Ffi: -■
i [ " M........
■ll" °:„... I . .
fMi-l C.lVtL-S [
N O lv[ ■' i; • j
l)'i MI’I.OYt". j_________^ ^________
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
AND
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION AND GENERAL WORKERS UNON OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA) - LOCAL 4504
FOR THE PERIOD JANUARY 1, 1993 - MARCH 31, 1995
00183(04)
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
AND
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION AND GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA) - LOCAL 4 504
INDEX
ARTICLE
PREAMBLE ....................
1	SECURITY OF EMPLOYMENT • •	•	•
2	REGULARITY OF WORK ..........
3	RECOGNITION AND EXCLUSIONS	•	■	■
4	MANAGEMENT.. ................ ■
5	CONTRACTING OUT ..............
6	UNION ACTIVITIES ............ ■
7	UNION SECURITY ..............
8	SENIORITY ...................
9	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME	•	•
10	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE .........
11	PAYMENT FOR STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
12	LEAVE OF ABSENCE ............
13	SICK LEAVE ..................
14	VACATIONS ...................
15	REPLACED WITH REVISED ARTICLE	2
16	GENERAL..	.................
17	NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT ....
18	SAFETY AND HEALTH ...........
19	CUSTOM AND CONDITION ...	.
20	SALARIES.......................
21	CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN	.	.
22	GROUP INSURANCE PLAN ........
23	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE ...........
24	JURY DUTY......................
25	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL ..........
26	SAFETY CLOTHING .............
PAGE
2
2
2
3
4
5
5
6 7
10
13
15
16 17 19 21 21 22 22 23 23 25 27
29
30
30
31
PREAMBLE
2
Whereas Devco and the Union agree that the purpose of this Collective Agreement is to promote and maintain a sound and harmonious relationship between the Corporation and it's employees covered by this Agreement and to set forth herein their rates of pay and other conditions of employment, as well as to provide the machinery for prompt settlement of grievances arising between the parties during the term of this agreement. In the event that settlement under this Agreement does not meet the minimum standards as provided in the Canada Labour Code, Part III, the Code will take precedence.
Therefore Devco and the Union make the following agreement:
ARTICLE 1 - SECURITY OF EMPLOYMENT
No employee who was on the books of Devco 1st of April 1968 will be removed from the books unless he/she is placed on the Pre-Retirement Leave Plan or offered reasonable alternative employment, subject to the following conditions.
The above undertaking in no way limits the right of Devco, because of its responsibility for the safe and efficient conduct of operations, to suspend or dismiss any employee for cause.
The above undertaking in no way qualifies the responsibility of Devco temporarily to reduce or suspend a particular operation or part of an operation if such action is necessary to the satisfactory conduct and development of the mining operation as a whole within the funds provided by the Parliament of Canada.
The above undertaking in no way qualifies the right of Devco to lay off employees if abnormal circumstances so require, but Devco will make every reasonable effort to ensure that a full forty hours' work in each week is available to all employees who comply with the rules of regular attendance described in the next clause.
ARTICLE 2 - REGULARITY OF WORK - Revised
2.01	Devco and the Union agree that conscientious and regular work is essential to the agreed objectives of maintaining employment at good wages, and both parties therefore recognize that absenteeism is a serious obstacle to their objectives.
3
2.02	Accordingly, Devco and the Union agree that it is a condition of continued employment that no employee will be absent from a scheduled shift, other than for reasons (such as sickness, compensable accident or welfare) already known to Devco, unless he/she gives the supervisor/department manager* s office notice of his/her intended absence, along with a reason satisfactory to management, at least two hours before the starting time of the scheduled shift.
2.03	An employee who has been absent, for any reason other than one where the precise period of the absence was arranged in advance, must ensure that the supervisor/department manager's office is informed of his/her intended return to work at least two hours before the starting time of the shift, and if such notice has not been given, he/she will be sent home.
2.04	Any man who fails to give notice of absence, or who fails to establish satisfactory reason for absence, will be disciplined as follows:
First Offence - After an absence without cause, a corrective interview will be held with the employee. This interview will be followed with a confirming letter to the employee.
second offence - After the second absence without cause, a further corrective interview will be conducted with the employee and followed up with a confirming letter to the employee.
Third Offence - After the third absence without cause, a further corrective interview will be conducted with the employee. The interview will be followed with a confirming letter to the employee. At this stage, the employee will also be suspended, with pay, for one full work shift. A further absence without cause will result in the dismissal of the employee.
It is clearly understood that, should an employee have a clear record for a twelve (12) month period between the first offence and second offence, or the second and third offence, or after the third offence, his/her record shall be considered clear.
ARTICLE 3 - RECOGNITION AND EXCLUSIONS - Revised
3:01 The Corporation recognizes the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation, and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada) as the sole collective bargaining agent for bargaining unit employees of the Corporation's Coal Division as defined in the Canada Labour Relations Board certificate issued on
4
3:02 Bargaining Unit Work
It is recognized that emergencies may arise when a nonbargaining unit person may be required to assist in the
O work normally performed by members of the bargaining , unit. It is understood, however, that no non-bargaining unit employee shall perform any work normally performed by employees within the bargaining unit, except in those non-routine circumstances where the alternative would mean serious loss, damage, or creation of a safety hazard.
Any abuse of this clause shall be taken up under the usual procedure for handling grievances.
The Corporation recognizes the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada) or its successors, as the sole bargaining agent for the employees as described in Article l, and agrees to meet with representatives of the Local Union for the purpose of carrying out the terms of this Agreement.
Should a new classification with the bargaining unit be created during the term of this Agreement, the Management and Executive of the Union shall decide on the rate and designation.
No employee covered by this Agreement shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written agreement which may conflict with the terms of this contract.
It is recognized that emergencies may arise when a nonBargaining unit person may be required to perform work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit. It is understood, however, that the day-to-day temporary replacements for shotfirers and mine examiners (UMW of A qualified to perform the work) shall continue as has been past practice, The Corporation agrees that when it is known in advance, the Corporation will recall to employment laid-off members of the bargaining unit qualified to do the work available to fill such vacancy.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT
4.01	The Union recognizes the right of the Corporation to operate and manage its own business. The Union further recognizes the right of the corporation to hire, promote, demote, transfer, assign, suspend or otherwise discipline any employee for just cause. Any employee who thinks he/she has been unjustly dealt with by the Corporation may consider he/she has a grievance and may have it dealt with in the manner herein after provided.
5
ARTICLE 5 - CONTRACTING OUT
5.01	Except in the following circumstances, the Corporation will not contract out work in respect of which the bargaining unit has been certified by the Canada Labour Relations Board:
(1)	When required, when professional or technical skills are not available from within the bargaining unit; or
(2)	In emergencies or otherwise where sufficient employees qualified to perform work are not available from among the active or laid-off employees who are members of the bargaining unit.
5.02	The Corporation will advise the Union representative involved in writing as far in advance as is practicable of its intention to contract out. Such advice will contain a description of the work to be contracted out, the reasons why, and if possible, the date the contract is to commence. If a request for a meeting from the aforementioned Union Representatives is made to discuss such contracting out, it will be arranged at a mutually acceptable time.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION ACTIVITIES
6.01 The Union and employees covered by this agreement shall not conduct Union activities during working hours except as in this Agreement expressly provided. Nor shall union meetings of any kind be held at any time on the premises of the Corporation without prior written consent of the Corporation. The Corporation will make available those bulletin boards located in its offices for the use of the Union, and it is agreed that the use by the Union of such bulletin boards shall be restricted to the posting thereon of such notices as shall have received the prior approval of the Employee Relations Department and such notices shall be restricted to notices of the following type:
(a)	Notices of Union meetings, recreational and social affairs.
(b)	Notices of Union elections, appointments and results of elections.
If the National Representative of the Union servicing this bargaining unit or his nominee wishes to contact one of the Union representatives during working hours concerning some urgent in-office problem relating to this Agreement, he shall make such request through the Employee Relations Department and, provided such meeting will not needlessly interfere with the operations, arrangements will be made for such Union
6
representative to confer in private at a Corporation Office. The Union will provide the Corporation with the names of the Department Stewards and of the Local Chairman and will also provide the names of any alternate in the event of substitution.
ARTICLE 7 - UNION SECURITY
_	7:01 Every employee who is a member of the Union at the
effective date of this Agreement, or who becomes a member of the Union during the life of the Agreement, shall continue to be a member in good standing of the Union during the life of the Agreement, provided he/she continues to be an eligible member and during the life of the Agreement shall have deducted from his/her wages all dues, levies, fines and assessments authorized by and in accordance with the Constitution of the Union.
7:02 Every employee who is not a member of the Union but who occupies a position within the bargaining unit shall have deducted from his/her wages a sum equivalent to Union dues in such amount as may from time to time be assessed °/	to their members according to the Union Constitution.
7:03 All new employees occupying positions within the bargaining unit shall have deducted from their wages, within 3 0 days of employment, a sum equivalent to Union dues in such amount as may from time to time be assessed to their members according to the Union Constitution.
7.-04 The Corporation shall remit weekly by cheque the total of the deductions to the Financial Secretary of the CAW,
Local 4504.	- Revised
7:05 The Corporation agrees to provide to the Secretary-Treasurer a monthly list showing the dues deducted by the Corporation from salaries paid to employees who are under the jurisdiction of the Local. Union dues shall be collected from employees transferred outside the bargaining unit temporarily. Collection of Union dues will cease should the employee become established in the position outside the bargaining unit and such transfer is confirmed by the Corporation to be permanent.
7:06 The Union shall indemnify and hold the Corporation harmless against any and all liability which may arise by reason of the checkoff by the Corporation of Union dues, levies, fines and assessments from employees' wages in accordance with this Agreement.
7
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
8:01 Definitions
(a
2	(b)
(c)
(d)
Seniority shall be defined as most recent date of employment with the Corporation.
11 Probat ionary Employee" means an employee on probation for the first six months from his/her most recent date of employment with- the- corporation.
"Permanent Employee" means an employee who occupies a position within the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement and who has satisfactorily completed his/her probationary period.
"Ability" shall include experience and skill on the job, aptitude and adaptability. - Revised
[e) "Group" means the employee(s) as identified in Appendix 'B' .
(f) "Redundant" means the elimination of a position. Employees affected as a result of redundancy will be considered as laid off and will be entitled to exercise their seniority under layoff and recall (.03 below).
8:02 Lay-Off and Recall
(a) The Corporation shall retain the right at all times to maintain an efficient work force. The Corporation will advise union representatives and the local Union Executive in advance of any layoffs and provide details of classifications involved.
When Management is aware in advance of a reduction in the workforce, employees so affected by the reduction shall be given a minimum of five (5) days notice of Payoff prior to the effective date of layoff, except in circumstances where the layoff is the result of a bump. - Previously L of U 17
(b) In the event of a lay-off of employees covered by this Agreement, the Corporation shall reduce the work force employed in the following manner:	Probationary employees will
be laid off first; then permanent employees.
.SHORT TERM LAYOFF - NEW
Bumping - In the event that notification of a layoff results in employees being able to bump, Management and the Union will meet within five (5) days to discuss the details and the employees involved. Employees with the seniority and ability must exercise their bumping rights in the manner outlined below.
GENERAL LAYOFF
(i)	It is understood employees who exercise their seniority in the bumping process also have the ability to perform the work. Ability is defined in .01 (d) above.
(ii) An employee (s) who is affected by a redundancy or a workforce reduction at a site shall be those employees with the least Corporation seniority.
(iii)	An employee(s) so affected shall bump a junior employee in the same classification at that site or any other site, or a junior bargaining unit employee at his/her own site in the same group, Group is defined in .01	(e)
above.
(iv)	An employee laid off at a site shall bump a junior employee in his/her group at another site, or a junior bargaining unit employee at his/her own site.
'	(v) The most junior employee bumped from a site shall bump a
junior employee in the bargaining unit.
- (e) Recall to work following a lay-off shall be done in order of seniority provided the employees recalled are able to perform satisfactorily the work to be done.
8:03 LOSS OF EMPLOYMENT STATUS
Except as otherwise provided in this agreement, an employee's employment with the Corporation shall be terminated upon any one of the following:-
(a) He/she is dismissed for just cause and such dismissal is not reversed through the grievance procedure.
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
8.04
8 :05
(a)
(b)
(o)
9
He/she resigns in writing and does not withdraw the resignation within five working days.	The Union
representative shall be made aware of such resignations as they are submitted. - new
He/she retires or is retired.
If any employee if off work as a result of lay-off for 24 months if his/her employment service is less than 24 months. In the event the employee's service is between 24 months and 60 months, the employee will not lose seniority until after a period of lay-off corresponding to the length of the employee's service to a maximum of 60 months.
He/she fails to return to work within fifteen (15) calendar days following a layoff and after being notified by registered mail to do so. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the employer informed of his/her current address. An employee recalled for work shall not lose his/her recall rights for refusal to return to such work for a bonafide reason.
- NEW
SENIORITY LIST - NEW
The Corporation shall provide seniority lists showing the check number, name, employee's service date, job classification, and work location. Such lists will be posted annually and not later than January 31st.
TRANSFERS
The following terms will govern the transfer of employees into or out of the bargaining unit.
No employee will be promoted to a position outside the bargaining unit without his/her consent.
In the event an employee is transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit, he/she shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit within one year of the appointment.
In the event an employee is working at a work site other than his/her former location and in the event that work again become available at his/her former location, and before junior employees are assigned to the former location, those employees with seniority would have the right to return to the former location. Such option must be exercised within five (5) working days of the date the offer is made. - Revised
10
(d) In an employee declines an opportunity to return to his/her former location, then such position will be filled by job posting.
NOTE:	Bargaining unit positions at new Corporation sites
shall be posted in accordance with Article 29 -Job Postings,
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
9:01 Hours of Work
The normal work week shall be forty (40) hours consisting of five (5) days per week eight (8) hours per day or seven (7) hours per day, thirty five (35) hours per week ■ in the respective categories where such hours now exist. (see listing of categories attached)
9:02 Rostering
A roster will be posted at each operational unit which will specify the five normal shifts that each employee will work and which may be any five shifts in a week of seven days. The roster will be so updated as to normally give each employee a week's notice of his/her specific shift roster for the following weeks and will reflect the additional work days required so as to provide an average of 22 days per month.
9:03 Paragraph 9:02 provides for the setting up of rosters for each employee to be allotted five shifts within seven days. For each of those shifts between 7 a.m. on Saturday and 7 a.m. on Monday for which an employee is rostered and which he works the full eight hours, he will receive a premium of $10.00 over and above his normal datal rate. This premium will not be taken into account in computing his/her overtime payment if he/she works more than eight hours in the weekend shift and it will not apply if the weekend shift is a shift in excess of his/her five normal shifts for that week.
9:04 Nothing herein shall be read or construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day, week or month.
9:05	(a) Overtime at the rate of time and one-half the
employee's regular rate will be applicable after seven (7) hours of work per day, thirty-five (35) hours of work per week, or eight (8) hours of work per day, forty (40) hours of work per week in the respective categories where such hours now exist. Premium hours accumulated on a daily basis shall not be used
11
for the purpose of calculating premium hours on a weekly basis.
Employees shall be paid at double time the regular classification rate for all time worked on a paid statutory holiday. This double time payment is wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his/her remaining regular rostered shifts during the week in which the holiday occurs.
Where the employee fails to work all of his/her remaining regular rostered shifts during the week in which the holiday occurs as a result of a mechanical or electrical failure which renders the site idle, the employee so affected will qualify for the double time payment for all time worked on the statutory holiday.
Employees will be paid at double time the regular classification rate for all time worked on a non-rostered Sunday shift. This double time payment is wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his/her remaining regular rostered shifts during the week in which the non-rostered Sunday shift occurs.
9.06 Employees will be rostered five (5) days in a seven (7) day period. Where, after an employee has been given a weekly roster and is required at the request of the Corporation to change his/her rostered work days in a current week, overtime rates of pay will be paid for the non-rostered day. Exceptions to this may occur when the roster change must be made over which the Corporation has no control, such as ship arrivals, requests for services from sources outside the Corporation, or abnormal circumstances.
9:07 Shift Cancellation
An employee who, while at home, is requested by Management and agrees to work a non-rostered shift and then cancelled before the commencement time of the non-rostered shift shall be paid the sum of $15.00 for such cancellation.
9.08 (a)
\
Employees called back to work on irregular hours other than immediately following or immediately prior to their regularly rostered shift will be credited with four (4) hours actually worked. For the purpose of this clause, the expression "immediately following" an employee’s regularly rostered shift means that the employee has not left the premises, and the expression "immediately prior"
12
to an employee's regularly rostered shift means less than two (2) hours before the employee's shift. - Revised
(b) Employees who are called back to work within the meaning of Clause (a) of this Article and who subsequently work more than four (4) hours and not more than eight (8) hours will be credited with eight (8) hours actually worked. Premium overtime provision applies in accordance with the Canada Labour Code. - Revised
It is agreed that the Corporation will not make use of Articles 9.01 and 9.05 of this Agreement to defeat the purpose of this Article.
9.09 Overtime Meals
A member of the bargaining unit required to work more than two hours of overtime as an extension to his/her shift will be, when and where practicable, provided with a lunch, the cost of which shall be determined by Corporation Policy. In the event it is impractical to provide a meal to an employee so qualified (such as restaurant closing hours during back shift, etc.), then the employee will be provided with a meal chit to the value of $7.50.	( Replaces Letter of Understanding §2)
9.10 Banking of Overtime -
NEW
Banking of overtime should be permitted on the following basis:
i) Overtime of less than seven hours or eight hours cannot be banked.
The maximum amount of overtime that an employee can bank in a calendar year is seventy (70) or eighty (80) hours.
iii)	Once an employee has utilized thirty-five (35) hours or forty (40) hours (depending on the employees hours of work) of banked overtime in a calendar year, the employee will not be entitled to make use of any additional banked overtime if his/her absentee rate for the year, as of the date time off is requested, exceeds ten percent (10%) . Time off on Union business will not be used when determining the percentage.
iv)	Requests to use banked overtime must be made one (1) week in advance of the time to be taken off and are subject to approval by the site head or designate.
v)	Time off will only be granted where operational requirements permit, however, every reasonable effort will be made to grant the request.
13
vi)	Banked overtime which is accumulated but not used in a calendar year will be paid out by the Corporation not later than January 15th of the following year.
ARTICLE 10 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
No grievance shall be considered which usurps the functions of Management provided that the question of whether or not the subject matter of the grievance is arbitrable may itself by carried through the grievance procedure as part of the grievance and determined accordingly.
The Corporation may decline to consider any grievance the alleged circumstances of which originated or occurred more the five (5) working days prior to its presentation. No grievance will be considered or processed by the Corporation during any stoppage of work which is in violation of this agreement.
It is understood and agreed that a probationary employee shall be entitled to use the grievance procedure, but shall not be entitled to grieve with respect to his/her probationary separation except that after the first three months of his/her probationary period the employee may request Union representation for the purpose of presenting the facts in the event that he/she feels he/she has been unfairly dismissed. The grievance procedure shall apply equally to a grievance lodged by an employee or group of employees and with the necessary changes commencing at Stage 3 apply to any grievance lodged by the Corporation.
Any employee having a grievance Will attempt to settle it with his immediate Supervisor.
Step 1 When an employee has a grievance, the grievance may within five (5) days of the alleged violation be filed in writing on the Corporation's standard grievance form with his/her immediate supervisor who shall provide an answer in writing within three (3) days from receipt of the alleged grievance.
stop 2 If the immediate supervisor does not resolve a grievance to the satisfaction of the aggrieved employee, the employee or his/her steward may lodge an appeal in writing on the grievance form with the next level of Management or his/her representative within three working days of the immediate Supervisor' s decision at Step l. The decision of the second level Manager shall be in writing on the grievance form and shall be rendered within five regular working days of the delivery of the appeal to him/her.
14
fftep 3 Failing settlement at Step 2, the grievance may be appealed by the Local Chairman of the Grievance committee to the Manager/General Manager or his/her nominee within five working days of delivery of the decision at Step 2.
At this step, the Manager/General Manager or his/her nominee, and a representative of the Employee Relations Department shall meet and discuss the grievance with the Local Chairman or his/her nominee and other representatives of the Union as the Local Chairman shall designate, not to exceed two employee members of the bargaining unit together with a national representative of the Union, or his/her nominee, if he/she desires to attend.
The Manager/General Manager will act as Chairman of this Step 3 meeting. The two employee members of the bargaining unit may be exceeded from time to time when requested by the Union and the circumstances of the particular grievance require additional representation.	The decision of the
Corporation at this step shall be rendered within ten (10) calendar days of the delivery of the appeal to the Manager/General Manager.
Failing settlement of the grievance at Step 3, the matter may then be referred to arbitration within fifteen (15) days of the decision at Step 3 .
NOTE :	Distribution of Replies:
Step 1 - Grievor and Local Chairman Step 2 - Grievor and Local Chairman Step 3 - National Representative and Local Chairman
ARBITRATION
(A) Notice in writing may be given by one party to the other after the foregoing designed procedures have been exhausted requiring the unresolved grievance to be submitted to arbitration. In such cases, a sole arbitrator shall be appointed by the parties within fifteen (15) days following the delivery of written notice calling for arbitration.
Should the parties be unable to agree on the selection of an arbitrator, the Federal Minister of Labour will be requested to make the appointment.
The arbitrator shall be paid jointly by management and union.
15
(B) In all cases, the decision shall be final and binding upon both parties, but in no case shall the decision alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement or make any other decision inconsistent with specific terms of this Agreement.
The arbitrator shall have the authority, in cases where its decision is that the grievor was improperly discharged or suspended, to order this reinstatement.
ARTICLE 11 - PAYMENT FOR STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Holiday Entitlement:
11.01 Paid Holidays shall be granted as follows:
^ O
1.	New Year's Day	6.	Labour Day
2 .	Good Friday	7 .	Thanksgiving Day
3 .	Victoria Day	8 .	Remembrance Day
4 .	Miners' Memorial	Day 9.	Christmas Day
5 .	Canada Day	10.	Boxing Day
11. Floating Holiday
11.02(a) If the Government of Canada designates Heritage Day or such other day as a General Holiday, the day so designated by the Government shall be substituted for the Floating Holiday. The Floating Holiday will be celebrated under the following conditions:
(b) The employee must make application to Management at least two weeks in advance of the designated day.
Eligibility for payment for 'additional holiday 1 shall be determined in the same manner as at present for statutory holidays, counting back from the first day of the Christmas vacation in the previous calendar year.
(d) Eligible employees who do not use the Floating Holiday entitlement prior to December 1st in the year to which entitled, will have payment included in the Christmas week pay.
11.03	When any of the above holidays fall on Sunday or Saturday, the day observed by the Federal Government in respect of its employees as the holiday shall be recognized. If in the Province of Nova Scotia, a holiday is more generally recognized than any one of the holidays specified above, the signatories hereto will substitute such holidays.
11.04 If a statutory holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the employee is entitled to an additional day's pay provided he/she was entitled to pay for such holiday. The additional day may be taken as either -
16
1.	an extra day's pay; or
2.	an extra vacation pay; or
3.	a floating holiday
Such day is to be taken at a date mutually agreed to between the employee and management.
11.05	The service qualification for payment of any of the holidays specified above is as follows:
(a)	The employee must have been in the active employ of the Corporation for at least thirty (30) calendar days.
(b)	The employee must have been entitled to wages for at least five (5) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday concerned.
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12:01An employee may be allowed up to sixty (60) calendar days leave of absence without pay for personal reasons if he/she r	requests it from the Corporation in writing, and the
Corporation believes the leave is for good reason, and does not unduly interfere with operations, except in emergency situations when leave of absence will be granted regardless.
12:02 Employees who have been selected by the Union to attend Union conventions or conferences will be granted a temporary leave of absence without pay for this purpose. Applications for such temporary leave of absence must be made in writing to the Director of Employee Relations at least two (2) weeks in advance of the temporary leave of absence.
12:03 Employees elected or appointed to a full-time Union position and who maintains a Union/Management relationship with the Corporation will be granted a leave of absence without pay. Applications for such a leave of absence must be made in writing to the Director of Employee Relations at least one (1) month in advance of the starting date of the leave of absence. For all purposes, other than the Corporation' s NonContributory Pension Plan, employees who return to the Corporation after a leave of absence under this paragraph will be deemed to have been employed by the Corporation for the period of the absence when calculating that employee 1s length of service. Upon return to the Corporation from leave of absence, employees will be placed in a position of the most junior employee of which, in the opinion of the Corporation, he/she is capable of performing.
17
13:01	(A) In the event of an employee being absent from work as a
result of personal disability due to sickness or accident, such employee, while in the employ of the Corporation, shall continue to receive his/her normal rate of pay exclusive of premium pay, shift premium, or any special allowance to the extent that he/she is entitled according to the applicable provisions of this Collective Agreement and this Article.
(B) Salaries paid under the provision of this article shall be subject to normal statutory deductions and further reduced by the amounts of any Worker's Compensation payments that may be made to an employee with respect to the period in which such salary is drawn. For each day off work and receiving Workers’ Compensation payments, four-tenth's a day sick credit will be deducted from the employee's credits. Under no circumstances does an employee on Compensation have his/her payments made up to his/her salary for more than 66 calendar days during a calendar year.
1(C) No employee will have his/her salary adjusted for more than 66 days in a calendar year.
(D)	In order to qualify for payment under this article, employees who must absent themselves from work due to sickness or personal disability, must notify their department supervisor of their intended absence and the reason for the absence. Immediately upon return to work after such disability, the employee must provide the department supervisor with a certificate from a licensed physician indicating the employee was unable to perform his/her regular duties, the treatment received, and dates treatment received. Written proof of treatment from the first day of layoff where payment is to be made for layoff is required.
(E)	Salary continuation is not applicable to self-inflicted illness or injury.	Any employee who absents
himself/herself from work due to sickness of accident may be required to submit to an examination by a doctor appointed by the Corporation. Salary continuation will not be paid beyond the effective date of lay-off, provided the employee is advised of lay-off prior to the illness or accident occurring.
(F)	To qualify for sick leave payment in a particular calendar year, the employee must have worked a minimum of one (1)* rostered day during the calendar year. An employee laying-off work through sickness or injury after
18
having worked the last rostered shift prior to Christmas vacation may receive the unused portion of sick leave left from the previous year.
♦Formerly five (5) rostered days
(G)	Any employee who is off work due to sickness or personal disability at the beginning of a calendar year, and such absence from work is a continuation from the previous calendar year, then the employee will be entitled to continue to use that portion of unused sick credits from the previous calendar year.
(H) An employee who, while on his/her annual vacation, becomes hospitalized, shall have the right to be placed on sick leave and the actual days spent in hospital shall be counted as sick days and not vacation days.
(I)	It is the intention of this plan to assist employees with their expenses while sick or injured.
(J) S ick leave shall not be paid concurrently with Unemployment Insurance Commission benefits.
(K)	On the first disability, payment shall start on the first day and a waiting period shall not be required. On the second disability, payment shall start on the second day of the illness. There shall be a one-day waiting period. On the third disability, payment shall start on the third day of the illness. There shall be a two-day waiting period. On the fourth disability, payment shall start on the fourth day of the illness. There shall be a three-day waiting period. The three-day waiting period shall be in effect on all succeeding disabilities.
(L)	An employee who is absent from a regular rostered shift(s) and has sick day (s) credit will be paid sick day benefits from the first day of disability if hospitalized within the waiting period(s) as outlined in Article 13 (K) . For the purpose of this clause, hospitalized means that the employee has actually been admitted as a regular patient in the hospital and the Nova Scotia Health Services Commission recognizes same by paying a full day's hospital stay on his/her behalf.
(M)	An employee required through illness to leave work after having completed a half-shift’s work shall not have the absence considered a disability under this article, provided the number of absences occurring through such illness in any one calendar year does not exceed two.
19
13 :02
Sick Leave Credits - Incumbent Employees
Employees who have been members will be granted sick credits on
Service Requirement
Under 12 mdnths of	_
continuous service
Over 12 months of continuous -
service but under 60 months
of continuous service
Over 60 months of continuous -
service but under 180 months
of continuous service
Over 180 months of continuous -
service
of the bargaining unit the following basis:
1 day for each month of service 22 days during a calendar year
44 days during a calendar year
66 days during a calendar year
13:03	Sick Leave - New Employee to the Bargaining Unit
1(a) Effective January 1, 1982, an employee in a position with the bargaining unit for six (6) months continuously from his/her most recent hire shall accumulate and be granted sick leave not exceeding a total of 66 days from his regular work schedule through bona fide illness or noncompensable injury.
(b) Such leave shall accumulate as a privilege at the rate of 1	1/4 working days per calendar month, provided the
employee has worked a minimum of 20 regularly scheduled days in each calendar month to a maximum accumulation of 66 days, provided such sick leave shall be paid at the employee's regular rate of pay for one scheduled day at straight time.
ARTICLE 14 ~ VACATIONS
14:01	In each calendar year, paid vacation shall be earned by
all employees covered by this agreement on the following basis:	1 2/3 days for each 21 days worked to a maximum
of 20 days in any calendar year. Vacation credits are earned and accumulated in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which they are taken.
14 :02 Vacations will be scheduled to least interfere with operations and will, insofar as possible, conform with the general periods of vacation scheduled by the corporation for its employees in mining and allied departments. It is understood that, insofar as is practicable, the Corporation will schedule the fourth week of vacation, for employees qualified to receive same, during the period between Christmas Day and the first day of the New Year.
20
14 :03	Vacations must be taken in the calendar year they fall
due and wages/salaries shall not be paid in lieu of vacations except under the special circumstances outlined in Clause M: 041 below. If, however, employees are requested by management to work vacation period(s) and not enough time remains in the calendar year for the employee to take his/her earned vacation in that year, the vacation days not taken shall be put over to the calendar year immediately following and taken at a time mutually convenient to the employee and management.
14:04	Any employee leaving the services of the Corporation
after working a full year since his/her last vacation period will be given twenty days off with pay or four weeks salary as the Corporation may decide. Any employee leaving the Corporation's service after working less than a full year since his/her last vacation period will, providing he/she is not dismissed for cause or leaves the service of his/her own accord and for reasons beyond his/her control, be given either 1 2/3 days off with pay or 1 2/3 days salary for each twenty-one (21) days worked since his/her last vacation period, as the Corporation may decide.
14:05	Vacation pay will be a the employee's current rate of pay
when he/she takes his vacation. If an employee works a part year on datal pay and reverts to a salary, he/she will draw as his/her vacation pay the datal rate or the salary rate whichever is greater.
Vacation Pay Bonus Applicable to Shotfirers/Mine Examiners Only
14:06(a)

I
After one (1) year’s continuous service with the Corporation, an employee who has earned twenty (20)days' vacation pay will, in addition, be paid a lump sum vacation bonus equivalent to one day's pay at his/her current rate.
(b) After five (5) years’ continuous service with the Corporation, an employee who has earned twenty (20) days’ vacation pay will, in addition, be paid a lump sum vacation bonus equivalent to 2.5 days' pay at his/her current rate.
(c)	After ten (10) years' continuous service with the Corporation, an employee who has earned twenty (20) days’ vacation pay, will, in addition, be paid a lump sum vacation bonus equivalent to 3.5 days' pay at his/her current rate.
21
(d)	After fifteen (15) years’ continuous service with the Corporation, an employee who has earned twenty (20) days’ vacation pay will, in addition, be paid a lump sum vacation bonus equivalent to 4.5 days' pay at his/her ■	current rate.
'	(e) After twenty (20) years’ continuous service with the
Corporation, an employee who has earned twenty (20) days' vacation pay will, in addition, be paid a lump sum vacation bonus equivalent to 5 days' pay at his/her current rate.
14:07	For purposes of calculating vacation pay, days worked
shall mean paid vacation days, paid bereavement leave, paid jury duty, paid statutory holidays, authorized absences for union business, except those granted under Article 12.03, absences from work due to on-the-job injury (for which Workers' Compensation is paid), or an illness or accident for which benefits are received or would have been received (penalty days) under Article 13 of this agreement. In no case shall an employee receive credit for more than a total of sixty-six (66) days in any calendar year in respect of a combination of the two last-named benefits. Where an employee does not actually work in any calendar year, the aforementioned sixty-six (66) days shall not be applicable.
ARTICLE 15 - Replaced with revised Article 2
ARTICLE 16 - GENERAL
16:01 (a) The Corporation shall continue a pay system whereby employee weekly wages will be deposited to an account at the banking institution of the employee's choice. - NEW
(b) A statement of the employee's weekly earnings and deductions will be provided to the employee at the work site.
16:02
16:03
16:04
The Corporation agrees to deduct property taxes when so authorized by the employee.
The Corporation agrees that deductions will be made for Credit Union when so authorized in writing by the employee.
PRICE OF COAL TO EMPLOYEES
Employees covered by this collective agreement who are eligible to purchase coal at reduced rates will be governed by the terms negotiated between the Corporation and the major bargaining unit (UMWofA) .
22
For the purpose of this article, eligible employees shall include all employees covered by this collective agreement who retire from the service of the Corporation.
16:05	If an employee is temporarily transferred for short
periods of time and for the benefit of the Corporation and travel by personal auto is required, applicable mileage will be paid. If the transfer is for the benefit of the employee or is permanent, then mileage will not be paid.
16:06	In the event of a temporary transfer, requested by the
Corporation, the employee involved will be paid the higher of the two rates.
ARTICLE 17 - NO STRIKE - NO LOCK-OUT
The Union shall not strike or authorize a strike of any of the employees covered by this agreement or authorize any other interference or curtailment of operations by such employees contrary to law during the term of this agreement.
The Corporation shall not lock-out or sanction a lock-out of any employee covered by this agreement contrary to law during the duration of the agreement.
No employee will leave his/her workplace until it is in a protected condition.
ARTICLE 18 ~ SAFETY AND HEALTH
(1)	It is mutually agreed that both Management and the Union will co-operate to the fullest possible extent toward the prevention of accidents and the promotion of safety first and health.
(2)	The Corporation agrees to make necessary provisions for the safest possible working conditions in the mines, in strict accordance with directives as outlined in the Canada Labour Code, Coal Mines (C.B.D.C.) Safety Regulations.
(3)	The Corporation agrees to provide to the employees safety clothing at cost.
(4)	Employee Assistance Program
Without detracting from the existing rights and obligations of the parties recognized in other provisions of this Agreement, the Corporation and the Union agree to co-operate in
" encouraging employees who may become afflicted with alcoholism or drugs to undergo a co-ordinated program directed to the objective of their rehabilitation.
23
ART ICLE—19- - CUSTOM AND CONDITION
19:01	It is mutually understood that agreed past customs and
conditions will only be changed after discussion and agreement between the parties.
ARTICLE 20 - 8RLRRIES
A:
20:01
20:02
8H0TFIRERS AND MI!
Following are the examiners:-
January 1, 1989
January 1, 1990 January 1, 1991 January 1, 1992
fE EXAMINERS ONLY:
rates of pay for
Per Hour 15.3622
15.9766 16.6157 17.4465
shotfirers and mine
Increase Nil (signing bonus in lieu)
4%
4%
5%
The Corporation agrees that salary employees under this agreement employed as part of a crew to perform a well defined task during a shift will be permitted to leave the mine with the crew when the whole task has been completed to the satisfaction of the supervisor and the supervisor has authorized the men to leave the mine. This does not apply to individual employees who will be disciplined if they leave the mine singly before the end of the shift.
20:03
b:
20: 04 20:05
20:06
TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT TO THE POSITION OF SUPERVISOR
The shotfirer and examiner will receive the rate of the supervisor replaced. Working conditions which apply to supervisors will apply to the substituting examiner or shotfirer when serving in the above-mentioned capacity and receiving the salary rate of the position.
CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL ONLY:
All positions subject to this agreement have been evaluated and graded as defined in Appendix attached hereto, and such grading shall apply for purposes of this agreement.
New or changed positions shall be evaluated and graded by the Corporation to conform with the positions covered in Appendix "A" and such determination shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure.
A standard monthly salary rate shall be applied to each position grade and such rates shall become the standard monthly salary scale.
24
20:01	The Standard Monthly Salary Scale of rates shall apply to
all employees who are qualified in their respective position grades and the monthly salary rates for each position grade shall be the established standard rate.
20:08	In addition to the standard monthly scale of rates, a
schedule of progression rates is established in accordance with the following:
(a) A starting rate for each position grade at a level ten percent (10%) below the standard rate for the position. (b) A first progression rate for each position grade, at a level five percent (5%) below the standard rate for the position.
20: 09	The established progressional rate defined in 20:08 shall
apply to the position in the respective grades as follows:
(a)	The starting rate shall apply commencing on the date an employee is assigned to such grade and continue for a period of six months.
■j-,) Then the first progression rate shall apply commencing as of the beginning of the month closest to the date when such employee completed such training period and continue for a period of six months.
Then the standard rate of the job shall apply commencing at the beginning of the month closest to the date when such employee shall have completed the final progression period, provided however, in the case of (a) and (b) above, that the employee has proved satisfactory to the management at the time such progression periods are completed, and such determination shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
20:10	Should an employee have ability beyond that required in
any progression period, the Corporation, at its sole discretion, may waive in whole or in part the established progression periods defined in 20:08 and 20:09 above.
20:11	An employee who has been incumbent at a position grade
for more than two years and demoted to another position of a lower grade for reasons other than disciplinary action or incompetence, shall receive the standard rate of the position to which demoted in the following stages:
_ If the demotion to a lower grade is two or more position grades he/she shall be reduced, six months after the date of demotion, to the standard of the range of one position grade above the position he/she shall occupy. He/she shall then be reduced to the standard of the range of the
25
position which he/she shall occupy six months after the date of the previous decrease.
_ If the demotion to a lower grade is one position grade, his/her salary will be reduced in six months from the date of demotion to the standard of the range to which demoted. It is understood that such demoted employees whose salaries are above the standard of their position grades after reflecting decreases as herein provided, will have their salaries frozen until such time as the standard salary exceeds the frozen salary.
20.12	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT
When employees covered by the bargaining unit are appointed by management to temporarily replace unionized supervisory personnel, the daily rate of pay shall be equal to the daily rate of pay of the supervisory position which they are temporarily filling. When replacing supervisory confidential personnel, the daily rate of pay shall be fifteen percent (15%) more than the current daily rate of the employee so temporarily assigned. The employee shall also be paid at the appropriate overtime rate for all overtime shifts and overtime hours worked in excess of the normal work day hours associated with the supervisory position.
ARTICLE-21 .-^-.CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN ELIGIBILITY:
Membership in the Plan shall be mandatory as a condition of employment for all employees who are new to the bargaining unit on or after January 1, 1983.
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION SUMMARY OF CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN
Effective Date:	April 1, 1974
Eligibility:
Optional to full time employees of the Corporation who commenced employment prior to January l, 1983. Mandatory as a condition of employment for all new employees to the bargaining unit on or after January 1, 1983.
Normal Retirement	Age 65
Employee Contributions
5% of earnings, (in addition to Canada Pension Plan contributions).
26
Corporation Contributions
The Corporation shall make contributions to the Trustee each year as recommended by the Actuary to meet the cost of benefits under the Plan and any additional contributions as may be required to meet such tests and standards of solvency as may be prescribed from time to time by regulations adopted under the Pension Benefits Standards Act, 1985. All the Corporation's Contributions shall be paid to the Trustee not less frequently than quarterly and not later than thirty (30) days after the end of the period in respect of which the instalment is made.
Pension at Retirement:
(a)	Future Service
In addition to the Canada Pension Plan, 2% of career earnings while a participant of the Plan, adjusted for cost-of-living increases.
(b)	Past Service
Employees in the Union who retire from the Corporation on their normal or early retirement date and are entitled to pension under the new Contributory Plan maintained by the Corporation, shall receive under the Non-Contributory Plan a basic pension benefit, if any, based on years of continuous service prior to joining the Contributory Pension Plan.
The basic pension benefit is equal to four dollars per month for each year of continuous service up to a maximum of 2 5 years, adjusted for cost-of-living* increases. However, no employee having less than 10 years of continuous service shall be entitled to the Compassionate Disability Pension benefit under the Non-contributory Plan.
Dependents Benefit:
(a)	Before Earliest Retirement Age:
5 years payment of earned pension with cost-of-living* increases (or employee contributions with interest if greater).	t
(b)	After Earliest Retirement Age:
Balance of 5 years payment of pension with cost-of-living increases. If dependent is spouse, 60% of earned pension for life.
27
■Xofal. -and Permanent Pi sabi 1 i tv Waiver
A participant who becomes disabled may apply to the Pension Board for a waiver of contributions during the period of disability.
Termination of Service
(a) Cash Refund
If less than 10 years in the Plan, and under age 45, return of employee contributions with interest on contributions made before January 1, 1987.
(b) Vesting
Full vesting will apply after 10 years of service and attainment of age 45 on contributions before January 1, 1987, and after two years in plan on contributions on or after January 1,	198 7 .
Any employee who does not elect to join the Contributory Plan will have a pension at retirement under the Non-contributory Plan. The basic benefit under the Non-Contributory Plan is equal to four dollars per month for each year of continuous service up to a maximum of 25 years.
'ft
___Cost-Of-Living Increases
The pension at retirement and/or the dependant benefit shall be subject to cost-of-living increases equivalent in rate to the rate of increases provided from time to time by way of annual adjustments in retirement under the Canada Pension Plan.
The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Corporation's pension plans. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the content of the registered plan texts.
n nmmT o
21 - GROUP INSURANCE P] AN
GROUP INSURANCE - NEW
Employees will be able to retain their group coverage during strikes and lockouts, provided the Union pays the entire premium for same in accordance with the established payment structure.
ii) The Corporation agrees to review its group coverage, including the LTD plan, and to make such changes as may be required, if any, to bring same into conformity with current laws regarding pregnancy and maternity leave.
28
iii) The LTD plan should be amended to provide coverage for illness due to alcoholism.
0
Jan 1, 1990 Jan 1, 1991 Jan 1/92
Group Life Insurance	21,000
Acc. Death & Dismemberment	21,000
Retired Life Insurance(Employee) 3,000 Dependant Life Insurance - Wife 2,500 V- 1	- Child 1,250
Hospital
Hospital
Ambulance
Private Room Accommodation Out-Patient Charges $25.00 $40.00 per Insurance Year
22.500
22.500
3.500
2.500 1,250
23
23
4
2
1
, 500
, 500 , 000 , 500
,250
Eye Care ^w-}g, January 1, 1990 (Frames and lenses once every two '■ years to maximum of $125.00) f) January 1, 1991 increase to $150.00
Prescription Drugs:
The maximum per person in any insurance year for analgesics, ) hypnotics, sedatives, and tranquilizers shall be increased to $300.00.	If, however, due to extenuating medical
circumstances, this amount is insufficient, the carrier will, on application, extend the maximum amount.
Diabetic and Colostomy Supplies:
Eligible employees will receive diabetic and colostomy supplies under the terms of the Group Insurance Policy in effect on the date of ratification.
, Monthly Income Insurance:
|o ;
60% of insured earnings at date of disability reduced by /O' '	income from other sources. Maximummonthly payment is $1,500.
Dental Care:
Employees will be provided a Corporation paid basic dental care plan. This coverage includes spouse and dependant children. The cost of the dental plan to the employer will not exceed $13.00 per month per eligible employee. The amount covered by the Corporation dental plan, after the normal deductible, will match dentists1 fee in the current year as follows:	January 1, 1990 - $700. per year; January 1, 1991, -
$800. per year: January 1, 1992 -$900 per year.
29
The cost of the Insurance and Welfare Benefits Plan (excluding Dental Care Flan) will continue on a shared 60% -4 0% employer/employee basis.
Spouses of deceased employees may have the option to continue participation in the Employee Group Insurance Plan (excluding LTD) on the basis that the spouse pays the full 100% premium.
The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Group Insurance Plan. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the content of the insurance contract between Great West Life Assurance Company and the Cape Breton Development Corporation.
ARTICLE 23 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE - Revised
Any employee who has completed three (3) consecutive months of continuous employment shall be entitled to his/her bereavement leave with pay at his/her regular rate of wages exclusive of overtime.
In the event of the death of a spouse or a child, an employee shall be entitled to four (4) rostered days bereavement leave on any of his/her regularly rostered shifts, exclusive of overtime, that occur immediately following the death.
In the event of the death of a parent, step-parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or any relative permanently residing in the employee's household or with whom the employee resides, the employee shall be entitled to three (3) rostered days bereavement leave on any of his/her regularly rostered shifts that occur immediately following the death.
In the event an employee is required to cease work during one of his/her rostered shifts due to bereavement in the family, he/she will not be docked for the unworked portion of that shift and that day will not be counted as a bereavement day.
At the discretion of the Corporation, leave with pay may be granted to employees in exceptional or emergency circumstances preventing them from reporting for or remaining on duty.
It is understood that this clause will not be applicable to employees who so qualify and are off work due to sickness, compensable accident, or without pay.
23.01
23.02
23.03
o
23.04
23.05
23.06
30
ARTICLE 24 - JURY DUTY
Leave of Absence with pay shall be given to every employee other than an employee on leave of absence without pay, or under suspension, who is required to serve on a jury, provided that the employee turns over to the Corporation all sums of ;	money received as a result of his/her jury duty. Such
employee will be expected at all times to keep the Corporation advised as to the dates and times that he/she is required to serve in such jury duty.
ARTICLE 25 - SHIFT DIFFERENTIALS
For the purpose of this clause, the following shall apply:
(a) Da v Shift Work shall be defined as work performed by employees working their regularly scheduled shift between the following hours :
1.	6	a.m.	to	2	p.m.
2.	7	a;m.	t o	3	p.m.
3.	8	a.m.	to	4	p.m.
4.	8:30 a.m.	to 4:30 p.m.
(b) Night Shift Work shall be defined as work performed by employees working their regularly scheduled shift between the following hours:
1.	11a.m. t o 7 p.m.
2.	3 p.m. t o 11 p.m.
3.	4 p.m. to 12 p.m.
4.	4:30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m.
(c)	Back S hi ft Work shall be defined as work performed by employees working their regularly scheduled shift between the following hours:
1.	9 p.m. to 5 a.m.
2.	11p.m. to 7 a.m.
3.	12 a.m. to 8 a.m.
4.	12:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m.
(d)	Shift differentials shall be paid at the rate of $.1750 per hour worked on night shift and $.35 per hour worked on back s h i ft.
(e)	Shift differentials will not be paid to day shift workers who are scheduled on the normal day shift, but will, exce pt otherwise provided in (f) below, be paid to them for work performed on other than the normal day shift hours worked after the termination of their respective shift in accordance with paragraph (d) above.
31
Differentials shall not apply to:
1.	Day or shift workers on overtime work.
2.	In the calculation of statutory holiday and annual vacation pay.
3.	Pay for hours not actually worked.
4 . Overtime shall not be calculated on shift
differentials.
All shift starting times are subject to change upon prior notice.
Underground Differential
An "underground" differential of $3.00 per eight (8) hour day will be paid to underground employees.
Reporting Form Adjustment - Applicable to Shotfirers & Mine Examiners Only.
Effective April l, 1980 - .05 cents per hour.
Effective September 1, 1980 - the current rate of .05 cents per hour shall be increased to .115 cents per hour.
NOTE:	In order to gualify for payment under this provision the
Reporting Form must be satisfactorily completed each shift.
ARTICLE 26 - SAFETY CLOTHING - Revised
26.1	As an added safety feature in the collieries and related departments, employees will be issued with coveralls free of charge - three pairs a year to underground employees, and two pairs a year to surface employees. Of the two pairs of coveralls issued to surface employees, the employee shall have the option of receiving two unlined pairs or one lined and one unlined pair.
26.2	The Corporation agrees to provide yearly to each employee: -
i)	two pairs of rubber boots, or:
ii)	two pairs of low-cut leather boots, or;
iii)	one pair of each, at the option of the employee. Boots which are determined to be defective by the manufacturer will be replaced at no cost to the employee.
26.3	The Corporation will also, during this same period, issue free of charge to each employee, two (2) pairs of leather work gloves of the kind normally stocked in its warehouse.
(h)
32
26.4	If in the event employees working in offices or other sedentary positions require safety clothing, such issue will only be granted upon approval. of the Director of Employee Relations.
ARTICLE 27 - RETIREMENT ALLOWANCE - Revised
A retirement allowance of $1,102.47 (January 1/95) will be paid to each active employee on the date of his/her normal retirement (age 65) and to compassionate disability or ERIP benefit recipients employees on reaching 65 (not applicable to Pre-Retirement Leave) .
Escalation:
The retirement allowance of $1,102.47 shall be escalated annually for cost-of-living increases commencing January 1, 199 6, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases, and, if the aforementioned formula by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the retirement allowance is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
ARTICLE 28 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
28:01 For all purposes of the Collective Agreement.,
"technological change" shall have the meaning defined in the Canada Labour Code. For the purposes of the technological change provisions of the Collective Agreement, an "incumbent" shall mean any employee who has attained ten (10) years of service from his recent date of hire.
U-
No incumbent shall be laid off from the Corporation due to technological change, provided that any incumbent, if required by the corporation due to any technological change, shall submit to reasonable retraining by or under the auspices of the Corporation and shall accept transfer to any operating site within the Corporation. Nothing in this provision shall be construed as a waiver by any employee, whether incumbent or otherwise, of his right under the Canada Labour Code to make an application in respect of technological change.
28:02 In the event of the installation of new mechanical, electronic or automated equipment that will affect the job status of any employees in the bargaining unit, the Corporation will, as far in advance as practical before the installation of such equipment, meet with the Union Grievance i Committee and provide the Committee with data regarding I proposed installation, number, and classification of employees likely to be affected by such installation.
33
ARTICLE 29 - JOB POSTING
29:01 When the Corporation determines that a permanent vacancy exists within the bargaining unit, the corporation will post notice of the position at all of its operational sites for a period of ten (10) working days. All interested bargaining unit employees must apply in writing for the position within the ten (10) day posting period.
29:02 In filling a permanent vacancy, preference will be given to applicants who have the required qualifications and are immediately able to do the work. When the Corporation determines that two (2) or more applicants possess equal qualifications and ability, the applicants most recent continuous length of service with the Corporation will be determining factor.
29:03 If, in the Corporation's opinion there are no qualified applicants from within the bargaining unit who apply for the permanent vacancy, the Corporation may, at its discretion, select the best applicant according to the criteria in paragraph :02 of this article and implement a training or familiarization period for that employee in the new position or the Corporation may advertise for and fill the permanent vacancy with applicants outside the bargaining unit who will not require such a training or familiarization period.
29:04 Whenever possible, the Corporation will attempt to select the successful applicant for the permanent vacancy within the ten (10) working days following the expiration of the posting period outlined in paragraph :01 hereof. The Union will be advised of the successful applicant when the Corporation makes its selection.
29.05	Where it is known in advance that a temporary position of sixty (60) calendar days duration or longer exists, the Corporation will post such position in accordance with Article 29.01 above.
29.06	In the event any employee becomes incumbent in a temporary position under 29.05, and such position becomes permanent, the position will be posted under 29.01.
ARTICLE 30 - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
^	*30:01 The Corporation agrees to pay a severance allowance to an
z ' -- employee whose employment is permanently terminated because of \	lack of work.
30:02 The severance allowance payable in each case will be determined as follows:
34
(a)	For the first year of service, severance pay equivalent to three (3) weeks pay at the applicable datal rate;
(b)	For each year of completed service thereafter, severance pay equivalent to two (2) weeks pay at the applicable datal rate. Notwithstanding the above, no employee entitled to a severance allowance shall receive less than eight (8) weeks severance pay at the applicable datal rate nor more than sixteen (16) weeks severance pay at the applicable datal rate.
30:03 Employees entitled to a severance allowance will also be entitled to a Weekly Severance Unemployment Benefit. That benefit shall be equivalent to the Supplementary Unemployment Benefit as provided in Article 30 and calculated on the basis of the value of that benefit at the time of termination. The Benefit shall be received during the employee's period of Unemployment Insurance Benefit subsequent to termination to a maximum of 52 weeks. Employees receiving this Benefit are not entitled to receive the Supplementary Unemployment Benefit.
30:04 The provisions of this Article are intended to minimize impact of the termination of employment of employees. Therefore, this payment under this article shall be the maximum payment for the purpose of any severance allowance provisions in any Adjustment Program pursuant to S.	60:11
through S. 60:15 of the Group Termination Provisions of Part III of the Canada Labour Code. For the purpose of severance allowance payment only those sections do not apply.
ARTICLE 31 - SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS - Revised
The general purpose of the Cape Breton Development Corporation Supplementary Unemployment Benefit Plan is to supplement the Unemployment Insurance Benefits of eligible employees represented by the Canadian Auto Workers, Local 4 504, receiving Unemployment Insurance Benefits as a result of layoff.
An eligible employee is one who has completed h i s probationary period and is deemed to be a permanent employee.
The Plan is administered by the Corporation and financed out of general revenue, and a separate accounting will be kept of SUB payments.
The Plan will become effective on December 1, 1992, and will be reviewed, and revised if necessary, from time to time to ensure its ongoing appropriateness. The Corporation will notify the Canada Employment and Immigration Commission within thirty (30) days of the effective date of any such revision.
31.01
31.02
31.03
35
31.04	The maximum number of weeks of SUB payments will be fifty-two (52).
31.05	The SUB will be $66.12 per week (1995$), subject to indexation on January 1, 1996, and on January 1st of each year thereafter. In any week the total of SUB payments and the weekly rate of U.I. benefits will not exceed 95% of the employees weekly earnings. The employee does not have any vested rights under the SUB Plan, except to receive payments for the covered unemployment periods. The SUB can only be renewed for the duration of the Collective Agreement between the Corporation and the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (caw-CANADA).
31.06	An employee must apply for, and be in receipt of,
unemployment insurance benefits to receive benefits under the Plan, except if:	(a) he/she is serving the two week
waiting period; (b) he/she has insufficient weeks of insurable employment to qualify for UI benefits; (c) his/her entitlement to UI has exhausted.
31.07	No Supplementary Unemployment Benefit is payable if an employee:-
a)	has submitted his resignation;
b)	has been suspended for disciplinary reasons;
c)	takes part in a strike, walkout, picket, act of sabotage or other action towards the work place or any other conflict in which the employees participate.
d)	is receiving Wage Loss Replacement benefits for current compensation (not including permanent partial disability pensions), UIC sick benefits, Weekly Indemnity, or Long Term Disability, or is receiving paid sick leave under Article 13 of the Agreement;
e)	is on leave of absence;
f)	refuses to return to work when asked by the Corporation in accordance with the seniority provisions of the Agreement or for any other reason.
31.08	Payments in respect of deferred remuneration or severance pay benefits will not be reduced or increased by payments received under the Plan.
36
31.09	The Corporation' s Revenue Taxation registration number is CBD 100064.
31.10	The number of employees covered under the plan is approximately one hundred sixty-seven (167).
31.11	The downtime must not have resulted either directly or indirectly from any action of any employee covered by this Agreement.
31.12	The employee's gross earnings for the weekly pay period must not have exceeded a sum equal to three times the individual's classification rate in effect at the time of the downtime.
31.13	Downtime shall not include legal holidays or vacation days.
ARTICLE 32 - DEATH BENEFITS FOR PENSIONERS
It is agreed that subject to the exceptions outlined in this Article, there will be a deduction of ten (10) cents from each employee and the amount so deducted shall be added to a Corporation Payment of $750.00 and paid to the beneficiary upon the death of any person who retired prior to November 1, 1965, under the provisions of the 1923 Pension Plan provided that such persons had no benefits under the current Group Life Insurance Plan. For the purposes of this Article, an employee who was on the books of the Dominion Coal Co. Ltd. or Old Sydney Collieries Ltd., but off work at November 1, 1965, and who died prior to returning to work, the beneficiary shall be considered eligible for the Death Benefit as outlined herein.
If the Government accepts responsibility and a Compensation Pension had been paid or if the former employee is on a "burnt-out" pension, there will be a ten cent deduction from employees but no $750.00 contribution by the Corporation.
ARTICLE 3 3 - COMPASSIONATE LUMP SUM PAYMENT
The Corporation shall, subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, make a compassionate lump sum payment not to exceed $25,000.00 to the widow and wholly dependent children of any employee who is fatally injured while at his work place.
37
1.	The maximum sum payable to the widow shall be $10,000.00, In cases where the deceased employee has no surviving widow, then the principal sum of $10,000.00 which would otherwise have been payable to the widow shall be made to the legal guardian, if any, for the benefit of the deceased employees' wholly dependent children.
2,	The maximum sum payable in respect to wholly dependent children shall be $15,000.00 calculated on the following basis:
(a)	For each wholly dependent child $5,000.00 to a maximum of three children or $15,000.00 each.
(b)	In cases where there are more than three wholly dependent children the amount per child shall be determined by dividing $15,000.00 by the total number of wholly dependent children.
AflXICLE 34 ~ CONTRACT NEGOTIATION MEETINGS - Revised
The Corporation will compensate two (2) designated bargaining unit representatives to attend contract negotiation, arbitration and conciliation meetings. Payment will be made only for rostered shifts missed. Only those employees who are designated as official union representatives are eligible for such payment.
Time Off for Union Business
Where operational requirements permit, management will grant reasonable time off work with pay to not more than two Union representatives who are meeting with the Corporation on matters pertaining to the Collective Agreement.
38
ARJJCI 1	35 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT- Revised
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the period January 1, 1993, to March 31, 1995, and shall be renewed automatically from year to year thereafter, unless one of the parties gives to the other party, within ninety (90) days of the expiry date of the agreement, notice of its intention to terminate or seek amendments to this agreement. After receipt of such notice, both parties shall meet for the purpose of negotiating amendments to this agreement. During the negotiating period, this agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Signed on behalf of:
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
_
14	. ~	‘
Date	/?4C
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION, AND GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA)
LOCAL 4504
DATE
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
&PR 18
WITH RESPECT TO AMENDING THE CURRENT COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
The undersigned parties to a collective agreement hereby agree that the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada) and its Local jASlG.4.— is the successor Union to the Canadian Brotherhood of Railway, Transport and General Workers (CBRT & GW) and its Local 5oA an(j has thereby required the rights, privileges, and duties of the CBRT & GW and accordingly the collective agreement, including the recognition clause therein, is amended to substitute CAW-Canada and its Localwherever reference to the CBRT & GW and its Local 50A is made or inferred, in the said collective agreement.
Dated at (fMce &oy US., this /f,$6day of	,1995.
39
APPENDIX "A"
POSITION GRADE
P0SITION TITLE__________STAND. HRS. _OE_WQRK/WK
13
12
11
10
09
08
07
06
*Design Draftsman	35
Senior Transitman	40
Draftsman 1	35
Transitman	40
Laboratory Technician	35
Draftsman II	35
Compassman	40
Stonedust Sampler	40
Coal Inspector Sampler	4 0
Laboratory Assistant	35
Draftsman III	35
05	Chainman	40
Junior Draftsman	35
04	Draftsman - Trainee	35
Limited to not more than two employees at any one time in each of the Mining and Mechanical Drafting Departments.
POSITION
14
13
12
11
10
09
08
07
40
APPENDIX »A-1»
GRADE	POSITION TITLE	STAND. HRS
Systems Programmer Senior Systems Analyst Accounts Rec/Sales Tax Clerk Cashier/Expense Account Clerk
Int. Systems Analyst Senior Programmer Customs & Traffic Agent
Buyer I Programmer
User Support Co-ordinator
Machine Operator
Sr. Inventory Control Clerk
Buyer II
Accounts Payable Expeditor Senior Receiving Clerk Reorder Clerk
Distribution Clerk Accounting Clerk Payroll Control Clerk Asst. Planner (V.J. Plant) Storekeeper (Central Shops)
Sr Colliery Clerk/Timekeeper
Storekeeper
Inventory Control Clerk
Buyer III
Colliery Clerk/Timekeeper
Receiving Clerk Materials Co-ordinator
Coal Sales Clerk Weighman Biller I Work Station Operator Purchasing Clerk
OF WORK/WK
U7 U) .ts. .C*	^ >C* U) CJ	iti U U U COOJWWWOJ WCJW U> W W W U> U) U)
070100 OOO 07U700	00070101	070701070707	010707	010707	07010707
06
05
04
03
02
41
Office Services Clerk Stores Attendant Weighman Biller II Weighman
Records Clerk/Typist
Safety Records Clerk Tape Librarian - Typist Assistant Maintenance Planner
Shipping Clerk Operator	35
Utility Clerk	35
35
40
40
40
35
35
35
40
Data Entry Operator Clerk Typist (Stores)
35
35
Clerk Typist Receptionist/Clerk
42
APPENDIX ttBl* LIST OF GROUPS
Group 1
Weighman, Coal Sales Clerk, Weighman Biller, Coal Records and Distribution Clerk, Cash!er/Expense Account Clerk, Accounts Receivalple/Sales Tax Clerk, Clerk/Timekeeper, Senior Clerk/Timekeeper, payroll Control Clerks, Clerk Typist, Work Station Operator, Print Room Operator, Invoice Clerk, Receptionist, Distribution Clerk, Mail Clerk, Billing Clerk, Safety Records Clerk, (Expeditor Accounts Payable), Buyers, Customs Clerk, Inventory Control clerk, Buyers Clerk, Receiving Clerk, Storekeepers, Stores Attendants, Materials CoCoordinators, Assistant Planners.
Group 2
Management Information Systems positions
Group 3
Transitman, Compassman, Chainman, Stonedust Sampler, Coal Sampler, Shotfirer, Mine Examiner.
Group 4
Design Draftsman, Draftsman I, II, III Group 5
Process Assistant (Carbogel), Lab Assistant (Carbogel), Plant Operator (Carbogel), Lab Analyst, Lab Assistant.
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON 43
T.F.TTF.R OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 1
March 20, 1995
Mr. Victor Tomiczek National Representative, CAW Suite 102, Moosehead Building 226 Townsend Street Sydney, Nova Scotia B1P 5E6
Dear Sir:
REl preferred places in mine
This letter will confirm the understanding reached today, during wage negotiations, between the persons signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Corporation agrees that when a vacancy occurs for a position of Mine Examiner, the Senior Shotfirer applying at the mine where the vacancy occurs, shall be appointed to the position provided he has the qualifications for performing the job.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, if there is a shotfirer irrespective of his seniority, for whom a case can be made on a bonafide medical/physical grounds, then before any appointment is made representatives of management and Local 4504, CAW shall first meet and, if there is Union concurrence, he shall be appointed to the position on compassionate grounds provided he has the qualifications for performing the job.
If you concur in the above, please indicate in the space provided.
Yours very truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I
concur
Victor Tomiczekj/ybAW
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2840 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	f'1	1IH
C.P. 2500, Sydney, N-£, Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	L3H(lu3
^ CAPE BRETON
jS* DEVELOPMENT
W* CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON 44
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 2
1995/03/20
Mr. Victor Tomiczek National Representative, CAW Suite 102, Moosehead Building 226 Townsend Street Sydney NS B1P 5E6
Dear Sir:
RE:	INCENTIVE PLAN COVERAGE - LOCAL *SC4. CAW
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto respect ing the above-mentioned matter, and becomes effective the first day of the calendar month following ratification.
An employee occupying a job classification coming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit (CAW 4504), as described in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certification Order dated April 15, 1990, will be subject to the terms and conditions of the Corporation's Incentive Plan, continue to be eligible for coverage under the said Plan during the term of the Collective Agreement between the parties.
If you concur with the above, please so indicate in the space provided below.
Yours truly,
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902)842-2589	ji*i
C.P. 2500, Sydney, N-£, Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	VvclIlciQtl
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3
March 20, 1995
Mr. Victor Tomiczek National Representative, CAW Suite 102, Moosehead Building 226 Townsend Street Sydney, N.S. B1P 5E6
Dear Sir:
RE:	SURVEYORS - PRODUCTION WALL FACE RATE MAKE-UP PAYMENT
This letter will confirm the understanding reached during contract negotiations between the parties signatory hereto, in respect to the above-mentioned matter, to the effect that when a survey party is required by management to work on a production wall face and carry out functions listed below, they shall be paid their regular rate of pay plus the difference between their regular rate of pay for the shift and the production wall face rate of pay for a UMW of A employee. This to be effective date of signing.
1.	A production wall face survey.
2.	Production wall face - standard quota measurements.
If you concur with the above, please indicate in the space provided.
Yours very truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations I concur
Victor Tomiczek,
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	p	ji*»
C.P. 2500, Sydney, N-£. Canada B1P6K9 Tel (902)564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	VwRIlcLClB.
^	CAPE BRETON	SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPMENT	DEVELOPPEMENT
WS:	CORPORATION	DU CAP-BRETON	46
1995/03/20
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 4
Mr. Victor Tomiczek National Representative, CAW Suite 102, Mooseheeid Building 226 Townsend Street Sydney NS B1P 5E6
Dear Sir:
RE:	OVERPAYMENTS
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above mentioned matter.
The Corporation agrees to collect any overpayment to employees at the same rate and over the same period of time as that during which the overpayment has been made up to a maximum of six (6) months.
Yours truly
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I concur
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	p	ll*!
C.P. 2500, Sydney, N-f=, Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	Ldll3.(icl
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
W* CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON 47
1995/03/20	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5
WITHOUT PREJUDICE
Mr, Victor Tomiczek National Representative, CAW Suite 102, Moosehead Building 226 Townsend Street Sydney, N.S, B1P 5E6
Dear Mr, Tomiczek:
Re:	Letter of Understanding - Corporation Proposal on ERIP
This letter will confirm the understanding reached today on the above-noted matter. The Corporation is prepared to permit three eligible members of the CAW bargaining unit to take advantage of the Early Retirement Incentive Program as per the Corporation’s proposal.
It is understood and agreed that this arrangement is in recognition and full settlement of the reduction in the bargaining unit as a result of the on-line analyzer of which the Union was previously notified. In order for any additional employees to be eligible, there would have to be an equal reduction in the number of positions in the bargaining unit. The criteria for eligibility is as follows:
Age 56 or older with total points (age and continuous service) totalling a least seventy-five (75) points calculated as of December 31, 1994,
Benefit levels will be comparable to that paid those employees who went on Early Retirement under the five year plan.
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union’s concurrence with this understanding.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I concur
Victor Tomiczek,
P.O. Box 2500. Sydney, N.S., Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	p	li*l
C.P. 2500, Sydney, N-£, Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	L3Il(luS
48
Eff. January 1/90 - 4.0%	Eff. January 1/91 - 4.0%	Eff. January 1/92 - 5.0%
CLERICAL POSITIONS 35 HOURS PER WEEK
POS GRADE START FST PROG. STANDARD START FST PROG. STANDARD START FST PROG
14	2491.36	2629.77
13	2419.63	2554.06
12	2356.41	2487.32
11	2302.04	2429.93
10	2256.54	2381.90
9	2214.81	2337.86
a	2183.18	2304.47
7	2156.68	2276.49
6	2131.38	2249.79
5	2106.09	2223.10
4	2077.03	2192.42
3	2052.59	2166.62
2	2020.14	2132.37
2768.18 2591.01 2734.96 2688.48 2516.42 2656.22 2618.23 2450.66 2586.81 2557.82 2394.12 2527.12
2507.26	2346.80 2477.18
2460.80	2303.40 2431.37 2425.76 2270.51 2396.65 2396.31 2242.94 2367.55 2368.20 2216.64 2339.79 2340.10 2190.34 2312.02
2307.81	2160.11 2280.12 2280.66 2134.70 2253.29 2244.60 2100.95 2217.67
2878.91 2720.57 2871.71 2796.02 2642.24 2789.03 2722.96 2573.20 2716.15 2660.13 2513.82 2653.48 2607.55 2464.14 2601.03 2559.34 2418.57 2552.94 2522.79 2384.04 2516.48 2492.16 2355,09 2485.93 2462.93 2327.47 2456.78 2433.71 2299.85 2427.62 2400.12 2268.12 2394.12 2371.88 2241.43 2365.95 2334.38 2205.99 2328.55
CLERICAL POSITIONS 40 HOURS PER WEEK
14	-	-
13	-	-
12	2471.46	2608.76
11	2413.32	2547.39
10	2362.74	2494.00
9	2315.95	2444.62
8	2280.55	2407.24
7	2252.75	2377.90
6	2223.67	2347.21
5	2195.86	2317.85
4	2165.52	2285.83
3	2133.91	2252.46
2	2102.30	2219.10
2746.07 2570.30 2713.12 2681.46 2509.85 2649.29
2625.26	2457.24 2593.76 2573.28 2408.59 2542.40 2533.94 2371.77 2503.53 2503.05 2342.86 2473.01 2470.75 2312.62 2441.10 2439.84 2283.69 2410.56 2406.13 2252.14 2377.26 2371.01 2219.27 2342.56 2335.89 2186.39 2307.86
2855.91 2698.84 2848.77 2788.72 2635.34 2781.75
2730.27	2580.11 2723.45 2676.21 2529.02 2669.52 2635.30 2490.36 2628.71 2603.17 2460.00 2596.67 2569.58 2428.25 2563.15 2537.43 2397.87 2531.09 2502.38 2364.75 2496.12 2465.85 2330.23 2459.69 2429.33 2295.71 2423.25
STANDARD
3022.85
2935.82
2859.11
2793.14
2737.93 2687.30
2648.93 2616.77 2586.08 2555.39 2520.13 2490.48 2451.10
2998.71
2928.16
2866.79 2810.02
2767.06 2733.33
2698.06 2664.31 2627.50 2589.15
2550.79
49
Eff. uanuary 1/90 - 4.0%
Eff. January 1/91 - 4.0%	Eff. January 1/92 - 5.0%
TECHNICAL POSITIONS 35 HOURS PER WEEK
POS GRADE START FST PROG. STANDARD START FST PROG. STANDARD START FST PROG. STANDARD
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
2461.32 2598.06 2398.13 2531.35 2343.76 2473.97 2297.00 2424.61 2256.54 2381.90 2221.15 2344.54 2195.86 2317.85 2168.05 2288.49 2141.50 2260.47 2107.36 2224.43 2074,49 2189.74 2042.90 2156.40
2734.80	2559.78
2664.58	2494.05
2604.18	2437.51
2552.22	2388.88
2507.26	2346.80
2467.94	2309.99
2439.84	2283.69
2408.94	2254.77
2379.45	2227.16
2341.51	2191,65
2304.99	2157.47
2269.89	2124.62
TECHNICAL POSITION
2701.99 2844.20 2632.61 2771.75 2572.93 2708.35 2521.60 2654.31 2477.18 2607.55
2438.33	2566.66 2410.56 2537.43 2380.03 2505.30 2350.89 2474.63 2313.41 2435.17
2277.33	2397.19 2242.65 2360.69 - 40 HOURS PER WEEK
2687,77
2618.75
2559.39
2508.32
2464.14
2425.49
2397.87
2367.51
2338.52 230 i.23 2265.35 2230.85
2837.09
2764.24 2701.58 2647.68
2601.03
2560.24
2531.09
2499.04 2468.44 2429.08 2391.20 2354.79
2986.41
2909.73
2843.77
2787.03
2737.93 2694.99 2664.31 2630.56 2598.36
2556.93 2517.05 2478.72
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
2439.83 2385.48 2338.71 2298.25 2264.11 2237.56 2209.75
2171.83 2149.07 2116.22 2084.60
2575.38
2518.01
2468.64
2425.93
2389.89
2361.87
2332.51
2292.49
2268.47
2233.79
2200.41
2710.93
2650.53
2598.56
2553.61
2515.68
2486.18
2455.27
2413.14
2387.86
2351.36
2316.23
2537.43
2480.90
2432.26
2390.17
2354.67
2327.07
2298.14
2258.70
2235.04
2200.87
2167.99
2678.40
2618.73
2567.38
2522.96
2485.49
2456.35
2425.81
2384.19
2359.21
2323.14
2288.43
2819.36
2756.55
2702.51
2655.75
2616.30
2585.63
2553.48
2509.67
2483.38
2445.41
2408.87
2664.30
2604.94
2553.87
2509.68
2472.41
2143.42 2413.04 2371.64 2346.79 2310.91 2276.39
2812.32 2749.66 2695.75 2649.11 2609.761
2579.17 2547.10 2503.39
2477.17 2439.30 2402.85
2960.33
2894.38
2837.63
2788.54 2747.12 2714.91 2681.16 2635.15
2607.54 2567.68 2529.32