COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
AND
CANADIAN UNION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES - 2046
FOR THE
PERIOD JANUARY 1, 199 3 TO MARCH 31, 1995
2
ARTICLE__1
PREAMBLE
Whereas the Cape Breton Development Corporation was set up because of the long and severe decline of the coal industry in Cape Breton, and
Whereas Devco and the Union agree that this decline can now be stopped, but to achieve this will require greatly increased productivity and a basis for reducing the operating losses paid	by	the Treasury	of Canada	and
thereby justifying the investment of Federal funds in the maintenance, improvement, and development of mines, and
Whereas Devco and the	Union share the	objective	of
improving wages and working conditions to the maximum extent compatible with security of employment, and
Whereas DeVCO and the Union recognize that such security of employment depends	on	good working	practices	to
Utilize machinery efficiently, enhance safety and yield high productivity,
Therefore, Devco and	the	Union make	the following
agreement:
Whereas it is the desire of both parties of this Agreement:
To maintain and improve the harmonious relationship between the Corporation Management and the Union:
To provide for the prompt and equitable adjustment of all differences which may arise between the parties to or persons bound by this Agreement concerning its meaning or violation:
To recognise that safety and the health of all employees is a primary consideration of the parties:
To promote health care and safety of employees to ensure a healthy and consequently productive work force.
ARTICLE 2	_____RECOGNITION___________________
2.01	The Corporation recognises the Canadian Union of Public Employees, Local 2046, as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for the bargaining unit employees as defined in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certificate.
3
2.02	The Union recognizes that Local 2046 is comprised of
supervisors, nurses, security guards, and railway despatchers, and, it shall in no way restrict any employee in the discharge of his/her customary duties and responsibilities as a bargaining unit employee.
2.03	No employee covered by this Agreement shall be asked or
permitted to make any verbal or written agreement which may conflict with the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3	MANAGEMENT_______
3.01	The Management of the employer’s business and the employment, direction, and supervision of employees, including transfer, promotions, demotions, layoffs, supervision and discipline (including discharge) for proper cause is vested in the management, provided the foregoing shall not be exercised by the employer in a manner contrary to the terms of this Agreement. The Union shall have the right of appeal through the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE__4
DISCRIMINATION
4.01	The Corporation and the Union agree that there shall be no discrimination exercised or practised with respect to an employee by reason of race, colour, religion, age, sex, ethnicity, marital status, family status, disability, conviction for which a pardon has been granted, or membership in a trade union.
ARTICLE__5
ORIENTATION
5.01	The site head, or designate, will ensure the new employee
is provided a review of the employee benefit programs, the duties and responsibilities of the position to which appointed, and the obligations to the Corporation and the Union.
5.02	Upon first commencing employment within the bargaining
unit, the employee’s site head, or designate, will introduce the employee to the Department’s Union representative.
5.03	The designated Union representative will be provided an
opportunity to explain the Union organization and membership responsibilities to the employee during the first month of employment within the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE
6
SECURITY OF EMPLOYMENT
23-25
6.01	Any person who was on the books of Devco on April 1, 1968j_£Ti 11^. not be removed from the books unless offered
^reasonable alternative employment, subject to the following conditions.
6.02	The	above	undertaking in	no way limits the right	of
Devco, because of its responsibility for the safe and efficient conduct of operations, to suspend or dismiss any man for cause.
6.03	The	above undertaking	in no way qualifies	the
responsibility of Devco temporarily to reduce or suspend a particular operation or part of an operation if such action is necessary to the satisfactory conduct and development of the mining operation as a whole within the funds provided by the Parliament of Canada.
6.04	The	above	undertaking in	no way qualifies the right	of
Devco to	lay off men	if abnormal circumstances	so
require, but Devco will make every reasonable effort to ensure that a full forty hours' work each week is available to all men who comply with the rules of regular attendance described in Article 8.
ARTICLE
UNION SECURITY
7.01 Every employee who is a member of the Union at the A effective date of this agreement, or who becomes a member \ of the Union during the life of the Agreement, shall continue to be a member in good standing of the Union during the life of the Agreement, provided he continues to be eligible as a member. During the life of the Agreement such employee shall have deducted from his wages all dues, levies, fines and assessments authorised by and in accordance with the Constitution of the Union and/or By-Laws.
7.02	An employee not a member of the Union, but who occupies
a position with the bargaining unit, shall after ninety l (90) working days during the term of the Collective Agreement become a member of the bargaining unit or cease to perform work that is under the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit.
7.03	Every employee who is not a member of the Union but who
occupies a position within the bargaining unit shall hav^| deducted from his wages, a sum equivalent to Union dues| in such amount as may from time to time be assessed to| their members according to the Union Constitution and/or/ By-Laws.
1-3
5
All new employees occupying positions within the bargaining unit shall have deducted from their wages, within 3 0 days of employment, a sum equivalent to Union dues in such amount as may from time to time be assessed to their members according to its Constitution and/or ByLaws.
At the end of each week, the Corporation shall remit by cheque the total of the weekly deductions made, together with a relevant statement. In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment that an employee already has made to the Union, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the provision of the Union Constitution and By-Laws, refunds will be made to the employee by the Union.
DUES RECEIPTS:	At the same time that Income Tax (T-4)
slips are made available, the Employer shall show the amount of Union dues paid by each Union member in the previous year.
The Union shall indemnify the Corporation and hold it harmless against any and all liability which may arise by reason of the checkoff by the Corporation of Union dues, levies, fines, and assessments from employees' wages in accordance with this agreement.
ARTICLE _a - -	REGULARITY OF WORK______________
8.01	Devco and the Union agree that conscientious and regular work is essential to the agreed objectives of maintaining employment at good wages, and both parties therefore recognize that absenteeism is a serious obstacle to their objectives.
8.02	Accordingly, Devco and the Union agree that it is a
condition of continued employment that no man will be absent from a scheduled shift, other than for reasons (such as sickness, compensable accident or welfare) already	known to Devco,	unless he gives the
supervisor/department manager's office notice of his intended absence, along with a reason satisfactory to management, at least one hour before the starting time of the scheduled shift.
8.03	A man who has been absent, for any reason other than one where the precise period of the absence was arranged in advance, must ensure that the supervisor/department manager's office is informed of his intended return to work at least two hours before the starting time of the shift, and if such notice has not been given he will be sent home.
7.04
7.05
7.06
7.07
6
8.04
ARTICLE
9.01
9.02
ARTICLE
10.01
10.02
Any man who fails to give notice of absence, or who fails to establish satisfactory reason for absence,. will be interviewed and given a confirming letter, and on repetition will have a further interview followed by a confirming letter and any man who is absent on three occasions without notice or without satisfactory reason will be interviewed followed by a confirming letter and a suspension, with pay, for one full shift and will be liable for dismissal.
9___ ________________UNION ACTIVITIES
The Union and the employees covered by this Agreement shall not conduct activities during working hours except as in this Agreement, expressly provided, nor shall Union meetings of any kind be held at any time on the premises of the Corporation without prior written consent of the Corporation.
The Union will provide the Corporation with the names of the Departmental Stewards and of the Local Chairman and will provide the name of any alternate in the event of substitution.
10	LABOUR/MANAGEMENT BARGAINING RELATIONS
REPRESENTATION
The Corporation shall not bargain with or enter into any agreement with an employee or group of employees in the bargaining unit. No employee or group of employees shall undertake to represent the union at meetings with the Corporation without the proper authorization of the Union. In representing an employee or group of employees, an elected or appointed representative of the Union shall be the spokesman. In order that this may be carried out, the Union will supply the Corporation with the names of its officers. Likewise, the Corporation shall supply the Union with a list of its management personnel with whom the Union may be required to transact business.
UNION BARGAINING COMMITTEE
A Union Bargaining Committee shall be elected or appointed and consist of not more than five (5) members of the Union. The Union will advise the Corporation of the Union nominees to the Committee.
7
10.03	The Union/Corporation may have the assistance of a representative from inside or outside the Union/Corporation in all matters pertaining to the relations between the Union and the Corporation.
10.04	If the National Representative of the Union servicing this bargaining unit or his nominee wishes to contact one of the Union representatives at work concerning some urgent in-plant problem relating to the agreement, he shall make such requests through the Department/Site Head, or designate, and, providing such meeting will not interfere with the operations, arrangements will be made for such Union representatives to confer in private, at the premises of the Corporation.
ARTICLE 11	STRIKES, LOCKOUTS, ETC.
11.01	The Corporation agrees that there shall be no lockout and the Union and the employees agree that there shall be no strike, picketing, slowdown of work, either complete or partial curtailment of production or interference with the operations of the Corporation during the life of this Agreement or while negotiations for its amendment or renewal are in progress.
11.02	Upon receipt of any notice pursuant to Part 1, Canada
Labour Code from the Union of its intention to commence a lawful strike, representatives of the Corporation and the Union shall meet for the purpose of reviewing and determining the extent to which employees, coming within the bargaining unit, will be required to maintain services essential to the safety of the collieries and protection of the Corporation’s product and property. Such employees shall not suspend work, but shall, when mining is suspended, fully protect all the Corporation's property under their care.
No member of the bargaining unit shall leave his place of work in any work stoppage situation without first ensuring that all equipment and/or machinery, etc. is shut down in a safe and orderly manner.
ARTICLE 12	ALCOHOLISM St DRUG ADDUCTION
12.01	Without detracting from the existing rights and obligations of the parties recognised in other provisions of this Agreement, the Corporation and the Union agree toA cooperate at the Colliery or department level in 1 encouraging employees afflicted with alcoholism or drug addiction to undergo a co-ordinated program directed to the objective of their rehabilitation.
■z-H
8
ARTICLE	13	DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE_________
13.01 The	Corporation Policy and Procedure	entitled
Corrective Discipline shall cover all matters of discipline and discharge of employees covered by the Collective Agreement.
13.02	Any employee has the right to review his/her personnel
file.
13.02	When an employee is to be given discipline, he/she will
be entitled to have a Union Representative present.
ARTICLE 14	NO GRIEVANCE WHEN MINE IS IDLE IN
VIOLATION OF AGREEMENT______________
14.01	Under no circumstances shall a grievance be taken up for
adjustment during a suspension of work in violation of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 15	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE_______
15.01	A grievance shall be a difference of interpretation of
this Agreement or the violation of the provision of this Agreement.	Every grievance shall be subject to the
grievance procedure set out hereunder:
Step 1: When an employee has a grievance he shall within five (5) working days of the occurrence of the incident giving rise to the grievance, file the grievance in writing on the form attached hereto as 'Schedule Y1 with the Shift Manager or Department Head, who shall provide him with an answer, in writing, within two (2) working days.
Step 21 Should the written answer given by the Shift Manager or Department Head not be acceptable to the grievor, then the grievor and his steward shall meet with the designated manager and attempt to resolve the grievance within five (5) working days. The Manager shall give his decision, in writing, within seven (7) working days of receipt of the alleged grievance.
Step 3:	Failing settlement at Step 2, the grievance may
be appealed by the Local Chairman of the Grievance Committee to the General Manager or his nominee within five working days of delivery of the decision at Step 2. At this step, the General Manager or his nominee, and a representative of the Employee Relations Department shall meet and discuss the grievance with the Local Chairman or his nominee and other representatives of the Union as the local chairman shall designate, not to exceed two
9
employee members of the bargaining unit together with a national representative of the union, or his nominee, if he desires to attend. The General Manager will act as Chairman of this Step 3 meeting. The two employee members of the bargaining unit may be exceeded from time to time when requested by the Union, and the circumstances of the particular grievance require additional representation.	The decision of the
Corporation at this step shall be rendered within ten (10) calendar days of the deliver of the appeal to the General Manager. Failing settlement of the grievance at Step	3,	the matter	may	then	be referred	to	arbitration
within fifteen (15)	days of the decision	at	Step	3.
NOTE:	Distribution of Replies:
Step	1	- Grievor	and	Local	Chairman
Step	2	- Grievor	and	Local	Chairman
Step 3	- National Representative and Local Chairman
15.02	In the case of a discharge or where a dispute involving
a question of general application or interpretation occurs, Step 1 may be by-passed.
15.03	The Corporation may institute a grievance by delivering the same, in writing, to the President of Local Union 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees, and the president shall answer such grievance within seven (7) working days. If the answer is not acceptable to the Corporation, the Corporation may within ten (10) working days from the day the President gives his answer, given ten (10) working days' notice to the president of the Local Union 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees, of its intention to refer the dispute to arbitration.
15.04	The time limits, as herein expressed, may be extended by
mutual agreement of the parties hereto.
15.05	For purposes of this Article - Sundays, Saturdays, and
holidays shall not be counted as working days.
ARBITRATION
15.06	Notice in writing may be given by one party to the other,
after the foregoing designated procedures have been exhausted, requiring the unresolved grievance to be submitted to arbitration. In such cases, the Corporation and the Union shall each appoint an arbitrator within ten (10) days following the delivery of the written notice calling for arbitration, and these two (2) arbitrators shall endeavour to appoint a third, who shall be Chairman.	The tarrties; mav. however, mutually agree to
10
the appointment of a single arbitrator to hear the matter. If the Chairman is not selected by the first two named within fifteen (15) days after the delivery of the written notice, then the Chairman shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour, Canada.
15.07	The hearing shall be heard in Cape Breton unless the
parties otherwise mutually agree in writing. Each party shall bear the remuneration and expenses, if any of the arbitrator appointed by that party. The remuneration and expenses of the chairman, if any, shall be borne equally by both parties. The Arbitration Board shall render a decision within thirty (30) days after presentation of arguments, unless there is a mutual agreement on a postponement.
15.08	In the event a	unanimous	decision	is	not reached,	the
decision	of the	majority	shall be	the	decision of	the
Board.	Should	no majority decision	be reached,	the
decision	of the	Chairman	shall be	the	decision of	the
Board.	In all cases, the decision shall be final and
binding upon both parties, but in no case shall the decision alter, modify, or amend any part of this Agreement, or make any other decision inconsistent with specific terms of this Agreement.
The Board shall have the authority, in cases where its decision is that the grievor was improperly discharged or suspended, to order his reinstatement.
Any voluntary abandonment of a grievance by either party to the Agreement will not prejudice the processing of a similar grievance entered at a later date provided that the Union has acknowledged, in writing, that they were so abandoning the grievance without decision.
ARTICLE 16	LEAVE OF ABSENCE________
Union Functions	.	.	_
--------------- 6?k-3
16.01	Upon written request to the employer, an employee elected
or appointed to represent the Union at conventions, or to attend executive and committee meetings of CUPE, shall be allowed leave of absence without pay. This shall be limited to five (5) employees Wtr any one time.
16.02	Elected union representatives will be permitted to report off work for the purpose of attending to Union business. Permission to take such time off must be requested under Clause . 02, Article 8, Regularity of Work. Confirmation of such absence must be confirmed in writing by the Union Executive.
11
16.03	General Leave	£	/\J ~ 5
An employee may be allowed 60 days leave of absence without pay in any one calendar year for personal regions if a request is made to the Corporation in writing! and the reason given is satisfactory to the Corporation. It is the exclusive right of the Corporation to refuse to grant leave of absence or to extend leave of absence for additional periods, for reasons satisfactory to the Corporation.
16.04	Leave of Absence for Full-Time Union or Public Duties
(a)
(b)
(c)
The employer recognises the right of an employee to participate in public affairs. Therefore, upon written request, the employer shall allow leave of absence without pay or benefits so the employee may be a candidate in federal, provincial, or municipal elections. , „ *,
An employee who is elected to public office, within the context of (a) of this article, shall be allowed leave of absence without loss of seniority during his term of office.
U J
An employee who is elected or selected for a fulltime position with the Union shall be granted leave of absence without loss of seniority for a maximum period of three years. Such leave may be renewed on request, by mutual agreement, during his term of office. It is understood such employee will not accrue credit for any Corporation benefits during such leave of absence.
(d) Employees granted leave of absence under Article
16.02	(b) (c) must return to work within (2) months after the expiration of such elected position of appointment.
ARTICLE	17	___________SENIORITY
17.01 Definitions
(a)	Seniority shall be defined as most recent date of employment with the Corporation.
(b)	'Probationary Employee' means an employee on probation for the first six months from his/her most recent date of employment wfttT the~€orporation.
12
(C)
(d)
(e)
17.02
(a)
(b)
(c)
’Permanent Employee' means an employee who occupies a position within the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement and who has satisfactorily completed his/her probationary period.
'Ability' shall include experience and skill on the job, attitude, and adaptability.
'Redundant means the elimination of a position. Employees affected as a result of redundancy will be considered as laid off and will be entitled to exercise their seniority in accordance with Article 17.02(d).
Lay-off and Recall
The Corporation shall retain the right at all times to maintain an efficient working force. The Corporation will advise union representatives in advance of any layoffs and provide details of classifications involved.
When Management is aware in advance of a reduction in the workforce, employees so affected by the reduction shall be given a minimum	five (5) days notice of layoff
prior to the ef^ctiveHate of layoff.
In the event of a lay-off of employees covered by this Agreement, probationary employees shall be laid off before permanent employees.
short Term Layoff
If a layoff is for a duration not exceeding three months, it will be confined to the affected location (s) only. Layoffs will be determined on the basis of Corporate seniority, subject to the employee's ability to perform the work. Ability is defined in 17.01(d) above. Employees who are laid off under this clause will be entitled to all benefits during the short-term layoff: provided, however, that employees who become injured or ill while on short-term layoff shall not be entitled to receive sick leave or LTD benefits until they would, but for their injury or illness, have otherwise been recalled to work.
General Lay-off
(i)	It is understood employees who exercise their seniority ir	must also have the
ability to	Ability defined in
above.
(ii)	An employee(s) who is (are) laid off from a classification at a site will be the employee (s) with the least Corgp£a.te-Beniority.
(iii)An employee(s) who is (are) laid off for a period which is expected to exceed three months, or which actually does exceed three months, although not originally expected to do so, will have the right to bump any junior employee in the bargaining unit.
(e)
Recall to work following a lay-off shall be done in
order of seniority provided the employees 2-recalled are able to perform satisfactorily the work to be done.
(f)	In the event an employee is recalled to work at a work site other than his/her former location and in the event that work again becomes available at his/her former location, or at a new location preferable to the employee, and before junior employees are assigned to the former location or new location, those employees with seniority would have a right to return to the former location or other new location before less senior employees.
(g)	Employees who opt to return to a former location or to a new location still have thirty (30) days to indicate their intentions beginning from the time the job at the former location or new location becomes permanent.
(h)	If an employee declines an opportunity to return to his/her former location, then such position will be filled by job posting, if applicable.
17.03	Loss of Employment Status
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, an employee's employment with the Corporation shall be terminated upon any one of the following:-
(a)	He/she is dismissed for just cause and such dismissal is not reversed through the grievance procedure.
(b)	He/she resigns in writing and does not withdraw the resignation within five working days.
(c)	He/she is absent from work in excess of five (5) working days without sufficient cause or without notifying the employer, unless such notice was not reasonably possible.
14
(d)	He/she fails to return to work within fifteen (15) calendar days following a layoff and after being.notified by registered mail to do so.	It shall be the
responsibility of the employee to keep the employer informed of his/her current address. An employee recalled for casual work shall not lose his recall rights for refusal to return to work.
(e)
If an employee is off work as a result of layoff for 24 months, if his/her employment service is less than 24 months. In the event the employee's service is between 24 months and 60 months, the employee will not lose ~C^( seniority until after a period of layoff corresponding to the length of the employee's service to a maximum of 60 months.
(f) Absence extended beyond an authorized vacation period
beyond a leave of absence granted by the Corporation where the reasons given for such extended absence are not satisfactory to the Corporation.
(g)	He/she retires.
17.04 SENIORITY LIST
The Corporation shall maintain a seniority list showing the current classification and the date upon which each employee’s service commenced. An up-to-date seniority list shall be sent to the Union and posted on all bulletin boards in January of each year.
17.05	Transfers
The following terms will govern the transfer of employees into or out of the bargaining unit.
(a)	No employee will be promoted to a position outside
the bargaining unit without his/her consent.
(b) When employees are appointed to positions within
the bargaining unit, the qualifying period will be three (3) months.
(c) In the event an employee is transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit, he/she shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit within one year of the appointment.
*
ARTICLE
18.01
18.02
18.03
18.04
18.05
18.06
18.07
18.08
15
(d)	If an employee who has been transferred out of the bargaining unit is appointed to a position in the bargaining unit after one year, or a person who was never a member of the bargaining unit is appointed to a bargaining unit position, such transfer or appointment will not result in the loss of a position to another bargaining unit member.
18
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME
The standard hours of work shall be forty (40) hours per week consisting of five (5) straight W-eight-hour shifts. The standard hours of work are exclusive of any time spent by the employee either before or after his eight (8) hour shift in making or receiving reports, both oral and written, as required by Management. Shift starting times shall be arranged to suit the operating schedule of the collieries and/or departments.
It will be the responsibility of each employee to comply with the timekeeping system requirements and be at his place of work by the established shift starting time and not leave this place of work until the end of the shift. In the case of underground employees, the last conveyance will leave the surface at the shift starting time and it will be the responsibility of the employee to be enroute to his work place below the portal at that time.
Employees required to work rotating shifts (days, nights, and evenings) shall be scheduled in such a way as to equitably assign the rotation among the employees at each work site. This does not preclude employees from being continuously assigned to an evening or night shift if mutually agreed.
During each eight (8) hour shift, an employee IS entitled to a lunch break of&i&period of tweny (20) minutes, at a time designated by Management whicntfill nt qreiudiice the over-all efficiency of the operation.
The hours of work shall normally be posted one week in advance of the schedule to be worked.
There shall be no pyramiding of overtime rates for the same hours worked.
An employee's scheduled hours of work shall not be construed as a guarantee of a minimum or maximum hours of work.
Employees shall be deemed to be on duty during any period falling within their scheduled hours of work.
16
18.09	overtime shifts shall be shared equitably over a period of three months among qualified employees who normally, work in the place where the overtime work is required.Standard hours shall conform to the provisions in the Canada Labour Code.
18.10 Time worked in excess of the standard hours shall be compensated for at the rate of time and one-half (1JL/2) the classification rate for the work performed". "
18.11 An employee occupying on a permanent basis a job classification coming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit (CUPE 2046), as described in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certification Order, will, subject to paragraph 2 hereof, be paid at premium overtime (1 1/2T) rates on the actual minute basis when directed by management to attend Planned Maintenance or Cost Analysis meetings continuous with their regular rostered shift hours.
18.12	For purposes of the above, premium overtime (	1 1/2T)
rates will commence only after the employee has completed pre-shift and post-shift reports as required by Management.
(a) Employees called back to work on irregular hours other than immediately following or immediately prior to their regularly rostered shift will be credited with four (4) hours actually worked. For the purpose of this clause, the expression "immediately following” an employee’s regularly rostered shift means that the employee has not left the premises, and the expression "immediately prior" to an employee's regularly rostered shift means less than two (2) hours before the employee's shift.
(b) Employees who are called back to work within the meaning of Clause (a) of this Article and who subsequently work more than four (4) hours and not more than eight (8) hours will be credited with eight (8) hours actually worked. Premium overtime provision applies in accordance with the Canada Labour Code.
18.13	Employees required by management to attend Arbitration Hearings or Investigations arising out of circumstances initiated by another union, shall be paid on an hour-for-hour basis and such time will be considered as time actually worked by that employee.
17
18.14	In the application of this provision there shall be no over-lapping of hours paid.
18.15	Overtime shall be paid within two (2) pay periods of its occurrence.
18.16	An employee who works an overtime shift on Sunday landj _ directly siipfirylsejs. datal paiid-employees receiving double / time payment for work performed on Sundays shaTl^be paid ^ at dourb±€“~ the regular classification rate when so
employed. This double time payment is, however, wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his regular rostered shifts in that particular week.
18.17	Under no circumstances shall an employee be entitled to payment of the weekend premium in respect of Sundays for which he has been paid double the regular classification rate.
35-HOUr Week Positions
The standard hours of work shall continue to be thirty-five (35 hours per week consisting of five (5) straight time 7-hour shifts where concurrently applicable.
18.18	Banking of Overtime
Banking of overtime should be permitted on the following basis:
i)	Overtime of less than eight (8) hours cannot be banked.
ii)	The maximum amount of overtime that an employee can bank in a calendar year is eighty (80) hours.
iii)	Once an employee has utilized forty (40) hours of banked overtime in a calendar year, the employee will not be entitled to make use of any additional banked overtime if his/her absentee rate for the year, as of the date time off is requested, exceeds ten percent (10%).
iv)	Requests to use banked overtime must be made one (1) week in advance of the time to be taken off and are subject to approval by the site head or designate.
V) Time off will only be granted where operational requirements permit.
vi) Banked overtime which is accumulated but not used in a calendar year will be paid out by the Corporation not later than January 15 th of the following year.
18
ARTICLE 19	PREMIUMS
19.01	SHIFT PREMIUM*
tLl -7 o
u> 1 v - ’y
a)	Subject to clause b (below) shift differentials shall be paid at the rate of $0,175 per hour for each hour worked between 3:00 pTfin Hnd 11:00 p.m. and ^0.350 per hour for eacfr^lioilr--Worked between 11: 00 p.m. ''and 7:00 a.m.
b)	Shift differential shall not apply to:-
(i)	Overtime of less than four (4) hours.
(ii)	The calculation of holiday and vacation pay.
(iii)	Regular rostered day shift hours.
19.02
WEEKEND PREMIUM	^ ^ l# 3 “ 2- 0 $ / 0 0 0
a) Subject to the conditions enumerated below, an employee shall receive,-a, .premium,, of ten dollars ^$20^00)) caaifflr his regular classification rate for eadT'of those shifts between 7:00 a.m. on Saturday to 7:00 a.m. on Monday for which he is regularly scheduled and actually works the full eight (8) hours.
(i)	The ten dollar ($10.00) premium will not be
paid if the weekend shift is a shift in excess of his five (5) normal shifts for that week.
(ii)	The ten dollar ($10.00) premium will not be paid if the weekend shift otherwise entitles the employee to premium overtime pay.
19.03	UNDERGROUND PREMIUM	.
£20- I
a)	A premium of $3.00 over 'eight (8) hour shift shall be paid to employees who are employed underground in the Corporation’s several collieries.
b)	The underground premium shall not form part of any classification rate.
* Railway Despatchers will continue to be paid shift differentials at the rate of $0.3 0 per hour for each hour worked between 3:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m., and $0,350 per hour for each hour worked between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. as a 'red-circled premium’.
ARTICLE,
20.01
20.02
20.03
20.04
20.05
ARTICLE
21.01
21.02
19
20
ASSIGNMENTS
When an employee is assigned by management to perform for a temporary period the duties of a higher rated job within the bargaining unit, he shall be paid the rate for the job from the first day of such assignment provided such employee is fully qualified to perform same.
When an employee is assigned by Management to perform for a temporary period the duties of a lower rated job (while his own job is working) he shall be paid at his regular rate of pay* If the employee requests such an assignment, he shall receive the rate covering the job.
Wage Protection
An employee who is assigned to or bumps into a position, as a result of a temporary workforce reduction, is entitled to receive his regular rate of pay for up to twenty (20) working days.

Any employee who is permanently-, ass^hed to a lower rated job shall receive the rate of the ,job from the first day of such assignment. ' /
When members of the bargaining unit are appointed by management to temporarily replace management personnel, the monthly rate of pay shall be fifteen percent (15 %) more than the current monthly salary of the employee so temporarily reassigned. The employee shall also be paid at the appropriate overtime rate for all overtime shifts and overtime hours worked in excess of the normal work day hours associated with the management position. The overtime payment shall be calculated on the employee's regular rate of pay. Any such overtime must be authorized by the manager or his designate. It is anticipated that overtime under this provision would be paid only in extraordinary circumstances.
21
MILEAGE EXPENSES
Employees eligible to receive automobile mileage allowance will be paid in accordance with the Corporation’s policy on mileage allowance.
Employees covered by this Collective Agreement who are required to work any rostered shifts at areas other than their rostered location will be paid applicable mileage rates in accordance with the Corporation’s policy.
21.03
ARTICLE
22.01
22.02
22 . 03
22.04
22.05
ARTICLE
23.01
23.02
20
Security Checks
The Corporation will pay the sum of $2.00 per trip or applicable mileage rate, whichever is the greater, to employees who, throughout their shift, are required to use their own vehicles to carry out security checks.
22
JURY/CROWN WITNESS DUTY
6} Bjt'f
An employee summoned for jury/crown wit^iess^du-ty^and who is required to lose tinie^TTfoitl his regular scheduled shift(s) as a result thereof shall be paid for actual time lost with a maximum of one basic day's (8 hours) pay at the straight time rate applicable to the classification last performed for each day lost, less the amount allowed him for duty for each day, excluding allowances paid by the Court for meals, lodging, or transportation, subject to the following requirements and limitations.
The Corporation shall be liable for payment only in those cases where the Court recognizes attendance and compensates the employee for same. In all cases, the Corporation’s financial liability shall be governed by the limitations contained in paragraph .01 above.
An employee must furnish the Corporation with a statement from the Court of allowances paid and the days on which such duty was performed.
The number of working days for which jury/crown witness duty shall be paid is limited to a maximum of forty-five (4 5) days in any calendar year.
No jury/crown witness duty pay will be allowed for any day for which the employee is in receipt of annual vacation pay or general holiday pay.
23 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE_____________________________________
In the event of the death of a spouse or a child, an employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave on any of his regularly rostered shifts, exclusive of overtime, that occur during the four (4) days immediately following the death.
In the event of the death of a parent, step-parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or any relative permanently
23.03
23.04
23.05
23.06
ARTICLE
24.01
24.02
ARTICLE,
25.01
21
residing* in employee's household or with whom the employee resides, the employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave on any of his regularly rostered shifts that occur during the three (3) days immediately following the death.
♦Includes foster child (1989)
Any employee referred to in Clauses .01, .02 (above) who has completed three consecutive months of continuous employment shall be entitled to his bereavement leave with pay at his regular rate of wages for his regular hours of work.
An employee who qualifies under .01 above shall be entitled to (2) additional days for travel, if bereavement is outside Cape Breton, and such time off is without pay.
Such leave, without pay, may be extended due to exceptional circumstances at the sole discretion of management.
In the event an employee is required to cease work during one of his rostered shifts due to bereavement in the family, he will not be docked for the unworked portion of that shift and that day will not be counted as a bereavement day.
24
MATERNITY LEAVE
Maternity Leave without pay shall be granted after twelve (12) month of continuous service from the date of employment. Upon the advice of her physician, the employee may request leave starting at the beginning of her seventh month. The employee shall return to work within two (2) moanths following delivery. Upon written request, this period may be extended. The employee will return to her fUrmer-pbSirtTdFI in the Corporation wi£hwttt loss o£.. sepiority.
k/#'0C^
Up to two (2) months' leave without pay shall be granted to an employee on request for the adoption of a child.
a
25
VACATIONS
Paid vacation shall be granted on the following basis:
1 2/3 days for each twenty (20) days worked. Maximum vacation entitlement shall be twenty (20) days in any calendar year.
22
Employees will be paid at their current rates of pay.
25.02 Vacations will be scheduled to least interfere with the
operation of the business of the Corporation and will conform as near as possible with the general period of vacations scheduled by the Corporation. It is understood that, insofar as is practicable, the Corporation will schedule the fourth week of vacation, for employees qualified to receive same, during the period between Christmas Day and the first day of the New Year.
25.03	Vacation credits are established in the calendar year
immediately preceding the year in which the vacation is normally due to be taken.
If, work
vacation period(s) and not enough time remains in the calendar year for the employee to take his earned vacation in that year, the vacation days not taken shall be put over to the calendar year immediately following and taken at a time mutually convenient to the employee and management.
25.05	For purposes of calculating vacation pay, days worked
shall mean paid vacations days, paid statutory holidays, absences from work due to on-the-job injury (for which Workers' Compensation is paid), paid bereavement leave, jury duty absences, authorized absences for union business except those granted under Article 16.04, or an illness or accident for which benefits are received under Article 27 of this Agreement. In no case shall an employee receive credit for more than sixty-six (66) days in any calendar year in respect of the two last-named benefits. Where an employee has no earnings, the aforementioned sixty-six	(66)	days shall not be
applicable.
25.06	An employee while on his/her annual vacation, becomes
hospitalized* shall have the right to be placed on sick leave and these days shall be counted as sick days and not vacation days.
* Hospitalized - The employee must actually be admitted to hospital and the Nova Scotia Health Services Commission must recognized such admission by paying for a full days stay in the hospital. The Corporation has the right to solicit such information from the employee or the hospital.
25.07	Any employee leaving the services of the Corporation
after working a full year since his last vacation period
25.04 Vacations will be taken _in the _y ear they fall..due
however, employees are requested by-management to
23
will be given four weeks salary. Any employee leaving the Corporation’s service after working less than a full year since his last vacation period will, providing he is not dismissed for cause or leaves the service of his own accord and for reasons beyond his control, be given 1 2/3 days salary for each twenty (20) days worked since his last vacation period.
25.08	Vacation pay will be at the employee's current rate of
pay when he takes his vacation. If an employee works a part year on datal pay and reverts to a salary, he will draw as his vacation pay the datal rate or the salary rate whichever is greater.
25.09	Applicable to Railway Dispatchers fformer RCTC Members)
Effective	January 1. 1989, the following Railway
Dispatchers	will retain their	present vacation
entitlement while members of the bargaining unit until date of retirement or termination.
The qualifications and terms of coverage for vacation entitlement will be in accordance with the remainder of this Article except that employees with more than four weeks entitlement will have entitlement pro-rated (Clauses . 01 and .07). The employees are:-
Check No
9514
9515
9516 9518 9522 9525 9529
9531
9532
ART I CLE__^_____
Name
A1lister MacDonald Lonnie Grant Clarence Miller Lester Merrill Andy Newell Bruce MacKeigan Ed Provoe Mark Appleton Joe Woodford
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Vacation Entitlement
6 weeks 6 weeks 6 weeks 6 weeks 5 weeks 5 weeks 4 weeks 4 weeks 4 weeks
A. Holiday Entitlement
26.01
Paid Holidays shall be granted as follows:
1.	New Years Day
2.	Good Friday
3.	Victoria Day
4.	Miners' Memorial Day
5.	Canada Day
6.	Labour Day
7.	Thanksgiving Day
8.	Remembrance Day
9.	Christmas Day
10.	Boxing Day
11.	Floating Holiday
24
26.02	(a) If the Government of Canada designates Heritage Day or such other day as a General Holiday, the day so designated by the Government shall be substituted for the Floating Holiday. The Floating Holiday will be celebrated under the following conditions:
(b)	The employee must make application to Management at least two weeks in advance of the designated day.
(c)	Eligibility for payment of ’additional holiday’ shall be determined in the same manner as at present for statutory holidays, counting back from the first day of the Christmas vacation in the previous calendar year.
(d)	Eligible employees who do not use the Floating Holiday entitlement prior to December 1st in the year to which entitled, will have payment included in the Christmas week pay.
26.03 When any of the above holidays fall on Sunday or Saturday, the day observed by the Federal Government in respect of its employees as the holiday shall be recognized. If in the Province of Nova Scotia, a holiday is more generally recognized than any one of the holidays specified above, the signatories hereto will substitute such holidays.
26.04 If a statutory holiday falls within the employee’s vacation period, the employee is entitled to an additional day’s pay provided he was entitled to pay for such holiday. The additional day may be taken as either
1,	an extra day’s pay: or
2.	an extra vacation day; or 3 . a floating holiday
Such day is to be taken at a date mutually agreed to between the employee and management under .08 of this Article.
26.05	The holiday rate of pay for employees qualified to receive same shall be one day at the straight time classification rate of the majority of shifts paid in the week in which the holiday occurs. In cases where an equal number of shifts have been worked at different rates or where several rates are paid during the week in which the holiday occurs the rate of pay for the holiday shall be at the average daily straight time classification rate earned in that week.
25
26.06	The service qualification for payment of any of the holidays specified above is as follows:
(a)	The employee must have been in the active employ of the Corporation for at least thirty (30) calendar days.
(b)	The employee must have been entitled to wages for at least five (5) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday concerned.
Employees shall be paid vat double ,the regular classification rate for all '"Tfiine worked on a paid statutory holiday. The double time payment is, however, wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his remaining regular rostered shifts during the week in which the holiday occurs. In addition to the foregoing, employees shall be paid for the statutory holiday provided the requisite conditions for such payment are met by the employee.
26.08	Banking Holidays
Employees who are rostered to work on any of the statutory holidays (excluding the floating holiday) may elect to bank the premium hours Payable, to be taken as time off, with pay, at a later date on the following conditions:-
(a)	the maximum time to be banked is forty-eight (48) hours.
(b) time must be 'banked' in amounts of eight (8) hours.
(c) time off will only be granted where operational
requirements permit.
(d)	requests to bank time must be in writing on approved forms.
(e)	request for time off must be made at least one full week in advance. Approval of the site head or designate is required.
ARTICLE 27
SICK LEAVE
27.01	General - Incumbent Employees Prior to January 1. 1982
(a)
In the event of an employee being absent from work as a result of personal disability due to sickness or
26
accident, such employee, while in the employ of the Corporation, shall continue to receive his normal rate of pay exclusive of premium pay, shift premium, or any special allowance to the extent that he is entitled according to the applicable provision of this Collective Agreement and this Article.
(b)	Salaries paid under this provision of this Article shall be subject to normal and statutory deductions and further reduced by the amounts of any Workers' Compensation payments that may be made to an employee with respect to the period in which such salary is drawn. For each day off work and receiving Workers' Compensation payments, one-quarter (1/4) day sick credit will be deducted from the employee's credits. Under no circumstances does an employee on compensation have his payments made up to his salary for more than sixty-six (66) working days, or his current entitlement as per Article 27.03(b) in any calendar year.
The Corporation will pay full salary while an employee is on Workers' Compensation for a maximum period of:
(1)	six (6) weeks;
(2)	until Workers' Compensation payments are received
by the employee: or
(3)	until exhaustion of sick leave entitlements; whichever comes first.
(c)	Salary continuation is not applicable to self-inflicted
illness or injury. Any employee who absents himself from work due to sickness or accident may be required to submit to an examination by a doctor appointed by the Corporation.
An employee unable because of sickness or injury to attend at work at the beginning of a new calendar year and having worked the last rostered shift prior to Christmas vacation may receive the unused portion of his sick leave left from the previous year.
(d)	In all absences, in order to qualify for payment under
this section, the employee’s attending physician must fill out a Medical Disability Certificate supplied by the Corporation. Such certificate must be submitted to the manager or department supervisor within three working days after return to work. Management reserves the right to investigate any claim of absence to ensure authenticity, and may contact the employee's physician for further information on the employee's illness or injury.
27
(e)	To qualify for sick leave payment in a particular calendar year, the employee must have worked a minimum of five rostered days during that calendar year.
(f)	Any employee who is off work due to sickness or personal disability at the beginning of a calendar year, and such absence from work is a continuation from the previous calendar year, then the employee will be entitled to use that portion of unused sick credits from the previous calendar year, provided that no employee shall be paid for more than 66 sick days in any calendar year.
27.02	Sick Leave Credit
Employees who have been members of the bargaining unit prior to the signing of the Memorandum of Settlement will be granted sick credits on the following basis:
Service Requirement
Under 12 months of continuous service
Over 12 months of continuous service but under 60 months of continuous service
Over 60 months of continuous service but under 180 months of continuous service
Over 180 months of continuous service
1 day for each month of service
22 days during a calendar year
44 days during a calendar year
66 days during a calendar year
03 sick Leave - New Bargaining Unit Employees Subsequent to January 1. 1982
(a) An employee incumbent in a position with the bargaining unit for six (6) months continuously from his most recent entry into the unit may earn sick leave credits as per Article 27.03(b) during the six months. The sick leave earned shall be credited to the employee at the expiry of the six months, provided he has worked all of his rostered shifts during the six month period.
Sick leave credits shall accumulate as a privilege at the rate Of 1 1/4 wnrlfing days for every twenty (20) regulariyscheduled 8-hour shifts worked to a maximum of 66 days. Such sick leave shall be paid at the employee's regular rate of pay for an eight (8) hour shift straight time: and further provided that the employee has received prior permission from the manager or designate to be absent from any remaining regularly scheduled shifts in
28
respect of that month effective from the date of his appointment as a member of that bargaining unit.
(c)	Any salary paid under Article 27.03 shall be subject to the requirements of 27.01(b).
(d)	An employee receiving Workers’ Compensation as a result of injury or accident shall have such Workers’ Compensation benefits augmented by pay from the Corporation at the rate of one-quarter (1/4) an earned sick day for each day while on Workers’ Compensation, provided that the combined benefits payable under this section shall in no case exceed the employee’s pay for a regularly scheduled eight (8) hour shift after statutory deductions.
(e)	In no case shall payment of the combined benefit exceed
100% of his regular salary after statutory deductions. Payment of this combined benefit shall be limited to not more than three (3) months in any twelve (12) month period commencing from the date of disability. In the event of such disability, payments will commence on the first day of layoff on the first disability and on the second day of layoff in all succeeding periods of disability.
(f)	In the event of hospitalization, benefits will be paid
from the first day of layoff provided that the employee has sick leave days to his credit. In this section, 'hospitalization' means that the employee has been admitted to a hospital for a 24-hour period and that the stay in the hospital has been paid for by the Nova Scotia Health Services Commission.
(g)	Within three (3) days of his return to work, an employee must submit to the Corporation a Medical Disability Certificate as supplied by the Corporation and completed by the employee’s attending physician. The Corporation reserves the right to request a medical examination of the employee by a physician appointed by the Corporation and in the event of hospitalization, the Corporation reserves the right to obtain further information on the nature and extent of the illness and recovery from the employee, his physician and/or the hospital.
(h)	It is the intention of this plan to assist employees with their expenses while sick or injured.
(i)	Sick leave shall not be paid concurrently with Unemployment Insurance Commission benefits.
29
ARTICLE 28	DEATH BENEFIT FOR PENSIONERS
28.01	It is agreed that subject to the exceptions outlined in this Article, there will be a deduction of ten ($0.10) cents from each employee and the amount so deducted shall be added to a Corporation payment of $750.00 and paid to the beneficiary upon the death of any person who retired prior to November 1, 1965, under the provisions of the 192 3 Pension Plan provided that such persons had no benefits under the Current Group Life Insurance Plan. For the purposes of this Article, such employees covered shall be those who were on the books of the Dominion Coal Company Limited or Old Sydney Collieries Limited but off work at November 1, 1965, and who became deceased. The beneficiary shall be considered eligible for the Death Benefit as outlined herein.
If the Government accepts responsibility and a Compensation Pension had been paid, or if the former employee is on a 'burnt-out' pension, there will be a ten ($0.10) cent deduction from the employees but no $750.00 contribution by the Corporation.
ARTICLE 29	COMPASSIONATE LUMP SUM PAYMENT
29.01 The Corporation shall, subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, make a compassionate lump sum payment not to exceed $25,000.00 to the widow and wholly dependent children of any employee who is fatally injured at his work place.	|
29.02	The maximum sum payable to the widow shall be $10,000. In cases where the deceased employee has no surviving widow, then the principal sum of $10,000.00 which would otherwise have been payable to the widow shall be made to the legal guardian, if any, for the benefit of the deceased employee’s wholly dependent children.
29.03	The maximum sum payable in respect to wholly dependent children shall be $15,000.00 calculated on the following basis:-
(a)	For each wholly dependent child $5,000.00 to a maximum of three children or $15,000.00 total.
(b)	In cases where there are more than three wholly
dependent children the amount per child shall be determined by dividing $15,000.00 by the total number of wholly dependent children.
29.04
ARTICLE
30.01
30.02
ARTICLE
31.01
31.02
31.03
31.04
30
Any dispute or question which may in the future arise from the interpretation of meaning of the work employee, fatal injury, legal guardian, work place, widow, or wholly dependent child, shall be resolved in a context as determined by the Workmen's Compensation Board of Nova Scotia.
30	RETIREMENT ALLOWANCE
A Retirement Allowance of $1,078.68 (January 1, 1993) will be paid to each active employee on the date of his normal retirement (age 65) and to employees on compassionate disability benefit or ERIP recipients on reaching 65 - (not applicable to P.R.L.).
The retirement allowance of $1,078.68 shall be escalated annually for cost-of-living increases commencing January, 1993, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for COSt-of-living increases, and, if the aforementioned formula shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the retirement allowance is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
31	SAFETY APPAREL__________
The Corporation shall provide, on an as needed basis, safety apparel to active employees, subject to the following conditions:
Safety coveralls, safety work boots, and leather work gloves shall be worn by employees at all times in work areas designated by Management.
The Corporation shall provide up to the following maximum per year:
a)	Two (2) pairs of coveralls to each surface employee.
b)	Three (3) pairs of coveralls to each underground employee.
c)	One (1) pair of low cut leather work boots or two
	(2) pair employee.	knee	high	rubber	work	boots	to	each
d)	Two (2) employee.	pairs	of	leather	work	gloves	to	each
Replacement items shall only be provided free of charge by the Corporation on the basis that damaged or worn-out items to be replaced are turned in to the Corporation.
31
31.05 The low-cut leather work boots and leather work gloves shall be the kind normally stocked in the Corporation’s warehouse.
31.06	Safety apparel shall not be provided for employees in
office of other sedentary positions.
31.07	For the purposes of this Article, the following are not
deemed to be active employees:
a)	Persons not working and in receipt of any retirement or disability benefits.
b)	Persons who for any reason have missed more than ninety (90) days' work during the year in which they request safety apparel.
NOTE:	The above clauses do not apply to security guards
and to nurses who are covered by the following:
Security Guards Only:
31.08	1 Pea Jacket
1 4-Seasons Jacket 1 Winter Hat 1 Summer Hat
1	Rain Coat
2	Pants
3	Shirts 1 Tie
Condemned Only Condemned Only Condemned Only Condemned Only Condemned Only Every Year Every Year Every Year
31.09	The Corporation will pay the sum of $110.00* in 1987 and in 1988 to employees covered by the bargaining unit so as to enable them to purchase a regular type and colour police boot, flashlight, work gloves etc., and batteries as required.
31.10	The aforementioned annual amounts shall be pro rated on a monthly basis in the contract year in respect to security personnel who are not actively employed for the full contract year in the Security Department.
31.11	Nurses Only
One hundred dollars (100.00)* per year for uniform purchase shall be provided to each nurse, pro-rated over the calendar year. The one hundred dollars shall be paid in May of each year. Part-time nurses shall receive one (1) lab coat during the term of the Collective Agreement.
* This amount will be increased at a rate equivalent to the general wage increases granted by this Agreement.
32
ARTICLE 32________ 5% CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN
Eligibility
Optional to full time employees of the Corporation who commenced employment prior to Februray 22, 1987. Mandatory as a condition of employment for all new* employees to the bargaining unit on or after February 22, 1987.
*Excepting those employees of the former bargaining units who became members as a result of the vertical/horizontal review/merger.
Normal Retirement
Age
Employee
Contributions
5% of earnings, jin addition to Canada Pension Plan contributions).
Corporation Contributions
Equal to the total 1 of /the employees contributions, plus any additional contributions required Itq/ keep the Plan actuarially sound, ( in ^addition to Canada Pension Plan contributions).
Pension at Retirement
(a) Future	In addition to the Canada Pension Plan,
Service 2% of career earnings while a participant of the ' Plan, adjusted for cost-of-living increases.*
(b) Past	Employees in Union Local 204 6 who retire from
Service	from the Corporation on their normal or early
retirement date and are entitled to pension under the new Contributory Plan maintained by
33
the Corporation, shall receive under the NonContributory Plan a basic pension benefit, if \ any, based on years of continuous service j prior to joining the Contributory Pension ) Plan.
The basic pension benefit to be paid monthly is equal to fourteen dollars and seventy-five ($14.75) (as of July 1, 1992) for each year of continuous service up to a maximum of 25 years, adjusted for cost-of-living* increases. However, no employee having less than 10 years of continuous service shall be entitled to any pension benefit under the non-contributory plan.
Dependents Benefit
(a) Before 5 years payment of earned pension with cost-Earliest of-living* increases (or employee Retirement contributions with interest if greater).
Age
(b) After	Balance of 5 years payment of pension with
Earliest cost-of-living increases*.
Retirement If dependent is spouse 60% of earnedj Age	pension for life
Total and permanent disability Waiver
A participant who becomes disabled may apply to the Pension Board for a waiver of contributions during the period of disability.
Termination
(a) Cash
Refund
Service
employee
contributions with interest on contributions made before January 1, 1987.
(b) Vesting Full vesting will apply after h)years of service and attainment of age fortTy-five (45) for service prior to January 1, 1987. For service after January 1,	1987, full vesting
shall apply after two years service.
Any employee who does not elect to join the Contributory Plan will have a pension at retirement under the Non-Contributory Plan. The basic benefit under the Non-Contributory
34
Plan is equal to fourteen dollars and seventy-five cents ($14.75) (as of July 1, 1992) per month for each year of continuous service up to a maximum of 25 years.
* Cost-of-Living Increases
The pension at retirement and/or t>fe dependent benefit shall be subject tO\ anafcial cost-of-living increases on July lsrt/ of each year equivalent in rate to the rate of increases provided by way of annual adjustments in retirement under the Canada Pension. Plan.
The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Corporation’s pension plans. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the content of the registered plan texts.
ARTICLE 33	CONTRACTING OUT_______
33.01	It is understood and agreed that the Corporation will not contract out work that is currently and normally preformed by members of CUPE 2046. There will, however, be exceptions, as outlined below, but it is also understood and agreed it is not the intent of the Corporation to lay off members as a direct result of such contracting out.
The Corporation will not contract out work except:
(1)	when technical or managerial skills are not available from within the Corporation; or
(2)	where sufficient employees, qualified to perform work, are not available; or
(3) when essential equipment or facilities are not available and cannot be made available from Corporation-owned property at the time and place required: or
(4)	where the nature or volume of the work is such that it does not justify the capital or operating expenditure involved: or
(5)	the required time of completion of the work cannot be met with the skills, personnel, or equipment within the Corporation: or
35
(6)	where the nature or volume of the work is such that undesirable	fluctuation in	employment	would
automatically result.
The conditions set forth above will not apply in emergencies, to items obtained from manufacturers or supplies nor to the performance of warranty work
In addition, the Corporation will advise the Union representatives involved, in writing, as far in advance as is practicable of its intention to contract out.
NOTE:	RE SECURITY GUARDS ONLY
In order to provide job security for members of the bargaining unit, work, or services presently performed or hereafter assigned to the collective bargaining unit shall not be subcontracted, transferred, leased, assigned, or conveyed, in whole or in part, to any other plant, person, company, or non-union employees.
ARTICLE 34
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
34.01	For the purposes of the Collective Agreement, 'technological change' shall have the meaning defined in the Canada Labour Code.
34.02
34.03
For the purpose of the technological change provisions of the Collective Agreement, an 'incumbent' shall mean any employee with more than ten (10) years compensated service from last date of hire.
No incumbent shall be laid off from the Corporation due to technological change; provided that any incumbent, if required by the Corporation due to any technological change, shall submit to roasonahl s i-et.raininq by or under the auspices of the Corporation aitalLl accept transfer to any operating site within the Corporation.
34.04	Nothing in these provisions shall be construed as a waiver by an employee, whether incumbent or otherwise, of his right under the Canada Labour Code to make an application in respect of technological change.
ARTICLE 35
SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
35.01	A Supplementary Unemployment Benefit of sixty-five dollars and ninety-two cents ($65.92) per week will be paid by the Corporation in the event of downtime in a colliery or department under the following terms and
conditions:
36
(1)	The downtime must not have resulted in either directly or indirectly from any action of any employee covered by this Agreement.
(2)	The employee’s gross earnings for the weekly pay period must not have exceeded a sum equal to three times the basic classification rate in effect at the time of the downtime.
(3)	The Supplementary Unemployment Benefit will not be paid concurrent with the payment of paid sick leave under Article 27 or monthly income insurance under Appendix A of this agreement or to employees on Workers’ Compensation. (For the purpose of this section only, paid sick leave shall also include benefits received under the Unemployment Insurance Sickness Benefit regulations.)
(4)	Employees who are already receiving benefits from the Unemployment Insurance Commission are not eligible to receive Supplementary Unemployment Benefit.
(5)	Payment of Supplementary Unemployment Benefits will be limited to a maximum period of twelve (12) months.
(6)	Downtime shall not include legal holidays or vacation days.
35.02 Escalation
The Supplementary Unemployment Benefit of sixty-four dollars and seventy cents ($64.70) per weekly pay period, as described in the Collective Agreement, shall be escalated annually for cost-of-living increases commencing January 1, 1994, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases, and if the aforementioned formula by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the Supplementary Unemployment Benefit is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
ARTICLE 36_____________ SNOWSTORMS
36.01	This will confirm the understanding reached during negotiations concerning the policy which is to be adopted
37
with respect to employees who, because of sever snow conditions, either report late for work or are unable to report at all.
36.02	All employees are expected to make every effort to report for work on time, notwithstanding snow or storm conditions. However, in the circumstances quoted above, it is agreed that employees, who arrive late for their assignments, but report prior to the mid-point of their Zi tour of duty, will be paid for the day provided such late 'JqZ.k-arrival is directly attributable to the aforementioned ^ severe snow conditions. Employees who report after the mid-point of their tour of duty will be paid one-half day.
3 6.03 Employees referred to in .02 above, who only receive payment for one-half day may be provided the opportunity, during the immediate pay week, to work additional hours at straight time rates in order to make up part or all of such lost time.
36.04	With respect to employees referred to in .02 above, who miss the shift and are paid for the full day, will only be obligated to make up such lost time during the thirty (30) days immediately following the work day missed.
36.05	The above policy only applies when the proper municipal authorities have requested the public to leave their motor vehicles at home and local public transportation services are not operating due to snowstorm.
ARTICLE__37
MISCELLANEOUS
37.01	Tax Deductions
The Corporation agrees to deduct property taxes when so authorized, in writing, by the employee.
37.02	Credit Union Deductions
The Corporation agrees that deductions will be made for the Credit Union when so authorized, in writing, by the employee.
37.03	Price of Coal to Employees
Employees covered by this Agreement shall be governed by the terms negotiated between the Corporation and the
38
major bargaining unit. In any event employees who have been laid off and still have recall rights shall be extended credit on the purchase of coal to a maximum of six (6) tons.
37.04 Overtime Meal
37.05
A member of the bargaining unit required to work more than two hours of overtime as an extension of his shift and has not been asked to do so prior to the start of that shift will be, when and where practicable, provided with a lunch, the cost of which shall be determined by Corporation Policy. .— .... ....... .....
£n the everrt, it is impractical to provide a meal to an employee so (Qualified (such as restaurant closing hours during back shift, etc.) , then the employee will be
provided with a meal chit to the value Of $7.5f).
m..
Correspondence
All correspondence between the parties, arising out of this agreement or incidental thereto, shall pass to and from the Director of Employee Relations and the Secretary of the Union and the National Representative.
37.06 Pay Days
(A)	The Corporation shall continue a pay system whereby employee weekly wages will be deposited to an account at the banking institution of the employee’s choice.
(B) A statement of the employee’s weekly earnings and deductions will be provided to the employee at the worksite.
37.07 New Classification
Should a new classification be created within the bargaining unit, as indicated in the Certification Order, during the term of this Agreement, the employer and the union will jdecide the rate, of pay. r'. liZJt'hirncj "TTerein /^j, - z ''"“prevents the empToyeTT”^	such positions and
. having employees working in such positions during such negotiations. The salary when determined will be retroactive to the date on which the employee commenced work in that classification. In the event that the parties are unable to agree on the rate of pay, then the rate shall be determined by arbitration.
Bulletin Boards
37.08
ARTICLE
38.01
38.02
38.03
38.04
ARTICLE
39.01
39
Bulletin Board space shall be provided or made available for use by the Union. The Union shall submit all notices to the Director of Employee Relations, or his designate, for approval prior to posting on such boards.
38_____ _____________________NURSES______________
Standby Pay
When requested by Management, a nurse on stand-by on her scheduled day off, or a nurse on call, shall be compensated on the following basis:
January 1, 1989 to December 31, 1992 -Medical Examinations
$20.00
Nurses required by the Corporation to have medical tests, etc., shall have same paid for by the Corporation. The results of medical tests, etc., or any other medical information on a nurse shall be handled in strict confidentiality.
Professional Standards and Development
The Corporation shall be responsible for a continuous inservice program focused on the needs of the Health Services Branch. In this regard, the Corporation shall assist each Certified Occupational Health Nurse and permanent part-time nurse in her efforts to keep her certification current by making available 75 hours of continuing education over a five (5) year period, in conformity with the continuing education criteria set down by the American Board of Occupational Health Nurses and the Canadian Council for Occupational Health.
The Corporation will pay RN dues and COHN(C) membership in accordance with the Corporation's policy on professional dues and membership.
It is recognised and agreed that nurses function within the framework of the Canadian Nurses Association Code of Ethics.
39 DESPATCHERS ONLY
Despatchers will not be required to do clerical work, not associated with their normal job functions, that will interfere with the proper handling of their trains.
40
3 9.02 Despatchers will not be required to issue train orders to any unqualified person except in cases of emergency.
39.03	Despatchers will only be required to call train crews in cases of emergency.
ARTICLE 40
JOB POSTINGS
40.01	Management agrees to inform the Union whenever a job vacancy of a permanent nature occurs in any of the job classifications within the bargaining unit as listed in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certification Order.
40.02
zif-j
Where a job vacancy of a permanent nature occurs in any surface job classification or in the position of methane degassing supervision, a iob vacancy notice stating the required qualifications and other r lneivt information ^illbfi posted by Manage-posting will call ToF ajpplxcations' from current members of the bargaining unit. It will be posted for a five day period at the worksite where the vacancy exists in order that the interested supervisory personnel in the bargaining unit at the worksite where the vacancy exists may apply for the same. When posting the positions of Car Shop Foreman, Section Foreman, or Railway Dispatcher, the Corporation will provide reasonable training to successful applicants.
40.03	Should there be no successful applicant from the worksite where the vacancy exists, the Corporation shall post the job vacancy notice at all work sites for an additional five (5) day period for CUPE 2046.
40.04	When a vacancy in an underground supervisory position is about to be filled by the permanent appointment of a nonbargaining unit member to the bargaining unit, management will advise the site representatives of CUPE 2046 of its intentions so that they may request, if they so desire, that consideration be given to the transfer of an existing bargaining unit member(s) into the vacancy which is about to be filled.
ARTICLE 41	SALARIES
41.01	Effective January 1, 1989, 4% lump sum payment on gross earnings for the year 1989.
Effective January 1, 1990, all basic rates of pay are increased by 4%.
ARTICLE
42.01
42.02
ARTICLE
43.01
ARTICLE
44.01
41
Effective January 1, 1991, all basic rates of pay are increased by 4%.
Effective January 1, 1992, all basic rates of pay are increased by 5.0%.
All classifications will be paid a supervisory premium of $2.00 per shift worked.
42	OBLIGATIONS_____________
All provisions and terms of this Agreement are hereby mutual agreed to by and between the Cape Breton Development Corporation and all the employees of Local 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees, and signed by the Representative of the parties hereto, who have been duly authorised to execute the same on behalf of Local 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees.
The fulfilment of this Agreement and that of any subsequent joint agreements entered into is guaranteed by the Canadian Union of Public Employees, the Officers of Local 2046 and the Operators, and it is their duty to see that all such agreements are carried out both in the letter and in the spirit.
43	NEGOTIATION DURING TERM OF AGREEMENT
It is agreed during the term of this Agreement, to the \ extent Federal Legislation permits, and upon written \ application by the Union, the parties will convene meetings for the purpose of renegotiation of wages and ■■ fringe benefits.
44	DURATION
This agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the period January 1, 1993, to March 31, 1995, and shall be renewed automatically from year to year^thereafter, unless one of the parties gives to the other party, within 90 days of the expiry date of the agreement, notice of its intention to terminate or seek amendments to this agreement. After receipt of such notice, both parties shall meet for the purpose of negotiating amendments to this agreement. During the negotiating period, this agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Signed on behalf of:
42
CANADIAN UNION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES “ LOCAL 2046
Date:
43
Appendix
GROUP INSURANCE
i) Employees will be able to retain their group coverages during strikes and lockouts, provided the Union pays the entire premium for same in accordance with the established payment! structure.
ii)
The Corporation agrees to review its group coverages, including the LTD plan, and to make such changes as may be required, if any, to bring same into conformity with current laws regarding pregnancy and maternity leave.
The LTD plan should be amended to provide coverage for illness due to alcoholism. ,
lyT
2J-1
Jan 1/90 Jan 1/91 Jan 1/92
72-Ol^Group Life Insurance -J 4 C“ |Acc. Death & Dismemberment Retired Life Ins (Employee) Dependant Life Ins - Wife
1	sp i t a 1
705 ^^ospital

- Child
21,000
21,000
3,000
2,500
1,250
22.500
22.500
3.500
2.500 1,250
23.500
23.500 4,000 2,500 1,250
Ambulance
Eye Care
7 0 Cr ‘bo
Private Room Accommodation ^$ Out-Patient Charges $25.00 $40.00 per Insurance Year
-t
January 1, 1990 (Frames and lenses once every two years to maximum of $125.00)
January 1, 1991 increase to $150.00
Prescription Drugs:
The maximum per person in any insurance year for analgesics, hypnotics, sedatives, and tranquilizers shall be increased to $300.00. iff however, due to extenuating medical circumstances, this amount is insufficient, the carrier will, on application, extend the maximum amount.
Diabetic and Colostomy Supplies:
Eligible employees will receive diabetic and colostomy supplies under the terms of the Group Insurance Policy in effect on the date of ratification.
Monthly Income Insurance:
44
y(5p ~0£ o
Oiom 0
60% of insured earnings ’at date of disability reduced by income from other sources. Maximummonthly payment is $1,500.
Dental Care:
,	a Corporation jpa_id^a&i£^dfiBLtal
overage i no-fudes" 'sp'duse and dependant dental plan to the employer will not exceed $13.QV per month per eligible employee. The amount covered by the Corporation dental plan, after the normal deductible, will match dentists' fee in the current year as follows:	January 1, 1990 - $700. per year; January 1, 1991, -
$800. per y^ar; January 1, 1992 - $900 per year.
The cost jbf the Insurance and Welfare Benefits Plan Luding UDental Care Plan) will continue on a shared (—40% employer/employee basis.
’The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Group Insurance Plan.	All questions	of	application or
interpretation must	be	resolved in	the	content of	the
insurance contract between Great West Life Assurance Company and the Cape Breton Development Corporation.
Appendix B
45
ADJUSTMENT OF RATES
The following method for the adjustment of rates will apply during
the life of this Agreement and will expire at the expiration of the
Agreement.
1.	All upward adjustments will be effective from January 1, 1990, if memorandum is signed prior to that date.
2.	Incumbents who have been placed in positions at their request or as a result of selection from job postings will have rates reduced as of February 1, 1990.
3.	Incumbents other than those covered in (2) above will retain their current salary until the rate for the position exceeds their current salary from which point their salary will increase as per the increase in rates. This will apply to former RCTC members as well.
4.	While those covered by (3) above are waiting for the rate
for their position to exceed their current salary they will be paid lump sums equal to the negotiated percentage salary increases for the period.	These payments will be
calculated on actual earnings exclusive of premiums and incentive bonuses and will be paid quarterly.
SCHEDULE OF RATES
CANADIAN UNION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES - LOCAL 2046
Jan 1/89 Jan 1/90 Jan 1/91 Jan 1/92 Position____________________________4.0%_______4.0%_____5.0%
Area Supervisor Prod. Supervisor'A'
767.00
732.00
797.68
761.28
829.59
791.73
871.07
831.32
Const/Degass Suprv. Elect Const Suprv -Line Crew Ironworker Suprv. Const. Supr-Carptry Build. Supt. 2 Sites
716.00
716.00
716.00
716.00
716.00
744.64
744.64
744.64
744.64
744.64
791.73
791.73
791.73
791.73
791.73
831.32
831.32
831.32
831.32
831.32
Prod Suprv. ’ B'
Dev. Suprv.
Remote Mon. Contr Const. Suprv Ch Mech Supr-VJCPP Ch Instr Supr-VJCPP Railway Despatchers Mech. Supr. 'A'
716.00	744.64
716.00	744.64
716.00	744.64
716.00	744.64
716.00	744.64
716.00	744.64
716.00	744.64
716.00	744.64
774.43	813.15
774.43	813.15
774.43	813.15
774.43	813.15
774.43	813.15
774.43	813.15
774.43	813.15
774.43	813.15
46
wall Setup & St Supr Elect. Suprv -Colly (Underground Only) Suprv 'A'-Cent shops Mech Supr. 'B'
Shop Foreman Colly Transpt Suprv.
Mat Coord-Lingan Maint. Planner Gen.Suprv-VJCPP Car Shop Suprv Loco Shop Suprv Suprv Mobile Trans Suprv 1B1-C. Shops Sfce Foreman-Colly Mine Rescue Suprv Suprv Invtry Cont. Build Supt-1 Site Section Foreman Gen Foreman(Stores) Pier Foreman*
LBC Supervisors Suprv Accts Pay Bead Nurse Whse Foreman Nurse
Security Guard
716.00
716.00
701.00
701.00
701.00
701.00
701.00
701.00
701.00
701.00
701.00
701.00
686.00 686.00 686.00 686.00 686,00 668.00 668.00 668.00 668.00 661.00 661.00
639.00
593.00
562.00
*Rate Includes Consideration for
744.64
744.64
729.04
729.04
729.04
729.04
729.04
729.04
729.04
729.04
729.04
729.04
713.44
713.44
713.44
713.44
713.44
694.72
694.72
694.72
694.72
687.44
687.44 664.56
616.72 584.48
Documenting
774.43
774.43
758.20
758.20
758.20
758.20
758.20
758.20
758.20
758.20
758.20
758.20
741.98
741.98
741.98
741.98
741.98
722.51
722.51
722.51
722.51
714.94
714.94 691.14 641.39 607.86
Ships
813.15
813.15
813.15
796.11
796.11
796.11
796.11
796.11
796.11
796.11
796.11
796.11
796.11
779.08
779.08
779.08
779.08
758.63
758.63
758.63
758.63
750.68
750.68 725.70 739.97 638.25
The following classification rates will be increased to the $732.00
equivalent rate (as adjusted by this agreement) on Jan 1, 1991.
Construction/Degassing
Electrical Construction
Ironworkers Supervisor
Construction Supervisor - Carpentry
Building Superintendent - Two Sites
Maintenance Supervisor - Pier
The following classification rate will be increased to the $716.00 equivalent rate (as adjusted by this agreement) on January 1, 1992. Supervisor "A" - Central Shops
The following classification rate will be increased to the $701.00 equivalent rate (as adjusted by this agreement) on January 1, 1992. Supervisor "B” - Central Shops
47
APPENDIX 'C'
COLLIERY SUPERVISOR 'A' AND 'B' RATES
Mechanical Supervisor "A" rate would be paid when supervisor is assigned the direct responsibility of maintenance and installation of production equipment such as wall face equipment and main belt line. Mechanical Supervisor "BH rate would be paid when the supervisor is assigned as a general mechanical supervisor for the whole mine and may at times be involved in repair of production equipment at various areas of the mine. He could be second supervisor when a supervisor receiving the "A" rate is also working.
Construction Supervisor "A” rate would cover construction supervisors in the collieries, such as Prince, No. 2 6 and Lingan. Construction Supervisor "B" rate would be employed in 1-A and 1-B airways where basic airway maintenance is carried out. Also, if at some point in time, a second construction supervisor was required at the major operations, the second supervisor would be a Construction Supervisor "B" rate.
Production Supervisor "A" rate would be a full fledged production supervisor capable of running the whole wall face section. Production Supervisor "B" rate would be a new supervisor in the section who would require some assistance from the other supervisor in the section. Upon permanent assignment to a production wall face, the supervisor shall be paid the Supervisor ’’B" rate. After working ninety (90) starts as such, the supervisor shall be promoted to the Production Supervisor "A" rate. Also, anybody filling in would be a Supervisor "B" rate.
November 3, 1981
48
1994/10/04
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. ___1
Mr. Michael Baker Vice-President, CUPE, Local 2046 Suite 102, Commerce Tower 15 Dorchester Street Sydney NS B1P 5Y9
Dear Sir:
Re:	Incentive Plan Coverage
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto during negotiations on the above-mentioned matter.
An employee occupying, on a permanent basis, a job classification coming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit (CUPE 2046), as described in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certification Order dated February 3, 1978^ and Order No. 661 dated November 27,	19.(T7.*. will,
^sdfiject to the terms and conditions of the Corporation's Incentive Plan, continue to be eligible for coverage under the said Plan during the term of the Collective Agreement between the parties dated on January 1, 1989.
6
/
If you concur with the above, please so indicate in the space provided below.
J7 Gordon MacLean rice-President, Human Resources
I Concur,
/M
Michael Baker Vice-President, CUPE 2046
49
1994/10/04
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 2
Mr. Michael Baker Vice-President, CUPE 2046 Suite 102, Commerce Tower 15 Dorchester Street Sydney NS B1P 5Y9
Dear Sir:
RE I ARTICLE 2,02
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto during negotiations.
An employee occupying on a permanent basis a job classification coming within	the jurisdiction of the
bargaining unit (CUPE Local 2046) as described in the CLRB Certification Order dated February 3, 1978, will exercise the full authority and responsibility required by the act of supervision.
Solely for the purpose of clarifying Article 2.02 of the Collective, and without limiting the generality thereof, the Union and the Corporation agree that the customary duties and responsibilities as a supervisor referred to in said Article 2.02 include -
ensuring compliance with legislation and the Corporation's safety policy, standard procedures, and practice;
-	directing and controlling the workforce including the administration of corrective discipline and the monitoring of absences from work: and
-	meeting the production requirements of the Corporation in a cost efficient manner.
i
50
2
The Corporation and the Union will meet within one month of the signing of an amended Collective Agreement to discuss matters of relevance with regard to this Letter of Understanding.
'J. Gordon MacLean
Vice President, Human Resources
I Concur
Michael Baker, Vice President CUPE, Local 2046
51
1994/10/04
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3
Mr. Michael Baker Vice-President, CUPE 2046 Suite 102, Commerce Tower 15 Dorchester Street Sydney NS B1P 5Y9
Re:	Two Consecutive Days Off in
Each Standard Week
Dear Sir:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date, between the parties signatory hereto, to the effect that the Corporation recognises the desirability of granting employees two (2) consecutive days off in each work week, whenever possible, provided a sufficient number of supervisors are available in order that operational requirements can be efficiently and economically met.
If you agree with the foregoing, please indicate in the space provided below.
Yours truly,
'. Gordon MacLean Vice President, Human Resources
I concur
Michael/Baker, Vice President
CUPE, Local 2046
i
52
1994/10/04
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 4
Mr. Michael Baker Vice-President, CUPE 2046 Suite 102, Commerce Tower 15 Dorchester Street Sydney NS B1P 5Y9
Dear Sir:
REi SECURITY GUARDS
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date respecting Article 26.03, as contained in Conciliation Commissioner Spencer's "Recommendation of Settlement" to the effect that notwithstanding the Corporation's agreement to delete this provision, it must be abundantly clear that this in no way constitutes a waiver of the Corporation’s rights to protect its property and goods at any time within the bounds of the law.
Please indicate your concurrence in the space provided below. Yours truly,
Gordon MacLean
Vice President, Human Resources
I Concur
Michael Baker, Vice President
CUPE, Local 2046
53
1994/10/04
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 5
Mr. Michael Baker
Vice President, CUPE, LOCAL 2046 Suite 102, Commerce Tower 15 Dorchester Street Sydney NS B1P 5Y9
Dear Sir:
RE:	ACCIDENTS AND ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto during negotiations on the above-mentioned matter.
In order to provide a work safe and efficient operation, i is desirable to reduce the incidence of injuries at the wor place. To that end, the Union will give its utltlOS cooperation to the Corporation in any program designed to reach this goal through effective accident investigation and safe work programs to improve our current position.
If you concur with the above, please indicate in the space provided below.
Yours truly
Gordon MacLean
Vice President, Human Resources

!
I concur
Michael Baker, Vice President
CUPE, Local2046
54
1994/10/04
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 6
Mr. Michael Baker Vice-President, CUPE 2046 Suite 102, Commerce Tower 15 Dorchester Street Sydney NS BlP 5Y9
Dear Sir:
RE: EARLY RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PLAN
This letter confirms the understanding reached today between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matters.
The Corporation is prepared to offer early retirement to those employees fifty-six (56) or over, with seventy-five (75) or more points (both of which conditions must be satisfied by December 31, 1994), and whose position would not have to be filled. The level of payment and benefits would be the same as in the most recent early retirement program.
Vice President, Human Resources
Yours truly,
JJ. Gordon MacLean
I concur
Michael Baker, Vice President
CUPE, Local 2046
I
55
1994/10/04
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 7
Michael Baker, Vice-President CUPE, Local 2046 Suite 102, Commerce Tower 15 Dorchester Street Sydney NS B1P 5Y9
Dear Sir:
RE:	OVERPAYMENTS
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Corporation agrees to collect any overpayment to employees at the same rate and over the same period of time as that during which the overpayment has been made up to a maximum of six (6) months.
Yours truly


^T. Gordon MacLean
Vice President, Human Resources
I Concur
Michael Baker, Vice President
CUPE, Local 2046
56
1987/05/01
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 8
Mr. Lonnie Grant Chairman
Rail Canada Traffic Controllers Dear Mr. Grant:
Re; New System of Traffic Control - Devco Railway
The Corporation intends to change its method of traffic control on the Devco Railway. Within sixty (60) days of ratification a Joint Union - Management Task Force will be organised to develop the new system. The members of the Task Force will be selected equally from the bargaining unit and from Management of the Railway.
The system will be submitted to the C.T.C. for approval. Following C.T.C. approval, the Task Force will assist in the implementation of the system.
The existing method of work and operations will not be changed until the new system is approved by the C.T.C. Should revision to the traffic control system necessitate a reduction in the number of positions, no involuntary lay-off measures will be employed by the Corporation. Any work force reduction will be carried out through attrition.
Yours truly,
william C. MacLellan
General Manager, Transportation