COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (COAL DIVISION)
AND
CANADIAN UNION CF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES LOCAL 2046
EFFECTIVE JANOAKY 1, 1985 TO DECEMBER 31, 1986
0O(?7(S;/)
INDEX
Page
Preamble
Article 1 Article 2 Article 3 Article 4 Article 5 Article 6 Article 7 Article 3
Article 3 Article 1 0 Article 11 Article 12 Article 13 Article 14 Article 15 Article 16 Article 17 Article 18 Article 19 Article 20 Article 21 Article 22 Article 23
Article 24 Article 25
Article 26 Article 27 Article 28 Article 29 Article 30 Article 31 Article 32 Article 3 3 Article 34 Article 35 Article 36 Article 37
Outside
-	Security of Employment
-	Regularity of Work , ,
-	Management
-	Union Activities , , .
-	Union Security ....
-	Recognition , . , , ,
-	Employment Status , .
-	Transfers and Seniority Bargaining Unit , , ,
■ Grievance Procedure ,
-	Arbitration .........
-	(Reserved) .........
-	Labour-Managemerit Bargaining Relationsi
-	Correspondence , , , .
-	Statutory Holidays' . ,
-	Bereavement Leave , ,
-	Sick Leave
-	Group Insurance Benefits
-	Vacations
-	Leave of Absence , , ,
-	Jury Duty .......
-	Compassionate Lump Sum Payment
-	Alcoholism and Drug Addiction
-	No Grievance to be Taken Up, When Mine is Idle In Violation of Agreement
-	Strikes, Lockouts, Etc. . ,
-	Safety and Wealth .........
-	Miscellaneous , ...........
-	Hours of Work, Overtime , .
-	Salaries and Classifications
-	Assignments , , ...........
-	Call-Back Pay .......
-	Shift Differentials , , , .
-	Weekend Premium , .........
-	Underground premium , . . .
-	Retirement Allowance , , . ,
-	Death Benefit for Pensioners
-	Obligations ........... ...
-	General * Negotiation during Term
-Duration .......................
ps
of Agreement
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
17 1 7
17
18
19
20 22 22 23 23 23
23
24 24
27
Appendix A -............. . .
Letters of Understanding , ,
28

PREAMBLE
WHEREAS the Cape Breton Development Corporation was set up because of the long and severe decline of the coal industry in Cape
Breton, and
WHEREAS Devco and the Union agree that this decline can now be stopped, but to achieve this will require greatly increased productivity and a basis for reducing the operating losses paid by th Treasury of Canada and thereby justifying the investment of Federal funds in the maintenance, improvement and development of mines, and
WHEREAS Devco and the Union share the objective of improving wages and working conditions to the maximum extent compatible with security of employment, and
WHEREAS Devco and the Union recognize that such security of employment depends on good working practices to utilize machinery efficiently, enhance safety and yield high productivity,
THEREFORE Devco and the Union make the following agreement:
1
ARTICLE 1 - SECURITY OF EMPLOYMENT
1.01	Any man who was on the books of Devco on 1st of April, 1968 ,
will not be removed from the books unless offered reasonable alternative employment, subject to the following conditions.
(a)	The above undertaking in no way limits the right of Devcor because of its responsibility for the safe and efficient conduct of operations, to suspend or dismiss any man for cause.
(b)	The above undertaking in no way qualifies the responsibility cf Devco temporarily to reduce or suspend a particular operation or part of an operation-if such action is necessary to the satisfactory conduct and development cf the mining operations as a whole within the funds provided by the Parliament of Canada.
(c)	The above undertaking in no way qualifies the right of Devco to lay off men if abnormal circumstances so require, but Devco will make every reasonable effort to ensure that a full forty hours' work in each week is available to all men wbo comply with the rules of regular attendance described in the next clause.
ARTICLE 2 - REGULARITY OF WORK
2.01	Devco and the Union agree that conscientious and regular work is essential to the agreed objectives of maintaining employment at good wages, and both parties therefore recognize that absenteeism is a serious obstacle to their obj ectives.
2.02	Accordingly, Devco and the Union agree that it is a condition of continued employment that no man-will be absent from a scheduled shift, other than for reasons (such .as sickness, compensable accident or welfare) already known to Devco, unless he gives the supervisor/department manager's office notice of nis intended absence, along with a reason satisfactory to management, at least one hour before the starting time of the scheduled shift.
2.03	A man who has been absent, for any reason other than one where the precise period of the absence was arranged in advance, must ensure that the supervisor/department manager's office is informed of his intended return to work at least two hours before the starting time of the shift, and if such notice has not been given he will be sent home.
2
2,04	Any man who fails to give notice of absence, or who fails to
provide a reason satisfactory to management for his absence, will be given warning of suspension, and on repetition will be liable to suspension, and any man who is absent on three occasions without notice or without satisfactory reason, as aforesaid, 'is liable to dismissal.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT
3.01	The union recognizes the right of the Corporation to operate
and manage its own business. The Union further recognizes the right of the Corporation to hire, promote, demote, transfer, assign, lay off and suspend or otherwise discipline, and discharge any employee for just cause. Any employee who thinks he has been unjustly dealt with by the Corporation may consider he has a grievance and may have it dealt with in the manner hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION ACTIVITIES
4.01	The Union and the employees covered by this Agreement shall not conduct Union activities during working hours except as in this Agreement, expressly provided, nor shall Union meetings of any kind be held at any time on the premises cf the Corporation without prior written consent of the Corporation.
4.02	If the National Representative of the Union servicing this bargaining unit or his nominee wishes to contact one of the union representatives at work concerning some urgent inplant problem relating to the Agreement, he shall 'make such request through the Industrial Relations Officer or Department Bead and, providing such meeting will not interfere with the operations, arrangements will be made for such Union representatives to confer in private, when facilities are available, at the premises of the Corporation.
4.03	The Union will provide the Corporation with the names of the Departmental Stewards and of the Local Chairman and will provide the name of any alternate in the event of substitutions.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY
5.01	Every employee who is a rnanber of the Union at the effective
date of this Agreement, or who becomes a member of the Union during the life of the Agreement, shall continue to be a member in good standing of the Union during the life of the Agreement, provided he continues to be eligible as a member.
3
ARTICLE
5.02
5.03
5.04
5.05
5.06
ARTICLE
6,01
- UNION SECURITY Cont'd
During the life of the Agreement such employee shall have deducted from his wages all dues, levies, fines and assessments authorized by and in accordance with the Constitution of the Union and/or By-Laws.
An employee not a member of the Union, but who occupies a position with the bargaining unit, shall after ninety (90) working days during the term of the Collective Agreement become a member of the bargaining unit or cease to perform work that is under the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit.
All new employees occupying positions within the bargaining unit shall have deducted from their wages, within thirty (30) days of employment, a sum equivalent to Union dues in such amount as may from time to time be assessed to their members according to its Constitution and/or By-Laws.
At the end of each month, the Corporation shall remit by cheque the total of the weekly deductions made, together with a relevant statement. In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment that an employee already has made to the Union, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the provisions of the Union Constitution and By-Laws, refunds will be made to the employee by the Union.
Dues Receipts
At the same time that Income Tax (T-4) slips are made available, the employer shall type on the amount of Union dues pai d by each Union member in the previous year.
The Union shall indemnify the Corporation and hold it harmless against any and all liability which may arise by reason of the checkoff by the Corporation of Union dues, levies, fines and assessments from employees' wages in accordance with this Agreement.
- RECOGNITION
The Corporation recognizes the Canadian Union of Public Employees and its Local 2046 as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent for the employees, described in the Order of Certification dated February 3 , 1 978.
The Union recognizes that Local 2046 (C.U.P.E.) is comprised of supervisory employees and it shall in no way restrict any employee in the discharge of his customary duties and responsibilities as a supervisor.
6.02
4
6*03	No employee covered by this Agreement shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written agreement which may conflict with the terms of this contract.
ARTICLE 7 - EMPLOYMENT STATUS
7.01	The Corporation shall retain the right at all times to maintain an efficient working force. An employee means an employee coming within the bargaining unit covered' by this Agreement and who has satisfactorily completed his probationary period. In the case of a lay-off in a colliery or department, the employees retained shall be those who have been employed longest with the Corporation and who have the qualifications to perform the work in a manner satisfactory to Management. Recall to work following such a lay-off shall not occur until after consultation between both parties and shall be in the order of Corporate seniority provided the employee has the qualifications to perform the work in a manner satisfactory to Management.
7.02	Loss of Employment Status Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, an employee's employment with the Corporation shall be terminated upon any one of the following:
(a)	He is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated.
<b>	He resigns in writing and does not withdraw within two days.
(c)	K is absent from work in excess of five (5) working day6 without sufficient cause or without notifying the employer, unless such notice was not reasonably possible.
(d)	He fails to return to work within fifteen (15) calendar days following a layoff and after being notified by registered mail to do so, It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the employer informed of his current address. An employee recalled for casual work or employment of specified short duration at a time when he is employed elsewhere shall not lose his recall rights for refusal to return to work.
(e)	He is laid off for a period of two years.
(f) Absence extended beyond an authorized vacation period beyond a leave of absence granted by the Corporation where the reasons given for such extended absence are not satisfactory to the Corporation.
ARTICLE 8 - TRANSFERS AND SENIORITY OUTSIDE BARGAINING UNIT
8.01
ARTICLE
9.01
No employee shall be transferred to a position outside the
bargaining, unit without his consent,. If an employee is , transferred to a position outside of the bargaming unit, he
shall retain his seniority accumulated up to the date of leaving the unit, but will not accumulate any further seniority. Any employee shall have the right to return to a position in the bargaining unit during his trial period, which shall be up to a maximum of one (1) year. If an employee returns to the bargaining unit, he shall, wherever possible, be placed'on a job classification in the colliery or department from where he was last transferred which is consistent with his seniority and qualifications.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A grievance shall be a difference of interpretation of this Agreement or the violation of the provisions of this Agreement. Every grievance shall be subject to the grievance procedure set out hereunder:
STEP 1:	When an employee has a grievance he shall within
five (5) working days of the occurrence of the incident giving rise to the grievance, file the grievance in writing on the form attached hereto as "SCHEDULE Y" with the Shift Manager or Department Head, who shall provide him with an answer, in writing, within two (2) working days.
STEP 2:	Should the written answer given by the Shift
Manager or Department Head not be acceptable to the grievor, then the grievor and his steward shall meet with the Employee Relatiorts Manager assigned to the colliery or department and attempt to resolve the grievance within five (5) working days. The Employee Relations Manager shall give his decision, in writing, within seven (7) working days of receipt of the alleged grievance.
STEP 3:	If the decision of the Employee Relations Manager
is not acceptable to the grievor, the alleged grievance shall be referred to the grievance committee, and if supported by the grievance committee shall be referred to the Colliery General Manager/Department Manager, or his designate, within seven (7) working days of receipt of the decision at Step 2,
The Colliery General Manager/Department Manager or designate shall meet with the grievance committee and the national Representative of the Union and shall give a decision, in writing, within seven (7) working days of receipt of the grievance.
6
9.02
9.03
9.04
9.05
ARTICLE
10.01
Where there are grievances pending from more than one operating site at the same time, then the Colliery General Manager/Department Manager or designate shall meet at the principal office of the Corporation's Coal Division, during the third week of the month, with the grievance committee and the National Representative of the Union to resolve the grievances. Decisions on all such grievances at this Step 3 shall be rendered within seven (7) working days of this meeting.
if the decision of the Colliery General Manager/Department Manager or his designate on any grievance at Step 3, is not acceptable to the grievance committee and the National Representative of the Union, the matter may then be referred to arbitration. If it is decided to submit the grievance to arbitration, notice must be given to the Colliery General Manager/Department Manager within fourteen (14) working days of the receipt of the decision of the Colliery or Department Manager in Step 3.
In the case of a discharge or where a dispute involving a question of general application or interpretation occurs, Step 1 may be by-passed.
The Corporation may institute a grievance by delivering the same, in writing, to the President of Local Union 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees, and the president shall answer such grievance within seven (7) working days. If the answer is not acceptable to the Corporation, the Corporation may within ten (10) working days from the day the President gives his answer, give ten (10) working days' notice to the president of the Local Union 2046t Canadian Union of Public Employees, of its intention to refer the dispute to arbitration.
The time limits, as herein expressed, map be extended by mutual agreement of the parties hereto.
For purposes of this Article 9 - Sundays, Saturdays, and holidays shall not be counted as working days.
10 - ARBITRATION
Notice in writing may be given by one party to the other, after the foregoing designated procedures have been exhausted, requiring the unresolved grievance to be submitted to arbitration. In such cases, the Corporation' and the Union shall each appoint an arbitrator within ten (10) days following the delivery of the written notice calling for arbitration, and these two (2) arbitrators shall endeavour to appoint a third, who shall be Chairman. If the Chairman is not selected by the first two named within fifteen (15) days after the delivery of the written notice,
- 7 -
then the Chairman shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour, Canada. Management and Union will then submit a written brief to the Arbitration Board.
10.02	The hearing shall be heard in Cape Breton unless the parties otherwise mutually agree in writing. Each party shall bear the remuneration and expenses, if any, of the arbitrator appointed by that party. The remuneration and expenses of the chairman, if any, shall be borne equally by both parties.
The Arbitration Board shall render a decision within thirty (30) days after presentation of written briefs, unless there is a mutual agreement on a postponement.
10.03	In the event a unanimous decision is not reached, the decision of the majority shall be the decision of the Board,
Should no majority decision be reached, the decision of the Chairman shall be the decision of the Board. In all cases, the decision shall be final and binding upon both parties, but in no case shall the decision alter, modify, or amend any part of this Agreement, or make any other decision inconsistent with specific terms of this Agreement.
The Board shall have the authority, in case8 where its decision is that the grievor was improperly discharged or suspended, to order his reinstatement.
Any voluntary abandonment of a grievance by either party to the Agreement will not prejudice the processing of a similar grievance entered at a later data provided that the Union has acknowledged, in writing, that they were so abandoning the grievance without decision.
10.04	Although 10.01 and 10.02 hereof provide for written briefs, this is not to be taken to mean that oral argument is precluded during the arbitral process.
ABTICIiB 11 - Reserved
JO
8
ARTICLE 12 - LABOUR-MANAGEMENT BARGAINING RELATIONS
12.01	Representation
The employer shall not bargain with or enter into any agreement with an employee or group of employees in the bargaining unit. No employee or group of employees shall undertake to represent the union at meetings with the employer without the proper authorization of the Union. In representing an employee or group of employees, an elected or appointed representative of the Union shall be the spokesman. In order that this may be carried OU:t.> the Union will supply the employer with the names of its officers. Likewise, the employer shall supply the Union with a list c£ its supervisory personnel with whom the Union may be required to transact business.
1 2,02 Union Bargaining Committee
A Union bargaining committee shall be elected or appointed and consist of not more than five (5) members of the Union. The Union will advise the employer of the Union nominees to the committee.
ARTICLE 13 - CORRESPONDENCE
13.01 All correspondence between the parties, arising out of this Agreement or incidental thereto, shall pass to and from the Director of Industrial Relations and the Secretary of the Union and the National Representative.
ARTICLE 14 - , STATUTORYHOLIDAYS
14.01
14.02
Ten	paid holidays shall be	granted as follows:	
1 ♦	New year's Day	6.	Labour Day
2,	Good Friday	7.	Thanksgiving Da;
3,	Victoria Day	8.	Remembrance Day
4.	Miners' Memorial Day	9.	Christmas Day
5.	Dominion Day	10.	Boxing Day
The Corporation shall pay one shift {8 hours' pay) to each eligible employee in lieu of an "additional holiday." If, however, the Federal Government establishes Heritage Day or some other day as a paid statutory holiday, then that day shall become the "additional day" and the eight hours' pay referred to above will constitute the pay for such "additional holiday".
14.03
14.04
14.05
14.06
ARTICLE
15.01
9 -
Eligibility for payment of "additional holiday" shall be determined in the same manner as at present for statutory holidays, counting back from the first day of the Christmas vacation. Until the "additional holiday" is named by Statute, the eight hours' pay will be included in the Christmas vacation pay.
When a holiday falls within the vacation period, the employee is entitled to an additional day provided he was entitled to pay for such holiday.
The holiday rate of pay for employees qualified to receive same shall be one day at the straight time classification rate of the majority of shifts paid in the week in which the holiday occurs. In cases where an equal number of shifts have been worked at different rates or where several rates are paid during the week in which the holiday occurs the rate of pay for the holiday shall be at the average daily straight time classification rate earned in that week.
Provisions governing statutory holidays shall conform to Part III of the Canada Labour Code, except that where the Code, in Section 5b.1(a), refers to "for at least fifteen days", this will be reduced to "five days".
Employees shall be paid at double the regular classification rate for all time worked on a paid statutory holiday. The double time payment is, however, wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his remaining regular rostered .shifts during the week in which the holiday occurs. In addition to the foregoing, employees shall be paid for the statutory holiday provided the requisite conditions for such payment are met by the employee.
An employee who works an overtime shift on Sunday at a surface or colliery location and directly supervises datal paid employees receiving double time payment for work performed on Sundays shall be paid at double the regular classification rate when so employed. This double time payment is, however, wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his regular rostered shifts in that particular week.
Under no circumstances shall an employee be entitled to payment of the weekend premium in respect of Sundays for which he has been paid double the regular classification rate.
15 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
In the event of the death of a spouse or a child, an employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave on any of his regularly rostered shifts, exclusive of overtime, that
10
occur during the four (4) days immediately following the death.
In the event of the death of a parent, step-parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or any relative with whom the employee permanently resides, the employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave on any of his regularly rostered shifts that occur during the three (3) days immediately following the death.
Any employee referred to in Article 15 who has completed three consecutive months of continuous employment shall be entitled to his bereavement leave with pay at his regular rate of wages for his regular hours of work.
15.02	An employee who qualifies under 15.01 above shall be
entitled to (2) additional days for travel, if bereavement is outside Cape Breton, and such time off is without pay.
ARTICLE 16 - SICK LEAVE
16.01	General - Incumbent Employees
(a) In the event Of an employee being absent from work as a result of personal disability due to sickness or accident, such employee, while in the employ of the Corporation, shall continue to receive his normal rate of pay exclusive of premium pay, shift premium or any special allowance to the extent that he is entitled according to the applicable provisions of this Collective Agreement and this article.
(b)	Salaries paid under the provision of this article shall be subject to normal and statutory deductions and further reduced by the amounts of any Workers' Compensation payments that may be made to an employee with respect to the period in which such salary is drawn. For each day off work and receiving Workers' Compensation payments, one-quarter day sick credit will be deducted from the employee's credits. Under no circumstances does an employee on compensation have his payments made up to his salary for more than 66 working days, or hlS current entitlement as per Article 16.03 (b) in any calendar year.
NOTE:	See Letter of Understanding No. 3.
(c)	Salary continuation is not applicable to self-inflicted illness or injury. Any employee who absents himself from work due to sickness or accident may be required to submit to an examination by a doctor appointed by the Corporation.
11
An employee unable because of sickness or injury to attend at work at the beginning of a new calendar year and having worked the last rostered shift prior to Christmas vacation may receive the unused portion of his sick leave left from the previous year.
(d)	In all absences, in order to qualify for payment under this section, the employee's attending physician must fill out a Medical Disability Certificate supplied by the Corporation. Such certificate must be submitted to the manager or department supervisor within three working days after return to work. Management reserves the right to investigate any claim of absence to ensure authenticity, and may contact the employee's physician for futhetr information on the employee's illness or injury.
(e)	To qualify for sick leave payment in a particular calendar year, the employee must have worked a minimum of five rostered days during that calendar year.
(f)	Any employee who is off work due to sickness or personal disability at the beginning of a calendar year, and such absence from work is a continuation from the previous calendar year, then the employee will be entitled to continue to use that portion of unused sick credits from the previous calendar year, provided that no employee shall be paid for more than 66 sick days in any calendar year.
(g)	An employee who, while on his annual vacation, becomes hospitalized shall have the right to be placed on sick leave and the actual days spent in hospital shall be counted as sick days and not vacation days.
16,02	Sick Leave Credit
Employees who have been members of the bargaining unit prior to the signing of the Memorandum of Settlement will be granted sick credits on the following basis:
Service Reg remen
UnaeL 1	t of
con i u	srvi ce
Over 12 months of continuous service but under 60 months of continuous service
Over 60 months of continuous service but under 180 months of continuous service
Over 180 months of continuous service
1 day for each month of service
22 days during a calendar year
44 .days during a calendar year
66 days during a calendar year
12
16.03
(a)
(b)
(o)
(<3)
(e)
(f)
Sick Leave - New Bargaining Unit Employees
An employee incumbent in a position with the bargaining unit for six (6) months continuously from his most recent entry into the unit may earn sick leave credits as per Article
16.03	(b) during the six months. The sick leave earned shall be credited to the employee at the expiry of the six months, provided he has worked all of h i s rostered shifts during the six month period.
Sick'leave credits shall accumulate as a privilege at the rate of 1 1/4 working days for every twenty (20) regularly scheduled 8-hour shifts worked to a maximum cf 66 days.
Such sick leave shall be paid at the employee's regular rate of pay for an eight (8) hour shift straight time; and further provided that the employee has received prior permission from the manager or designate to be absent from any remaining regularly scheduled shifts in respect of that month effective from the date of his appointment as a member of that bargaining unit.
Any salary paid under the provision of this section shall be subject to the normal and statutory deduction8 and further reduced where applicable by the amounts of any Workers' Compensation payments that may be made to an employee with respect to the period in which such salary is drawn.
An employee receiving Workers' Compensation as a result of injury or accident shall have such Workers' Compensation benefits augmented by pay from the Corporation at the rate of one-quarter an earned sick day for each day while otl Workers' Compensation, provided that the combined benefits payable under this section shall in no case exceed the employee's pay for a regularly scheduled eight (8) hour shift after statutory deductions.
Nate:	See Letter of Understanding tyo« 9.
In no case shall payment of the combined bene fib exceed 100% of his regular salary after statutory deductions. Payment of this combined benefit shall be limited to not more than three (3) months in any twelve (12) month period commencing from the date of disability. In the event of such disability, payments will commence on the first day of layoff or the first disability and on the second day of layoff in all succeeding periods of disability.
In the event of hospitalization, benefits will be paid from the first day of layoff provided that the employee has sick leave days to his credit. In this section, "hospitalization" means that the employee has been admitted to a hospital for a 24-hour period and that the stay in the hospital has been paid for by the Nova Scotia Health Services Commission.
13
(9) Within three (3) days of his return to work, an employee
must submit to the Corporation a Medical Disability Certificate as supplied by the Corporation and completed by the employee7 s attending physician. The Corporation reserves the right to request a medical examination of the employee by a physician appointed by the Corporation and in the event of hospitalization, the Corporation reserves the right to obtain further information on the nature and extent of the illness and recovery from the employee, his physician and/or ' the hospital.
(h)	It is the intention of this plan to assist employees with their expenses while sick or .injured.
(i)	Sick leave shall not be paid concurrently with Unemployment Insurance commission benefits.
ARTICLE 17 ~ GROOP INSURANCE BENEFITS
Group Life Insurance - for active employees only the following coverage is provided effective as of ratification date.
1985
Active Members	$ 13,500.00
Retired Life Insurance	2,000.00
(Employee)
Dependant Life Insurance - Wife 1,500,00
- Child 750.00
Jan. 1/86
§i5;ooo.oo
2/000.00
1 ,500,00 750,00
Hospital - Private Room Accommodation Hospital • Out-Patient Charges Ambulance - $25,00 per insurance year
Eye Care - Frames and lenses once every two years to maximum of $75,00
Prescription
Drugs -	Effective January 1, 1981, the current $100.00 maximum
per person in any insurance year for analgesics, hypnotics, sedatives and tranquilizers shall be increased to $200,00,
Drugs -	Eligible employees and dependants shall be limited to a
maximum purchase of $200.00 each year for tranquilizers. If, however, due to extenuating medical circumstances this amount is insufficient, the carrier will on application extend the maximum amount.
Monthly Income Insurance -
i«6otesKSa StK§inS8u?Sea?te of disability reduced
14
Dental Care - Employees will be provided a Corporation-paid basic
Dental Care Flan. This coverage includes spouse and dependant children. The cost of the Dental Plan to the employer will not exceed $13.00 per month per eligible employee. The amount covered by the Corporation Dental Plan, after the normal deductible, will match dentists' fees in the current year.
Life insurance includes accidental death and dismemberment provisions. The cost of the Insurance and Welfare Benefits Plan (excluding Dental Care Plan) will continue on a shared 60% - 40% employer/employee basis.
ARTICLE 18 - VACATIONS
18.01	Paid vacation shall be granted on the following basis:
- 1 2/3 days for each 22 days worked. Maximum vacation entitlement shall be 20 days in any calendar year.
Employees will be paid at their current rates of pay.
18.02	Vacations will be scheduled to least interfere with the operation of the business of the Corporation and will conform as near as possible with the general period of vacations scheduled by the Corporation. It is understood that, insofar as is practicable, the Corporation will schedule the fourth week of vacation, for employees qualified to receive same, during the period between Christmas Day and the first day of the New Year.
18.03	Vacation credits are established in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which the vacation is normally due to be taken.
18.04	Vacations will be taken in the year they fall due. If, however, employees are requested by management to work vacation period(s) and not enough‘time remains in the calendar year for the employee to take his earned vacation in that year, the vacation days not taken shall be'put over to the calendar year immediately following and taken at a time mutually convenient to the employee and management.
18.05	For purposes of calculating vacation pay, days worked shall mean paid vacation days, paid statutory holidays, absences from work due to on-the-job injury (for which Workmans' Compensation is paidl, or an illness or accident for which benefits are receivea under Article 16 of this Agreement.
In no case shall an employee receive credit for more than sixty-six (66) days in any calendar year in respect of the two Last-named benefits, Where an employee has no earnings, the aforementioned sixty-six (66) days shall not be applicable,
15
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	Union unct
Upon written request to the employer, an employee elected or appointed to represent the Union at conventions, or to attend executive and committee meetings of C.U.P.E., shall be allowed leave of absence without pay. This shall be limited to five (5) employees at any one time.
19.02	Leave of Ablsence for Full-time Union or Public Duties
(a)	The employer recognizes the right of an employee to participate in public affairs. Therefore, upon written request,
the employer shall allow leave of absence without pay or benefits so the employee may be a candidate in federal,
provincial or municipal elections.
(b)	An employee who is elected to public office, within the context of (a) of this article, shall be allowed leave of absence without loss of seniority during his term of office.
(c)	An employee who is elected or selected for a full-time position with the Union shall, provided he is assigned and residing within Cape Breton, be granted leave of absence without loss of seniority for a period of one year. Such
leave shall be renewed each year, cn request, during his term of office.
(d)	Employees granted leave of absence under Article 19.02 (b) (c) must return to work within (2) months after the expiration of such elected position of appointment.
ARTICLE 20 - JURY DUTY
20.01	An employee summoned for jury duty and.who is required to lose time from his regular scheduled shift(s) as a result thereof shall be paid for actual time lost with a maximum of one basic day's (8 hours) pay at the straight time rate applicable to the classification last performed for each day lost, less the amount allowed him for jury duty for each day, excluding allowances paid by the Court for meals, lodging or transportation, subject to the following requirements and limitations.
20.02	The Corporation shall be liable for payment only in those cases where the Court recognizes attendance and compensates the employee for same. In all such cases, the Corporation's financial liability shall be governed by the limitations contained in paragraph 20.01 above.
16
20.03	An employee must furnish, the Corporation with a statement from the Court of jury allowances paid arid the days on which jury duty was performed.
20.04	The number of working days for which jury duty pay shall be paid is limited to a maximum of twenty-eight days in any calendar year.
20.05	No jury duty pay will be allowed for any day for which the employee is in receipt of annual vacation pay or general holiday pay.
ARTICLE 21 - COMPASSIONATE LPHP 8DM PAYMENT
21.01 The Corporation shall, subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, make a compassionate lump sum payment not to exceed $25,000.00 to the widow and wholly dependent children of any employee who is fatally injured at his work place.
1,	The maximum sum payable to the widow shall be $ 10,000.00.
In cases where the deceased employee has no surviving widow, then the principal sum of $10,000,00 which would otherwise have been payable to the widow shall be made to the legal guardian, if any, for the'benefit of the deceased employee's wholly dependent children.
2,	The maximum sum payable in respect to wholly dependent children shall be $15,000.00 calculated on the following basis:
(a)	For each wholly dependent child $5,000.00 to a maximum of three children or $15,000.00 total.
(b)	In cases where there are more than three wholly dependent children the amount per child shall be determined by dividing $1 5,000.00 by the total number of wholly dependent children.
3,	Any dispute or question which may in the future arise from the interpretation or meaning of the ward employee, fatal injury, legal guardian, work Pi ace, widow or wholly dependent child, shall be resolved in a context as determined by the Workmen's Compensation Board of Nova Scotia.
17
ARTICLE 22 - ALCOHOLISM AND DRUG ADDICTION
22.01	Without detracting from the existing rights and obligations of the parties recognized in other provisions of this Agreement f the Corporation and the Union agree to cooperate at the colliery or department level in encouraging employees afflicted with alcoholism or drug addiction to undergo a coordinated program directed to the objective of their rehabilitation..
ARTICLE 23 - NO GRIBVAHCE TO BE TAKEN UP WHEN MINE IS IDLE IN VIOLATION OF AGREEMENT
23.01	Under no circumstances shall a grievance be taken up for
adjustment during a suspension of work in violation of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 24 - STRIKES, LOCKOUTS. ETC.
24.01	The Corporation agrees that there shall be no lockout and the Union and the employees agree that there shall be no strike, picketing, slowdown of work, either complete or partial curtailment of production or interference with the operations of the Corporation during the life of this Agree" ment or while negotiations for its amendment or renewal are in progress.
24.02	Upon receipt of any notice pursuant to Part V, Canada Labour Code from the Union of its intention to commence a lawful strike, representatives of the Corporation and the Union shall meet for the purpose of reviewing and determining the extent to which employees, coming within the bargaining unit, will be required to maintain services essential to the safety of the collieries and protection of the Corporation's product and property. Such employees shall not suspend work, but shall, when mining is suspended, fully protect all the Corporation's property under their care.
No member of the bargaining unit shall leave his place of work in any work stoppage situation without first ensuring that all equipment and/or machinery, etc. is shut down in a safe and orderly manner.
ARTICLE 25 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
It is i	ly ee t both management and nion wi
ate to the fullest possible extent	d the preven
tion of c d t and the	t on of et and Health
25.01
18
ARTICLE 26 - MISCELLANEOUS
26.01
26.02
26.03
26.4
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
Tax Deductions
The Corporation agrees to deduct property taxes when so authorized, in writing, by the employee.
Credit Union Deductions
The Corporation agrees that deductions will be made for Credit Union when so authorized, in writing, by the employee,
Price of Coal to Employees
Employees covered by this Agreement shall be governed by the terns negotiated between the Corporation and the major bargaining unit.
Safety Apparel
Effective January 1, 1 985 , the Corporation shall provide, on an as needed basis, safety apparel to active employees, subject to the following conditions:
Safety coveralls, safety work boots and leather work gloves
shall be worn by employees at all times in work areas designated by Management.
The Corporation shall provide up to the following maximum per year:
1.	Two (2) pairs of coveralls to each surface employee.
2.	Three (3) pairs of coveralls to each underground employee.
3.	One (1) pair of low cut leather work boots to each employee.
4.	Two (2) pairs of leather work gloves to each employee.
Replacement items shall only be provided free of charge by the Corporation on the basis that damaged or worn-out items to be replaced are turned in to the Corporation.
The low-cut leather work boots and leather workigloves shall be the kind normally stocked in the Corporation s warehouse*
Safety apparel shall not be provided for employees in office or other sedentary positions.
For the purposes of this clause 26.04, the following are not deemed to be active employees:
1 . Persons not working and in receipt of any retirement or disability benefits.
Persons who for any reason have missed more than ninety ar85^ during the year in which they request
2,
19
ARTICLE
27.01”
27.02
27.03
27.04
27.05
27.06
27.07
27.08
27.09
27.10
27.11
27 ~ HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME
The standard hours of work shall be forty (40) hours per
week consisting of five (5) straight time eight-hour shifts. The standard hours of work are exclusive of any time spent by the employee either before or after his eight (8) hour shift in making or receiving reports, both oral and written, as required by management. Shift starting times shall be arranged to suit the operating schedule of the collieries and/or departments.
It will be the responsibility of each employee to comply with the timekeeping system requirements and be at his place of work by the established shift starting time and not leave this place of work until the end of the shift. In the case of underground employees, the last conveyance will leave the surface at the shift starting time and it w i 11 be the responsibility of the employee to be enroute to his work place below the portal at that time.
During each eight (8) hours shift, an employee is entitled to a lunch break of one period of twenty minutes, at a time designated by management which will not prejudice the overall efficiency of the operation.
The hours of work shall normally be posted one week in advance of the schedule to be worked.
A member of the bargaining unit required to work four (4) to eight (8) hours of overtime as an extension of his shift and has not been asked to do so prior to the start of that shift will be, when and where practicable, provided with a lunch, the cost of which shall be determined by Corporation Policy.
There shall be no pyramiding of overtime rates for the same hours worked.
An employee's scheduled hours of work shall not be construed as a guarantee of a minimum or maximum hours of work.
Employees shall be deemed to be on duty during any period falling within their scheduled hours of work.
Overtime shifts shall be shared equitably over a period of three months among qualified employees who normally work in the place where the overtime work is required.
Standard hours shall conform to the provisions of the Canada Labour Code.
Time worked in excess c£ the standard hours shall be compensated for at the rate of time and one-half (li) the classification rate for the work performed.
20
27,12	An employee occupying on a permanent basis a job classification coming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit (C.U.P.E. 2046 ) , as described in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certification Order dated February 3, 1978, will, subject to paragraph two (2) hereof, be paid at premium overtime n£T) rates on the actual minute basis when directed by management to attend Planned Maintenance or Cost Analysis meetings continuous with their regular rostered shift hours.
27.13	For purposes of the above, premium overtime (1$T) rates will commence only. after the employee has completed pre-shift and post-shift reports as required by management. (a,) Employees called back to work on irregular hours other than immediately following or immediately prior to their regularly r>ostered.:shift will be credited with four (4) hours act aally worked. (b) Employees who are called back to work within the meaning of Clause (a) of this article and who subsequently work more than four (4) hours and not more than eight (8) hours will be credited with eight (8) hours actually worked. Premium overtime provision applies in accordance with the Canada Labour Code.
27,14	Employees required by management to attend Arbitration Hearings of Investigations arising out of circumstances initiated by another union, shall be paid on an hour-foi*-hour basis and such time will be considered as time actually worked by that employee. In the application of this provision there shall be no overlapping of hours paid.
-35-HOUR WEEK POSITIONS
The standard hours of work shall continue to be thirty- five (35) hours iper week consisting of five (5) straight time 7-hour shifts where concurrently applicable.
ARTICLE 28 - SALARIES AMD CLASSIFICATIONS
28.01	(a) Effective January 1 , 1985, all basic rates of pay per eight (8) hour shift are increased by 5,7%, Effective January 1 , 1 986, all basic rates of pay per eight (8) hour shift are increased by 5.5%,
<t>)	Re: Colliery Supervisory Classifications "A" and "B" rates: The distinction between the two classifications shall be based upon qualification, job scope and location of work
21
28 ,02
28.03
28.04
place as determined by management. For explanation- see Appendix "A" attached entitled "Colliery Supervisor "A” and "B" rates, dated November 3, 1581,
Should a new 'classification be created within the bargaining unit, as indicated in the Certification Order, during the term of this Agreement, the employer and the union will decide the rate of pay. Nothing herein prevents the employer from filling such positions and having employees working in such positions during such negotiations. The salary when determined will be retroactive to the date on which the employee commenced work in that classification, provided that nothing herein contained shall alter the intention of the Canada Labour Code.
Employees shall be paid by cheque every Thursday. If a pay day should coincide with a designated paid holiday, the employee shall be paid on the preceding working day.
Management agrees to inform the Union whenever a job vacancy of a permanent nature occurs in any of the job classifications within the bargaining unit as listed in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certification Order dated the 3rd of February, 1578.
Where a job vacancy of a permanent nature occurs in any of the job classifications listed below, a job vacancy notice stating the required qualifications and other pertinent information will be posted by Management for a five (5) day period at the colliery where the vacancy exists in order that the interested supervisory personnel in thg bargaining unit at the colliery where the vacancy exists may apply for the same. The job classifications and locations are as follows:
1 . Communication Supervisor
2.	Bank Foreman
3.	Surface Foreman
а.	Supervisor
5.	Transportation Supervisor
б.	Planner, Planned Maintenance
7,	General Foreman
8.	Foreman
3. Building Superintendent
10* Office Services'Supervisor 11 # Chief Clerk
12.	Construction Supervisor
Lingan Colliery Lingan Colliery No. 26 Colliery Mullins Coal Bank Surface Operations No. 26, Lingan, and Prince Collieries (3 positions)
Central Stores Central Stores (2 Positions)
No. 26, Lingan and Prince Collieries ( 3 Positions)
Azar Building
Central Stores
Nos. 1A and IB Airway
- 22
13,	Supervisor, Pit Bottom
14.	Mine Rescue Supervisor 15 . Shop Foreman
16.	Supv., Methane/Degassing
17,	Pier Foreman
18,	Elect, Supervisor
19.	-, Meeh. Supervisor
No. 26 Colliery No. 26, Ling an and Prince Colliery No. 26, Lingan and Prince Collieries International Pier International Pier International Pier.
ARTICLE 29 - ASSIGNKBWTS
29.01	When an employee is assigned by management to perform for a temporary period the duties of a higher rated job within the bargaining unit, he shall be paid the rate far the job from the first day of such assignment provided such employee is fully qualified to perform same.
When an employee is assigned by management to perform for a temporary period the duties of a Lower rated job (while his own job is working) he shall be paid at his regular rate of pay. If the employee requests such an assignment, he shall receive the rate covering the job.
An employee who is permanently assigned to a lower rated job shall receive the rate of the job from the first day of such assignment.
29.02	Whem members of the bargaining unit are appointed by management to temporarily replace management personnel, the monthly rate of pay shall be twelve percent (121) more than the current monthly salary of the employee so temporarily reassigned. The employee shall also be paid at the appropriate overtime rate for all overtime shifts and overtime hours worked in excess of the normal work day hours associated with the management position, The overtime payment shall be calculated on the employee's regular rate of pay. Any such overtime must be authorized by the manager or his designate. It is anticipated that overtime under this provision would be paid only in extraordinary circumstances.
ARTICLE 30 - CALL-BACK PAY
30.01
23
ARTICLE 31 — SHIFT DIFFERENTIALS
31.01	Subject to clauses 31.02, shift differentials shall be paid at the rate of seventeen and one-half cents (17.5) per hour for each hour worked between 3:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.ia. and thirty-five cents (35.0) per hour for each hour worked febetween 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Shift differential shall not apply to:
(a)	Overtime of less than four (4) hours.
(b)	The calculation of holiday and vacation pay.
(c)	Regular rostered day shift hours.
ARTICLE 32 - WEEKEND PREMIUM
32.01	Subject to the conditions enumerated below, an employee
shall receive a premium of ten dollars ($10.00) over his regular classification rate for each of those shifts between 7:00 a.m. on Saturday to 7:00 a.m. on Monday for which he is regularly scheduled and actually works the full eight (8) hours.
(a)	The ten dollar ($10.00) premium will not be paid if the weekend shift is a shift in excess of his five (5) normal shifts for that week.
(b) The ten dollar ($10.00) premium will not be paid if the weekend shift otherwise entitles the employee to premium overtime pay.
ARTICLE 33 - UNDERGROUND PREMIUM
33.01 A premium of $3.00 over eight (8) hour shift shall be paid to employees who are employed underground in the Corporation’s several collieries.
(The underground premium shall not form part of any classification rate.)
ARTICLE 34 - RETIREMENT ALLOWANCE
34.01	A Retirement Allowance of $500.00 will be paid to each
active employee on the date of his normal retirement (age 65) and to disabled pensioned employees on reaching 65 -(not applicable to P.R.L.),
24
34.02	The retirement allowance of $500.00 shall be escalated
annually for cost-of-living increases commencing January 1981, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases, and, if the aforementioned formula shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the retirement allowance is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
ARTICLE 35 - DEATH BHffiPtf PPR PENSIONERS
35.01	It is agreed that subject to the exceptions outlined in this
article, there will be a deduction of ten (10) cents from each employee and the amount so deducted shall be added to a Corporatian payment of $750.00 and paid to the beneficiary upon the death of-any person who retired prior to Nov. 1,
165, under the provisions of the 1923 Pension Plan provided thalS*uch persons had no benefits under the Current Group Life Insurance Plan, For the purposes of this article, such employees covered shall be those who were on the books of the Dominion Coal Company Limited or Old Sydney Collieries Limited but off work at November 1, 1955, and who became deceased. The beneficiary shall be considered eligible for the Death Benefit as outlined herein.
If the Government accepts responsibility and a Compensation Pension had been paid, or if the former employee is on a "burnt-out" pension, there will be a ten (10) cent deduction from the employees but no $750.00 contribution by the Corporation.
ARTICLE 36 - OBLIGATIONS
36.01	All provisions and terms of this Agreement are hereby mutually agreed to by and between the Cape Breton Development Corporation and all the employees of Local 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees, and signed by the representatives of the parties hereto, who have been duly authorized to execute the same on behalf of Local 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees.
The fuIfi1 line n t of .this Agreement and that of any subsequent joint agreements entered into is guaranteed by the Canadian Union of Public Employees? the Officers of Local 2046 and the Operators? and it is their duty to see that all such agreements are carried out both in the letter and in the spirit.
36^02
25
ARTICLE 37 - GENERAL
37.01	NEGOTIATION DURING TERM OF AGREEMENT
It is agreed during the term of this Agreement, to the extent Federal Legislation permits, and upon written application by the union, the parties will convene meetings for the purpose of renegotiation of wages and fringe benefits.
37.02	Terms of Aqreemen
This Agreement shall commence effective January 1. 1985» and remain in e ffe ct until December Si-; i*Bt>i_aha cnereafte^, "subiect to	montns' notice, in writing, from either
party to the Agreement of its desire to review, amend or terminate it. Such notice may be served any time subsequent to September 30, 1986.
In witness whereof the Corporation and the Union have duly executed this Memorandum of Agreement at Glace Bay, Province of Nova Scotia, this 18th day of May, 1983.
- 26 -
SIGNED ON BEHALF OP:
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
CANADIAN UNION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES LOCAL 2046
L i
APPENDIX "A"
COLLIERY SUPERVISOR "A" AND "B* RATES
Mechanical Supervisor "A" rate would be paid when the supervisor is assigned the direct responsibility of maintenance and installation of production equipment such as wall face equipment and main belt lines. Mechanical Supervisor NBn rate would be paid when the supervisor is assigned as a general mechanical supervisor for the whole mine and may at times be involved in repair of production equipment on an emergency basis. He would also be involved with installation of equipment at various areas of the mine. He could be second supervisor when a supervisor receiving the "A" rate is also working.
Construction Supervisor "A" rate would cover construction supervisors in the collieries, such as Prince, No. 26, and Lingan. Construction Supervisor "B" rate would be employed in 1A and IB airways where basic airway maintenance is carried out. Also, if at some point in time, a second construction supervisor was required at the major operations, the second supervisor would be a Construction Supervisor "B" rate.
Production Supervisor "A" rate would be a full fledged production supervisor capable of running the whole wall face section. Production Supervisor "BN rate would be a new supervisor in the section who would require some assistance from the other supervisor in the section.
Upon permanent assignment to a production wall face, the supervisor shall be paid the Supervisor "B” rate. After working 90 starts as such, the supervisor shall be promoted to the Production Supervisor "A” rate. Also, anybody filling in would be a Supervisor "B" rate.
November 3, 1981
28

CAPE BRETON	SO&IETE DE
DEVELOPMENT	DiVELOPPEMENT
CORPORATION	DU CAP-BRETON
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 1
November 1985
Mr. John Boyd
President, Local 2046
Canadian Union of Public Employees
337'Weiton Street
Sydney, N.S,
B1P 5S6
Dear Mr, Boyd:
RE :	EXTENDED HOPRS OF WOBK
This will confirm the understanding reached today between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above mentioned matter,
The Union and the Corporation agree that, commencing prior to December 31, 198 , they will meet to discuss changes to shift schedules of U.M.W. of A. employees in such manner as will provide for extended' hours of work conducive to more efficient safe coal production; it being understood and agreed that any such changes may be effected only in strict compliance with Canada Labour Code provisions and regulations governing hours of work. This shall require the concurrence of the District Exiecutive and a ratification by a majority of the members at the operating site where such extended hours of work are proposed.
It is further understood and agreed that by the expression "extended hours of work", the parties mean, for example, four 12-hour shifts followed by four days off.
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding.
Yours very truly,
w. A. Goutftro
Director of Employee Relations I concur,
John Boyd
President, Local 2046, CUPB
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S.. Canada B1P6K9 Telephone(902) 564-2848. Telex 019-351-32 Canada
C.P. 2500, Sydney, N-E , Canada B1P <HC9 Telephone {902) 584-2848, Telex 019-351-32
29
4
CAPE BRETON	SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPMENT	DiVELOPPEMENT
CORPORATION	DU CAP-BRETON
LETTER OF 'UNDERSTANDINGNO. 2
November 3, 1981
Mr. James Crosby National Representative Canadian Union of Public Employees 337 Welton Street Sydney, N.S.
RE: - PRODUCTION INCBHTIVB PLAN COVERAGE
Dear Mr. Crosby:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto during negotiations an the above-mentioned matter.
An employee occupying cn a permanent basis a job classification coming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit (C.U.P.E. 2046), as described in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certification Order dated February3r 1978r will, subject to the terms and conditions of the Corporation's Production Incentive Plan, continue to be eligible for coverage under the said Plan during the term of the Collective Agreement between the parties dated November , 1981.
The maximum bonus that can be earned under the Production Incentive Plan in a calendar week is 8120.00
If you concur with the above, please so indicate in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,
Carl Turner
Vice-President, Human Resources
I concur
James Crosby
National Representative
Canadian Union of Public Employees
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada B1P6K9 Telephone(902) 564*2848, Telex 019*351-32
C.p. 2500, Sydney, N*£ , Canada B1P 6K9 Telephone (902)564-2848, Telex 019-351-32
Canada
30
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
November , 1985
socifri de
t>#VELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3
Mr. John Boyd
President, Local 2046
Canadian Union of Public Employees
337 Welton Street
Sydney, N.S *
B1P 5S6
Dear Mr. Boyd:
REs WORKER*S COMPBHSATIOII DEDUCTIONS
The following paragraph represents the Corporation's proposal to resolve Worker's Compensation payments deducted as per Article 16,01 (b) of the Col1ective, Agreement.
The Corporation will allow payment of full wages to a maximum of six weeks or until Worker's Compensation payments are received by the employee or to a maximum of sick leave entitlement,' whichever comes first, before deductions are made. Once the Corporation is notified that the employee is in receipt of Workers' Compensation payments, then the Corporation will make full recovery for the difference of what the Workers' Compensation Board has paid and the employee1 s salary. When the amount owing to the Corporation is fully recovered, then salary will be paid as outlined in Article 6.01 (b). The employee, when he receives Workers' Compensation payments, is obligated to notify the Corporation and make arrangements for refund of any monies owing to the. Corporation.
If you agree with the proposal put forth, please indicate by signing below.
Yours truly,
W. A. Gouthro
Director of Employee Relations I concur,
John Boyd
President, Local 2046, CUPE
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada BtP BK9 Telephone (802) 564-2846. Telex 010-351-32
C.P. 2600, Sydney, tu-f r Canada B1P6K9 Telephone (902) 564-2848, Telex 019-351-32
CanadS
31
CAPE BRETON	SOCIETY DE
DEVELOPMENT	D^VELOPPEMENT
CORPORATION	DU CAP-BRETON
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 4
November , 1985
Mr. John Boyd
President, Local 2046
Canadian Union of Public Employees
337 Wei ton Street
Sydney, N.S.
81P 5S6
Dear Mr, Boyd:
EE:	ARTICLE 6.02
This letter will confirm the.understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto during negotiations.
An employee occupying on a permanent basis a job classification coming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit (C,U,P.£. Local 2046), as described in the C.L.R.B. Certification Order dated February 3, 1978, will exercise the full authority and responsibility required by the act of supervision.
Solely for the purpose of clarifying Article 6.02 of the Collective Agreement, and without limiting the generality thereof, the Union and the Corporation agree that the customary duties and responsibilities as a Supervisor referred to in said Article 6,02 include:
. ensuring compliance with legislation and the Corporation's safety policy, standard procedures and practices;
-	directing and controlling the work force including the administration of corrective discipline and the monitoring of absences from work; and
-	meeting the production requirements of the Corporation in a cost effective manner.
The Corporation and the Union will meet within one month of the signing of an amended Collective Agreement to discuss matters of relevance with regard to this Letter of Understanding.
Yours truly,	I concur,
W. A. Gouthro	John Boyd
Director of Employee Relations President, Local 2045 CUPE
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada B1P 6K9 Telephone(902) 564-2846, Telex 019-351-32
C.P. 2500, Sydney, N-£ , Canada B1P 6K9 Telephone (902)564-2848, Telex 019-361-32
CanadS
32
CAPE BRETON	SOCtgTi DE
DEVELOPMENT	DEVELOPPEMENT
CORPORATION	DU CAP-BRETON
LETTER OF 'UNDERSTANDING'NO. 3
November 3, 1981
Mr. James Crosby National Representative Canadian Union of Public Employees 337 Wei tori Street Sydney, N.S.
RE:	TWO CONSECUTIVE DAYS 'OFFIN 'EACH STANDARD WORK WEEK
Dear Mr. Crosby:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date, between the parties signatory heretof to the effect that the Corporation recognizes the desirability of granting employees two (2) consecutive days off in each work weak, whenever possible, provided a sufficient number of supervisors are available in order that operational requirements can be efficiently and economically met.
If you agree with the foregoing, please indicate in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,
Carl Turner
Vice-President, Human Resources
I concur
James Crosby
National Representative
Canadian Union of Public Employees
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada B1P 6K9 Telephone(802) 664-2848, Telex 019-351-32
C.P. 2500, Sydney, N-E , Canada B1P 6K9 Telephone (902) 564-2646, Tefex 019-351-32
Canada
33 -
CAPE BRETON	SOCIETY DE
DEVELOPMENT	D§VELOPPEMENT
CORPORATION	DU CAP-BRETON
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 6
November 3, 1981
Mr. James Crosby National Representative Canadian Union of Public Employees 337 Welton Street Sydney, N , S .
RE:	SECURITY GUARDS
Dear Mr. Crosby:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date respecting Article 26.03r as contained in Conciliation Commissioner Spencer's "Recommendation for Settlement", to the effect that notwithstanding the Corporation's agreement to delete this provision, it must be abundantly clear that this in no way constitutes a waiver of the Corporation's rights to protect its property and goods at any time within the bounds of the law.
Please indicate your concurrence in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,
Carl Turner
Vice-president, Human Resources
I concur
James Crosby
National Representative
Canadian Union of Public Employees
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada B1P 6K9 Telephone (902) 564-2848, Telex 019-351-32
no oann Surinau m.£ Canada B1P BK9 Teleohone (902) 564-2848. Telex 019-3S1-32
Canada
- 34 -
CAPE BRETON	SOC1ETE DE
DEVELOPMENT	D&TCLOPPEMENT
CORPORATION	DU CAP-BRETON
LETTER'OF 1 UNDERSTANDING NO. 7
November , 1985
Mr. John Boyd
President, Local 2046
Canadian Union of Public Employees
337'Welton Street
Sydney, N.S.
B1P 5S6
Dear Mr. Boyd:
EE:	PRODUCTION IHCBNTIVB PLAN
This letter Will confirm the understanding reached today between the parties signatory herto> respecting the above mentioned
The Union and the Corporation agree that, commencing prior to December 31 r 1 985, they will infeet to review the formula and guidelines prescribed by Article 30 of the Collective Agreement by which production incentive plans are made available throughout the Corporation's coal mining operations.
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding.
Yours very truly,
W. A. Gouthro
Director of Employee Relations I concur,
John Boyd
President, Local 2046 CUPB
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N^., Canada B1P 8K9 Telephone (802) 504-2848, Telex 018-351-32
C.P, 2500, Sydney, N-E , Canada BtP 6K9 Telephone (902) 584-2848, Telex 019-351-32
CanadS
35
4	CAPE BRETON	SOCIETY DE
DEVELOPMENT	DEVELOPPEMENT
CORPORATION	DU CAP-BRETON
,ETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 8
November 3, 1981
Mr. James Crosby National Representative Canadian Union of Public Employees 337 Weiton Street Sydney, N.S.
RE:	CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN
Dear Mr» Crosby:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached, between the parties signatory hereto, during negotiations on the above-mentioned matter.
Membership in the Plan shall be mandatory as a condition of employment for all employees who become members of the bargaining unit (C.U.P.E. 2046) subsequent to the ratification of this Memorandum of Settlement. Contributorship status in the Contributory Pension Plan shall commence from the day the employee becomes a member of the bargaining unit.
If you concur with the above, please so indicate in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,
Carl Turner
Vice-president, Human Resources
I concur
James Crosby
National Representative
Canadian Union of Public Employees
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada B1P6KS Telephone (902) 564-2848, Telex 019-351-32
C.P. 2500, Sydney, , Canada B1P 6K9 Telephone (902)564-2848, Telex 019-351-32
CanadS
CAPE BRETON
■HR DEVELOPMENT
Wm CORPORATION
SOCltrlDE DiVBLOPPEMENT DU CAP-BRETQN
IiBTTBR OF >3	E
November 3, 1981
Mr. James Crosby National Representative Canadian Union of Public Employees 337 Welton Street Sydney, N.S.
9
EE:	SICK LEAVE
Dear Hr. Crosby*
This letter will confirm the understanding roached, between the parties signatory hStTeto, during negotiations on the above-mentioned matter to the effect that the union agrees to the immediate creation of a committee comprised of management and union representatives for the purpose of r eg u 1 a rly , mon it or i ng sick leave usage by members of th bargaining unit.
Please indicate your concurrence in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,
Carl Turner
Vice-president, Human Resources
1 concur
James Crosby National Representative
Canadian Union of Public Employees
p.o. BOX 2500, Sydney. N.8., Canod* B1P9K9 TtttphOM (002) 564-2848. Tttox 018-381-32 C.P. 2500, Sydney, M-g ,	B1P ftKQ Telephone (M2) 864-2848, Telex 018-351-32