SOURCE	do*		
If !%	w	'CY	or
TERM	^3L	i9l	31
COLLECT
No. OF
riom*
«fcO
P**MH0Yfe| A /Cl
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
CCM.DMSION
THE CANADIAN BROTHERHOOD OF RAILWAY, TRANSPORT AND GENERALWORKERS
LOCAL804
JANUARY 1,1MRTO DECB*ER#1.1892
oct.i no ooi«3o3
INDEX
Preamble..................................................4
Article 1, Security of Employment...........................4
Article 2, Regularity of Work ..............................5
Article 3, Recognition and Exclusions ......................5
Article 4, Management.......................................6
Article 5, Contracting cat..................................7
Article 6, Union Activities.................................7
Article 7, Union Security ..................................8
Article 8, Seniority .......................................9
Article 9, Hours of Work & Overtime........................11
Article 10, Grievance Procedure............................14
Article 11, Payment for Statutory Holidays.................16
Article 12, Leave of Absence...............................17
Article 13, Sick Leave ....................................18
Article 14, Vacations .....................................21
Article 15, Disciplinary Action............................23
Article 16, General........................................24
Article 17, No Strike - No Lockout.........................25
Article 18, Safety and Health..............................25
Article 19, Custom and Condition...........................25
Article 20, Salaries.......................................26
Article 21, Contributory Pension Plan......................29
Article 22, Group Insurance Plan ..........................31
Article 23, Bereavement Leave..............................32
Article 24, Jury Duty......................................33
Article 25, Shift Differentials............................34
Article 26, Safety Clothing................................35
Article 27, RetirementAllowance............................36
Article 28, Technological Change...........................36
Article 29, Job Posting....................................37
Article 30, Severence Allowance............................38
Article 31, Supplementary Unemployment Benefits............39
Article 32, Death Benefitsfor Pensioners...................40
Article 33, Compassionate Lump Sum Payments................41
Article 34, Contract Negotiation Meetings..................41
Appendix A", Hours of Work Week ..........................42
Appendix ’A-1", Hours of Work V\feek....................43
Appendix "B1, List of Groups............................44
Article 35, Duration of Agreement.......................
Letter of Understanding No. 4, Preferred Places in Mine.47
Letterof Understanding No. 5, Lunch.....................48
Letterof Understanding No. 6, Surveyors - Production Wall
Face Rate Make-up Payment...............................49
Letterof Understanding No.7, Lay-off Notice.............50
TABLES
Technical Positions. 35 Hours per V\feek ...............51
Technical Positions.40 Hours per V\feek ................52
Clerical Positions. 35 Hours per V\feek.................53
Clerical Positions.40 Hours per V\feek..................54
3
PREAMBLE
Whereas Devco and the Union agree that the purpose of this Collective Agreement is to promote and maintain a sound and harmonious relationship between the Corporation and its employees covered by this Agreement and to set forth herein their rates of pay and other conditions of employment, as well as to provide the machinery for prompt settlement of grievances arising between the parties during the term of this agreement. In the event that settlement under this Agreement does not meet the minimum standards as provided in the Canada Labour Code, Partlll, the Code will take precedence.
Therefore Devco and the Union make the following agreement:
ARTICLE 1 - SECURITY OF EMPLOYMENT
No man who was on the books of Devco 1 st of April 1968 will be ✓n ^^femoved from the books unless he is placed onlhe Pre-Retire-j^/^rient Leave Plan or offered reasonable alternative employment, subject to the following conditions.
The above undertaking in no way limits the right of Devco, because of its responsibility for the safe and efficient conduct of operations, to suspend or dismiss any man for cause.
The above undertaking in noway qualifies the responsibility of Devco temporarily to reduce or suspend a particular operation or part of an operation if such action is necessary to the satisfactory conduct and development of the mining operation as a whole within the funds provided by the Parliament of Canada.
The above undertakingin noway qualifiesthe right of Devco to lay off men if abnormal circumstances so required, but Devco will make every reasonable effort to ensure that a full forty hours' work in each week is available to all men who comply with the rules of regular attendance described in the next clause.
4
ARTICLE 2 - REGULARITY OF V\PRK
Devco and the Union agree that conscientious and regular work is essential to the agreed objectives of maintainingemployment at good wages, and both parties therefore recognize that absenteeism is a serious obstacle to their continued employmentthat no man will be absent from a rostered shift, other than for reasons (such as a compensable accident or welfare) already known to Devco, unless he gives the supervisor/department manager’s office notice of his intended absence at least two hours before the starting time of the rostered shift.
A man who has been absent, for any reason other than one where the precise period of the absence was arranged in advance, muk ensure that the supervisor/department manager’s office is informed of his intended return to work at least eight hours before the starting time of the shift, and if such notice has not been given, he will be sent home.
Any man who fails to give notice of absence, or who fails to establish satisfactory reason for absence, will be interviewed and given a confirming letter, and on repetition will have a further interview followed by a confirming letter and any man who is absent on three occasions without notice or without satisfactory reason will be interviewed followed by a confirming letter and a suspension, with pay, for one full shift and will be liable for dismissal.
ARTICLE 3- RECOGNITIONAND EXCLUSIONS
3:01The Corporation recognizes the Canadian Brotherhood of Railway Transportation and General Workers, as the sole collective bargaining agent for bargaining unit employees of the Corporation’s Coal Division as defined in the Canada Labour Relations Board certificate issued on April 25,1990.
3:02 Bargaining Unit Work
It is recognized that emergencies may arise when a non-bargaining unit person may be required to assist in the work nor-
5
mally performed by members of the bargaining unit. I is understood, however, that no non-bargaining unit employee shall perform any work normally performed by employees within the bargaining unit, except in those non-routine circumstances where the alternative would mean serious loss, damage, or creation of a safety hazard.
Any abuse of this clause shall be taken up under the procedure for handling grievances.
The corporation recognizes Canadian Brotherhood of Railway Transport and General Workers Union, or its successors, as the sole bargaining agent of the employees as described in Article 1, and agrees to meet with representativesof the Local Union for the purpose of carrying out the terms of this Agreement. Should a new classification with the bargaining unit be created during the term of this Agreement, the Management and Executive of the Union shall decide on the rate and designation.
No employee covered by the Agreement shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written agreement which may conflict with the terms of this contract.
It is recognized that emergencies may arise when a non-Bargaining unit person may be required to perform work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit. It is understood, however, that the day-to-day temporary replacementsforshotfir-ers and mine examiners (UMW of A qualified to perform the work) shall continue as has been past practice. The Corporation agrees that when it is known in advance, the Corporation will recall to employment laid-off members of the bargaining unit qualified to do the work availableto fill such vacancy.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT
4:01The union recognizes the right of the Corporation to operate and manage its own business. The union further recognizes the right of the corporation to hire, promote, demote, transfer, assign, suspend or otherwise discipline any employee for just cause. Any employee who thinks he has been unjustly dealt with by the Corporation may consider he has a grievance and
6
may have it dealt with in the manner herein after provided.
ARTICLE 5 - CONTRACTING OUT
5.01	Except in the following circumstances, the Corporation will not contract out work in respect of which the bargaining unit has been certified by the Canada Labour Relations Board:
(1)	When required, when professional or technical skills are not available from within the bargaining unit; or
(2)	In emergencies or otherwise where sufficient employees qualified to perform work are not available from among the active or laid-off employees who are members of the bargaining unit.
5.02	The Corporation will advise the Union representative involved in writing as far in advance as is practicable of its intention to contract out. Such advice will contain a description of the work to be contracted out, the reason why, and if possible, the date the contract is to commence. If a request for a meeting from the aforementioned Union Representatives is made to discuss such contracting out, it will be arranged at a mutually acceptable time.
ARTICLE 6- UNION ACTIVITIES
6.01 The Union and employees covered by this agreement shall not conduct Union activities during working hours except as in this Agreement expressly provided. Nor shall union meetings <f any kind be held at any time on the premises of the Corporation without prior written consent of the Corporation. The Corporation will make available those bulletin boards located in its offices for the use of the Union, and it is agreed that the use by the Union of such bulletin boards shall be restricted to the posting thereon of such notices as shall have received the prior approval cf the Employee Relations Department and such notices shall be restricted to notices of the following type:
(a)	Noticesof Union meetings, recreational and social affairs.
(b)	Notices of Union elections, appointments and results cf elec-
7
tions,
If the National Representative of the Union servicing this bargaining unit or his nominee wishes to contact one of the Union representatives during working hours concerning some urgent in-office problem relating to this Agreement, he shall make such request through the Employee Relations Department and, provided such meeting will not needlessly interfere with the operations, arrangements will be made for such Union representative to confer in private at a Corporation Office. The Union will provide the Corporation with the names of the Department Stewards and of the Local Chairman and will also provide the names of any alternate inthe event of substitution,
7:01 Every employee who is a member of the Union _flt, tha effective date of this Agreement, or who becomes a member of the Union during the life of the Agreement, shall continue to be a member in good standing of the Union during. the life of the Agreement, provided he continues to be an eligible member and during the life of the Agreement shall have deducted from his wages all dues, levies, fines and assessments authorized by and in accordance with the Constitution of the Union.
7:02 Every employee who is not a member of the Union but who occupies a position within the bargaining unit shall have deducted from his wages a sum equivalentto Union-dues in such amount as may from time to time be assessed to their memb accordingto the Union Constitution.
7:03 All new employees occupying positions within the barga... ing unit shall have deducted from their wages, within 30 days of employment, a sum equivalent to Union dues in such amount as may from time to time be assessed to their members according to the Union Constitution.
7:04 At the end of each calender month and priorto the 10th of the following month, the Corporation shall remit by cheque the total of the deductions to the Secretary-Treasurer, Canadian Brotherhood of Railway, Transport and General Workers, 2300 Carling Avenue, Ottawa, Ontario, K2B 7G1
ARTICLE 7- UNION SECURITY
8
7:05 The Corporation agrees to provide to the Secretary-Treasurer a monthly list showing the dues deducted by the Corporation from salaries paid to employeeswho are under the jurisdiction of the Local. Union dues shall be collected from employees transferred outside the bargaining unit temporarily. Collection of union dues will cease should the employee become established in the position outside the bargaining unit and such transfer is confirmed by the Corporation to be permanent.
7:06 The Union shall indemnify and hold the Corporation harmless against any and all liability which may arise by reason of the checkoff by the Corporation of Union dues, levies, fines and assessments from employees' wages in accordance with this Agreement.
ARTICLE 8- SENIORITY 8:01 Definitions
(a)	Seniority shall be defined as most recent date of employment with the Corporation.
(b)	"Probationary Employee” means an employee on probation
for the firs ‘	from his most recent date of employment
(c)	"Permanent Employee” means an employee who occupies a positionwithin the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement and who has satisfactorily completed his probationary period.
(d)	"Ability” shall include experience and skill on the job, attitude and adaptability.
(e)	”Group" means the employee working in a section of an office or individual employees working in different localities and who are grouped together for the purpose of the application of this Agreement. (See Appendix)
with the
9
8:02 Lay-off and Recall
(a)	The Corporation shall retainthe right at all times to maintain an efficient working force. The Corporation will advise the union representatives in -advance of an IJavpffsand provide details of classifications involved. U&O
(b)	In the event of a lay-off of employees covered by this Agreement, the Corporation shall reduce the workforce employed in the following manner:
Probationary employees will be laid off first; then permanent employees.
(c)	(i) It Is understoodemployeeswho exercisethelr seniority
in the SyfftPlfla process also havethe ability to perform	-yQ.
the work!	O""
(II) An employee who is laid off from a dassificationwlll havethe right to bump a junior employee from the classification at that site.
(iii)	An employee bumped from a classification i. a particular
site will havethe right to bump a junior employee inthe same dassificationatanotherslte,	r
(iv)	The most junior employee bumpedfrom a groupwill havethe rightto bumpthe mostjunior employee inthe £--5^ bargaining unit.
(d)	Recall to work following a lay-off shall be done in reverse order of seniority provided tho employees recalled are able to perform satisfactorily the workto be done.	1
kk
8:03 Loss of Employment Status	(
An employee's employment shall terminate:
(a)	Ifthe employee quits his employment
(b)	If the employee is dismissed and such dismissal is not reversed through the grievance procedure.
(c)	If any employee is off work as a result of lay-offfor 24 months I this employment service Is less than 24 months. In the event the employee's service is between 24 months and 60 months, the employee will not lose seniority until after a period of lay-off corresponding to the length of the employee's service to a mlnL . mum of 60 months,
(d)	If the employee retires or is retired.
(e)	In accordance with Article 15 of this Agreement entitled “Disciplinary Action- Unauthorized Absence from Work.”
8:04 Transfers
(a)	If the Corporation transfers an employee from outside the bargaining unit to within the bargaining unit, the qualifying period shall not exceed three months. Ifthe Corporation transfers an employee from within the bargaining unit to a position outside the bargaining unit, the employee's employment status as established in the bargaining unit shall be retained for one year from time to transfer.
(a) 1 Applicableto Shotfirersand Mine Examiners Only
In the event an employee is recalled to work as a work site other than his former location and in the event that work again becomes available at his former location, or at a new location preferable to the employee, and before junior employees are assigned to the former location or new location, those employees with seniority would have a right to return to the former location or other new location before less senior employees.
Employees who opt to return to a former location or to a new location still have thirty (30) days to indicate their intentions beginning from the time the job at the former location or new location becomes permanent.
ARTICLE 9- HOURS OF WORK & OVERTIME
9.01 Hours of Work
The normal work week shall be forty (40) hours consisting of five (5) days per week, eight (8) hours per day or seven (7) hours per day, thirty five (35) hours per week in the respective catagories where such hours now exist. (See listing of categories attached).
9:02 Rostering
A roster will be posted at each operational unit which will specify the five normal shifts that each employee will work and which may be any five shifts in a week of seven days. The roster will be so updated as to normally give each employee a week's notice of his specific shift roster for the following weeks and will reflect the additional work days required so as to provide an average of 22 days per month.
9:03 Paragraph 9:02 provides for the setting up of rosters for each employee to be allotted five shifts within seven days. For each of those shifts between 7 a.m. on Saturday and 7 a.m. on Monday for which an employee is rostered and which he works for full eight hours, he will receives premium of $10.00 over and above his normal datal rate. This premium will not be taken into account in computing his overtime payment if he works more than eight hours in the weekend shift and it will not apply if the weekend shift is a shift in excess of his five normal shifts for that week.
9:04 Nothing herein shall be read or construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day, week or month.
9:05 (a)Overtime at the rate of time and one-half the employee's regular rate will be applicable after seven (7) hours of work per day, thirty-five (35) hours of work per week, or eight (8) hours of work per day, forty (40) hours of work per week inthe respective categories where such hours now exist. Premium hours accumulated on a daily basis shall not be used for the purpose of calculating premium hours on a weekly basis.
(b)	Employees shall be paid at double timejhe regular classification rate for all time worked ofTFpal3"statutory holiday. This double time payment is wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his remaining regular rostered shifts during the week in which the holiday occurs.
Where the employee fails to work all of his remaining regular rostered shifts during the week in which the holiday occurs as a result of a mechanical or electrical failure which renders the site idle, the employee so affected will qualify for the
double time payment for all time worked on the statutory holiday.
(o) Employees will be paid at double time the regular classification rate for all time worked on a non-rostered Sunday shift. This double time payment is wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his remaining regular rostered shifts dur^ „ ing the week in which the non-rostered Sunday shift occurs.
9:06 Employees will be rostered five (5) days in a seven (7) day period. Where, after an employee has been given a weekly roster and is required at the request of the Corporation to change his rostered work days in a currentweek, overtime rates of pay will be paid for the non-rostered day. Exceptionsto this may occur when the roster change must be made over which the Corporation has no control, such as ship arrivals, requests for services from sources outside the Corporation, or abnormal circumstances.
9:07 Shift Cancellation
An employee who, while at home, is requested by Management and agrees to work a non-rostered shift and then cancelled before the commencement of time of the non-rostered shift shall be paid the sum of $15.00 for such cancellation.
9:08 Employees called back to work on irregular hours other than immediately preceding or following their regular rostered shift will receive not less than four (4) hours pay at straight time rates or applicable overtime rates for the time worked, whichever is the greater, and for any time worked overfour (4) hours, shall receive not less than eight (8) hours at straight time / rates or applicable overtime rates.
✓ ?
It is agreed that the Corporation will not make use of Articles9,01 and 9.05 of this Agreementto defeatthe purpose of this Article.
13
ARTICLE 10 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
No grievance shall be considered which usurps the functions of Management provided that the question of whether or not the subject matter of the grievance is arbitrable may itself be carried through the grievance procedure as part of the grievance and determined accordingly.
The Corporation may decline to consider any grievance the alleged circumstancesof which originated or occurred more than five (5) working days prior to its presentation. No grievance will be considered or processed by the Corporation during any stoppage of work which is in violation of this agreement.
It is understood and agreed that a probationary employee shall be entitled to use the grievance procedure, but shall not be entitled to grieve with respect to his probationary separation except that after the first three months of this probationary period the employee may request Union representation for the purpose of presenting the facts in the event that he feels he has been unfairly dismissed.
The grievance procedure shall apply equally to a grievance lodged by an employee or group of employees and with the necessary changes commencing at Stage 3 apply to any grievance lodged by the Corporation.
Any employee having a grievance will attempt to settle it with his immediate Supervisor.
Step 1 When an employee has a grievance, the grievance may within five (5) days of the alleged violation be filed in writing on the Corporation's standard grievance form with his immediate supervisor who shall provide an answer in writing within three (3) days from receipt of the alleged grievance.
Step 2 If the immediate supervisor does not resolve a grievance to the satisfaction of the aggrieved employee, the employee or his steward may lodge an appeal in writing on the grievance form with the next level of Management or his representative within three working days of the immediate Supervisor’s decision at Step 1. The decision of the second level Manager shall
14
be in writing on the grievance form and shall be rendered within five regular working days of the delivery of the appealto him. Step 3 Failing settlement at Step 2, the grievance may be appealed by the Local Chairman of the Grievance committee to the Manager/General Manager or his nominee within five working days of delivery of the decision at Step 2. At this step, the Manager/General Manager or his nominee, and a representative of the Employee Relations Department shall meet and discuss the grievance with the Local Chairman or his nominee and other representatives of the Union as the Local Chairman shall designate, not to exceed two employee members of the bargaining unit together with a national representative of the Union, or his nominee, if he desires to attend. The Manager/General Manager will act as Chairman of this Step 3 meeting. The two employee members of the bargaining unit may be exceeded from time to time when requested by the Union and the circumstances of the particular grievance requires additional representation. The decision of the Corporation at this step shall be rendered within ten (10) calendar days of the delivery of the appeal to the Manager/General Manager. Failing settlement of the grievance at Step 3, the matter may then be referred to arbitration within fifteen (15) days of the decision at step 3.
Note:Distribution of Replies:
Stepl - Grieverand Local Chairman
Step2- Grieverand Local Chairman
Step 3- National Representative and Local Chairman ARBITRATION
(A)	Notice in writing may be given by one party to the other after the foregoing designated procedures have been exhausted requiring the unresolved grievance to be submitted to arbitration. In such cases, a sole arbitrator shall be appointed by the parties within fifteen (15) days following the delivery of written notice calling for arbitration.
Should the parties be unable to agree on the selection of an arbitrator, the Federal Minister of Labour will be requested to make the appointment.
15
The arbitrator shall be paid jointly by management and union.
(B)	In all cases, the decision shall be final and binding upon both parties, but in no case shall the decision alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement or make any other decision inconsistentwith specific terms of the Agreement.
The arbitrator shall have the authority, in cases where its decision is that the griever was improperly discharged or suspended, to order this reinstatement.
ARTICLE 11 • PAYMENT FOR STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Holiday Entitlement:
11.01	Paid Holidays shall be granted as follows:
1.	New Year’s Da/'	6. Labour Day
2. Good Friday	7. Thanksgiving Day
3. Victoria Day	8, Remembrance Day
4.	Miner’s Memorial Da/ 9. ChristmasDay-
5.	Canada Day	10. Boxing Day/
11. Floating Holiday
i'iu
11.02	(a) If the Government of Canada designates Heritage Day or such day as a General Holiday, the day so designated by the Government shall be substituted for the Floating Holiday. The Floating Holiday will be celebrated under the following conditions:
(b)	The employee must make application to Management at least two weeks in advance of the designated day.
(c)	Eligibility for payment for ‘additional holiday' shall be determined in the same manner as at present for statutory holidays, counting back from the first day of the Christmas vacation in the previous calender year.
(d)	Eligible employees who do not use the Floating Holiday entitlement prior to December 1st in the year to which entitled, will have payment included in the Christmas week pay.
16
11.03	When any cf the above holidays fall on Sunday or Saturday, the day observed by the Federal Government in respect of its employees as the holiday shall be recognized. if in the Province of Nova Scotia, a holiday is more generally recognized than any one of the holidays specified above, the signatories hereto will substitute such holidays.
11.04	if a statutory holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the employee is entitled to an additional day's pay provided he was entitled to pay for such holiday. The additional day may betaken as either-
1.	an extra day's pay; or
2.	an extra vacation pay; or
3.	a floating holiday
Such day is to be taken at a date mutually agreed to between the employee and management.
11.05	The service qualification for payment of any of the holidays specified above is as follows:
(a)	The employee must have been in the active employ of the Corporation for at least thirty (30) calender days.
(b)	The employee must have been entitled to wages for at least five (5) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday concerned.
ARTICLE 12- LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12.01	An employee may be allowed up to sixty (60) calendar days leave of absence without pay for per§©nak-reasons if he requests it from the Corporation in writirigTand the Corporation believes the leave is for good reason, and does not unduly interfere with operations, except in emergency situations when leave of absence will be granted regardless.
12.02	Employees who have been selected by the Union to attend Union corjventions or conferences will be granted a temporary leave of absence without pay for this purpose. Applications for such temporary leave-of-absence must be made in writing to
the Director of Employee Relations at least two (2) weeks in advance of the temporary leave cf absence.
12.03	Employees elected or appointed to afull-time Unionposi-tion and who maintains a Union/Management relationship the Corporation will be granted a leave of absence without pay.—"CT' Applications for such a leave of absence must be rftade in Writing to the Director of Employee Relationsand Compensation at ■
least one (1) month in advance of the starting date of the leave of absence. For all purposes, otherthan the Corporation’s Non-Cortributory Pension Plan, employees who Return to the Corporation.after a leave of absence under this paragraph will be
deemed to have been employed by the Corporation for the period of the absence when calculating that employee's length of service. Upon return to the Corporation from leave of absence, employeeswill be placed in a position of the mostjunior employee of which, in the opinion of the Corporation, he/she is capable of performing.
ARTICLE 13-SICK LEAVE
13.01 (A) In the event of an employee being absent from work as a result of personal disability due to sickness or accident, such employee, while in the employ of the Corporation, shall continue to receive his normal rate of pay exclusive of premium pay, shift premium, or any special allowance to the extent that he is entitled according to the applicable provisions of th|s Collective Agreement and this article.
(B) Salaries paid under the provision of the article s	-
ject to normal statutory deductions and further reduced by the amounts of any Worker's compensation payments that may be made to an employee with respectto the period in which such salary is drawn. For each day off work and receiving Workers' Compensation payments, four-tenth' day sick credit will be deducted from the employee's credits. Under no circumstances does an employee on Compensation have his payments made up to his salary for more than 66 calendar days during a calendar year.
(C)	No employee will have his salary adjusted for more than 66
18 "
days in a calendar year.
(D)	In order to qualify for payment under this article, employees who must absent themselves from work due to sickness or personal disability, must notify their department supervisor of their intended absence and the reason for the absence. Immediately upon return to work after such disability, the employee must provide the department supervisor with a certificate from a licensed physician indicating the employee was unable to perform his regular duties, the treatment received, and dates treatment received. Written proof of treatment from the first day of layoff where payment is to be made for layoff is required.
(E)	Salary continuation is not applicable to self-inflicted illness or injury. Any employee who absents himself from work due to sickness or accident may be required to submit to an examination by a doctor appointed by the Corporation. Salary continuation will not be paid beyond the effective date of lay-off, provided the employee is advised of lay-off prior to the illness or accident occurring.
(F)	To qualify for sick leave payment in a particular calendar year, the employee must have worked a minimum of one (1) * rostered day during the calendar year. An employee laying-off work through sickness or injury after having worked the last rostered shift prior to Christmas vacation may receive the unused portion of sick leave left from the previous year.
(G)	Any employee who is off work due to sickness or personal disability at the beginning of a calendar year, and such absence from is a continuation from the previous calendar year, then the employee will be entitled to continue to use that portion of unused sick credits from the previous calendar year.
(H)	An employee who, while on his annual vacation, becomes hospitalized, shall have the right to be placed on sick leave and the actual days spent in hospital shall be counted as sick days and not vacation days.
* Formerly five (5) rostered days 19
(I)lt is the intention of this plan to assist employees with their expenses while sick or injured.
J)	Sick leave shall not be paid concurrently with Unemployment Insurance Commission benefits.
K)	On the first disability, payment shall start on the first day and a waiting period shall not be required. On the second disability, payment shall start on the second day of the illness. There shall be a one-day waiting period. On the third disability, payment shall start on the third day of the illness. There shall be a two-day waiting period. On the fourth disability, payment shall start on the fourth day of the illness. There shall be a three-day waiting period. The three-day waiting period shall be in effect on all succeeding disabilities.
(L)	An employee who is absent from a regular rostered shrft(s) and has sick day (s) credit will be paid sick day benefitsfromthe first day of disability if hospitalized within the waiting period(s) as outlined in Article 13 (K). Forthe purpose of this clause, hospitalized means that the employee has actually been admitted as a regular patient in the hospital and the Nova Scotia Health Services Commission recognizes same by paying a full day's hospitalstay on his behalf.
(M)	An employee required though illness to leave work after having completed a half-shifts work shall not have the absence considered a disability under this article, provided the number of absences occurring through such illness in any one calendar year does not exceed two (2).
13:02 Sick Leave Credits- Incumbent Employees
Employees who have been members of the bargaining unit will be granted sick credits on the following basis:
Service Requirement
Under 12 months of	1 day for each month
Continuous service	of service
Over 12 months of	22 daysduring a
20
continuous service but under 60 months Over 60 months oi service but under Over 180 months of continuous service
44 days during a calendar year ■_66..days during a calendar year
calendar year
13:03 Sick Leave - New Employee to the Bargaining Unit
(a)	Effective January 1, 1982, an employee in a position with the bargaining unit for 's1x~(6) months continuously from his most recent hire shall accumulate and be granted sick leave not exceeding a total of 66 days from his regular work schedule through bona fide illness or non-compensable injury.
(b)	Such leave shall accumulate as a privilege at the rate of_1_ 1/4 working days per calendar month, provided the employee HaVworked a minimum of 20 regularly scheduled days in each calendar month to a maximum accumulation of 66 days, provided such sick leave shall be paid at the employee's regular rate of pay for one scheduled day at straight time.
14:01 In each calendar year, paid vacation shall be earned by all employees covered by this agreement on the following basis: 1 2/3 days for each 21 days worked to a maximum of 20 days in any calendar year. Vacation credits are earned and accumulated in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which they are taken.
14:02 Vacations will be scheduled to least interfere with operations and will, insofar as possible, conform with the general periods of vacation scheduled by the Corporation for its employees in mining and allied departments. It is understood that, insofar as is practicable, the Corporation will schedule the fourth week of vacation, for employees qualified to receive same, during the period between Christmas Day and the first day of the New Year.
14:03 Vacations must be taken in the calendar year they fall due
ARTICLE 14-VACATIONS
and wages/salaries shall not be paid in lieu of vacations except under the special circumstances outlined in Clause 14:04 below. If, however, employees are requested by management to work vacation period(s) and not enough time remains in the calendar year for the employee to take his earned vacation in that year, the vacation days not taken shall be put over to the calendar year immediately following and taken at a time mutually convenient to the employee and management.
14:04 Any employee leaving the services of the Corporation after working a full year since his last vacation period will be given twenty days off with pay or four weeks salary as the Corporation may decide. Any employee leaving the Corporation's service after working less than a full year since his last vacation period will, providing he is not dismissed for cause or leaves the service of his own accord and for reasons beyond his control, be given either 1 2/3 days off with pay cr 1 2/3 days salary for each twenty-one (21) days worked since his last vacation period, as the Corporation may decide.
14:05 Vacation pay will be atthe employee’s current rate of pay he takes his vacation, if an employee works a partyearon datal pay and reverts to a salary, he will draw as his vacation pay at the datal rate or the salary rate whichever is greater.
Vacation Pay Bonus Applicable to Shotfirers/Mine Examiners
Only
14:06 (a) After one (1) year’s continuous service with the Corpo-^^f ration an employee who has earned twenty (20) days’vacation / pay will, in addition, be paid a lump sum vacation bonus equivalent to one day's pay at his current rate.
(b) After five (5) years’ continuous service with the Corporation, an employee who as earned twenty (20) days’ vacation pay will, in addition, be paid a lumpsum vacation bonus equivalentto 2.5 days pay at his current rate.
(c)	After ten (10) years' continuous service with the Corporation, an employee who has earned twenty (20) days‘
22
vacation pay, will, in addition, be paid a lump sum vacation bonus equivalent to 3.5 days’ pay at his current rate.
(d)	After fifteen (15) years’ continuous service with the Corporation, an employee who has earned twenty (20) days‘ vacation pay will, in addition, be paid a lump sum vacation bonus equivalent to 4.5 days’ pay at his current rate.
(e)	After twenty (20) years' continuous service with the Corporation, an employee who has earned twenty (20) days' vacation pay will, in addition, be paid a lump sum vacation bonus equivalent to 5 days’ pay at his current rate.
14:07 For purposes of calculating vacation pay, days worked shall mean paid vacation days, paid bereavement leave, paid jury duty, paid statutory holidays, authorized absences for union business, except those granted under Article 12 (C), absences from work due to on-the-job injury (forwhich Workers’ Compensation is paid), or an illness or accident for which benefits are received or would have been received (penalty days) under Article 13 of this agreement. In no case shall an employee receive credit for more than a total of sixty-six (66) days in any calendar year in respect of a combination of the two last-named benefits. Where an employee does not actually work in any calendar year, the aforementioned sixty-six (66) days shall not be applicable.
ARTICLE 15- DISCIPLINARY ACTION
Accurate records will be kept to document unauthorized absences from work.
The stage of disciplinary action shall be as follows:
Stage I After absence without cause, a corrective interview will be held with the employee. This interview will be followed with a confirming letter to the employee.
Stage II After the second absence without cause, a further corrective interview will be conducted with the employee and followed up with a confirming letter to the employee.
23
Stage III After the third absence without cause a further corrective interview will be conducted with the employee. The interview will be followed with the a confirming letter to the employee. At this stage, the employee will also be suspended, with pay, for one full work shift. Afurther absence without cause will result in the dismissal of the employee.
ARTICLE 16- GENERAL
16:01 Wherever the pronoun “he” is used in this agreement, it shall be interpreted to mean he or she.
16:02 The Corporation agrees to deduct property taxes when so authorized by the employee.
16:03 The Corporation agrees that deductions will be made for Credit Union when so authorized in writing by the employee.
16:04 PRICE OF COAL TO EMPLOYEES Employees covered by this collective agreement who are eligible to purchase coal at reduced rates will be governed by the terms negotiated between the Corporation and the major bargaining unit (UMWofA). Forthe purpose of this article, eligible employees shall include all employees covered by this collective agreement who retire from the service of the Corporation.
16:05 If an employee is temporarily transferred for short periods of time for the benefit of the Corporation and travel by personal auto is required, applicable mileage will be paid. If the transfer is for the benefit of the employee or is permanent, then mileage will not be paid.
16:06 Inthe event of a temporary transfer, requested by the Corporation, the employee involved will be paid the higher of the two rates.
ARTICLE 17 - NO STRIKE - NO LOCK-OUT
The Union shall not strike or authorize a strike of any of the em-
24
ployees covered by this agreement or authorize any other interference or curtailment of operations by such employees contrary to law during the term of this agreement. The Corporation shall not lock-out or sanction a lock-out of any employee covered by this agreement contrary to law during the duration of the agreement.
No employee will leave his/her workplace until it is in a protective condition.
ARTICLE 18 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
(1)	It is mutually agreed that both Management and the Union will co-operate to the fullest possible extend toward the prevention of accidents and the promotion of safety first and health.
(2)	The Corporation agreesto make necessary provisions for the safest possible working conditions in the mines, in strict accordance with directives as outlined in the Canada Labour Code, Coal Mines (C.B.D.C.) Safety Regulations.
(3)	The Corporation agrees to provide to the employees safety clothing at cost.
(4)	Employee Assistance Program
Without detracting from the existing rights and obligations of the parties recognized in other provisions of this Agreement, the Corporation and the Union agree to co-operate in encouraging employees who may become afflicted with alcoholism or dxugs to undergo a co-ordinated program directed to the objective of their rehabilitation.
ARTICLE 19 - CUSTOM AND CONDITION
19:01 It is mutually understood that agreed past customs and conditions will only be changed after discussion and agreement between the parties.
25
ARTICLE 20 - SALARIES
A: SHOTFIRERS AND MINE EXAMINERS ONLY:
20:01 Following are the rates of pay for shotfirers and mine examiners:-
	Per Hour	Increase
January t, 1989	15.3622	Nil (Signing
		bonus in
lieu)		
January 1,1990	15.9766	4%
January 1, 1991	16.6157	4%
January 1, 1992	17.4465	5%
20:02 The Corporation agrees that salary employees under this agreement employed as part of a crew to perform a well defined task during a shift will be permitted to leave the mine with the crew when the whole task has been completed to the satisfaction of the supervisor and the supervisor has authorized the men to leave the mine. This does not apply to individual employees who will be disciplined if they leave the mine singly before the end of the shift.
20:03 TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT TO THE POSITION OF SUPERVISOR
The shotfirer and examiner will receive the rate of the supervisor replaced. Working conditions which apply to supervisors will apply to the substituting examiner or shotfirer when serving in the above-mentioned capacity and receiving the salary rate of the position.
B: CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL ONLY
20:04 All positions subject to this agreement have been evaluated and graded as defined in Appendix "A” attached hereto, and such grading shall apply for purposes of this agreement.
Appendix "A" and such determination shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure.
20:06 A standard monthly salary rate shall be applied to each position grade and such rates shall become the standard monthly salary scale.
20:07 The Standard Monthly Salary Scale or rates shall apply to all employees who are qualified in their respective position grades and the monthly salary rates for each position grade shall be the established standard rate.
20:08 In addition to the standard monthly scale of rates, a schedule of progression rates is established in accordance with the following:
(a)	A starting rate for each position grade at a level ten percent (10%) belowthe standard rate for the position.
(b)	Afirst progression rate for each position grade, at a levelfive percent (5%) below the standard rate for the position.
20:09 The established progressional rate defined in 20:08 shall apply to the position in the respective grades as follows:
(a)	The starting rate shall apply commencing on the date an employee is assigned to such grade and continue for a period of six months.
(b)	Then the first progression rate shall apply commencing as of the beginning of the month closest to the date when such employee completed such training period and continue for a period of six months.
(c)	Then the standard rate of the job shall apply commencing at the beginning of the month closest to the date when the employee shall have completed the final progression period, provided however, in case (a), (b), and (c) above, that the employee has proved satisfactory to the management at the time such progression periods are completed, and such determination shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
20:10 Should an employee have ability beyond that required in any progression period, the Corporation, at its sole discretion, may waive in whole or in partthe established progression peri-
27
ods defined in20:08 and 20:09 above.
20:11 An employee who has been incumbent at a position grade for more than two years and demoted to another position of a lower grade for reasons other than disciplinary action or incompetence, shall receive the standard rate of the position to which demoted inthefollowing stages:
-If the demotion to a lower grade is two or more position grades he shall be reduced, six months after the date of demotion, to the standard of the range of one position grade above the position he shall occupy. He shall then be reduced to the standard of the range of the position which he shall occupy six months afterthe date of the previous decrease.
-If the demotion to a lower grade is one position grade, his salary will be reduced in six months from the date of demotion to the standard of the range to which demoted. It is understood that such demoted employees whose salaries are above the standard of their position grades after reflecting decreases as herein provided, will have their salaries frozen until such time as the standard salary exceeds the frozen salary.
20:12 TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT
When employees covered by the bargaining unit are appointed by management to temporarily replace unionized supervisory personnel, the daily rate of pay shall be equalto the daily rate of pay of the supervisory position which they are temporarily filling. When replacing supervisory confidential personnel, the daily rate of pay shall be fifteen percent (15%) more than the current daily rate of the employee so temporarily assigned. The employee shall also be paid at the appropriate overtime rate for all overtime shifts and overtime hours worked in excess of the normal work day hours associated with the supervisory position.
28
ARTICLE 21 - CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN
ELIGIBILITY:
Membership in the Plan shall be mandatory as a condition of employment for all employees who are new to the bargaining unit after January 1,J982L~
A summary of the Contributory Pension Plan is attached as Appendix “B",
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION SUMMARY OF CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN
Effective Date:	April 1,1974
Eligibility:
(a) Males (b) Females Optionalto full time employeesof the Corporation who commenced employment prior to January 1, 1983. Mandatory as a condition of employmentfor all new employeesto the bargaining unit on or after January 1,1983
Normal Retirement
(A) Males (B) Females	Age65 I) j
Employee Retirement- 5% of earnings, (in addition to Canada Pension Plan contributions).
Pension at Retirement:
(a)	Future Service - In addition to the Canada Pension Plan, 2% of career average earnings while a participant of the Plan, ad-*4 justed for cost-of-living increases*	Y3M --
(b) PastService- Employees in the Union who retire from the Corporation on their normal retirement date and are entitled to pension under the new contributory Plan maintained by the Corporation, shall receive under the Non-contributory Plan a basic pension benefit, if any, based on years of continuous service priorto joining the Contributory Pension Plan.
The basic pension benefit is equal to four dollars per month for each year of continuous service up~to a maximum of 25
29
years, adjusted for cost-of-living* increases. However, no employee having less than 10 years of continuous service shall be entitledto any pension benefit underthe Non-contributory Plan.
DependentsBenefit: (a) Before Retirement
(b) After Retirement
-KM

5 years payment of earned V pension with cost-of-living &	\
Increases (or employee contribu-l tions with interest if greater). / Balance of 5 years payment of / pensionwith cost-of-living	/
increases.*	I
Total and Permanent Disability Waiver
A participantwho becomes disabled may apply to the Pension Board for a waiver of contributionsduring the period of disability. ~~~
Termination of Service
(a) Cash Refund If less than 10 years in the Plan, and under age 45, return of employee contributionswith interest.
(b)	Vestings Fullvesting will apply after 10 years of service and attainment of age 45.	-	^
Any employee who does not elect to join the Contributory Plan j will have a pension at retirement under the Non-Contributory Plan. The basic benefit under the Non-Contributory Plan is equal to four dollars per month for each year of continuous service up to a maximum of 25 years.
Cost-Of-Living Increases
The pension at retirement and/or the dependant benefit shall be subject to cost-of-living increases equivalent in rate to the rate of increases provided from time to time byway of
annual adjustments in retirement under the Panada Pension Plan. The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Corporations's pension plans. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the content of the registered plan texts.
ARTICLE 22 - GROUP INSURANCE PLAN
GROUP INSURANCE 1991
Appendix
; /CvV Jan 1, {Vi
Group Life Insurance	21,000
Acc. Death & Dismemberment21,000 Retired Life Insurance TJ/,,.- 3,000 (Employee) { Dependant Life Insurance
r~j	-Wife 2,500
-_u-r -Child 1,250
22.500
22.500 3,500
2,500
1,250
Hospital^
Private Room Accommodation
23.500
23.500 4,000
2,500
1.250
Hospital
Ambulance
Out-Patient Charges $25.00 $40.00 per Insurance Year
IC- _
Eye Care	, January 1, 1990 (Framesand Lenses
■/% / ’ once every twoyears to maximum of O '■ - $125.00)
January 1, 1991 increase to $150,00
Prescription Drugs:
The maximum per person in any insurance year for analgesics, hypnotics, sedatives, and tranquilizers shall be increased to $300.00. If, however, due to extenuating medical circumstances, this amount is insufficient, the carrier will, on application, extend the maximum amount.
O-
31
Diabetic and Colostomy Supplies:
Eligible employees will receive diabetic and colostomy supplies under the terms of the Group Insurance Policy in effect .on the
date of ratification.	•—...............
Monthly Income Insurance:	£550 f
60% of insured earnings at date of disability reduced by income from other sources. Maximum monthly payment is $1,500.
Dental Care:
Employees will be provided a Corporation paid basic dental care plan. This coverage includes spouse and dependant children. The cost of the dental plan to the employer will not exceed $13.00 per month per eligible employee. The amount covered by the Corporation dental plan, after the normal deductible, will match dentists; fee in the current year as follows: January 1, 1990- $700. per year; January 1, 1991 -$800. per year; January 1, 1992 - $900 per year.
The cost of the Insurance and Welfare Benefits Plan (excluding Dental Care Plan) will continue on a shared 60% -40% am-ployer/employee basis.
Spouses'eTcTeceased employees may have the option to con-_ tinue-particiftation in the Employee Group Insurance Plan (ex-v eluding LTPybn the basis that the spouse pays the full 100% ■premium:
The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Group Insurance Plan. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the content of the insurance contract between Great West Life Assurance Company and the Cape Breton Development Corporation.
ARTICLE 23 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
For the purpose of this clause, immediate family is defined as spouse, father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, father-inlaw, mother-in-law, stepparent, grandparents, grandchildren,
32
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, and includes any relative permanently residing in the employee's household or with whom the employee resides.
An employee shall, after having completed three months cumulative service, be entitled to absence with pay in the event of a bereavement in the immediate family for a maximum of three consecutive scheduled working days, if required. Such leave may be extended due to exceptional circumstances at the sole discretion of management.
In the event an employee is required to cease work during one of his rostered shifts due to bereavement in the family, he will be paid for the unworked portion of that shift and that day will not be counted as a bereavement day.
At the discretion of the Corporation, leave with pay may be granted to employees in exceptional or emergency circumstances preventing them from reporting for or remaining on duty.
It is understood that this clause will not be applicable to employees who so qualify and are off work due to vacation, sickness, compensable accident or without pay.
ARTICLE 24-JURY DUTY
Leave of Absence with pay shall be given to every employee other than an employee on leave of absence without pay, or under suspension, who is required to serve on a jury, provided that the employee turns over to the Corporation all sums of money received as a result of his jury duty. Such employee will be expected at all times to keep the Corporation advised as to the dates and times that he is required to serve in such jury duty.
«jb
ARTICLE 25 - SHIFT DIFFERENTIALS
For the purpose of this clause, the following shall apply:
33
(a) Day Shift Work Shall be defined as work performed by employees working their regularly scheduled shift between the following hours:
1.	6 a.m.	to 2 p.m.
2.	7 a.m.	to 3 p.m.
3.	8 a.m.	to 4 p.m,
4.	8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
(b) Night Shift Work shall be defined as work petformed by employees working their regularly scheduled shift between the following hours:
1.	11 a.m. to 7 p.m.
2.	3 p.m. to 11 p.m.
3.	4 p.m. to 12 p.m.
4.	4:30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m.
(c)	Back Shift Work shall be defined as work performed by employees working their regularly scheduled shift between the following hours:
1.	9 p.m. to 5 a.m.
2.	11 p.m. to 7 a.m
3.	12 a.m. to 8 a.m,
4.	12:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m
(d)	Shift differentials shall be paid at the rate i worked on night shift and $.35 per hourworked on backshift.
(e)	Shift differentials will not be paid to day shift workers who are scheduledonthe normal day shift, but will, except otherwise provided in (9 below, be paid to them for work performed on other than the normal day shift hours worked after the termination of their respective shift in accordance with paragraph (d) above.
(9 Differentialsshall not apply to:
1.	Day or shift workers on overtime work.
2.	In the calculation of statutory holiday and annual vacation pay.
34
3.	Pay for hours not actually worked
4.	Overtime shall not be calculated on shift differentials.
All shift starting times are subject to change upon prior notice.
(g) Underground Differential
An “underground” differential of $3.00 per eight (8) hour day will be paid to underground employees.
(h) Reporting Form Adjustment-Applicableto Shotfirers& Mine Examiners Only.
Effective April 1,1980 - .05 cents per hour.
Effective September 1, 1980 - the current rate of .05 cents per hour shall be increasedto .115 cents per hour.
NOTE: In order to qualify for payment under this provision the Reporting Form must be satisfactorily completed each shift.
ARTICLE 26- SAFETY CLOTHING
(a) Three (3) pairs coveralls will be issued to underground employees and, where applicable* two (2) pair will be issued to surface employees free of charge every twelve months.
CONDITIONS:
1.	It shall be mandatory for employees to wear the safety coveralls at all times while on the job unless express permission to the contrary is granted by the colliery manager or his authorized representative.
2.	Safety coveralls are not to be worn by employees off the job. If worn off the job, employees may be subject to prosecution in the courts.
3.	Used coveralls (Devco Safety Coveralls) must be turned in
35
before any replacement will be issued.
‘Coveralls shall not be issued by the employer to employees working in offices or other sedentary positions.
(b)The Corporation will also, during the same period, issue, free of charge, to each employee one pair of leather boots and one pair of knee rubber boots and two pair of leather work gloves of the kind normally stocked in its warehouse.
ARTICLE 27 - RETIREMENTALLOWANCE
A retirementallowanc/of $956.59l3january 1/90) will be paid to each active employee Wthe-date'of his normal retirement (age 65) and to disabled pensioned employees on reaching 65 (not applicableto Pre-Retirement Leave).
Escalation:
The retirementallowance of $956.59 shall be escalated annually for cost-of-living increases commencing January 1, 1991, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases, and, if the aforementioned formula by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the retirement allowance is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
ARTICLE 28 -TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
28:01 For all purposes of the Collective Agreement, “technological change: shall have the meaning defined in the Canada Labour Code. For the purposes of the technological change provisions of the Collective Agreement, an “incumbent” shall mean any employee who has attained ten (10) years of service from his recent date of hire.
No incumbent shall be laidoff from the Corporation due to technological change, provided that any incumbent, if required by the orporation due to any technologicalchange, shall submitto
reasonable retraining by or under the auspices of the Corporation and shall accept transfer to any operating site within the Corporation. Nothing in this provision shall be construed as a waiver by any employee, whether incumbent or otherwise, of his right under the Canada Labour Code to make an application in respect of technologicalchange.
28:02 In the event of the installation of new mechanical, electronic or automated equipment that will affect the job status of any employees in the bargaining unit, the Corporation will, as far ip advance as practical before the installation of such equipment, meet with the Union Grievance Committee and provide the Committ'ee'wTfh data regarding proposed installation, number, and classification or'emplovees likely to be affected by such installation.
ARTICLE 29 - JOB POSTING
29:01 When the Corporation determines that a permanent vacancy exists within the bargaining unit, the corporation will post notice of the position at all of its operational sites for a period of ten (10) working days. All interested bargaining unit employees must apply in writing for the position within the ten (10) /^y posting period.	^
29:02 Infilling a permanentvacancy, preference will be given to applicants who have the required qualifications and are immediately able to do the work. When the Corporation determines that two (2)or more applicants possess equal qualifications and ability, the applicants most recent contiqu^j£flgtugt§gD(ip^ with the Corporation will be determining factor.
29:03 If, in the Corporation's opinion there are no qualified applicants from within the bargaining unit who apply for permanent vacancy, the Corporation may, at its discretion, select the best applicant according to the criteria in paragraph :02 of this article and implement a training or familiarization period for that employee in the new position or the Corporation may advertise for and fill the permanentvacancy with applicants outside the bargaining unit who will not require such a training or famiiiari-
37
zation period.
29:04 Whenever possible, the Corporation will attempt to select the successful applicant for the permanent vacancy within the ten (10) working days following the expiration of the posting period outlined in paragraph :01 hereof. The Union will be advised of the successful applicant when the Corporation makes its selection.
29:05 Where it is known in advance that a temporary position of sixty (60) calendar days duration or longer exists, the Corporation will post such position in accordance with Article 29.01 above.
29:06 In the event any employee becomes incumbent in a temporary position under29.05, and such position becomes permanent, the positionwill be posted under29.01.
ARTICLE 30 - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
30:01 The Corporation agrees to pay a severance..allowance to an employee whose employment is permanently terminated because of lackofwprk.
30:02 The severance allowance payable in each case will {^determined as follows:
(a) For the first year of service, severance pay equivafernto three (3) weeks pay at the applicable datal rate;
(b) For each year of completed service thereafter, severance pay equivalent to two (2)wge,ks pay atthe applicable datal rate. Notwithstanding the aBove, no employee entitled to a severance allowance shall receive less than eight (8) weeks severance pay at the applicable datal rate nor more than sixteen (16).., weeks severance pay at the applicable datal rate.
30:03 Employees entitled to a severance allowance will also be entitled to a Weekly Severance Unemployment Benefit. That benefit shall be equivalent to the Supplementary Unemploy-
38
merit Benefit as provided in Article 30 and calculated on the basis of the value of that benefit at the time of termination. The Benefit shall be received during the employee's period of Unemployment Insurance Benefit subsequent to termination to a maximum of 52 weeks. Employees receiving this Benefit are not entitled to receive the Supplementary Unemployment Benefit.
30:04 The provisions of this Article are intended to minimize impact of the termination of employment of employees. Therefore, this payment under this article shall be the maximum payment for the purpose of any severance allowance provisionsin any Adjustment Program pursuantto S. 60:11 through S. 60:15 of the Group Termination Provisions of Part III of the Canada Labour Code. For the purpose of severance allowance payment only those sections do not apply.
ARTICLE31 - SUPPLEMENTARYUNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
A Supplementary Unemployment Benefit of fifty-seven dollars andthirty-eightcents ($57.38) per week will be paid by the corporation in the event of downtime in a colliery or department under the following terms and conditions:
(1)	The downtime must not have resulted either directly or indirectly from any action of any employee covered by this Agreement.
(2)	The employee's gross earnings for the weekly pay period must not have exceeded a sum equal to three times the basic classification rate in effect at the time of the downtime.
(3)	The Supplementary Unemployment Benefit will not be paid con current with the payment of paid sick leave under Article 13 or monthly income insurance under Appendix "A'of this agreement or to employee's on Workers Compensation. (For the purpose of this section only Indemnity shall also include benefits received under the Unemployment Insurance Sickness Benefit regulations).
39
(4)	Employees who are already receiving benefits from the Unemployment Insurance Commission are not eligible to receive Supplementary UnemploymentBenefft.
(5)	Payment of Supplementary Unemployment Benefits will be limited to a maximum period of twelve (12) months.
(6)	Downtime shall not include Legal Holidays or Vacation Days. Escalation
The Supplementary Unemployment Benefit of fifty-seven dollars and thirty-eight cents (57.38) per weekly pay period, as described inthe Collective Agreement, shall be escalated annually for cost-of-living increases commencing January 1, 1991, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases, and, if the aforementioned formula by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the Supplementary Unemployment Benefit is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
ARTICLE 32 - DEATH BENEFITS FOR PENSIONERS
It is agreed that subject to the exceptions outlined in this Article, there will be a deduction often (10) cents from each employee and the amount so deducted shall be added to Corporation Payment of $750.00 and paid to the beneficiary upon the death of any person who retired priorto November 1, 1965, underthe provisions of the 1923 Pension Plan provided that such persons had no benefits under the current Group Life Insurance Plan. For the purposes of this Article, an employee who was on the books of the Dominion Coal Col. Ltd. or Old Sydney Collieries Ltd., but off work at November 1, 1965, and who died priorto returning to work, the beneficiary shall be considered eligible for the Death Benefit as outlined herein.
If the Government accepts responsibility and a Compensation
40
Pension had been paid or if the former employee is on a “burnt-out” pension, there will be a ten cent deduction from employees but no $750.00 contribution by the Corporation.
ARTICLE 33 - COMPASSIONATE LUMP SUM PAYMENT
The Corporation shall, subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, make a compassionate lump sum payment not to exceed $25,000.00 to the widow and wholly dependent children of any employee who is fatally injured while at his work place.
1 .The maximum sum payable to the widow shall be $10,000.00. In cases where the deceased employee has no surviving widow, then the principal sum of $10,000.00 which would otherwise have been payable to the widow shall be made to the legal guardian, if any, for the benefit of the deceased employees' wholly dependent children.
2.The maximum sum payable in respect to wholly dependent children shall be $15,000.00 calculated on the following basis:
(a)	For each wholly dependent child $5,000.00 to a maximum of three children or $15,000.00 each.
(b)	In cases where there are more than three wholly dependent children the amount per child shall be determined by dividing $15,000.00 by the total number of wholly dependent children.
ARTICLE34 - CONTRACT NEGOTIATION MEETINGS
The Corporation accepts the Union’s proposed language covering leave from work with, pay to attend contract negotiation meetirfgsrarbitfatfbri and conciliation meetings. It is further understood that such payment applies only to past matters on behalf of members under CBRT & GW 509 jurisdiction. Effective signing date of the combined collective agreement of the Corporation will recognize two (2) Union representatives of the merged unit.	£
41
Time off for Union Business
Where operational requirements permit, managementwill grant reasonable time off work with pay to not more than two Union representativeswho are meeting with the Corporation on matters pertainingto the Collective Agreement.
Appendix “A”
Position Position	Standard Hours
Grade Title	of work week
13	*Design Draftsman	35
12	Senior Transitman	40
	Draftsman 1	35
11	Transitman	40
	Laboratory Technician	35
10	Draftsman II	35
09	Compassman	40
08
07	Stonedust Sampler	40
	Coal Inspector Sampler	40
	Laboratory Assistant	35
06	Draftsman III	35
05	Chainman	40
	Junior Draftsman	35
04	Draftsman -Trainee	35
• Limited to not more than two employees at any one time in each of the Mining and Mechanical Drafting Departments.
42
APPENDIX “A-1
Position Positron	Standard Hours
Grade Title	of work week
14 Systems Programmer	35
Senior SystemsAnalyst	35
Accounts Rec/Sales Tax Clerk	35
Cashier/Expense Account Clerk	35
13	Int. SystemsAnalyst	35
Senior Programmer	35
CustomsTraffic Agent	35
12	Buyer I	35
Programmer	35
User Support Co-ordinator	35
11 Machine Operator	35
Sr. Inventory Control Clerk	35
Buyer II	35
Accounts Payable Expeditor	35
Senior Receiving Clerk	35
Reorder Clerk	35
10	Distribution Clerk	35
Accounting Clerk	35
Payroll Control Clerk	35
Asst. Planner (V.J. Plant)	40
Storekeeper (Central Shops)	40
09	Sr. Colliery Clerk/Timekeeper	40
Storekeeper	40
Inventory Control Clerk	35
Buyer III	35
08 Colliery Clerk/Timekeeper	40
Receiving Clerk	40
Materials Co-ordinator	40
43
07 Coal Sales Clerk Weighman Biller I Work Station Operator Purchasing Clerk
06	Office Services Clerk
Stores Attendant Weighman BillerII Weighman RecordsClerk/Typist Safety Records Clerk Tape Librarian -Typist Assistant Maintenance Planner
05	Shipping Clerk Operator
Utility Clerk
03	Data Entry Operator
Clerk Typist (Stores)
02	Clerk Typist
Receptionist/Clerk
APPENDIX “B1
40
40
35
35
35
40
40
40
35
35
35
40
35
35
35
35
35
35
LIST OF GROUPS
Group 1
Weighman, Coal Sales Clerk, Weighman Biller, Coal Records and Distribution Clerk, Cashier/Expense Account Clerk, Accounts Receivable/Sales Tax Clerk, Clerk/Timekeeper, Senior Clerk/TImekeeper, Payroll Control Clerks, Clerk Typist, Work Station Operator, Print Room Operator, Invoice Clerk, Receptionist, Distribution Clerk, Mail Clerk, Billing Clerk, Safety Records Clerk, (Expeditor Accounts Payable), Buyers, Customs Clerk, Inventory Control Clerk, Buyers Clerk, Receiving Clerk,
44
^t»
Storekeepers, Stores Attendants, Materials CO-Coordinators, Assistant Planners.
Group 2
Management Information Systems positions.
Group 3
Transitman, Compassman, Chainman, Stonedust Sampler, Coal Sampler, Shotfirer, Mine Examiner.
Group 4
Design Draftsman, Draftsman 1,11, III Group 5
Process Assistant (Carbogel), Lab Assistant (Carbogel), Plant Operator (Carbogel), Lab Analyst, Lab Assistant.
ARTICLE 35- DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Aar_e.amaritshaltexpire December 31. 1992 and shall be renewed from year to year thereafter, with the same provisions as herein contained, unless one of the signatory parties notifies the other, in writing; not later than the 1st day of October, 1992 or the 1st day of October of any automatic renewal year, of its intention to review or amend the Agreement or to conclude a new Agreement.
It is understood and agreed that should Lingan Colliery cease production prior to December 31, 1991, that the Collective Agreement shall be considered as expiring on December 31, 1991.
45
Signed on behalf of:
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENTCORPORATION
CANADIAN BROTHERHOODCF RAILWAY
TRANSPORT & GENERAL WORKERS LOCAL504
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 4
October9, 1985
Mr. Thomas Barron National Representative Canadian Brotherhood of Railway, Transport& General Workers P.O. Box 661 Sydney, Nova Scotia B1 P6H7
RE: PREFERRED PLACES IN MINE
Dear Sir:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached today, during wage negotiations, between the persons signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Corporation agrees that when a vacancy occurs for a position of Mine Examiner, tj^s-Swior SHiotflrer applying at the mine where the vacancy occurs, shall be appointed to the position provided he has the qualifications for performing the job. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, ifthere is a shotfirer irrespective of his seniority, for whom a case can be made on a bonafide medical/physical grounds, then before any appointment is made representatives of management and Local 510, CBRT & GW shall first meet and, if their is Union concurrence, he shall be appointed to the position on compassionate grounds provided he has the qualifications for performing the job.
I you concur in the above, please indicate in the space provided.
Yours very truly,	I concur,
Thomas Barron
W.A. Gouthro	National Representative
Director of Employee Relations	CBRT & CW
47
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 5
October 9, 1985
Mr. Thomas Barron National Representative Canadian Brotherhood of Railway,
Transport& General Workers P.O. Box 661 Sydney, Nova Scotia B1P6H7
Dear Sir:
RE: LUNCH
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto, respecting the above mentioned matter.
Where notification is given to an employee that he will be required to work overtime the following day, such employee shall make provision to bring his own lunch. When the overtime assignment extends beyond the four hours, the Corporation will, where possible, provide a lunch. **
Yours very truly,
W.A. Gouthro
Director of Employee Relations
Cape Breton DevelopmentCorporation
agree,
Thomas Barron National Representative Canadian Brotherhood of Railway, Transport& General Workers
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 6
May 18, 1982
Mr. George Boudreau Canadian Brotherhood of Railway,
Transport& General Workers 1657 Barrington Street Halifax, Nova Scotia
RE: SURVEYORS- PRODUCTION WALL FACE RATE MAKE-UP PAYMENT
Dear Sir:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached during the contract negotiations between the parties signatory hereto, in respectto the above-mentioned matter, to the effectthat when a survey party is required by management to work on a production wall face and carry out functions listed below, they shall be paid their regular rate of pay plus the difference between their regular rate of pay for the shift and the production wall fac rate cf pay for UMW of A employee. This to be effective date of signing
If you concur with the above, please indicate in the space provided.
1.	A production wall face survey.
2,	Production wall face - standard quota
measurements.
Yours very truly,
I agree,
Carl Turner Vice-president, Human Resources Cape Breton 
George Boudreau
Canadian Brotherhood of Railway,
Transports General Workers
49
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 7 October9,1985
Mr. Thomas Barron National Representative Canadian Brotherhood of Railway,
Transport & General Workers P.O. Box 661 Sydney, Nova Scotia B1P6H7
Dear Sir:
RE: LAY-OFF NOTICE
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto, respecting the above mentioned matter.
The Corporation agrees that when Management is aware in advance of a reduction in the work force, employees so affected by the reduction shall be given a minimum of five (5) days notice of lay-off prior to the effective date of the lay-off, except in circumstanceswhere the lay-off is a result of a bump in accordance with Article 8 of the Collective Agreement.
Yours very truly,	I agree,
W,A. Gouthio , Director of Employee
Relations
Thomas Barron
National Representative
Canadian Brotherhood of Railway .Transport & General Workers
50
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
90 - 4.0%	Eff. Jan. 1 / 91 - 4.0%	Eff. Jan. 1 / 92 - 5.0%
TECHNICAL POSITIONS- 35 HOURS PER WEEK
1990
Start Fst. Prog. Standard
2461.32 2598.06 2734.80
2398.13	2531.35 2664.58
2343.76	2473.97 2604.18 2297.00 2424.61 2552.22 2256.54 2381.90 2507.26
2221.15	2344.54 2467.94
2195,86	2317.85 2439.84 2168.05 2288.49 2408.94
2141.50	2260.47 2379.45 2107.36 2224.43 2341.51 2074.49 2189.74 2304.99
2042.90	2156.40 2269.89
1991
Start Fst. Prog. Standard
2559.78	2701.99	2844.20
2494.05 2362.61	2771.75
2437.51	2572.93	2708.35
2388.88 2521,60	2654.31
2346.80 2477.18	2607.55
2309.99 2438.33	2566.66
2283.69	2410.56	2537.43
2254.77	2380.03	2505.30
2227.16	2350.89	2474.63
2191,65	2313,41	2435.17
2157.47	2277.33	2397.19
2124.62 2242.65	2360.69
1992
Start Fst. Prog. Standard
2687,77	2837.09	2986.41
2618.75	2764.24	2909.73
2559.39	2701.58 2843.77
2508.32	2647.68	2737.03
2464.14	2601.03	2727.93
2425.49	2560.24	2694.99
2397.87	2531.09 2664.31
2367.51	2499.04	2360.56
2338.52	2468.44	2598.36
2301.23	2429.08	2556.93
2265,35	2391.20	2517.05
2230,85	2354.79	2478.72
Pos
Grac
13
12
11
10
9
a
7
6
5
4
3
2
/ 90 - 4.0%	Eff. Jan. 1 / 91 - 4.0%	Eff. Jan. 1 / 92 - 5.0%
TECHNICAL POSITIONS- 40 HOURS PER WEEK
1990
Start Fst. Prog. Standard
2439.83	2575.38 2710.93
2385.48	24518.01 2650.53 2338.71	2468.64 2598.56
2298.25	2425.93 2553.61
2264.11	2389.89 2515.68
2237.56 2361.87 2486.18
2209.75	2332.51 2455.27
2171.83	2292.49 2413.14 2149.07 2268.47 2387,86 2116.22 2233.79 2351.36 2084.60 2200,41 2316.23 u
1991
Start Fst. Prog. Standard
2537.43 2678,40	2819.36
2480,90	2618.73 2756.55
2432,26	2567.38 2702.51
2390.17	2522.96	2655.75
2354.67 2485.49	2616.30
2327.07 2456.35 2585.63
2298,14	2425.81	2553.48
2258,70	2384.19 2509.67 2235,04 2359.21	2483.38
2200.87	2323.14	2445.41
2167.99 2288.43	2408.87
1992
Start Fst. Prog. Standard
2664.30	2812.32	2960.33
2604.94	2749,66	2894.38
2553.87	2695.75	2837.63
2509.68	2649,11	2788,54
2472.41	2609,76	2747,12
2443.42	2579.17	2714.91
2413.04	2547.10	2681.16
2371.64	2503.39	2635.15
2346.79	2477.17	2607.54
2310.91	2439,30	2567.68
2276.39	2402.85	2529.32
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
/ 90 -4.0%	Eff. Jan. 1 / 91 - 4.0%
CLERICAL POSITIONS- 35 HOURS PER WEEK
1990
1991
Start Fst. Prog. Standard
Start Fst. Prog. Standard
Start
2491.36 2419.63 2356.41 2302.04 2256.54 2214.81 2183,18 2156.68 2131.38 2106.09 2077.03 2052.59 2020.14
2629.77
2554.06
2487,32
2429.93
2381.90
2337.86
2304.47
2276.49
2249.79
2223.10
2192.42
2166.62
2132.37
u
2768,18
2688.48
2618.23
2557.82
2507.26
2460.80
2425,76 2396.31 2368.20
2340.10
2307.81
2280,66
(S244.60,
2591.01 2734,96	2878.91
2516.42	2656.22	2796.02
2450.66	2586.81	2722.96
2394.12	2527.12	2660.13
2346.80 2477.18	2607.55
2303.40	2431.37	2559.34
2270.51 2396.65	2522,79
2242.94	2367.55	2492.16
2216.64 2339.79	2462.93
2190.34 2312.02	2433.71
2160.11	2280.12	2400.12
2134.70	2253.29	2371.88
2100.95	2217 67, .2334.38
2720.57 2642.24 2573.20 2513.82 2464.14
2418.57 2384.04 2355.09 2327.47 2299.85 2268.12 2241.43 2205.99
Eff. Jan. 1 / 92 - 5.0%
1992
Fst. Prog. Standard
2871.71	3022.85 2789.03 2935,82
2716.15	2859.11
2653.48	2793.14
2601.13	2737.93
2552.94	2687.30
2516.48	2648.93 2485.93 2616.77
2456.78	2586.08 2427.62 1555.39
2394.12	2520.13
2365.95	2490.48 2328.5^2451.10 )
Eff, Jan. 1 / 90 - 4.0%	Eff. Jan. 1 /91 • 4,0%
CLERICAL POSITIONS-40 HOURS PER WEEK
2
1990
1991
Pos.
Grade
Start Pst. Prog. Standard
Start F$t. Prog. Standard
Start
14
13
12
11
10
9
a
7
6
5
4
3
2
2471.46
2413.32
2362.74
22315,95
2280,55
22252.75
2223,67
2195.86
2165,52
2t 33.91
2102,30
2608.76
2547,39
2494,00
2444,62
2407,24
2377.90
2347,21
2317.85
2285,83
2252.46
2219,10
2746,07
2681,46
2625,26
2573,28
2533.94
2503,05
2470,75
2439,84
2406.13
2371.01
2335,89
2570,30
2509.85 2457,24 2408,59 2371,77
2342.86 2312,62 2283.69 2252,14 2219.27 2186,39
2713,12
2649,29
2593,76
2542.40
2503,53
2473,01
2441,10
2410.56 2377,26
2342.56 2307,86
2855,91
2788,72
2730,27
2676,21
2635,30
2603,17
2569,58
2537,43
2502.38
2465.85
2429,33
2698,84
2635.34
2580.11
2529,02
2490.36
2460.00
2428,25
2397,87
2364,75
2330,23
2295,71
Eff. Jan. 1/92-5.0%
1992
Fst. Prog. Standard
2648,77 2998.71 2781,75 2928.16 2723,45 2866,79 2669,52 2810,02 2628,71 2767,06 2596,67 2733,33 2563,15 2696,06 2531,09 2664,31 2496,12 2627,50 2459,69 2589,15 2423,25 2550,79