COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
N.B. COAL LIMITED MINTO, NB/V BRUNSWICK
AND
THE UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
DISTRICT NO. 26, LOCAL 7409
14 1995
NOVEMBERS), 1994 TO NOVEMBERS, 1996
0OI
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
g
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
CONTENTS
Purpose of Agreement Recognition Application Status of Agreement Union Security Management Rights Employment Hours of Labour Attendance at Work Guarantee of Work Wages and Overtime Group Medical- Life Insurance Vacations with Pay Holidayswith Pay CompassionateLeave Severance Allowance PrivateVehicles and Transportation Suspension and Discharge Grievance Procedure Arbitration Mine Committee Continuation of Work Continuationof Operation Maintenance Men Suspension of Mining Indefinite Shutdown Duration of Agreement Amendment
Termination of Agreement Obligation
Safety, Health, Accident Call Out
Job Classifications Banking Overtime
WHEREAS the United Mine Workers of America, District 26, Local 7409, Minto, N.B., hereinafter called "the Union” has been certified as the bargaining representative of employees of N.B. Coal Limited, Minto, N.B., hereinafter called “the Company”, working in and around the Company’s mine includingstripping operations;
NOW THEREFORE the Union and the Company declare that they have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE 1
PU RPOSE OF AGREEMENT
1 -01 The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain harmonious and mutually beneficial relationships betweenthe Company, the employees and the United Mine Workers of America, to set forth certain terms and conditions of employment relating to renumeration, hours of work, employee benefits and general working conditions affecting employees covered by this agreement and to ensure that all reasonable measures are provided for the safety and occupational health of the employees.
1.02	The partiesto this agreement share a desire to cooperate fully to attain these objectives and to establishwithin the framework provided by law, an effective working relationshipat all levels of coal operations in which members of the Union are employed.
ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION
2.01 Tlie Company recognizesthe Union as the exclusive agent for all employees described in the certificate issued by the Labour Relations Board on the 27th day of February, 1970.
1
3.01	ARTICLE 3 APPLICATION The provisionsof this Agreement apply to the Union, Employees, and the Company.
3.02	This Agreement does not apply to an employee while he is on early-retirement leave, other than recognizing the right of the Unionto acton behalf of such employee
	ARTICLE4 STATUS OFTHIS AGREEMENT
4.01	It is hereby understoodthat no custom or condition in effect at the mine operationswill be changed without prior consultation by both parties to this Agreement. In this connection, the Company will undertake to notify the Union of any proposed changes.
4.02	No laws or rules shall be made by the Union in violation of this Agreement; and it is recognizedthat the provisionsof this Agreement have precedent over national,district, and local Union constitutions
4.03	The provision of this Agreement shall be in conformity with the mining laws of the Provinceof New Brunswick and the Company and the Union agree to cooperate in observance of these laws.
4.04	Any provision of this Agreement which shall be contrary to the lawsofthe Provinceof New Brunswick and the Dominionof Canada shall be considered null and void without affecting the validity of the remaining provisionsof the Agreement.
4.05	From time-to-time, the Union and the Company may enter into written agreementswith respect to the rights 4
	benefits, and privileges of the Company, the Union, and the employee. Such agreements become part of the Collective Agreement if so specified in the written agreement.
5.01	ARTICLE 5 UNION SECURITY Any employee on whose behalf the Union is entitled to act as bargaining representative and who is a member of the Union or who becomes a member or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing
5.02	Any employee shall become a member of the Union after one (1) days employment with the Company.
5.03	It is agreed, when a extension or expansion of mining operations commences, that members of the Union shall have preference for any job opportunities created and that such employees shall be covered underthe existing contract with N.B. Coal Limited, and that the Company and Union shall consult in an effort to reach an understanding of the method of job allocation to be put in effect.
5.04	An employee who serves in a supervisory position with the Company for a period in excess of sixty (60) days during a contract year will cease to be a member of the bargaining unit.
	ARTICLES MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
6.01	It is recognizedthat the right to manage and operate the Company and direct the working force, including 3
the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just and reasonable cause, or to relieve employees from duty because of lack of work, is vested exclusively in the Company, subject to the other provisionsof this Agreement. It is further recognized that all matters not limited by the terms of this Agreement are reserved to Management.
ART1CLE7
EMPLOYMENT
7.01	The Company and the Unionagreethattherewill be no discrimination against any employee because of race, creed, color, national origin, or union activity.
7.02	VUien engaging men, the company will give preference to Union members, if such are available.
7.03	No application for employmentshall become effective unless and until approved by the Human Resources Department.
7.04	An employeewho leaves his position to acceptan elective or appointive position with the United Mine Workers of America will be given employment by the Company at the expirationof his official duties, providinga job is availableand he is capable of performingthe duties of the job. For purposes of any retirement, unemployments supplementary benefits given by the Company to its employees upon leaving the services of the Company, a person who at the expiration of his official duties shall be eligiblefor such benefits as if he were an employee of the Company during that period in which he held an elective or appointed position with the Union.
4
7.05	“Seniority” means the length of continuous employment with the Company which an employee has accumulated.
7.06	(a) An employeeshall acquire seniority after he has
worked a total of fifteen (15) days within a twelve (12) month period. After the 15 day period has expired, the seniority date shall be the date of hiring. Duringthe 15 day period, an employee is probationary.
(b)	A newly hired employee who works less than six (6) months, shall be entitled to recall after lay-off for up to six (6) months from lay-off date.
(c)	Should a newly hired employee work more than six (6) months and less than twelve (12) months, he shall be entitled to recall after lay-off for up to twelve(12) monthsfrom lay-off date.
7.07	An employeewho has acquired seniority shall lose his seniority if he ceases to be a member of the Union or an employee of the Company.
7.08	Where there is a reduction in the working force, the following procedure shall be used:
(a)	those employees who have not acquired seniority shall be laid off first;
(b)	thereafter, employeeswill be laid off in the order in which they appear on the seniority list of the Company, according to actual length of employment, the employee having the least seniority to be laid off first providedthat an employee who has less seniority than another may be retained by the Company because cf the skills, experience and efficiency which that employee possesses or displays.
5
7.09	When there is an increase in the working force after a lay off. employees who still retain seniority with the Company shall be returned to their work, when the same becomes available in the reverse order in which they were laid off, provided that the Company is able to maintain a work force of employees that are capable and willing to perform the work available.
7.10	(a) Anemployeewho has been laid off will be recalled
by the Company if the employee is suited for the vacant position.
(b)	The Company will advise the employee by registered mail with a copy to the local union, allowing the employee seven days to make arrangementswith the Company to return to work.
(c)	Notice of Layoff: During the life of this Agreement, the Companywill provideto members of the Union who are affected by a layoff, two (2) weeks notice of a layoffwhenever it is possible to provide such notice.
7.11	Any employee when recalled who fails to returnto work within five (5) working days from receipt of notice of recall, shall cease to be an employeeof the Company.
7.12	In the event of the creation of a newjob or vacancy caused by death, retirement, quit or discharge, and subject to the Company’s right pursuant to Article 6.01, the Company shall first offer the said job to employees of the Company by posting a notice of job vacancy for all positions covered under this Agreement.
7.13	Anemployeewho has attained seniority who wishes to apply for a posted job vacancy shall do so in writing to the General Manager.
6
7.14	When a job vacancy occurs pursuantto 7.12, notice will be posted within seven (7) calendar days. Postings will be for a seven (7) calendar day period. When the job posting expires, it shall be filled within fourteen (14) calendar days by the successful applicant. Temporary job vacancies may be filled up to thirty (30) calendar days without posting. In filling job vacancies, preference shall be given to senior employees, if they have the experience and ability.
Employees may apply for lower paying positions if they so desire.
7.15	If no suitable applications are received, the Company may fill the job vacancy from outside the work force.
7.16	(a) If a shutdown and/or a cutback of an operation
occurs, the employee has the right to use his seniority to bump into another job providing he can do the work which will be evaluated after a ten (10) day training period.
(b)	In the case of an employee who uses his seniority rights to bump into the dragline operator classification, the training period will be extended to twenty-one (21) calendar days. To become entitled to this training program the employee will be subjected to an initial evaluation where he will be required to demonstrate that he possessesthe qualifications and potential to become an efficient operator. Subsequent to the training program the employee will be subjected to a final evaluation to ensure he meets the requirementsof the job.
(c)	If the employee is unsuccessful after the training period stipulated in a) or b) above, he will be placed in a position at the discretion of the Company, seniority being the determiningfactor.
7
(d)	An employee who is bumped has the right to exercise nis seniority as per a) or b) above.
(e)	The employee shall exercise his seniority to bump within a period of twenty-one (21) calendar days from notice of hisdtsptacement.
7.17	(a) An employee who bids on a job posting and is
successful, will not be entitled to bid on any other job posting fora period of six (6) months from the day he was first placed in that position asa result of the competition.
(b)	Asucoessful applicantto a job posting who sub sequently loseshisjobdueto lay off or being bumped by another employee will not be subject to 7.17 a) above,
(c)	Effective on November 20,1989, an employee newly Indenturedln an apprenticeship program shall not be allowed to bid for another position until having served for a period of three (3) years as ajourneyman In that trade.
7.18	(a) Temporary job vacancies of a duration in excess
of thirty (30)calendar days will be posted for seven (7j!alendar days. Insuch cases, employees may bid for equivalent, higher or lower paying positions if they so desire. Notwithstanding section 7.17, the successful candidate will beentitledto bid for any other jobvacancy in accordance with section 7.14.
(b)	UponcOmpletlng the temporary job assignment, the employee will returnto hisown regular Ido.
(c)	The job vacated by the successful candidate to a temporary job vacancy wtll not be filled by the job bid process.
8
TEMPORARY JOB REPLACEMENT
7.19	(a) Definition:"Temporary Replacement"meansa
person who is hired for a short period, up to 90 days cumulative in each year to solely replace regular bargaining unit employeeswho are absent due to short term sickness, short term accident, vacation or leave of absence.
(b)	Temporary Replacement persons shall not accumulate any seniority and shall not become members of the bargaining unit. Howeverthese persons will be deducted regular union dues.
(c)	Temporary Replacementpersonswill be employed as labourersonly. There can be no Temporary Replacement persons employed while bargainingunit employees are on lay-off.
(d)	It is understood that the Temporary Replacement personswill be paid at the rate of 65% of Labourer rate provided for in Appendix "A'of the collectiveagreement.
(e)	The Temporary Replacement persons shall not work any overtime or shall not be eligible to work any premium rated time.
(f)	The Company and the Union agree that Temporary Replacement persons must not be used by the Company to reduce the total number of employees in the bargainingunit and must not result in the failure of the Company to post job vacancies in normal fashion. In any grievance or arbitration that pertainto temporary replacement, the Company shall have the burden that there was no violation of the CollectiveAgreement.
9
ARTICLE 8
HOURS OF LABOUR
8.01	All labour, other than for shift operations, will commence work at 7:00 a. m. Quitting time will be 3:30 p.m. with a half hourfor dinner.
8.02	Where continuousattendance is required, a shift will consist of eight (8) hours(7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.; 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.; 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.).
8.03	Where a two shift operation is required, a shift will consist of eight(8)hours(7:00 a.m. to3:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.)
8.04	(a) The work day is defined as the twenty-four hour
period beginning with the start of the employee's shift.
(b)	When an employee’s regular hoursof work are rescheduled by the Company, the employee will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times for the first eight (8) hours worked under the revisedschedule.
(c)	Upon being re-assigned to hisregularhoursof work, the employee will be providedwith a periodof eight(8) hoursof restwithoutlossof pay before resumingwork.
ARTICLE 9
ATTENDANCE AT WORK
9.01	It is recognizedby both parties to be the duty of employees to report regularly and punctually for work.
9.02	Regularity of Work-N.B. Coalandthe Unionagree thatconscientiousand regularwork isessentialto theagreedobjectivesof rnaintainingemployment at good wages, and both partiestherefore recognize that absenteeism isaserious obstacle to their objectives. Accordingly, the Company and the
10
Union agree that it is a condition of continued employment that no employeewill be absent from a regular shift other than for reasons(such as compensable accident or welfare) already known to the Company, unless he gives his immediate supervisor notice of his intended absence, along with a satisfactory reason for same at least two (2) hours before the starting time of the shift. An employee shall be classified as "absentee" when an investigation by Management of a case of absenteeism fails to disclose that the employee had a satisfactory or bona fide reason.
9.03	Penalties for Absenteeism
FIRST OFFENSE- instruction and written warning from foreman.
SECOND OFFENSE- instructionandwrittenwaming from department head.
THIRD OFFENSE -meeting with manager and committeeman.
FOURTFI OFFENSE- ten (10) day suspensionwith-out pay. Duringthis period the General Manager will review the situation after consultationwith the Union and determine if discharge is war ranted.
9.04	Each two (2) days an employee is absent without a satisfactory reason will be dealt with as a separate offense. The two (2) days referred to in this clause need not necessarilybe consecutivedays.
9.05	An employee who is absentwithout leavefbr eight(8) or more shifts shall be notifiedby RegisteredLetterto hislastknown address, that unless he reportstothe Managehsoffice within two (2) days of receipt of such
11
9.06
10.01
11.01
11.02
letter, hisemploymentwith the Company shall be terminated.
It is clearly understood that should any employee havea cleared recordof atwelve(12) month period between the first offense or second offense and third offense, or after the third offense, his record shall be consideredclear.
ARTICLE 10
GUARANTEE OF WORK
It is recognized by both parties that Article 9 does not constitute a guarantee to work with respect to hours per day or hours per week.
ARTICLE 11
WAGE AND OVERTIME
(a)	A copy of the Company's wage rates, which shall remain in effect throughout the life of this Agreement, is attached hereto as Appendix A.
(b)	Rate Increases: During the life of this Agreement, the company shall have the right to negotiate with the Union an increase in the hourly wage rate for any classification.
(c)	The Company agreesto sell to its employees pit run coal for the sum of $8.00 per ton providing such coal is used as a personalheating fuel only by an employee.
All day men shall do any class of work in and around the mining operations that the Company may require of them providing they are paid scale pricefor such work.
12
11.03	(a) When the development of a new mine is begun
during the period of this Agreement, or new machinery is installed, or new methods of handling the product are adopted, the scale wages covering the labour at such new mines or under such changed conditions will be estabished by representativesof the Company and Union.
(b)	Notice of Rate Cut: during the life of this Agreement, the Company will provide to members of the Union who are affected by a reduction in rate due to being placed in a lower classification, two (2) weeks notice prior to effecting the wage rate reduction.
11.04	Overtime rate will be paid in accordance with the following:
(a)	time and one-half will be paid for time in excess of eight (8) hours or for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one working day and for time worked on Saturdays.
(b)	double time will be paid for time worked on Sundays.
(c)	double time will be paid for time worked on Statutory Holidays listed in Appendix C attached hereto.
(d)	time and one half will be paid for time worked in excessof forty (40) hours in any week (shift workers only).
11.05	Meal Provision:An employee who is required to work unscheduled overtime at the continuation of the normal work day will be provided with a meal if he is to work beyond two (2) hours of overtime. If he is required to work an additional four (4) hours he will be provided with a second meal.
13
11.06	“When an employee is assigned for more than a four (4) hour period to another classification, he will retain his current rate of pay or that of the assigned classification, whichever is higher.”
“This rate will be effective immediately and will will change immediately upon his return to his regular classification.”
11.07	(a) Effective on November20,1987 employees
assigned to the 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. shift shall receive a shift premium of thirty-five (35) cents per hour; for the 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shift, fifty (50) cents per hour. Shift premiumwill be paidon all hoursworked on 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. and11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shifts at straight time.
(b) Effective on November20,1994 employees requiredto work shiftwork in a Mondayto Friday operationwill receive the following shift differential: 11:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.: $1.00/hour 3:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m.: $0.50/hour
11.08	The appropriateshift differentialshall be paid for the first eight (8) hours of each scheduled shift on any regular scheduledday of work. However shift differential will not be paid for overtime work.
11.09	If during an employee’s regularshift, an injury occurs on thejob which requires medical attention, the employee will not bedocked for time lost the day of the accident.
1f.10 Jury Duty: The Employer shall grant leave of absence from work to an employee who is requiredto serve on a jury.
14
Such employees shall be paid the difference between his regular pay and the amount received as a Juror excluding traveling, meals, and other expenses upon presentation of a certificate of attendance for jury duty. If an employee is required to report on any day of jury duty but is not required to serve for the entire day, such employee shall then report to work.
ARTICLE 12
WEEKLY INDEMNITY, LONG TERM DISABILITY, GROUP MEDICAL AND DENTAL AND LIFE INSURANCE
(a)	The Company shall provide to each employee who has completed fifteen (15)days of work, a group medical- life insurance plan accordingto the coverage outlined in this article
(b)	FollowingSeptember30,1995, employeeswill absorb any premium increases in Supplementary Health, Dental,Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability benefits to a total maximum per employee of twenty dollars ($20) per month.
(c)	Medicare plus group plan provides coverage in the areas listed below.
(a) Weekly indemnity for twenty-six (26)weeks/ Group Insurance.
Weekly indemnity will be 66 2/3% to maximum unemployment insurance benefits. This benefit issubject to change as the maximum U.l. benefit changes.
First day coverage for non-occupational accidents. First day coverage if sick and hospitalized. Fourth day coverage for sickness.
At the conclusion of the short-term disability 15
12.01
12.02
benefits, if an employee remains disabledand is found eligiblefor long-term disability coverage, he will receivebenefitsamountingto67% of basic salary as plan outline of benefits underwritten by the insurance carrier.
12.03	LONG-TERM DISABILITY/PIAN OUTLINE
(a)	Amount of benefitis67% of monthly earnings to a maxium of $2,700.00. Benefitsare paid monthly in arrears after an eliminationperiodof 182 days. Benefitsare paidto age65. An
An amount of long-term disability benefitwhich is notan integral multiple of $1.00, will be rounded upwardsto the next$1.00.
(b)	Cost of Living Allowance: benefitswill be increasedeach January 1st in accordance with a corresponding rise inthe Consumer Price Index upto a maxium of 3% peryear.
(c)	Changes in coverage due to salary changes will only take effect ifthe insurance company is advised of the change. Each employee's certificateof insuranceoutiines the coverage which is applicableto that employee. It should be checked to make sure the coverage is correct. An employee must be actively at work in order for his insuranceto increase.
(d)	Eligible employees: All full-time permanent employeesof N.B. Coal Limitedwhoare membersof Local7409 of the United Mine Workers of America, are eligible to be insured on the 1 st day of employment.
(e)	Commencement of insurance: An employee becomes insuredwhen he becomes eligible. If an employes is absent from work on the day bis insurance would normallycommence, the
16
insurancewill not be effective until his return to work.
(9 General limitations: No benefits are payablefor any disability or charges resultingfrom any one or more of the following.
1.	intentionallyself-inflicted injury while sane or insane.
2.	war, insurrection or hostilities.
3.	participation in a riot or civil commotion.
4.	injury sustainedas a resultof committing or attempting to commit a criminal offense.
(g)	Terminationof insurance:AII insurance is terminated when the employee ceasesto be a memberof the planor ceasesto be eligible.
For benefitson termination see Extesnion of Benefits.
(h)	LONG-TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT
i)	In case of total disability, this benefit provides monthly benefit. Benefits are only provided if the claimant is under the continuing care of a legally licensed physician or surgeon. In case of disability due to mental illness, the disabled employee must be under the care of a specialist in psychiatry.
ii)	No benefits will be paid during the elimination period. If an employee ceases to be totally disabled, returns to work, and within six months again becomes totally disabled from the same or related cause, the elimination period is not applicable again. if, however, the employee returns to work for more than six months, the elimination period is again applicable.
(i)	Definitionof Total Disability: “Total disability” is definedasthe complete inability of the employee dueto accident, sickness, or injuryto perform the employee’s own jdo.
17
After the claimant has received twenty-four (24) months of benefit payments, benefits will only continue if the employee is unable to perform any and every gainful occupation for which the claimant is reasonably fitted by education, training and experience.
If the claimant returns to work, benefits will cease except if the claimant is under a rehabilitation program.
(j)	Rehabilitation provision: With the consent of the insurance company, the claimant may engage in rehabilitative employment. In such cases, the monthly benefit payable as described in the plan outline. will be reduced to the lesser of either:
i)	by 50% of the income received from the rehabilitative employment; or
ii)	to the extent necessary so that the claimant is not receiving in total any more than 100% of what such employee was earning prior to disability.
An employee may not be on rehabilitative employment for more than twenty-four (24) months,
(k)	Integration of benefits: The monthly benefit pro vided by this plan will be reduced by the amount the employee is entitled to receive from Workman's Compensationand the CanadafQuebec Pension Plan. The amount deducted will not include any benefits paid for children or any cost of living increases.
Ilan employee receives a disability income from another source (except from an individual insurance policy), benefits underthis plan will be reduced so that the total benefits received do not exceed 80% of hispre-disability earnings.
18
(I)	Extension of benefits: Inthe event of termination of insurance because of termination of employment or cancellation of the plan, benefits will continue to be paid to any employee who was disabledwhile insured up to the maximum provided for while the employee remains disabled.
12.04	(a) Major Medical-includesall dependents (wife
children).
(b)	Prescription Drugs
-	Deductible- Nil -Reimbursement-100%
-	No overall life-time maximum
-	Direct payment- Employee sends in own bills.
(c)	Semi-Private Accommodation
-	Inanylicensedgeneralhospitalat100% inside outsideCanada.
(d)	Out Patient Service
-When not covered by Medicare -Outside Canadaat reasonable charge.
(e)	Ambulance
-	Local ambulance- no limit.
(f)	PrivateRoom
-	Not covered.
(g)	Private Duty Nursing,V.O.N., and Certified NursingAssistant
-	Reasonablecharges- maximum$5,000.00 -Coverage at home as well as hospital
(h)	Diagnostic& x-ray -100% coverage.
(i)	Physiotheraphy
-100% coverage.
19
(j)	Blood& Blood Plasma
-When not provided by Red Cross.
(k)	Physician Services
-100% above medicare allowance outside province of residence.
(l)	Accidentof NaturalTeeth
-100% coverage exceptfor replacementof natural teeth ($500.00 per person maximum)
(m)	ProstheticAppliances and Devices
(n)	Oxygen covered 100%
-covered including rental of equipment and respirator.
(o)	Ostomy Supplies
-	All essential supplies covered.
(p)	Vision Care
-$75 00 eyeglass benefitevery 2 years plus eye examination every 2 years (every year for eye examination if under 21 years of age).
(q)	HearingAids
-1 hearing aid up to $300.00 in any 4 consecutive years.
(r)	Orthopedic Shoes
-1 pair per calendar year.
(s)	Chiropractor, Osteopath,etc.
-	Up to $200.00 per year
(t)	Ward Room
-	In a general hospital outside Canada in excess of charges paid by the Government Plan.
-	Reimbursementat100%
(u)	Rental of Equipment, Wheelchairs. Hospital Bed, etc.
20
-	Covered 100%
(v)	Speech Therapy and Clincial Psychology
-	Up to $200.00 peryear for each insured person.
(w)	Contact Lenses
-	$200.00 once in lifetime if vision can be improvedto atleast20f40 level and cannot be improvedto this level by spectacle lenses.
(x)	Terms of Coverage
-As long as plan in effect and legally employed with N.B. Coal Limited.
(y)	Dental
-	Deductible- Nil
-Percentageof Reimbursement-100% current scale in effect
-	No maximum
-Coverage - Oral Examinations
-	Extractions
-	Fillings
-General Preventive Dentistry -Rebasing, Relining and Adjustments to Dentures.
12.05	Group Life Insurancefor employees. Two and one-half (2 112!) the amount of basic annual earnings.
12.06	Accidental death and dismemberment for both occupational and non-occupational hazards.
ARTICLE 13 VACATIONS WITH PAY
13.01	Mine employees shall receive vacations with pay in
accordance with the provisions set out in this article.
21
13.02	Service to qualify:
	To be eligible for his first vacation, an employee must have been in the service of the Company for a continuous period of twelve(12) months. There after, when eligible, the number of vacation days to which an employee shall be entitled in any one (1) calendar year shall be based upon the period he was in the employ of the Company duringthe previous calendar year in accordance with the terms set forth in subsequent clauses.
13.03	Continuous employment:
	(a) Continuous employment shall mean employment which has not been broken by discharge for cause or voluntary separation.
	(b) Continuousemploymentwill not be broken because of separation due to illness, accident, temporary layoff, or approved leave of absence.
13.04	Calculation of days of work:
	(a) For the purpose of calculating the number of days of actualwork, in addition to taking the number of days on which work was actually performed,absences from work for the following reasons shall be counted as days of actual work:
	(i) SicknessAbsence- if supported by a medical certificatedepositedwith the Company within seven (7) days of the employee's return to work providedthat the aggregateperiodor periods of sickness in any one calendar year or period of sicknessdoes not exceed three (3) months.
	(ii) Accident Absence- if either supported by a medicalcertificate deposited with the Company within seven (7)daysof the employee's 22
return to work or by Worker's Compensation Records, provided that the aggregate period or periods of such absence in any one calendar year or period of absence does not exceed three (3) months.
(iii)	Closing of a mine or section of a mine by the Managementfor reasonsoutsidethe employee'scontrol.
(iv)	If a man is absent for any justified cause, he must prove to the satisfaction of the Manager or to the head of any auxiliary department as the case may be, that the cause for his absence was justified.
(v)	Employees granted leave of absence by a General Manager in connection with Trade Union Business,or to attend conventions of United Mine Workers of America, shall be allowed to count such absence as actual days of work. This subclause does not apply to the members of a committee of workmen who examine the workings of a mine in accordance with the provisions of the Coal Mines RegulationAct of New Brunswick who shall be considered to be absent with just cause.
(vi)	Should an employee report for work on a working day on his own shift and should find no work available to him, that day will be credited to him as a work day for vacation purposes provided he does not refuse work offered to him. Inthe event, however, that no work is available to him because of action of a fellow employee or fellow employees,that day will not be credited to him for vacation purposes as a day worked.
23
(b)	All time lost for reasons other than those defined above shall be recoveredas absence without leave and shall not be includedwhen computing actual days of work.
(c)	Additonal hours worked over and above the normal day shall not be taken into account in calculating days of work for the purpose of vacation except that where an employee is requiredbythe Managementto work two (2) shifts of eight (8) hours each within the twenty-four (24) hours, the two (2) shifts so worked shall be counted as two (2) days.
1(d) Where employees engaged on tasks jobs are requiredto perform two (2) tasks during their normal day, the two tasks shall for the purpose of calculating vacation period be counted only as one day of actualwork.
(e) Employees not normally requiredto work a Saturday afternoon shift shall be creditedwith this shift as a day of actualwork. If, however, work on Saturday afternoon shift is part of the regular work week or if an employee has been instructedto work on that shift, absence on that shift by the employees requiredto work shall be countedagainstvacationswith pay unlesssuch absence is due to reasonsgiven ini, ii, andiv of this clause.
13.05	Durationof Vacation
(a)	(i) Permanet employeeswho have been inthe se rvi ce of th e Co mpany fo r a co nti n uo us period of twelve monthsshall be granted a vacation pay of one andone-quarter (1 1/41 days for each twenty (20) daysof actualwork duringthe preceding calendaryear.
24
(ii)	Permanenteimployees who have been inthe service of the Company for a continuous period of ten (10) years or such employees who were on the payroll as of April 1,1972, shall be granted a vacation with pay of one and two-thirds (1 2f3Jdaysfor each twenty (20) days of actual work during the preceding calendar year.
(iii)	Permanent employees who have been in the service of the Company for a continuous period of twenty (20) years shall be granted an additional week's vacation.
(iv)	Dueallowance in(a)or(b) aboveto be made as provided previously for authorized leaves of absence because of sickness or other justified causes.
(b)	Seasonal Employees:An employee engaged in seasonalwork such as shipping and trimming at the piers and whose services with the Company terminate at the end of such season, shall be eligible for vacation with pay provided he has been in the Company's employ for the full season in which the operations are carried on and returns to the Company's service immediately on resumption of operations at the beginning of the following season. Such an employee shall be granted a vacation with pay as provided for regular employees under Paragraph(a).
(c)	The calculation of vacation due an employee will be made as soon as possible after the first of January in each year.
13.06	Time of Vacations
(a)	Vacations shall be scheduled by the Management in such a way as not to unduly impair the operation of the mine or department ■
25
(b)	The Company may discontinue mine operations for a two week period in each year which shall be observed as part of the vacation period. The time of such discontinuanceshall be determined by the Company in consultationwith the Union. As much notice as is reasonably possible shall be given.
(c)	Wherever possible, Managementwill attemptto meet the individualwishesof an employee but production needs must be the first consideration.
13.07	Vacation Pay
Vacation pay shall be calculated by taking the employee'saverage daily earnings during the current calendar year and multiplying it by the number of days vacation to which he may beentitled. B.06 Vacation Pay.
13.08	Complaints
Any employee having a complaint with regard to his vacation may have it treated as a grievance and dealt with in accordance with the procedureas laid down in the UnionContract.
13.09	Paymentin Lieuof Vacation
At the request of the employee, the Company may at its discretion, pay vacation pay in lieu of time to assure continuity of mining operations.
13.10	Terminationof Service
(a) If an employee not having been dismissed for cause leavesthe service of the Company for reasonsbeyond his control at a time when an unusedperiodofvacationwith paystandstohis credit, he shall be paid the amount due himin lieu of vacation calculated to the date of his leaving the service of the Company.
26
	(b) If an employee leaves the service of the Company of his own accord or is dismissedfor cause at a time when an unused period of vacation with pay stands to his credit, he shall be paid the amount due him in lieu of vacation calculated to the end of the previous calendar year.
13.11	Accumulation of Days of Vacation. (a)	Vacation days not taken in the year during which they become due may be accumulated and taken in a subsequent year. In no case, however, will vacation days be allowedto accumulate in excess of thirty (30) days. (b)	Vacation pay for accumulated holidays will be the summationof the annual vacation pays over the period during which the accumulationtook place. ARTICLE 14 HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
14.01	Mine employees shall receive holidays with pay in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
14.02	Employeeswill be paid for the holidays: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday,Victoria Day, Miners' Day, DominionDay, New Brunswick Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day.
14.03	An employee for whom two (2) scheduled working days of work are not available within the two (2) calendar weeks prior to a holiday mentioned above, will receive holiday pay if he works one (1) scheduled working day within the two (2) calendar weeks prior to the holiday. Otherwise, he will not be entitled to holiday pay. 27
14.04	The rate of holiday pay for datal-paid employees will be their usual datal rates and for contract workers, will be the average daily earnings of the pay week in which the holiday occurs.
14.05	Employees who work on the statutory holidays mentioned above will be paid overtime as provided in 11.04, providing they havecompliedwith the provisions of the foregoing sections.
14.06	When the Union Executive so desires, a meeting will be arranged with Company representatives to discuss the working schedule for the Christmas and New Year's weeks.
	ARTICLE 15 COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
15.01	In the event of a death in the immediate family of an employee, the Company will grant the following leave with pay:
	a) One (1) week for the employee's spouse, child. mother or father.
	(b) Three (3) consecutive days to attend the funeral of mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-inlaw, brother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister, brother, grandmother, grandfather, spouse’s brother-in-law and sister-in-law. One extra day will be granted to attend out-ofprovince funeral.
15.02	An employee acting as pallbearer will be granted one (1) day with pay.
	28
ARTICLE 16
SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
16.01	Any memberofthe Union employed inthe Coal Mining Industry as of April 1,1970 who is laid off and thrown out of employment due to lack of work, shall be eligible for severance allowance of $2,000.00 plus$50.00 for each year of continuous service inthe New Brunswick Coal Industry, upto a maximum severance of $2,500.00. All employees who are eligible for severance allowance were paid $500.00 in 1981
The balance of $2,000.00 per employee will be paid to those employees upon the employee's retirement, termination. or upon death, to the beneficiary.
ARTICLE 17
PRIVATE VEHICLES AND TRANSPORTATION
17.01	Duringthe3-11 and 11-7 shifts on dragline operations, if a breakdown of a dragline occurs requiring the call-out of a repairman or foreman, the Company shall reimburse an employee for use of his private vehicle to make such a call-out at the minimum rate of $3.00 for mileage under two miles plus thirty (30)cents per mile for each mile in excess of two miles.
17.02	Any bill submitted by an employee for reimbursement under Clause 17.01 shall be approved by his foreman prior to payment by the Company.
17.03	The Company recognizesthe right of the Union to make representation to the Company respecting transportation in the spring and fall months.
17.04	When the Company requiresa pumper to use his private vehicle to perform his job, the Company will pay a rate of $12.00 per shift to the employee.
29
	ARTICLE 18
	SUSPENSION AND DISCHARGE
18.01	Whenever an employee is suspended or discharged and believes such suspensionor discharge to have been without reasonableand just cause, he may lodge a grievance and such grievance shall be processed thereafter in accordance with the Grievance Procedure.
18.02	Where it is finally determinedthat the suspension or discharge of an employee is a violation of this Agreement by the Company, he shall be reinstated and the Company shall pay such compensation for time lost at the scale of wages for the work at which he had been employedwhen suspended or discharged.
18.03	It is understood that suspension or discharge is justifiable in the case of an employee who is a menace to the safety or the lives of himself or other employees, or who is incompetentto performthe work requiredof him, or who habituallyneglects his work. It is further understoodand agreed that there
	may be other justifiable causes for suspension or discharge.
	ARTICLE 19
	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
19.01	A grievance shall be a dispute betweenthe Company and the Union, or between the Company and any of its employees, concerningthe meaning, interpretationor alleged violationof the provisions of the presentAgreement. Every grievance shall be subject to the grievanceand arbitration proceduresset out as follows:
19.02	Any employee with a grievancemust attempt to resolve such matter with their immediate shift foreman or supervisor before a grievance is filed. 30
19.03	Should a grievance be filed relating to an alleged unjust termination or suspension, then the grievance shall be filed at Step 4 herein within five (5) working days of the occurrence of the termination or suspension. The President of the Company shall reply within five (5) working days of receipt of grievance.
19.04	All time limits set out inthis procedure and in Article 20 -Arbitration, are mandatory.
STEP1
The grieving employee or employees shall submit the matter, in writing, to his immediate foreman within five (5) working days of its occurrence. One mine committeeman may participate in the discussion if the grievor so desires. The foreman shall give his reply in writing to the grievor within two (2) working days. A copy of the grievance and reply shall be mailed to the mine committee chairman.
STEP 2
Failing a satisfactory reply from the foreman, the grievor and his committeeman, if any, shall submit the grievance to the department head within two
(2)	working days, along with a copy of the foreman's response. The department head shall reply to the grievance in writing within two (2) working days of its submission to him.
STEP 3
If there is a failure on agreement then, within three
(3)	working days of failure of agreement, the Union President or his appointee will submit the case in writing to the President of the Company and to the Board Member of District 26, U.M.W.A. The President of the Company shall render his decision in writing within five (5) days of its submission to him.
31
STEP 4	If the decision of the President is not acceptedand settlement is not reached, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration; a written notice to refer the matter to arbitrationmust be given by one party or the other within two (2) weeks after the expiration of the previous period. If such notice i s not given within the two weeks, then the grievance is deemed settledand shall not be further processed by arbitrationor otherwise.
	ARTICLE 20 ARBITRATION
20.01	If no agreement has been reached after the Grievance Proceduresetforth inthe presentAgree-ment has been followed, one or the other of the parties shall have the right to requirethe appointment of an Umpire to settle such matter of dispute.
20.02	All time limits contained in this Article are mandatory.
20.03	In all cases in which an Umpire shall be required as a result of the presentAgreement, the Unionand the Company shall consult and appoint jointly in writing an Umpire within ten (10) days of the date of the reception of the notice of arbitration.
20.04	Should the Union and the Company fail to agree to the appointmentof an Umpire,the Minister of Labour of the Provinceof New Brunswick shall choose the Umpire upon application of either party.
20.05	After the Umpire has been chosen by the foregoing procedure, he shall meet, hear evidence from both sides, and upon completion of the hearing, shall render a decision within fifteen (15) days which shall be final and bindingon the partiesto this Agreement. 32
20.06	Each party shall be entitled to be representedby Counsel or otherwise,to present evidence, to cross-examine the witnesses of the other party, to presentarguments orally and/or in writing. When a written argument is submitted, each party may answer once to the argument of the other party. When an argument in writing or a brief is submitted to the Umpire by one or the other of the parties, a copy of such argument or brief shall at the same time be sent to the other party.
20.07	Each of the parties hereto agree to pay equal shares for the Umpire.
20.08	in no case shall the Umpire be authorizedto alter, modify or amend any part of the present agreement.
	ARTICLE21 MINE COMMITTEE
21.01 21.02	For purposes of this Agreement, there shall be a mine committee consisting of not more than six (6) members selected by the Union. The duties of the mine committee shall be confined to the adjusting of disputes betweenthe Company and its employees arising out of this Agreement.
21.03	The mine committee in the discharge of its duties shall, under no circumstances, go around the mines for any cause whatever unless called upon to do so either by the General Manager or his representativeor by an employee who may have a grievancewhich he has been unable to settle with his foreman.
21.04	It is mandatory for the mine committee,when requested by the General Manager or his representativeor by the employee affected, to go 33
at once to the place or placeswhere a grievance is alleged to exist so that a thorough investigation can be made and an adjustment of any grievance affected if possible.
21.05	Any committee or committeeman who shall attempt to execute any local rule or procedure in conflict with any provisionof this Agreement, or with any provision made in pursuance hereof, shall be deposed forthwith as a committee or committeeman.
21.06	Membersof the mine committee shall not leave their places of duty during working hours except by permissionof the General Manager or his representativeor in cases involving a stoppage of work. Such membersof the committee may act in accordance with Section21.03 and21.04 after notifying the foreman or supervisor.
21.07	The Unionwill notify the Company in writing, the names and addresses of all officers and members of all committees and any changes in the same.
ARTICLE 22	,
CONTINUATIONOFWORK
22.01	If any employee refuses to continue at work because of a grievancewhich has not been adjusted, and such action shall seem likely to impede the operation of the Company, the mine committee, when called upon by the General Manager, shall furnish an employee to take such vacant place in order that the mine may continue at work. It shall be the duty of any member or members of the Union, when called upon by the General Manager and the mine committee, and if competent to do the work required, immediately to
34
	take the place or places assigned to him or them in pursuance of such a call. ARTICLE 23 CONTINUATION OF OPERATIONS
23.01	It is distinctly understood and agreed that in cases of all disputes and grievances of every nature arising under the Agreement, the employee shall continue to work pending a settlement. ARTICLE 24 MAINTENANCE MEN DURING SUSPENSION OF MINING
24.01	In case of either local or general suspension of dragline operations, either at the expiration of this Agreement or otherwise, the pumpmen and such other maintenance men necessary to protect mining operations, shall not suspend work except at the option of the Company. They shall fully protect all the Company property under their care and operate fans and pumps.
24.02	It is understood and agreed that the Company will not ask maintenance men to strip or truck any coal produced by non-union labour for sale in the market during a suspension of mining.
24.03	Should the interest of the pumpmen and such other maintenance men necessary to protect the mining operations bedirectly involved in any issue at the expiration of the Agreement, and any pumpmen and such other maintenance men necessary to protect the mine, cease work, the United Mine Workers of America shall provide competent men 35
25.01
25.02
26.01
27.01
to performthe emergencywork above recitedat the scale price in effect at the time of suspension, subject to subsequent settlement
ARTICLE 25
INDEFINITESHUTDOWN
It is agreed, when any section of the mining operations is shut down for an indefiniteperiod, that the opportunity for a division of the work available will be given to each and every man thrown out of employment provided, however, that operating conditions and efficiency of operations make such divisionsof work practical.
It is understood that the question of the division of work during an indefinite shutdown may be taken up by the Company and the Union in an effort to reach an understanding of the methods to be put in effect.
ARTICLE 26
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This agreement isa two (2) year agreementfrom November20,1994 to November 19,1996. Wages ONLY will be negotiable in the second year.
ARTICLE27
AMENDMENT
Either party desiring any change in this Agreement shall give the other party not less than sixty (60) days notice in writing prior to the expirationdate thereof that a change is desired. Otherwise, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for another year.
36
2,„2 #
changes is not reachedprior to the end of the Agreement year, the existing Agreement shall continue in effect until a decision is reachedwith respect to the proposed changes or the Agreement is terminated.
ARTICLE28
TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT
28.01	This Agreement may be terminated by either party on November20.1994 on not less than sixty (60) days written notice and after a meetingof the signatory parties at which it is specifically decided that the Agreement shall be terminated.
ARTICLE29
OBLIGATION
29.01	Thefulfillmentof thisAgreement is guaranteed by the InternationalUnion, by the officers and membersof the United Mine Workers of America,
District No. 26, and byN.B. Coal Limited;and these parties recognize that it is their duty to see that this Agreement is carried out in the spirit as well as in the letter in which it is written.
ARTICLE30
SAFETY, HEALTH AND ACCIDENT PREVENTION
30.01	The Company and Union recognize the benefits to be derivedfrom a safe and healthy place of employment and also, the responsibilityplaced solely on the Company bythe MiningAct, the Occupational Health and Safety Commission and other applicable legislation. It is agreedthat the Company and employees, Union Executiveand officers, and all levels of supervision will co-operate fully to promote
37
	safe work practices. health conditions and enforcement of safety rules and procedures.
30.02	(a) The Joint Healthand Safety Committee com-posedof a minimum of four (4) Company representativesand a minimum of four (4) employees selected by the Union, will hold a meeting once a month.
	(b) This committee will meet for such purposes as set out by the regulationsof the Occupational Healthand Safety Commission.
30.03	(c)	This committee complementsthe Company's Accident Prevention Programwhich is conducted for all employees and the committee will, in no way, replace or detract from the carrying out of that program. (d)	Both partieswill study any recommendations submitted by the committee as directed by the regulationsof the Occupational Health and Safety Commission. In order to maintaina safe working environment, each employee is required to undergo a complete medical examinationby a medical practitionerof his choise at least once a year or at the discretionof the Company.
30.04	The Monthly Safety Inspectionshall continue during the life of this agreement.
30.05	(a) Safety and Clothing Allowance .
	Duringthe life of this Agreement, a safety and clothing allowanceof $250.00 per year shall he paid to each employee as follows: $125.00 last week in November $125.00 first week in December.
	38
(b)	The said allowance shall be applied by each employee towards the purchase of one (1) pair of safety footwear and one (1) pair of safely coveralls.
(c)	Each employee, not later than thirty (30) days from the receipt of the allowance, shall report for work, and every day therefrom duringthe term of this Agreement, wearing such safety-wear as described in (a) hereto.
(d)	The Company shall provide gloves during the term of this Agreement to those employees who are assigned to the picking belt, so called, which is locatedat the Company's wash plant.
(e)	Effective November 1990 the clothing allowance will increase from $250.00 to $275.00
ARTICLE 31 CALLOUT
31.01	Employees called back to work following completion of their regular shift on Monday through Friday (inclusive) or called out at any time on Saturday, Sunday or a statutory holiday, will be paid for hours worked at the applicableovertime rate as provided insvction 11.04 plusreasonabletravelingtime but never less than four (4) hours at time and one-half.
31.02	Any employee called out two (2) hours prior to the commencement of their regular shift does not constitute a call out.
39
ARTICLE 32
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
32.01	EveryemployeecoveredbythisAgreementwill be classified in accordance with a job title and a wage classification within that job title as set forth in Appendix "A".
32.02	Existing classificationsshall notbeeliminatedor changed nor shall any new classifications be createdwithout prior notification to the Union.
32.03	Objectionsbythe Union shall be discussedwithin thirty (30) days of notificationwith Company officials and an effort will be made to resolve differences
The Company may establish an interim rate for any new classification which (i.e. the rate) shall be sub ject to agreementwith the Union.
32.04	If the Union and the Company cannot agree on the wage rate for a new classification, then the matter may be referredby the Union to arbitrationfor resolution.
ARTICLE 33 BANKINGOVERTIME
33.01	Bankingof Overtime
An employee may elect not to receive pay for overtime worked and have such overtime hours credited, at premium rates, to a bankfor latertime off (e.g. employee works8 hoursattime and one-half -credit in bank istwelve (12) hours- time off entitlement is twelve (12) hours.
33.02	Total eligible time off hours in the bank shall not exceed twenty-four (24) hours. The maximum allowable hoursto be bankedinone(l) contractyear is forty (40) hours.
33.03	The employee and the supervisor must agree when time off is to be taken.
40
33.04	To enable the supervisor to make a reasonable decision on a bank time off request,the employee must give twenty-four (24) hours notice. The supervisor may waive the notice requirement in exceptional circumstances.
33.05	Withdrawalfromthe bankwill not take precedence over other employees scheduledvacation.
33.06	Unused credits at year end will be canceled by payment.
33.07	The option to bank overtime hours shall not extend to shift workers except where the supervisor determines that time off can be granted without calling in a replacement at overtime rates.
ARTICLE34
SEASONAL OPERATIONS (8 MONTH PERYEAR OPERATION)
34.01 This article pertainsto an 8-month seasonal operation and to those personswho were permanently employed with NB Coal Limited on or before November20,1994 only.
(a)	Supplementary Health, Dental, Life Insurance and Accidental Death& Dismembermentcover-age will continue during suspensionof operations.
(b)	Life insurance- Life Insurancecoveragewill be based on an employees base weekly salary x 52 weeks.
(c)	Company Pension Plan contributions for a full 12 month period will be paid by the Company and the employee over the working period.
(d)	Vaction pay will be paid out weekly.
41
(e)	Employees will be granted(3) floating days in each of the two contractyears, commencing November20,1994.
(f)	S.U.B. (Supplementary UnemploymentBenefit): AS.U.B. of $60 per week will be paidtoeach employeewho is in receipt of Unemployment Insurancebenefitsduringthe Suspensionof Operations, as per the S.U.B. plan registered with the Canada Employment and Immigration Commission.
42
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed as of the 28th day of October, 1994.
N.B. COAL LIMITED
President & Gesnwnael Manager
Chief Negotiator
Peter Dufoui\ Production Coordinator Negotiator
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA DISTRICT NO 26
BY
Alvin ScriAner Board Member, District 26 Negotiator
Sric Barnett
Vice-President, Local 7409 Negotiator
President, Local 7409 Negotiator
43
APPENDIXA
LIST OF JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES DRAGLINE OPERATIONS
OCCUPATION
Labourer Carman
Pumper/Watchman
Drill Helperl Drill HelperII
Automotive Serviceman Plant Oiler Coal Inspector Scaleman
Storekeeper!	13.13
Storekeeper II	13.57
Storekeeperlll	14.15
Watchman (Main Shop)	13.14
Welder I	13 21
Welder II	13.49
Welder III	13.78
Welder IV	14.47
Welder (Automatic)	14.26
Welder (Field Welding)	14.34
Welder (Journeyman)	15.98
Explosive Mixer Operator	13.50
Survey Chainman	13.50
Survey Instrumentman	13.52
Truck Driver	13.24
Service Truck Driver	13.24
EFFECTIVE RATES Nov. 20,1994	Nov. 20,1995
(to be negotiated)
12.81
12.86
13.49
12.98
14.04
13.04
13.13
13.13
13.13
45
EFFECTIVE RATES
OCCUPATION	Nov. 20,1994 Nov. 20,1995
(to be negotiated)
Float Truck Driver	13.27
Fuel Truck Driver	13.28
Fireman	13.44
Fireman(Journeyman)	14.03
Lubeman
Start	14.04
6 Months Experience	14.52
12 Months Experience	14.62
2 Years Experience	15.11
Lineman(Electrician)	13.45
Electrician	14.52
Electrician (Journeyman)	15.98
DraglineOiler I	14,15
DraglineOiler II	14.48
Dragline Operator I	16.48
Dragline Operator II	17.05
Dragline Repairman I	15.32
Dragline Repairman II	16.19
Diesel Mechanic I	13.45
Diesel Mechanic II	13.95
Diesel Mechanic III	14.35
Diesel Mechanic IV	14.52
Diesel Mechanic (Journeyman) 15.98
46
EFFECTIVE RATES
OCCUPATION Nov.20,1994 Nov. 20,1995
(to be negotiated)
Combination Repairman I	13.45
Combination Repairmanll	14.03
Combination Repairmanlll	14.63
Combination RepairmanlV	15.26
Combination RepairmanV	16.19
Pump Repair Mechanic Start Apprenticeship	13.21
One Year Experience	13.45
Two Years Experience	13.95
Three Years Experience	14.35
FourYears Experience	14.52
Five Years Experience (N.B. CoalJourneyman)	15.98
Auto Mechanic I
Start Apprenticeship	13.24
Auto Mechanic II
CompleteYear I	13.55
Auto Mechanic III
CompleteYear II	13.83
Auto Mechanic IV
Complete Year III	14.13
Auto Mechanic (Journeyman) 15.17
M5 Drill Operator	15.35
Drill Operator Exploration	13.73
DrillOperator Mobile	14.32
Shovel Operator	13.73
LoaderOperator	14.32
Plant Operator	13.78
Tractor Operator	14.47
ExcavatorOperator	14.47
47
EFFECTIVE RATES
OCCUPATION	Nov. 20,1994 Nov. 20,1995
(to be negotiated)
Carpenter	13.78
Carpenter (Journeyman)	15.13
Journeyman Powderman	14.87
Machinist(Helper)	13.82
Machinist (Journeyman)	15.98
Survey Technician I	13.23
Survey Technician 11	13.52
Survey Technicianlll	13.83
Survey Technician IV	14.13
Survey Technician (Journeyman) 15.95
48
COMBINATION REPAIRMAN
The following is the payscale that will apply to the classification of Combination Repairman.
(a) Top rate, Combination Repairman V	-employeewill have ajourney-man'sticket in one of the following trades: heavy duty diesel mechanic, heavy duty industrial mechanic,journey-man welder, or journeyman machinist.
(b)	Combination -employee will havecompletedhisthirdyear Repairman IV apprenticeshipprogramor have five (5)
years experience in one of the trades.
(c)	Combination -employee will have completed his second Repairman III year apprenticeshipprogramor have four
(4) years experience in one of the trades.
(d)	Combination -employeewill have completed hisfirst year Repairman II apprenticeshipprogramor have three (3)
(e) Combination • Repairman I	years experience in one of the trades. ■ no experience necessary but the employee be willing to enroll in an apprenticeship program in one of the trades that would qualify him for journeyman and top rate of Combination Repairman.
	49
LETTER OF INTENT
RESUBCONTRACTINGAND CONTRACTING
Following meeting of January 4 and 5, 1984, the U.M.W.A., Local7409 andN.B. Coal Ltd. agree to the following:
CONTRACTINGOUT
The Union recognizes the right of the Employer to contract out work as indicated below:
The Employer shall give the Union notice in writing prior to contracting out the work
The Employer will not contract work out that results directly in the lay-off of men. The Employer guarantees that no men will be laid-off as a result of contracting out.
Repair and maintenance work customarily performed by classified employees at the Mine or Central Shop shall not be contracted out except where:
(a)	work being performedby a manufactureror supplier under warranty.
(b)	where the Employer does not have available equipmentor employees (including laid-off employeesatthe Mine or Central Shop)with the necessaryskillsavailableto perform the work at the Mine or Central Shop.
(c)	in emergency situations, the Company will advise the local Union President or his representativeby phone and explain the necessityof contracting out.
This letter of intent will form part of the Collective Agreement and expire November19,1994.
50
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: MINE COMMUNICATION COMMITTEES (LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE)
The parties recognize that, for their joint benefit, the prosperity and efficiency of the coal industry are dependent upon their ability to work co-operatively.
In order to further implement this expression of purpose, within sixty (60) days, a Mine Communication Committee shall be established at the mine. The Union representation on the Committee shall be the Local President, the Mine Committee Chairman, and the Safety Committee Chairman, and one (1) rank and file member. The Union members shall be certified to the Mine Management and a corresponding number of Employer members shall be certified to the Union. The Employer and Union members of the Committee shall meet at mutually agreeable times, but no less than once each month. The function of the Committee shall be to identify and discuss any problems or potential problems which, if unresolved, could interrupt the steady and regular operation of the mine.
The representative of Management or the Local Union President may from time-to-time suggest to the Employer areas of special concern consistent with the purposes of the Committee and the provisions of this Agreement. The functioning of this Committee shall not affect the existing rights of either party under any other provision of this Agreement.
51
LETTER OF INTENT
KE: ISSUANCE OF GREASE SUITS, RUBBERBOOTS, RAINSUITS AND GLOVES
This Is to confirm that the Company intends to continue its present practice Inthe issuanceof grease suits, rubber boots, ralnsults and gloves.
Grease suits and rubber boots will be issued on an as-needed basisto employees who are requiredto work in grease and must be returned to the Company upon completion of such work.
Ralnsults and gloves may be purchased from the Company at 75% of the Company's cost for these items. Shouldtnese Items be destroyed In the execution of work other than the employee's normaljob, and if the execution of such work is requested by the employee's Supervisor, and if the wearing of these Itemsto execute such work is authorized by the Supervisor, these items will be replaced, at the Supervisor's determination, on a return basis.
It was agreed during negotiations that the present Weekly Pay System will not bechangedduringthe term of this Collective Agreement.
This letter is to confirm that the present transportation arrangements will be maintained during the life of the Collec-tiveAgreement.
LETTER OF INTENT R E WEEKLY PAY SYSTEM
LETTER OF INTENT RE: 
52