SOURCE	/ /	'7> lL	
tii-T.		C:' /	
TliRV..	9y	/:!	-J /
: K i. <.•;•
' imp1.1;vjii . /iir-r-i:o,v. ;Rt I
II” MI'i-OiESJ V// //
COLLECTIVE AG^RENT BETWEEN
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA, DISTRICT NO. 26 JANUARY 1, 1995 TO DECEMBER 31, 1998
00182 (05)
.RTICLE 1
RECOGNITION
1.1	It is agreed that this contract is for the exclusive joint use and benefit of the contracting parties as defined and set forth in this Agreement. It is agreed that for all operations covered by this Agreement, the United Mine Workers of America, District No. 26 is recognized herein as the exclusive bargaining agent representing the employees of the employer. It is further agreed that as a condition of employment all employees at operations covered by this Agreement shall be, or become, members of the United Mine’ Workers of America.
It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that the Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economic relationships in the coal industry and to set forth herein the basic agreements covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment to be observed between the parties, and shall cover employment of persons employed in the operations covered by this Agreement. Management will not abridge the rights of the employees as set forth in this Agreement.
1.2	This Agreement shall come under the scope of the Certification Notice issued September 30, 1987, by the Canada Labour Relations Board, and which is deemed to be now covered by the Canada Labour Code, Part 1, in accordance with the Act to establish the Cape Breton Development Corporation assented to on July 7, 1967.
1.3	The fulfillment of this Agreement and that of any subsequent joint agreements entered into is guaranteed by the International Union, the Officers of District No. 26, United Mine Workers of America and the Operators; and it is their duty to see that all such agreements are carried out both in the letter and in the spirit.
ARTICLE 2	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
MANAGEMENT:	The management of the mine and the direction
of the working force is vested exclusively in the operator and the United Mine Workers of America shall not abridge this right in accordance with the terms of this Agreement .
the
1
.RTICLE 3	UNION SECURITY
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.6
Every employee covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of continuing employment and to maintain his status as a member in good standing, pay to the United Mine Workers of America an amount equal to the Union’s constitutional monthly dues.
The Corporation agrees to check off from the wages of employees covered by this Agreement all dues, levies, fines, assessments, and initiation fees authorized by the United Mine Workers of America District No. 26 President, and Secretary-Treasurer.
The parties agree that there shall be a compulsory checkoff an amount equivalent to union dues from the wages of all employees who are not members of the Union and who come within the bargaining unit to which this Agreement applies. Such check-off shall continue during the period the provisions of this Agreement are binding on the parties. -
All new employees shall become members of the Union within thirty (30) days of employment and remain in good standing as a condition of employment.
Deduction of monthly union dues shall be made from the employees on a weekly basis. At the end of each week, the Corporation shall remit such dues by cheque to the Union along with a statement listing employees by name and other relevant criteria. In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment that an employee already had made to the Union, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the provisions of the Union Constitution and bylaws, refunds to the employee will be made by the Union.
The Union shall indemnify the Corporation against any liability that the Corporation may incur under this Article. The liability of the Union shall be limited to the amount or amounts of money so deducted from employees wages in accordance with this Agreement .
ARTICLE 4	NO DISCRIMINATION
No member of the United Mine Workers of America shall be denied employment except for just cause.
2
Neither the Employer nor the Union shall discriminate against an employee on the basis of race, national or ethnic origin, color, religion, age, sex, marital status, family status, disability, or conviction for which a pardon has been granted subject to the exceptions provided under the ’Canadian Human Rights Act'.
ARTICLE 5	UNION REPRESENTATION
5.1	The Corporation will recognize the Official Union Officers and Committee Members in the discharge of their duties as provided for in this agreement.
5.2	The Union will provide the Corporation with a list of the Union personnel which comprises the Executive and the Officers and Committees of the various locals. The Union will advise of any changes as and when they occur.
5.3	The Corporation recognizes that from time to time it will
be necessary for employees serving as Union Officers or Committee members to leave their place of work in order to carry out Union responsibilities provided for under this agreement on behalf of the Union. Such employees will not leave his/her work place without first obtaining permission of his/her supervisor. The Mine Committee in the discharge of	its	duties shall, under	no
circumstances, go around the mine for any cause whatever unless called upon to do so either by the Mine Manager or his representative or	by	a miner	or datal man who	may
have a grievance which	he	has been	unable to settle	with
the Manager or his representative. It shall be mandatory, however,	for	the Mine Manager or	his
representative and for the miner or datal man affected to request the Mine Committee to come to the place or places where the grievance is, at once, so that a thorough investigation can be made and an adjustment of the grievance effected if possible.
5.4	Any Union Officer or Committee Member who shall attempt to execute any local rule or procedure conflicting with any provision of this Agreement or with any provisions made in pursuance thereof shall be forthwith deposed as Union Officer or Committee Member.
5.5	Nothing in this Article shall be construed to prohibit the Union Officers or Committee Members from looking after the matter of membership, dues, and initiation in any proper manner.
- 3 -
j.6	Local Union Officers will be permitted to be absent from
a regular rostered shift(s), or part thereof, to attend to official Union business. Such employee(s) will not be termed an absentee for the purposes of calculating regular attendance at work or for the purpose of Personal Incentive Days for which the employee otherwise qualifies. An employee who.must be absent for an entire shift(s) must arrange such absence in accordance with Article 13.2, 13.3, and must furnish management with an authorized slip from the Union verifying the absence is for official union business.
5.7
(/ .! .
Union Officers/Committee Members or other bargaining unit members who are requested to attend meetings or investigations at the request of Management will be compensated at their normal hourly rate for rostered work hours missed as a result of such attendance.
ARTICLE 6	RE-EMPLOYMENT OF OFFICERS
6.1
6.2
i/'

B.
c.
j D
l J ^
\\
The Corporation agrees that all employees leaving their employment to accept elected or appointed positions with the United Mine Workers of America shall at the expiration of their official duties be reinstated to their original classification at their original site, or in the case the job has become redundant exercise his/her rights under Article 25.
LFAVF OF ABSENCE FOR FULL-TIME UNION OR PUBLIC DUTIES:
The employer recognizes the right of an employee to participate in public affairs. Therefore, upon written request, the employer shall allow leave of absence without pay or benefits so the employee may be a candidate in federal, provincial, or municipal elections.
An employee who is elected to public office, within the context of (A) of this article, shall be allowed leave of absence without loss of seniority during his/her term of office .
An employee who is elected or selected for a full time position with the Union shall be granted leave of absence without loss of seniority and will be shown on the seniority listing.
Employees granted leave of absence under this Article must return to work within two (2) months after the expiration of such elected position or appointment .
4
The Corporation will recognize for pension purposes under its non-contributory pension plan and its compassionate disability pension plan, any full time service in elected or appointed Union positions. It is further understood all other eligibility requirements under such plans are complied with by the employees.
ARTICLE 7	SAFETY AND HEALTH
7.1
7.2
7.3
7.4	(•;’
f
Every employee covered by this Agreement is entitled to a safe and healthy place to work, and the parties jointly pledge their individual and joint_efforts to attain and maintain this objective. Recognizing that the health and safety of the employees covered by this Agreement are the highest priorities of the parties, the parties mutually agree to fully comply with all lawful notices and orders issued pursuant to Part II of the Canada Labour Code and any other applicable legislation .
In the context of the foregoing, the Corporation and the Union agree that in order to achieve high safety standards, proper attitudes must be developed by all concerned due to the primary role of the human element in any sound accident prevention program.
In order to further safety and establish desirable communication to this effect a Union Advisory Safety Committee shall be set up at each mine and Auxiliary Department composed of three (3) employees having at least twelve (12) months service with the Corporation and knowledge of the conditions and practices at the respective locations. (At least one member of the Union Advisory Safety Committee must hold a valid certificate as a Mine Examiner) . The Union Advisory Safety Committee will represent the Union on the site Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
Investigation travels on behalf of the site Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall take place monthly within the week prior to the regular monthly meeting of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Commi ttee at the site. Reports on these monthly investigations will be made to the Chairman at the regularly scheduled monthly meeting. The remuneration of employees for time spent carrying out the functions of a member of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee will be in accordance with the terms of Part II of the Canada Labour Code.
- s -
.5	Apart from the regular monthly investigations on behalf
of the site Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee, interim investigations by the Union Advisory Safety Committee on behalf of the workmen can be made as necessary. The Union will bear the expense of such interim investigations. Investigation reports will be made on the forms supplied by the site Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee and will be presented to the Chairman of the site Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee for immediate attention . Copies of any interim reports will also be presented along with the monthly investigation reports at the monthly meeting of the Joint, Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
7.6	Where investigations at the sites are required on an urgent basis as a result of an emergency or other special circumstances concerning the bargaining unit, one member of the Union Advisory Safety Committee will be promptly notified and may investigate and make a report on this investigation to the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee. The union Safety Coordinator will also be notified and will be permitted to make an investigation travel. The Union will bear the expense of any investigation by the Union Safety Coordinator.
7.7	Monthly accident statistics will be issued by the safety Department at each site in time for discussion at the monthly meeting of the site Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee .
7.8	An employee may refuse a work assignment that he/she
.	)	considers dangerous provided such refusal meets the terms
lp'.' -	and conditions for such refusal as outlined in the Canada
Labour Code, Part II, Section 128.
ARTICLE 8	SAFETY APPAREL
8.1	As an added safety feature in the collieries and related
departments, employees will be issued with coveralls free of charge - three pairs a year to underground employees and two pairs a year to surface employees. Of the three pairs issued to underground employees; the employee will have the option of receiving two unlined pairs and one lined pair. Of the two pairs of coveralls issued to surface employees, the employee shall have the option of receiving two unlined pairs or one lined and one unlined pair .
6
2	The Corporation agrees to provide yearly to each
employee:
(1)	two pairs of low-cut leather boots, or
(2)	two pairs of rubber boots, or
(3)	one pair of each, at the option of the employee.
Employees will have the option to exchange footwear normally provided by the Corporation for footwear of higher value provided there is no additional cost to the Corporation.
Boots which are determined to be defective by the manufacturer will be replaced at no cost to the employee.
8.3	The Corporation will also, during this same period, issue, free of charge, to each employee two (2) pairs of leather work gloves of the kind normally stocked in its warehouse .
8.4	The Corporation will post notices for employees to pick up their safety apparel. In the event an employee is off work because of sickness/injury, the employee will be required to pick up his/her safety apparel in the calendar year issued or forfeit such issue .
8.5	Employees leaving the Corporation throughout the year shall have their safety clothing credit calculated as follows:
Safety Clothing Credit = mths employed x annual safety
12	clothing credit
8.6	Employees (active) who are pensioned throughout the year shall be entitled to the full annual safety clothing credit less the total value of safety coveralls, boots and gloves issued to them in that year.
ARTICLE 9	WAGES AND HOURS (SOURS OF WORK)
9.1	HOURS OF WORK
A.	Every employee conditioned to this agreement shall comply with the provisions of the Canada Labour Code.
B.	The standard hours of work of each employee shall not exceed eight hours a day for five days a week and
.	Management will provide a roster of shifts to be worked.
\	A roster board will be posted at each operational unit
which will specify the five normal shifts that each )	employee will work along with his two scheduled days off
in a particular week. The employees five shifts may be
7
any five in a week of seven days. This roster board will be so updated as to normally give each employee a weeks notice of his specific shift roster for the following weeks.
c.	The maximum hours of work of each employee shall not
exceed forty-eight (48) in a week. Payment for hours worked in excess of the standard hours of forty (40) shall be at the rate . of one and one-half times the employees regular rate. Any time worked in excess of eight hours shall be paid for at the rate of time and one half of the employee's datal rate on the basis of the nearest one-quarter of an hour.
D.	The maximum hours of work of each employee in a week as prescribed in Paragraph 9a.3 may be exceeded in the cases of:
(1)	accident to machinery, equipment, plant or persons
(2)	urgent and essential work to be done to machinery, equipment, or plant, or
(3)	other unforeseen or unpreventable circumstances
E.	The length of a shift other than an underground shift shall be eight hours and management will clearly post shift starting and finishing times and provide, operate and maintain a system of timekeeping. It will be the responsibility of each employee to comply with the timekeeping system requirements and be at his place of work by the established shift starting time and not leave his place of work until the end of the shift.
The length of an underground shift will be eight hours from portal to portal. Management will clearly post shift starting and finishing times. The last conveyance will leave the surface at the shift starting time and it will be the responsibility of the employee to be enroute to his work place below the portal at this time. Management will provide facilities for employees to normally return to the portal at the end of the eight-hour shift. There will be no travelling facilities provided within the specific eight-hour shift other than those provided under this Article except for authorized personnel or in the case of an emergency.
G.	Every employee who agrees to a request by Management to
work a shift outside his published roster and then subsequently fails to report for the shift shall be subject to the penalties as set forth in Article 13 of the Collective Agreement.
F.
8 -
.1.	Every employee shall perform any class of work in or around the operations that the Corporation may require of them, provided they are paid the rate for such work.
9.2	Shift Premiums
A. i i	Employees will be paid 0.175 cents for rostered hours worked between 1500 hours and 2300 hours, and 0.3500 cents for rostered hours worked between 2300 hours and 0700 hours .
/(; B.	Shift differentials shall not apply to -
, ,1	1.	Overtime of less than four (4) hours 2.	The calculation of holiday and vacation pay
.J'i i	3.	Regular rostered day shift hours 4.	Overtime shall not be calculated on shift differentials
9.3	Underground Premium
• '/	A premium of $3.00 per eight (8) hours shift shall be paid to employees underground in the Corporation Collieries . This underground premium shall not form part of any classification rate.
9.4	weekend Premium
■ V	Article 9.1 (B) provides for the setting up of a roster for each employee to be allocated five shifts within the seven days. For each of those shifts between 7 a.m. on Saturday to 7 a.m. on Monday for which an employee is rostered and which he worked for the full eight hours, he will receive a premium of $10.00 over and above his normal datal rate. This premium will not be taken into account in computing his overtime payment if he works more than eight hours in the weekend shift and it will not apply if the weekend shift is a shift in excess of his five normal shifts for that week.
9
,.5 Call Back Pay
A.	Employees called back to work on irregular hours other
A/( J	than immediately following or immediately prior to their regularly rostered shift shall receive a minimum of four ( 4 ) hours pay at the straight time rate or applicable overtime rate for the time worked, whichever is the greater.
B.	Employees who are called back to work within the meaning of Clause 9.5 (A) of this Article and who subsequently work more than four (4) hours and not more than eight (8) hours will be credited with (8) hours actually worked at the premium time thereon calculated accordingly. Any time worked in excess of eight (8) hours will be paid for in accordance with the relevant terms of this Agreement.
9.6 Shift Cancellation
	An employee who, while at home, is requested by management and agrees to work a non-rostered shift and is then cancelled before the commencement time of the non-rostered shift shall be paid the sum of $15.0 for such cancellation.
ARTICLE	10 ALLOWANCES
10.1	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
„,W A-	The employer may at its discretion grant leave of absence from the Corporation without pay for legitimate personal reasons, such requests shall not be unreasonably denied.
B.	An employee may be allowed up to ninety (90) calendar days leave of absence without pay in any one calendar year for personal reasons if a request is made to the Corporation in writing and the reason given is satisfactory to the Corporation .
c.	The Corporation will decide whether to fill the said position, and if they so decide, will have the right to assign someone without job posting for the duration of the leave.
D.	An employee granted leave without pay will not forfeit site seniority or bargaining unit seniority. Upon return to his/her original site, following the leave of absence, he/she will be placed in his/her original position at that site .
- 10 -
Employees who are granted a leave of absence under this Article will be eligible to obtain benefit coverage under the Group Insurance Plan for a period of ninety (90) days under the following conditions:
(1)	Appl ication for coverage is made in writing.
(2)	The employee will pay 100% of premium in advance.
(3)	Coverage does not include weekly indemnity.
(4)	The employee will also be eligible for.coal at employee's rate during such leave.
10.2
, ' ,/^A.
\
B.
BEREAVEMENT
Any employee who has completed three (3) consecutive months of continuous employment shall be entitled to his/her bereavement leave with pay at his/her regular rate of wages for this regular work.
In the event of the death of his/her spouse or a child, an employee shall be entitled to five (5) rostered days bereavement leave on any of his/her regular rostered shifts, exclusive of overtime, immediately following the death.
C.	In the event of the death of a parent, step-parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brothersister, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-inlaw, grandparent, or any relative with whom he/she permanently resides, an employee shall be entitled to three (3) rostered days bereavement leave on any of his/her regular rostered shifts immediately following the death .
D.	In the event an employee is required to cease work during one of his/her rostered shifts due to bereavement in the family, he/she will be paid for the unworked portion of that shift and that day will not be counted as a paid bereavement day.
E.	Any day of bereavement leave taken by an employee entitled to it will be credited as a day worked for the purpose of computing any personal incentive days provided under Article 14 for which the employee otherwise qualifies.
F.	In the event of the death of his/her spouse or child during the employee's vacation period, the employee will be granted bereavement leave in accordance with this Article and will be permitted to take his/her remaining vacation at a mutually agreeable time .
- 11
.0.3
i
■ \	/
i
\J
1
2 3
10.4
10.5
A.
JURY DUTY/WITNESS DUTY
An employee summoned for jury duty or subpoenaed by the crown as a witness in a court of law, and who is required to lose time from his regular rostered shift (s) as a result thereof shall be paid for actual time lost with a maximum of one basic day's (8 hours) pay at the straight time rate applicable to the classification last performed for each day lost, less the amount allowed him for the duty for each such day, excluding allowances paid by the court for meals, lodging, or transportation subject to the following requirements or limitations:-
The Corporation shall be liable for payment only in those cases where the Court recognizes attendance and compensates the employee for same. In all such cases, the Corporation's financial liability shall be governed by the limitations contained in paragraph one (l) above.
An employee must furnish the Corporation with a statement from the Court of the allowances paid and the days on which jury/witness duty was performed.
No pay will be allowed for any day for which the employee is entitled to annual vacation or general holiday pay .
PAYMENT FOR TAKING ANINJURED PERSON OUT OF THE MINK
Any employee requested to assist in taking an injured person out of the mine will be paid his/her datal rate.
If, at the Collieries operated by the Corporation at the time of this Agreement, he/she arrives on the surface before the mid-point of his/her shift, he/she will return to his/her duties in the mine.
If he/she arrives on the surface after the mid-point of the shift, he/she will be paid the full shift and permitted to go home.
PAYMENT FOR STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Employees will be holidays:
New Year's Day-
Good Friday’ Victoria Day.
Davis Day'
Dominion Day.
paid for the following statutory
Labour DayThanksgiving Day■
Remembrance Day •
Christmas Day.
Boxing Day .
- 12 -
.J.	Effective January 1, 1982, the Corporation shall pay one
shift (8 hours pay) to each eligible employee in lieu of an additional holiday. If the Government of Canada designates Heritage Day or such other day as a General Holiday, the day so designated by the Government shall be substituted for the Floating Holiday. The Floating Holiday will be celebrated under the following conditions:
(1)	Employees can substitute the "additional Holiday” with a "floating holiday" which may be taken at any time convenient to both employee and management with two weeks advance written request. Management reserves the right to limit the number granted a holiday on any given day to the number not required in the operation on that day. The eligibility requirement for the @’floating holiday" shall be determined in the same manner as at present for statutory holidays, counting back from the date of the day requested.
(2)	Eligibility for payment of "additional holiday” shall be determined in the same manner as at present for statutory holidays, counting back from the first day of the Christmas Vacation. Until the "additional holiday” is named by statute, the eight hours pay will be included in the Christmas vacation pay .
C.	When any of the above holidays fall on Sunday or Saturday, the day observed by the federal government in respect of its employees as the holiday shall be recognized. If in the Province of Nova Scotia, a holiday is more generally recognized than any one of the holidays specified above, the signatories hereto will substitute such holidays.
D.	The service qualification for payment of any of the holidays specified above is as follows:-
The employee must have been in the active employ of the Corporation for at least thirty (30) days.
The employee must have been entitled to wages for at least fifteen (15) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday concerned.
E.	For the purposes of this paragraph "entitled to wages” shall be assumed to include the authorized absences as outlined in Article 23, Vacation with Pay Plan, provided that the employee has actually started one (1) shift in the thirty (30) calendar days prior to the respective holiday.
- 13 -
G.
H.

f! i
i '
J
The rate of pay for datal pay employees will be their usual datal rate of the pay week in which the holiday occurs.
The rate of pay for datal employees shall be one day at the rate of the majority of shifts paid in the week in which the holiday occurs. In cases where an equal number of shifts have been worked at different rates or where several rates are paid during the week in which the holiday occurs, the rate of pay for the holiday shall be at the average daily rate earned in that week.
Employees who work on statutory holidays shall be paid at the rate of double time in addition to the regular eight (8) hour holiday pay. This double time payment is wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his remaining regular rostered shifts during the week which the holiday occurs. Holidays for which employees receive pay even if they are employed on that day shall be considered as one (1) shift worked and this one (1) shift shall be used in computing their five (5) day, forty (40) hours work week.
NOTE: Employees who are currently covered for double time provisions under the Collective Agreement between the parties signatory hereto, dated 15 October 1979, shall continue to be eligible for double time payment as therein described.
10.6	Retirement Allowance
I Effective January 1, 1996, the retirement allowance paid \	to each active employee, early retirement incentive plan,
w	and compassionate disability recipient on attainment of
their normal retirement age (Age 65) increased through escalation to $1,124.52.
-ESCALATION
The retirement allowance is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases January 1st of each year, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases, and, if the aforementioned formula by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the retirement allowance is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
14 -
10.7
0,

A.
1.
Supplementary Unemployment Benefit
The general purpose of the Cape Breton Development Corporation Supplementary Unemployment Benefit Plan is to supplement the Employment Insurance Benefits of eligible employees represented by the United Mine Workers of America, receiving Employment Insurance Benefits as a result of layoff.
An eligible employee is one who has completed his probationary period and is deemed to be- a permanent employee.
The Plan is administered by the Corporation and financed out of general revenue, and a separate accounting will be kept of S.U.B. payments.
The Plan will become effective on December 1, 1995, and will be reviewed, and revised if necessary, from time to time to ensure its ongoing appropriateness. The Corporation will notify the Human Resouces Developmnt Canada Department within thirty (30) days of the effective date of such revision.
B.
The maximum number of weeks of S.U.B. payments shall be fifty-two (52).
The S.U.B. will be $67.44 per week (1996 $), subject to indexation on January 1, 1997, and on January 1 of each year thereafter. In any week the total of S.U.B payments and the weekly rate of E.I. benefits will not exceed 95% of the employees weekly earnings . The employee does not have any vested rights under the S.U.B Plan, except to receive payment for the covered unemployment periods. The S.U.B. can only be renewed for the duration of the Collective Agreement between the Cape Breton Development Corporation and United Mine Workers of America.
An employee must apply for, and'be in receipt of, employment insurance benefits to receive benefits under the Plan, except if:	(a) he/she is serving the two week
waiting period; (b) he/she has insufficient weeks of insurable employment to qualify for E.I. benefits; (c) his/her entitlement to E.I. has exhausted.
No Supplementary Unemployment Benefit is payable if an employee -
(1)	has submitted his/her resignation:
(2)	has been suspended for disciplinary reasons;
2
3
4
5
- 15 -
J) takes part in a strike, walkout, picket, act of sabotage or other action towards the work place or any other conflict in which the employees participate:
(4)	is receiving Wage Loss Replacement benefits for current compensation (not including permanent partial disability pensions), E.I. sick benefits, weekly indemnity, or long term disability:
(5)	is on leave of absence;
(6)	refuses to return to work when asked by the Corporation in accordance with the seniority provisions of the Agreement or for any other reason.
C.	Payments in respect of deferred remuneration or severance pay benefits will not be reduced or increased by payments received under the Plan.
1.	The Corporation's Revenue Taxation registration number is CBD 100064.
2.	The number of employees covered under the Plan is approximately 1380.
D.	ESCALATION
The Supplementary Unemployment Benefit of sixty-seven dollars and forty-four cents ($67.44) per weekly pay period, as described in the Collective Agreement, shall be escalated annually for cost-of living increases commencing January 1, 1997, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost of living increases, and if the aforementioned formula by which the Canada Pension Plan shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the Supplementary Unemployment Benefit is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
ARTICLE 11	SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
11.1	Definition of a Grievance
A grievance shall be defined as any difference arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement.
11.2	Should any difference arise between the Corporation and any of the employees covered under this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to resolve such differences before grievances are filed.
1« -
.Ll. 3
11.4
11.5
11.6
step 1- Within fifteen (15) days of the grievance arising, the grievor will file with his/her supervisor a written grievance on the form provided and will meet within five (5) days with his/her supervisor, the designated manager, and Employee Relations Manager along with his/her Mine Committee to discuss the grievance.
Management will provide a written answer within three (3) days after this first meeting. (Saturdays, Sundays, and Holidays excluded)
Step 2 - After receiving management's reply, the grievor will have three (3) days to notify the appropriate management person that he/she wishes to proceed further with his/her grievance. Within seven (7) days after such notice, the General Mine Manager, Designated Manager, Supervisor, and Employee Relations Manager will meet with the grievor and his/her Mine Co^ittee along with the appropriate Union Sub-District Board Member to try to settle the grievance. The General Mine Manager will give his written decision within seven (7) days after this second meeting.
Step 3 - Arbitration: Within fourteen (14) days after the General Mine Manager's decision, it will be decided whether or not to take the grievance to arbitration. Any arbitration under this grievance procedure will be conducted by a single arbitrator selected on a rotating basis from a pool of arbitrators, three nominated by the Union and three by the Corporation. Each arbitrator will, as far as practicable, examine and deal with any dispute or grievance referred to him/her within fifteen (15) days after the date of notice to him/her that the dispute or grievance exists and will render his/her decision or award within fifteen (15) days after the parties to the dispute have presented their respective submissions to him/her.
Each arbitrator will have jurisdiction and authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of the Collective Agreement so far as will be necessary to the determination of the dispute or grievance before the arbitrator. No arbitrator will have any power to alter or change in any way the provisions of the Collective Agreement or to substitute any new provision for any existing provision or to give any decision or award inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement.
17
.. 1
11
11
11.
11
11.
11.
. 7	All parties to any dispute or grievance will do all such
acts and things as are necessary to enable any arbitrator to make proper findings respecting the matter before him/her, and any arbitrator may at his/her discretion call such witnesses and examine such documents as he/she may require. All the parties will on their respective parts in all things obey, abide by, perform and keep the award and findings of an arbitrator .
.8	No arbitrator will consider a dispute or grievance in
respect of which or as a result of which any strike , lock-out, or other cessation of work exists. Any period, during which any such strike, lock-out, or other cessation continues will not be considered as part of the period or periods limited under Step Three of. the grievance procedure. With respect to any grievance concerning discipline, including any grievance by an employee who has been discharged, the burden shall be on the Corporation to establish grounds for discipline.
.9	Any party to a dispute may at any time before the
findings or decision of an arbitrator make written submissions to him/her. An arbitrator may at his/her discretion at any time require any party to a dispute or grievance to make such written submissions as he/she may determine. An arbitrator will hold his/her sittings at such time and place as he/she may from time to time determine. The costs of any arbitration under the new grievance procedure will be borne equally between the Union and the Corporation.
10	The party initiating the grievance will take each step within the time limits set, or as extended by mutual written agreement between the Union and the Corporation. .
11	It will be contrary to the spirit and intent of the grievance procedure for any employee to attempt to or to lay any mine or section of mine idle for the purpose of forcing a settlement of any grievance .
12	The Corporation will have the option to decline to consider any grievance the alleged circumstances of which originated or occurred more than fifteen (15) days
(Saturdays, Sundays, and Holidays excluded) prior to its presentation at Step One.
13	If any employee refuses to continue at work because of a grievance which has not been taken up for adjustment in the manner provided herein, and such action shall seem likely to impede the operation of the mine, the Mine Committee, when called upon by the Mine Manager, shall immediately furnish an employee(s) to take such vacant places, in order that the mine may continue at work. It
- 18 -
11.14
ARTICLE
12.1
12.2
12 .3
12.4
12.5
shall be the duty of any member or members of the United Mine Workers of America, when so called upon by the Mine Manager and the Mine Committee and if competent to do the required work, immediately to take the place or places assigned to him/her or them in pursuance of such call.
Under no circumstances shall a grievance be taken up for adjustment during a suspension of work in violation of this Agreement.
I DISCHARGE PROCEDURE
No employee covered by this Agreement may be disciplined or discharged except for just cause. The burden shall be on the Employer to establish grounds for discharge in all proceedings under this Agreement .
Where Management concludes that the conduct of an employee justifies discharge, the employee shall be suspended with intent to discharge and shall be given written notice stating the reason, with a copy to be furnished to the Mine Committee. After twenty-four hours, but within forty-eight hours, the employee shall be afforded the right to meet with the operating site manager. At such meeting, it shall be the right of the employee to have present representatives of the Mine Coirrnittee and/or the District. When the District Representative requests, the forty-eight hour time limit will be extended by an additional forty-eight hours .
If any employee feels that he/she has been unjustly disciplined, he/ she shall have the right of appeal through the grievance procedure at Step 2. Such appeal must be filed in writing by the Union with the Corporation within fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of notification of discipline and unless so filed the right of appeal shall be lost.
Should it be found upon investigation that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, such employee shall be immediately reinstated in his/her former position without loss of seniority rating, and shall be compensated for all time lost in an amount equal to his/her average daily earnings during the pay period next preceding such discharge or suspension .
If the District believes that just cause for discharge does not exist, it shall arrange with the employer for immediate arbitration of the dispute, bypassing all other steps of the grievance procedure .
19
.l2.6	The appropriate arbitrator shall hear the case as soon as possible. Following the hearing, the arbitrator shall forthwith reduce his/her decision to writing within fifteen days. If the arbitrator determines that the employer has failed to establish just cause for the employee's discharge, the employee shall be immediately reinstated to his/her job.
ARTICLE	13 REGULARITY OF WORK
13.1	Devco and the Union agree that conscientious and regular work is essential to the agreed objectives of maintaining employment at good wages, and both parties therefore recognize that absenteeism is a serious obstacle to their objectives.
13.2	Accordingly, Devco and the Union agree that it is a condition of continued employment that no employee will be absent from a rostered shift, other than for reasons (such as compensable accident or welfare) already known to Devco, unless he/she gives the Colliery General Manager's Office notice of his/her intended absence, along with a satisfactory reason for same at least two hours before the starting time of the rostered shift.
13.3	An employee who has been absent, for any reason other than one where the precise period of the absence was arranged in advance, must ensure that the Colliery Manager's office is informed of his/her intended return to work at least two hours before the starting time of the shift and if such notice has not been given he/she will be sent home.
13.4	When an employee has been absent from work for ten (10) or more working days due to injury or illness (either occupational or non-occupational) he/she must give notice of intention to return to work in accordance with the foregoing paragraph and in addition he/she shall report in person to the General Manager or his/her designate and provide satisfactory medical evidence of illness/injury and fitness to return to work.
13.5	An employee shall not be classified as absentee when: (1)	He/she has complied with the provisions of Clause 13.2 above. (2)	An investigation by management of a case of absent employee (s) discloses that the employee had a justifiable reason.
- 20
13.6	Corrective Procedures for absenteeism First Offense Interview and written warning Second Offense Interview and Written warning Third Offense , Interview and one(l) days suspension with pay - confirmed in writing Fourth Offense Dismissal from the employ of the Corporation
13.7	Each two (2) days an employee is absent without a satisfactory reason will be dealt with as a separate offense. The two (2) days referred to in this Clause need not necessarily be consecutive days.
13.8	An employee who is absent without leave for eight (8) or more rostered shifts shall be notified by registered letter to his/her last known address that unless he/she reports to the Manager's Office within two (2) days of receipt of such letter his/her employment with the Corporation shall be terminated.
13.9	It is clearly understood that, should an employee have a clear record for a twelve (12) month period between the first offense and the second offense and the third
A /	offense or after the third offense, his/her record shall be considered clear.
13.10	Upon reasonable notice, an employee will be permitted, in the presence of management, to review the contents of his/her personnel file. Upon written request, an employee will be permitted to review his/her medical file providing all documents requiring signature by any other parties to properly authorize such review have been completed.
ARTICLE 14	PERSONAL INCENTIVE DAYS
H H	After one years continuous service with the Corporation, an employee qualified to receive fifteen (15) days vacation pay will, if he/she has worked all his/her rostered shifts but twenty (20), be paid a personal incentive day equivalent to one day's pay at his/her current classification rate .
14.2	After five years continuous service with the Corporation, an employee qualified to receive fifteen (15) days vacation pay will, if he/she has worked all his/her rostered shifts but thirty (30), be paid a personal incentive day equivalent to 2.5 days pay at his/her current classification rate.
21 -
14.3
14.4
14.5
14.6
14.7
14.8
After ten years continuous service with the Corporation, an employee qualified to receive twenty (20) days vacation pay will, if he/she has worked all his/her rostered shifts but forty (40), be paid a personal incentive day equivalent to 3.5 days pay at his/her current classification rate.
After fifteen years continuous service with the Corporation, an employee qualified to receive twenty-two (22) days vacation pay will, if he/she has worked all his/her rostered shifts but fifty (50), be paid a personal incentive day equivalent to 4.5 days pay at his/her current classification rate.
After twenty years continuous service with the Corporation, an employee qualified to receive twenty-five (25) days vacation pay will, if he/she worked all his/her rostered shifts but sixty (60), be paid a personal incentive day equivalent to five (5) days pay at his/her current classification rate .
(1)	Rostered shifts actually worked for the purpose of
personal incentive days shall be calculated from January 1 to December 31 each year and the personal incentive days earned will be paid in the second pay period following April 1st of the following year.
(2)	The closing of a mine or section of a mine by
management for reasons outside the employees control for a period of up to six months shall not affect his/her rights to receive the personal incentive days if he/she otherwise qualifies and was on layoff and was unable to follow his/her regular schedule.
An employee summoned for jury duty and who is required to lose time from his/her regular rostered shift (s) as a result of his/her performance thereof will be deemed to have worked such regularly rostered shift(s) for the purposes of the calculation of his/her personal incentive days.
The Corporation is prepared to retain the current arrangement for accumulating credits under this Article and allow these days to be banked (at the employee's option) rather than be paid.
These banked days could then be taken as personal days off (by mutual agreement) at some future time. Employees who elect or are unable to use the banked days will have the option to carry these days over to the next calendar year orhave the days paid out at the end of the current calendar year. Employees who elect such payment must
22
notify the Employee Relations Department/Payroll Department by the end of November of each year. The maximum number of days an employee can bank is fifteen (15) over a three (3) year period.
ARTICLE 15	ESSENTIAL SERVICES
15.1	In the case of either local or general suspension of mining, either at the expiration of this Agreement, or otherwise, all employees necessary to protect the mines and other operating sites shall not suspend work, except at the option of the Corporation, but shall fully protect all the Corporation's property under their care.
15.2	In the event that employees refuse to perform the necessary work to protect the sites, the United Mine Workers of America shall provide competent employees to perform such necessary work at the applicable rates of
pay.
15.3	The Corporation shall not employ officials on continuous service positions except in those circumstances where the officers of the Union have failed to comply with the foregoing provisions of this Article.
15.4	It is also understood and agreed that no operator of equipment or machinery shall leave his/her place of work until all equipment and machinery has been shutdown in a safe and orderly manner.
ARTICLE 16	CONTRACTING OUT
'	,	The Corporation and the Union are committed to the
j\\	!/l I	productive utilization of bargaining unit employees so as
//	to minimize the requirement for contracting out of work.
Therefore, the Corporation agrees to meet with the Union to discuss fully the details of any work that may be contracted out before such work is contracted out .
ARTICLE 17	SICK LEAVE CREDITS ELIGIBILITY
Effective the first day of the calendar year following the employee's first year of Corporation service:
17.1	Employees will be eligible to receive payment for
rostered shifts absent as a result of disability due to sickness ^off duty injury. Payments under this benefit are exclusive of any premium pay, shift premium, weekend premium, or any other allowances under this agreement.
- 23
17.2
17.6
17.7
Payment under this benefit is subject to normal and statutory deductions. Payments shall not be made in addition to any other payments to which the employee may be entitled for the same disability.
Employees who are absent as a result of sickness or injury must provide management with a medical certification from a licensed physician indicating the employee was unable to perform his/her regular duties, the treatment received, and the date treatment received. Written proof of treatment for the first day of layoff where payment is to be made for layoff is required. , Medical certificate forms will be provided by the Corporation.
Employees shall accumulate sick credits at the rate of four (4) hours for each calendar month the employee works all of his/her rostered 8-hour shifts. Such sick credits will accumulate to a maximum of six (6) days credit in a calendar year .
Sick leave will accumulate from year to year to a maximum of twelve (12) days credit.
Paid time off from work for vacation, bereavement, jury duty and union business is considered as time worked under this Article.
An employee must exhaust all sick leave credits prior to making application for weekly indemnity benefits.
The letter of intent dated September 13, 1976, concerning "five free days” is cancelled and superseded by this Article .
ARTICLE 18 CHANGES OF AGREEMENT
18.1	It is agreed that during the life of this Agreement subject to the Articles of this Agreement, nothing shall be done to decrease the earning power of the employee or to increase the cost of production to the Corporation; also, it is hereby understood that no custom or condition in effect at any mine or site, other than as are altered by this Agreement, can be changed unless mutually agreed to by both parties to the Agreement. The Corporation shall notify the District Executive of any proposed change .
18.2	Not withstanding the foregoing, any rulings of the Joint Board of Adjustments respecting "Custom and Condition'' at the several collieries and auxiliary departments, except
- 24 -
insofar as the said ruling are in conflict with any subsequent agreements between the parties hereto, shall continue to be recognized.
ARTTCT.E 19	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
19.1	An employee assigned temporarily to perform work in a classification paying a lower rate than his/her own, shall be paid his/her regular rate, providing that his/her regular occupation is required in operation.
19.2	If an employee is assigned to a higher classification, he/she shall be paid the higher rate .
19.3	If any employee requests in writing and is granted a transfer to a lower rate position, he/she will be paid the lower rate from date of transfer.
19.4	Any employee who after having worked for twenty consecutive shifts at a job or jobs carrying a higher wage classification as set out in the rate schedule of this Agreement, shall be established at such higher classification as long as he/she continues to satisfactorily perform the work on the higher paid job.
19.5	The Corporation shall give each employee established at such higher wage classification job or jobs as the result of the application of the above paragraph, ten working days prior written notice by registered mail of the reduction of his/her lower paid classification . If an employee has not been given lo-day notice, he/she will be paid a differential for the ten days in lieu thereof equal to the difference between his/her established higher classification rate and the lower classification rate at which he/she was working.
ARTICLE 20	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
20.1	For all purposes of the Collective Agreement, technological change shall have the meaning defined in the Canada Labour Code .
20.2	For the purpose of the technological change provisions of the Collective Agreement, an incumbent shall mean any employee with more than ten (10) years compensated service from last date of hire .
20.3	No incumbent shall be laid off from the Corporation due to technological change: provided that any incumbent, if
I-,	|	required by the Corporation due to any technological
- 25 -
20.4
change, shall submit to reasonable retraining by or under the auspices of the Corporation and shall accept transfer to any operating site within the Corporation.
Nothing in these provisions shall be construed as a waiver by an employee, whether inc^umbent or otherwise, of his/her right under the Canada Labour Code to make an application in respect of technological change.
ARTTC.T.E 21
DEATH BENEFIT PLAN
21.1	In the event of an instantaneous death of any employee by
accident at any of the Corporation's operating sites, the Union will arrange for each local to canvass each of its members to contribute ten dollars ($10.00) to the widow or other designated beneficiary. Up to a maximum of $5,000, the Corporation will match 50% of the total contributions so canvassed, and the Corporation's contribution will be in addition to any life insurance coverage that may be payable. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Collective Agreement or any past practice, custom or condition, except during the shift in which the death occurs, there shall be no dis continuance or cessation of work at that producing mine on account of the death , and there shall be no closure of the mine, but the mine shall resume work as normal on the next shift .
21.2	In case the operator elects to work the mine on the day of the funeral of the deceased, as above, or where death has resulted from an accident in the mine, individual employees may, at their option, absent themselves from work for the purpose of attending such funeral,but not otherwise.
21.3	Except in case of fatal accidents, as above, a mine shall in no instance be thrown idle because of any death or funeral. In the case, however, of the death of any employee of the Corporation or member of his family, an individual employee may, at his option, absent himself from work for the purpose of attending such funeral, but not otherwise.
21.4	Effective March 1, 1973, notwithstanding anything in this
'	article, the Corporation will, subject to the terms and
conditions set forth hereunder, make a compassionate lump sum payment not exceeding a total of $25,000 to the widow and wholly dependent children of any employee who is fatally injured while at his work place .
21.5	The maximum sum payable to the widow shall be $10,000. In cases where the deceased employee has no surviving widow, then the principal sum of $10,000 which would
26
otherwise have been payable to the widow shall be made to the legal guardian, if any, for the benefit of the deceased employees wholly dependent children.
21.6
21.7
21.8
The maximum sum payable in respect to wholly dependent children shall be $15,000 calculated on the following basis:-
(1)	For each wholly dependent child $5,000 to a maximum of three children or $15,000
(2)	In cases where there are more than three wholly dependent children, the amount per child shall be
determined by dividing $15,000 by the total number of wholly dependent children.
Any dispute or question which may in the future arise from the interpretation or meaning of the words: employee, fatal injury, legal guardian, workplace, widow or wholly dependent children, shall be resolved in a context as determined by the Workers’ Compensation Board of Nova Scotia.
Death Benefit for Pensioners
It is agreed that subject to the exceptions outlined herein there will be a deduction of ten (10) cents from each employee and the amount so deducted shall be added to a seven hundred fifty dollar ($750) Death Benefit from the Corporation and paid to the beneficiary upon the death of any person who retired prior to November 1, 1965, under the provisions of the 1923 Pension Plan, provided that such person had no benefits under the current Group Life Insurance Plan. For the purpose of this Article any employee who was on the books of the Dominion Coal Co. Ltd. or Old Sydney Colliers Ltd. but off work at November 1,	1965, and who dies prior to
returning to work, the beneficiary shall be considered eligible for the Death Benefit as outlined herein.
If the Government accepts responsibility and a Compensation Pension has been paid or if the former employee is on a wburnt-out" pension, there will be a ten cent deduction from the employees but no matching amount by the Corporation.
It is understood and agreed that changes as provided herein for the 10 and 10 Death Benefit plan are retroactive to January 1, 1979.
- 27 -
ARTICLE 22 MISCELLANEOUS
H • CM CM	Strikes/Lockouts It is distinctly understood and agreed that in case of all disputes and grievances of every nature arising under this agreement, the operations shall continue- at work pending settlement.
CM • CM CM	Violation of Agreement No laws or rules shall be made by any Local Union or group of Local Unions in violation of this Agreement, joint agreements to have precedence over National, District, and Local Constitutions.
22.3	Security Guards It is understood and agreed that, from time to time, the Corporation security guards will have the right on corporate property to search employees leaving their work.
• CM CM	New Work
\U '/. . ■	When the development of a new mine is begun, or when a new site becomes operational, during the period of this Agreement, or new machinery installed or new methods of handling the project are adopted, then the datal rate covering the labour at such new mines or sites under such changed conditions will be the same as in other mines or sites in the neighbourhood where similar conditions exist. Where no similar conditions exist, the datal rate will be negotiated by the District Executive and the representatives of the Corporation.
in • CM CM	Training Programs
.;•\l •' 11	The Union agrees to cooperate fully with the Corporation in the development of training programs so that qualified personnel will be available to perform tasks requiring a higher degree of skill occasioned by the mechanization of the operations and introduction of new methods .
22.6	Hand Tools The Corporation will incur, to a reasonable extent, the cost of replacing worn-out or broken hand tools of surface carpenters, provided broken or worn-out tools belonging to surface carpenters are turned in to the Corporation.
28
-2.7
/ l
22.8
Employee Assistance Program
Without detracting from the existing rights and obligations of the parties recognized in other provisions of the Agreement, the Corporation and the Union agree to cooperate at their respective sites in encouraging employees afflicted with personal problems/substance abuse to undergo a coordinated program directed to the objective of his/her rehabilitation.
Price of workmens' Coal
Effective September 10, 1996
Eligible Employees	$46.00
Pre-Retirement Leave
Pensioners	$18.00
Compassionate Disability
Pensioners	$18.00
Regular Pensioners	$ 7.00
All prices quoted are for run-of-mine coal supplied at the mine or coal yard .
Where it is necessary to transport coal over a railway in order to make delivery, the cost of transportation shall be added to the price.
The Corporation will make every effort to provide a better quality of run-of-mine coal to its employees.
22.9	Security of Employment
\)
No employee who was on the books of Devco on August 1st, 1968, will be removed from the books unless he/she is placed on the Pre-Retirement Leave Plan or offered reasonable alternative employment, subject to the following conditions:
1.	The above undertaking in no way limits the right of Devco, because of its responsibility for the safe and efficient conduct of operations, to suspend or dismiss any employee for just cause.
2.	The above undertaking in no way qualifies the responsibility of Devco temporarily to reduce or suspend a particular operation or part of an operation if such action is necessary to the satisfactory conduct and development of the mining operations as a whole within the funds provided by the Parliament of Canada.
-29 -
3.	The above undertaking in no way qualifies the right of Devco to lay off employees if abnormal circumstances so require, but Devco will make every reasonable effort to ensure that a full forty hours work in each week is available to all employees who comply with the rules of regular attendance described in Article 13.
22.10	Lunch Breaks During each eight-hour shift, a surface employee is entitled to a lunch break of one period of twenty minutes, at a time agreed between Management and Officers, of the local Union and should be taken at his/her place of work and at a time so as to not prejudice the overall efficiency of the operation. An underground employee will take a lunch break at his/her place of work and at a time so as to not prejudice the overall efficiency of the operation.
22.11	Letters of Understanding It is understood and agreed that all letters of understanding form part of the Collective Agreement
article	23 VACATION WITH PAY
23.1	APPLICABILITY Vacation with pay shall apply to all employees of the Cape Breton Development Corporation (Coal Division) covered by this Agreement .
23.2	SERVICE TO QUALIFY To be eligible for his/her first vacation, an employee must have been in the service of the Corporation for a continuous period of twelve months. Thereafter when eligible, the number of vacation days to which an employee shall be entitled in any one calendar year shall be based upon the period he/she was in the employ of the Corporation during the previous calendar year in accordance with the terms set forth in the subsequent clauses .
23.3	MAXIMUM VACATION The maximum vacation with pay which may be earned shall be twenty (25) days, commencing January 1, 1997.
- 30
3.4
ASSESSMENT OF VACATION
As soon as possible after the first of January in each year, the eligibility of every employee for vacation shall be calculated based on the number of days worked (re Sec. 23.5) less vacation entitlements, (depending upon years of service) and holidays.
A.	Twmunbant Employees Prior to January 1. 1997:
The maximum vacation with pay which may be earned shall be twenty-five (25) days for service in exceSs of twenty years, beginning January 1, 1997.
0 J /
j Vacation entitlements for incumbent employees with less j than twenty years service will be calculated as follows:
/0
/ :
/ ■.
I (
()
.I

' \
B.
after 10 years -after 12 years -after 14 years -after 16 years -after 18 years -after 20 years -
Nrw Employees tn Corporation
20	days
21	days
22	days
23	days
24	days
25	days
Subsequent kn January 1/97s
New employees to the Corporation will be entitled to earn fifteen (15) days vacation from their first (1st) year of full employment to the tenth (10th) year of employment. Entitlement for years of service beyond ten (10) years will be calculated as stated above.
23.S
l.
2.
CALCULATION OF DAYS OF WORK
For the purpose of calculating the number of days of actual work in addition to taking the number of days on which work was actually performed, absence from work for the following reasons shall be counted as days of actual work.
Sickness absence - if supported by a medical certificate deposited with the Corporation within seven days of the employee's returning to work, provided that the aggregated period or periods of sickness in any one calendar year or period of sickness does not exceed three months.
Accident absence - if either supported by a medical certificate deposited with the Corporation within seven days of the employees return to work or by Workmen’s Compensation Records, provided that the aggregated period or periods of such absence in any one calendar year does not exceed three months.
- 31
3.
4.
5.
6.
NOTE:
Closing of a mine or section of a mine by the Management for reasons outside the employees control.
If an employee is absent for any justified cause, he/she must prove to the satisfaction of the Manager or the head of any auxiliary department as the case may be that the cause of his/her absence was justified.
Employees granted leave of absence by a Mine Manager in connection with Trade Union business, or to attend conventions of United Mine Workers of America,. shall be allowed to count such absence as days of actual work. This sub-clause does not apply to the members of a committee of workmen who examine the workings of a mine in accordance with the provisions of Part IV of the Canada Labour Code, who shall be considered to be absent with justified cause.
Should an employee report for work on a working day on his/her own shift and find no work available to him/her, that day will be credited to him/her as a work day for vacation purposes provided he/she does not refuse work offered him/her. In the event, however, that no work is available to him because of action of a fellow employee or fellow employees, that day will not be credited to him/his for vacation purposes as a day worked.
All time lost for reason other than those defined above shall be recorded as absences without leave and shall not be included when computing actual days of work.
Additional hours worked over and above the normal day shall not be taken into account in calculating days of actual work for the purpose of vacation except that where an employee is required by the Management to work two shifts of eight hours each within the twenty-four hours, the two shifts so worked shall be counted as two days.
When employees are rostered in accordance with provision of Article 9.1 (B) of this Agreement they shall work their full five day rostered work week and be given credit for the sixth day in that rostering period. If an employee does not work his/her full rostered work week, he/she will not be given any vacation credits unless he/she substantiates his/her absence according to Section
23.5	of this Article.
^WHERE APPLICABLE THE 2 FOR 23 FORMULA AND THE FORMER LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 2 WILL CONTINUE TO APPLY.
32
,3.6 (A) TIME OF VACATIONS
The normal vacation period shall be the last complete week in July, the first two weeks of August and the week during which Christmas falls. It is understood however that from time to time it will be necessary to perform work that can only be done during a shutdown of operations and that such work may require employees of particular skills.
With the fifth week (5 days) added to the vacation with pay article commencing January 1, 1998, employees with the required credits as outlined in Clause 23.5 hereof will be allowed to take the added week at a time mutually convenient to the Corporation and the employee. Employees will be allowed to take individual days to total ten {10) to the extent of their remaining credits at a time mutually convenient to the employee and management .
23.6	(B) VACATION SCHEDULING
The Corporation will advise the Union of the extent to which it plans to schedule production, development, or maintenance work at its various collieries and surface operations and will identify employees to fill the scheduled requirements in the following manner.
1.	By January 15th of each year, the Corporation will
determine in as much detail as possible the numbers and required skills of employees who are needed to work during the normal summer vacation period and will post these requirements on the bulletin boards at the various sites.
2.	Employees who are prepared to commit themselves to working during the normal vacation period can submit their name on a form provided for this purpose. The form will also indicate the specific weeks of the vacation period which they will work and must be submitted by March 1st.
3.	By March 15th, the Corporation will advise the employees
who have submitted their application to work whether their request can be accommodated. Employees within the various skills categories will be accommodated in order of their seniority.	.
4.	If there is an insufficient number of employees to fill the required positions, the most junior qualified bargaining unit employees from that site will be
-33 -
scheduled to fill the remaining vacancies. This will be completed by March 31st and the final vacation listing will be posted.
5.	Those employees who will be working during the normal
vacation period will take their vacation at a time mutually agreeable to the employee and the Corporation. The vacation time frame for these employees will be from May to November unless the employee requests another date outside this time frame . The Corporation will have the right to schedule such vacation at such time so as.not to adversely affect the operation and will limit on the basis of seniority, if required.
NOTE:	The Corporation will post the dates for the annual
Christmas vacation period.
23.7	VACATION DAYS CANNOT BE ACCUMULATED FROM YEAR TO YEAR.
23.8	VACATION PAY
Employees shall be paid their current classification rate of pay per day for each earned vacation day .	For the
purposes of this Article an employee's current classification rate of pay per day shall be determined by whatever classification rate of pay per day he/she received for fifty (50%) percent of the shifts actually worked by him/her in the first five (5) months of the year during which the vacation is taken.
Should six (6%) percent of the employee's gross earnings for previous calendar year exceed the vacation pay as calculated in this Article, then the daily rate of pay will be adjusted to allow payment of the higher amount.
23.9	COMPLAINTS
Any employee having a complaint with regard to his/her vacation may have it treated as a grievance and dealt with in accordance with the procedure as outlined in the Collective Agreement .
23.10	WAGES NOT PAID IN LIEU OF VACATION
Employees shall not be paid for vacations not taken except under the special circumstances outlined under
23.5	{2).
-34 -
..,j.11	TERMINATION OF SERVICE
l.	If an employee not having been dismissed for just cause, leaves the service of the Corporation for reasons beyond the employee's control at a time when an unused period of vacation with pay stands to the employee's credit, he/she shall be paid the amount due him/her in lieu of vacation calculated to the date of the employee's leaving the service of the Corporation.
2.	If an employee leaves the service of the Corporation of his/her own accord, or is dismissed for just cause, at a time when an unused period of vacation with pay stands to his/her credit, he/ she shall be paid the amount due him/her in lieu of vacation calculated to the end of the previous calendar year, except that credits as provided under Section 44 of the Canada Labour Code shall apply.
ARTICLE 24	APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING
24.l .!	The Corporation will establish and ma i n t a i n an Apprenticeship Program to train and develop employees in the skilled trades in accordance with the terms and conditions specified by the Nova Scotia Department of Labour.
24.2	It is agreed that apprentices will not be placed at employment not related to their training program except in emergency situations.
24.3	Eligibility for participation in the Apprenticeship Program is restricted to those of the Corporation's active employees who have the following minimum requirements:- 1)	three years of service with the Corporation; and 2)	a Grade 10 academic or equivalent education.
24.4	The number of participants in the Apprenticeship Program at any given time will be determined by the Corporation .
24.5	Notice of vacancies in the Apprenticeship Program will be posted at locations throughout the Corporation for a period of seven (7) days. Applicants with the minimum requirements set out in Clause 3 of this Article and who also, in the opinion of the Corporation, have satisfactory work records and recommendations from appropriate departments and have had satisfactory interviews and aptitude test results, will be considered
-35 -
for positions in the Apprenticeship Program. The Corporation may also consider an applicant's previous training.	Selection of	participants to	the
Apprenticeship Program shall be at the sole discretion of the Corporation.
24.6	Participants in the Apprenticeship Program shall earn
wages equivalent to the underground labourer classification during the first twenty-four (24) months of their apprenticeship and thereafter, their wages will increase	progressively in	accordance with	the
Apprenticeship rate schedule.
24.7	The instructional content of the Apprenticeship Program shall be consistent with the requirements of the Apprenticeship Division, Nova Scotia Department of Labour and the operational requirements of the Corporation.
24.8	An apprentice failing a year will have his/her position
reviewed by the Corporation, and if his/her work and school performance are not satisfactory, his/her participation in the Apprentice ship Program may be terminated by the Corporation . An apprentice who fails any two years of the Apprenticeship Program will be removed from the Apprenticeship Program and returned to available work for which he/she is qualified and able to do in the bargaining unit. An employee who is removed from the Apprenticeship Program will only be returned to work if he/ she was	working for	the Corporation
immediately prior to entering the Apprenticeship Program.
24.9	When an employee	successfully	completes the
Apprenticeship Program,	his/her job	location shall be
determined by Article 25 - Seniority.	Wages will be paid
in accordance with this Agreement .
ARTICLE 25	SENIORITY
25.l	Definitions
BARGAINING UNIT SENIORITY:	is defined as the length of
continuous service the employee now has accumulated withinthe jurisdiction of the bargaining unit prescribed by the Canada Labour Relations Board between the United Mine Workers of America and the Cape Breton Development Corporation.
OPERATING SITE SENIORITY:	is defined as the length of
continuous service of an employee at an operating site whether by direct hiring at or transfer to that site. Site seniority shall only begin to accumulate from the date an employee has actually started to work at that site. If more than one employee starts at a site on the same day, the employee with
- 36

the most bargaining unit seniority shall be placed higher on the site seniority list.
ABILITY: is defined as the ability to do the job following the completion of a trial period of up to thirty (30) days, or successful completion of a designated training program which for the purpose of this Article will not exceed thirty (30) days.
25.2	Operating Sites
Central Workshops, Central Warehouse, & General Mining Bldg
Dominion Coal Yard
Transportation (Trucking & Railway)
Victoria Junction Coal Preparation Plant
International Coal Pier
Prince Colliery
Phalen Colliery
Lingan Colliery
Donkin-Marien Colliery
Any new working sites established within the jurisdiction of the Cape Breton Development Corporation and this bargaining unit shall become a part of paragraph (A) .
25.3	Eligibility
1.	Any new employee shall have his/her name and original date of
l1.,	hire placed on the bargaining unit seniority list and relevant
'*{'	operating site seniority list after he/she has satisfactorily
completed the probationary period of ninety (90) days actually worked, including days worked in the successful completion of any Corporation entry training program.
2.	Any employee who has enrolled in an apprenticeship program shall accumulate bargaining unit seniority while on said program. Any such apprentice who is at the operating site where he/she served all of his/her apprenticeship shall accumulate operating site seniority there retroactive to the first day of his/her apprenticeship.
3.	Any apprentice who apprentices at more than one operating site shall be entitled to include in their operating site seniority that time served at the operating site where they completed their apprenticeship . Any apprentice who is at an operating site other than that at which he/she served or completed their apprenticeship, shall accumulate operating site seniority from the first day of his/her start at that other operating site.
4.	Similarly, regular employees accepted for any Corporation training programs shall continue to accumulate their bargaining unit and operating site seniority while enrolled in that training.
- 37 -
-5.4 Loss of Seniority
Employees on layoff shall continue to accrue bargaining unit and site seniority.
An employee shall lose his/her bargaining unit and operating site seniority if:-
(1)	He/she retires, resigns, or, while on layoff from the Corporation, refuses recall.
(2)	He/she does not meet the conditions of recall, pursuant
to Article 25.7 (B) , (1) through (3) inclusive ..
(3)	He/she is discharged for just cause and not reinstated.
(4)	In order to help requalify laid off United Mine Workers of America employees for EI benefits, employees will for the term of this agreement only be permitted to perform work for the Corporation outside the jurisdiction of this agreement for sixty (60) working days in a calendar year without loss of seniority.
NOTE:	Each day is of a 24-hour duration and two shifts in a 24-
hour period will be considered a working day when computing thirty (3O) working days.
An employee shall lose his operating site seniority thirty (30) days after he/she transfers to another site whether by job posting and/or bumping.
25.5	Seniority Lists
For the purpose of determining seniority, a bargaining unit seniority list shall be maintained by the Corporation. Each bargaining unit seniority list shall show the names, classifications, check numbers, and bargaining unit and operating site seniority commencement dates of all employees of the bargaining unit employed by the Corporation. An updated bargaining unit seniority list shall be posted semiannually, January 31st and June 30th, at operating sites, and the Union will be provided with copies of such lists. If there is no objection by an employee to the bargaining unit seniority or operating site seniority list within the terms of the grievance procedure within thirty (30) calendar days after posting, the list shall be deemed conclusively to be correct . It is the responsibility of the employee to ensure that his/her seniority date is correct until the list is reposted in six months time.
25.6
A. Workforce Reduction & Layoff - General
1.	In the event of an unforeseen interruption of production
at an operating site or part thereof, or any temporary reduction of the work force at a site for a continuous
-38 -
period of fourteen (14) calendar days or less, employees
,	! will be reduced based on their operating site seniority.
'■	; Management will within two working days meet with the
.	Union to discuss the details of such reductions.
\	Employees required to perform any necessary work at that
site will be assigned to such work based on operating site seniority and the immediate ability to perform the work.
2.	At least forty-eight (48) hours prior to any temporary or
permanent closure of any operating site or part thereof, or any temporary or permanent reduction in the work force for ■reasons other than closure, which will result in either operating site seniority or bargaining unit seniority becoming the governing factor in layoffs and recalls necessitated by any such closure or reduction, Corporationmanagement shall meet with the Union District
Executive and appropriate grievance committees. The Corporation shall thereby notify the Union of the nature of the closure or reduction and provide it with the best information available at that time concerning layoff.
B.	Seniority Effect - Temporary Closure
1.	In the event of a temporary shutdown of an operating
site, or any part thereof, or in the event of a temporary reduction in the work force at an operating site, or any part thereof, for reasons other than permanent closure, for a continuous period of ninety (90) calendar days or less, employees will be laid off in reverse order of their operating site seniority and will be recalled in reverse order of layoff, to the extent that employees have the ability required for the jobs available to them by operating site seniority. In any such event, an employee's bargaining unit seniority shall have no effect as the governing factor in layoffs and recalls.
2.	Employees who are on layoff for a continuous period of
ninety (90) calendar days as a result of a temporary shutdown or a temporary reduction will have the right to bump as per Article 25.6(C) and may do so by informing the Employee Relations Department. Any employee wishing to exercise their right to bump must notify the Employee Relations Department within five (5) working days of reaching the ninety (90) calendar days.
C.	Permanent Closure ‘ Layoff
1.	The Corporation will advise Union representatives in
advance of any layoffs and provide details of classifications involved, and it is understood and agreed that employees who exercise their seniority in the
- 39 -
bumping process must also have the ability to perform the work as outlined in Ability 25.1 of this Article 25.
2.	Permanent Closure:	In the event of a permanent closure
of an operating site or any part thereof, or in the event of a permanent reduction of the work -force at a site other than closure, employees shall be laid- off in reverse order of their bargaining unit seniority. Probationary employees will be laid off first:	then
permanent employees .
(A)	An employee who is laid off from a classification at his/her site will be the most junior employee
/	j	from that classification and will have the right to
yiV v	bump the most junior employee in any classification
at that site or the must junior employee within I	his/her classification in the bargaining unit. If
the employee cannot bump in his/her classification in the bargaining unit, then he/she shall have the right to bump the next most junior employee whose job he/she has the ability to perform.
(B)	An employee bumped from a classification at a particular site will have the right to bump the most junior employee at that site or the most junior employee in the bargaining unit. If an employee does not have the ability to bump the most junior employee, whether at the site or in the bargaining unit, as the case may be, then he/she shall have the right to bump the next most junior employee whose job he/she has the ability to perform.
(C)	Any employee bumped from a site in accordance with 2(a) shall have the right to bump the most junior employee in the bargaining unit. If the employee does not have the ability to bump the most junior employee in the bargaining unit, then he/sheshall have the right to bump the next most junior employee whose job he/ she has the ability to perform.
(D)	Employees laid off who are unable to exercise their seniority under A,B, or C shall be placed in available positions at the discretion of management .
25.7	Recalls
A. Employees with the required ability who are laid off from a site on a temporary basis shall be recalled to their site based on their site seniority.
- 40
Employees who are on layoff from the bargaining unit shall be subject to recall to sites other than the one from which they were originally laid off by bargaining unit seniority, if reasonable and practicable to do so, before the Corporation would hire new employees from outside the bargaining unit. Employees given such opportunities shall be recalled to their original operating sites on the basis of site unit seniority and training to whichever job vacancies or new positions arise at those original operating sites. Management will meet with Union representatives to ensure the Union is fully aware. of all such recalls .
B. Methods and Conditions of Recall to Employment
1.	Employees shall be recalled in the normal manner, by telephone. In the event that an employee is unable to be reached by telephone, a registered letter will be forwarded to the employee' s last address on file with the Corporation. A copy of the letter shall be sent to his/her local Union. It shall be a condition of recall that each individual employee keep the Corporation informed of the address and telephone number of his/her current residence .
2.	An employee shall be allowed fifteen (15) calendar days from the date the registered letter or notification thereof is first delivered at the employee's address to report to work. Failure to report to work will result in his/her name being removed from the Corporation's employment roll.
3.	If, however, due to reasons of geographical location, injury, illness, or having to give his/her present employer a specific period of notice before terminating his/her employment, a recalled employee unable to report to work within the fifteen (15) days, then in such cases, Union and Management by agreement will give a reasonable period of time for such persons to report back to work. This agreement shall be in writing, signed by both parties .
25.8
Job Posting
In the event that management's actions create a new ,,f\\	classification or create a permanent vacancy within a
) '■	classification at an operating site, a notice shall be
!	posted in the manner below to inform employees in the
bargaining unit of the new job or permanent job vacancy.
1. This notice shall be posted for a period of seven (7) working days at all operating sites where employees in
- 41
the bargaining unit are employed. This notice shall set out the job description and qualifications required for the jobs and copies of the notice shall be sent to the appropriate union locals.
Within fourteen (14) calendar days of such posting, the job shall be awarded to the employee at the operating site with the most operating site seniority where the job exists and has the ability pursuant to Article 25.1 of the seniority clause.
If the new job or permanent job vacancy is not filled by , an employee from within that operating site, the job shall be awarded to an employee from another site with the most bargaining unit seniority and the ability pursuant to Article 25.1 of the seniority clause.
4.	In the event the successful applicant is from another site, and it is agreed that for some unforeseen circumstance is unable to perform the necessary duties of the job or is determined by management not to have the abilities to perform the necessary duties of the job or is transferred back to his/her original site, then the employee will be permitted to return to his /her original site and his/her original position before the thirty (30) days loss of site seniority expires.
5.	An employee who applies for and becomes the successful applicant for a position requiring up to a 30-day training period will only be permitted to any such posting once in any calendar year .
6.	If there are no applicants, management has the right to place junior qualified employee(s) in vacancies.
25.9 Temporary Job Posting
1. Where a temporary position of up to ninety (90) calendar days duration exists, the Corporation has the right to assign bargaining unit employees to such positions.
2. All positions exceeding ninety (90) calendar days will be posted as permanent positions. Exceptions, under certain circumstances, can be made if mutually agreed to between the Corporation and the Union.
3.	In the event an employee is required at his/her original position before the end of the ninety-day temporary assignment, then Management will have the right to deploy the employee to his/her original position if so required .
25.10 Temporary Assignments due to Absence
- 42 -
1.
2.
3.
25.11
25.12
1.
2.
ARTICLE
26.l
Management may assign bargaining unit employees to positions which are temporarily vacant due to employee absences for up to ninety (90) calendar days after which the job is subject to posting.
When such temporarily vacant positions are filled by way of job posting or assignment and the regular employee returns to work, all temporarily assigned employees shall return to their regular duties.
In the event any employee becomes incumbent in a temporary position under paragraph (1) above, and such position becomes permanent, the position will be posted again under Article 25.8 - Job Posting.
Development and Wall Crew Deployment
Management and Union agree that the present practice at the Corporation's Collieries of relocating entire wall crews and development crews will remain in effect. However, should a vacancy become available within a wall crew or development crew, then such vacancy will be posted as per Job Posting.
Light Duty Jobs
Management and Union will mutually agree to a number of current regular positions as light duty jobs to be used for the placement of employees who have permanent disabilities or limitations. The Union will be provided with a list of such light duty jobs. These positions will not be subject to job postings when they become vacant . The incumbents in these positions who are there by reason of their disabilities or limitations will only be subject to bumping if there are no other positions occupied by more junior employees which the bumping employee is capable of performing.
Management will retain the right to eliminate any or all such designated light duty positions in the event such positions become redundant as a result of tech change or automation . Management will inform the Union of any of these changes.
26	TERMS OF AGREEMENT AND PROVISION FOR RENEWAL 'f.
This Agreement supersedes all previous agreements between the signatories and is in full settlement of all demands
__served__on or subsequent to January	1995, by the
parties^ signatory	hereto. It will remain in effect until
,December 3i, 1998, and thereafter subject to notice in writing from either party to this agreement of its desire
-43 -
to revise, amend, or terminate it. Such notice may be served at any time subsequent to September 30, 1998.
Duly executed this 10th day of September, 1996 at Glace Bay, County of Cape Breton, Province of Nova Scotia.
On behalf of the Cape Breton	On behalf of the United Mine
Development corporation	Workers of America, District 26
-44 -
ADDENDUM "A" - PREMIUM TIRE PROVISIONS
Although the Contract between the parties provides that the Devco operations will be carried on under the provisions of the Canada Labour Code, it is further understood and agreed that:
(1)	The premium time provisions that existed prior to signing this Agreement will continue to apply at individual operational units.
(2)	The weekend premium provided for in the Agreement for
Saturday and Sunday work will be paid provided that the Saturday and Sunday shifts form part of the normal 5 day, 40 hour work week. Under no circumstances will the weekend premium be paid in addition to premium time provisions that existed prior to signing this Agreement.
(3)	Although Article 9.2 of the Agreement provides for the
rostering of each work week, if Management requires the services of an employee over and above his five rostered shifts, then subject to direction by Management, the employee can work additional shifts but such shifts must conunence from the recognized shifts starting times. Payment will be at the datal rate and Clauses 1 and 2 above will apply.
ADDENDUM "B"
It is understood and agreed that:
(1)	Brushers and Development Men - All men employed on face brushing or driving at the face or development will be paid the faceman development rate as follows:
January 1, 1990 $122.06 July 1, 1990 $124.46 January 1, 1991 $126.86 July 1, 1991 $129.26 January 1, 1992 $132.46 July 1, 1992 $135.66
Such men will be required to be competent to efficiently, diligently, and safely carry out any reasonable instruction from Management .
(2)	Brushers on non-cyclic walls will be paid an agreed datal rate but must work a full eight-hour shift as they are part of the face team required to ensure maximum machine utilization.
- 45
(3)	Continuous Service Employees will be governed by the Agreement in conformance with the Canada Labour Code but will not be eligible for the weekend premium. They will, however, be allowed to work the 6th day during any week and will receive payment therefore on the basis of time and one-half if so worked.
(4)	Effective August 1, 1972, any other continuous service
job established will be rostered on a 5-day 40-hour week basis.
- 46 -
APPENDIX 1 - SCHEDULE OF GROUP INSURANCE BENEFITS
All employees covered by this Agreement shall as a condition 0f employment, become members when eligible of. the Group
Insurance Plan as outlined in Appendix 1 hereof.	„
Jan 1/95 Jan 1/96 -
Dec 31/98
(‘l	(i) (a)
,1. °	
	(b)
Life Insurance Active Employees Spouse
Dependent Child
-i <	> >	■
I
$23,500 $10,000 $ 7,500
Pre-Retirement Leave Employees and Compassionate Disability Pensioners Employee	$ 5,000
Spouse	$10,000
Dependent	Child	$ 7l500
•Date of ratification - September 10, 1996
$23,500 $10,000 $ 7,500
$10,000* $10,000 $ 7,500
(c)
i
(2)
.'/I	(a)
Retired Employees
65 years & over	$ 4,°°°
No coverage for spouse or dependent children
$ 4,000
Accidental Death & Dismemberment
Active Employees	$23, 500
$23,500
(b) Pre-Retirement Leave Employees
and Compassionate Disability Pensioners	_	.
Employees	*	$ 5,000	$10,000*
•Date of Ratification - September 10, 1996 Accident Death and Dismemberment Benefits terminate at age 65

(3)
'\*v -
Weekly Indemnity
Effective January 1, 1996, employee receives $363.00 Weekly Indemnity per week when they meet the following requirements:-
The employee must be sick or injured, not working, and not in receipt of Workers' Compensation Benefits as a result of such sickness or injury.
(b)	The payment of the Weekly Indemnity shall commence on the fourth (4th) day of the sickness or iniury,; however, benefits will commence on the day of hospitalization (i.e. a registered bed patient) for day surgery provided the procedure is performed under a general anaesthetic, or is institutionalized under a Detoxification Program.
- 47
(c)	If an employee is eligible for Employment Insurance Sickness Benefits (EISB) he must claim such benefits. While the employee is in receipt of EISB, he is not entitled to Weekly Indemnity.
(d)	The maximum period for which Weekly Indemnity is payable is forty-one (41) weeks which includes all periods of Employment Insurance Sickness Benefits during the period of disability; however, if the employee is not eligible for EISB, he may receive Weekly Indemnity for a period up to forty-one (41) weeks.
'• Health
'I li- '
. 1.
'>1 '
Eligible employees and/or their dependents shall be entitled to receive:
(a)	Outpatient Benefit (i.e. diagnostic, X-ray and Lab) in any one insurance year - $25.00 maximum.
(b)	Ambulance Benefit (per benefit period) - $100.maximum
S.	Vision Care for Employees and Dependents

Effective January 1, 1994, eye examinations once every twenty-four months. Frames and lenses for prescription glasses once every twenty-four months to a maximum of $175.00.
6.	Prescription Drug Benefit
All drugs prescribed by a doctor which are not available without a prescription subject to generic substitution, generally recognized O.T.C. (over the counter) items excluded. A credit card issued to each member of the Plan with a $2.00 per prescription fee paid by each member.
The maximum per person in any insurance year for analgesics, hypnotics, sedatives, and tranquillizers shall be increased to $500. If, however, due to extenuating medical circumstances this amount is insufficient, the carrier will, on application, extend the maximum amount.
7.	Diabetic and Colostomy supplies
Eligible employees will receive diabetic and colostomy supplies under the terms of the Group Insurance Policy in effect on the date of ratification.
- 4B
8. Dental Plan

'hw
A\'.’
9.
I
Dental coverage will be provided on the same basis as the benefit coverage under the Cape Breton Development Corporation dental plan. The amounts covered by the Corporation's dental plan, after the normal deductible, will match dentists' fees in Nova Scotia Dental Fee Guide for the current year as follows :-
January 1, 1996	$900
General
The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Group Insurance Plan. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the context of the insurance contracts with Great West Life Assurance Company, Manulife Financial Group Benefits, the Citadel General Assurance, and the Cape Breton Development Corporation.
49
V ft \
APPENDIX 2 - PENSION BENEFITS
A.
The Non-Contributory Pension Plan as amended effective January 1, 1987.
Eligibility
All employees with a minimum of ten years continuous service.
Normal Retirement
Age 65 - effective the first of the month on or after	>
65th birthday.	1	( t
Early Retirement
Age 55	- effective first of the month following
application.
Pension at Retirement	J ' '■
$15.59 per month for each year of continuous service up ,/) , to a maximum of 25 years.	/	'•r'
-j	. t
Vesting	^ ; I
On"§efvice before January 1, 1987, vesting occurs after attaining both 45 years of age and 10 years in the plan.
On service after December 31, 1986, vesting occurs after p;
2 years in the Plan.	--" .
'I '1 1
Contributions
No employee contributions. 1 ■’
Dependents Benefit	<
(A) Before retirement - if an employee dies before retiring, a dependent will receive his pension benefits for twelve years .
(B) After retirement - in the case of a pensioner who dies -after drawing less than twelve years pension, the benefit will be paid to a dependent for the balance of twelve years .
Widows Benefit
(A)	Before eligibility for retirement - if a plan member dies before eligibility for retirement (age 55), his/her spouse will be paid a pension for twenty-five (25) years, which would equal the pension paid to that member calculated as if the member was age 65 at death.
(B)	After eligibility for retirement - if a plan member dies after eligibility for retirement (age 55), but before retiring, his/her spouse will be paid a pension for life, which would equal the pension paid to that member calculated as if the member was age 65 at death. If
50 -
death occurs after retiring, his/her spouse would receive 100% of his/her pension for life for that portion accrued prior to January 1, 1992, and 66 2/3 for life for that portion accrued after December 31, 1991. This is due to Revenue Canada Income Tax Act changes effective January 1, 1992.
Note:	Retirement in this Appendix means retirement from
the Non-Contributory Pension Plan.
Disability Benefit
(A) A disabled employee unable to continue working due to a disability and having any combination of age and continuous service from most recent date of hire totalling 75 or more years shall, subject to medical proof of genuine disability satisfactory to the Corporation Pension Board, be granted a disability pension to normal retirement age of four hundred dollars ($400.) per month.
(B) Per sons in receipt of compassionate disability, or approved for such benefit prior to June 18, 1977, may apply and those having a combination of age and continuous service totalling 75 or more years as of June 18, 1977, shall receive the new disability benefit from the date of their application. It is the intention of the parties that the final date for the calculation of age and years of service for those presently receiving disability benefit shall be June 18, 1977. Compassionate Disability benefits as per Section 2(b) of the Noncontributory Pension Plan.
Escalation
The pension will be escalated on the same formula as the Canada Pension Plan.
Effective July 1, 1975, Compassionate Disability Plan benefits shall be subject to annual cost-of-living increased equivalent to increases provided from time to time by way of annual adjustment under the Canada Pension Plan, and if the method by which the Canada Pension Plan adjustment is calculated shall be revised at any time, then the method for calculating the increases provided herein shall be similarly revised. As a result of annual adjustments, the benefits payable July 1, 1996, are as follows:
Disability Benefit
Without Dependents	$11,699.52
With Dependents	$14,042.40
Normal Retirement	$ 4,678.56
- 51
The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Plan. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the context of the Non-Contributory Pension Plan document.
B.	THE CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN ELIGIBILITY
Membership in the Plan shall be mandatory as a condition of employment for all employees hired by the Corporation after December 31, 1982.
52
APPENDIX 3 - PRE-RETIREME!IT LEAVE PLAN
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION - COAL DIVISION
THE PRE-RETIREMENT LEAVE PLAN AMENDMENT TO BY-LAW THREE OF THE CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BE IT RESOLVED that By-Law Three of the Cape Breton Development Corporation be and the same is hereby amended by rescinding "The Pre-Retirement Leave Plan” which is attached as an Appendix to said By-Law Three and adopting the following in substitution therefore:
I APPENDIX TO OVERALL PLAN OF CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMBHT CORPORATION ■	THE PRE-RETI^^^ LEAVE PLAN
(SECTION 18 (2) AND (3) C.B.D.C. ACT)
PREAMBLE
Section 17 of the Cape Breton Development Corporation Act requires the Corporation to prepare and submit to the Minister, for approval of the Governor in Council and Treasury Board an overall plan for the conduct of coal mining and related operations by the Corporation in an efficient manner, and for the progressive reduction of coal production by the Corporation from mines that are not economically viable.
As part of this plan and pursuant to a recommendation of the Donald Report, the Corporation is introducing a program for laying off workers before their normal retirement age of 65. Such workers will be deemed to be on pre-retirement leave and will formally be designated as on standby and available for recall and as such will be able to continue to earn entitlement under the Canada Pension Plan.
The benefits paid under this plan will be designated to supplement other forms of assistance hereinafter designated and received by the employee in order to raise his income to the levels specified below, but said other forms of assistance in respect to which benefits under this plan shall be supplemental shall not include Unemployment Insurance Benefits.
All employees reaching the designated age of pre-retirement leave are eligible for it.
The Corporation reserves the right, at its discretion -
A.	To determine the extent to which the plan is mandatory; initially this provision will apply to those 60 or over.
53 -
B.	To designate and from time to time change the other age groups to which the pre-retirement leave plan may apply.
C.	To exclude certain classes, categories of employees, or individuals from provisions of the plan either entirely or for specific periods .
D.	To make regulations concerning the operations of the plan.
E.	To terminate the plan at any time if it is no longer required to meet the problems for which the Corporation, was created to solve .
This plan will apply only to employees and the staff of the Corporation at the time the plan is first put into effect. The plan will be made available to those employees in the age group under 55 years who, in the sole opinion of Management, are disabled due to illness or injury to the extent that they are unable to carry out their duties in a safe and efficient manner, and for whom no suitable alternative employment is available within the Coal Division. The decision as to the disability of an employee within the meaning of the paragraph will rest solely with the management of the Corporation and the Corporation reserves the right of determining what medical or other evidence is required for Management to reach a decision. The employee will be obliged to cooperate fully in any manner requested by the Corporation. In addition to the general provisions of the Plan relating to Part of Full-Time Alternative Employment, an employee in the age group under 55 years accepted by Management for Pre-Retirement Leave benefit due to disability either with the Coal Division or with other employers provided such employment is made available to him and must comply with any legislation which is now or which may be effected for the benefit of disabled persons .
AMOUNT OF BENEFITS
A.	The basic benefit shall be as follows:
Without dependents (base year 1969) $2,400 per annum With dependents (base year 1969) $3,000 per annum (Dependents shall be defined according to the income tax regulations .
B.	Fifteen years employment in Nova Scotia coal mines is required to earn maximum basic benefit. The benefit will be reduced proportionally for shorter service; those over 60 whose benefits are so reduced may, if they so elect,
-54 -
continue to work until they obtain the full fifteen years entitlement, or reach retirement at 65 whichever is earlier.
C.	Benefits shall be subject to cost of living increases equivalent to increases provided from time to time by way of annual adjustment under the Canada Pension Plan, and if the method by which Canada Pension Plan adjustments are calculated shall be revised at any time, then the method of calculating the increases provided herein shall be similarly revised. As a result of the annual adjustments, the benefit payable on May l, '1995, is as follows:
Without Dependents $11,047.92 per annum With dependents $13,809.60 per annum
D.	Lump Sum Payments - In addition to other benefits, the Corporation will pay to each qualifying employee, the sum of $50.00 for each year of continuous service, up to a maximum payment of $500. and a further identical payment (unaffected by additional service) on reaching age 65. These special payments will cushion the transition from normal pay to pre-retirement leave benefits, and from the latter to the Pension Plan. The first of such payments up to a maximum of $500. shall be paid immediately after such employee shall have exhausted any Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which he may be entitled and, if not so entitled, when such employee commences the receive payments under this plan.
CANADA PENSION PLAN
Payment under this plan will be considered earnings for Canada Pension Plan purposes . Contributions will be deducted from payments to employees to which will be added an equal amount from the Corporation. Contributions will be based on the current rate and maximum applicable under the Canada Pension Plan.
COMMENCEMENT AND TERMINATION OF PAYMENTS
Payments shall be made weekly and shall commence at the end of the first week following qualification of an employee for payments under this plan, and terminate on reaching age 65, death, or on date of leaving the plan.
Upon attainment of age 65, payments under the Corporation pension plan will commence . For the purposes of calculation of the earnings for the pension, the period used will be the ten years prior to commencement of pre-retirement leave,
- 55 -
rather than the ten years prior to retirement. The period during which the employee is receiving payment on preretirement leave will be included as part of total service for pension purposes.
PART OR FULL-TIME ALTERNATIVE EMPLOYMENT
The Corporation encourages employees receiving benefits under this plan to seek other employment subject to qualifications noted below:
1.	Income received from casual employment up to $50. ■ per month will not affect benefits under this plan. However, 50% of outside income earned in excess of $50 per month will be applied to reduce benefits (e.g. man earns $100 outside; benefits reduced by $20.)
2.	An employee on pre-retirement leave man receive leave of absence for other employment without affecting his right to return to this plan or to receive continuing benefits un it; these benefits, however, would be reduced according to the formula in (1) above.
3.	An employee on this plan who takes employment in another Nova Scotia coal mine receiving some fore of assistance from either the federal or provincial government forfeits all future entitlement under this plan.
CANADA PENSION PLAN AND INSURANCE DISABILITY PAYMENTS
It is recognized that Disability provisions are contained in the Canada Pension Plan and in certain insurance policies carried by the Corporation. It is mandatory that employees entitled to benefits of this kind apply for such insurance or benefit otherwise available to them and Pre-Retirement Leave Benefit shall be considered as a supplement only to insure maximum combined benefit of $2,800 per annum without dependents or $3,600 per annum with dependents or such other amount which may from time to time be adopted in accordance with the terms of the Pre-Retirement Leave Plan. (Nova Scotia Workmen's Compensation Benefits shall not count for purposes of this paragraph) .
GROUP INSURANCE
Group Insurance must be maintained on the following basis for those who are receiving benefits. Those who have obtained full-time alternative permanent employment and are receiving supplement are not eligible for group insurance .
- 56 -
A.	Life Insurance - When an employee qualifies for payment under this plan he must maintain his existing $5,000 coverage in force by continuing to pay his share (5O%) of the premium.
B.	Medical-Surgical Insurance - The Corporation will continue to provide medical-surgical coverage for the employee and his dependents identical to that for active employees and the employee must continue to pay his share (5O%) of the premium.
NOTE:	The Pre-Retirement Leave Plan continues to exist
but- only within the context of an agreement made between the Cape Breton Development Corporation (Coal Division) and District No. 26, United Mine Workers of America. This Agreement was outlined on Wednesday, February 20, 1974, in a public release Hiring and PRL.
- 57
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
OEVELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON
1996/07/15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 1 - PARTNERING
Mr. Basil Crane
Director Employee Relations
Cape Breton Development Corporation
Box 2500, Sydney, NS BlP 6K9
Dear Mr. Crane:
Both the Union and the Corporation share common objectives relating to achieving the ongoing viability of the Cape Breton Development Corporation and in turn providing greater employment security and improved working life for employees. The parties recognize that change and involvement is required on the part of all levels of Management and Union in order to achieve these objectives.
The Union agrees to fully support and cooperate with the Corporation in its efforts to bring about and to maintain the efficient use of all resources in the operations, which include manpower systems, machinery and materials. In this respect the Union will support and cooperate with the Corporation and its Industrial Engineering Program in all electrical and mechanical maintenance and installation operations, surface operations, and the conducting of utilization studies on mining methods and machinery, haulage systems, and surface and underground service equipment.
Therefore the Corporation and the Union shall establish a team made up of senior Union and Management officials to develop and implement
A.	An overall vision for Devco
B.	A highly involved workforce
C.	Improved communications at all levels
and to ensure significant progress over the life of this Agreement in implementing the following principles and values.
The Cape Breton Development Corporation will be safe, profitable, customer-focused, and environmentally responsible. We as individuals and organizations are committed to :-
1.	Treating everyone with dignity, demonstrating respect for individual differences and perspectives and communicating openly and honestly.
2.	Recognizing the importance of and accepting the responsibility for effective job training, education on our processes and business, and individual development.
3.	Empowering employees at all levels of our organization to become highly involved and to significantly share in the decision-making process .
to*
P.O Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada RIP 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589
c P. 2500, Sydney, N-t. Canada B1 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589
^Canad 3'
2
4.	Fostering and rewarding innovation, cooperation, and commitment to change which will enhance job security through increased productivity and profitability.
The following better define the preceding principles and values:-SAFE.'.
Establishing standards, practices, procedures, and responsibilities that eliminate or prevent unsafe conditions or acts.
PROFITABLE:
Yielding an acceptable financial profit to the mutual benefit of company employees and shareholders.
CUSTOMER FOCUSED:
Recognizing and anticipating the needs of internal and external customers in order to provide a quality product and service. Internal customers are operating divisions, departments, employees at all levels and unions. External customers are those who purchase our product, the community at large, and all levels of government.
ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE:
Making decisions and policies in the building and management of our plants and mines to comply with regulations and rules in the interest of protecting the environment in which we live and work now and in the future.
INDIVIDUAL DIFFERENCES AND PEESP-ECTt-VEA*.
Recognizing that all employees, either individually or collectively, are legitimately entitled to have their own views and needs heard and considered.
JOB TRAINING:
Providing orientation and instruction on standards, practices, procedures, and responsibilities in the safe and efficient performance of work.
EDUCATION ON OUR PROCESSES AND BUSINESS:
Developing a basic knowledge and understanding of our mining methods and plant processes and an ongoing appreciation of the financial, environmental, political and global considerations that affect our business enterprise,
3
INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT:
Providing opportunities and resources in order for employees to realize their full potential within the organization.
EMPOWERMENT:
Workers having the authority and training to make decisions in work place matters involving continuing improvements in productivity, unit cost reduction and quality, providing timely and pertinent information and the resources, authority, responsibility and accountability to enable employees to manage their work environment.
HIGHLY INVOLVED:
Actively participating in planning and decision-making as a normal consequence to employment with Devco. This may lead to the role of supervisors evolving into a role which emphasizes coaching and coordination instead of directing.
SIGNIFICANTLY SHARE:
Meaningful participation in the decision making process at all levels of the organization.
INNOVATION:
Receptiveness to new and fundamentally different ideas and approaches in the way we do business.
COOPERATION:
Willingness to listen to each other and work together for mutual benefits.
CO1MMITMENTNTO G E ;	•
Desire and willingness to expect and explore better way::	of doing
business.
JOB SECURITY:
A concerted and collective effort to maintain employment opportunities and associated benefits for all employees.
4
PRODUCTIVITY:
To produce the highest quality and quantity of product or services at the lowest attainable unit cost on a sustained basis,
Yours truly,
Stephen J. Drake
President, ^UMWA, District No. 26
We concur:
Basil Crane, Director Employee Relations
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT
OU CAP-BRETON
1996/07/15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 2
Mr. Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America Box 129 Glace Bay, NS BlA 5V2
Dear Mr. Drake:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date to the effect that the Corporation gives its assurance that no employee of the Bargaining Unit, having once commenced his/her regularly rostered shift, will be sent home due to a cessation of regular operations elsewhere within the Corporation provided sufficient work is available to permit the employee to continue with his/her normal duties and responsibilities for the remainder of the shift and it is within the control of management of the respective unit to allow him to do so.
Yours very truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations

P.O Box 2500, Sydney, N S., Canada B1 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	r i^|
C.P. 2500, Sydney, N-E, Canada BlP 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Tofex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842 2589	^tUlclCia
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
S OCIETE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON
1996/08/22
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3
Mr. Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America P.O. Box 129, Glace Bay, N.S.
BlA 5V2
Dear Mr. Drake:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto to the effect that overtime shifts shall be equitably shared over a reasonable period of time among qualified employees at their work site.
It is also understood and agreed that management and union at the various sites will develop an overtime policy to ensure that, where reasonable and practical to do so, overtime is equitably shared among qualified employees at their respective sites. It is further understood and agreed that any changes to the overtime policy must be mutually agreed to by the parties.
It will be the responsibility of management to provide the union with overtime listings on a weekly basis, Management shall not be held responsible for notifying employees that overtime shifts/hours are available if the employee(s) has not provided the Corporation with his/her correct telephone number or cannot be reached at that number.
Until the new procedures are established under this letter, the current practices as established under Letter of Understanding No. 3 in the previous Collective Agreement will remain in effect.
If you agree with the foregoing, please indicate in the space provided.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I concur
United Mine Workers of America
PO. Box 2500, Sydnoy, N S Canada 81P6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Tclox 019-351-32 Fax (902)'842-2589	JJJ«
C.P. 2500, Sydney, N-E, Canada B1P6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2569 V-/cU13.Clcl
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
SOCiEtE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT
OU CAP-BRETON
1996/07/12
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 4
Mr. Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America Box 129, Glace Bay, NS BlA 5V2
Dear Mr. Drake:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date, between the parties signatory hereto, to the effect that the parties recognize and accept that, in their common interest, positive steps must be jointly taken to reduce the burden of Workmen's Compensation costs to the industry, and to that end agree to form a committee comprised of representatives from the senior level of the Corporation and Union which shall meet on a regular basis to deal with the situation.
If you agree, please indicate in the space below.
Yours very truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N S., Canada B1 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	__	1 j»l
C.P. 2500, Sydney, N-E. Canada B1P 6K9 Tol (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842 2589 Vv^LFldGci
CAPE BRETON	SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPMENT	DEVELOPPEMENT
CORPORATION	DU CAP-BRETON
1996/07/15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 5
Mr. Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America Box 129, Glacc Bay, NS BlA 5V2
RE:	CORPORATION POLICY RESPECTING EMPLOYMENT OF DISABLED EMPLOYEES
Dear Mr. Drake:
This letter confirms that the Corporationwill continue, within reasonable bounds and consistent with its established practice and its obligations pursuant to the Employment Equity Act, Bill C-62 (proclaimed August 13, 1986), to re-employ and/or transfer disabled employees to job vacancies within the bargaining unit for which they are qualified.
It is further understood and agreed that the parties hereto shall jointly undertake a serious review of the matter of jobs stations and the feasibility of designing same within the terms of the Collective Agreement.
If you agree with the foregoing, please indicate in the space provided below. Yours very truly,
United Mine Workers of America
PO Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada B1 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589
C P 2500, Sydney, N-i, Canada B 1 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	^^UldCd.
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON
1996/07/15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 6
Mr. Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America Box 129, Glace Bay, NS BlA 5V2
Dear Mr. Drake:
RE:	CORPORATION PENSION BOARD MEETINGS
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above mentioned matter.
It is understood and agreed that the two Sub-District Board Members will be permitted to represent the best interests of the employees when the Pension Board is dealingwith applications for Compassionate Disability Benefits from employees represented by District No. 26, United Mine Workers of America.
It is understood and agreed that employees who are denied the Compassionate Disability Pension will be informed of the reasons for denial in writing and will have the right to appeal such denial under the appeal process.
If you agree with the foregoing, please indicate in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I concur
United Mine Workers of America
P.O Box 2500. S'
c.p. 2500, Syd
>. Sydney, Sydney,
N.S., Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589
N ■ E, Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019 351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589
C,.anad!i’
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON
1996/07/15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 7
Mr. Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America Box 129, Glace Bay, NS BlA 5V2
Dear Mr. Drake:
RE:	CORPORATION HIRING POLICY
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the United Mine Workers of America, District #26, and the Corporation that the Corporation agrees to continue, to the extent that such practice does not conflict with the Corporation's hiring policy, its statutory obligations including those under the Employment Equity Act, Bill C-62 (proclaimed on August 13, 1986) and its obligations under the current Collective Agreement, to give a preference in hiring to applicants for employment whose parent or guardian is either currently employed, pensioned or, if deceased, was at the time of death an employee or in receipt of an income from the Corporation or its immediate predecessor Company.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I concur
Stepheft J. D/^Ke, President: United Mine workers of America
P.O Box 2500, Sycliioy, N S., Canada Bl P 6K9 T"I (902) 564-2848 Telex 019351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589
c P. 2500, Sydney, N-1?, Canada B1P6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842 2589
Canada
^ CAPE BRETON	SOCIETE DE
» DEVELOPMENT	dEvELOPPEMENT
^CORPORATION	DU CAP-BRETON
1996/07/15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 8
Mr. Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America Box 129, Glace Bay, NS BIA 5V2
Dear Mr. Drake:
RE:	EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIANS AND FIRST AID
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Corporation agrees that at least one qualified Emergency Medical Technician will be on duty during every shift when twenty (20) or more United Mine Workers of America employees are working underground in either of the Corporation's two operating collieries; provided, however, that in the event no such technician is available during any such shift for reasons beyond the Corporation's control, the Corporation will ensure that at least one person holding a valid First Aid Certificate is on duty instead;and further provided that no existing practices or provisions in respect of Emergency Medical Technicians will be diminished.
During non-production shifts, Emergency Medical Technicians may be required to perform other tasks provided such other work does not interfere with the prompt administration of medical treatment.
Your signature in the space provided will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding.
Yours very truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I concur
United Mine Workers of America
PO. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada 81 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589
C.P. 2500, Sydney. N-E, Canada B1 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589 Vycli ldtjld.
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
dEvELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON
1996/07/15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 9
Mr. Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America Box 129, Glace Bay, NS BlA SV2
Dear Mr. Drake:
RE:	EXTENDED HOURS OF WORK
This will confirm the understanding reached today between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Union and the Corporation agree that, commencing prior to December 31, 1985, they will meet to discuss changes to shift schedules of United Mine Workers of America employees in such manner as will provide for extended hours of work conducive to more efficient safe coal production; it being understood and agreed that any such changes may be effected only in strict compliance with Canada Labour Code provisions and regulations governing hours of work. This shall require the concurrence of the District Executive and a ratification by a majority of tsmembers at the operating sites where such extended hours are proposed.	'
It is further understood and agreed that by the expression "extended hours of work" the parties mean, for example four 12-hour shifts followed by four days off.
It is further understood all other eligibility requirements under such plans are complied with by the employees .
Yours very truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I concur:
P.O Box 2500. Sydney, N S., Canada B1 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564- 2848 Telex 019- 35132 Fax (902) 842-2589
CP 2500, Sydney. N-E, Canada BlP 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019 351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	V^nd-Cld.
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON
1996/07/15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 10
Mr. Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America Box 129, Glace Bay, NS BlA 5V2
Dear Mr. Drake:
RE:	DONKIN-MORIEN
Whenever coal is extracted from the Donkin-Morien Development Project for the purpose of sampling to determine the feasibility of going ahead with the development of a coal producing colliery, such work shall be done by employees who are members of the United Mine Workers of America, District No. 26.
It is recognised that if and when Donkin-Morien becomes a coal producing colliery the Union shall have jurisdiction.
Yours very truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I concur:
PO. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S.. Canada 81 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Tulox 019-35132 Fax (902) 842-2589
c P. 2500, Sydney, N-E, Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589
Canada
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
dEvELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON
1996/07/15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 11
Mr. Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America Box 129, Glace Bay, NS BlA 5V2
Dear Mr. Drake:
RE:	OVERTIME MEALS
This letter will confirm the discussion held at our meeting on August 20, 1996. You indicated clarification was required as to what circumstances entitle employees to an overtime meal. Following is the Corporation's understanding and commitment:
Employees who are scheduled to work overtime shift (s) on rostered days off must make provision for their own lunch .
Employees who are offered and agree to work two (2) hours or more into the next shift immediately following their regular shift quitting time will be provided an overtime meal.
Employees who work twelve (12) hour shifts, either on a planned or unplanned overtime basis, will be provided an overtime meal.
Employees who stay between shifts and work two (2) hours overtime (crumbs) are not entitled to an overtime meal.
It is understood, however, that in the event the above situation occurs, and the employees are delayed, in excess of one hour, getting out of the mine due to transportation problems, then an overtime meal will be ! provided.
/
In the event it is	impractical to provide a meal to	an employee ( s) so
(	!,'	qualified, (such as	a restaurant closing hours during	back shift, etc.)
1	then the employee ( s)	have the option of being provided	a meal chit to the
value of seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) or the	money included in
his/her pay.
In summary, it will be the policy of the Corporation to provide overtime meals to employees who qualify under the above-noted circumstances. It is not the intent to pay the money in lieu thereof.
PO. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S.. Canada Bl P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2648 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	1 |*l
C P. 2500, Sydney, N-E, Canada B1 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589 VwU l«lQd
- 2
Additionally, it should be pointed out that overtime meals will not be provided to continuous service employees working 10 or 12 hour shifts or to employees working on "call-out".
If you concur with these provisions, kindly indicate by signing below.
Yours very truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I concur
Stephen jC^Drake, Pres
President United Mine Workers of America
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
dEvELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON
1996/07/15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 12
District 26, United Mine Workers of America
and
Cape Breton Development Corporation
RE:	SECTIONMEN:
As a result of the 1989 merger of bargaining units, Sectionmen, who were covered by a separate Collective Agreement, subsequently agreed on a Memorandum of Agreement signed January 13, 1988, copy attached.
It is agreed that when the parties finalize a new Collective Agreement during the current collective bargaining session, the following items from the Memorandum of Agreement, January 13, 1988, will form part of the new Collective Agreement and apply specifically to Sectionmen only.
Rates of Pay
Vacation Entitlement
Seniority unless otherwise revised by mutual agreement between the parties
Floating Holiday
I concur

Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I concur

Jtepnen Drake/ President
United Mine Workers of America
P.o. Box 2500, Sydney, N S., Canada B1 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589
C.P. 2500, Sydney, N-i, Canada B1 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842 2589	^-tillclClct
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
dEVELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON
1996/08/29
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 13
Mr. Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America P.O. Box 129, Glace Bay, NS BlA 5V2
Dear Mr. Drake:
RE:	EARLY RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PLAN & SEVERANCE PAY
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Corporation agrees that if further workforce reductions are required during the term of this Agreement, it will provide an Early Retirement Incentive Program (ERIP). This program shall be subject to all criteria negotiated by the Joint Planning Committee. The goal of this program is to achieve the required workforce reductions on a voluntary basis and thereby reduce the need for displacement of other employees.
EARLY RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PLAN Eligibility Factors:
It is understood and agreed that the eligibility for the Early Retirement Incentive Plan for the two hundred thirty (230) available pensions as agreed to by the Joint Planning Committee will be as follows:-
All employees of the Corporation represented by the United Mine Workers of America, District 26, shall be considered on the basis of a points factor system. An employees total points will be determined by adding their current age to the number of years of continuous service with the Corporation. The Corporation will determine the eligible point level based on the number of surplus employees, but in no circumstances will the point level be set at less than seventy-five (75).
Eligibility - 50 years of age with 75 points as of December 31st in year ERIP granted.
ERIP's to be awarded on basis of longest service calculated as of December 31st of year ERIP granted.
Timing - to be placed on program to suit Corporation needs.
PO. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589
C P. 2500, Sydney, N-E, Canada BlP 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589
Canada
2
The calculation of continuous service, for those employees referred to above who were formerly employed at the Broughton Mine, will include their years of service with that employer for the purpose of eligibility.
Benefit Level and Other Requirements:
The current maximum allowable benefit under the ERIP is $1,851.04 per month and the benefit level will be indexed annually on May 1 using the formulae applicable to other Corporation Pension Plans subject to a 2% ceiling. Before receiving any benefit under the ERIP, all approved applicants will be required to apply for and exhaust all Employment Insurance Benefits to which they are entitled. While in receipt of EI benefits, applicants will receive a stand-by pay in the amount of $68.00 per week. On exhaustion of EI benefits, ERIP members will be required to apply for disability benefits under the Canada Pension Plan and to complete the CPP f orm "Authorization to Communicate Information". Employees entitled to receive CPP disability benefits shall receive a maximum monthly allowance of $1,126.12 (al so indexed annually). Those persons who do not receive disability benefits under CPP will receive the maximum benefit of $1,851.04 per month. Where circumstances permit and approved applicants exercise their option to receive a reduced retirement benefit under the Canada Pension Plan, they will not have their ERIP payments reduced by any amount related to these pensions. All approved applicants will have their benefit from the Corporation reduced on a dollar for dollar basis for any Automatic Assumption payment they are receiving in excess of $250. per month. Persons on the ERI program will be eligible to purchase coal at the rate specified in the Collective Agreement for PreRetirement Leave Pensioners.
Group Plan Benefits:
All group health benefits (excluding weekly indemnity benefits) will remain in force until age sixty-five (65). Life insurance coverage will be fixed at $22,500 until age sixty-five (65).
Recall Riahts-and Severance Pav
In the event that the required reduction of surplus employees is not achieved by .	the ERIP, employees will be subject to	layoff or displacement will be given
'j j	recall rights to their original work site	for a period equivalent to their length
y', of service or thirty-six (36) months, whichever is the lesser. When the requirements of operations dictate, employees with recall rights to the original site will be recalled in the reverse order of layoff or displacement subject to the ability, training, and skill of the individuals to perform the normal requirements of the job.
! The Corporation agrees to pay a severance allowance to an employee who is laid , J off for the lack of work and is no longer entitled to recall rights. The ,	Corporation further agrees to pay a severance allowance to an employee who is
'	laid off for lack of work and elects to	forfeit recall rights and permanently
terminate employment .
The severance allowance payable in each case will be in accordance with the framework agreed to by the Joint Planning Committee signed April 10, 1996.
3
GENERAL
Inasmuch as the ERIP and the severance plan would be intended to minimize the impact of the termination of employment of employees, the benefits under these programs shall be deemed the maximum which might otherwise be available under provisions of any adjustment program pursuant to Sections 214 to 226 of the Canada Labour Code, which sections, for the purpose of early retirement incentives and severance allowances provisions, shall not apply in respect of employees in the bargaining unit.
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I
concur
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON
1996/07/08
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 14
Mr. Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America P.O. Box 129, Glace Bay, NS BlA 5V2
Dear Mr. Drake:
RE:	WEEKLY INDEMNITY PAYMENTS
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
It is understood and agreed that due to the current health care situation the present payment of Weekly Indemnity shall continue to be paid from the fourth day of sickness or injury as long as the employee has seen his/her physician not later than the sixth day of sickness or injury and submits the appropriate medical documentation.
It must also be understood that should the health care situation change for the better, then the Corporation and the Union will meet and mutually agree to adjust the date of payment. In all other respects the Weekly Indemnity Plan will remain the same .
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
United Mine Workers of America
PO Box 2500, Sydney. N .S . Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564 2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	ini
C P. 2500. Sydney, N-E, Canada B 1 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Tolcx 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589 V„*ln3.Qcl
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON
1996/07/08
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 15
Mr. Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
Cape Breton Development Corporation
Box 2500, Sydney, NS BlP 6K9
Dear Mr. Crane:
RE:	Payroll Deductions upon the Death of Employees
This letter confirms the understanding between the United Mine Workers of America, District #26, and the Cape Breton Development Corporation in respect of the above-mentioned matter.
Members of the Union have signed cards, the originals of which have been supplied to the Corporation. Each card states as follows -
I...... authorize the Cape Breton Development Corporation to deduct
the sum of ten ($10.00) dollars from my weekly earnings and forward same to the Local notifying the Corporation of a deceased member, to be donated to the beneficiary of deceased employees of the United Mine Workers of America who die while in the active employ of the Corporation. This deduction is to be made on each occasion when notified by the Local Union that an active designated employee has become deceased.
In the event of the death of any member of the Union who is an active employee of the Corporation, the relevant Union Local Executive shall give the Corporation's Director of Employee Relations written notice requiring the deduction of ten ($10.00) dollars only from the next amount of wages payable by the Corporation to any member of the Union who has signed such a card. By members' signatures, and upon receipt of the above-mentioned notice, the Corporation shall be authorized to comply and shall comply with any such notice in respect of all such members.
For the purposes of this letter, the term "active employee" shall mean any member of District No. 26 who is an employee of the Corporation and who is not in receipt of a pension or early retirement incentive from the Corporation.
P.O Box 2500. Sydney, N.S., Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telox 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589
C.P. 2500, Sydney, N-'E, Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	1dQd
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
OEVELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON
1995/10/03
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 16
Mr. Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America P.O. Box 129, Glace Bay NS BIA 5V2
Dear Mr. Drake:
Re:	United Mine Workers of America Class Codes Not Used in 1995
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Corporation and the Union agree to delete the attached list of classification codes in the current collective agreement. It is further understood and agreed that should a circumstance arise that would merit putting a classification code back into the agreement, then such a class code will be put back into use and will be inserted in the next collective agreement.
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding .
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I
concur
United Mine Workers of America
PO. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada B1 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (90:'.) 842-2589	ii.|
C.P 2500, Sydney, N-£, Canada 81 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589
list QJ-;.. umw ofa class (®->j:s IQJiJLPUlJ'ED
CLASS	i	,DATAL RATE
CODE	JOB TITLE IN CONTRACT J U L Y ,1 199’	
Il2*i	MAN/PlPE SLOPE	i 3130.49
ino'	/MOTOR 1MN SURFACE . _	i $130.49 '
1133	:c o MPRE SSOR	, $ 1317.5 3
1 I '.'i 7	‘BASK MECHANIC J ST CLASS	S 130.49
II 72	TIMBER YARD FORF^F.	$126.18
1 1 7 7	ROADMAKER SURFACE	: $ 1 27.53
11 7 g , ROADMAKER HELPER SURFACE		St26.l8
J 208	AD CARFENTER LINGAN. . i. $m.8 2	
2 116	HAULAGE ENGINEMEN	S 129.55
2117	2!_A ULAGE ENGINEA!_E! _. _	128.06
2)41	|ROAD I DEEP BOSS	i S . 1:>.1. .06
2I4 5	■CON VEYOR OPERATOR TRAN SH..	: 513103
| 2172	'• BOOSTER FAN ENG.	I $126.73 j
2191	STEELBooMERS	1 S 128.06
2 193 UNDERGROUND WELDERS		| $132.36 >
219S	foam e rs	— $134.47
2221	CHARGEHANDS MEC^WIC	j $129.55
2222	DIESEL MECHANIC (WRITTEN REPORT)	! $ 1 3 I .04
222S	P1PEMEN HEAD	{ $128.06
2235	ELECTRllCJAN WRITTEN REPORT	$131.03
2237	ELE.cTRlCiANHHE.lPER	$126.73
2238	ELECTRICIAN UNDERGROUND	$128.06
3113	MON. PK. COAL BTM	$134.47
3 I 4 5	SET UP WALKING CH^OCKS	$131.03
3149	LOADING HO OP WAIJ.	S131.03
3181	MATERIAL MEN TRANS. BONUS	$126.73
334 l	STEEL FABRICATOR 2ND CLASS	$130.70
334-1	LEAD WELDER	_S 1.32.. 78 ,
33!(LEA	D'BROWN HOIST	$132.71
33 70	LEADHAND WOOD	$134.21
3400	LEADHAND IRON WO^RKER	$1:0.25
3401	MINE CAR REPAI^RMAN	$ 1 3 0.4 1
3402	LEADHAND CAR SHOP	$132.77
34 03	LEADHAND TUB SHO	$ 132.40
3509	LEAD PLUMBER / PAINTER	$131.82
3S 1 1	HElPER 1ST 3 Y^EARS	$127.02
3518	APPRENTICE SPECIAL TO 24 MONTHS	$126.18
3319	AFTER 42 MONTHS	$130.31
3520	AFTER 36 MONllS	$129.22
3521	AFTER 30 MONTOS	$128.11
3522	AFTER 24 MONTHS	$)26.96
35 23	AFTER l 8 MONTOS	$ 1 2’.82
3 5 24	Af]!.R 12 MONTHS	$124.69
3325	Amt MONTHS	$123.58
3526	APPRENTICE JST 6 MONT S	$ 122.44
36 10	LEAD HAND M^ECHANIC	$ 132.42
3 6 2 I	WEL DF-R I ST (CLASS ,	$ 1 31. 1 2 _ '
3 6 2 2	WELDE R 2 N D CLASS	$ 129.44
5481	ELECTRICIAN 1ST CCLASS .	$ 1 32.29	
5482	ELECTRICIAN 2ND CLASS	S I 31 .3 4
548 4	ELECTRICIAN HELPER 2ND CCLASS	$127.02
5 5 1 0	LIFT TRUCK OPERATOR	S 1 2 6.62
$ 6 2 2	CA RPENTER 2ND CCLASS	$129.90
S 6 2 5	IRON WORKERS 2ND CCLASS	$1 30.38
5 62 7	WELDERS 2ND C LAI SS	$ 1 29.44
5860	DATAI. BASIC	$ 12 6.18
’861	SKURITY 2 1ST TO 6 0TH SHIFT	$126.75
	_.s__!99		LABOUR		$126.18 -U-
2
In the case of any deceased active employee, all proceeds from all such deductions shall be remitted directly by the Corporation:-
to the person who may have last been designated by the deceased employee to receive his life insurance under the Corporation's Group Insurance Plan;or
(in the event there shall have been no such designation, or that the person designated shall have pre-deceased the employee) to the employee's widow, where she shall not have been the person so designated; or
(in the event there shall have been no such designation and no widow) to the employee's surviving children in equal shares; or
(in the event there shall have been no designation, widow or surviving children) to the deceased employee's estate.
The provisions set forth above shall apply to every deduction of ten ($10.00) dollars authorized for death benefits by notice of the Union. In particular, but without limitation, every canvassing referred to in Article 21 of the Collective Agreement between United Mine Workers of America, District No. 26 and the Cape Breton Development Corporation shall be conducted in the manner contemplated herein and subject to the provisions of this letter.
Yours truly,
Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America
We Concur:	Cape Breton Development Corporation
Per:
Basil Crane, Director, Employee Relations
CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT
DU CAP-BRETON
1996/08/29
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 17
Mr. Stephen J. Drake, President United Mine Workers of America P.O. Box 129, Glace Bay NS BlA 5V2
Dear Mr. Drake:
Re:	Adjustment of Wages
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Corporation and the Union agree to delete Article 39, Production Incentive Plan contained in the current collective agreement. The Corporation and the Union also agree that as a result of deleting Article 39, monies associated with the Production Incentive Plan will be used to adjust the wages in the following manner, effective January 1, 1997 -
It is further agreed that in order to finalize this restructuring of bonus monies, the Corporation agrees to pay Production Incentive Adjustment of five hundred and fifty ($550.00) dollars to each United Mine Workers of America employee on the books as of date of ratification.
1.	The hourly rate for the positions that normally receive wall face production bonus or development section bonus will increase from the current rate by $3.16 per hour.
2.	Underground tradesmen classification rates will increase from the current rate by $1.51 per hour.
3 . All surface tradesmen classification rates will increase from the current rate by $0.85 per hour.
4.	All other underground classification rates will increase from the current rate by $1.31 per hour .
5.	All other surface classification rates will increase from the current rate by $0.65 per hour.

P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S., Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842 2589 f^r	lrn
C.P. 2500, Sydney, N-E, Canada B1P6K9 Tel (902) 564 2848 Tclex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842 2589 V./cUlclQ<l
2
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Employee Relations
I concur
Muds*) & Jkdd
S^eph^n J. D^ke, President
United Mine Workers of America
Cape Breton Development Corporation (Coal Division)
United Mine Workers of America, District No. 26 (CLC)
(1,300 mine employees)
A 48-month renewal agreement effective from January 1,1995, to December 31,1998, settled in September 1996 at the bargaining stage. Duration of negotia tions - 25 months.
Wages:
Effective	Jan. 1/95	Jan. 1/97
General Adjustments	0.0%	*$0.65 -$3.16
Daily Rates		
Surface Labourer	$126.18	$131.36
Welder 1 st Class (above ground)	$131.82	$138.62
Welder	$132.36	$144.44
(underground)
*The parties agreed to delete the Production Incentive Plan contained in the previous collective agreement. Effective January 1 , 1997, monies associated with the plan will be incorporated into the wage schedule for all categories. The resulting adjustments will range from $0.65 to $3.16.
Lump-Sum Payment (new):
$550 to finalize the elimination of the Production Incentive Plan.
Hours of Work:
40 per week (unchanged).
Paid Holidays:
10 statutory, plus 1 floating holiday (unchanged).
Paid Vacation:
Effective January 1, 1997, 15 (20) days earned after 1 year and 20 days after 10(1) years. 21 days after 12 years, 22 days after 14 years, 23 days after 16 years, 24 days after 1 8 years, and 25 days after 20 years (new). Vacation entitlement earned prior to new agreement will remain unchanged.
Health and Welfare:
Sick Leave Plan (new addition) - Credits will accumulate at the rate of 4 hours per month and 6 days per year, provided all scheduled shifts in each particular month have been worked, and limited to a maximum of 12 days.
Pension Plan:
Early Retirement Incentive Plan (ERIP)- Maximum allowable benefit, indexed annually, of $1,851.04 ($1,811 .12) per month. Applicable to those employees aged 50 (56) years or older with 75 points, i.e. age plus years of service, as of December 31 in year ERIP is granted. Employer to determine eligible point level based on the number of surplus employees.
Supplementary Unemployment Benefit Plan:
Annually indexed benefit of $67.44 ($65.92) per week.
Gainsharing Plan (new):
Employer to initiate a gainsharing plan, commencing with the fiscal year ending March 31,1997, designed to pay bonuses based on the actual financial operating results of the Corporation. Bonus payments will be distributed by June 30, 1997. The Employer will meet with the union prior to implementation to discuss the structure and payment formula of the plan.
0018205 E 1 Cape Breton Development Corporation (Coal Division)
0018205 E 2 United Mine Workers of America 0018205 E 3 mine employees •
0018205 F 1 Societe de developpement du Cap-Breton (div. des mines de charbon) 0018205 F 2 Mineurs unis d'Amerique 0018205 F 3 mineurs