COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT
between
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
CANADIAN UNION
OF
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES - 2046
Forthe period JANUARY 1,1989 to DECEMBER31, 1992
and
<M—J
*
SOURCE
E?F			0 L	0 l
TERM	_		,12.	3 I
No. OF EMPLOYEES		ats		
:
i
INDEX
Article 1 - Preamble......................................4
Article 2 - Recognition...................................5
Article 3- Management.....................................5
Article 4- Discrimination ................................5
Article 5 - Orientation...................................6
Article 6 - Security of Employment........................6
Article 7 - Union Security................................7
Article 8 - Regularity of Work............................8
Article 9 - Union Activities..............................9
Article 10- Labour/Management Bargaining Relations......9
Article 11 - Strikes. Lockouts, etc.....................10
Article 12 - Alcoholism and Drug Addiction .............11
Article 13- Discharge and Discipline.................... 11
Article 14- No Grievance When Mine is Idle in Violation
of Agreement ....11
Article 15- Grievance Procedure .........................12
Article 16- Leave of Absence ............................15
Article 17 - Seniority...................................16
Article 18- Hours ofWork, Overtime.......................19
Article 19 - Premiums....................................22
Article 20 - Assignments ................................23
Article 21 - Mileage Expenses............................24
Article 22 - Jury, Crown and Witness Duty................24
Article 23- Bereavement Leave ...i......................25
Article 24 - Maternity Leave.............................26
Article 25 - Vacations...................................26
Article 26 - Statutory Holidays..........................29
Article 27 - Sick Leave..................................31
Article 28 - Death Benefits for Pensioners...............35
Article 29- Compassionate Lump Sum	Payment..............36
Article 30- RetirementAllowance..........................36
Article 31 - Safety Apparel..............................37
Article 32- 5% Contributory Pension Plan.................39
Article 33 - Contracting Out.............................41
Article 34 -Technological Change ........................42
Article 35 - Supplementary Unemployment Benefits.........43
Article 36 - Snowstorms..............................
Article 37 - Miscellaneous...........................
Article 38 - Nurses .................................
Article 39 - Despatches Only ........................
Article 40 - Job Postings............................
Article 41 - Salaries................................
Article 42 -Obligations .............................
Article 43 - Negotiations During term of Agreement.....
Article 44 - Duration................................
Appendix A' .........................................
Appendix 'B' ........................................
Appendix "C" ........................................
Letter of Understanding 1 - Banking of Overtime......
Letterof Understanding 2 - Incentive Plan Coverage ..
Letterof Understanding 3 - New System of Traffic Control
-	Devco Railway ...........
Letterof Understanding 4 - Re: Article 6.02..........
Letterof Understanding 5 - Consecutive Days OF in Each
-	Standard Work Week.......
44
45
47
48
48
49 49
49
50
51
52
55
56
58
59
60
62
Letterof Understanding 6 - Security Guards .........63
Letter of Understanding 7
-Accidents and Accident Investigation .... 64 Letterof Understandings - Early Retirement Incentive Plan.. 65
3
PREAMBLE
ARTICLE 1
Whereas the Cape Breton Development Corporation was set up because of the long and severe decline of the coal industry in Cape Breton, and
VWereas Devco and the Union agree that this decline can now be stopped, but to achieve this will require greatly increased productivity and a basis for reducing the operating losses paid by the Treasury of Canada and thereby justifying the investment of Federal funds in the maintenance, improvement, and development of mines, and
VWereas Devco and the Union share the objective of improving wages and working conditions to the maximum extend compatiblewith security of employment, and
VWereas Devco and the Union recognize that such security cf employment depends on good working practices to utilize machinery efficiently, enhance safety and yield high productivity,
Therefore, Devco and the Union make the following agreement:
Whereas it is the desire of both parties of this Agreement:
To maintain and improve the harmonious relationship between the Corporation Management and the Union;
To provide for the prompt and equitable adjustment of all differences which may arise between the parties to or persons bound by the Agreement concerning its meaning or violation;
4
To recognize that safety and the health of all employees is a primary consideration of the parties;
To promote health care and safety of the employees to ensure a healthy and consequently productivework force.
ARTICLE 2	RECOGNITION
2.01	The Corporation recognizes the Canadian Union of Public Employees, Local 2046, as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for the bargaining unit employees as defined in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certificate.
2.02	The Union recognizesthat Local 2046 is comprised of supervisors, former nurses, security guards, and railway despatches, and, it shall in no way restrict any employee in the discharge of his/her customary duties and responsibilities as a bargaining unit employee.
2.03	No employee covered by this Agreement shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written agreement which may conflict with the terms of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 3	MANAGEMENT
3.01	The Management of the employer's business and the employment, direction, and supervision of employees, including transfer, promotions, demotions, layoffs, supervision and discipline (including discharge) for proper cause is vested in the management, provided the foregoing shall not be exercised by the employer in a manner contrary to the terms of this Agreement. The Union shall have the right of appeal through the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 4	DISCRIMINATION
4.01	The Corporation and the Union agree that there shall be no discrimination exercised or practised with respect to an em-
5
ployee by reason of race, colour, religion, age, sex, ethnicity, marital status, family status, disability, conviction for which a pardon has been granted, or membership in a trade union.
ARTICLE 5	ORIENTATION
5.01	The site head, or designate, will ensure the new employee is provided a review of the employee benefit programs, the duties and responsibilities of the position to which appointment, and the obligations to the Corporation and the Union.
5.02	Upon first commencing employmentwithin the bargaining unit, the employee’s site head, or designate, will introduce the employee to the Department's Union representative.
5.03	The designated Union representative will be provided an opportunity to explain the Union organization and membership responsibilities to the employee during the first month of employment within the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 6	SECURITY OF EMPLOYMENT
6.01	Any person who was on the books of Devco on April 1, 1968, will not be removedfrom the books unless offered reasonable alternative employment, subject to the following conditions.
6.02	The above undertaking in noway limitsthe right of Devco, because of its responsibility for the safe and efficient conduct of operations, to suspend or dismiss any man for cause.
6.03	The above undertaking in no way qualifies the responsibility of Devco temporarily to reduce or suspend a particular operation or part of an operation if such action is necessaryto the satisfactory conduct and development of the mining operation as a whole within the funds provided by the Parliament of Canada.
6.04	The above undertaking in no way qualifies the right of
6
Devco to lay off men if abnormal circumstances so require, but Devco will make every reasonable effort to ensure that a full forty hours' work each week is available to all men who comply with the rules of regular attendance described in Article 8 .
ARTICLE 7
UNION SECURITY
7.01	Every employee who is a member of the Union at the effective date of this agreement, or who becomes a member of the Union during the life of the Agreement, shall continue to be a member in good standing of the Union during the life of the Agreement, provided he continues to be eligible as a member. During the life of the Agreement such employee shall have deducted from his wages all dues, levies, fines and assessments
/authorized by and in accordance with the Constitution of the Union and/or By-Laws.
?1
Y.02 An employee not a member of the Union, but who occupies a position with the bargaining unit, shall after ninety (90) working days during the term of the Collective Agreement become a member of the bargaining unit or cease to perform work that is under the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit.
7.03	Every employee who is not a member of the Union but who occupies a position within the bargaining unit shall have deducted from his wages, a sum equivalent to Union dues in such amount as may from time to time be assessed to their members according to the Union Constitution and/or By-Laws.
7.04	All new employees occupying positions within the bargaining upit shall have deducted from their wages, within 30 days of employment, a sum equivalent to Union dues in such amount as may from time to time be assessed to their members according to its Constitution and/or By-Laws.
, / 7.05 At the end of each week, the Corporation shall remit by y cheque the total of the weekly deductions made, together with a ' \ relevant statement. In cases where a deduction is made that
7
duplicates a payment that an employee already has made to the Union, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the provision of the Union Constitution and By-Laws, refunds will be made to the employee by the Union.
7.06	DUES RECEIPTS: At the same time that Income Tax (T-4) slips are made available, the Employer shall show the amount of Union dues paid by each Union member in the previous year.
7.07	The Union shall indemnify the Corporation and hold it harmless against any and all liability which may arise by reason of the checkoff by the Corporation of Union dues, levies, fines, and assessments from employees' wages in accordance with this agreement.
ARTICLE8	REGULARITY OFWORK
8.01	Devco and the Union agree that conscientious and regular work is essential to the agreed objectives of maintaining employment at good wages, and both parties therefore recognize that absenteeism is a serious obstacle to their objectives.
8.02	Accordingly, Devco and the Union agree that it is a condition of continued employment that no man will be absent from a scheduled shift, other than for reasons (such as sickness, compensable accident or welfare) already known to Devco, unless he gives the supervisor/department manager’s office notice of his intended absence, along with a reason satisfactory to management, at least one hour before the starting time of the scheduled shift.
8.03	A man who has been absent, for any reason other than one where the precise period of the absence was arranged in advance, must ensure that the supervisor/department manager’s office is informed of his intended return to work at least two hours before the starting time of the shift, and if such notice has not been given he will be sent home.
8
8.04	A man who fails to give notioe of absenoe, or who fails to establish satisfactory reason for absence, will be Interviewed and given a confirming letter, and on repetition will have a further interview followed by a confirming letter and any man who is absent on three occasions without notice or without satisfactory reason will be Interviewed followed by a confirming letter and a suspension, with pay, for one full shift and will be liable for dismissal.
ARTICLE 9	UNION ACTIVITIES
9.01	The Union and the employees covered by this Agreement shall not conduct activities during working hours except as in this Agreement, expressly provided, norshall Union meetings of any kind be heldat any time on the premisesof the Corporation without priorwritten consent ofthe Corporation.
9.02	The Unionwill provide the Corporation with the names of the Departmental Stewards and ofthe Local Chairman and will provide the name ofthe alternate inthe event of substitution.
ARTICLE 10	LABOUR/MANAGEMENT BARGAINING
RELATIONS
10,01	REPRESENTATION
The Corporation shall not bargain with or enter into any agreement with an employee or group of employees in the bargaining unit. No employee or group of employees shall undertake to represent the union at meetings with the Corporationwithout the proper authorization of the Union. In representing an employee or group of employees, an elected or appointed representative of the Union shall be the spokesman. In order that this may be carried out, the Union will supply the Corporation with the
names of its officers. Likewise, the Corporation shall supply the Union with a list of its management personnel with whom the Union may be required to transact business.
10.02	UNION BARGAINING COMMITTEE
A Union Bargaining Committee shall be elected or appointed and consist of not more than five (5) members of the Union. The Union will advise the Corporation of the Union nominees to the Committee.
10.03	The Union/Corporation may have the assistance of a representative from inside or outside the Union/Corporation in all matters pertaining to the relations between the Union and Corporation.
1-0.04 If the National Representative of the Union servicing this bargaining unit or his nominee wishes to contact one of the Union representatives at work concerning some urgent in-plant problem relating to the agreement, he shall make such requests through the Department/Site Head, or designate, and, providing such meeting will not interfere with the operations, arrangements will be made for such Union representatives to confer in ;private, at the premises of the Corporation.
ARTICLE 11	STRIKES. LOCKOUTS. ETC.
11.01	The Corporation agrees that there shall be no lockout and the Union and the employees agree that there shall be no strike, picketing, slowdown of work, either complete or partial curtailment of production or interference with the operations of the Corporation during the life of this Agreement or while negotiations for its amendment or renewal are in progress.
11.02	Upon receipt of any notice pursuant to PartV, Canada Labour Code from the Union of its intention to commence a lawful strike, representatives of the Corporation and the Union shall meet for the purpose of reviewing and determining the extent to which employees, coming within the bargaining unit,
10
will be required to maintain services essential to the safely of the collieries and protection of the Corporation's product and property. Such employees shall not suspend work, but shall, when mining is suspended, fully protect all the Corporations's property under their care.
No member of the bargaining unit shall leave his place of work in any work stoppage situation without first ensuring that all equipment and/or machinery, etc. is shut down in a safe and orderly manner.
ARTICLE 12	ALCOHOLISM & DRUG ADDICTION
12.01	Without detracting from the existing rights and obligations ^?|«» j of the parties recognized in other provisions of the Agreement, ‘ the Corporation and the Union agree to cooperate at the Colliery or department levef in encouraging employees afflicted with alcoholism or drug addiction to undergo a co-ordinated program directed to the objective of their rehabilitation.
ARTICLE 13	DISCHARGEAND DISCIPLINE
13.01	The Corporation Policy and Procedure entitled Corrective Discipline shall cover all matters of discipline and discharge of employees covered by the Collective Agreement.
13.02	Any employee has the right to review his/her personnel file.
13.03	Any member being given disciplinary action should have Union representation present.
ARTICLE 14	NO GRIEVANCE WHEN MINE IS IDLE
IN VIOLATION OF AGREEMENT
14.01	Under no circumstances shall a grievance be taken up for
11
adjustment during a suspension of work in violation of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 15	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
15,01	A grievance shall be a difference of interpretation of this Agreement or the violation of the provision of this Agreement.
, Every grievance shall be subject to the grievance procedure set out hereunder:
Step 1: When an employee has a grievance he shall within five (5) working days of the occurrence of the incident giving rise to the grievance, file the grievance in writing on the form attached hereto as 'Schedule Y’ with the Shift Manager or Department Head, who shall provide him with an answer, in writing, within two (2) working days.
Step 2: Should the written answer given by the Shift Manager or Department Head not be acceptable to the grievor, then the grievor and his steward shall meet with the designated manager and attempt to resolve the grievance within five (5) working days. The Manager shall give his decision, in writing, within seven (7) working days of receipt of the alleged grievance.
Step 3: Failing settlement at Step 2, the grievance may be appealed by the Local Chairman of the Grievance Committee to the General Manager or his nominee within five working days of delivery of the decision at Step 2. At this step, the General Manager or his nominee, and a representative of the Employee Relations Department shall meet and discuss the grievance with the Local Chairman or his nominee and other representatives of the Union as the local chairman shall designate, not to exceed two employee members of the bargaining unit together with a national representative of the union, or his nominee, if he desires to attend. The General Manager will act as Chairman of this Step 3 meeting. The two employee members of the bargaining unit may be exceeded from time to time when requested by the Union, if the circumstances of the par-
12
ticular grievance require additional representation. The decision of the Corporation at this step shall be rendered within ten (10) calendar days of the deliver of the appeal to the General Manager. Failing settlement of the grievance at Step 3, the matter may then be referred to arbitration within fifteen (15) days of the decision at Step 3.
Note: Distribution of Replies
Step 1 - Grievor and Local Chairman Step 2 - Grievor and Local Chairman Step 3 - National Representative and Local Chairman
15.02	In the case of a discharge or where a dispute involving a question of general application or interpretation occurs, Step 1 may be by-passed.
15.03	The Corporation may institute a grievance by delivering the same, in writing, to the President of Local Union 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees, and the president shall answer such grievance within seven (7) working days. If the answer is not acceptable to the Corporation, the Corporation may within ten (10) working days from the day the President gives his answer, giving ten (10) working days' notice to the president of the Local Union 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees, of its intention to refer the dispute to arbitration.
15.04	:The time limits, as herein expressed, may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties hereto.
15.05	For purposes of this Article - Sundays, Saturdays, and holidays shall not be counted as working days.
ARBITRATION
15.06	Notice in writing may be given by one patty to the other, after the foregoing designated procedures have been exhausted, requiring the unresolved grievance to be submitted to
13
arbitration. In such cases, the Corporation and the Union shall each appoint an arbitrator within ten (10) days following the delivery of the written notice calling for arbitration, and these two (2) arbitrators shall endeavour to appoint a third, who shall be chairman. The parties may, however, mutually agree to the appointment <f a single arbitrator to hear the matter, f the Chairman is not selected by the first two named within fifteen (15) days after the delivery of the written notice, then the chairman shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour, Canada. Management and Union will then submit a written brief to the Arbitration Board.
15.07	The hearing shall be heard in Cape Breton unless the parties otherwise mutually agree in writing. Each party shall bear the remuneration and expenses, if any of the arbitrator appointed by that party. The remuneration and expenses of the chairman, if any, shall be borne equally by both parties. The Arbitration Board shall render a decision within thirty (30) days after presentation of written briefs, unless there is a mutual agreement on a postponement.
15.08	In the event a unanimous decision is not reached, the decision of the majority shall be the decision of the Board. Should no majority decision be reached, the decision of the Chairman shall be the decision of the Board. In all cases the decision shall be final and binding upon both patties, but in no case shall the decision alter, modify, or amend any part of this Agreement, or make any other decision inconsistent with specific terms of this Agreement.
The Board shall have the authority, in cases where its decision is that the grievor was improperly discharged or suspended, to order his reinstatement.
Any voluntary abandonment of a grievance by either party to the Agreement will not prejudice the processing of a similar grievance entered at a later date provided that the Union has acknowledged, in writing, that they were so abandoning the grievance without decision.
14
15.09	Although .06 and .07 hereof provide for written briefs, this is not to be taken to mean that oral argument is precluded during the arbitral process.
ARTICLE 16	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Union Functions
16.01	Upon written request to the employer, an employee elected or appointed to represent the Union at conventions, or to attend executive and committee meetings of CUPE, shall be allowed leave of absence without pay. This shall be limited to five (5) employees at any one time.
16.02	Elected union representatives will be permitted to report off work for the purpose of attending to Union business. Permission to take such time off must be requested under Clause .02, Article 8, Regularity of Work. Conformation of such absence must be confirmed in writing by the Union Executive.
16.03	General Leave

An employee may be allowed 60 days leave orab-sence without pay in any one calendar year for personal reasons if a request is made to the Corporation in writing and the reason given is satisfactory to the Corporation. It is the exclusive right of the Corporation to refuse to grant leave of absence or to extend leave of absence for additional periods, for reasons satisfactory to the Corporation.
16.04	Leave of Absence for Full-Time Union or Public Duties
(a)	The employer recognizes the right of an employee to participate in public affairs. Therefore, upon written request, the employer shall allow leave of absence without pay or benefits so the employee may be a candidate in federal, provincial, or municipal elections.
15
(b)	An employee who is elected to public office, within the context of (a) of this article, shall be allowed leave of absence without loss of seniority during his term of office.
(c)	An employee who is elected or selected for a fulltime position with the Union shall be granted leave of absence without loss of seniority for a maximum period of three years. Such leave may be renewed on request, by mutual agreement, during his term of office. It is understood such employee will not accrue credit for any Corporation benefits during such leave of absence.
(d)	Employeesgranted leave of absence under Article
16.02	(b) (c) must returnto work within (2) months afterthe expiration of such elected position of appointment.
ARTICLE 17	^	SENIORITY
17.01	Definitions
(a)	Seniority shall be defined' as. most recent date of employmentwith the Corporation
(b) Probationary Employee' means an employee on probation for the first three months from his most recent date of employment with the Corporation.
(c)	Permanent Employee' means an employee who occupies position within the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement and who has satisfactorily completed his probationary period.
(d)	Ability' shall include experience and skill on the job, attitude, and adaptability.
(e)	Redundant means the elimination of a position. Employees affected as a result of redundancy will be considered as laid off and will be entitled to exercise their seniority under layoff and recall (.02 below).
16
17.02 Lay-off and Recall
(a)	The Corporation shall retain the right at all times to maintain an efficient working force. The Corporation will advise union representatives in advance of any layoffs.
(b)	In the event of a lay-off of employees covered by this Agreement, the Corporation shall reduce the work force employed in the following manner:
(i)Probationary employees will be laid off first, then permanent employees.
(ii)Shortterm lay-off- If the lay-off is for a duration not exceeding three months, lay-offs will be confined to the affected location(s) only, based on site seniority and ability to perform the work. Ability is defined in .01 (d) above.
(i)	It is understood employees who exercise their seniority in the bumping process must also have the ability to perform the work. (Ability defined in .01 (d) above.
(ii)	An employee who is laid off will have the right to bump a junior employee at that site.
(iii)	An employee bumped from a particular site will have the right to bump a junior employee at another site.
(iv)	The most junior employee bumped from a site will have the right to bump the most junior employee inthe bargain-
(d) Recall to work follo „	ay-off shall be done in
reverse order of seniority provided the employees recalled are able to perform satisfactorily the work to be done.
(c)	General Lay-off
ing unit.
17
17.03 Loss of Employment Status
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, an employee's employment with the Corporation shall be terminated upon any one of the following:-
(a)	He is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated.
(b)	He resigns in writing and does not withdraw within three working days.
(c)	He is absent from work in excess of five (5) working days without sufficient cause or without notifying the employer, unless such notice was not reasonably possible.
(d)	He fails to return to work within fifteen (15) calendar days following a layoff and after being notified by registered main to do so. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the employer informed of his current address. An employee recalled for casual work or employment elsewhere shall not lose his recall rights for refusal to return to work.
(e)	He is laid off for a period equivalent to his length of continuous service with the Corporation or for a period of thirty-six (36) months whichever is the lesser.
(9 Absence extended beyond an authorized vacation period beyond a leave of absence granted by the Corporation where the reasons given for such extended absence are not satisfactory to the Corporation.
17.04	The Corporation shall post a seniority list showing date upon which each employee’s service commenced and current classification by March 31 st of each year.
17.05	Transfers
The following terms will govern the transfer of employees into or out of the bargaining unit.
18
(a)	No employee will be promoted to a position outside the bargaining unit without his/her consent.
(b)	When Employees are appointed to positions within the bargaining unit, the qualifying period will be three months.
(c)	In the event an employee is transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit, he/she shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit within one year of the appointment.
(d)	If an employee who has been transferred out of the bargaining unit is appointed to a position in the bargaining unit after one year, or a person who was never a member of the bargaining unit is appointed to a bargaining unit position, such transfer or appointment will not result in the loss of a position to another bargaining unit member.
(e)	In the event an employee is recalled to work at a work site other than his former location and in the event that work again becomes available at his former location, or at a new location preferable to the employee, and before junior employees are assigned to the former location or new location, those employees with seniority would have a right to return to the former location or other new location before less senior employees.
(f)	Employees who opt to return to a former location or to a new location still have thirty (30) days to indicate their
_ intentions beginning from the time the job atthe former location or new location becomes permanent.
18.01	The standard hours of work shall be forty (40) hours per week consisting of five (5) straight time eight-hour shifts. The standard hours of work are exclusive of any time spent by the employee either before or after his eight (8) hour shift in making or receiving reports, both oral and written, as required by Management. Shift starting times shall be arranged to suit the oper-
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME
19
ating schedule of the collieries and/or departments.
18.02	It will be the responsibility of each employee to comply with the timekeeping system requirements and be at his place of work by the established shift starting time and not leave this place of work until the end of the shift. In the case of underground employees, the last conveyance will leave the surface at the shift starting time and it will be the responsibility of the employee to be enroute to his work place below the portal at that time.
18.03	Employees required to work rotating shifts (days, nights, and evenings) shall be scheduled in such a way as to equitably assign the rotation among the employees at each work site. This does not preclude employees from being continuously assigned to an evening or night shift if mutually agreed.
18.04	During each eight (8) hour shift, an employee isentitledto a lunch break of one period of twenty (20) minutes, at a time designated by Management which will not prejudicethe over-all efficiency of the operation.
18.05	The hours of work shall normally be posted one week in advance of the schedule to be worked.
18.06	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime rates for the same hours worked.
18.07	An employee's scheduled hours of work shall not be construed as a guarantee of a minimum or maximum hours of work.
18.08	Employees shall be deemed to be on duty during any period falling within their scheduled hours of work.
18.09	Overtime shifts shall be shared equitably over a period of three months among qualified employees who normally work in the place where the overtime work is required. Standard hours shall conform to the provision in the Canada Labour Code.
18.10	Time worked in excess of the standard hours shall be
20

compensatedfor at the rate of time and one-ha# (11/2) the classification rate for the work performed.
18.11	An employee occupying on a permanent basis a job classification coming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit (CUPE 2046), as described in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certification Order, will, subjectto paragraph 2 hereof, be paid a premium overtime (1 1/2T) rates on the actual minute basis when directed by managementto attend Planned Maintenance or Cost Analysis meetings continuous with their regular rostered shift hours.
18.12	For purposes of the above, premium overtime (1 1/2T) rates will commence only after the employee has completed pre-shift and post-shift reports as required my Management.
(a)	Employees called back to work on irregular hours other than immediately following or immediately prior to their regularly rostered shift will be credited with four (4) hours actually worked.
(b)	Employees who are called back to work within the meaning of Clause (a) of this Article and who subsequently work more than four (4) hours and not more than eight (8) hours will be credited with eight (8) hours actually worked. Premium overtime provision applies in accordance with the Canada
18.13	Employees required by management to attend Arbitration Hearings or Investigations arising bout of circumstances initiated by another union, shall be paid on an hour-for-hour basis and such time will be considered as time actually worked by that employee.
18.14	In the application of this provision there shall be no overlapping of hours paid.
18.15	Overtime shall be paid within two (2) pay periods of its occurrence.
18.16	An employee who works an overtime shift on Sunday and
21
ty,0
r directly supervises datal paid employees receiving double time payment for work performed on Sundays shall be paid at double the regular classification rate when so employed. This double time payment is, however, wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his regular rostered shifts in that particular week.
18.17	Under no circumstances shall an employee be entitled to payment of the weekend premium in respect of Sundays for which he has been paid double the regular classification rate.
35-Hour Wfeek Positions
The standard hours of work shall continue to be thirty-five (35hours per week consisting of five (5) straight time 7-hour shifts where concurrently applicable.
ARTICLE 19
19.01	SHIFT PREMIUM
(a)	Subject to Clause b (below) shift differentials shall be paid at the rate of $0,175 per hour for each hour worked between3:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. and $0,350 per hourfor each hourworked between 11:00 p.m, and 7:00 a.m.
(b) Shift differential shall not apply to:-
(i)	Overtime of less than four (4) hours.
(ii)	The calculation of holiday and vacation pay.
(iii)	Regular rostered day shift hours.
19.02WEEKEND PREMIUM	°
O-K? '
(a)Subject to the conditions enumerated below, an employee shall receive a premium of ten dollars ($10.00) over his regular classification rate for each of those shifts between 7:00 a,m, on Saturday to 7:00 a.m, on Monday for which he is regularly scheduled and actually works the full eight (8) hours.
22
(i)	The ten dollar ($10.00) premium will not be paid if the weekend shift is a shift in excess of his five (5) normal shifts for that week.
(ii)	The ten dollar ($10.00) premiumwill not be paid if the weekend shift otherwise entitles the employee to premium overtime pay.
19.03	UNDERGROUND PREMIUM
(a)	A premium of $3,00 over eight (8) hour shift shall be paid to employees who are employed underground in the Corporation's several collieries.
(b)	The underground premium shall not form part of any classification rate.
“Railway Despatchers will continue to be paid shift differentials at the rate of $0.30 per hour for each hour worked between 3:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m., and $0,350 per hour for each hourworked between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. as a ‘red-circled premium’.
ARTICLE 20	ASSIGNMENTS
20.01	When an employee is assigned by management to perform for a temporary period the duties of a higher rated job within the bargaining unit, he shall be paid the rate for the job from the first day of such assignment provided such employee is fully qualified to perform same.
20.02	When an employee is assigned by Management to perform for a temporary period the duties of a lower rated job (while his own job is working) he shall be paid at his regular rate of pay. if the employee requests such an assignment, he shall receive the rate covering the job.
20.03	Any employee who is permanently assigned to a lower
23
rated job shall receive the rate of the job from the first day of such assignment.
20.04	When members of the bargaining unit are appointed by management to temporarily replace management personnel, the monthly rate of pay shall be fifteen percent (15%) more than the current monthly salary of the employee so temporarily reassigned. The employee shall also be paid at the appropriate overtime rate for all overtime shifts and overtime hours worked in excess of the normal work day hours associated with the management position. The overtime payment shall be calculated on the employee's regular rate of pay. Any such overtime must be authorized by the manager or his designate. It is anticipated that overtime under this provision would be paid only in extraordinary circumstances.
ARTICLE 21	MILEAGE EXPENSES
21.01	Employees eligible to receive automobile mileage allowance will be paid in accordance with the Corporation's policy on mileage allowance.
21.02	Employees covered by this Collective Agreement who are required to work any rostered shifts at areas other than their rostered location will be paid applicable mileage rates in accordance with the Corporation's policy.
21.03	Security Checks
The Corporation will pay the sum of $2.00 per trip or applicable mileage rate, whichever is the greater, to employees who, throughout their shift, are required to use their own vehicles to carry out security checks.
ARTICLE 22
JURY/CROWN WITNESS DUTY
22.01	An employee summoned for jury/crown witness duty and
24
who is required to lose time from his regular scheduled shift(s) as a result thereof shall be paid for actual time lost with a maximum of one basic day's (8 hours) pay at the straight time rate applicable to the classification last performed for each day lost, less the amount allowed him for duty for each day, excluding allowances paid by the Court for meals, lodging, or transportation, subject to the following requirements and limitations.
22.02	The Corporation shall be liable for payment only in those cases where the Court recognizes attendance and compensates the employee for same. In all cases, the Corporation's financial liability shall be governed by the limitations contained in paragraph .01 above.
22.03	An employee must furnish the Corporation with a statement from the Court of allowances paid and the days on which such duty was performed.
22.04	The number of working days for which jury/crown witness duty shall be paid is limited to a maximum of forty five (45) days in any calendar year.
22.05	No jury/crown witness duty pay will be allowed for any day for which the employee is in receipt of annual vacation pay or general holiday pay.
ARTICLE 23
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
23.01	In the event of the death of a spouse or a child, an employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave on any of his regularly rostered shifts, exclusive of overtime, that occur during the four (4) days immediately following the death.
23.02	Inthe event of the death of a parent, step-parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or any relative permanently residing* in employee's household or with whom the employee resides, the employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave on any of his regularly rostered shifts that
25
occur during the three (3)days immediately following the death.
* Includes foster child (1989)
23.03	Any employee referredto in Clauses .01, .02 (above) who has completedthree consecutive months of continuous employment shall be entitled to his bereavement leave with pay as his regular rate of wages for his regular hours of work.
23.04	An employee who qualifies under .01 above shall be entitled to (2) additional days for travel, if bereavement is outside Cape Breton, and such time off is without pay.
23.05	Such leave, without pay, may be extended due to exceptional circumstances at the sole discretion of management.
23.06	Inthe eventan employee is required to cease work during one of his rostered shifts due to bereavement in the family, he will not be docked for the unworked portion of that shift and that day will not be counted as a bereavement day.
ARTICLE 24	MATERNITY LEAVE
24.01	Maternity Leave without pay shall be granted after twelve
(12) month of continuous service from the date of employment. Upon the advice of her physician, the employee may request !eave starting at the beginning of her seventh month. The employee shall returnto work within two (2) months following delivery. Upon written request, this period may be extended. The employee will return to her former nositiorj in the Corporation without loss of seniority.	^o4
24.02	Up to two (2) months’ leave without pay shall be granted to an employee on request for the adoption of a child.
ARTICLE 25
VACATIONS
25.01 Paid vacation shall be granted on the following basis: 1 2/3 days for each twenty (^Ojdays worked. Maximum vacation
entitlement shall be twenty (20) days in any calendar year.
Employees will be paid at their current rates of pay.
25.02	Vacations will be scheduled to least interfere with the operation of the business of the Corporation and will conform as near as possible with the general period of vacations scheduled by the Corporation. It is understood that, insofar as is practicable, the Corporation will schedule the fourth week of vacation, for employees qualified to receive same, during the period between Christmas Day and the first day of the New Year.
25.03	Vacation credits are established in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which the vacation is normally due to be taken.
25.04	Vacations will be taken in the year they fall due. If, however, employees are requested by management to work vacation period(s) and not enough time remains in the calendar year for the employee to take his earned vacation in that year, the vacation days not taken shall be put over to the calendar year immediately following and taken at a time mutually convenient to the employee and management.
25.05	For purposes of calculating vacation pay, days worked shall mean paid vacations days, paid statutory holidays, absences from work due to on-the-job injury (for which Workers’ Compensation is paid), paid bereavement leave, jury duty absences, authorized absences for union business except those granted under Article 16.02, or an illness or accident for which benefits are received under Article 27 of this Agreement. In no cases shall an employee receive credit for more than sixty-six (66) days in any calendar year in respect of the two last-named benefits. Where an employee has no earnings, the aforementioned sixty-six (66) days shall not be applicable.
25.06	An employee while on his/her annual vacation, becomes hospitalized* shall have the right to be placed on sick leave and these days shall be counted as sick days and not vacation days.
27
‘Hospitalized - The employee must actually be admitted to hospital and the Nova Scotia Health Services Commission must recognized such admission by paying for a full day stay in the hospital. The Corporation has the right to solicit such information from the employee or the hospital.
25.07	Any employee leaving the services of the Corporation after working a full year since his last vacation period will be given four weeks salary. Any employee leaving the Corporation's service after working less than a full year since his last vacation period will, providing he is not dismissed for cause or leaves the service of his own accord and for reasons beyond his control, be given 1 2/3 days salary for each twenty (20) days worked since his last vacation period.
25.08	Vacation pay will be at the employee's current rate of pay when he takes his vacation. If an employee works a part year on datal pay and reverts to a salary, he will draw as his vacation pay the datal rate cr the salary rate whichever is greater.
25.09	Applicable to Railway Dispatchers (former RCTC Members)
Effective January t, 1989, the following Railway Despatches will retain their present vacation entitlement while members of the bargaining unit until date of retirement or termination.
The qualifications and terms of coverage for vacation entitlement will be in accordance with the remainder of this Article except that employees with more than four weeks entitle-mentwill have entitlement pro-rated (Clauses.01 and .07). The employees are:-
CheckMo.	Namp	Vacation Entitlement
9514	Allister MacDonald	6	weeks
9515	Lonnie Grant	6	weeks
9516	Clarence Miller	6	weeks
28
9518
9522
9525
9529
9531
9532
Lester Merrill Andy Newell Bruce MacKeigan Ed Provoe Mark Appleton Joe Woodford
6 weeks 5 weeks 5 weeks 4 weeks 4 weeks 4 weeks
ARTICLE 26
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
A.	Holiday Entitlement
26.01 Paid Holidays shall be granted as follows:-
n
:j
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
New Years Day Good Friday Victoria Day Miners' Memorial Day Canada Day
11. Floating Holiday
6.	Labour Day
7.	Thanksgiving Day
8.	Remembrance Day
9.	Christmas Day
10.	Boxing Day
26.02	(a) If the Government of Canada designates Heritage Day or such other day as a General Holiday, the day so designated by the Government shall be substituted for the Floating Holiday. The Floating Holiday will be celebrated under the following conditions:
(b)	The employee must make application to Management at least two weeks in advance of the designated day.
(c)	Eligibility for payment for ‘additional holiday' shall be determined in the same manner as at present for statutory holidays, counting back from the first day of the Christmas vacation in the previous calender year.
(d)	Eligible employees who do not use the Floating Holiday entitlement prior to December 1st in the year to which entitled, will have payment included in the Christmas week pay.
26.03	When any of the above holidays fall on Sunday orSatur
29
day, the day observed by the Federal Government in respect of its employees as the holiday shall be recognized. If in the Province of Nova Scotia, a holiday is more generally recognized than any one of the holidays specified above, the signatories hereto will substitute such holidays.
26.04	If a statutory holiday falls within the employee’s vacation period, the employee is entitled to an additional day’s pay provided he was entitled to pay for such holiday. The additional day must be taken as either-
1.	an extra day's pay; or
2.	an extra vacation pay; or
3.	a floating holiday
Such day is to be taken at a date mutually agreed to between the employee and management.
26.05	The holiday rate of pay for employees qualified to receive same shall be one day at the straight time classification rate of the majority of shifts paid in the week in which the holiday occurs. In cases where an equal number of shifts have been worked at different rates or where several rates are paid during the week in which the holiday occurs the rate of pay for the holiday shall be at the average daily straight time classification rate earned in that week.
26.06	The service qualification for payment of any of the holidays specified above is as follows:
(a)	The employee must have been in the active employ of the Corporation for at least thirty (30) calendar days.
(b)	The employee must have been entitled to wages for at leastfive (5) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday concerned.
26.07	Employees shall be paid at double the regular classification rate for all time worked on a paid statutory holiday. The
30
double time payment is, however, wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his remaining regular rostered shifts during the week in which the holiday occurs. In addition to the foregoing, employees shall be paid for the statutory holiday provided the requisite conditions for such payment are met by the employee.
26.08	Banking Holidays
Employees who are rostered to work on any of the statutory holidays (excluding the floating holiday) may elect to bank the premium hours payable, to be taken as time off, with pay, at a later date on the following conditions:-
(a)	the maximum time to be banked is forty-eight (48) hours.
(b)	time must be ‘banked' in amounts of eight (8) hours.
(c)	time off will only be granted where operational requirements permit.
(d)	requests to bank time must be in writing on approved forms.
(e)	request for time off must be made at least one full week in advance. Approval of the site head or designate is required.
ARTICLE 27	SICK LEAVE
27.01	General - Incumbent Employees Priorto January 1, 1982
(a)ln the event of an employee being absent from work as a result of personal disability due to sickness or accident, such employee, while in the employ of the Corporation, shall continue to receive his normal rate of pay exclusive of premium pay, shift premium, or any special allowance to the extend that he is entitled according to the applicable provision of this Collective Agreement and this Article.
31
(b)	Salaries paid under this provision of this Article shall be subject to normal and statutory deductions and further reduced by the amounts of any Workers' Compensation payments that may be made to an employee with respect to the period in which such salary is drawn. For each day off work and receiving Workers’ Compensation payments, one-quarter (1/4) day sick credit will be deducted from the employee’s credits. Under no’ circumstances does an employee on compensation have his payments made up to his salary for more thah sixty-six (66) working days, a-his current entitlement as per Am®l© 17-83 (t>) in any calendar year.
The Corporation will pay full salary while an employee is on Workers' Compensationfor a maximum period of:
(1)	six (6) weeks;
(2)	until Workers' Compensation payments are received by the employee; or
(3)	until exhaustion of sick leave entitlements; whichever comes first.
(c)	Salary continuation is not applicable to self-inflictedillness or injury. Any employee who absents himself from work due to sickness or accident may be required to submit to an examination by a doctor appointed by the Corporation.
An employee unable because of sickness or injury to attend at work at the beginning of a new calendar year and having worked the last rostered shift priorto Christmasvacation may receive the unused portion of his sick leave left from the previous year.	,
(d)	In all absences, in order to qualify for payment under this section, the employee's attending physician must fill out a Medical Disability Certificate supplied by the Corporation. Such certificate must be submitted to the manager or department supervisor within three working days after return to work. Management reserves the right to investigate any claim of absence to ensure authenticity, and may contact the employee's physician for further information on the employee's illness or injury.
32
(e)	To qualify for sick leave payment in a particular calendar year, the employee must have worked a minimum of five rostered days during that calendar year.
(9 Any employee who is off work due to sickness or personal disability at the beginning of a calendar year, and such absence from work is a continuation from the previous calendar year, then the employee will be entitled to use that portion of unused sick credits from the previous calendar year, provided that no employee shall be paid for more than 66 sick days in any calendar year.	f----
27.02	Sick Leave Credit
Employees who have been members of the bargaining unit prior to the signing of the Memorandum of Settlement will be granted sick credits on the following basis:
Under 12 months of continuous service
Service Requirements
1	day for each month of service
Over 12 months of continuous	22 days during a
service butunder60 months	calendaryear
of continuous service
Over 60 months of continuous	44 days during a
service butunder180 months	calendaryear
of continuous service
Over 180 months of continuous service
66 days during a calendar year.
27.03	Sick Leave- NewBargaining Unit Employees Subsequent to January 1,1982
(a)	An employee incumbent in a position with the bargaining unit for six (6) months continuously from his most recent
33
entry into the unit may earn sick leave credits as per Article
27.03	(b) during the six months. The sick leave earned shall be credited to the employee at the expiry of the six months, provided he has worked all of his rostered shifts during the six month period.
'y J	(b) Sick leave credits shall accumulate as a privilege
at the rate of 1 1/4 working days for every twenty (20) regularly scheduled 8-hour shifts worked to a maximum of 66 days. Such sick leave shall be paid at the employee's regular rate of pay for an eight (8) hour shift straight time; and further provided that the employee has received prior permission from the manager or designate to be absent from any remaining regularly scheduled shifts in respect of that month effective from the date of his appointment as a member of that bargaining unit.
(c)	Any salary paid under Article 27.03 shall be subject to the requirementsof 27.01 (b).
(d)	An employee receivingWorkers‘ Compensation as a result of injury or accident shall have such Workers' Compensation benefits augmented by pay from the Corporation at the rate of one-quarter (1/4) an earned sick day for each day while on Workers’ Compensation, provided that the combined benefits payable under this section shall in no case exceed the employee's pay for a regularly scheduled eight (8) hour shift after statutory deductions.
(e)	In no case shall payment of the combined benefit exceed 100% of his regular salary after statutory deductions. Payment of this combined benefit shall be limited to not more than three (3) months in any twelve (12) month period com-mencingfrom the date of disability. In the event of such disability, payments will commence on the first day of layoff on the first day of disability and on the second day of layoff in all succeeding periods of disability.
(9 In the event of hospitalization, benefits will be paid from the first day of layoff provided that the employee has sick
34
leave days to his credit. In this section, ‘hospitalization' means that the employee has been admitted to a hospital for a 24-hour period and that the stay inthe hospital has been paid for by the Nova Scotia Health Services Commission.
(g)	Within three (3)days of his return to work, an employee must submit to the Corporation a Medical Disability Certificate as supplied by the Corporation and completed by the employee’s attending physician. The Corporation reserves the right to request a medical examination of the employee by a physician appointed by the Corporation and in the event of hospitalization, the Corporation reserves the right to obtain further information on the nature and extend of the illness and recovery from the employee, his physician and/or the hospital.
(h)	It is the intention of this plan to assist employees with their expenses while sick or injured.
(i)	Sick leave shall not be paid concurrently with Unemployment Insurance Commission benefits.
ARTICLE 28	DEATH BENEFITS FOR PENSIONERS
28.01	It is agreed that subject to the exceptions outlined in this Article, there will be a deduction of ten ($0.10) cents from each employee and the amount so deducted shall be added to Corporation Payment of $750.00 and paid to the beneficiary upon the death of any person who retired prior to November 1, 1965, under the provisions of the 1923 Pension Plan provided that such persons had no benefits under the current Group Life Insurance Plan. For the purposes of this Article, an employee who was on the books of the Dominion Coal Company Limited or Old Sydney Collieries Limited but off work at November 1, 1965, and who became deceased. The beneficiary shall be considered eligible for the Death Benefit as outlined herein.
If the Government accepts responsibility and a Compensation Pension had been paid, or if the former employee is on a "burnt-out” pension, there will be a ten ($0.10) cent deduction from employees but no $750.00 contribution by the Corporation.
35
ARTICLE 29	RETIREMENTALLOWANCE
29.01	The Corporation shall, subject to the terms and conditions setforth below, make a compassionate lumpsum payment not to exceed $25,000.00 to the widow and wholly dependent children of any employee who is fatally injured while at his work place.
29.02	The maximum sum payable to the widow shall be $10,000.00. In cases where the deceased employee has no surviving widow, then the principal sum of $10,000.00 which would otherwise have been payable to the widow shall be made to the legal guardian, if any, for the benefit of the deceased employee's wholly dependent children.
29.03	The maximum sum payable in respect to wholly dependent children shall be $15,000.00 calculated on the following basis:
(a)	For each wholly dependent child $5,000.00 to a maximum of three children or $15,000.00 total.
(b)	In cases where there are more than three wholly dependent children the amount per child shall be determined by dividing $15,000.00 by the total number of wholly dependent children.
29.04	Any dispute or question which may in the future arise from the interpretation of meaning of the word employee, fatal injury, legal guardian, work place, widow, or wholly dependent child, shall be resolved in a context as determined by the Workmen's Compensation Board of Nova Scotia.
ARTICLE 30	/ RETIREMENTALLOWANCE
30.01	A RetirementAllowance off$956,59 (January 1, 1990) will be paid to each active itnpioJee on the date of his normal retirement (age 65) and ta disabled pensioned employees on reaching65 - (notapplicabledqfP.R.L.).
30.02	The retirement allowance of $956.59 shall be escalated annually for cost-of-living increases commencing January,
36
1991, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases, and, if the aforementioned formula shall be revises at any time, then the formula by which the retirement allowance is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
ARTICLE 31	SAFETY APPAREL
31.01	The Corporation shall provide, on an as needed basis, safety apparel to active employees, subject to the following conditions.
31.02	Safety coveralls, safety work boots, and leather work gloves shall be worn by employees at all times in work areas designated by Management.
31.03	The Corporation shall provide up to the following maximum per year:
(a)	Two (2) pairs of coveralls to each surface employee
(b)	Three (3) pairs of coveralls to each underground employee
(c)	One (1) pair of low cut leather work boots or two (2) pair knee high rubber work boots to each employee.
(d)	Two (2) pair of leather work gloves to each employee.
31.04	Replacement items shall only be provide free of charge by the Corporation on the basis that damaged or worn-out items to be replaced are turned in to the Corporation.
31.05	The low-cut leather work boots and leather work gloves shall be the kind normally stocked in the Corporation's warehouse.
31.06	Safety apparel shall not be provided for employees in office of other sedentary positions.
37
31.07	For the purposes of this Article, the following are not deemed to be active employees:
(a)	Persons not working and in receipt of any retirement or disability benefits.
(b)	Persons who for any reason have missed more than ninety (90) days’ work during the year in which they request safety apparel.
NOTE:The above clauses do not apply to security guards and to nurses who are covered by the following:
Security Guards Only:
31.08	1 Pea Jacket
1 4-Seasons Jacket 1 Winter Hat 1 Summer Hat
1	Rain Coat
2	Pants
3	Shirts 1 Tie
Condemned Only Condemned Only Condemned Only Condemned Only Condemned Only Every Year Every Year Every Year
31.09	The Corporation will pay the sum of $110,00* in 1987 and in 1988 to employees covered by the bargaining unit so as to enable them to purchase a regular type and colour police boot, flashlight, work gloves etc., and batteries as required.
31.10	The aforementioned annual amounts shall be pro rated on a monthly basis in the contract year in respect to security personnel who are not actively employed for the full contract year in the Security Department.
31.11	Permanent Nurses Only
One hundred dollars (100.00)* per year for uniform purchase shall be provided to each nurse, pro-rated over the calendar year. The one hundred dollars shall be paid in May of each
38
year. Part-time nurses shall receive one (1) lab coat during the term of the Collective Agreement.
*This amount will be increases at a rate equivalent to the general wage increases granted by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 32
5% CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PIAN
1 eligibility - Optional to full time employees of the Corporation JMio commenced employment priorto February 22,1987. Man-T datory as a condition of employmentfor all new* employeesto > the bargaining uniton or after February22, 1987.
* Excepting those employees of the former bargaining units who became members as a result of the vertical/hori-zontal review/merger.	. j i ^
Normal Retirement/; (j/
Age 65
V\
Employee Contributions
5% of earnings, (in addition to Canada Pension Plan Contributions).	./
Corporation Contributions	/ ^
Equalto the total of the employees contributions, plus any additional contributions required to keep the Plan actuarially sound, ( in addition to Canada Pension Plan Contributions).
Pension at Retirement
(a) Future	In addition to the Canada Pension Plan,
Service	2% of career average earningswhile a
participant of the Plan, adjusted for cost-of-living increases.*
39
(b) Past Service
Employees in Union Local 2046 who retire from the Corporation on their normal retirement date and are entitledto pension under the new Contributory Plan maintained by the Corporation, shall receive under the Non-Contributory Plan a basic pension benefit, if any, based on years of continuous service prior to joining the Contributory Pension Plan.
The basic pension benefit to be paid monthly is equal to twelve dollars and eight-seven cents ($12.87) (as of July 1, 1989) for each year of continuous service upto a maximum of 25 years, adjustedfor cost-of-living*increases. However, no employee having less than 10 years of continuous service shall be entitledto any pension benefit underthe non-contributory
plan.
Dependents Benefit
(a) Before Retirement
(b) After Retirement
5 years payment of earned pensionwith cost of living' increase (or employee . contributions with interest, if greater). (lllr
Balance of 5 years payment of pensionwith cost of living increases".
Total and permanent disability waiver.
A participant who became disabled may apply to the pension board for a waiver of contributions during the period of disability.
Termination Service
(a) Cash	If lessthan 10 years in the Plan, and under
Refund	age forty-five (45), return of employee
contributionswith interest.
40
(b) Vesting
Full vesting will apply after 10 years of service and attainment of age forty-five (45) for service priorto January 1,1987. For service after January 1, 1987, full vesting shall apply after two years service.
Any employee who does not elect to join the Contributory Plan will have a pension at retirement under the Noncontributory Plan. The basic benefit under the Non-Contributory Plan is equal to twelve dollars and eighty-seven cents ($12.87) (as of July 1, 1989) per monthjor each year of continuous service up to a maximum of 25/ydars.	, 6 P ,
*	b-' «jf H. ''	^
Cost-of-Living Increases	^
The pension at retirement and/or the dependent benefit shall be subject to annual cost-of-living increases on July 1st of each year equivalent in rate to the rate of increases provided by way of annual adjustments in retirement under the Canada Pension Plan.
The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Corporation's pension plan. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the content of the registered plan texts.
ARTICLE 33
CONTRACTING OUT
33.01	It is understood and agreed that the Corporation will not contract out work that is currently and normally performed by membersof CUPE2046. There will, however, be exceptions, as outlined below, but is it is also understood and agreed it is not the intent of the Corporation to lay cff members as a direct result of such contracting out.
The Corporation will not contract out work except:
(1)	when technical or managerial skills are not available from within the Corporation; or
41
(2)	where sufficient employees, qualified to perform work, are not available; or
(3)	when essential equipment or facilities are not available and cannot be made available from Corporation-owned property at the time and place required; or
(4)	where the nature or volume of the work is such that it does notjustify the capital or operating expenditure involved; or
(5)	the required time of completion of the work cannot be met with the skills, personnel, or equipment within the Corporation; or
(6)	where the nature or volume of the work is such that undesirable fluctuation in employmentwould automatically result.
The conditions set forth above will not apply in emergencies, to items obtained from manufacturers or supplies nor to the performance of warranty work.
In addition, the Corporation will advise the Union representatives involved, in writing, as far in advance as is practicable of its intention to contract out.
NOTE: RE SECURITY GUARDS ONLY
In order to provide jnfr purity for members of the bargaining unit, work, or services presently performed or hereafter assigned to the collective bargaining unit shall not be subcontracted, transferred, leased, assigned, or conveyed, in whole or in part, to any other plant, person, company, or non-union employees,
ARTICLE 34	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
34.01	For the purposes of the Collective Agreement, 'technological change' shall have the meaning defined in the Canada Labour Code.
42
34.02	For the purpose of the technological change provisions of the Collective Agreement, an ‘incumbent' shall mean any employee with more than ten (10)years compensated service from last date of hire.
S& '
34.03	No incumbent shall be laid off from the Corporation due - to technological change; provided that any incumbent, if re-✓ quired by the Corporation due to any technological change, ^ shall submit to reasonable retraining by or under the auspices
'ofTHe Corporation and shall accept transfer to any operating site within the Corporation.
34.04	Nothing in these provisions shall be construed as a waiver by an employee, whether incumbent or otherwise, of his right under the Canada Labour Code to make any application in respecf of technological change.
ARTICLE 35 SUPPLEMENTARYUNEMPLOYMENTBENEFITS
35.01	A supplementary Unemployment Benefit of fifty-seven dollars and thirty-eight cents ($57’.3^|)pep«eek will be paid by the Corporation in the event of^PWhTimein a colliery or department under the following terms and conditions:
(1)	The downtime must not have resulted in either
directly or indirectly from any action of any employee covered by this Agreement.	i
(2)	The employee's gross earnings for the weekly pay period must not have exceeded a sum equal to three times the basic classification rate in effect at the time of the downtime.
(3)	The Supplementary Unemployment Benefit will not paid concurrent with the payment of paid sick leave under Article 27 or monthly income insurance under Appendix A of this agreement or to employees on Workers' Compensation. (For the purpose of this section only, paid sick leave shall also
43
include benefits received under the Unemployment Insurance Sickness Benefit regulations.)
(4)	Employees who are already receiving benefits from the Unemployment Insurance Commission are not eligible to receive Supplementary Unemployment Benefit.
(5)	Payment of Supplementary Unemployment Benefits will be limited to a maximum period of twelve (12) months.
(6)	Downtime shall not include legal holidays or vacation days.
35.02	Escalation
The Supplementary Unemployment Benefit of fifty-seven dollars and thirty-eight cents (57.38) per weekly pay period, as described in the Collective Agreement, shall be escalated annually for cost-of-living increases commencing January 1, 1991, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Pan is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases, and if the aforementioned formula by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the Supplementary Unemployment Benefit is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
ARTICLE 36	SNOWSTORMS
36.01	This will confirm the understanding reached during negotiations concerning the policy which is to be adopted with respect to employees who, because of sever snow conditions, either report late for work or are unableto report at all.
36.02	All employeesare expected to make every effortto report for work on time, notwithstanding snow or storm conditions. However, in the circumstances quoted above, it is agreed that employees, who arrive late for their assignment, but report prior to the mid-point of their tour of duty, will be paid for the day
44
provided such late arrival is directly attributable to the aforementioned severe snow conditions. Employees who report after the mid-point of their tour of duty will be paid one-half day.
36.03	Employees referredto in .02 above, who only receive payment for one-half day may be provided the opportunity, during the immediate pay week, to work additional hours at straight time rates in order to make up part or all of such lost time.
36.04	With respect to employees referred to in .02 above, who missthe shift and are paid for the full day, will only be obligated to make up such lost time during the thirty (30) days immediately following the work day missed.
36.05	The above policy only applies when the proper municipal authorities have requested the public to leave their motor vehicles at home and local public transportation services are not operating due to snowstorm.
ARTICLE 37	MISCELLANEOUS
37.01	Tax Deductions
The Corporation agrees to deduct property taxes when so authorized, in writing, by the employee.
37.02	Credit Union Deductions
The Corporation agrees that deductions will be made for the Credit Union when so authorized, in writing, by the employee.
37.03	Price of Coal to Employees
Employees covered by this Agreement shall be governed by the terms negotiated between the Corporation and the major bargaining unit. In any event employeeswho have been laid off
45
and still have recall rights shall be extended credit on the purchase of coal to a maximum of six (6) tons.
A member of the bargaining unit required to work four (4) to eight (8) hours of overtime as an extension of his shift and has not been asked to do so prior to the start of that shift will be, when and where practicable, provided with a lunch, the cost of which shall be determined by Corporation Policy.
37.05	Correspondence
All correspondence between the parties, arising out of this agreement or incidental thereto, shall pass to and from the Director of Employee Relations and the Secretary of the Union and the National Representative.
37.06	Pay Days
(A)	During the term of this Agreement, the Corporation may, at its own discretion, implement a system whereby employee weekly wages will be deposited to account at the banking institution of the employee's choice.
(B)	A statement of the employee's weekly earnings and deductions will be provided to the employee at the worksite.
Should a new classification be created within the bargaining unit, as indicated in the Certification Order, during the term of this Aareement, the employer and the union will decide the rate
ing such negotiations. The salary when determined will be retroactive to the date on which the employee commenced work in the classification.
37.04	Overtime Meal
37.07	New Classification
46
37.08	Bulletin Boards
Bulletin Board space shall be provided or made available for use by the Union. The Union shall submit all notices to the Director of Employee Relations, or his designate, for approval prior to posting on such boards.
ARTICLE 38 38.01 Standby Pay
NURSES
When requested by Management, a nurse on stand-by on her scheduled day off, or a nurse on call, shall be compensated on the following basis:
January 1 , 1989 to December31,1992 - $20.00
! a ’
38.02	Medical Examinations	\ V /	/
--------------------- ^ 1 / V
Nurses required by the Corporation to have' medical tests, etc., shall have same paid for by the Corporation. The results of medical tests, etc., or any other medical information on a nurse shall be handled in strict confidentiality.
38.03	Professional Standards and Development
The Corporation shall be responsible for a continuous inservice program focuses on the needs of the Health Services Branch. In this regard, the Corporation shall assist each Certified Occupational Health Nurse and permanent part-time nurse in her efforts to*R'eep h'et* Certification current by making available 75 hours of continuing education over a five (5Jyear period, in conformity with the continuing education criteria set down by the American Board of Occupational Health Nurses and the Canadian Council for Occupational Health.
38.04	It is recognized and agreed that nurses function within the framework of the Canadian Nurses Association Code of Ethics.
47
ARTICLE 39	DESPATCHERS ONLY
39.01	Despatchers will not be required to do clerical work, not associated with their normal job functions, that will interfere with the proper handling of their trains.
39.02	Despatchers will not be required to issue train orders to any unqualified person except in cases of emergency.
39.03	Despatchers will only be required to call train crews in cases of emergency.
ARTICLE 40	JOB POSTINGS
40.01	Management agrees to inform the Union whenever a job vacancy of a permanent nature occurs in any of the job classifications within the bargaining unit as listed in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certification Order.
40.02	Where a job vacancy of a permanent nature occurs in any surface job classification or in the position of methane de-^i gassing supervision, a job vacancy notice stating the requirevs1^ qualifications and other pertinent information will be posted by'*' Management. The job posting will call for applications from current members of the bargaining unit, it will be posted for a five day period at the worksite where the vacancy exists in order that interested supervisory personnel in the bargaining unit at the worksite where the vacancy exists may apply for the same.
40.03	Should there be no successful applicantfrom the worksite where the vacancy exists, the Corporation shall post the job vacancy notice at all work sites for an additional five (5) day period for CUPE 2046.
40.04	When a vacancy in an underground supervisory position isaboutto be filled by the permanentappointment of a non-bargaining unit member to the bargaining unit, management will advise the site representatives of CUPE 2046 of its intentions so that they may request, if they so desire, that consideration be
48
given to the transfer of an existing bargaining unit member(s) into the vacancy which isaboutto be filled.
ARTICLE 41	SALARIES
41.01	Effective January 1,1989, 4% lump sum paymenton gross earningsfor the year 1989.
Effective January 1,1990, all basic rates of pay are increased by 4%.
Effective January 1, 1991, all basic rates of pay are increased by 5,0%
All classifications will be paid a supervisory premium of $2.00 per shift worked.
ARTICLE 42	OBLIGATIONS
42.01	All provisions and terms cf this Agreement are hereby mutual agreed to by and between the Cape Breton Development Corporation and all the employees of Local 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees, and signed by the Representative of the parties hereto, who have been duly authorized to execute the same on behalf of Local 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees.
42.02	The fulfilment cf this Agreement and that of any subsequent joint agreements entered into is guaranteed by the Canadian Union of Public Employees, the Officers of Local 2046 and the Operators, and it is their duty to see that all such agreements are carried out both in the letter and in the spirit.
ARTICLE 43 NEGOTIATION DURING TERM OF AGREEMENT
43.01	1 is agreed during the term of this Agreement, to the extent Federal Legislation permits, and upon written application by the Union, the parties will convene meetings for the purpose
49
of renegotiationof wages and fringe benefits.
ARTICLE 44	DURATION
44.01	This agreement shall remain infull force and effect forthe neriod January 1. 1989. to December 31.1992. and shall be renewed automatically from year to year thereafter, unless one of the patties gives to the other party, within 90 days of the expiry date of the agreement, notice of its intentionto terminate or seek amendments to this agreement. After receipt of such notice, both patties shall meet for the purpose of negotiating amendments to this agreement. During the negotiating period, this agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Signed on behalf of
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
CANADIAN UNION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES- LOCAL2046
Appendix A
GROUP INSURANCE
,"7 2~'
Group Life Insurance ^y^y Aoc. Death & Dismemberimefit Retired Life Ins (Employee) DependentLife Ins -Wife 'ly^, - Child
Jan 1/90 Jan 1/91 Jan 1/92
ox i 023 axy
21.000	22,500	23,500
21.000	22,500	23,500
3,000	3,500	4,000
2,500	2,500	2,500
1,250	1,250	1,250
1

Hospital
Private Room Accommodation Out-Patient Charges$25.00
Ambulance	$40.00 per Insurance Year
|^Eye Care
January 1, 1990 (Frames, and lenses once every two years to maximum of $125.00). January 1,1991 increaseto $150.00.
Prescription Drugs:
The maximum per person in any insurance year for analgesics, hypnotics, sedatives, and tranquilizers shall be increased to $300.00. If, however, due to extenuating medical circumstances, this amount is insufficient, the carrier will, on application, extend the maximum amount.
Diabetic and Colostomy Supplies:
Eligible employees will receive diabetic and colostomy supplies under the terms of the Group Insurance Policy in effect on the date of ratification.
Monthly Income Insurance:
60% of insured earnings at date of disability reduced by income from other sources. Maximum monthly payment is $1,500.
51
Dental Care;

Employees will be provided a Corporation paid basic dental care plan. This coverage includes spouse and dependent children. The cost of the dental plan to the employer will not exceed $13.00 per month per eligible employee. The amount covered by the Corporation dental plan, after the normal deductible, will match dentists' fee in the current year as follows: January 1, 1990 - $700. per year; January 1, 1991, • $800. per year; January 1, 1992 - $900 per year.
The cost of the Insurance and Welfare Benefits Plan (excluding Dental Care Plan) will continue on a shared 60% -40% em-ployer/employee basis.
The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Group Insurance Plan. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the content of the insurance contract between Great West Life Assurance Company and the Cape Breton Development Corporation.
APPENDIX B
ADJUSTMENT OF RATES
The following method for the adjustment of rates will apply during the life of this Agreement and will expire at the expiration of the Agreement.
1,	All upward adjustmentswill be effectivefrom January 1, 1990, if memorandum is signed priorto that date.
2,	Incumbents who have been placed in positions at their request or asa result of selectionfrom job postings will have rates reduced as of February 1, 1990.
3,	Incumbents other than those covered in (2) above will retain their current salary until the rate for the position exceeds their current salary from which point their salary will increase as per the increase in rates. This will apply to former RCTC members as well.
52
4.	While those covered by (3) above are waiting for the rate for their position to exceed their current salary they will be paid lump sums equal to the negotiated percentage salary increases for the period. These payments will be calculated on actual earnings exclusive of premiums and incentive bonuses and will be paid quarterly.
SCHEDULE OF RATES
CANADIAN UNION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES- LOCAL2046
Jan. 1 / 89
Area Supervisor 767, Prod. Supervisor'A 732 Const/Degass Supvr. 716 Elect. Const. Supvr.
Line Crew Ironworker Supvr.
Const. Supvr. Carptry Build. Supt. 2 Sites Prod. Supvr. 'B'
Dev. Supvr.
Remote Mon. Contr.
Const. Supvr.
Ch Mech. Supr.-VJCPP716. Ch Instr. Supr-VJCCP 716. Railway Despatchers Mech. Supvr. A'
Wall Setup & St. Supr.
Elect. Supvr.-Collry. (Underground Only)
Supvr. 'A-Cent Shops Mech. Supvr. 'B'
Shop Foreman Collry. Transpt. Supvr.
Mat. Coord.-Lingan Maint. planner Gen. Supvr.-VJCCP Car Shop Supvr.
716
716
716,
716,
716.
716.
716.
716.
716.
716,
716.
716.
701.
701.
701.
701.
701.
701.
701.
701
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
,00
,00
00
Jan 1/90 4.0%
797.63 761.28
744.64
744.64
744.64
744.64
744.64
744.64
744.64
744.64
744.64
744.64
744.64
744.64
744.64
744.64
744.64
729.04
729.04
729.04
729.04
729.04
729.04
729.04
729.04
Jan 1/91 Jan 1/92
4.0%
829.59
791.93
791.93
791.93
791.93
791.93
791.93
774.43
774.43
774.43
774.43
774.43
774.43
774.43
774.43
774.43
774.43
758.20
758.20
758.20
758.20
758.20
758.20
758.20
758.20
5.0%
871.07
831.32
831.32
831.32
831.32
831.32
831.32
813.15
813.15
813.15
813.15
813.15
813.15
813.15
813.15
813.15
813.15
813.15
796.11
796.11
796.11
796.11
796.11
796.11
POSITION
Loco, shop Supvr. 701.00 Supvr. Mobile Trans. 701.00 Supvr. 'B'-C Shops 686.00 Sfce. Foreman Collry. 686.00 Mine Rescue Supvr. 686.00 Supvr. Invtry. Cont. 686.00 Build. Supt.-1 Site 686.00 Section Foreman 668.00 Gen. Foreman (Stores)668.00 Pier Foreman* 668.00 LBC Supervisors 668.00 Suprv. Accts. Pay. 661.00 Head Nurse	661.00
Whse. Foreman 639.00 Nurse	593.00
Security Guard 562.00 * Rate includes consideration for
729.04	758.20	796.11
729.04	758.20	796.11
713.44	741.98	796.11
713.44	741.98	779.08
713.44	741.98	779.08
713.44	741,98	779.08
713.44	741.98	779.08
694.72	722.51	758.63
694.72	722.51	758.63
694.72	722.51	758.63
694.72	722.51	758.63
687.44	714.94	750.68
687.44	714.94	750.68
664.56	691.14	725.70
616.72	641.39	673.46
584.48	607.86	638.25
documenting ships.
The following classification rates will be increased to the $732.00 equivalent rate (as adjusted by this agreement) on January 1,1991.
Construction/ Degassing Electrical Construction IronworkersSupetvisor Construction Supervisor- Carpentry Building Superintendent- Two Sites Maintenance Supervisor- Pier
The following classification rate will be increasedto the $716.00 equivalent rate (as adjusted by this agreement) on January 1, 1992.
Supervisor'A - Central Shops
The following classification rate will be increasedto the $701.00 equivalent rate (as adjusted by this agreement) on January 1, 1992.
supervisor's' - Central Shops
54
APPENDIX'C'
COLLIERYSUPERVISOR“A" AND"B" RATES
Mechanical Supervisor *A' rate would be paid when the supervisor is assigned the direct responsibility of maintenance and installation of production equipment such as wall face equip mentand main belt line. Mechanical Supervisor'B" rate would be paid when the supervisor is assigned as a general mechanical supervisor for the whole mine and may at times be involved in repair of production equipment at various areas of the mine. He could be second supervisor when a supervisor receiving the "A' rate is also working.
Construction Supervisor "A' rate would cover construction supervisors in the collieries, such as Prince, No. 26 and Lingan. Construction Supervisor"B" rate would be employed in 1A and 1 B airways where basic airway maintenance is carried out. Also, if at some point in time, a second construction supervisor was required at the major operations, the second supervisor would be a Construction Supervisor "8' rate.
Production Supervisor "A' rate would be a full fledged production supervisor capable of running the whole wall face section. Production Supervisor “B“ rate would be a new supervisor in the section who would require some assistance from the other supervisor in the section. Upon permanent assignment to a production wall face, the supervisor shall be paid the Supervisor "B“ rate. After working 90 starts as such, the supervisor shall be promoted to the Production Supervisor "A' rate. Also, anybody filling in would be a Supervisors" rate.
November3,1981
55
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 1
Mr. Gerald O'Neil President, CUPE 3518 Thomas Street New Waterford, N.S. B1H2C7
Dear Sir:
Re: Banking of Overtime
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto regardingthe above-noted subject.
The Corporation hereby agrees to allow members of the CUPE 2046 bargaining unitto bank overtime hours worked for the purpose of taking time off in lieu of overtime payment under the following conditions:-
1.	Overtime to be banked must be approved on the same basis as overtime to be paid.
2.	The maximum amount of overtime that can be banked at any time isforty (40) hours.
3.	Banked overtime must be taken as time off within ninety (90) days of having accumulatedthe 40 hour maximum.
4.	Requests to take time off for banked overtime must be made two weeks in advance of the time to be taken off and must be at a time agreeable to Management.
5.	This offer of an overtime banking arrangement will be considered as a trial agreement and will be subject to cancellation or revision by Managementonthe issuing of a 30-day noticetothe Union.
56
If you concur with the above, please so indicate in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,
R.W. MacKenzie
Vice President, Human Resources
I Concur
G. O'Neil, President CUPE
57
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 2
Mr. Gerard O’Neil President CUPE, Local2046 337 Welton Street Sydney, Nova Scotia
Dear Sir:
Re: Incentive Plan Coverage
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto during negotiations on the above-mentioned matter.
An employee occupying, on a permanent basis, a job classification coming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit (CUPE 2046), as described in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certification Order dated February 3, 1978, and Order No. 661 dated November27, 1987, will, subjectto the terms and conditions of the Corporation's Incentive Plan, continue to be eligible for coverage under the said Plan during the term of the Collective Agreement between the parties dated on January 1, 1989.
If you concur with the above, please so indicate in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,	I Concur:
R.W, MacKenzie	Gerald O'Neil
Vice-president,	President, CUPE 2046
Human Resources
58
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3
May 1,1987
Mr. Lonnie Grant Chairman
Rail Canada Traffic Controllers Dear Mr. Grant:
Re: NewSvstem of Traffic Control- Devco Railway
The Corporation intends to change its method of traffic control on the Devco Railway. Within sixty (60) days of ratification a Joint Union- Management Task Force will be organized to develop the new system. The members of the Task Force will be selected equally from the bargaining unit and from Management of the Railway.
The system will be submitted to the C.T.C. for approval. Following C.T.C approval, the Task Force will assist in the implementation of the system.
The existing method of work and operationswill not be changed until the new system is approved by the C.T.C. Should revision to the traffic control system necessitate a reduction in the number of positions, no involuntary lay-off measures will be employed by the Corporation. Any work force reduction will be carried out through attrition.
Yours truly,
William C. MacLellan General Manager, Transportation
59
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 4
November. 1985
Mr. John Boyd
President, Local 2046
Canadian Union of Public Employees
337 Welton Street
Sydney, N.S,
B1 P5S6
Dear Mr. Boyd:
RE: ARTICLE 6.02
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the patties signatory hereto during negotiations.
An employee occupying on a permanent basis a job classification coming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit (C.U.P.E., Local 2046) as described in the C.L.R.B. Certification Order dated February 3, 1978, will exercise the full authority and responsibility required by the act cf supervision.
Solely for the purpose of clarifying Article 6.02 of the Collective Agreement, and without limiting the generality thereof, the Union and the Corporation agree that the customary duties and responsibilities as a supervisor referred to in said Article 6.02 include:
~ ensuring compliance with legislation and the Corporation's safety policy, standard procedures and practice;
~ directing and controlling the workforce including the administration of corrective discipline and the monitoring of absences from work; and
— meetingthe production requirementsof the Corporation in a cost effective manner.
60
The Corporation and the union will meet within one month cf the signing cf an amended Collective Agreement to discuss matters cf relevance with regard to this letter of understanding.
Yours truly,
W. A. Gouthro Director of Employee Relations
I concur,
John Boyd President, Local 2046 CUPE
61
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 5
November 3, 1981
Mr, James Crosby
National Representative
Canadian Union of Public Employees
337 Welton Street
Sydney, N.S.
RE: TWO CONSECUTIVE DAYS OFF IN EACH STANDARD WORK WEEK
Dear Mr. Crosby:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date, between the patties signatory hereto, to the effect that the Corporation recognizesthe desirability of granting employees two (2) consecutive days off in each work week, whenever possible, provided a sufficient number of supervisors are available in order that operational requirements can be efficiently and economically met.
lf you agree with the foregoing, please indicate in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,
Carl Turner,
Vice-president, Human Resources I concur,
James Crosby
National Representative
Canadian Union of Public Employees
62
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 6
November 3. 1981
Mr. James Crosby National Representative Canadian Union of Public Employees 337 Welton Street Sydney, N.S.
RE: SECURITY GUARDS
Dear Mr. Crosby:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date respecting Article 26.03, as contained in Conciliation Commissioner Spencer's "Recommendation for Settlement", to the effect that notwithstanding the Corporation's agreement to delete this provision, it must be abundantly clear that this in no way constitutes a waiver cf the Corporation's rights to protect its properly and goods at any time within the bounds of the law.
Please indicate your concurrence in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,	I concur
Carl Turner Vice-President, Human Resources
James Crosby National Representative Canadian Union of Public Employees
63
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 7
November3,1981
Mr. James Crosby
National Representative
Canadian Union of Public Employees
337 Welton Street
Sydney, N.S.
DearMr. Crosby:
R E ACCIDENTS AND ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION This letter will confirm the understanding reached, between the parties signatory hereto, during negotiations on the above mentioned matter.
In order to provide a work safe and efficient operation, it is desirable to reduce the incidence of injuries at the work place. To that end, the Union will give its utmost cooperation to the Corporation in any program designed to reach this goal through effective accident investigation and safe work programs to improve our current position.
f you concur with the above, please indicate in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,
CarlTurner
Vice-president. Human Resources
I concur
James Crosby
National Representative
Canadian Union of Public Employees
64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 8
1989-11 -29
Mr. Gerard O'Neill
President
C.U.P.E.
3518 Thomas Street New Waterford, Nova Scotia B1 H2C7
Dear Mr. O'Neill
RE: EARLY RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PLAN
This letter confirms the understanding reached today between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matters.	^
The Corporation agrees that if further workforce reductions are required during the term of this agreemeTrfnTwill provide an Early Retirement Incentive Program (E.R.I.P.). The goal of this program is to achieve the workforce reductions on a voluntary basis and thereby reduce the need for displacement of other employees.
Early Retirement Incentive Plan Eligibility Factors
All employees of the Corporation represented by the Canadian Union of Public Employees shall be considered on the basis of a points factor system. An employees total points will be determined by adding their current age to the number of years of continued service with the Corporation. The Corporation will determine the eligible point level based on the number of surplus employees, but in no circumstances will the point level be set at less than seventy-five (75).
The calculation of continuous service, for those employees referred to above who were formerly employed at the
65
tlement, with greater service taking preference in the event of equal points.
Benefit Level and Other Requirements
The current maximum allowable benefit under the E.R.I.P. is $1,521.21 per month and the benefit level will be indexed annually on May1 using the formulae applicable to other Corporation pension plans. Before receiving any benefit under the E.R.I.P., all approved applicants will be required to apply for and exhaust all Unemploymentlnsurance Benefitsto which they are entitled. While in receipt of U.I.C. benefits, applicants will receive the Supplementary Unemployment Benefits as per the Collective Agreement. On exhaustion of the U.I.C. benefits. E.R.I.P. members will be required to apply for disability benefits under the Canada Pension Plan and to complete the C.C.P. form 'Authorization to Communicate information". Employees entitledto receive C.C.P. disability benefits shall receive a maximum monthly allowance of $925.65 (also indexed annually). Those persons who do not receive disability benefits under C.C.P. will receive the maximum benefit of $1,521.51 per month. Where circumstances permit and approved applicants exercise their option to receive a reduced retirement benefit under the Canada Pension Plan or the Corporation's Contributory Pension Plan, They will not have their E.R.I.P. paymentsa reduced by any amount related to these pensions. All approved applicants will have their benefit from the Corporation reduced on a dollar for dollar basis for any Automatic Assumption pay-mentthey are receiving in excess of $250.00 per month.
Persons on the E.R.I.P. Program will be eligible to purchase coal at the rate specified in the Agreement for preretirement Leave pensioners.
Those persons under the age 55 who are placed on the Plan will have their monthly benefit reduced for every year by which their age is less than 55 on the same basis as the Canada Pension Plan is reduced for early retirement. This
66
reduced benefit will be indexed on the same basis as the maximum payable benefit.
The benefit will be payable until the employee reaches reaches65 years of age when normal retirement benefits will apply.
Group Plan Benefits:
All group health benefits (excluding dental) will remain in force until age 65. Life insurance coverage will be reduced to $5,000 until age 65,
Terms and Conditions:
In addition to those set forth above, the following terms and conditions shall apply to the Corporation's offer herin to establish an E.R.I.P.
(1)	The Union agrees with the Corporation that there will be no additions to the bargaining unit to replace people who accept the E.R.I.P., that managment has the right to re-assign remaining members of the bargaining unit to perform the work required, and that, if necessary, such re-assignment may entail the reclassification of jobs. The Corporation will make such determinations in consultation with the bargaining unit.
(2)	New job classifications created pursuant to (1) above will be subject to the negotiation of wage rates during the terms of the agreement.
General
In as much as the E.R.I.P. is intended to minimize the impact of the termination of employment of employees, the benefits under these programs shall be deemed the maximum which might otherwise be available under provisions of any adjustment program pursuant to sections 214 to 226 of the Canada Labour Code, which sections, for the purposes of early retirement incentives, shall not apply in respect of employees in the bargaining unit.
67
Yours sincerely,
R, W. MacKenzie Vice-President Human Resources
I agree,
Gerard O'Neill President
Canadian Union of Public Employees