CAPE BRETON
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION COAL DIVISION
DISTRICT NO. 26 UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
Effective
January t, 1989 to December 31,1992
4M 2 ? 1991
00182(03)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Purpose .................................................
Recognition .............................................
Article 1 -- Production Standards........................
Article 2 -- Security of Employment .....................
Article 3 — Regularity of Work ..........................
Article 4 — Steady Work Bonus ...........................
Article 5 -- Hours of Work, Payment for Overtime and
Shift Premiums.............................
Article 6 —• Shift Cancellation .........................
Article 7 — Safety and Health ...........................
Article 8 — Safety Apparel ..............................
Article 9 — No Stoppage of Work .........................
Article 10 - Method of Settling Disputes ................
Article 11 — Union Officers & Comm. Members .............
Article 12 — Hiring, Discharge & Time to be paid for ....
Article 13 — Temporary Assignments.......................
Articlel 4 — In Case Men Refuse to Continue at Work
Because of a Grievance .....................
Article 15 — No Grievance to be taken up when Mine is
Idle in Violation of Agreement .............
Article 16 — Re-Employment of Officers ..................
Article 17 — Maintenance Men During Suspension of
Mining or Work in Related Departments.......
Article 18 — Changes of Agreement........................
Article 19 — New Work ...................................
Article 20 — Technological Change .......................
Article 21 — Deaths and Funerals.........................
Article 22 — Violation of Agreement .....................
Article 23 — Preparation of Coal.........................
Article 24 -- Price of Workmen’s Coal ...................
Article 25 — Seniority ..................................
Article 26 — Cancelled
Article 27 — Vacation with Pay Plan .....................
Article 28 — Union Security .............................
Article 29 — Payment for Statutory Holidays .............
Article 30 — Group Insurance ............................
5
5
6
6
7
8
9
13
13
15
15
15
18
19
21
22
22
22
23
24
24
25
25
27
27
27
27
35
35
36
38
2
Article 31 — Pensions .................................... 38
Article 32 - Retirement Allowance ........................ 38
Article 33	—	Death Benefit for Pensioners ..... 39
Article 34	—	Supplementary Unemployment
Benefit ............................................ 39
Article 35	—	Pro-Retirement Plan .............. 40
Article 36	— Rates of Pay ................................... 40
Article 37	- Call Back Pay ................................... 42
Article 38	—	Hand Tools .....................   42
Article 39	—	Production Incentive Plan ........ 42
Article 40	—	Payment for taking Injured	Mon out of Mine . 43
Article 41	--	Training Programs ................ 43
Article 42	—	Longwal! Continuous Mining	Faces . 43
Article 43	—	Alcoholism and Drug Addiction .... 44
Article 44	-	General — Cancelled
Article 45	—	Obligations ...................... 44
Article 46 Security Guards ............................... 44
Article 47 -Cancelled Article 48 — Cancelled Article 49 Cancelled Article 50	—	Cancelled
Article 51	— Bereavement Leave ................................... 45
Article 52	—	Jury /Witness Duty ............... 45
Article 53	—	Apprenticeship Training .......... 46
Article 54 — Terms of Agreement & Provision	for	Renewal . . ,./48
Addendum “A’ ..................................................... 49
Addendum "B* ..................................................... 49
Appendix 1 - Schedule of Group Insurance	benefits ................ 50
Appendix 2 — Pension Benefits .................................... 52
Appendix 3 — Pro-Retirement Leave Plan ........................... 55
Appendix 4 — Vacation with Pay ................................... 60
Rate Schedule - Surface .................................. 64
Rate Schedule •- Colliery Underground .................... 65
Rate	Schedule	—	Mine Rescue ................................... 70
Rate	Schedule	—	Central Warehouse ............................. 70
Rate	Schedule	—	Stores and Transportation	70
Rate	Schedule	—	Central Shops and Construction ................ 71
Rate	Schedule	-	Victoria Junction Coal Preparation	Plant	..	74
Rate Schedule International Pier ......................... 75
3
Rate Schedule — Security .........
Rate Schedule — Railway Section
Letter of Understanding # 1 ......
Letter of Understanding # 2 ......
Letter of Understanding # 3 ......
Letter of Understanding # 4 ......
Letter of Understanding # 5 ......
Letter of Understanding # 6 ......
Letter of Understanding # 7 ......
Letter of Understanding # 8
Letter of Understanding # 9 ......
Letter of Understanding #10 Letter of Understanding #11
Letter of Understanding # 12 .....
Letter of Understanding #1 3......
Letter of Understanding # 14 Letter of Understanding #15 ......
76
76
78
79
80
82
83
84
85
86
88
89
so
91
92
94
95
4
Purpose
1 .1The Corporation and the Union agree that the purpose of this Collective Agreement is to promote and maintain a sound and harmonious relationship between the Corporation and its employees covered by the agreement and to set forth herein rates of pay and other conditions of employment, as well as to provide the machinery for prompt settlement of grievances arising between the parties during the term of this Agreement.
1.2	In the event that the provisions of the Agreement do not meet the minimum standards provided under the Canada Labour Code, then the Code will take precedence.
1 .3This agreementor any custom, condition, or district agreement cannot contravene any Federal or Provincial laws.
1.4 The Corporation and the Union further agree -Whereas the Cape Breton Development Corporation was set up because of the long and severe decline of the coal industry in Cape Breton:
and whereas Devco and District No. 26 of the United Mine Workers of America agree that the decline can now be stopped, but to achieve this will require greatly increased productivity as a basis for reducing the operating losses paid by the Treasury of Canada and thereby justifying the investment of federal funds in the maintenance, improvement and development of mines: and whereas Devco and the Union share the objective of improving wagesand working conditionsto the maximum extent compatible with security of employment:
and whereas Devco and the Union recognize that such security of employment depends on good working practices to Utilize machinery efficiently, enhance safety and yield high productivity
Therefore Devco and the Union make the following agreement.
Recognition
1. The Cape Breton Development Corporation recognizes District No. 26 United Mine Workers of America as sole bargaining agent
5
for all employees coming under the scope of the Certification Notice issued September 30, 1987, by the Canada Labour Relations Board, and which is deemed to be now covered by the Canada Labour Code, Part 1, in accordance with the Act to establish the Cape Breton Development Corporation assented to on July 7, 1967.
2. The Union agrees to fully support and cooperate with the Corporation in its efforts to bring about and to maintain the efficient use of all resources in the operations, which include manpower, machinery, and materials. In this respect the Union will support and cooperate with the Corporation and its Industrial Engineering Program in all electrical and mechanical maintenance and installation operations, surface operations and the conducting of utilization studies on mining methods and machinery, haulage systems and surface and underground service equipment,
This Article will replace current Articles 26 and 44.
ARTICLE 1	PRODUCTION STANDARDS
Devco and the Union are united in recognizing that the maintenance of employment with good wages depends on a large improvement in the productivity of the Industry.
The Union agrees that the attainment of reasonable production standards is vital to the ability of Devco to provide security of employment and good wages, and undertakes to cooperate in every reasonable effort to attain and improve upon such production
ARTICLE 2	SECURITY OF EMPLOYMENT
T
No man who was on the books of Devco on 1 $t August, 1968 will be removed from the books unless he is placed on the PreRetirement Leave Plan or offered reasonable alternative employment, subject to the following conditions.
The above undertaking in no way limits the right of Devco, because of its responsibility for the safe and efficient conduct of operations, to suspend or dismiss any man for just cause.
6
The above undertaking in no way qualifies the responsibility of Devco temporarily to reduce or suspend a particular operation or part of an operation if such action is necessary to the satisfactory conduct and development of the mining operations as a whole within the funds provided by the Parliament of Canada.
The above undertaking in no way qualifies the right of Devco to lay off men if abnormal circumstancesso require, but Devcowiil make every reasonable effortto ensure that afull forty hourswork in each week is available to all men who comply with the rules of regular attendance described in the next clause.
ARTICLE 3	REGULARITY OF WORK
3.1	Devco and the Union agree that conscientious and regular work is essential to the agreed objectives of maintaining employment at good wages, and both parties therefore recognize that absenteeism is a serious obstacle to their objectives.
3.2	Accordingly, Devco and the Union agree that it is a condition of continued employment that no man will be absent from a rostered shift, other than for reasons (such as compensable accident or welfare) already known to Devco, unless he gives the Colliery General Manager’s office notice of his intended absence, along with a satisfactory reason for same at least two hours before the starting time of the rostered shift,
3.3	A man who has been absent, for any reason other than one wherethe precise period ofthe absence was arranged in advance, must ensure that the Colliery Manager’s office is informed of his intended return to work at least two hours before the starting time of the shift and if such notice has not been given he will be sent home.
3.4	When an employee has been absent from work for ten (10) or more working days due to injury or illness (either occupational or non-occupational) he must give notice of intention to return to work in accordance with the foregoing paragraph and in addition he shall report in person to the General Manager or his designate and provide satisfactory medical evidence of illness/injury and fitness to return to work.
3.5	An employee shall not be classified as absentee when:
(a)	He has complied with the provisions of Clause 3.2 above.
(b)	An investigation by management of a case of absent employee(s) discloses that the employee had a justifiable reason.
3.6	Corrective Procedures for Absenteeism
Interview and written warning Interview and written warning interview and one (1) days suspension with pay - confirmed in writing. Dismissal from the employ of the Corporation.
3.7	Each two (2) days an employee is absent without a satisfactory reason will be dealt with as a separate offense. The two (2) days referred to in this Clause need not necessarily be consecutive days.
3.8	An employee who is absent without leave for eight (8) or more rostered shins shall be notified by Registered Letter to his last known address that unless he reports to the Manager’s Office withintwo (2) days of receipt of such letter his employmentwith the Corporation shall be terminated.
3.9 It is clearly understood that, should an employee have a clear record for a twelve (12) month period between first offense and second offense or second offense and third offense or after the third offense, his record shall be considered clear.
ARTICLE 4	STEADY WORK BONUS
First Offense Second Offense Third Offense
Fourth Offense
(a)	After one years continuous service with the Corporation, an employee qualified to receive 20 days vacation pay will, if he has worked all his rostered shifts but20, be paid a work bonus equivalent to one days pay at his regular datal classification rate.
(b)	After five years continuous servicewith the Corporation, an employee qualified to receive 20 days vacation pay will, if he has
8
worked all his rostered shifts but 30, be paid a work bonus equivalent to 2.5 days pay at his regular data! classification rate.
(c)	After ten years continuous service with the Corporation, an employee qualified to receive 20 days vacation pay will, if he has worked all his rostered shifts but 40, be paid a work bonus equivalent to 3.5 days pay at his regular data! classification rate.
(d)	After fifteen years continuous service with the Corporation, an employee qualified to receive 20 days vacation pay will, if he has worked all his rostered shifts but 50, be paid a work bonus equivalent to 4.5 days pay at his regular datal classification rate.
(e)	Aftertwenty years continuous service with the Corporation, an employee qualified to receive 20 days vacation pay will, if he has worked all his rostered shifts but 60, be paid a work bonus equivalent to 5 days pay at his regular datal classification rate.
(i)	Rostered shifts actually worked for the purpose of steady work bonus shall be calculated from January 1 to December 31 each year and the work bonus shall bo paid in the second pay period following April 1 st of the following year.
(ii)	The closing of a mine or section of a mine by management for reasons outside the employees control for a period of up to six months shall not affect his rights to receive the steady work bonus if he otherwise qualifies and was on layoff and was unable to follow his regular schedule.
(f)	An employee summoned for jury duty and who is required to losetimefrom his regular rostered shift(s) as a result of his performance thereof will be deemed to have worked such regularly rostered shift(s) for the purposes of the calculation of his steady work bonus,
ARTICLE 5	HOURS OF WORK, PAYMENT FOR
OVERTIME, AND SHIFT PREMIUMS
5A.Hours of Work
5a.1 Every employee conditioned to this agreement shall comply
9
with the provisions of the Canada Labour Code
5a.2 The standard hours of work of each employee shall not exceed eight hours a day for five days a week and Management will provide a roster of shifts to be worked. A roster board will be posted at each operational unit which will specify the five normal shifts that each employee will work along with his two scheduled days off in a particuiarweek. Theemployees five shifts may beany five in a week of seven days. This roster board will be so updated as to normally give each employee a weeks notice of his specific shift roster for the following weeks.
5a.3 The maximum hours of work of each employee shall not exceed forty-eight in a week. Payment for hours worked in excess of the standard hours of 40 shall be at the rate of one and one-half times the employees regular rate.
5a.4 The maximum hours of work of each employee in a week as prescribed in Paragraph 5a.3 may be exceeded in cases of :
(a)	accident to machinery, equipment, plant or persons
(b)	urgent and essential work to be done to machinery, equipment, or plant, or
(c)	other unforeseen or unpreventable circumstances.
5a.5 The length of a shift otherthan an underground shift shall be eight hours and management will clearly post shift starting and finishing times and provide, operate and maintain a system of timekeeping. It will be the responsibility of each employee to comply with the timekeeping system requirements and be at his place of work by the established shift starting time and not leave his place of work until the end of the shift.
5a,6 The length of an underground shift will be eight hours from portal to portal. Management will clearly post shift starting and finishing times. The last conveyance will leave the surface at the shift starting time and it will be the responsibility of the employee to be enroute to his work place below the portal at this time. Management will provide facilities for employees to normally return to the portal at the end of the eight-hour shift
10
5a.7 There will be no travelling facilities provided within the specific eight-hour shift other than those provided under Paragraph 5a,6 except for authorized personnel or in case of an emergency.
5a.8 In respect of underground employees, management will provide, operate and maintain a timekeeping system, it will be the responsibility of each employee to comply with the timekeeping system requirements. In computing time, the specified shift starting time will be the base and the actual time of return to the portal will be used as the finishing time. Any timeworked in excess of eight hoursshall bepaidfor at the rateoftime andone-half ofthe employees datal rate on the basis of the nearest one-quarter of an hour.
5a.9 Management reserves the right to send men home who have not reported according to the conditions of Paragraph 5a.5 in respect of surface men and Paragraph 5a,6 in respect of underground men.
5a. 10 During each eight-hour shift, a surface employee is entitled to a lunch break of one period of twenty minutes, at a time agreed between Management and Officers of the local Union and should be taken at his place of work and at a time so as to not prejudice the overall efficiency of the operation. An underground employee will take a lunch break at his place of work and at a time so as to not prejudice the overall efficiency of the operation.
5a. 11 Every employee who agrees to a request by Management to work a shift outside his published roster and then subsequently fails to report for the shift shall be subject to the penalties as set forth in Article 3 of the Collective Agreement.
5a.12 Management shall not be held responsible for notifying employees that overtime shift/hours are available if the employee(s) has not provided the Corporation with his correct telephone number or cannot be reached at that number.
5a, 13 When Management requests an employee to work beyond the end of his normal shift to overcome an emergency position, the request will be given in writing by the supervisor or a superior official.
11
5a,14 Any employee requested to work a shift outside his published roster will be issued with a written note from his superior or a superior official.
5a.15 Under no circumstances will overtime or additional shifts be paid to employees who cannot submit the written authority for it. Protection to the employee against loss of written authority will be provided by the supervisor or superior official having a duplicate.
5B. Shift Premiums
5b.1 Employees will be paicKO.1750 cents for rostered hours worked between 1500 hours and 2300 hours, and 0.3500 cents for rostered hours worked between 2300 hours and 0700 hours.
5b.2 Shift differentials shall not apply to -
1.	Overtime of less than four (4) hours
2.	The calculation of holiday and vacation pay.
3.	Regular rostered day shift hours.
4.	Overtime shall not be calculated on shift differentials.
5C. Underground Premium
5c. 1 A premium of $3.00 per eight (8) hours shift shall be paid to employees underground in the Corporations Collieries.
5c.2 This underground premium shall not form part of any classification rate.
5D. Weekend Premium I
5d.1 Article 5a.2 provides for the setting up of a roster for each employee to be allocated five shifts within the seven days. For each of those shifts between 7 a.m. on Saturday to 7 a.m. on Monday for which an employee is rostered and which he worked for the full eight hours, he will receive a premium of $10.00 over and above his normal datal rate. This premium will not be taken into account in computing his overtime payment if he works more than eight hours in the weekend shift and it will not apply if the
12
weekend shift is a shift in excess of his five normal shifts for that week.
5E. Call Back Pay
5e.1 Employees called back to work on irregular hours other than immediately following or immediately prior to their regularly rostered shift shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the straight time rate or applicable overtime rate for the time worked, whichever is the greater.
5e.2 Employees who are called back to work within the meaning of Clause (5E.1) of this Article and whosubsequently work more than four (4) hours and not more than eight (8) hours will be credited with (8) hours actually worked at the premium time thereon calculated accordingly. Any time worked in excess of eight (8) hours will be paid for in accordance with the relevant terms of this Agreement.
5F. Shift Cancellation
5f.1 An employee who, while at home, is requested by management and agrees to work a non-rostered shift and then cancelled before the commencement time of the non-rostered shift shall be paid the sum of $15.00 for such cancellation.
ARTICLE 6	SHIFT CANCELLATION * 1 2
See Article 5 - F
ARTICLE 7	SAFETY AND HEALTH
(1)	It is mutually agreed that both Union and Management will cooperate to the fullest possible extent towards the prevention of accidents and the promotion of safety and health of the employees all within the frame work of Part II of the Canada Labour Code and any other applicable legislation.
(2)	In the context of the foregoing, the Corporation and the Union agree that in order to achieve high safety standards, proper attitudes must be developed by all concerned due to the primary role of the human element in any sound accident prevention
13
program.
(3)	In order to further safety and establish desirable communication to this effect a Union Advisory Safety Committee shall be set up at each mine and Auxiliary Department composed of three (3) employees having at least twelve (12) months service with the Corporation and knowledge of the conditions and practices at the respective locations. (At least one member of the Union Advisory Safety Committee must hold a valid certificate as a Mine Examiner.) The Union Advisory Safety Committee will represent the Union on the site Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee
(4)	Investigation travels on behalf of the site Joint Occupational
Health and Safety Committee shall take place monthly within the week prior to the regular monthly meeting of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee at the site. Reports on these monthly investigations will be made to the Chairman at the regularly scheduled monthly meeting. The remuneration of employees for time spent carrying out the functions of a member of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee will be in accordance with the terms of Part II of the Canada Labour Code.	^
(5)	Apart from the regular monthly investigations on behalf of the site Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee, interim investigations by the Union Advisory Safety Committee on behalf of the workmen can be made as necessary. The Union will bear the expense of such interim investigations. Investigation reports will be made on the forms supplied by the site Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee and will be presented to the Chairman of the site Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee for immediate attention. Copies of any interim reports will also be presented along with the monthly investigation reports at the monthly meeting of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee. 6
(6)	Where investigations at the sites are required on an urgent basis as a result of an emergency or other special circumstances concerning the bargaining unit, one member of the Union Advisory Safety Committee will be promptly notified and may investigate and make a report on his investigation to the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee. The union Safety Co-ordinator will also be notified and will be permitted to make an investiga-
14
tion travel. The Union will bear the expense of any investigation by the Union Safety Co-ordinator.
(7)	Monthly accident statistics will be issued by the Safety Department at each site in time for discussion at the monthly meeting of the site Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
ARTICLE 8	SAFETY APPAREL
8.1	As an added safety feature in the collieries and related departments, employees will be issued with coveralls free of charge -three pairs ayear to underground employees and two pairs a year to surface employees, It is understood and agreed by the parties to this Agreement that the safety coveralls must be worn by an employee at all times on the job.
8.2	The Corporation agrees to provide each employee with one (1) pair of low-cut leather boots or two (2) pairs of rubber boots per year. Boots which are determined to be defective by the manufacturer will be replaced at no cost to the employee.
8.3	The Corporation will also, during this same period, issue, free of charge, to each employee two (2) pairs of leather work gloves of the kind normally stocked in its warehouse.
ARTICLE 9	NO STOPPAGE OF WORK
It is distinctly understood and agreed that in case of all disputes and grievances of every nature arising under this Agreement, the operations shall continue at work pending settlement.
ARTICLE 10	METHOD OF SETTLING DISPUTES
Step One: Within fifteen (15) days of the grievance arising, the grievor will file with his supervisor a written grievance in the form attached hereto and will meet with his supervisor to discuss it. The supervisor will give his written answer within three (3) days after this first meeting. (Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays excluded).
Step Two: After receiving his supervisors reply, the grievor will have three (3) days to notify the appropriate Mine Manger (other
15
than the General Mine Manger) that he wishes to proceed further with his grievance. Within seven (7) days after such notice, the Mine Manager will meet with the grievor and his Mine Committee to try and settle the grievance. The Mine Manager may elect to have the supervisor and a Corporation Employee Relations Manager present. The Mine Manager will give his written decision within three (3) days after this second meeting.
Step Three: After receiving his Mine Managers decision, the grievor will have three (3) days to notify him that he wishes to proceed further with his grievance. Within seven (7) days after such notice, the General Mine Manager will meet with the grievor and his Mine Committee to try and settle the grievance. The Mine Committee may elect to have the appropriate Union Sub-District Board Member present. The General Mine Manager may elect to have the supervisor and a Corporation Employee Relations Manager present. The General Mine Manager will give his written decision within seven (7) days after this third meeting.
Step Four: ARBITRATION: Within fourteen (14) days after the General Mine Managers decision, it will be decided whether or not to take the grievance to arbitration. Effective as of the ratification date, any arbitration under this new grievance procedure will be conducted by a single arbitrator selected on a rotating basis from a pool of arbitrators, three nominated by the Union and three by the Corporation. Each arbitrator will, as far as practicable, examine and deal with any dispute or grievance referred to him within fifteen (15) days after the date of notice to him that the dispute or grievance exists and will render his decision or award within fifteen (15) days after the parties to the dispute have presented their respective submissions to him.
Each arbitratorwill have jurisdiction and authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of the Collective Agreement so far as will be necessary to the determination of the dispute or grievance before him. No arbitrator will have any power to alter or change in any way the provisions of the Collective Agreement orto substitute any new provision for any existing provision or to give any decision or award inconsistent with the terms and conditions ofthe Collective Agreement.
All the parties to any dispute or grievance will do all such acts and things as are necessary to enable any arbitrator to make proper
16
findings respecting the matter before him, and any arbitrator may at his discretion call such witnesses and examine such documents as he may require. All the parties will on their respective parts in all things obey, abide by, perform and keep the award and findings of an arbitrator.
No arbitrator will consider a dispute or grievance in respect of which or as a result of which any strike, lock-out, or other cessation of work exists. Any period during which any such strike, lock-out, or other cessation continues will not be considered as part of the period or periods limited under Step Four of the new grievance procedure. With respect to any grievance concerning discipline, including any grievance by an employee who has been discharged, the burden shall be on the Corporation to establish grounds for discipline.
Any party to a dispute may at any time before the findings or decision of an arbitrator make written submissions to him. An arbitrator may in his discretion at any time require any party to a dispute or grievance to make such written submissions as he may determine. An arbitrator will hold his sittings at such time and place as he may from time to time determine. The costs of any arbitration underthe new grievance procedure will be borne equally between the Union and the Corporation.
The party initiating the new grievance procedure will take each step within the time limits set, or as extended by mutual written agreement between the Union and the Corporation. Otherwise, the grievance or matter in disputewill be deemed abandoned and may not be filed as a new grievance.
It will be contrary to the spirit and intent of the new grievance procedure for any employee to attempt to or to lay any mine or section of mine idle for the purpose of forcing a settlement of any grievance.
The Corporation will have the option to decline to consider any grievance the alleged circumstances of which originated or occurred more than fifteen (15) days (Saturdays, Sundays, and Holidays excluded) prior to its presentation at Step One.
17
ARTICLE 11
UNION OFFICERS AND COMMITTEE MEMBERS
11 .1 The Corporation will recognize the Official Union Officers and Committee Members in the discharge of their duties as provided for in this agreement.
11,2The Union will provide the Corporation with a list of the Union personnel which comprises the Executive and the Officers and Committees of the various locals. Advice of any changes as and when they occur will be provided.
11.3	The Corporation recognizes that from time to time it will be necessary for employees serving as Union Officers or Committee members to leave their place of work in orderto carry out Union responsibilities provided for under this agreement on behalf of the Union. Such employees will not leave his/her work place without firstobtaining permission of his/her supervisor. The MineCommit-tee in the discharge of its duties shall, under no circumstances, go around the mine for any cause whatever unless called upon to do so either by the Mine Manager or his representative or by a miner or data! man who may have a grievance which he has been unable to settle with the Manager or his representative. It shall be mandatory however, for the Mine Manager or his representative and for the miner or data! man affected to request the Mine Committee to come to the place or places where the grievances is, at once, so that a thorough investigation can be made and an adjustment of the grievances effected if possible.
11.4	Any Union Officer or Committee Member who shall attempt to execute any local rule or procedure conflicting with any provision of this Agreement or with any provisions made in pursuance thereof shall be forthwith deposed as Union Officer or Committee Member.
11.5	Nothing in this Article shall be construed to prohibitthe Union Officers or Committee Members from looking after the matter of membership, dues, and initiation in any proper manner. 1
1 1 .6 Local Union Officers will be permitted to be absent from a regular rostered shift(s) to attend to official Union business. Such
18
employee(s) will not be termed an absentee but must furnish Management with an authorized slip from the Union verifying the absence is for official Union business but must arrange such absence in accordance with Article 3.2, 3.3.
11,7 Union Officers/Committee Members or other bargaining unit [■) members who are requested to attend meetings or investigations atthe request of Managementwill be compensated attheir normal hourly rate for rostered work hours missed as a result of such attendance.
ARTICLE 12	HIRING, DISCHARGING AND
TIME TO BE PAID FOR
(a)	MANAGEMENT: The Management of the mine and the direction of the working force is vested exclusively in the operator, and the United Mine Workers of America shall not abridge this right in accordance with the terms of this Agreement
(b)	HIRE AND DISCHARGE: The right to hire and discharge is vested exclusively in the operator, but no man shall be discharged except for sufficient cause, other than personal prejudice or activity in matters related to the United Mine Workers of America. It is not the intention of this provision to encourage the discharge of employees or refusal of employment to applicants because of prejudice or activity in matters affecting the United Mine Workers of America.
(c)	DISCHARGE AND SUSPENSION: If any employee is discharged or suspended by the Management and it is claimed that an injustice has been done him, an investigation to be conducted by the parties in the manner setforth in Article 10 shall be taken up promptly, and if decided by the Arbitration Board that an injustico has been done, the Management shall reinstate said employee and pay him full compensation for the time he has been suspended and out of employment.
(d)	When an employee has been discharged and claims that an injustice has been done him, the claim of unjusttreatment shall be made at once and the case investigated immediately, in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 10 of the Agreement, except in this case the case may bo carried directly from the Mine
19
Manager and Mine Committee to the Arbitration Board. The Arbitration Board must render its decision within seven working days of the discharge.
(e)	In order that no dispute shall arise, it is hereby agreed that the foregoing paragraph of this Article shall be construed that men shall receive the datal rate for the work at which they were employed when suspended.
(f)	No member of the United Mine Workers of America shall be denied employment, except for sufficient cause, other than personal prejudice or activity in matters affecting the United Mine Workers of America, and when an applicant for work is denied employment and it is claimed by him an injustice has been done, an investigation shall be conducted by the tribunals and in the manner set forth in Article 10 for the adjustment of grievances and shall be taken up promptly. If it is decided by the Arbitration Board that an injustice has been done, the mine management shall give employment to said applicant. The reasons assigned for not employing said applicant shall be set forth during the investigation.
It is understood and agreed that the taking up and investigation of such refused applications will take precedence over all other cases except shutdowns. It is further understood and agreed that no list shall be kept for the purpose of regulating the employment of applicants in violation of this Agreement.
(g)	The above provision of this Article shall not apply to a man who is a menace to the safety ofthe lives of himself or other employees. Neither shall the above provisions apply to an applicant who is incompetent to perform the required labour nor to men who habitually neglect their work. It is understood and agreed that there may be other justifiable causes for the refusal of employment. It is further understood and agreed that no man shall be considered as coming under the provisions of the above paragraphs who when making application for work is at the time employed elsewhere or who has an application for work pending at another mine.
(h)	It is understood and agreed that the Corporation shall select its men for each classification based upon their qualifications and
20
fitness for the work to be performed, provided, however, an applicant claiming he has been discriminated against shall have the right of appeal as provided for in paragraph (f) and (g) of this Article. Men filling in on a temporary basis, do not necessarily have right to a permanent position.
(i)	Every employee shall perform any class of work in or around the operations that the Corporation may require of them, provided they are paid the rate for such work.
ARTICLE 13
TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
13.1	An employee assigned temporarily to perform work in a classification paying a lower rate than his/her own, he/she shall be paid his/her regular rate, providing that his/her regular occupation is required in operation.
13.2	If an employee is assigned to a higher classification, he/she shall be paid the higher rate.
13.3	If any employee requests in writing and is granted a transfer to a lower rate position, he/she will be paid the lower rate from date of transfer.
13.4	Any employee who after having worked for twenty consecutive shifts at a job or jobs carrying a higher wage classification as set out in the Rate Schedule of this Agreement, shall be established at such higher classification as long as he continues to satisfactorily perform the work on the higher paid job.
13.5	The Corporation shall give each employee established at such higher wage classification job or jobs as the result of the application of above paragraph, ten working days prior written notice by registered mail of the reduction of his lower paid classification If an employee has not been given 10-day notice, he will be paid a differential for the ten days in lieu thereof equal to the difference between his established higher classification rate and the lower classification rate at which he was working.
21
ARTICLE 14	IN CASE MEN REFUSE TO CONTINUE AT
WORK BECAUSE OF A GRIEVANCE
If any man refuses to continue at work because of a grievance which has not been taken up for adjustment in the manner provided herein, and such action shall seem likely to impede the operation of the mine, the Mine Committee, when called upon by the Mine Manager, shall immediately furnish a man or men to take such vacant places, in order that the mine may continue at work. It shall be the duty of any member or members of the United Mine Workers of America, when so called upon by the Mine Manager and the Mine Committee and if competent to do the required work, immediately to take the place or places assigned to him or them in pursuance of such call.
ARTICLE 15 NO GRIEVANCE TO BE TAKEN UP WHEN
MINE IS IDLE IN VIOLATION OF AGREEMENT
Under no circumstances shall a grievance be taken up for adjustment during a suspension of work in violation of this Agreement,
ARTICLE 16	RE-EMPLOYMENT OF OFFICERS
16.01	The Corporation agrees that all men leaving their employment to accept elected or appointed positions with the United Mine Workers of America shall at the expiration of their official duties be given employment at the mine.
16.02	Leave of Absence for Full-Time Union or Public Duties
(a)	The employer recognizes the right of an employee to participate in public affairs. Therefore, upon written request, the employer shall allow leave of absence without pay or benefits so the employee may be a candidate in federal, provincial, or municipal elections.
(b)	An employee who is elected to public office, within the context of (a) of this article, shall be allowed leave of absence without loss of seniority during his term of office.
22
(c)	An employee who is elected or selected for a full-time position with the Union shall be granted leava of absence without loss of seniority.
(d)	Employees granted leave of absence under this Article must return to work within two (2) months after the expiration of such elected position or appointment.
ARTICLE 17 MAINTENANCE MEN DURING SUSPENSION OF MINING OR WORK IN RELATED DEPARTMENTS
In case of either local or general suspension of mining, either at the expiration of this Agreement or otherwise, the engineers, firemen, pumpmen, fanmen and such other maintenance men necessary to protect the mines shall not suspend work, except at the option of the Operator, but shall fully protect all the Corporations property under their care and operate fans and pumps and lower and hoist such men or supplies as may be required to protect the Corporations property and any and all coal necessary to keep up steam at the Corporations coal plants. But it is understood and agreed that the Operatorshall not ask them to hoist any coal produced by nonunion labour for sale in the market.
The Operator at his option, may retain such engineers, firemen, pumpmen, fanmen and such other maintenance men necessary to protect the mines as are required, but with the understanding that all the engineers, firemen, pumpmen, fanmen and such other-maintenance men necessary to protect the mines, who may be retained at the time of the suspension, shall be those regularly engaged in maintenance work. The Operator shall not employ officials on continuous service positions except in those circumstances where the officers of the Union have failed to comply with the foregoing provisions of this Article.
Should the interest of the engineers, firemen, pumpmen and such other maintenance men necessary to protectthe mines be directly involved in any issue at the expiration of this Agreement and any engineers, firemen, pumpmen, fanmen and such other maintenance men necessary to protect the mines, ceasework, the United Mine Workers of America shall provide competent men to perform the emergency work above cited, at the Scale price in effect at the
23
time of the suspension, subject to any subsequent settlement.
It is also understood and agreed that no operator of equipment or machinery shall leave his place of work until all equipment and machinery has been shut down in a safe and orderly manner.
ARTICLE 18	CHANGES OF AGREEMENT
(a)	It is agreed that during the life of this Agreement subjectto the Articles of this Agreement, nothing shall be done to decrease the earning power of the employee or to increase the cost of production to the Corporation; also, it is hereby understood that no custom or condition in effect at any mine, other than as are altered by this Agreement, can be changed unless mutually agreed to by both parties to the Agreement. The Corporation shall notify the District Executive of any proposed change.
(b)	Any past customs or conditions that have not been put in writing by the parties hereto within ninety (90) days of the signing date of this Collective Agreement shall not be binding on the Corporation,
(c)	Not withstanding the foregoing, any rulings of the Joint Board of Adjustments respecting “Custom and Condition” atthe several collieries and auxiliary departments, except insofar as the said ruling are in conflict with any subsequent agreements between the parties hereto, shall continue to be recognized.
ARTICLE 19
NEW WORK
When the development of a new mine is begun, during the period of this Agreement, or new machinery installed or new methods of handling the project are adopted, then the datal rate covering the labour at such new mines under such changed conditions will be the same as in other mines in the neighbourhood where similar conditions exist. Where no similar conditions exist, the datal rate will be negotiated by the District Executive and the representatives of the Corporation.
24
ARTICLE 20
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
For all purposes of the Collective Agreement, technological change shall have the meaning defined in the Canada Labour Code.
For the purpose of the technological change provisions of the Collective Agreement, an incumbent shall mean any employee with more than ten (10) years compensated service from last date of hire,
No incumbent shall be laid off from the Corporation due to technological change; provided that any incumbent, if required by the Corporation due to any technological change, shall submit to reasonable retraining by or under the auspices of the Corporation and shall accept transfer to any operating site within the Corporation.
Nothing in these provisions shall be construed as a waiver by an employee, whether incumbent or otherwise, of his right under the Canada Labour Code to make an application in respect of technological change.
ARTICLE 21	DEATH AND FUNERALS
(a)	In the event of an instantaneous death of any employee by accident at any of the Corporations producing mines, the Union will arrange for each local to canvass each of its members to contribute ten dollars ($10.00) to the widow or other designated beneficiary. Up to a maximum of $5,000, the Corporation will match 50% of the total contributions so canvassed, and tho Corporations contribution will be in addition to any life insurance coverage that may be payable. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Collective Agreement or any past practice, custom or condition, except during the shift in which the death occurs, there shall be no discontinuance or cessation of work at that producing mine on account of the death, and there shall be no closure of the mine; but the mine shall resume work as normal, on the next shift.
(b)	In case the operator elects to work the mine on the day of the funeral of the deceased, as above, or where death has resulted
25
from an accident in the mine, individual employees may, at their option, absent themselves from work forth© purpose of attending such funeral, but not otherwise.
(c)	Except in case of fatal accidents, as above, a mine shall in no instance be thrown idle because of any death or funeral.
In the case, however, of the death of any employee of the Corporation or member of his family an individual employee may, at his option, absent himself from work for the purpose of attending such funeral. but not otherwise.
(d)	Effective March 1,1973, notwithstanding anything in this article the Corporation will, subject to the terms and conditions set forth hereunder, make a compassionate lump sum payment not exceeding a total of $25,000 to the widow and wholly dependent children of any employee who is fatally injured while at his work place.
1.	The maximum sum payable to the widow shalt be $10,000 in cases where the deceased employee has no surviving widow, then the principal sum of $10,000 which would otherwise have been payable to the widow shall be made to the legal guardian, if any, for the benefit of the deceased employees wholly dependent children.
2.	The maximum sum payable in respect to wholly dependent children shall be $15,000.00 calculated on the following basis:
(a)	For each wholly dependent child $5,000 to a maximum of three children or $15,000.00.
(b) In cases where there are more than three wholly dependent children the amount per child shall be determined by dividing $15,000.00 by the total number of wholly dependent children. 3
3.	Any dispute or question which may in the future arise from the interpretation or meaning of the words; employee, fatal injury, legal guardian, workplace, widow or wholly dependent children, shall be resolved in a context as determined by the Workers Compensation Board of Nova Scotia
26
ARTICLE 22
VIOLATIQN OF AGREEMENT
No laws or rules shall be made by any Local union or group of local unions in violation of this Agreement, joint agreements to have precedence over National, District and Local Constitutions.
ARTICLE 23	PREPARATION OF COAL
The ability of the Corporation to implement tho principles set in the preamble to this agreement is very much dependent on selling clean coal.
Management will provide machinery and associated systems of work to minimize the contamination of coal with rubbish.
It is the responsibility of each individual employee to so operate the machinery and the systems to produce and load coal free of impurities.
ARTICLE 24	PRICE OF WORKMENS COAL
Eligible Employees $37.50 Pre-Retirement Leave Pensioners	$18,00
Compassionate Disability Pensioners	$18.00
Regular Pensioners $ 7.00
Current July 1/90 July 1/91 July 1/92
$42.00	$44.00
$18.00 $18.00
$46.00
$18.00
$18.00 $ 7.00
All prices quoted are for run-of-mine coal supplied at the mine or coal yard.
$18.00 $ 7.00
$18.00
$7.00
Where it is necessary to transport the coal over a railway in order to make delivery, the cost of transportation shall be added to the price.
ARTICLE 25
SENIORITY
25.1	Definitions
(a)	SENIORITY: is defined as length of service in the bargaining unit and will be determined on a bargaining unit wide basis in ac-
27
cordance with the following procedures.
(b)	ABILITY: the ability to perform the requirements of the job following the completion of a thirty (30) day trial period.
(c)	BARGAINING UNIT SENIORITY: is defined as the length of continuous service the employee now has accumulated within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit prescribed by the Canada Labour Relations Board between the United Mine Workers of America and the Cape Breton Development Corporation.
25.2	OPERATING SITES
(A)	Central Workshops and Central Warehouse Dominion Coal Yard
Transportation (Trucking and Railway)
Victoria Junction Coal Preparation Plant
International Coal Pier
Prince Colliery
Lingan Colliery
Phalen Colliery
Donkin-Morien Colliery
(B)	Any new working sites established within the jurisdiction of the Cape Breton Development Corporation and this bargaining unit shall become a part of paragraph (A).
25.3	SENIORITY GENERAL
(A)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, neither an Employees operating site seniority nor his bargaining unit seniority shall have any effect in the event of an interruption of production at operationsfor a continuous period of fourteen (14) calendar days or less, or in the event of a strike. In any such event, no layoff shall be deemed to have occurred.
(B)	At least forty-eight (48) hours priorto any temporary or permanent closure of any operating site or part thereof, or any temporary or permanent reduction in the work force for reasons other than closure, which will result in either operating site seniority or bargaining unit seniority becoming the governing factor in layoffs
28
and recalls necessitated by any such closure or reduction, Corporation management shall meet with the Union District Executive and appropriate grievance committees. The Corporation shall thereby notify the Union of the nature of the closure or reduction and provide it with the best information available at that time concerning layoff.
(C)	SENIORITY LISTS - For the purpose of determining seniority, a bargaining unit seniority list shall be maintained by the Corporation. Each bargaining unit seniority list shall show the names, check numbers, and bargaining unit and operating site seniority commencement dates of all employees of the bargaining unit employed by the Corporation. An updated bargaining unit seniority list shall be posted semi-annually at operating sites, and the Union will be provided with copies of such lists. If there is no objection by an employee to the bargaining unit seniority or operating site seniority list within tho terms of the grievance procedure within thirty (30) calendar days after posting, the list shall be deemed, conclusively to be correct.
25.4	SENIORITY EFFECT -TEMPORARY CLOSURE
(A)	in the event of a temporary closure of an operating site, or any part thereof, or in the event of a temporary reduction in the work force at an operating site or any partthereof for reasons other than closure, for a continuous period of 180 calendar days or less, employees will be laid off in reverse order of their operating site seniority and will be recalled in reverse order of layoff, to the extent that employees have the ability required for jobs available to them by operating site seniority. In any such event, an employees bargaining unit seniority shall have no effect as the governing factor in layoffs and recalls.
(B)	PERMANENT CLOSURE: Layoff and Recall
(A) The Corporation will advise Union representatives in advance of any layoffs and provide details of classifications involved, and it is understood and agreed that employees who exercise their seniority in the bumping process must also have the ability to perform the work as outlined in ability 25.1 (B) of this article 25.
29
(B) PERMANENT CLOSURE: In the event of a permanent closure of an operating site or any part thereof, or in the event of a permanent reduction of the work force at a site other than closure, employees shall be laid off in reverse order of their bargaining unit seniority.
Probationary employees will be laid off first; then permanent employees.
(1) An employee who is laid off from a classification at his/her site’ will be the most junior employee from that classification and will have the right to bump the most junior employee in any classification at that site or the most junior employee within his/her classification in the bargaining unit.
(2)	An employee bumped from a classification at a particular site will have the right to bump the most junior employee within the bargaining unit.
(3)	Employees laid off who are unable to exercise their seniority under 1 and/or 2 shall be placed in available positions at the discretion of management.
25.5	RECALLS
Before hiring from outside the bargaining unit, the Corporation shall give an opportunity on the basis of bargaining unit seniority to laid off employees with the required ability to fill job vacancies at operating sites other	than those from	which	they are	laid off.
Employees given such	opportunities shall be	recalled	to their
original operating sites on the basis of operating site seniority and training towhichever job vacancies or new positions arise atthose original operating sites. Should any such employee refuse such a recall, he shall lose his operating site seniority at his original operating site, but shall accumulate operating site seniority at his new operating site from and including his first date of recall there, and shall retain his bargaining unit seniority.
25.6	METHOD AND CONDITIONS OF RECALLTO EMPLOYMENT
(a)	Employees shall be	recalled in the	normal	manner,	by telephone. In the event that	an employee is	unable	to be reached by
telephone, a registered letter will be forwarded to the Employees
30
last address on file with the Corporation. A copy of the letter shall be sent to bis Local Union, tt shall be a condition of recall that each individual employee keep the Corporation informed of the address and telephone number of his current residence.
(b)	An employee shall be allowed fifteen (15) calendar days from the date the registered letter or notification thereof is first delivered at the employees address to report to work. Failure to report to work will result in his name being removed from the Corporations employment roll.
(c)	If however, due to reasons of geographical location, injury, illness, or having to give his present employor a specific period of notice before terminating his employment, a recalled employee unable to report to work within the fifteen (15) days, then, in such cases, Union and Management by agreement will give a reasonable period of time for such persons to report hack to work. This agreement shall be in writing, signed by both parties.
25.7	LOSS OF SENIORITY
(A)	An employee shall lose his bargaining unit and operating site seniority if:
[a)	He retires, resigns, or, while on layoff from the Corporation, refuses recall.
(b)	He does not meet the conditions of recall, pursuant to Article 25.6 (a) through (c) inclusive.
(G) He is discharged for just cause and not reinstated.
(d)	He performs work for the Corporation outside the jurisdiction of this Agreement in excess of a total of thirty (30) working days during the term of this Agreement and shall forfeit his original seniority.
NOTE: Each day is of a 24-hour duration and two shifts in a 24-hour period will be considered a working day when computing thirty (30) working days.
(B)	An employee shall lose his operating site seniority at an operating site from which he was laid off in the event that, after being laid off, he is recalled to another operating site and subsequently refuses an opportunity to return to work at his original operating site, but, he shall accumulate operating site seniority at his new
31
operating site from and including the first date of his recall there from layoff status, and shall retain his bargaining unit seniority.
25.8	ELIGIBILITY
(a)	Any new employee shall have his name and original date of hire placed on the bargaining unit seniority list and relevant operating site seniority list after he has satisfactorily completed his probationary period of ninety (90) days actually worked, including days worked in the successful completion of any Corporation entry training program.
(b)	Any employeewho has enrolled in an apprenticeship program, shall accumulate bargaining unit seniority while on said program. Any such apprentice who is at the operating site where he served all of his apprenticeship shall accumulate operating site seniority there retroactive to the first day of his apprenticeship.
(c)	Any apprentice who apprentices at more than one operating site shall be entitled to include in his operating site seniority that time served at the operating site where he completed his apprenticeship. Any apprentice who is at an operating site other than that at which he served or completed his apprenticeship, shall accumulate operating site seniority from the first day of his start at that other operating site.
(d)	Similarly, regular employees accepted for any Corporation training programs shall continue to accumulate their bargaining unit and operating site seniority while enrolled in that training.
25.9	JOB POSTING
(a)	In the event that managements actions create a new classification or create a permanent vacancy within a classification at an operating site, a notice shall be posted in the manner below to inform employees in the bargaining unit of the new job or permanent job vacancy.
(b) This notice shall be posted for a period of seven (7) working days at the operating site where the vacancy exists. The notice shall set out the job description and qualifications required for the jobs and copies of the notice shall be sent to the appropriate Union Locals.
32
(c)	If there are qualified applicants from the site where the vacancy exists, the job will be awarded to the employee with the most operating site seniority and who has the ability pursuant to article 25.1.
(d) Should there be no qualified applicants from the site where the vacancy exists, the Corporation shall post the job vacancy notice et all work sites for an additional seven (7) working days.
(e) Within twenty-one (21) calendar days of such posting, the job shall be awarded to the employee with the most bargaining unit seniority and who has the ability pursuant to Article 25.1 (b) of the seniority clause required for the job.
(f)	If there are no applicants, management has the right to place junior qualified employees(s) in vacancies.
JOB POSTINGS: Temporary Assignments (Due To Absence)
(a)	Management may assign bargaining unit employees to positions which are temporarily vacant due to employee absences for up to ninety (90) calendar days after which the job is subject to posting.
(b)	When such temporarily vacant positions are filled by way of job posting or assignment and the regular employee returns to work, all temporarily assigned employees shall return to their regular duties.
(c)	In the event any employee becomes incumbent in a temporary position under paragraph (b) above and such position becomes permanent, the position will be posted again under article 25.9, Job Posting.
TEMPORARY (Job Posting)
(a)	Where a temporary position of sixty (60) calendar days duration or longer exists, the Corporation will post such position in accordance with Article 25.9, Job Posting.
(b)	In the event any employee becomes incumbent in a temporary position under paragraph (a) above, and such position becomes permanent, the position will be posted again, as per Job Posting.
LOSS OF SENIORITY
An employee shall lose his operating site seniority thirty (30) days after he/she transfers to another site whether by job posting and/ or bumping.
33
Development and Wall Crew Deployment
Management and Union agree that the present practice at the Corporation’s Collieries of relocating entire wall crews and development crews will remain in effect. However, should a vacancy become available	within a wall	crew or	development	crew, then
such vacancy will	be posted as	per Job	Posting.
LIGHT DUTY JOBS
(a)	Management and Union will mutually agree to a number of
current regular positions as light duty jobs to be used for the placement of employees who have permanent disabilities or limitations. The Union will be provided with a list of such light duty jobs. These positions will not be subjectto job postings when they become vacant. The incumbents in these positions who are there by reason of their disabilities or limitations will only be subject to bumping if there	are no other	positions	occupied by	more junior
employees which	the bumping	employee is capable	of perform-
ing.
(b)	Management will retain the right to eliminate any or all such designated light duty positions in the event such positions become redundant as a result of tech change or automation. Management will inform the Union of any of these changes.
Agreed to on June 8th, 1990
For the Corporation	For the Union
34
ARTICLE 26
CANCELLED - REPLACED BY RECOGNITION ARTICLE
ARTICLE 27	VACATION WITH PAY PLAN
The maximum number of vacation days paid will be 20, these days to be taken in four (4) weeks of five (5) paid days each. Assessment of entitlement will be in accordance with the Supplementary Findings and Direction ofthe National War Labour Board, Wartime Wages and Control Order P.C. 5963, dated January 20, 1944, excepting those sections thereof deleted by mutual agreement between Union and Management.
Copy of tho above-noted regulations is attached hereto as Appendix 4.
ARTICLE 28	UNION SECURITY
(a)	MAINTENANCE MEMBERSHIP: Every employee who is a
member of the United Mine Workers of America at the effective date of the beginning of this Agreement or who becomes a member of the Union during the life of the Agreement, shall continue to be a member in good standing, of the Union during the life of this Agreement provided he continues to be eligible to be a member and during the life of the Agreement shall have deducted from his wages, all dues, levies, fines and assessments in accordance with Paragraph (b) below.	;
(b)	CHECK-OFF MEMBERS: The Corporation agrees to check off all dues, fines and initiation fees from all members of the United Mine Workers of America employed in and around the collieries. The Corporation also agrees to check-off for assessment or levies for strictly United Mine Workers purposes. Authority to make such deductions shall be giventothe Corporation by the President, and Secretary Treasurer of District No. 26, United Mine Workers of America, such authorities to state the purpose for which the assessment or levy is to be made.
(c)	CHECK-OFF OF EQUIVALENT TO UNION DUES FOR NONMEMBERS: The parties agree that from and after tho first day of
35
September, 1965, there shall be a compulsory check-off an amount equivalent to Union Dues from the pay of all employees who are not members of the Union and who come within the bargaining unit to which this Agreement applies. Such check-off shall continue during the period the provisions of this Agreement are binding on the parties.
(d)	MEMBERSHIP (COMPULSORY NEW EMPLOYEES): All new employees shall become members of the Union within thirty (30) days of employment and remain in good standing as a condition of employment.
(e)	GENERAL: Deduction shall be made only in the conditionsand circumstances relating tothe payment of dues, fines, initiation fees and assessments or levies for strictly United Mine Workers purposes as laid down by the constitution and By-laws of the Union. At the end of each week, the Corporation shall remit by cheque, to the Union, the total of the weekly deductions made together with a relevant statement. In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment that an employee already had made to the Union, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the provisions of the Union Constitution and By-laws, refunds to the employee will be made by the Union,
The Union shall indemnify the Corporation against any liability that the Corporation may incur under this Article. The liability of the Union shall be limited to the amount or amounts of money so deducted from employees wages in accordance with this Agreement.
ARTICLE 29	PAYMENT FOB STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
29.01	Employees will be paid for the following Statutory Holidays:
New Year’s Day	Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday	Remembrance Day
Dominion Day	Christmas Day
Miner’s Remembrance Day	Boxing Day
Labour Day	Victoria Day
29.02	(a) Effective January 1,1982, the Corporation shall pay one shift (8 hours pay) to each eligible employee, in lieu of an additional holiday. If the Government of Canada designates Heritage Day or such other day as a General Holiday, the day so designated by the Government shall be substituted for the Floating Holiday.
36
The Floating Holiday will be celebrated underthe following conditions:
(b) Employees can subsitute the “additional holiday* with a “floating holiday” which may be taken at any time convenient to both employee and management with two weeks advance written request. Management reserves the right to limit the number granted a holiday on any given day to the number not required in the operation on that day. The eligilibility requirement for the “floating holiday” shall be determined in the same manner as at present for statutory holidays, counting back from the date of the day requested.
(c)	Eligilibility for payment of “Additional Holiday” shall be determined in the same manner as at present for Statutory Holidays, counting back from the first day of the Christmas Vacation. Until the “Additional Holiday” is named by statute, the eight hours pay will be included in the Christmas Vacation pay.
29.03	The service qualification for payment of any of the holidays specified above is as follows:
(a)	The employee must have been in the active employ of the Corporation for at least thirty (30) days.
(b)	The employee must have been entitled to wages for at least fifteen (15) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday concerned.
29.04	For the purposes of this paragraph “entitled to wages” shall be assumed to include the authorized absences as outlined in Article 27, Vacation With Pay Plan, provided thatthe employee has actually started one (1) shift in the thirty (30) calendar days prior to the respective holiday.
29.05	The rate of pay for datal pay employees will be their usual datal rate of the pay week in which the holiday occurs.
29.06	The rate of pay for datal employees shall be one day at the rate of the majority of shifts paid in the week in which the holiday occurs. In cases where an equal number of shifts have boon worked at different rates or where several rates are paid during the week in which the holiday occurs, the rate of pay for the holiday shall be at the average daily rate earned in that week.
37
29.07	Employees who work on statutory holidays shall be paid at the rate of double time in addition to the regular eight (8) hour holiday pay. This doubletime payment iswholly conditional upon the employee working all of his remaining regular rostered shifts during the week which the holiday occurs. Holidays for which employees receive pay even if they are employed on that day shall be considered as one (1) shift worked and this one (1) shiftshall be used in computing their five (5) day forty (40) hour work week.
For purposes of this Article all references to data! rates shall be exclusive of all bonus or incentive payments.
NOTE: Employees who are currently covered for double timo provisions under the Collective Agreement between the parties signatory hereto, dated 15, October, 1979, shall continue to be eligible for double time payments as therein described.
ARTICLE 30	GROUP INSURANCE
All employees covered by this Agreement shall as a condition of employment, become members when eligible of the Group Insurance Plan as outlined in Appendix 1 hereof.
ARTICLE 31	PENSIONS
Pension benefits shall be set out in Appendix 2 hereof.
ARTICLE 32	RETIREMENT ALLOWANCE
Effective January 1,1989, Retirement Allowance of $500.00 will be paid to each active employee on the date of his normal retirement (age 65) and to disabled pensioned employees on reaching 65 (not applicable to P.R.L.)
ESCALATION
The retirement allowance of $911.91 shall be escalated annually for cost-of-living increases commencing January, 1990, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases, and, if the aforementioned formula by which the Canada Pension Plan is esca-
38
lated annually shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the retirement allowance is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
33mCLE	DEATH BENEFIT FOR PENSIONERS
It is agreed that subject to the exceptions outlined in this Article there will be a deduction of ten (10) cents from each employee and the amount so deducted shall be added to a seven hundred and fifty dollar ($750,00) Death Benefit from the Corporation and paid to the beneficiary upon the death of any person who retired prior to November 1, 1965, under the provisions of the 1923 Pension Plan, provided that such person had no benefits under the current Group Lifo Insurance Plan. For the purpose of this Article any employee who was on the books of the Dominion Coal Co. Ltd. or Old Sydney Collieries Ltd. but off work at November 1, 1965, and who dies prior to returning to work, the beneficiary shall be considered eligible for the Death Benefit as outlined herein.
If the Government accepts responsibility and a Compensation Pension has been paid or if the former employee is on a "burnt-out” pension, there will be a ten cent deduction from the employees but no matching amount by the Corporation.
It is understood and agreed that changes as provided herein, for the 10 and 10 Death Benefit Plan, are retroactive to January 1, 1979.
ARTICLE 34 SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT * 1
A Supplementary Unemployment Benefit offifty-seven dollars and thirty-eight cents ($57.38J per week in 1990 will be paid by the Corporation in the event of downtime in a Colliery or Department Under the Following terms and conditions:-
1 .The downtime must not have resulted either directly or indirectly from any action of any employee covered by this Agreement.
2.	The employees gross earnings for the weekly pay period must j not have exceeded a sum equal to three times the basic classifica- I tion rate in effect at the time of the downtime
39
3.	The Supplementary Unemployment Benefit will not be paid concurrentwith the payment of Weekly Indemnity underthe Group Insurance Plan or to employees on Workers Compensation. (For the purposes of this section only Weekly Indemnity shall also include benefits received under the Unemployment Insurance Sickness Benefit regulations.)
4.	Employees who are already receiving benefits from the Unemployment Insurance Commission are not eligible to receive Supplementary Unemployment Benefit.
5.	Payment of Supplementary Unemployment Benefits will be limited to a maximum period of twelve (12) months,
6.	Downtime shall not include legal holidays or vacation days.
ESCALATION
The Supplementary Unemployment Benefit of fifty-seven dollars and thirty-eight cents ($57.38) per weekly pay period, as described in the Collective Agreement, shall be escalated annually for cost-of-living increases commencing January 1, 1991, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually shall be revised at any time, then the formula by the Supplementary Unemployment Benefit is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
ARTICLE 35	PRE-RETiREMENT PLAN
The Cape Breton Development Corporation has set up a PreRetirement Leave Plan in order to reduce the manpower force without adverse social consequence. Terms and conditions of the Pre-Retirement Leave Plan are outlined in Appendix 3 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 36	RATES OF PAY
This Agreement provides for each employee working a full eight-hour shift for a datal rate of payment. These rates are specified in
40
the scKedj.e i rotas fttecneo to this Agreement. The ret js ate irclu;.tye > ah all i«a reel and re'l set iiataj in; esses t.s felloes: (A, PI boric rites of oav pe- (81 nojr cry v/ll Its i'liressef in t.e cerdar < e >vith tie f illo’vin; scredt le:
effective Jantaiy 1, '9EC,	* SOPIO esnts per hotrini eese
or ill ' iter
effective Ju’y 1, 1SeO,	' $')3C ten;.', prhur ncn.ise
c r a I rate;.
E fact v e . tint nry 1, 1C91
i; ).3 ’ ce its 'iir'uu nenase ;n i,l, ra > s.
feet ve ,,ul'< 1, 1991
* 'JO,33 cuts let hop ircresse an till ri.es
Iffectivi Jsr uerr 1,19f f.
* $(.40 tints pe i hour i-creose 0 i all rites.
Effectin Jily I 1 ‘192,	i S( ,4C ;en(s fe,r tour irtcraaso
<> i ati rates.
*‘hee< ret 3S’vill In ac.j js’edf’sfir it di/ci ;hc pa; se iod uairst to the abirec ate
"he ; on art .tor me 'he iJn'cnt.>:oei;thf.ttti'»cnti'uec ifetmt hoi irri; v s bilfy o' in; loimreir /ety rrwoh c epe nd 3 it o ion tie rata anJ qjilih of eletelounei vu rk one an: therafera i~ agrserr ont tia' i nrv jio (lasti lost1 on l;at om11 - Devo.op tnei; A/ctK to eiabl’shfti fet Ft .nan an a he ire rngigoi ir fevilop-me tttv ork v/itf he i<p e ss r bjo itivs of 3<ter din jtf occs I p odi,<;-
in j ar n cf the miho.
Tlii rtd©fi:Fueriin - DevelopmmitWorl. tvil, oeS1.CC pc eicht (f,) hojr j lift iver th i higieT urc er jrot.nd classifici.ioi in tie ,te S.cNdl I j o< ‘he Oo I ict' e /.rjreimt r,t.
ning w'll net apply ts err ploy iet, an ion 3 ruet or predict i ■a i> vork ng i l a if t.lioif the fcl'ow r g sach in.',' 'Is, room and pill i a11 f esso i atec le/als, etc. h/ rrrnaprrsnt to 33 01 a regola cccl
41
The pay nonto tf edata rat 3 for a 'nil aigV.-f our shftis coidiiional uooi euh mhvidusl employee and ;ho ui 1 or mimiiero collectively v>c rkkig ocnse ier tionsly a id diii;er Ty to ho lour these ccncspti
ARTIC..E 47
OALLEACKf Air
NOV iMCLU'EOtMTE HOURS TF WORK - MlICLE E -E
/RICttbt'	HAND TCOL3
The Oopontin a ill incur, to a rsanonabli e< ent, he co.it cf replacing vicrr-iut o> broken land tool:; ot tun ate carpenisrs provic'ec anker 0 r w orn ou1 to ils beongngtc iu dac e c arp enter:; an t;i no d r ft th 1 Corporator
AR1 ICt E O
PROXUTON n:enti/e ‘ U N
Effectivn wiih hesigiinpoi this Agre imsnt th i Cvpora ior and the L nicn ngroa tiat t II axi: ting Dwelopim at/ 'ro auction Inoer -fives ir E or t s, "an t V/or (, aod/or r sia.ed aglie i en s 'had terminate tnd be 1 ef I iced a itl 1 a Pro duction Ir.cei t'va Plan is tollcws
PR DD JCHOU WC-_NrVl:
h liciht if tiie ir cr aast d uteso' pay p ov.dec, r 3 as cm lilt production itanda’ds ’viil be ne tor all operations ,s a oh thstthc stanc'arc’s can lie nac ily sttnmdi.i normal circt ms tame.; ar d veil nov ir all ot tho Corpora ions cost.;. Fcr procuchor bayoid staiderds, th' ire will bear mam'ire plsn evai ab.e to a,I umor nmbernot avieerly oasis, "ha bous pan will previcet ittemy in nntive foi the first 1 000 tc ns weakly of produoticn per I incwi l move he standard, and a iDcocag nto of incentve on ndoiti nsl piodnc-lion such r t a micdra rm beam5 01 aporexirr atoly oie-ihid s bom tie daiy late earnings ot ’a:e voikers i: achii/e: i: wae1 puooucton per Incwal exceed: th e star dab by tO'i. podiction ncnntve tiwirn ir: ot ier than tt oss 01 tf e ■ be bssed 011 tha to al of if e crodustio.i standards' ho colliery and, r t.ia case cf workars net r’ iicluo'ng e. 5. v as*- p’an , si op etc,), on 1 tor stanaaros fc r el oceraticr s. Tt e t '
the schedule of rates attached to this Agreement. The rates are inclusive of all allowances and reflect datal increases as follows: (A) All basic rates of pay per (8) hour day will be increased in accordance with the following schedule:
Effective January 1, 1990, Effective July 1, 1990, Effective January 1, 1991, Effective July 1, 1991, Effective January 1,1992, Effective July 1, 1992,
$0.30 cents per hour increase on all rates.
$0,30 cents per hour increase on all rates.
$0.30 cents per hour increase on all rates.
$0.30 cents per hour increase on all rates.
$0.40 cents per hour increase on all rates.
* $0.40 cents per hour increase on all rates.
*These rateswill be adjusted the first day of the pay period nearest to the above dates.
The Corporation and the Union accept that the continued life and economic viability of any coal mine is very much dependent upon the rate and quality of development work and arc therefore in agreement that a new job classification Facemen - Development Work be established for Facemen who are engaged in development work with the express objective of extending the coal producing area of the mine.
The rate for Facemen - Development Work will be $1 .00 per eight (8) hour shift over the highest underground classification in the hate Schedule of the Collective Agreement.
Theforegoing will not apply to employees on construction projects nor to employees working in and about the following sections: longwalls, shortwU'Is, room and pillar and associated levels, etc., that are designated ^y management to be on a regular coal production basis,
41
The payment ofthe datal rate for a full eight-hour shift is conditional upon each individual employee and the union members collectively working conscientiously and diligently to honour these concepts.
ARTICLE 37	CALL BACK PAY
NOW INCLUDED WITH HOURS OF WORK - ARTICLE 5 -E ARTICLE 38	HAND TOOLS
The Corporation will incur, to a reasonable extent, the cost of replacing worn-out or broken hand tools of surface carpenters, provided broken or worn-out tools belonging to surface carpenters are turned in to the Corporation
ARTICLE 39	PRODUCTION INCENTIVE PLAN
Effective with the signing of this Agreement, the Corporation and the Union agree that all existing Development/Production Incentives or Bonus, Task Work, and/or related agreements shall terminate and be replaced with a Production Incentive Plan as follows:
PRODUCTION INCENTIVE
In light of the increased rates of pay provided, reasonable production standards will be set for all operations, such that the standards can be readily attained in normal circumstances and will cover all of the Corporations costs. For production beyond standards, there will be an incentive plan available to all union members on a weekly basis. The bonus plan will provide a strong incentive for the first 1,000 tons weekly of production per longwall above the standard, and a-reducing rate of incentive on additional production such at a maximum bonus of approximately one-third above-' the daily rate earnings of face workers is achieved if weekly production per longwall exceeds the standard by 50%. The production incentive to workers other than those on the walls will be based on the total of the production standards for the walls at the colliery and, in the case of workers not ai the collieries ( including, e.g. wash plant, shop, etc.), on teetotal of the production standards for all operations, The b;onus plan tor workers on
42
development will provide similar incentives.
ARTICLE 40	PAYMENT FOR TAKING INJURED MEN
OUT OF MINE
Any employee requested to assist in taking an injured man out of the mine will be paid his/her data! rate.
If, at the Collieries operated by the Corporation at the time of this Agreement, he/she arrives on the surface before the mid-point of his/her shift, he/she will return to his/her duties in the mine.
If he/she arrives on the surface after the mid-point of the shift, he/ she will be paid the full shift and permitted to go home.
ARTICLE 41	TRAINING PROGRAMS
The Union agrees to cooperate fully with the Corporation in the development of training programs so that qualified personnel will be available to perform tasks requiring a higher degree of skill occasioned by the mechanization of the operations and introduction of new methods.
ARTICLE 42	LONGWALL CONTINUOUS MINING FACES
It is recognized that maximum machine utilization in such long-walls can only be achieved by team effort. All men scheduled for the team excepting the electricians and mechanics, on such a longwall face should be capable of brushing, extracting stables, driving advance headings, cutting machine operation, advancing conveyor and jacks, timbering and carrying out any other work required to achieve maximum machine utilization. Electricians and mechanics scheduled in teams shall diligently carry out their respective crafts and cooperate with other team members to achieve maximum machine utilization.
The datal rate for a full eight hour shift for team members in the longwall continuous mining face shall be:
Effective January 1, 1990	-$120.87
Effective July 1, 1990	-$123.27
Effective January 1,1991	-$125.67
Effective July 1, 1991	-$128.07
43
Effective January 1,1992	-$131.27
Effective July 1, 1992	-$134.47
ARTICLE 43	ALCOHOLISM AND DRUG ADDICTION
/ j ■ f
! Without detracting from the existing rights and obligations of the parties recognized in other provisions of the Agreement, the Corporation and the Union agree to cooperate at the plant level in encouraging employees afflicted with alcoholism or drug addiction to undergo a coordinated program directed to the objective of their rehabilitation.
ARTICLE 44	GENERAL
CANCELLED - REPLACED BY ARTICLE - RECOGNITION ARTICLE 45	OBLIGATIONS
(a)	All provisions and terms of this Agreement are hereby mutually agreed to by and between the Cape Breton Development Corporation and all the employees of District No. 26 and signed by the representatives of the parties hereto, who have been duly authorized to execute the same on behalf of District No. 26 of the United Mine Workers of America respectively.
(b)	The fulfilment of this Agreement and that of any subsequent joint agreements entered into is guaranteed by the International Union, the Officers of District No. 26 United Mine Workers of America and the Operators; and it is their duty to see that all such agreements are carried out both in the letter and in the spirit.
ARTICLE 46	SECURITY GUARDS
It is understood and agreed that the Corporation security guards will havethe right on corporate property to search employees from time to time on leaving their work.
ARTICLE 47	CANCELLED —
Replaced by, Purpose (1.3), Page 5
ARTICLE 48	CANCELLED -
Replaced by, Art. 25.7 (d), Seniority, Pg. 31
44
CANCELLED
ARTICLE
ARTICLE 50	CANCELLED
/	' i
ARTICLE 51	/	' / BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
51.1	Any employee who has completed three (3) consecutive months of continuous employment shall be entitled to his/her bereavement leave with pay at his/her regular rate of wages for this regular work.
51.2	In the event of the death of his/her spouse or a child, an employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave on any of his regular rostered shifts, exclusive of overtime, that occur during the four (4) days immediately following the death.
51.3	In the event of the death of a parent, step-parent, mother-inlaw, father-in-law, brother, sister, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or any relative with whom he/she permanently resides, an employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave on any of his/her regular rostered shifts that occur during the three (3) days immediately following the death.
51.4	In the event an employee is required to cease work during one of his/her rostered shifts due to bereavement in the family, he/she will be paid for the unworked portion of that shift and that day will not be counted as a paid bereavement day.
51.5Any day of bereavement leave taken by an employee entitled to it will be credited as a day worked for the purpose of computing any steady work bonus provided under Article 4 for which the employee otherwise qualifies.
ARTICLE 52	JURY/WITNESS DUTY
An employee summoned for jury duty or subpoenaed by the crown as a witness in a court of law, and who is required to lose time from his regular rostered shift(s) as a result thereof shall be
45
paid for actual time lost with a maximum of one basic days (8 hours) pay at the straight time rate applicable to the classification last performed for each day lost, less the amount allowed him for the duty for each such day, excluding allowances paid by the court for meals, lodging, or transportation subject to the following requirements and limitations:
1.	The Corporation shall be liable for payment only in those cases where the Court recognizes attendance and compensates the employee for same. In all such cases, the Corporations financial liability shall be governed by the limitations contained in paragraph one (1) above.
2.	An employee mustfurnish the Corporation with astatementfrom the Court of the allowances paid and the days on which jury/ witness duty was performed.
3.	The number of working days for which jury/witness duty pay shall be paid is limited to a maximum of fourteen (14) days in any calendar year.
4.	No pay will be allowed for any day for which the employee is entitled to annual vacation or general holiday pay.
ARTICLE 53	.	APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING
53.1	The Corporation will establish and maintain an Apprenticeship Program to train and develop employees in the skilled trades in accordance with the terms and conditionsspecified by the Nova Scotia Department of Labour, The Apprenticeship Program will replace the Memorandum of Apprenticeship Training Agreement between the parties.
53.2	It is agreed that apprentices will not be placed at employment not related to their training program except in emergency situations.
53.3	Eligibility for participation in the Apprenticeship Program is restricted to those of the Corporations active employees who have the following minimum requirements:
(a)	three years of service with the Corporation;
and
(b)	a Grade 10 academic or equivalent education
46
53.4	The number of participants in the Apprenticeship Program at any given time will be determined by the Corporation.
53.5	Notice of vacancies in the Apprenticeship Program will be posted at locations throughout the Corporation for a period of seven (7) days. Applicantswith the minimum requirements set out in Clause (3) of this Article and who also, in the opinion of the Corporation, have satisfactory work records and recommendations from appropriate departments and have had satisfactory interviews and aptitude test results, will be considered for positions in the Apprenticeship Program. The Corporation may also consider an applicants previoustraining. Selectionof participants to the Apprenticeship Program shall be at the sole discretion of the Corporation.
53.6	Participants in the Apprenticeship Program shall earn wages equivalent to the underground labourer classification during the firsttwenty-four (24) months of their apprenticeship and thereafter, their wages will increase progressively in accordance with the Apprenticeship rate schedule.
53.7	The instructional content of the Apprenticeship Program shall be consistent with the requirements of the Apprenticeship Division, Nova Scotia Department of Labour and the operational requirements of the Corporation.
53.8An apprentice failing ayearwill have his position reviewed by the Corporation, and if his work and school performance are not satisfactory, his participation in the Apprenticeship Program may be terminated by the Corporation. An apprentice who fails any two years of the Apprenticeship Program will be removed from the Apprenticeship Program and returned to available work for which he is qualified and able to do in the bargaining unit. An employee who is removed from the Apprenticeship Program will only bo returned to work if hewas working forthe Corporation immediately prior to entering the Apprenticeship Program.
53.9 When an employee successfully complctos tho Apprenticeship Program, his job location shall be determined by Article 25 -Seniority Wages will be paid in accordance with this Agreement.
47
TERMS OF AGREEMENT AND PROVISION FOR RENEWAL
ARTICLE 54
This Agreement supercedes all previous agreements between the signatories and is in full settlement of all demands served on or subsequent to January 11, 1989, by the parties signatory hereto, it will remain in effect until December 31, 1992, and thereafter subjectto notice in writing from either party to this Agreement of its desire to revise, amend orterminate it. Such notice may be served at any time subsequent to September 30, 1992.
Ungan Colliery
H is understood and agreed that should Lingan Colliery cease production priorto December 31, 1991, that the Collective Agreement shall be considered as expiring on December 31, 1991.
DULY EXECUTED THIS 16th day of March 1990 at Glace Bay, County of Cape Breton,. Province of Nova Scotia
'?'~l L	c
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
-'Pox
■T':’’ ' ' ;C'	'''  
48
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF DISTRICT 26, UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
ADDENDUM “A’
PREMIUM TIME PROVISIONS
Although the Contract between the parties provides that the Devco operations will be carried on under the provisions of the Canada Labour Code, it is further understood and agreed that:
(1)	The premium time provisions that existed prior to signing this Agreement will continue to apply at individual operational units.
(2)	The weekend premium provided for in the Agreement for Saturday and Sunday workwill be paid provided thatthe Saturday and Sunday shifts form part of the normal 5 day, 40 hour work week. Under no circumstances will theweekend premium be paid in addition to premium time provisions that existed priorto signing this Agreement.
(3)	Although Article5.2 of the Agreement providesforthe rostering of each work week, if Management requires the services of an employee over and above his five rostered shifts then subject to direction by Management the employee can work additional shifts but such shifts must commence from the recognized shifts starting times. Payment will be at the data! rate and Clauses 1 and 2 above will apply.
It is understood and agreed that:
(1)	Brushers and Development Men - All men employed on face brushing or driving at the face of development will be paid the faceman development rate as follows:
Such men will be required to be competent to efficiently, diligently and safely carry out any reasonable instruction from Management.
ADDENDUM “B’
Jan
July
Janus
July
Janu
July
49
(2)	Brushers on non-cyclic walls will be paid an agreed datal rate butmustwork afull eight hour shift as they are part of the face team required to ensure maximum machine utilization.
(3)	Continuous Service Employees will be governed by the Agreement in conformance with the Canada Labour Code but will not be eligible for the weekend premium. They will, however, be allowed to work the 6th day during any week and will receive payment therefore on the basis of time and one-half if so worked.
(4)	Effective August 1, 1972 - any other Continuous Service job established will be rostered on a 5-day 40-hour week basis,
Appendix 1
Jan 1/92
$23,500, $	2,500
$ 1,250
$5,000 $2,500 $1,250
$3,000
No coverage for spouse or dependent children
2.	Accidental Death & Dismemberment
(a)	Active Employees
$20,000	$20,000	$20,000
(b)	Pre-Retirement Leave Employees & Comp Disability Pensioners
$5,000	$5,000	$5,000
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefits terminate at age 65
SCHEDULE OF GROUP INSURANCE BENEFITS
Jan 1/90 Jan 1/91
1. Life Insurance
(a)	Active Employees
Employee	$21,000	$22,500
Spouse	$ 2,500	$ 2,500
Dependent Child	$ 1,250	$ 1,250
(b)	(Pre-Retirement Leave Employees & Comp. Disability Pensioners)
Employee	$5,000	$5,000
spouse	$2,500	$2,500
Dependent Child	$1,250	$1,250
(c)	Retired Employees
65 years & Over	$3,000	$3,000
50
3.	Weekly Indemnity
Effective	January	1,	1990,	employees	will	receive	$325
Effective	January	1,	1991,	employees	will	receive	$350
Effective	January	1,	1992,	employees	will	receive	$363
per week (the Weekly Indemnity) when they meet the following requirements-
(a)	The employee must be sick or injured, not working, and not in receipt of Workers Compensation Benefits as a result of such sickness or injury
(b)	The payment of the Weekly Indemnity shall commence on the fourth (4th) day of the sickness or injury; however, if the employee is hospitalized (i.e. a registered bed patient) or institutionalized under a Detoxification Program the payment shall commence on such date.
(c)	If an employee is eligible for Unemployment Insurance Sick. ness Benefits (U.I.S.B.) he must claim such benefits. While the employee is in receipt of U.I.S.B., he is not entitled to Weekly Indemnity,
(d)	The maximum period for which Weekly Indemnity is payable is twenty-six (26) weeks; however, if the employee is not eligible for U.I.S.B., he may receive Weekly Indemnity for a period up to forty-one (41) weeks.
4.	Health
Eligible employees and/or their dependants shall be entitled to
receive;
(a)	Outpatient Benefit (i.e. Diagnostic, X-Ray and Lab) in any one insurance year - $25.00 maximum
(b)	Ambulance Benefit (per benefit period) - $40.00 maximum
5.	Vision Care for Employees and Dependants
Effective January 1,1990, frames and lenses once every two years to a maximum of $125,00. (Increase to $150.00 every two years effective January 1, 1991.
51
6.	Prescription Drug Benefit
All drugs prescribed by a doctor which are not normally freely available without a prescription, generally recognized O.T.C. (over the counter) items excluded. A credit card issued to each member of the Plan with a one dollar ($1.00) per prescription fee paid by each member.
The maximum per person in any insurance year for analgesics, hypnotics, sedatives and tranquilizers shall be increased to $300.00
7.	Diabetic and Colostomy Supplies
Eligible employees will receive diabetic and colostomy supplies under the terms of the Group Insurance Policy in effect on the date of ratification.
8.	Dental Plan
Dental coverage will be provided on the same basis as the benefit coverage under the Cape Breton Development Corporation, Dental Plan. The amounts covered by the Corporation’s Dental Plan, after the normal deductible, will match dentists fees in Nova Scotia Dental Fee Guide for the current year as follows:
9.	General
The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Group Insurance Plan, All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the context of the Insurance Contract between Great West Life Assurance Company and the Cape Breton Development Corporation.
A.	THE NON-CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN AS AMENDED Effective January 1,1987
APPENDIX 2 - PENSION BENEFITS
52
ELIGIBILITY
All employees with a minimum of 10 years continuous son/ice NORMAL RETIREMENT AGE
Age 65 or if on Pre-Retiremont Leave or E.R.i.P. On the day following attainment of 65th birthday.
PENSION AT RETIREMENT
$12.87 pot month for each year of continuous service up to a maximum of 25 years.
CONTRIBUTIONS No employee contributions
DEPENDENTS BENEFIT
(A)	Before Retirement - If an employee dies before reaching age 65, a dependent will receive his pension benefits for twelve years.
(B)	After Retirement - In the case of a pensioner who dies after drawing less than twelve years pension, the benefit will be paid to a dependent for the balance of twelve years.
WIDOWS BENEFIT
(A)	Before Retirement - If an employee dies before reaching age 65, his widow’s pension benefit will be 100% for the balance of twenty-five years.
(B)	After Retirement In the case of a pensioner who dies after drawing less than twenty-five years pension, the benefit will be paid to his widow for the balance of twenty-five years.
DISABILITY BENEFIT
(A)	A disabled employee unable to continue working due to his disability and having any combination of age and continuous service from most recent date of hire totalling 75 or more years shall, subject to medical proof of genuine disability satisfactory to the Corporation Pension Board be granted a disability pension to normal retirement age of four hundred dollars ($400.00) per month.
(B)	Persons in receipt of compassionate disability, or approved for such benefit prior to June 18, 1977, may apply and those having
53
a combination of age and continuous service totalling 75 or more years as of June 18,1977, shall receive the new disability benefit from the date of their application. It is the intention of the parties that the final date for the calculation of age and years of service for those presently receiving disability benefit shall be June 18,1977. Compassionate Disability benefits as per Section 2 (b) of the NonContributory Pension Plan.
ESCALATION
The pension will be escalated on the same formula as the Canada Pension Plan.
Effective July 1, 1975 - Compassionate Disability Plan - Benefits shall be subject to annual cost-of-living increases equivalent to increases provided from time to time by way of annual adjustment under the Canada Pension Plan, and, if the method by which Canada Pension Plan adjustment are calculated shall be revised at any time, then the method for calculating the increases provided herein shall be similarly revised.
As a result of annual adjustments, the benefits payable January 1, 1989 are as follows:
DISABILITY BENEFIT
Without dependents	$9652,56
With dependents	$11585.52
Normal Retirement Age	$3859.68
The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Plan. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the context of the Non-Contributory Pension Plan.
B.THE CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN ELIGIBILITY
I Membership in the Plan shall be mandatory as a condition of employmentforall employees hired by the Corporation. Contribu-torship status in the Contributory Pension Plan shall commence in December 1982.
54
APPENDIX 3
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION COAL DIVISION
THE PRE-RETIREMENT LEAVE PLAN AMENDMENT TO BY-LAW THREE OF CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BE IT RESOLVED that By-Law Three of the Cape Breton Development Corporation be and the same is hereby amended by rescinding “The Pre-Retirement Leave Plan” which is attached as an Appendix to said By-Law Three and adopting the following in substitution therefore:
APPENDIX TO OVERALL PLAN OF CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION THE PRE-RETIREMENT LEAVE PLAN
(Section 18 (2) and (3) C.B.D.C. Act)
PREAMBLE
Section 17 of the Cape Breton Development Corporation Act requires the Corporation to prepare and submit to the Minister, for approval of the Governor in Council, and Treasury Board an overall plan for the conduct of coal mining and related operations by the Corporation in an efficient manner, and for the progressive reduction of coal production by the Corporation from mines that are not economically viable.
As part of this plan, and pursuant to a recommendation of the Donald Report, the Corporation is introducing a programme for laying off workers before their normal retirement age of 65. Such workers will be deemed to be on pro-retirement leave and will formally be designated as on standby and available for recall and as such will be able to continue to earn entitlement under the Canada Pension Plan.
The benefits paid underthis plan will be designated to supplement other forms of assistance hereinafter designated and received by the employee in order to raise his income to the levels specified below, but said other forms of assistance in respect to which
55
benefits under this plan shall be supplemental shall not include Unemployment insurance Benefits.
All employees reaching the designated age of pre-retirement leave are eligible for it.
The Corporation reserves the right, at its discretion,
(a)	To determine the extent to which the plan is mandatory; initially this provision will apply to those 60 or over.
(b)	To designate and from time to time change the other age groups to which the pre-retirement leave plan may apply.
(c)	To exclude certain classes, categories of employees, or individuals, from provisions of the plan, either entirely or for specific periods.
(d)	To make regulations concerning the operations of the plan.
(e)	To terminate the plan at any time if it is no longer required to meet the problems for which the Corporation was created to solve.
This plan will apply only to employees on the staff of the Corporation at the time the plan is first put into effect.
The plan will be made available to those employees in the age group under55 yearswho, in thesole opinion of Management, are disabled due to illness or injury to the extent that they are unable to carry out their duties in a safe and efficient manner, and for whom no suitable alternative employment is available within the Coal Division. The decision as to the disability of an employee within the meaning of the paragraph will rest solely with the management of the Corporation and the Corporation reserves the right of determining what medical or other evidence is required for Managementto reach a decision. The employee will be obliged to cooperate fully in any manner requested by the Corporation. In addition to the general provisions of the Plan relating to Part or Full-Time Alternative Employment, an employee in the age group under 55 years accepted by Management for Pre-Retirement Leave benefit due to disability either with the Coal Division or with other employers provided such employment is made available to
56
him and must comply with any legislation which is now or which may be effected for the benefit of disabled persons.
AMOUNT OF BENEFITS
A.	The Basic Benefit shall be as follows:
Without dependents (base year 1969) $2400.00 per annum With dependents (base year 1969) $3000.00 per annum (Dependents shall be defined according to the income tax regulations)
B.	Fifteen years employment in Nova Scotia coal mines is required to earn maximum basic benefit, The benefit will be reduced proportionally for shorter service; those over 60 whose benefits are so reduced may, if they so elect, continue to work until they obtain the full fifteen years entitlement, or reach retirement at 65 whichever is earlier.
C.	Benefits shall be subject to cost-of-living increases equivalent to increases provided from time to time by way of annual adjustment under the Canada Pension Plan, and if the method by which Canada Pension Plan adjustments are calculated shall be revised at any time, then the method of calculating the increases provided herein shall be similarly revised.
As a result of the annual adjustments, the benefit payable on January 1, 1990 is as follows:
D.	Lump Sum Payments - In addition to other benefits, the Corporation will pay to each qualifying employee, the sum of $50.00 for each year of continuous service, up to a maximum payment of $500,, and a further identical payment (unaffected by additioinal service) on reaching age 65. These special paymentswill cushion the transition from normal pay to pre-retirement leave benefits, and from the latter to the Pension Plan. The first of such payments up to a maximum of $500, shall be paid immediately after such employee shall have exhausted any Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which ho may be entitled and, if not so entitled, when such employee commences to receive payments under this plan.
Without dependents With dependents
57
CANADA PENSION PLAN
Payment under this plan will be considered earnings for Canada Pension Plan purposes. Contributions will be deducted from payments to employees to which will be added on equal amount from the Corporation. Contributions will be based on the current rate and maximum applicable under the Canada Pension Plan.
COMMENCEMENT AND TERMINATION OF PAYMENTS
Payments shall be madeweekly and shall commence at the end of thefirstweek following qualification of an employee for payments under this plan, and terminate on reaching age 65, death, or on date of leaving the plan.
Upon attainment of age 65, payments under the Corporation pension plan will commence. For the purposes of calculation of the earnings for the pension, the period used will be the ten years priorto commencement of pre-retirement leave, ratherthan the ten years prior to retirement. The period during which the employee is receiving payment on pre-retirement leave will be included as part of total service for pension purposes.
PART OF FULL-TIME ALTERNATIVE EMPLOYMENT
The Corporation encourages employees receiving benefits under this plan to seek other employment, subjectto qualifications noted below:
1.	Income received from casual employment up to $50 per month will not affect benefits under this plan. However 50% of outside income earned in excess of $50 per month will be applied to reduce benefits, (e.g. Man earns $100 outside; benefits reduced by $25.)
2.	An employee on pre-retirement leave may receive leave of absence for other employmentwithout affecting his right to return to this plan or to receive continuing benefits under it; these benefits, however, would be reduced according to the formula in (1) above.
3.	An employee on this plan who takes employment in another
58
Nova Scotia coal mine receiving some form of assistance from eitherthe federal or provincial government forfeits all future entitlement under this plan.
CANADA PENSION PLAN AND INSURANCE DISABILITY PAYMENTS
It is recognized that Disability provisions are contained in the Canada Pension Plan and in certain Insurance Policies carried by the Corporation. It is mandatory that employees entitled to benefits of this kind apply for such insurance or benefit otherwise available to them and Pre-Retirement Leave Benefit shall be considered as a supplement only to insure maximum combined benefit of $2,800. per annum without dependents or $3,600. per annum with dependents or such other amounts which may from time to time be adopted in accordance with the terms of the PreRetirement Leave Plan. (Nova Scotia Workmen’s Compensation Benefits shall not count for purposes of this paragraph.)
GROUP INSURANCE
Group insurance must be maintained on the following basis for those who are receiving benefits. Those who have obtained fulltime alternative permanent employment and are receiving supplement are not eligible for group insurance.
(a)	Life Insurance- When an employee qualifies for payment under this plan he must maintain his existing $5000.00 coverage in force by continuing to pay his share (50%) of the premium.
(b)	Medical-Surgical Insurance-The Corporation will continue to provide medical-surgical coverage for the employee and his dependents identical to that for active employees and the employee must continue to pay his share (50%) of the premium. NOTE:
THE PRE-RETIREMENT LEAVE PLAN continues to exist but only within the context of an agreement made between the Cape Breton Development Corporation (Coal Division) and District No. 26, United ‘Mine Work&s of America. This Agreement was outlined on Wednesday, February 20, 1974, in a public release HIRING AND P.R.L.
59
APPENDIX 4
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION COAL DIVISION
VACATION WITH PAY
1.	APPLICABILITY
Vacation with pay as established in accordance with the Finding and Direction of the National War Labour Board, dated December 3,1943, and amended by subsequent negotiation shall apply to all employees of the Cape Breton Development Corporation (Coal Division) covered by this Agreement.
2.	SERVICE TO QUALIFY
To be eligible for his first vacation, an employee must have been in the service of the Corporation for a continuous period of twelve months. Thereafter when eligible, the number of vacation days to which an employee shall be entitled in any one calendar year shall be based upon the period he was in the employ of the Corporation during the previous calendar year in accordance with the terms set forth in the subsequent clauses.
3.	MAXIMUM VACATION
The maximum vacation with pay which may be earned shall be twenty days.
4.	ASSESSMENT OF VACATION
As soon as possible after the first of January in each year, the eligibility of every employee for vacation shall be calculated on the following basis: From January 1, to December 31, an employee shall be granted vacation with pay of two days for each twenty-three days of actual work, due allowance in each case to be made as provided hereunder for authorized leaves of absence because of sickness or other justified causes.
60
5.	CALCULATION OF DAYS OF WORK
(a) For the purpose of calculating the number of days of actual work in addition to taking the number of days on which work was actually performed, absence from work for the following reasons shall be counted as days of actual work.
(i)	Sickness absence - if supported by a medical certificate deposited with the Corporation within sevon days of the employees returning to work, provided that the aggregated period of periods of sickness in any one calendaryearor period of sickness does not exceed three months.
(ii)	Accident absence - if either supported by a medical certificate deposited with the Corporation within seven days of the employees return to work or by Workmen’s Compensation Records, provided that the aggregated period or periods of such absence in any one calendar year does not exceed three months.
(iii)	Closing of a mine or section of a mine by the Management for reasons outside the employees control.
(iv)	If a man is absent for any justified cause, he must prove to the satisfaction of the Manager or of the head of any auxiliary department as the case may be that the cause for his absence was justified.
(v)	Employees granted leave of absence by a Mine Manager in connection withTrade Union business, or to attend conventions of United Mine Workers of America, shall be allowed to count such absence as days of actual work.
This sub-clause does not apply to the members of a committee of workmen who examine the workings of a mine in accordance with the provisions of Part IV of the Canada Labour Code, who shall be considered to be absent with justified cause.
(VI) (a) Should an employee report for work on a working day on his own shift and find no work available to him, that day will he credited to him as a work day for vacation purposes provided he does not refuse work offered to him. In the event however, that no work is available to him because of action of a fellow employee or fellow employees, that day will not be credited to him for vacation purposes as a day worked.
61
(b)	All time lost for reason otherthan those defined above shall be recorded as absences without leave and shall not be included when computing actual days of work.
(c)	Additional hours worked over and above the normal day shall not be taken into account in calculating days of actual work for the purpose of vacation exceptthat where an employee is required by the Management to work two shifts of eight hours each within the twenty-four hours, thetwo shifts so worked shall be counted astwo days.
(d)	When employees are rostered in accordance with provision of Article 5.a2 of this Agreement they shall work their full 5 day rostered work week and be given credit for the sixth day in that rostering period.
If an employeedoes notwork his full rostered work week he will not be given any vacation credits unless he substantiates his absence according to sub-clause I to VI inclusive, hereof.
6.	TIME OF VACATIONS
The normal vacation period shall be the last complete week in July, thefirsttwo weeks of August and theweek during which Christmas falls. It is understood however, that from time to time it will be necessary to perform work that can only be done during a shutdown of operations and that such work may require men of particular skills. Since it is necessary to schedule such work to be done during thevacation periods, it is further agreed that Management in consultation with the Union will provide a roster assigning certain men to work during the vacation periods. The employees so affected will take their vacation at some other time to be agreed on between the employees and their supervisors,
In the Contract Year commencing August 1,1971, when the fourth week (5 days) is added to the vacation with pay plan, employees with the required credits as outlined in Section (5) hereof will be allowed to take the added week at a time mutually convenient to the Corporation and the employee. Employees will be allowed to take individual days to total 5 to the extent of their remaining credits at a time mutually convenient to the employee and management.
62
NOTE: it is understood and agreed that the Corporation shall have the exclusive right to make the final determination as to when and on what dates the annual Christmas vacation period shall be held.
7.	VACATION DAYS CANNOT BE ACCUMULATED FROM YEAR TO YEAR
8.	VACATION PAY
Employees shall be paid their current classification rate of pay per day for each earned vacation day.
For the purposes of this Article, an employees current classification rate of pay per day shall be determined by whatever classification rate of pay per day he received for fifty percent (50%) of the shifts actually worked by him in the first five (5) months of the year during which the vacation is taken.
9.	COMPLAINTS
Any employee having a complaintwith regard to hisvacation may have it treated as agrievance and dealt with in accordance with the procedure as laid down in the Union Contract,
10.	WAGES NOT PAID IN LIEU OF VACATION
Employees shall not be paid forvacations not taken except under the special circumstances outlined in sub-clause II.
11.	TERMINATION OF SERVICE
(a)	If an employee not having been dismissed for cause, leaves the service of the Corporation for reasons beyond his control at a time when a unused period of vacation with pay stands to his credit, he shall be paid the amount due him in lieu of vacation calculated to the date of his leaving the service of the Corporation.
(b)	If an employee leaves the service of the Corporation of his own accord, or is dismissed for cause, at a timewhen an unused period of vacation with pay stands to his credit, he shall be paid the amount due him in lieu of vacation calculated to the end of the previous calendar year, except that credits as provided under Section 44 of the Canada Labour Code shall apply.
63
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION COAL DIVISION
RATE SCHEDULE SURFACE
JAN 1 JULY 1 J A N 1 JULY 1 J A N 1 1990	1990	1991	1991	1992
LOAD OUT
112.58	114.98
HOISTING ENGINE
116.89	119.29 MAN/PIPE SLOPE
116.89	119.29 MOTOR MAN SURF.
116.89	119.29 CONVEYOR OPER.
116.89	119.29 COMPRESSOR
118.22 120.62 SURF MECH 1 ST CLASS
116.89	119.29 WELD, - 1ST CLASS
118.22 120.62 BANK MECH 1 ST CLASS
116.89	119.29 WELDERS 2ND CLASS
115.84	118.24
CARPENT. 1 ST CLASS
117.26	119.66
LAMP ROOM MEN
112.58	114.98 TIMBER YD.F.MAN
112.58	114.98 TRACTOR/TRUCK OPER.
112.58	114.98
117.38	119.78	122.98
121.69	124.09	127.29
121.69	124.09	127.29
121.69	124.09	127.29
121.69	124.09	127.29
118.73	121.13	124.33
CLASS
123.49	125.89	129.09
123.02	125.42	128.62
121.69	124.09	127.29
123.02	125.42	128.62
121.69	124.09	127.29
120.64	123.04	126.24
122.06	124.46	127.66
117.38	119.78	122.98
117.38	119.78	122.98
117.38	119.78	122.98
113.93	116.33
SURF. ELECT.Q. UAL. 1ST 118.69	121.09
COLLIERY BKSMITH
64
JULY1
1992
126.18
130.49
130.49
130.49
130.49 127.53 132.29
131.82
130.49
131.82
130.49 129.44 130.86 126.18 126.18 126.18
AMBULANCE OPER.
113.93	116.33 118.73 WASH HSE. TENDER
112.58	114.98	117.38
POWDER & CAPS
112.58	114.98	117.38
ROADMAKER SURF.
113.93	116.33	118.73
ROADMAKER HELP.SURF.
112.58	114.98	117.38
MACH. QUAL 1 ST CL.
118.69	121.09	123.49
MACH. QUAL 2ND CL.
117.74	120.14	122.54
LEAD CARPENTER LINGAN
118.22	120.62	123.02
BLKSMITH 1ST CL.
^	"	T15.41	117.81	120.21
BLKSMITH 2ND CL.
113.93	116.33	118.73
MATL. MEN-SURF.
112.58	114.98	117.38
I LABOURERS SURF.
I LTRICOPR.PRINU 112114.98 117.38
121.13
119.78
119.78
121.13
119.78 125.89 124.94 125.42 122.61
121.13
119.78
119.78
1 13.93 116.33 118.73	121.13
COLLIERY UNDERGROUND
JAN 1 JULY 1 JAN 1 JULY 1 1990	1990	1991	1991
SHOTFIRERS DATAL
124.32	126.72 129.12	131.52
HAUL. ENGINEMEN
115.95	118,35 120.75
HAUL. ENGINEMEN
114.46	116.86 119.26
HAUL.ENGINEMEN LEV.
113.13	115.53 117.93
123.15
121.66
120.33
65
124.33	1 27.53
122.98	126.18
122.98	126.18
124.33	127.53
122.98	126.18 129.09 132.29 128.14 131.34 128.62 131.82 125.81 129.01
124.33	127.53
122.98	126.18
122.98	126.18
124.33	127.53
JAN 1 JULY 1 1992	1992
134.72 137.92
126.35 129.55 124.86 128.06 123.53 126.73
HAUL.ENGINEMEN
117.43	119.83 CHAIN RUN. LEVEL
113.13	115.53 ROPE S. UNDGRND
114.46	116.86 ROLLER MEN
113.13	115.53 MOTORMEN
117.43	119.83 CONVEYOR OPER.
113.13	115.53 CONSOL OPER.PROD W. PROD SHIFTS ONLY
114.46	116.86 ROAD/DEEP BOSS
114.46	116.86 VULCANIZER-l.MAN
117.43	119.83 VULCANIZER HELP.
(Not To Exceed Two Men) 114.46	116.86
CONV. OPER. TRANSH.
117.43	119.83 BUNKER OPER WR. REP.
117.43	119.83 STONE DUSTERS
113.13	115.53
PUMPMEN
113.13	115.53 BOOSTER FAN ENG.
113.13	115.53 MATERIAL MEN
113.13	115.53
122.23
117.93
119.26
117.93
122.23
117.93
119.26
119.26
122.23
119.26
122.23
122.23
117.93
117.93
117.93
117.93
ROADMAKER DEVEL.
117.43	119.83 122.23
ROADMAKERS
114.46 116.86 119.26 ROADMAKERS HELP.
113.13 115.53 117.93
66
124.63
120.33
121.66
120.33
124.63
120.33
121.66
121.66
124.63
121.66
124.63
124.63
120.33
120.33
120.33
120.33
124.63
121.66
120.33
127.83
123.53
124.86
123.53
127.83
123.53
124.86
124.86
127.83
124.86
127.83
127.83
123.53
123.53
123.53
123.53
127.83
124.86
123.53
131.03
126.73
128.06
126.73
131.03
126.73
128.06
128.06
131.03
128.06
131.03 131 .03
126.73
126.73
126.73
126.73
131.03
128.06
126.73
ROOF BOLTERS
115.95	118.35 STEEL BOOMERS
114.46	116.86 UNGD. WELDERS
118.76	121.16
BRUSHERS-DATAL
114.46	116.86 EIMCO OPER. (S.N.)
120.87	123.27
FOAMERS
120.87	123.27 MINE MECH Q 1 ST CL.
117.43	119.83 MINE MECH Q 2ND CL.
115.59	117.99
CHARGEHANDS MECH.
115.95	118.35 DIESEL MECH(WR RPT)
117.44	119.84 MINE MECH(WR RPT)
117.44	119.84 PIPEMEN HEAD
114.46	116.86 PIPEMEN DEVEL.
117.43	119.83 MECHANIC HELPER
113.13	115,53 CHAIN RUN. ON SLOPE
117.43	119.83 ELECT. WR. REPO
117.43	119.83 ELECT. HELPERS
113.13	115.53 ELECT. U GRND.
114.46	116.86 ELECT. Q. 1 ST CLASS
119.23	121.63 ELECT. Q. 2ND CLASS-
118.28 120.68
120.75
119.26 123.56
119.26
125.67
125.67
122.23 120.39
120.75
122.24
122.24
119.26
122.23
117.93
122.23
122.23
117.93
119.26 124.03 123.08
123.15 121.66 125.96 121.66
128.07
128.07
124.63 122.79
123.15
124.64
124.64 121.66
124.63
120.33
124.63
124.63
120.33 121.66 126.43 125.48
126.35	129.55
124.86	128.06 129.16 132.36
124.86	128.06
131.27	134.47
131.27	134.47
127.83	131.03 125.99 129.19
126.35	129.55
127.84	131.04
127.84	131.04
124.86	128.06
127.83	131.03
123.53	126.73
127.83	131.03
127.83	131.03
123.53	126.73
124.86	120.06 129.63 132.83 128.68 131.88
67
DRILLING F. DEGS
115.95	118.35 UNDERGROUND CONST.
115.95	118.35 MEDICAL TECH. #1
113.21	115.61
LABOURERS
113.13	115,53
FACEMAN
120.87	123.27 FACEMAN DEVEL
.	122.06	124.46
MECH. WITH LDR.
120.87	123.27 ELECT. WITH LDR.
120.87	123.27 MON. PK. COAL BTM
120.87	123.27 BUILD. ON COAL LEV.
120.87	123.27 BUILD. ON MAT. LEV.
120.87	123.27 MECH. QUAL. PW.SUPW.
120.87	123.27 ELECT. QUAL.PW.SUPW.
120.87	123.27 MECHANIC DEVEL.
122.06	124.46 ELECT. DEVEL.
122.06	124.46 CONVEY. OP.TRANS.B.
113.13	115.53
BR.& ARCH COAL L.
120.87	123.27 BR.& ARCH MAT. L.
120.87	123.27 BSHING-ARCH DEVEL.
120.87	123.27 SET UP W. CHOCKS
117.43	119.83
120.75
120.75 118.01
117.93
125.67 126.86
125.67
125.67
125.67
125.67
125.67
125.67
125.67 126.86 126.86
117.93
125.67
125.67
125.67 122.23
123.15	126.35
123.15	126.35
120.41	123.61
120.33	123.53
128.07	131.27
129.26	132.46
128.07	131.27
128.07	131.27
128.07	131.27
128.07	131.27
128.07	131.27
128.07	131.27
128.07	131.27
129.26	132.46
129.26	132.46
120.33	123.53
128.07	131.27
128.07	131.27
128.07	131.27
124.63	127.83
68
129.55
129.55 126.81
126.73
134.47
135.66
134.47
134.47
134.47
134.47
134.47
134.47
134.47
135.66
135.66
126.73
134.47
134.47
134.47 131.03
CONST. WORKER M.H.
120.87	123.27	125.67	128.07
CONST. WORKER SPEC.
120.87	123.27	125.67	128.07
LOADING HO OP WALL
117.43	119.83	122.23	124.63
MATERIAL RECOVERY
113.13	115.53	117.93	120.33
MATRL.MEN TRANS. BONUS
113.13	115.53	117.93	120.33
MINER TRAINEE
113.12	115.52	117.92	120.32
131.27	134.47
131.27	134.47 127.83 131.03
123.53	126.73
123.53	126.73 123.52 126.72
PAYMENT FOR CARRYING POWDER:
A consideration of $1.50 per man per shift will be paid to datal employees working in multiple shooting places who carry 10 pounds or more of powder per day. Payment to be made only to workmen who actually transport powder in the quantity noted, and who return cannisters and any unused powder in their place on the surface.
PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME
COLLIERIES - UNDERGROUND
Except as otherwise provided by this Part, payment for ovortimo will be made in accordance with the provisions of the Canada Labour code.
Rope splicers who work loss than four hours overtime will be paid a half shift and if over four hours will be paid a full shift,
PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME DEPARTMENTS
Except as otherwise provided by this Part, payment for overtime will be made in accordance with the provisions of the Canada Labour Code.
69
MINE RESCUE
JAN 1	JULY 1 JAN 1	JULY 1 JAN 1 JULY 1
1990	1990	1991	1991	1992	1992
DRAGGERMEN -ACT. WRK
120.87	123.27
DRAGGERMEN STAND BY
116.43	118.83
RESCUE PRCT. INVOL.
112.84	115.24
DRAGGER HOUSE Al-I-
112.84	115.24
PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME
Payment for overtime will be made in accordance with the provisions of the Canada Labour Code.
125.67 121.23
117.64
117.64
128.07
123.63
120.04
120.04
131.27
126.83
123.24
123.24
134.47
130.03
126.44
126.44
CENTRAL WAREHOUSE
JAN 1	JULY 1 JAN 1
1990	1990	1991
JULY 1 JAN 1 JULY 1 1991	1992	1992
STORESMAN
114.49 FORK LIFT OPER.
114.87 LABOUR 112.58
116.89 119.29
117.27 119.67 114.98 117.38
121.69	124.89	128.09
122.07	125.27	128.47
119.78	122.98	126.18
PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME
Payment for overtime will be made in accordance with the provisions of the Canada Labour Code.
STORES &TRANSPORTATION
JAN 1 JULY 1 JAN 1 J U L Y 1 JAN 1 JULY 1 1990	1990 1991	1991	1992	1992
LIFT TRUCK OPR.
113.02 115.42 117.82 120.22 123.42 126.62
70
TRK. DRVS.
114.87	117.27	119.67
TRAILER OPER.FLT.
116.78	119.18	121.58
TRUCK COAL
118.65	121.05	123.45
PAY LOADER OPER.
116.78	119.18	121.58
122.07
123.98 125.85
123.98
PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME
125.27 128.47
127.18	130.38 129.05 132.25
127.18	130.38
Time and one-half for overtime and double time for Sundays and legal Holidays will be paid to all classes of labour employed in this Department. This does not apply to continuous service men nor to employees supplying for absentees.
CENTRAL SHOPS AND CONSTRUCTION
JAN 1 JULY 1 1990	1990
JAN 1 JULY 1 1991	1991
JAN 1 JULY 1 1992	1992
LEADHAND MACH.ELC S,
120.61	123.01	125.14
LEAD MACH & ELECT
119.65	122.05	124.45
MACH. 1 ST CLASS
118.69	121.09	123.49
MACH. 2ND CLASS
117.74	120.14	122.54
FITTER 118,22	120,62	123.02
HEATING PLT.ATT.
115.94	118.34	120.74
TOOL ROOM KEEPER
113.78	116.18	118.58
MECHANICS
116.78	119.18	121.58
SHOP CRANE Ov.H.
114.87	117.27	119.67
STL. FABR.1ST C.
118.22	120.62	123.02
127.81
426.85
125.89
124.94
125.42
123.14
120.98
123.98 122.07
125.42
131 .01 134.21 130.05 133.25 129.09 132.29
128.14 131.34
128.62	131.82
126.34 129.54
124.18	127.38
127.18	1 30.38 125.27 128,47
128.62	131.82
71
STL FABR. 2ND C.
117.10	119.50 LEADWELDER
119.18	121.58 LEADSCALE
119.18	121.58 LEAD BROWN HOIST
119.18	121.58 BLKSMITHS 1 ST CL,
118.22	120.62 BLKSMITHS 2ND CL
117.10	119.50 LEADHANDWOOD
120.61	123.01 PAINTERS 1ST CL.
117.26	119.66
SWEEPER 112.58	114.98
MINE CAR REPAIRMAN
116.88	119.28
LEADHAND CAR SHOP
119.17	121.57
LEADHAND TUB SHOP
118.80 121.20 SCALE REPMEN 1ST C.
118.22	120.62 LEAD PLUMBER/PAINTER
118.22	120.62 APPRENT. SPECIAL - TO 24
112.58	114.98
AFTER 42 MOS.
116.78	119.18
AFTER 36 MOS.
115.62	118.02 AFTER 30 MOS.
114.51	116.91
AFTER 24 MOS.
113.36	115.76
AFTER 18 MOS.
112.22	114.62
AFTER 12 MOS.
111.09	113.49
121.90	124.30
123.98	126.38
123.98	126.38
123.98	126.38
123.02	125.42
121.90	124.30
125.41	127.81
122.06	124.46
117.38	119.78
121.68	124.08
123.97	126.37
123.60	126.00
123.02	125.42
123.02	125.42 MONTHS
117.38	119.78
121.58	123.98
120.42	122.82
119.31	121.71
118.16	120.56
117.02	119.42
115.89	118.29
72
127.50
129.58
129.58
129.58 128.62
127.50
131.01
127.66
122.98
127.28
129.57
129.20
128.62
128.62
122.98 127.18
126.02 124.91 123.76 122.62 121.49
130.70
132.78
132.78
132.78
131.82
130.70
134.21
130.86
126.18
130.48
132.77
132.40
131.82
131.82 126.18 130.38
129.22 128.11 126.96
125.82 124.69
AFTER 6 MOS.
109.98	112.38	114.78	117.18
APPEN -1 ST 6 MON
108.84	111.24	113.64	116.04
ELECTRICAL 2ND CL.
117.74	120.14	122.54	124.94
ELECTRICAL 1 ST CL.
118.69	121.09	123.49	125.89
ELECT HELP.1ST CL.
115.05	117.45	119.85	122.25
ELECT. HELP. 2ND CL
113.42	115.82	118.22	120.62
LEADHAND FIT & FABR
120.14	122.54	124.94	127.34
CABLE REPAIRS
118.69	121.09	123.49	125.89
LABOUR 112.58	114.98	117.38	119.78
PLUMBER 1ST CLASS
117.26	119,66	122.06	124.46
LEADHAND IRON WORKERS
119.65 122.05 124.45 126.85 CARPENTERS- 1 ST CLASS
117.26	119.66	122.06	124.46
CARPENTER - 2ND CLASS
116.30	118.70	121.10	123.50
IRON WORKERS - 1 ST CLASS
117.74	120.14 122.54 124.94 IRON WORKERS - 2ND CLASS
116.78	119.18 121.58 123.98 WELDERS - 1 ST CLASS
118.22	120.62 123.02 125.42 WELDERS - 2ND CLASS
115.84	118.24 120.64 123.04 BRICKLAYERS & MASONS - 1 ST CLASS
117.74	120.14 122.54 124.94 LABOURERS
112.58	114.98	117.38	1.19.78
PATTERN MAKER
118.69	121.09	123.49	125.89
120.38
119.24
128.14
129.09 125.45 123.82 130.54
129.09
122.98
127.66 130.05
127.66 126.70
128.14 127.18 128.62
126.24
128.14
122.98
129.09
73
123.58
122.44
131.34
132.29 128.65 127.02 133.74
132.29 126.18
130.86 133.25
130.86 129.90
131.34 130.38 131.82
129.44
131.34 126.18
132.29
HELPER - after 3 YRS
113.98	116.38 118.78
HELPER - 1 St 3 YRS
113.42	115.82 118.22
121.18	124.38 127.58
120.62 123.82 127.02
VICTORIA JUNCTION COAL PREPARATION PLANT
JAN 1 J U L Y 1
1990	1990
LEAD HAND ELECT.
118.80 121.20 ELECT. 1 ST CL.
118.69	121.09 ELECT. 2ND CL.
117.74	120.14
LEAD HAND MECH.
118.82 121.22 MECHANIC 1 ST CL.
116.89	119.29 MECHANIC 2ND CL.
113.93	116.33
WELDER 1 ST CL.
118.22	120.62 WELDER 2ND CL.
115.84	118.24
OPERATOR NO 1
118.69	121.09 OPERATOR NO 2
116.89	119.29 INSTRUMENT ELECT
118.69	121.09 CONT. ROOM OPER.
118.69	121.09 HEAVY MED. CNTL.OPR.
116.89	119.29 FIRST FLOOR OPER.
116.89	119.29 BALL MILL OPER.
116.89	119.29 BIRD CENT. OPER.
116.89	119.29
JAN 1 1991
123.60
123.49 122.54 123.62
121.69 118.73 123.02 120.64
123.49
121.69
123.49
123.49
121.69
121.69
121.69
121.69 74
JULY 1 JAN 1 JULY 1 1991	1992	1992
126.00 129.20 132.40
125.89	129.09 132.29
124.94	128.14	131.34
126.02 129.22 132.42
124.09	'127.29 130.49
121.13 124.33 127.53 125.42 128.62 131.82
123.04	126.24	129.44
125.89	129.09 132.29
124.09	,127.29 130.49
125.89	129.09 132.29
125.89	129.09	132.29
124.09	127.29 130.49
124.09	127.29 130.49
124.09	127.29	130.49
124.09	127.29	130.49
THICKNER OP.
116.89	119.29 FROTH CELL OP.
116.89	119.29 WASH HSE. AT-TEN.
112.58	114.98 BOOM TRUCK OP.
114.86	117.26
FIRE PREV. CO-OD.
116.89	119.29 PLUMBER 1 ST CL.
117.26	119.66
LABOURER
112.58	114.98
121.69	124.09	127.29
121.69	124.09 127,29
117.38	119.78	122.98
119.66	122.06	125.26
121.69	124.09	127.29
122.06	124.46	127.66
117.38	119.78 122.98
130.49
130.49 126.18 128.46
130.49 130.86 126.18
NOTE: Chargehand and Lead Hand at Victoria Junction Coal Preparation Plant 20 cents per hour and 10 cents per hour respectively, on same basis as that presently paid at Central Shops, Glace Bay.
PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME
a) Time and one-half for overtime and double time for Sundays and legal Holidays will be paid to all classes of labour employed at the Victoria Junction Coal Preparation Plant. This does not apply to continuous service men nor to employees supplying for absentees.
(b) Double time will be paid for all hours worked on Sundays and Statutory Holidays in cases where the employee actually works in excess of the standard hours for the week during which the relevant Sunday or Holiday falls, and not otherwise.
INTERNATIONAL PIER
JAN 1 JULY 1 JAN 1 J U L Y 1 JAN 1 JULY 1 1990	1990	1991	1991	1992	1992
MECH. QUAL 1 ST CL.
116.89	119.29	121.69	124.09	127.29	130.49
WELDERS 1 ST CL.
118.22	120.62	123.02	125.42	128.62	131.82
75
PIERMAN
116.89	119.29	121.69	124.09	127.29	130.49
ELECT. 1 ST CL.
118.69	121.09	123.49	125.89	129.09	132.29
PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME
Time and one-half for overtime and double time for Sundays and legal Holidays will be paid to all classes of labour employed in this Department. This does not apply to continuous service men nor to employees supplying for absentees.
SECURITY
JAN 1 JULY 1 JAN 1 1990	1990	1991
JULY 1 JAN 1 JULY 1 1991	1992	1992
SEC. DATAL BASIC
112.58	114.98 117.38
SECUR 21 ST 60TN S.
113.15	115.55 117.95
SECUR. AFTER 60 S.
114.65	117.05 119.45
119.78	122.98	126.18
120.35	123.55	126.75
121.85	125.05	128,25
PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME
Payment for overtime will be made in accordance with the provisions of the Canada Labour Code.
RAILWAY SECTION
JAN 1 JULY 1 1990	1990
JAN 1 JULY 1 1991	1991
JAN 1 JULY 1 1992	1992
SECT. MAN 1 ST CL.
113.92	116.32	118.72	121.12
SNOW. MACH OP.
118.00	120.40	122.80	125.20
SNOW PLOW FOR.
122.88	125.28	127.68	130.08
124.32 127.52 128.40 131.60 133.28 136.48
76
TIE TAMPER OP.
110.72
TELEKRUISER OP.
117.12 BURNER 114.40
121.12 123.52
119.52 121.92 116.80 119.20
GAS CAR OP.
114.40	116.80 119.20
HI-RAIL DUMP TRUCK OPERATOR 114.88	117.28 119.68
SHIPPER
114.48	116.88
TRACK PATROL
115.92	118.32
BALLAST MACH OP.
116.72	119.12
119.28
120.72
121.52
SPEED SWING OP.
117.12	119.52 121.92
HOESCH RERAIL. OP.
116.48	118.88 121.28
125.92
124.32 121.60
121.60
122.08
121.68
123.12
123.92
124.32 123.68
129.12	132.32
127.52	130.72
124.80	128.00
124.80	128.00 125.28 128.48
124.88	128.08 126.32 129.52
127.12	130.32
127.52	130.72
126.88	130.08
PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME FOR SECTIONMEN:
Time and one-half for overtime and double time for Sundays and Legal Holidays will be paid to all classes of labour specified in the Schedule of Rates. This does not apply to continuous service men nor to employees supplying for absentees.
77
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 1
June 18, 1977
Mr.Wm. Marsh
President, District No. 26
United Mine Workers of America
P.O. Box 129
Glace Bay, Nova Scotia
B1A5V2
Dear Mr. Marsh:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date to the effect that the Corporation gives its assurance that no employee of the Bargaining Unit, having once commenced his regularly rostered shift, will be sent home due to a cessation of regular operations elsewhere within the Corporation provided sufficient work is available to permit the employee to continue with his normal duties and responsibilities for the remainder of the shift and it is within the control of management of the respective unit to allow him to do so.
Yours very truly,
John Bardswich Vice President
Cape Breton Development Corporation [Coal Division)
I concur
William H, Marsh
President, District No. 26
United Mine Workers of America
78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 2
June 18, 1977
Mr. Wm. Marsh
President, District No. 26
United Mine Workers of America
P.O. Box 129
Glace Bay, Nova Scotia
B1A5V2
Dear Mr. Marsh:
This will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties in the matter of assessment of vacation eligibility for employees of the bargaining unit.
Effective January 1977 every employee having less than the maximum annual vacation entitlement of twenty (20) days because of not being able to meet the basic 2 for 23 formula (subsection 4 page 60 assessment of vacation of the current agreement) shall receive one (1) additional days’ vacation with pay provided the days of actual work are not less than 12. The maximum additional vacation with pay to any employee shall be limited to one (1) day.
Yours very truly,
John Bardswich
Vice President
Cape Breton Development Corporation (Coal Division)
I concur
William H. Marsh
President, District No. 26
United Mine Workers of America
79
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3
1989/06/1 5
Mr. J. Burke, President United Mine Workers of America P.O. Box 129, Giace Bay, N.S.
B1A5V2
Dear Sir:
The following replaces 7 (a) of Article 7, Equitable Sharings of Overtime, page 5, Memorandum of Agreement dated June 18, 1977. It shall become effective on the second Sunday following ratification of the Collective Agreement.
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto to the effect that overtime shifts shall be equitably shared on a weekly basis among qualified employees in a section. In this regard, the Corporation will post an overtime roster by 4:00 p.m. on Thursday of each week listing the names of employees scheduled for weekend overtime shifts. Any employee whose name is not on the list, but who feels it ought to be, must make his protest known to the Manager or his designate within a reasonable time to allow for re-rostering or else forfeit all claims to the overtime shift(s) for that week.
The parties further agree as follows:
1 .That for purposes of this Agreement, an overtime shift means extra shift(s) on Saturday or Sunday in a section where work is performed regularly on a Monday to Friday schedule and for which no employee is scheduled as part of his regular 5-day a week roster. In those circumstances, a qualified employee shall be entitled to his own place for the extra shift.
80
2.	That in an emergency, which shall include employee absenteeism and work arising from circumstances not foreseen up to the time of posting the overtime roster, the Corporation may, without penalty, Utilize and deploy any employee already at work rather than having to call out additional employees.
3.	That the current practice of employees returning to work on Sunday tofinish up an overtime job begun on Saturday shall continue to apply at those same locations.
4.	That with respect to the Victoria Junction Coal Preparation Plant and International Piers current scheduling may dictate a day other than Thursday as the most appropriate day for posting of overtime roster.
5.	That nothing herein contained shall, in any manner whatsoever, restrict or negate the Corporation’s right to roster employees in accordance with the provision of Article 5 ( hours of Work) in the Collective Agreement.
If concur, please indicate in the space provided Yours truly,
R.W. MacKenzie
Vice President Human Resources
I Concur
J. Burke, President, UMWA
81
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 4
June 13, 1979
Mr. Wm. Marsh
President, District No. 26
United Mine Workers of America
P.O. Box 129
Glace Bay, Nova Scotia
B1A5V2
Dear Mr. Marsh:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date, between the parties signatory hereto, to the effect that the parties recognize and accept that, in their common interest, positive steps must be jointly taken to reduce the burden of Worker-men’s Compensation costs to the industry, and to that end agree to form a committee comprised of representatives from the senior level of the Corporation and Union which shall meet on a regular basis to deal with the situation.
If you agree, please indicate in the space below.
Yours very truly,
John Bardswich
Vice President
Cape Breton Development Corporation (Coal Division)
I concur
William H. Marsh
President, District No. 26
United Mine Workers of America
82
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 5
Joe Burke
President, District No. 26, United Mine Workers of America P.O. Box 129 Glace Bay, Nova Scotia B1A 5V2
RE: CORPORATION POLICY RESPECTING EMPLOYMENT OF DISABLED EMPLOYEES
Dear Sir:
This letter confirms that the Corporation will continue, within reasonable bounds and consistent with its established practice and its obligations pursuant to the Employment Equity Act, Bill C-62 (proclaimed August 13, 1986), to re-employ and/or transfer disabled employees to job vacancies within the bargaining unit for which they are qualified.
it is further understood and agreed that the parties hereto shall jointly undertake a serious review of the matter of job stations and the feasibility of designating same within the terms of the Collective Agreement,
If you agree with the foregoing, please indicate in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,
W. Terry Lineker
Vice-President, Human Resources I agree Joe Burke
President, District No. 26, UMWA January 9, 1987
83
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 6
Mr. Joe Burke President
District No. 26, United Mine Workers of America P.O. Box 129
Glace Bay, Nova Scotia, B1A 5V2 Dear Sir:
RE: CORPORATION PENSION BOARD MEETINGS
This letter will confirm the understanding reached today between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above mentioned matter, to the effect that the Corporation agrees to recognize a person designated by the Union to represent the best interest of the employees when the Pension Board is dealing with applications for Compassionate Disability Benefits from employees represented by District No. 26, United Mine Workers of America.
It is understood the President, District No. 26, United Mine Workers of America, will have the right to designate the person best suited to represent the employee being considered for Compassionate Disability Benefits
If you agree with the foregoing, please indicate in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,
W. Terry Lineker
Vice-President. Human Resources I agree,
Joe Burke
President, District 26
United Mine Workers of America
January 9, 1987
84
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING No. 7
Mr. Joe Burke
President, District No. 26
United Mine Workers of America
P.O. Box 129
Glace Bay, Nova Scotia
B1A5V2
RE: CORPORATION HIRING POLICY
This letter confirms the understanding between the U.M.W. of A., District 26, and the Corporation that the Corporation agrees to continue, to the extent that such practice does not conflict with the Corporation’s hiring policy, its statutory obligations including those under the Employment Equity Act., Bill C-62 (proclaimed on August 13, 1986) and its obligations under the current Collective Agreement, to give a preference in hiring to applicants for employment whose parent or guardian is either currently employed, pensioned or, if deceased, was at the time of death an employee or in receipt of an income from the Corporation or its immediated predecessor Company.
Yours very truly,
W. Terry Lineker
Vice-President, Human Resources January 9, 1987
85
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 8
March 4, 1985
Mr. John J. Campbell
President, District No. 26
United Mine Workers of America
P.O. Box 129
Glace Bay, Nova Scotia
B1A5V2
Dear Sir:
RE: EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIANS AND FIRST AID
This letter will confirm the understanding reached today between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Corporation agrees that at least one qualified Emergency Medical Technician will be on duty during every shift when twenty (20) or more U.M.W. of A. employees are working underground in either of the Corporation’s two operating collieries; provided, however, that, in the event no such technician is available during any such shift for reasons beyond the Corporation’s control, the Corporation will ensure that at least one person holding a valid First Aid Certificate is on duty instead; and further provided that no existing practices or provisions in respect of Emergency Medical Technicians will be diminished.
By September 1, 1985, the Corporation will provide three (3) Emergency Medical Technicians for the Lingan-Phalen Project; i.e. one (1) for each 8-hour shift.
During non-production shifts. Emergency Medical Technicians may be required to perform other tasks provided such other work does not interfere with the prompt adminstration of medical treatment,
86
/our signature in the space provided will confirm the Union’s con-;urrence with this understanding.
/ours very truly,
3arl Turner
/ice President, Human Resources concur,
John J. Campbell
President, District No. 26
United Mine Workers of America
87
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 9
March 4, 1985
Mr. John J. Campbell
President, District No. 26, United Mine Workers of America P.O. Box 129, Glace Bay, Nova Scotia B1A5V2
Dear Sir:
RE: EXTENDED HOURS OF WORK
This will confirm the understanding reached today between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above mentioned matter.
The Union and the Corporation agree that, commencing prior to December 31, 1985, they will meet to discuss changes to shift schedules of U.M.W. of A. employees in such manner as will provide for extended hours of work conducive to more effe-cient safe coal production; it being understood and agreed that any such changes may be effected only in strict compliance with Cananda Labour Code provisions and regulations governing hours of work. This shall require the concurrence of the District Executive and a ratification by a majority of the members at the operating sites where such extended hours are proposed.
It is further understood and agreed that by the expression “extended hours of work” the parties mean, for example, four 12-hour shifts followed by four days off.
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union’s concurrence with this understanding.
Yours very truly,
Carl Turner, Vice-President, Human Resources I concur,
John J. Campbell, President, District 26, UMWA
88
.ETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 10
lune 9, 1985
Ar. John J. Campbell
‘resident, District No. 26
Jnited Mine Workers of America
\0. Box 129
Blace Bay, Nova Scotia
51A5V2
Dear Sir:
3E: DONKIN-MORIEN
Vhenever coal is extracted from the Donkin-Morien Develop-nent Project for the purpose of sampling to determine the feasibility of going ahead with the development of a coal producing colliery, such work shall be done by employees who are members of the United Mine Workers of America No. 26.
t is recognized that if and when Donkin-Morien becomes a coal Droducing colliery, the Union shall have jurisdiction.
Yours very truly,
Joe Shannon
Chairman
I concur,
John J. Campbell President, District 26, UMWA
89
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 11
Mr. Joe Burke President District No. 28
United Mine Workers of America P.O. Box 129 Glace Bay, Nova Scotia B1A 5V2
Deer Sir:
RE: JOINT TRADES COMMITTEE
This letter confirms the agreement between the U.M.W. of A. District No. 26, end the Cape Breton Development Corporation that a Joint Trades Committee comprised of Union end Management representatives will be set up not later than one month after the date of ratification of this Collective Agreement to study the issue of the consolidation of wage rates within trade areas.
Yours very truly,
W. Terry Lineker Vice-President District No. 26
United Mine Workers of America
05-01-87
90
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 12 1989/04/27
Mr. J. Burke, President
United Mine Workers of America
P.O. Box 129
Glace Bay, Nova Scotia
B1A 5V2
Dear Sir:
This will confirm the understanding of Article 16 regarding Re-Eirnployment of Officers.
The Corporation will recognize for pension purposes under its h Jon-Contributory Pension Plan end its Compassionate Disabil-ii y Pension Plan, any full time service in elected or appointed 1 Jnion positions.
li ■ is further understood all other eligibility requirements under s uch plans are complied with by the employees
> ‘ours very truly,
F }.W. MacKenzie \ 'ice President, Human Resources
I concur:
I. Burke, President UMWA
91
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 13
1990/12/13
Mr. Joe Burke, President
United Mine Workers of America
P.O. Box 129, Glace Bay, Nova Scotia, B1A 5V2
RE; OVERTIME MEALS
Deer Mr Burke:
This letter will confirm the discussion held at our meeting on February 16, 1990. You indicated clarification was required es to whet circumstances entitle employees to an overtime meal. Following is the Corporation’s understanding and commitment: Employees who are scheduled to work overtime shift(s) or \ rostered days off must make provision for their own lunch I
Employees who are offered and agree towork two (2) hours > or more into the next shift immediately following theii r regular shift quitting time will be provided an overtime *, meal.
Employees who work twelve (12) hour shifts, either on s I planned or unplanned overtime basis, will be provided ar i overtime meal.
Employees who stay between shifts end work two (2) hours i overtime (crumbs) are not entitled to an overtime meal
It is understood, however, that in the event the above situation occurs, and the employees are delayed, in excess of one hour, getting out of the mine due to transportation problems, then an overtime meal will bo provided.
In the event it is impractical to provide a meal to an employee(s) so qualified, (such as a restaurant closing hours during back shift, etc.) then the employee(s) will be
92
provided a meal chit to the value of seven dollars end fifty cents ($7.50).
In summary, it will be the policy of the Corporation to provide overtime meals to employees who qualify under the above-noted circumstances. It is not the intent to pay the money in lieu thereof.
Additionally, it should be pointed out that overtime meals will not be provided to continuous service employees working 10 or 12 hour shifts or to employees working on “call-out”.
If you concur with these provisions, kindly indicate by signing below.
Yours very truly,
R.W. MacKenzie
Vico President, Human Resources
I concur:
, i. Burke, President UMWA
93
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING No. 14
District 26, United Mine Workers of America and
Cape Breton Development Corporation
Re; SECTIONMEN:
As a result of the 1989 merger of bargaining units, Section-men, who were covered by a separate Collective Agreement, subsequently agreed on a Memorandum of Agreement signed January 13, 1988, copy attached.
It is agreed that when the parties finalize a new Collective Agreement during the current collective bargaining session, the following items-from the Memorandum of Agreement, January 13, 1988, will form part of the new Collective Agreement and apply specifically to Sectionmen only.
Rates of Pay
Vacation Entitlement
Seniority — unless otherwise revised by
mutual agreement between the parties.
Floating Holiday
94
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 15
1989/12/20
Mr. Joe Burke, President
United Mine Workers of America
P.O. Box 129
Glace Bay, Nova Scotia
B1A5V2
Dear Mr. Burke:
RE: EARLY RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PLAN AND SEVERANCE PAY
This letter confirms the understanding reached today between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above mentioned matters.
The Corporation agrees that if further workforce reductions are required during the term of this agreement, it will provide an Early Retirement Incentive Program (E.R..LP). The goal of this program is to achieve the required workforce reductions on a voluntary basis and thereby reduce the need for displacement of other employees.
Early Retirement Incentive Plan
Eligibility Factors:
All employees of the Corporation represented by the United Mine Workers of America, District26 shall be considered on the basis of a points factor system. An employees total points will be determined by adding their current age to the number of years of continuous service with the Corporation. The Corporation will determine the eligible point level based on the number of surplus employees, but in no circumstances will the point level be set at loss than seventy-live (75).
95
The calculation of continuous service, for those employees referred to above who were formerly employed at the Broughton Mine, will include their years of service with that employer for the purpose of eligibility.
In the event that the number of applications exceeds the number of employees declared surplus, the Corporation will provide the E.R.I.P. tothe number declared surplus ortothe greater number as • the Corporation deems appropriate. It is also understood and 'agreed that the Corporation reserves the right to limit the number of employees who will be placed on E.R.I.P. and where limiting is required, those with the highest number of total points (age and service combined) will receive first entitlement, with greater service taking preference in the event of equal points.
Benefit level and other requirements:
The current maximum allowable benefit under the E.R.I.P. is $1,521.51 per mojijh and the benefit level will be indexed annually on May 1 using the formulae applicable to other dorporation Pension Plans. Before receiving any benefit underthe E.R.I.P., all approved applicants will be required to apply for and exhaust all Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which they are entitled. While in receipt of U.I.C. benefits, applicants will receive the Supplementary Unemployment Benefit as per the Collective Agreement. On exhaustion of U.I.C. benefits, E.R.I.P. memberswill be required to apply for disability benefits under the Canada Pension Plan and to complete the C.C.P. form "Authorization to Communicate Information’. Employees entitled to receive C.C.P. disability benefits shall receive a maximum monthly allowance of $925.65 (also indexed annually). Those persons who do not receive disability benefits under C.C.P. will receive the maximum benefit of $1,521.51 per month. Where circumstances permit and approved applicants exercise their option to receive a reduced retirement benefit under the Canada Pension Plan, they will not have their E.R.I.P. payments reduced by any amount related to these pensions. All approved applicants will have their benefit from the Corporation reduced on a dollar for dollar basis for any Automatic Assumption payment they are receiving in excess of $250.00 per month.
96
Persons on the E.R.I.P. Program will be eligible to purchase coal atthe rate specified in the Collective Agreementfor Pre-Retirement Leave Pensioners.
Those persons under age 55 who volunteer for and are placed on the Plan will have their monthly benefit reduced for every year by which their age is less than 55 on the same basis as the Canada Pension Plan is reduced for early retirement. This reduced benefit will be indexed on the same basis as the maximum payable benefit. The reduction will be calculated from the date the first payment is made under the Plan.
The benefit will be payable until an employee reaches 65 years of age when normal retirement benefits will apply.
Group Plan Benefits:
All group health benofits (excluding dental) will remain in force until age 65. Life insurance coverage will be reduced to $5,000 until age 65.
Terms and Conditions:
In addition to those set forth above, the following terms and conditions shall apply to the Corporation’s offer herein to establish an E.R.I.P.
(1)	The Union agrees with the Corporation that there will be no additions to the bargaining unit to replace people who accept the E.R.I.P., that management has the right to re-assign remaining members ofthe bargaining unitto perform work required, and that, if necessary, such re-assignment may entail the re-classification of jobs. The Corporation will make such determinations in consultation with the bargaining unit.
(2)	New job classifications created pursuant to (1) above will be subject to the negotiation of wage rates during the term of the Agreement.
97
Recall Rights and Severance Pay
In the event that the required reduction of surplus employees is not achieved by the E.R.I.P., employees who will be subject to lay-off or displacement will be given recall rights to their original work site for a period equivalent to their length of service or thirty-six (36) months, whichever is the lesser.
When the requirements of operations dictate, employees with recall rights to the original site will be recalled in the reverse order of lay-off or displacement subjectto the ability, training and skill of the individuals to perform the normal requirements of the job.
The Corporation agrees to pay a severance allowance to an employee who is laid off for the lack of work and is no longer entitled to recall rights. The Corporation further agrees to pay a severance allowance to an employee who is laid off for lack of work and elects to forfeit recall rights and permanently terminate employment.
The severance allowance payable in each case will be determined as follows:
(a)	For the first year of service, severance pay equivalent to three
(3)weeks pay at the applicable datal rate.
(b)	For each year of completed service thereafter, severance pay equivalent to two (2) weeks pay at the applicable datal rate.
Notwithstanding the above, no employee entitled to a severance allowance shall receive less than eight (8) weeks severance pay at the applicable datal rate and no more than sixteen (16) weeks severance pay at the applicable datal rate.
General
In as much as the E.R.I.P. and the severance plan would be intended to m inimize the impact of the termination of employment of employees, the benefits underthese programs shall be deemed
98
the maximum which might otherwise be available under provisions of any adjustment program pursuant to sections 214 to 226 of the Canada Labour Code, which sections, for the purpose of early retirement incentives and severance allowances provisions, shall not apply in respect of employees in the bargaining unit.
Yours Sincerely
R. W. MacKenzie Vice-President Human Resources
99