COLLECTIVE
SOURCE	CW*					
EFF.	?7			*?
TERM.	n		/a	3/
No. Of EMPLOYEES				
NOmBRE D'EMPl.OYiS		1 kfe-		
AGREEMENT
between
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION {COAL DIVISION)
and
CANADIAN UNION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES LOCAL 2046
Expires December 31, 1988
^19 1987
00187(02)
INDEX
Preamble	Page
Article	1	-	Security of Employment.................. 2
Article	2	-	Regularity of Work...................... 3
Article	3	-	Management.............................. 3
Article	4	-	Union Activities........................ 3
Article	5	-	Union Security.......................... 4
Article	6	-	Recognition............................. 5
Article	7	-	Employment Status....................... 5
Article	8	-	Transfers and Seniority Outside
Bargaining Unit .......................... 6
Article 9	-	Grievance Procedure.................... 7
Article 10	- Arbitration.............................. 8
Article 11	-	Contributory Pension Plan.............. 9
Article 12 - Labour-Management Bargaining
Relationships............................. 9
Article 13 -	Correspondence.......................... 10
Article 14 -	Statutory Holidays...................... 10
Article 15 -	Bereavement Leave....................... 11
Article 16 -	Sick Leave.............................. 12
Article 17 -	Group Insurance Benefits................ 15
Article 18 -	Vacations .............................. 15
Article 19-	Leave of Absence ....................... 16
Article 20 -	Jury Duty .............................. 17
Article 21 -	Compassionate Lump Sum	Payment........ 17
Article 22 -	Alcoholism and Drug Addiction........... 18
Article 23 -	No Grievance to be Taken	Up When
Mine is Idle in Violation of Agreement .... 18
Article 24 -	Strikes, Lockouts, Etc.................. 18
Article 25 -	Safety and Health ...................... 19
Article 26 -	Miscellaneous........................... 19
Article 27 -	Hours of Work, Overtime................. 20
Article 28 -	Salaries and Classifications............ 22
Article 29 -	Assignments............................. 23
Article 30 -	Supplementary Unemployment Benefits. . . 24
Article 31 -	Shift Differentials..................... 25
Article 32 -	Weekend Premium......................... 25
Article 33 -	Underground Premium..................... 26
Article 34 -	Retirement Allowance ................... 26
Article 35 -	Death Benefit for Pensioners ........... 26
Article 36 -	Obligations............................. 27
Article 37 - General - Negotiation during Term of
Agreement.......................
-Duration .......................
Appendix “A” ..............................
Appendix "B” ..............................
Appendix “C” ..............................
Letters of Understanding...................
27
27
29
30 32 34
PREAMBLE
WHEREAS the Cape Breton Development Corporation was set-up because of the long and severe decline of the coal industry in Cape Breton, and
WHEREAS Devco and the Union agree that this decline can now be stopped, but to achieve this will require greatly increased productivity and a basis for reducing the operating losses paid by the Treasury of Canada and thereby justifying the investment of Federal funds in the maintenance, improvement and development of mines, and
WHEREAS Devco and the Union share the objective of improving wages and working conditions to the maximum extent compatible with security of employment, and WHEREAS Devco and the Union recognize that such security of employment depends on good working practices to utilize machinery efficiently, enhance safety and yield high productivity,
THEREFORE Devco and the Union make the following agreement:
ARTICLE 1 - SECURITY OF EMPLOYMENT
1.01	Any man who was on the books of Devco on 1st of April, 1968, will not be removed from the books unless offered reasonable alternative employment, subject to the following conditions.
(a)	The above undertakingin noway limitsthe right of Devco, because of its responsibility for the safe and efficient conduct of operations, to suspend or dismiss any man for cause.
(b)	The above undertaking in no way qualifies the responsibility of Devco temporarily to reduce or suspend a particular operation or part of an operation if such action is necessary to the satisfactory conduct and development of the mining operations as a whole within the funds provided by the Parliament of Canada.
C) The above undertaking in no way qualifies the right of Devco to lay off men if abnormal circumstances so require, but Devco will make every reasonableeffort to ensure that a full forty hours’ work in each week is available to all men who comply with the rules of regular attendance described in the next clause.
1
ARTICLE 2 - REGULARITY OF WORK
2.01	Devco and the Union agree that conscientious and regular work is essential to the agreed objectives of maintaining employment at good wages, and both parties therefore recognize that absenteeism is a serious obstacle to their objectives.
2.02	Accordingly, Devco and the Union agree that it is a condition of continued employment that no man will be absent from a scheduled shift, other than for reasons (such as sickness, compensable accident or welfare) already known to Devco, unless he gives the supervisor/department manager’s office notice of his intended absence, along with a reason satisfactory to management, at least one hour before the starting time of the scheduled shift.
2.03	A man who has been absent, for any reason other than one where the precise period of the absence was arranged in advance, must ensure that the supervisor/department manager’s office is informed of his intended return to work at least two hours before the starting time of the shift, and if such notice has not been given he will be sent home.
2.04	Any man who fails to give notice of absence, or who fails to establish satisfactory reason for absence, will be interviewed and given a confirming letter, and on repetitionwill have a further interview followed by a confirming letter and any man who is absent on three occasions without notice or without satisfactory reason will be interviewed followed by a confirming letter and a suspension, with pay, for one full shift and will be liable for dismissal.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT
3.01	The union recognizes the right of the Corporation to operate and manage its own business. The Union further recognizes the right of the Corporation to hire, promote, demote, transfer, assign, lay off and suspend or otherwise discipline, and discharge any employee for just cause. Any employee who thinks he has been unjustly dealt with by the Corporation may consider he has a grievance and may have it dealt with in the manner hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION ACTIVITIES
4.01	The Union and the employees covered by this Agreement shall not conduct Union activities during working hours
2
except as in this Agreement, expressly provided, nor shall Union meetings of any kind be held at any time on the premises of the Corporation without prior written consent of the Corporation.
4.02	If the National Representative of the Union servicing this bargaining unit or his nominee wishes to contact one of the union representativesat work concerning some urgent inplant problem relatingto the Agreement, he shall make such requests through the Industrial Relations Officer or Department Head and, providing such meeting will not interfere with the operations, arrangements will be made for such Union representatives to confer in private, when facilities are available, at the premises of the Corporation.
4.03	The Union will provide the Corporation with the names of the Department Stewards and of the Local Chairman and will provide the name of any alternate in the event of substitutions.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY
5.01	Every employee who is a member of the Union at the effective date of this Agreement, or who becomes a member of the Union during the life of the Agreement, shall continue to be a member in good standing of the Union during the life of the Agreement, provided he continues to be eligible as a member. During the life of the Agreement such employee shall have deducted from his wages all dues, levies, fines and assessments authorized by and in accordance with the Construction of the Union and/or By-Laws.
5.02	An employee not a member of the Union, but who occupies a position with the bargaining unit, shall after ninety (90) working days during the term of the CollectiveAgreement become a member of the bargainingunit or cease to perform work that is under the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit.
5.03	All new employees occupying positions within the bargaining unit shall have deducted from their wages a sum equivalent to Union dues in such amount as may from time to time be assessed to their members according to its Constitution and/or By-Laws.
5.04	At the end of each week, the Corporation shall remit by cheque the total of the weekly deductions made, together with a relevantstatement. In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment that an employee already has made
3

to the Union, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the provisions of the Union Constitution and By-Laws, refunds will be made to the employee by the Union.
5.05	Dues Receipts: At the same time that IncomeTax (T-4) slips are made available, the employer shall show the amount of Union dues paid by each Union member in the previous year.
5.06	The Union shall indemnify the Corporation and hold it harmless against any and all liability which may arise by reason of the checkoff by the Corporation of Union dues, levies, fines and assessments from employees' wages in accordance with this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6 - RECOGNITION
$.01 The Corporation recognizes the Canadian Union of Public Employees and its Local 2046 as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent for the employees, described in the Order of Certification dated February3, 1978.
6.02	The Union recognizes that Local 2046 (C.U.P.E.) is comprised of supervisory employees and it shall in noway restrict any employee in the discharge of his customary duties and responsibilities as a supervisor.
6.03	No employee covered ‘by this Agreement shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written agreementwhich may conflict with the terms of this contract.
ARTICLE 7 - EMPLOYMENT STATUS
7.01	The Corporation shall retain the right at all times to maintain an efficient working force. An employee means an
'/ employee coming within the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement and who has satisfactorily completed his probationary period. In the case of a lay-off, the employees retained shall be those who have been employed longest with the Corporation and who have the qualifications to perform the work in a mannersatisfactoryto Management. Recallto work I following such a lay-off shall not occur until after consulta-' tion between both parties and shall be in the order of Corporate seniority provided the employee has the qualifications to perform the work in a mannersatisfactoryto Management.
7.02	Lossof EmploymentStatus: Exceptas otherwise provided in this Agreement, an employee's employmentwith the Corporation shall be terminated upon any one of the following:
4
(a)	He is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated.
(b)	He resigns in writing and does not withdraw within two days.
(c)	He is absent from work in excess of five (5) working days without sufficient cause or without notifying the employer, unless such notice was not reasonably possible.
(d)	He fails to return to work within fifteen (1 5) calendar days following a layoff and after being notified by registered mail to do so. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the employer informed of his current address. An employee recalled for casual work or employment of specified short duration at a time when he is employed elsewhere shall not lose his recall rights for refusal to return to work.
(0
He is laid off for a period equivalent to his length of continuous service with the Corporation or for a period of thirty-six (36) months whichever is the lesser.
Absence extended beyond an authorized vacation period beyond a leave of absence granted by the Corporation where the reasons given for such extended absence are not satisfactory to the Corporation.
7.03	The Corporation shall post a seniority list showing date upon which each employee’s service commenced and current classification by March 31 of each year.
ARTICLE 8 - TRANSFERS AND SENIORITY OUTSIDE BARGAINING UNIT
8.01	No employee shall be transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit without his consent. If an employee is transferred to a position outside of the bargaining unit, he shall retain his seniority accumulated up to the date of leaving the unit, but will not accumulate any further seniority. Any employee shall have the right to return to a position in the lib . bargaining unit during.his trial period, which shall be up to - - a maximum of one (1) year. If an employee returns to the / bargaining unit, he shall, wherever possible, be placed on a job classification in the colliery or department from where he was last transferred which is consistent with his seniority and qualifications.
5
ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	A grievance shall be a difference of interpretation of this Agreement or the violation of the provisions of this Agreement. Every grievance shall be subject to the grievance procedure set out hereunder:
STEP 1: When an employee has a grievance he shall within five (5) working days of the occurrence of the incident giving rise to the grievance, file the grievance in writing on the form attached hereto as “SCHEDULE Y” with the Shift Manager or Department Head, who shall provide him with an answer, in writing, within two (2) working days.
STEP 2: Should the written answer given by the Shift Manager or Department Head not be acceptable to the grievor, then the grievor and his steward shall meet with the designated manager and attempt to resolve the grievance within five (5) working days. The manager shall give his decision, in writing, within seven (7) working days of receipt of the alleged grievance.
STEP 3: Failing settlement at Step 2, the grievance may be appealed by the Local Chairman of the Grievance Committee to the General Manageror his nominee within five working days of delivery of the decision at Step 2. At this step, the General Manager or his nominee, and a representative of the Employee RelationsDepartment shall meet and discuss the grievance with the Local Chairman or his nominee and other representativesof the Union as the Local Chairman shall designate, not to exceed two employee members of the bargaining unit together with a national representative of the union, or his nominee, if he desires to attend. The General Manager will act as Chairman of this step 3 meeting. The two employee members of the bargaining unit may be exceeded from time to time when requested by the Union and the circumstances of the particular grievance require additional representation. The decision of the Corporation at this step shall be renderedwithin ten (10) calendardaysof the delivery of the appeal to the General Manager. Failing settlement of the grievance at Step 3, the matter may then be referred to arbitration within fifteen (15) days of the decision at Step 3. NOTE: Distribution of Replies:
Step 1 - Grievor and Local Chairman Step 2 - Grievor and Local Chairman Step 3 - National Representative and Local Chairman
6
9.02	In the case of a discharge or where a dispute involvings question of general applicationor interpretationoccurs, Step 1 may be bypassed.
9.03	The Corporation may institute a grievance by delivering the same, in writing, to the President of Local Union 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees, and the president shall answer such grievance within seven (7) working days. If the answer is not acceptable to the Corporation, the Corporation may within ten (10) working days from the day the President gives his answer, give ten (10) working days' notice to the president of the Local Union2046, Canadian UnionofPubilc Employees, of itsintentionto referthe dispute to arbitration.
9.04	The time limits, as herein expressed, may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties hereto.
9.05	For purposes of this Article 9 - Sundays, Saturdays, and holidays shall not be counted as working days.
ARTICLE 10 - ARBITRATION
10.01	Notice in writing may be given by one patty to the other, after the foregoing designated procedures have been exhausted, requiringthe unresolvedgrievance to be submitted to arbitration. Insuch cases, the Corporationandthe Union shall each appoint anarbitrator within ten (10) days following the delivery of the written notice calling for arbitration, and these two (2) arbitrators shall endeavour to appoint a third, who shall be Chairman. If the Chairman is not selected by the first two named within fifteen (15) days afterthe delivery of the written notice, then the Chairman shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour, Canada. Management and Union will then submit a written brief to the Arbitration Board.
10.02	The hearing shall be heard in Cape Breton unlessthe partiesotherwise mutuallyagree in writing. Each party shall bearthe remunerationand expenses, if any, of the arbitrator appointed by that party. The remuneration and expenses of the chairman, if any, shall be borne equally by both parties. The Arbitration Board shall render a decisionwithin thirty (30) days after presentation of written briefs, unless there Ba mutual agreement on a postponement.
10.03	In the event a unanimous decision is not reached, the decisionofthe majority shall be the decision of the Board. Should no majority decision be reached, the decision of the
7
Chairman shall be the decision of the Board. In all cases, the decision shall be final and binding upon both parties, but in no case shall the decision alter, modify, or amend any part of this Agreement, or make any other decision in consistent with specific terms of this Agreement.
The Board shall have the authority, in cases where its decision is that the grievor was improperly discharged or suspended, to order his reinstatement.
Any voluntary abandonment of a grievance by either party to the Agreement will not prejudice the processingof a similar grievance entered at a later date provided that the Union has acknowledged, in writing, that they were so abandoning the grievance without decision.
10.04	Although 10.01 and 10.02 hereof providefor written briefs, this is not to be taken to mean that oral argument is precluded during the arbitral process.
ARTICLE 11 - CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN
Eligibility
embership in the Plan shall be mandatory as a condition employmentfor all employeeswho are new to the bargainS fflg unit after February 22, 1987.
A summary of the Contributory Pension Plan is attached as Appendix “B”.
ARTICLE 12 - LABOUR-MANAGEMENT BARGAINING RELATIONS
12.01	Representation
The employer shall not bargain with or enter into any agreement with an employee or group of employees in the bargaining unit. No employee or group of employees shall undertake to represent the union at meetings with the employer without the proper authorization of the Union. In representing an employee or group of employees, an elected or appointed representative of the Unionshall be the spokesman. In order that this may be carried out, the Unionwill supply the employer with the names of its officers. Likewise, the employer shall supply the Union with a list of its supervisory personnel with whom the Union may be required to transact business.
8
12.02	Union Bargaining Committee
A Union bargaining committee shall be elected or appointed and consist of not more than five (5) members of the Union. The Union will advise the employer of the Union nominees to the committee.
ARTICLE 13 - CORRESPONDENCE
13.01	All correspondence between the parties, arising out of this Agreement or incidental thereto, shall pass to and from the Director of Employee Relations and the Secretary of the Union and the National Representative.
ARTICLE 14 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
14.01	Ten paid, holidays shall be granted as follows:
1.	New Year’s Day	6. Labour Day
2.	Good Friday	7. Thanksgiving Day
3.	Victoria Day	8. Remembrance Day
4. Miners’ Memorial Day 9. Christmas Day
5. Canada Day	10. Boxing Day
14.02	The Corporation shall pay one shift to each eligible employee in lieu of an “additional holiday.” If, however, the Federal Government establishes Heritage Day or some other day as a paid statutory holiday, then that day shall become the “additional day” and the shift's pay referred to above will constitute the pay for such “additional holiday”. Eligibility for payment of “additional holiday” shall be determined in the same manner as at present for statutory holidays, counting back from the first day of the Christmas vacation. Until the “additional holiday” is named by Statute, the shift's pay will be included in the Christmas pay.
14.03	When a holiday falls within the vacation period, the employee is entitled to an additional day provided he was entitled to pay for such holiday.
14.04	The holiday rate of pay for employees qualified to receive same shall be one day at the straight time classification rate of the majority of shifts paid in the week in which the holiday occurs. In cases where an equal number of shifts have been worked at different rates or where several rates are paid during the week in which the holiday occurs the rate of pay for the holiday shall be at the average daily straight time classification rate earned in that week.
9
14.05	Provisions governing statutory holidaysshall conform to Partlll of the Canada Labour Code, except that where the Code, in Section56.1(a), refersto “for at leastfifteendays”, this will be reduced to “five days”.
14.06	Employees shall be paid at double the regular classificationrate for all time worked on a paid statutory holiday. The double time paymentis, however, wholly conditional ^*&Upon the employee working all of his remaining regular rostered shifts during the week in which the holiday occurs. 1 In addition to the foregoing, employees shall be paid for the f statuforyTioliday provided the requisite conditions for such payment are met by the employee
An employee who works an overtime shift on Sunday at a surface or colliery location and directly supervises datal paid \ employees receiving double time paymentfor workperform-fjj^ed on Sundaysshall be paid at double the regularclassifica-' tion rate when so employed. This double time payment is, •J however, wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his regular rostered shifts in that particularweek.
Under no circumstancesshall an employee be entitled to payment of the weekend premium in respect of Sundays for which he has been paid double the regular classification rate.

ARTICLE 15 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
15.01	In the event of the death of a spouse or a child, an employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave on any of his regularly rostered shifts, exclusive of overtime, that occur during the four (4) days immediately following the death.
. In the event of the death of a parent, step-parent, mother-in-\ law, father-in-law, brother, sister, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,grandparent, or any relative permanently residing in employee's household or with whom the employee resides, the employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave on any of his regularly rostered shifts that occur during the three (3) days immediatelyfollowing the death.
Any employee referred to in Article 15 who has completed three consecutive months of continuous employment shall be entitled to his bereavementleave with pay at his regular rate of wages for his regular hours 6? work.
10
15.02	An employee who qualifies under 15.01 above shall be entitled to (2) additional days for travel, if bereavement is outside Cape Breton, and such time off is without pay.
ARTICLE 16 - SICK LEAVE
16.01	General - Incumbent Employees Prior to January 1, 1982
(a)	In the event of an employee being absent from work as a result of personal disability due to sickness or accident, such employee, while in the employ of the Corporation, shall continue to receive his normal rate of pay exclusive of premium pay, shift premium or any special allowance to the extent that he is entitled accordingto the applicable provisions of this Collective Agreement and this article.
(b)	Salaries paid under this provision of this article shall be subject to normal and statutory deductions and further reduced by the amounts of any Worker's Compensation payments that may be made to an employeewith respect to the period in which such salary is drawn. For each day off work and receiving Worker's Compensation payments, one-quarter day sick credit will be deducted from the employee's credits. Under no circumstances does an employee on compensation have his payments made up to his salary for more than sixty-six ('66jwork-ing days, or his current entitlement as per Article 16.03 (b) in any calendar year.
The Corporation will pay full salary while an employee is on Workers Compensation for a maximum period of:
(1)	six (6) weeks;
(2)	until Worker's Compensation payments are received by the employee; or
(3)	until exhaustion of sick leave entitlements; whichever comes first.
(c)	Salary continuation is not applicable to self-inflicted illness or injury. Any employee who absents himself from work due to sickness or accident may be required to submit to an examination by doctor appointed by the Corporation. An employee unable because of sickness or injury to attend at work at the beginning of a new calendar year and having worked the last rostered shift prior to Christmas vacation may receive the unused portion of his sick leave left from the previous year.
11
(d)	In all absences, in order to qualify for payment under this section, the employee's attending physician must fill out a Medical Disability Certificate supplied by the Corporation. Such certificate must be submitted to the manager or department supervisor within three working days after return to work. Management reserve the right to investigate any claim of absence to ensure authenticity, and may contact the employee's physician for further information on the employee's illness or injury.
(e)	To qualify for sick leave payment in a particular calendar year, the employee must have worked a minimum of five rostered days during that calendar year.
(f)	Any employee who is off work due to sickness or personal disability at the beginning of a calendar year, and such absence from work is a continuation from the previous calendar year, then the employee will be entitled to continue to use that portionof unused sick credits from the previous calendar year, provided that no employee shall be paid for more than 66 sickdaysinany calendar year.
(g)	An employee who, while on his annual vacation, becomes hospitalized shall have the right to be placed on sick leave and the actual days spent in hospital shall be counted as sick days and not vacation days.
16.02	Sick Leave Credit
Employees who have been members of the bargaining unit prior to the signing of the Memorandum of Settlement will be granted sick credits on the following basis:
Service Requirement
Under 12 months of continuous service Over 12 months of continuous service but under 60 months of continuous service
Over 60 months of continuous service but under 180 months of continuous service
Over 180 months of continuous service I
1 day for each month of service
22 days during a calendar year
44 days during a calendar year
66 days during a calendar year
12
16.03 Sick Leave - New Bargaining Unit Employees Subsequent To January 1, 1982
(a)
(b)
"JJ
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
An employee incumbent in a position with the bargaining unit for six (6) months continuously from his most recent entry into the unit may earn sick leave credits as per Article 16.03 (b) during the six months. The sick leave earned shall be credited to the employee at the expiry of the six months, provided he has worked all of his rostered shifts during the six month period.
Sick leave credits shall accumulate as a privilege at the rate of 1 1A working days for every twenty (20) regularly scheduled 8-hour shifts worked to a maxim urn of 66 days.-Such sick leave shall be paid at the employee's regular rate of pay for an eight (8) hour shift straight time; and further provided that the employee has received prior permission from the manager or designate to be absent from any remaining regularly scheduled shifts in respect of that month effective from the date of his appointment as a member of that bargaining unit.
Any salary paid under Article 16.03 shall be subject to the requirements of 16.01 (b).
An employee receiving Workers' Compensation as a result of injury or accident shall have such Workers' Compensation benefits augmented by pay from the Corporation at the rate of onequarter an earned sick day for each day while on Workers' Compensation, provided that the combined benefits payable under this section shall in no case exceed the employee’s pay for a regularly scheduled eight (8) hour shift after statutory deductions.
In no case shall payment of the combined benefit exceed 100% of his regular salary after statutory deductions. Payment of this combined benefit shall be limited to not more than three (3) months in any twelve (12) month period commencing from the date of disability. In the event of such disability, payments will commence on the first day of layoff on the first disability and on the second day of layoff in all succeeding periods of disability.
In the event of hospitalization, benefits will be paid from the first day of layoff provided that the employee has sick leave days to his credit. In this section, “hospitalization” means that the employee has been admittedto a hospital for a 24-hour period and that the stay in the hospital
13
has been paid for by the Nova Scotia Health Services Commission.
(g)	Within three (3)days of his return to work, an employee must submit to the Corporation a Medical Disability Certificate as supplied by the Corporation and completed by the employee's attending physician. The Corporation reserves the right to request a medical examination of the employee by a physicianappointed by the Corporation and in the event of hospitalization, the Corporation reserves the right to obtain further information on the nature and extent of the illness and recovery from the employee, his physician and/or the hospital.
(h)	It is the intention of this plan to assist employees with their expenses while sick or injured.
(j) Sick leave shall not be paid concurrently with Unemployment Insurance commission benefits.
ARTICLE 17 - GROUP INSURANCE
See Appendix “C”
ARTICLE 18 - VACATIONS
q\/8.01 Paid vacation shall be granted on the following basis:
XJ 1 % days for each 21 days worked. Maximum vacation en-f titlement shall be 20 days in any calendar year.
^ Employees will be paid at their current rates of pay.
18.02	Vacationswill be scheduled to least interfere with the operation of the business of the Corporation and will conform as near as possible with the general period of vacations scheduled by the Corporation. It is understood that, insofar as is practicable,the Corporation will schedule the fourth week of vacation, for employees qualified to receive same, during the period between Christmas Day and the first day of the New Year.
18.03	Vacation credits are established in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which the vacation is normally due to be taken.
18.04	Vacations will be taken in the year they fall due. If, however, employees are requested by managementto work vacationperiod(s) and notenoughtime remainsinthe calendar
14
year for the employee to take his earned vacation in that year, the vacation days not taken shall be put over to the calendar year immediately following and taken at a time mutually convenient to the employee and management.
18.05	For purposes of calculating vacation pay, days worked shall mean paid vacation days, paid statutory holidays, absences from work due to on-the-job injury (for which Workers' Compensation is paid), paid bereavement leave, jury duty absences, authorized absences for union business except those granted under Article 19.02, or an illness or accident for which benefits are received under Article 16 of this Agreement. In no case shall an employee receive credit for more than sixty-six (66) days in any calendar year in respect of the two last-named benefits. Where an employee has no earnings, the aforementioned sixty-six (66) days shall not be applicable.
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	Union Functions
Upon written request to the employer, an employee elected , or appointed to represent the Union at conventions, or to atp tend executive and committee meetingsof C.U.P.E., shall be L allowed leave of absence without pay. This shall be limited to five (5) employees at any one time.
19.02	Leave of Absence for Full-time Union or Public Duties
(a)	The employer recognizesthe right of an employeeto participate in public affairs. Therefore, upon written request, the employer shall allow leave of absence without pay «	or benefits so the employee may be a candidate in
federal, provincial or municipal elections.
'A (b) An employee who is elected to public office, within the ^ context of (a) of this article, shall be allowed leave of absence without loss of seniority during his term of office.
An employee who is elected or selected for a full-time position with the Union shall, provided he is assigned and residing within Cape Breton, be granted leave of absence without loss of seniority for a period of one year. Such leave shall be renewed each year, on request, during his term of office.
15
(d) Employeesgranted leave of absence under Article 19.02
(b)	(c) must return to work within (2) monthsafterthe expiration of such elected position of appointment.
ARTICLE 20 - JURY DUTY
20.01	An employee summoned for jury duty and who is required to lose time from his regular scheduled shift(s) as a
x^yesult thereof shall be paid for actual time lost with a max-kJjSfhum of one basic day’s (8 hours) pay at the straighttime rate I applicable to the classification last performed for each day f lost, less the amount allowed him for jury duty for each day, excluding allowances paid by the Court for meals, lodging or transportation, subject to the following requirements and limitations.
20.02	The Corporation shall be liable for payment only in those cases where the Court recognizes attendance and compensates the employee for same. In all such cases, the Corporation’s financial liability shall be governed by the limitations contained in paragraph 20.01 above.
20.03	An employee must furnish the Corporation with a statement from the Court of jury allowances paid and the days on which jury duty was performed.
20.04	The number of working daysfor which jury duty pay shall be paid is limitedto a maximum of twenty-eight days in any calendar year.
20.05	Nojury duty pay will be allowed for any day for which the employee is in receipt of annual vacation pay or general holiday pay.
ARTICLE 21 - COMPASSIONATE LUMP SUM PAYMENT
21.01	The Corporation shall, subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, make a compassionate lumpsum payment notto exceed $25,000.00 to the widow and wholly dependent childrenof any employeewho is fatally injured at hiswork place.
1.	The maximum sum payable to the widow shall be $10,000.00. In cases where the deceased employee has no surviving widow, thenthe principal sum of$10,000.00 which would otherwise have been payableto the widow shall be made to the legal guardian, if any, for the benefit of the deceased employee's wholly dependent children.
16
2.	The maximum sum payable in respect to wholly dependent children shall be $15,000.00 calculated on the following basis:
(a)	For each wholly dependent child $5,000.00 to a maximum of three children or $15,000.00 total.
(b)	In cases where there are more than three wholly dependent children the amount per child shall be determined by dividing $15,000.00 bythe total number of wholly dependent children.
3.	Any dispute or question which may in the future arise from the interpretationof meaning of the word employee, fatal injury, legal guardian, work place, widow or wholly dependent child, shall be resolved in a context as determined by the Workmen's Compensation Board of Nova Scotia.
ARTICLE 22 - ALCOHOLISM AND DRUG ADDICTION
22.01	Without detracting from the existing rights and obligations of the parties recognized in other provisions of this Agreement, the Corporation and the Union agree to cooperate at the colliery or department level in encouraging employees afflicted with alcoholism or drug addiction to undergo a coordinated program directed to the objectiveof their rehabilitation.
ARTICLE23 - NO GRIEVANCE TO BETAKEN UP WHEN MINE IS IDLE IN VIOLATION OF AGREEMENT
23.01	Under no circumstances shall a grievance be taken up for adjustment during a suspension of work in violation of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 24 - STRIKES, LOCKOUTS, ETC.
24.01	The Corporation agrees that there shall be no lockout and the Union and the employees agree that there shall be no strike, picketing, slowdown of work, either complete or partial curtailment of production or interference with the operations of the Corporation during the life of this Agreement or while negotiations for its amendment or renewal are in progress.
24.02	Upon receipt of any notice pursuantto PartV, Canada Labour Code from the Union of its intention to commence a lawful strike, representativesof the Corporationand the Union
17
shall meet for the purpose of reviewing and determining the extent to which employees, coming within the bargaining unit, will be required to maintain services essential to the safety of the collieries and protection of the Corporation's product and property. Such employees shall not suspend work, but shall, when mining is suspended, fully protect all the Corporation's property under their care.
No member of the bargaining unit shall leave his place of work in any work stoppage situation without first ensuring that all equipment and/or machinery, etc. is shut down in a safe and orderly manner.
ARTICLE 25 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
25.01	It is mutually agreed that both management and Union will cooperate to the fullest possible extent toward the prevention of accidents and the promotion of Safety and Health.
ARTICLE 26 - MISCELLANEOUS
26.01	Tax Deductions
The Corporation agrees to deduct properly taxes when so authorized, in writing, by the employee.
26.02	Credit Union Deductions
The Corporation agrees that deductions will be made for Credit Union when so authorized, in writing, by the employee.
26.03	Price of Coal to Employees
Employees covered by this Agreement shall be governed by the terms negotiatedbetween the Corporation and the major bargaini ng unit.
In any event employees who have been laid off and still have recall rightsshall be extended credit on the purchaseof coal to a maximum of $175.00.
26.04	Safety Apparel
Effective January 1, 1985, the Corporation shall provide, on an as needed basis, safety apparel to active employees, subject to the following conditions:
(a) Safety coveralls, safety work boots and leather work gloves shall be worn by employees at all times in work areas designated by Management.
18
(b)	The Corporation shall provide up to the following maximum per year:
1.	Two (2) pairs of coveralls to each surface employee.
2.	Three (3) pairs of coveralls to each underground employee.
3.	One (1) pair of low cut leather work boots or two (2) pair knee high rubberwork boots to each employee.
4.	Two (2) pairs of leather work gloves to each employee.
(c)	Replacement items shall only be provided free of charge by the Corporation on the basis that damaged or worn-out items to be replaced are turned in to the Corporation.
(d)	The low-cut leather work boots and leather work gloves shall be the kind normally stocked in the Corporation's warehouse.
(e)	Safety apparel shall not be provided for employees in office or other sedentary positions.
(f)	For the purpose of this clause 26.04, the following are not deemed to be active employees:
1.	Persons not working and in receipt of any retirement or disability benefits.
2.	Persons who for any reason have missed more than ninety (90) days' work during the year in which they request safety apparel.
ARTICLE 27 - HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME
, 27.01* The standard hours of work shall be forty (40) hours per week consisting of five (5) straight time eight-hour shifts. X The standard hours of work are exclusive of any time spent H" by the employee either before or after his eight (8) hour shift in making or receiving reports, both oral and written, as required by management. Shift starting times shall be arranged to suit the operating schedule of the collieries and/or departments.
27.02	It will be the responsibility of each employee to comply with the timekeeping system requirements and be at his place of work by the established shift starting time and not leave this place of work until the end of the shift. In the case of underground employees, the last conveyance will leave the rc. ® surface at the shift starting time and itwill bethe responsibility ‘-‘C'j of the employee to be enroute to his work place below the ,	1 jDQjrtal at that time.
19
27.03	During each eight (8) hours shift, an employee is entitled to a lunch break of one period of twenty minutes, at a j time designated by managementwhich will not prejudicethe
overall efficiency of the operation.
27.04	The hours of work shall normally be posted one week in advance of the schedule to be worked.
27.05	A member of the bargaining unit requiredto work four (4) to eight (8) hours of overtime as an extension of his shift
^/and has not been asked to do so priorto the start of that shift a will be, when and where practicable, provided with a lunch, I the cost of which shall be determined by Corporation Policy.
27.06	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime rates for the same hours worked.
27.07	An employee's scheduled hours of work shall not be construed as a guarantee of a minimum or maximum hours of work.
27.08	Employees shall be deemed to be on duty during any period falling within their scheduled hours of work.
27.09	Overtime shifts shall be shared equitably over a period of three months among qualified employees who normally work in the place where the overtime work is required.
27.10	Standard hours shall conform the provisions of the Canada Labour Code.
27.11	Time worked in excess of the standard hours shall be compensated for at the rate of time and one-half (1%) the classification rate for the work performed.
27.12	An employee occupying on a permanent basis a job classificationcoming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit(C.U.P.E. 2046), as described in the Canada LabourRela-tions Board Certification Order dated February 3, 1978, will, subjectto paragraphtwo (2) hereof, be paid at premium overtime (1 % T) rates on the actual minute basiswhen directed by management to attend Planned Maintenance or Cost Analysis meetingscontinuouswith their regular rostered shift hours.
For purposes of the above, premium overtime (11/2 T) rates will commence only after the employee has completed preshift and post-shift reports as required by management.
20
27.13(a) Employees called back to work on irregular hours ! other than immediately following or immediately prior to their regularly rostered shift will be credited with four (4) hours actually worked.
27.13(b) Employees who are called back to work within the meaning of Clause (a) of this article and who subsequently work more than four (4) hours and not more than eight (8) hours will be credited with eight (8) hours actually worked. Premium overtime provision applies in accordance with the Canada Labour Code.
27.14 Employees required by management to attend Arbitration Hearings of Investigations arising out of circumstances initiated by another union, shall be paid on an hour-for-hour basis and such time will be considered as time actually worked by that employee.
In the application of this provision there shall be no overlapping of hours paid.
35-HOUR WEEK POSITIONS
The standard hours of work shall continue to be thirty-five (35) hours per week consisting of five (^straight time 7-hour shifts where concurrently applicable.
ARTICLE 28 - SALARIES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
28.01(a) Effective on date of ratification (February22,1987), all basic rates of pay per eight (8) hour shift are increased by 3.5%.
Effective on date of ratification (February 22, 1987), all classificationswill be paid a supervisory premium of $1.00 per shift worked.
Effective January 1, 1988, all basic rates of pay per eight (8) hour shift are increased by 4.0%.
Effective January 1, 1988, all classifications will be paid a supervisory premium of $2.00 per shift worked.
28.01(b) Re: Colliery Supervisory Classifications “A” and “B” rates: The distinction between the two classifications shall be based upon qualifications ob scope and location of work place as determined by management. For explanation see Appendix “A” attached entitled “Colliery Supervisory “A” and“B” rates, dated November 3, 1981.
21
28.02	Should a new classification be created within the bargaining unit, as indicated in the Certification Order, during the term of this Agreement, the employer and the union will decide the rate of pay. Nothing herein prevents the employer from filling such positions and having employees working in such positionsduring such negotiations. The salary when determinedwill be retroactiveto the date on whichihe employeecommencedwork in that classification, providedthat nothing herein contained shall alter the intentionof the Canada Labour Code.
28.03	Employees shall be paid by cheque every Thursday. If a pay day should coincide with a designated paid holiday, the employee shall be paid on the precedingworking day. The Corporation agrees that employees will be notified of the reason for and the amount of any unusual deductions from pay prior to such deductions being made.
28.04	Management agrees to inform the Union whenever a job vacancy of a permanent nature occurs in any of the job classifications within the bargaining unit as listed in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certification Orderdated the 3rd of February, 1978.
Where a job vacancy of a permanent nature occurs in any surface job classification a job vacancy notice stating the re, quired qualifications and other pertinent information will be ' posted by Management for five (5) day period at the worksite where the vacancy exists in order that the interestedsuper-\ visory personnel in the bargaining unit at the worksite where the vacancy exists may apply for the same.
Should there be no successful applicant from the worksite where the vacancy exists, the Corporation shall post the job vacancy notice at all work sites for an additional five (5) day period. Supervisormethane/degassing shall also be posted.
ARTICLE 29 - ASSIGNMENTS
29.01	When an employee is assigned by management to perform for a temporary period the duties of a higher rated job within the bargaining unit, he shall be paid the rate for the job from the first day of such assignment provided such employee is fully qualified to perform same.
When an employee is assigned by management to perform for a temporary period the duties of a lower rated job (while
22
his own job is working) he shall be paid at his regular rate of pay. If the employee requests such an assignment, he shall receive the rate covering the job.
An employee who is permanently assigned to a lower rated job shall receive the rate of the job from the first day of such assignment.
29.02	When members of the bargaining unit are appointed by management to temporarily replace management personnel, the monthly rate of pay shall be twelve percent (12%) more than the current monthly salary of the employee so temporarily reassigned.The employee shall also be paid at the appropriate overtime rate for all overtime shifts and overtime hours worked in excess of the normal work day hours associated with the management position. The overtime payment shall be calculated on the employee's regular rate of pay. Any such overtime must be authorized by the manager or his designate. It is anticipated that overtime under this provision would be paid only in extraordinary circumstances.
ARTICLE 30 - SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
A Supplementary Unemployment Benefit of fifty dollars and thirty-three cents ($50.33) per week will be paid by the Corporation in the event of downtime in a colliery or department under the following terms and conditions:
11.	The downtime must not have resulted either directly or
indirectly from any action of. any employee covered by this Agreement.
2.	The employee's gross earnings for the weekly pay period
must not have exceeded a sum equal to three times the basic classification rate in effect at the time of the downtime.
3.	The Supplementary Unemployment Benefit will not be paid concurrent with the payment of paid sick leave under Article 16 or monthly income insurance under Article 17 of this agreement or to employee’s on Workers Compensation. (For the purpose of this section only, Indemnity shall also include benefits received under the Unemployment Insurance Sickness Benefit regulations.)
4.	Employeeswho are already receiving benefitsfrom the Unemployment Insurance Commission are jTOt_eligible to receive Supplementary Unemployment Benefit.
23
5.	Payment of Supplementary Unemployment Benefits will be limited to a maximum period of tWelve (12) months.
6.	Downtime shall not include Legal Holidays or Vacation Days.
Escalation
The Supplementary Unemployment Benefit of fifty dollars and thirty-three cents ($50.33) per weekly pay period, as described in the Collective Agreement, shall be escalated annually for cost-of-living increasescommencing January 1, 1988, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases, and, if the aforementioned formula by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the Supplementary Unemployment Benefit is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
ARTICLE 31 - SHIFT DIFFERENTIALS
31.01	Subjectto clauses 31.02, shift differentials shall be paid at the rate of seventeen and one-half cents (17.5) per
W hourfor each hourworked between3:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m.
and thirty-five cents (35.0)per hourfor each hourworked bet-& peen 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
b/h31.02 Shift differential shall not apply to:
(a) Overtime of less than four (4) hours.
)	(b) The calculation of holiday and vacation pay.
(c) Regular rostered day shift hours.
ARTICLE 32 - WEEKEND PREMIUM
32.01	Subject to the conditions enumerated below, an employee shall receive a premium of ten dollars ($10.00) over his regularclassification rate for each of those shifts between 7:00 a.m. on Saturday to 7:00 a.m. on Monday for which he is regularly scheduled and actually works the full eight (8) hours.
(a) The ten dollar ($10.00) premium will not be paid if the weekend shift is a shift in excess of his five (5) normal shifts for that week.
K) (b) /The ten dollar ($10.00) premium will not be paid if the ., //^weekend shift otherwise entitles the employee to V/ Vi<Premiurn overtime pay.
/Si'	24
' r
i ARTICLE 33 - UNDERGROUND PREMIUM
;K33.01 a premium of $3.00 over eight (8) hour shift shall be Ypaid to employees who are employed underground in the Cor-% poration’s several collieries.
(The .underground premium shall not form part of any classification rate.)
ARTICLE 34 - RETIREMENT ALLOWANCE
34.01	A RetirementAllowanceof$839.00 will be paidto each active employee on the date of his normal retirement (age 65) and to disabled pensioned employees on reaching 65 - (not applicable to P.R.L.).
34.02	The retirement allowance of $839.00 shall be escalated annually for cost-of-living increases commencing January 1981, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases, and, if the aforementioned formula shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the retirement allowance is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
ARTICLE 35 - DEATH BENEFIT FOR PENSIONERS
35.01	It is agreed that subject to the exceptions outlined in this article, there will be a deduction of ten (10) cents from each employee and the amount so deducted shall be added to a Corporation payment of $750.00 and paid to the beneficiary upon the death of any person who retired prior to Nov.1,1965, underthe provisionsof the 1923 Pension Plan provided that such persons had no benefits under Current Group Life Insurance Plan. For the purposes of this article, such employees covered shall be those who were on the books of the Dominion Coal Company Limited or Old Sydney Collieries Limited but off work at November 1, 1965, and who became deceased. The beneficiaryshall beconsideredeligible for the Death Benefit as outlined herein.
If the Government accepts responsibility and a Compensation Pension had been paid, or if the former employee is on a “burnt-out” pension, there will be a ten (10) cent deduction from the employees but no $750.00 contribution by the Corporation.
25
^7\s
ARTICLE 36 - OBLIGATIONS	^
36.01	All provisions and terms of this Agreement are hereby mutually agreed to by and between the Cape Breton Development Corporation and all the employeesof Local 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees, and signed by the representatives of the parties hereto, who have been duly authorized to execute the same on behalf of Local2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees.
36.02	The fulfillment of this Agreement and that of any subsequent joint agreements entered into is guaranteed by the Canadian Unionof Public Employees, the Officers of Local 2046 and the Operators, and it is their duty to see that all such agreements are carried out both in the letter and in the spirit.
ARTICLE 37 - GENERAL
37.01	Negotiation During Term of Agreement
It is agreed during the term of this Agreement, to the extent Federal Legislation permits, and upon written application by the union, the parties will convene meetings for the purpose of renegotiation of wages and fringe benefits.
37.02	Terms of Agreement
This Agreement shall commence effective February 22. 1987. and remain in effect until December31.1988. and thereafter, subject to three months notice, in writing, from either party to the Agreement of its desire to review, amend or terminate it. Such notice may be served any time subsequent to September 30, 1988.
26
Signed on behalf of THE CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION,COAL DIVISION:
Signed on behalf of THE CANADIAN UNION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES LOCAL 2046:
Date: March 3, 1987
27
APPENDIX “A”
COLLIERY SUPERVISOR “A” AND “B” RATES
Mechanical Supervisor “A” rate would be paid when the supervisor is assigned the direct responsibilityof maintenance and installation of production equipment such as wall face equipmentand main belt line. Mechanical Supervisor “B" rate would be paid when the supervisor is assigned as a general mechanical supervisor for the whole mine and may at times be involved in repair of production equipment at various areas of the mine. He could be second supervisor when a supervisor receiving the “A” rate is also working.
Construction Supervisor “A” rate would cover construction supervisors in the collieries, such as Prince, No. 26, and Lingan. Construction Supervisor "B” rate would be employed in 1A and 1 B airways where basic airway maintenance is carried out. Also, if at some point in time, a second construction supervisorwas required at the major operations, the second supervisor would be a Construction Supervisor “B" rate.
Production Supervisor “A” rate would be a full fledged production supervisor capable of running the whole wall face section. Production Supervisor “B” rate would be a new supervisor in the section who would require some assistance from the other supervisor in the section. Upon permanent assignment to a production wall face, the supervisor shall be paid the Supervisor “B” rate. After working 90 starts as such, the supervisor shall be promoted to the Production Supervisor“A” rate. Also, anybody filling in would be a Supervisor“B” rate.
November3, 1981
28
APPENDIX “B’
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION SUMMARY OF CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN ,
o. ... fs QL
Effective Date: April 1, 1974	^
Eligibility
(a) MALES (b) FEMALES
Optionalto full time employees of the Corporation who com-v menced employment prior to (Feburary 22, 1987) ratification of this collective agreement. Mandatory as a condition of employmentfor all new employees to the bargaining unit on or after (February 22, 1987) the date of ratification.
, Normal Retirement
(a) MALES (b) FEMALES Age 65
Employee Contributions
5% of earnings, (in addition to Canada Pension Plan s contributions).
L
Corporation Contributions
‘ Equal to the total of the employees contributions, plus any additional contributions required to keep the Plan actuarily sound (in addition to Canada Pension Plan contributions).
Pension at Retirement
pi) FUTURE SERVICE
'y' In addition to the Canada PensionPlan, 2%_of career. average -j} earnings while a participantof the Plan, adjusted for cost-of-
' living increases* -------- . .	•— ----------"
/ rhV PgBT sERVICE	'	~~------—-------___
I f mplijprll‘‘tli I imn n Local2046 who retire from the Corporation on their normal retirement date and are entitled to pension underthe new Contributory Plan maintained by the Corporation, shall receive underthe Non-Contributory Plana basic pension benefit, if any, based on yeafs-etcoftflTiuous service prior to joining the Contributory Pension Plan.
The basic pension benefit is equal to four dollars per month for each year of continuous service up to a maximum of
29
25 years, adjusted for cost-of-living* increases. However, no employee having less than 10 years of continuous service shall be entitled to any pension benefit under the Non-Contributory Plan.
years payment of earned pension with cost-of-living* in-
i creases (or employee contributionswith interest if greater), (b) AFTER RETIREMENT
Balance of 5 years payment of pension with cost-of-living increases*.
Total and Permanent Disability Waiver
A participant who becomes disabled may apply to the Pension Board for a waiver of contributions during the period of disability.
Termination of Service
(a) CASH REFUND
If less than 10 years in the Plan, and under age 45, return of employee contributionswith interest.
_ , (b) VESTING
f Full vesting will apply after 10 years of service and attainment \ of age 45.
Any employee who does not elect to join the Contributory Plan will have a pension at retirementunder the Non-contributory Plan. The basic benefit under the Non-contributory Plan is equal to four dollars per month for each year of continuous ~ervice up to a maximum of 25 years.
The pension at retirement and/or the dependant benefit shall besubjectto cost-of-living increasesequivalentin rate to the rate of increases provided from time to time byway of annual adjustments in retirement under the Canada Pension Plan. The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Corporation's pension plans. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the content of the registered plan texts.
Dependants Benefit (a) BEFORE RETIREMENT
Cost-of-Living Increases
30
APPENDIX “C” GROUP INSURANCE
^ O ■' ■
Group Life Insurance ' .; , . Accidental Death and , Y" ; ' Dismemberment	vf)* 1
Retired Life Insurance (Employee) Dependant Life Insurance - Wife -child
Ratification
Date Jan. 1/88
17.500.00	20,000.00
17.500.00	20,000.00
3.000.	00 3,000.00
2.000.	00 2,500.00
1.000.	00 1,250.00
Hospital - Private Room Accommodation Hospital - Out-Patient Charges $25.00 t? .
Ambulance - $40.00 per insurance year i Eye Care - Frames and lenses once every two years to a < maximum of $100.00.
Prescription Drugs:
Effective date of ratification, the maximum per person in any insurance year for analgesics, hypnotics, sedatives and tranquilizers shall be increased to $300.00. If however, due to ex-;te nuating medical circumstances, this amount is insufficient, the carrier will, on application, extend the maximum amount.
Diabetic and Colostomy Supplies:
Effectivethe date of ratification, eligible employees will receive diabetic and colostomy supplies under the terms of the Group Insurance Policy in effect on the date of ratification.
Monthly Income Insurance:
v 60% of insured earnings at date of disability reduced by income from other sources. Maximum monthly payment is $1,500.00.	V.\->
Dental Care:	0 s"'
Employeeswill be provided a Corporation paid_basic Dental Care Plan, This coverage includes spouse and dependant children. The cost of the Dental Plan to the employer will not exceed $13.00 per month per eligible employee. The amount covered by the Corporation Dental Plan, after the normal deductible, will match dentists' fee in the current year.
31
The cost of the Insuranceand Welfare Benefits Plan (excluding Dental Care Plan) will continue on a shared §0°/o ^.40%-employer/employee basis.
The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Group Insurance Plan. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the content of the insurance contract between Great West Life Assurance Company and the Cape Breton Development Corporation.
32
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO.2
Mr. Gerard O’Neill President
Canadian Union of Public Employees Local 2046 337 Welton Street Sydney, Nova Scotia
Dear Sir:	___„
RE: PRODUCTION INCENTIVE PLAN COVERAGE -	'
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto during negotiationson the above-mentioned matter.
An employee occupying on a permanent basis a job classification coming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit (C.U.P.E, 2046), as described inthe Canada Labour Relations Board Certification Order dated February 3, 1978, will, subject to the terms and conditions of the Corporation’s Production Incentive Plan, continue to be eligible for coverage under the said Plan during the term of the collective agreement between the parties dated (February22, 1987).
If you concur with the above, please so indicate in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,
W.T. Lineker
Vice-president, Human Resources Cape Breton Development Corporation
I concur,
Gerard O’Neill President
Canadian Union of Public Employees Local 2046
67/02/16
33
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3
Mr. Gerard O'Neill President
Canadian Union of Public Employees Local 2046 337 Welton Street Sydney, Nova Scotia
Dear Sir:
RE: CONSOLIDATION OF SALARY CLASSIFICATIONS
The Corporation, in conjunction with the Local Union, agrees to undertake a review of the supervisory salary structure for the purpose of standardizingsalary treatmentforjobs of similar responsibility. Agreement reached as a result of the review may be implemented during the term of this agreement by mutual agreement of both parties. It is further agreed that no member of the bargaining unit will suffer a reduction in pay as a consequence of this review.
Yours very truly,
W.T. Lineker
Vice-president, Human Resources Cape Breton Development Corporation
I concur,
Gerard O’Neill President
Canadian Union of Public Employees Local 2046
87/02/16
34
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 4
November, 1985
Mr. John Boyd
President, Local 2046
Canadian Union of Public Employees
337 Welton Street
Sydney, N.S.
B1P 5S6
Dear Mr. Boyd:
RE: ARTICLE 6.02
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the parties signatory hereto during negotiations.
An employee occupying on a permanent basis ajob classification coming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit (C.U.P.E, Local2046), as described in the C.L.R.B, Certification Order dated February3,1978, will exercise the full authority and responsibility required by the act of supervision. Solely for the purpose of clarifying Article 6.02 of the Collective Agreement, and without limiting the generality thereof, the Union and the Corporation agree that the customary duties and responsibilitiesas a Supervisor referred to in said Article 6.02 include:
—	ensuring compliance with legislation and the Corporation's safety policy, standard procedures and practices;
—	directingand controlling the work force includingthe ad-ministrationof correctivedsscipline and the monitoring of absences from work; and
—	meetingthe production requirementsof the Corporation in a cost effective manner.
The Corporation and the Union will meet within one month of the signing of an amended CollectiveAgreement to discuss matters of relevance with regard to this Letter of Understanding.
Yours truly,	I concur,
W.A. Gouthro	John Boyd
Director of Employee	President,	Local 2046
Relations	CUPE
35
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 5
November 3, 1981
Mr. James Crosby National Representative Canadian Union of Public Employees 337 Welton Street Sydney, N.S.
RE: TWO CONSECUTIVE DAYS OFF IN EACH STANDARD WORK WEEK
Dear Mr. Crosby:
This letter will confirm the understandingreached this date, betweenthe parties signatory hereto, to the effect that the Corporation recognizes the desirability of granting employees two (2) consecutive days off in each work week, whenever possible, provided a sufficient number of supervisors are available in order that operational requirements can be efficiently and economically met.
If you agree with the foregoing, please indicate in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,
Carl Turner,
Vice-president, Human Resources I concur
James Crosby
National Representative
Canadian Union of Public Employees
36
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 6
November 3, 1981
Mr. James Crosby National Representative Canadian Union of Public Employees 337 Welton Street Sydney, N.S.
RE: SECURITY GUARDS
Dear Mr. Crosby:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date respecting Article 26.03, as contained in Conciliation Commissioner Spencer’s “Recommendation for Settlement”, to the effect that notwithstanding the Corporation's agreement to delete this provision, it must be abundantly clear that this in no way constitutes a waiver of the Corporation's rights to protect its property and goods at any time within the bounds of the law.
Please indicateyour concurrence in the space providedbelow. Yours very truly,
Carl Turner
Vice-president, Human Resources I concur
James Crosby
National Representative
Canadian Union of Public Employees
37
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 9
Mr. Gerard O'Neill President
Canadian Union of Public Employees Local 2046 337 Welton Street Sydney, Nova Scotia
Dear Sir:
RE: EARLY RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PLAN
This letter confirms the understanding reachedtoday between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above mentioned matter.
The Corporationagrees to provide a one-time program to encourage older employees to accept early retirement, thereby reducingthe need for the displacement of other employees. This plan will be referred to as the Early Retirement Incentive Plan.
Eligibility Requirements: All employees of the Corporation represented by Local 2046 of the Canadian Union of Public Employees, aged 55 or older as of April 1,1987, and who have 20 years or more service. The calculation of years of service for those employees referred to above who were formerly employees at the Broughton Minewill includetheir years of service with that employer for the purposes of flexibility for benefits under the Early Retirement incentive Program.
Procedure: The Corporation will receive applications for the Early Retirement Incentive Plan from interested employees who qualify according to the eligibility requirements set out above from the date of ratification (of this Collective Agreement), until March 14,1987. Applications will not be accepted after March 14, 1987.
Benefit Level and Other Requirements: Employeeswhose applications for the Early Retirement Incentive Plan have been accepted bythe Corporationwill be required to apply forthe C.P.P. and to complete C.P.P. form “Authorization to Communicate Information”. Employeesentitledto receiveC.P.P. benefits shall receive a maximum monthly allowance from the
38
Corporation of $851.72. Employeeswho are not eligible for C.P.P. benefitswill receive a maximum monthly allowance of $1,300.00 from the Corporation. Both these monthly aggYjgjj^Sfrom the Corporation are subject to the following
deduc^’	c
Automatic Assumption payments in excess of Z....
$250.00 per month will be deducted from the monthly allowance on a dollar for dollar basis.
>
The monthly allowance under the Early Retirement Incentive Plan will be indexed and payable until an employee reaches 65 years of age. Once an employee has reached age 65, his normal retirement benefitswill apply.
Group Plan Benefits: (Excludingdental) will continue in accordance with present normal retirement practice.
This Early Retirement Incentive Plan is intended to minimize the impact of the termination of employment of employees. Therefore, provisions under this Plan will provide the maximum benefits for the purpose of any early retirement incentive provisions in any Adjustment Program pursuantto S.60.11 throughtoS.60.15 of the Group Termination Provisionsof Part III of the Canada Labour Code. For the purpose of an early retirement incentive plan, those sections of the Code do not apply.
The parties agree that this letter expires on December 31, 1988.
Yours very truly,
W.T. Lineker
Vice-president, Human Resources Cape Breton Development Corporation
I agree,
Gerard O'Neill President
Canadian Union of Public Employees Local 2046
87/02/16
3<5
November 3, 1981
Mr. James Crosby National Representative Canadian Union of Public Employees 337 Welton Street Sydney, N.S,
Dear Mr. Crosby:
RE: ACCIDENTS AND ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION
This letter will confirm the understanding reached, between the partiessignatory hereto, during negotiationson the above-mentioned matter.
In order to provide a work safe and efficient operation, it is desirableto reducethe incidence of injuries at the work place. To that end, the union will give its utmost cooperationto the Corporation in any program designed to reach this goal through effective accident Investigationand safe work programs to improve our current position.
If you concur with the above, please so Indicate in the space provided below.
Yours very truly,
Carl Turner
Vice-President, Human Resources i concur
James Crosby
National Representative
Canadian Union of Public Employees
40