COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA Local 9346
CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3 ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6
ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12
ARTICLE 13
ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24
GENERAL PURPOSE..........1
SCOPE OF EMPLOYEES.......1
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS........3
NO STRIKES OF LOCKOUTS ..4
SAFETY & HEALTH..........4
SENIORITY................8
LINES OF PROGRESSION/JOB.
POSTING SYSTEM..........17
HOURS OF WORK...........24
OVERTIMEAND SPECIAL PAY ....28
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS......35
VACATION................38
LEAVE OF ABSENCE........42
OFFICERS, COMMITTEES AND
STEWARDS................46
PROCEDURE FOR SETTLING
DISPUTES................48
ARBITRATION.............52
DISCIPLINEAND DISCHARGE ....54
HEALTHAND WELFARE.......56
GENERAL PROVISIONS......59
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM ....66
LEADHANDS...............69
TRAINING ...............70
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE.....77
CONTRACTING OUT ........78
JOINT LABOUR MANAGEMENT ..79 TERM OFAGREEMENT........79
APPENDIX "A1
APPENDIX "B"
APPENDIX "C"
APPENDIX "D”
RATES OF PAY...........81
■ COALPLANTOPS. LINES OF
PROGRESSION............83
COAL PLANTMAINT. LINES OF PROGRESSION............84
MINE MAINTENANCE LINES OF PROGRESSION............85
- MINE OPERATIONS LINES OF
PROGRESSION................86
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING:
#1. JOINT CONTRACTING OUT COMMITTEE ..88
#2. NEW HIRE RESTRICTIONS............90
#3. TRAINING-COAL PLANT..............91
#4. PROBATIONARYPERIOD FOR SPECIAL
ASSIGNMENTS ......................92
#5. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENTAFTER
PROLONGED ABSENCE.................94
#6. ACCUMULATION OF SENIORITY DURING
LAY-OFF...........................95
#7. PROCEDURES GOVERNING LAYOFF-
ARTICLE 5.09 (B) .................96
#8. SUPERVISORYWORK-ARTICLE 1.04.....97
#9. DEFINITION OF QUALIFIED..........99
#10. VACATION ALLOTMENT-ARTICLE 10.03.100
#11. OVERTIME BANKING.................102
#12. STUDENT EMPLOYMENT ..............104
#13. SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS .............107
#14. SPLIT CLASSIFICATION OVERRIDE RATE.110
#15. UNION LEAVE PAY..................111
#16. CONTRACT SETTLEMENT PAYMENT.112
#17. GROUP RRSP PLAN RETIREMENT
BENEFITS....................113
#18. JOINT PENSION/GROUP PLAN
COMMITTEE ..................115
#19. OUTSIDE DEPARTMENTTRANSFERS ..,.116 #20. MODIFIED WORK WEEK..........118
2001	Shift Schedule
2002	Shift Schedule
2003	Shift Schedule
Notes.............
.121, 122 ,123, 124 ,125, 126 ......127
GENERAL PURPOSE
The Parties are agreed that the general purpose of this Agreement is to promote harmonious industrial relations in the mutual interest of the Company and its employees; to provide for the operation of the Mine under methods which will ensure the safety, health and welfare of the employees; the highest level of economy and efficiency cf operations, and quantity and quality of output, orderliness of mine and plant; to maintain an uninterrupted operation at the highest level of performance; to provide orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and the Union, to secure prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to maintain mutually satisfactory hours, wages and working conditions for the employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 1
SCOPE OF EMPLOYEES
1.01	(a) Term "employees" as used in this
Agreement means production and maintenance employees working in the Elk Valley at the Elkview Coal Corporation mining site on Highway 3 near Sparwood, B.C. except, office and technical employees, foremen, employees above foremen, L.P.A.'s and those excluded by the B.C. Labour Code.
(b) Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
1.02	The Company recognizesthe Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees as defined in Article 1.01.
1.03	Employees and/or Union representatives shall not engage in any Union activity during working hours, except as expressly provided for in this Agreement, or as otherwise mutually agreed upon.
1.04	The Company recognizesthat it is not normally the function of persons of or above the rank of Foreman to perform work which is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit except under emergency conditions, for purposes of testing or training or to assist employees for short periods of time where bargaining unit employees are not readily available and it is necessary to perform those duties to ensure work is being done safely and production is not interfered with.
1
1.05	Designated Individuals - it is expressly understood and agreed that notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the Company shall have the right from time to time to designate to the Union, individuals who agree to be given special experience or training in preparing them or trying out their capabilities for other or broader assignments with the Company or for future service other than to the Company not exceeding at any one time one percent (1%) of the employees; and to promote and demote such individuals and direct their efforts from time to time, provided however, that the employment of any such individuals shall not affect the seniority nor result in the demotion of any employee, and further that any such designation of individuals will last for a period no more than four (4) calendar months. Individuals named under this clause will be placed with the regularly assigned employee who will familiarize this person with his job function.
1.06	Each employee shall as a condition of his hiring or continued employment:
(a)	Authorize the Company in writing to deduct union dues from his pay. The authorization shall be in a form agreed to between the Company and the Union.
(b)	Become a member of the Union and maintain membership in good standing.
1.07	(a) The Company will honour written
assignment of wages for Union dues, and shall remit such dues to the Union monthly together with information as to the persons from whose pay such deductions have been
2
made. All such deductions shall be remitted to the Union no later than the 15th day of the month following the month in which such deductions were made.
(b) The Union shall advise the Company, in writing, of the amount of union dues to be deducted from employees each pay period.
1,08	The Union agrees to indemnify the Company and save it harmless against any claims which may arise in complying with the provisions of Articles 1.06 and 1.07.
1.09	If an employee works less than twenty (20) hours in a pay period, his dues shall not be deducted for that pay period (paid days on vacation and paid holidays will be considered as days worked).
1.10	The Company shall provide the Union with the following information:
(a)	Upon request, a list of bargaining unit members showing names, addresses and telephone numbers.
(b)	Once a month, notification of new hire(s), resignation(s), retirement(s) or death(s).
ARTICLE 2
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01	The Company shall retain, maintain and exercise all managerial rights, authorities, and prerogatives, subject only to the express terms and provisions of the Agreement.
3
ARTICLE 3
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
3.01	The Union agrees that neither the Union nor its officers nor representatives, nor its members, nor the employees, shall in any way authorize, encourage or participate in any strike, work stoppage, walk-out, slow-down or any act of similar nature which would in any way interfere with, limit or impede the operations of the Company during the term of this Agreement.
3.02	The Company agrees that there shall be no lockout of employees during the term of this Agreement. In the event the Company should lockout its employees in violation of this Agreement, the Union shall have the right to seek all remedies that it may be entitled to by law.
ARTICLE 4
SAFETY AND HEALTH
4.01 It is in the interest of all concerned to ensure high standards of Safety and Health at the Company's operations in order to prevent industrial injury and illness.
To this end, it is expected that all persons on Elkview Coal Corporation property shall cooperate to promote safe work conditions, practices, and enforcement of reasonable rules of conduct and safety on the property. In the interest of safety the Company will provide sound safety education and training programs.
4
In order to meet mutual objectives in matters related to safety and health, a Joint Occupational, Health, Safety and Environment Committee will be established as outlined below.
4.02	AjointManagement/Union Occupational Health Safety and Environment Committee shall be composed of an equal or greater number of union representatives chosen by their peers, one of which shall be the Occupational Health and Safety Co-Chairperson. There shall be one (1) person from the Plant, Pit Operations, and Mine Maintenance, and not more than three (3) members appointed by the Company. The function of the Committee shall be to recommend solutions to problems relating to the promotion of safety, health and the environment on the job site, and shall conduct meetings and monthly tours in accordance with the Health, Safety, and Reclamation Code for Mines in B.C.
4.03	The Company shall provide to the Joint
Committee the following information:
(a)	An information sheet on toxic chemicals used in the various processes, including emergency procedures as perH.S.R. Code for Mines in B.C. (1992)WHMIS;
(b)	Information on major new tools and equipment;
(c)	A copy of all first aid reports for employees; and
(d)	A monthly summary of injuries sustained on the job by employees and statistics pertainingto them.
5
4.04	There shall be regularly scheduled safety meetings on company time for all members of every crew once per month. Meetings will not normally be scheduled so as to coincide with shift end.
Meetings will be held where noise from operations does not unduly interfere. Safety meetings will include in their agenda:
(a)	Reading of the previous meeting's minutes for errors or omissions;
(b)	Outstanding safety items from previous meetings and progress update, if any; and
(c)	Report of new safety concerns or suggestions will be recorded and discussed.
Further, it is recognized that the use of safety videos, guest speakers or other outside sources can serve as useful tools for promoting health, safety, and environmental awareness.
4.05	An employee who is injured on the job and is unable to complete his shift will have his regular earnings maintained for the balance of that shift. Those employees' on scheduled overtime shifts will be paid the applicable overtime for actual hours worked, or scheduled hours at straight time rates, whichever is greater.
4.06	The following items of personal protection equipment and apparel shall be supplied by the Company on a loan basis and the employee will be required to sign for them and return them in good and serviceable condition (fair wear and
6
tear excepted). If the employee fails to do so, he
shall be charged with their replacement costs:
Personal Protection Equipment And Apparel
Safety Hat
Cutting Goggles
Safety Glasses
Aprons and Face Shields
Respiratory Protection
Safety Belts and Lines
Hearing Protection
Safety Shields for Cutting and Grinding
Reflector Vests
Balaclava
Hot Gloves
Safety Locks
Welder's Gloves
Flashlights
Goggles
Electrician's High Voltage Gloves Asbestos Gloves Rubber Gloves
Rubber Boots (Steam Cleaner)
Lined Gloves (Steam Cleaner)
Safety Chin Straps Knee Pads Safety Hat Liner Welding Lenses
7
4,07	New employees who require corrective lenses must possess safety lenses and safety frames prior to the commencement of work. The company will pay the cost of an employee's original safety lenses and safety frames with sideshields and thereafter will replace safety lenses and/or safety frames when an employee can substantiate they were damaged while at work. The Company will not be responsible for costs under this Article that may be recoverable from another source such as a Health Plan or Workers' Compensation.
4.08	Employee's time while involved in authorized safety meetings, inspections, investigations or tours, on the mine site will be considered as time worked while in attendance at such meetings and tours.
4.09	The cost of Medical Examinations required in compliance with the Health, Safety, and Reclamation Code shall be paid for by the Company. All employees shall be required to take such examinations outside regular working hours and shall be paid four (4) hours pay at straight time and these hours shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of calculating overtime.
ARTICLE 5 SENIORITY
5.01 It is recognizedthat job opportunity and security shall increase in proportion to length of employment. In cases of vacancy, promotion, demotion, transfer between jobs, training
8
opportunities, decrease in the working force and recall after lay-off, senior qualified employees shall be entitled to preference in accordance with the specific provisions outlined.
5.02	Employees who have not completed three hundred and sixty (360) regularly scheduled hours (exclusive of overtime) worked within a six (6) month period shall be considered probationary employees and shall have no seniority. Upon completion of the probationary period, an employee shall acquire seniority and his name shall be entered on the seniority list according to his most recent hiring date. For the purpose of this clause the probationary period shall commence on the first day of employment. Probationary periods may by ammended for service as a special assignment employee as outlined in Letter of Understanding #4.
5.03	There shall be one (1) type of seniority; namely Company.
(a)	The Company seniority means the length of time of his continuous employment with the Company since his last hiring by the Company.
(b)	Departments for the purpose of definition shall be, but not limited to the following:
i)	Mine Operations
ii)	Mine Maintenance
iii)	Coal Plant
iv)	Warehouse
Employees shall accumulate seniority in one 9
department only, except as provided elsewhere.
(c)	If the transfer of an employee is required by the Company, from one Department to another, for the efficient conduct of operations or because an employee is transferred for considerations of health or safety, the provisions contained within 6.02(b) will not apply.
(d)	On being transferred at the employee's request, (ie. job posting, bump etc.) the provision contained within 6.02 (b) will apply.
5,04	Employees who have acquired seniority shall have that seniority maintained and accumulated during:
(a)	The period of time that an employee is absent and is in receipt of weekly indemnity, long term disability benefits up to one hundred and four (104) weeks.
(b)	Authorized absence under Article 11.
(c)	Absence if injured while working and in receipt of W.C.B. benefits.
(d)	Lockouts.
5.05	Employees who have acquired seniority shall have that seniority maintained but not accumulated during:
Absence due to lay-off not exceeding;
(a)	One (1) year where the employee has less than two (2) years of seniority.
(b)	Two (2) years where the employee has two (2) or more years of seniority. Plus one (1) additional month for each year of seniority, up to an additional six (6) months.
10
(c)	Strikes.
5.06	An employee who has acquired seniority shall
have that seniority completely lost and his
employment as an hourly employee terminated
if he:
(a)	Quits his employment with the Company.
(b)	Is discharged but not reinstated under the grievance procedure.
(c)	Is laid off for a period beyondthat described in Article 5.05(a) and (b).
(d)	Is sent notice of recall by double registered mail to his last address of record with the Company and fails to report within fifteen (15) days of receipt of notice, unless he has contacted the Company and has received an extension to report. A notice of re-call which has been returned as unclaimed or refused will be considered received.
(e)	Accepts a salaried position.
(f)	Is absent due to temporary illness or injury beyond the period provided for in Article 5.04(a).
5.07	(a) The Company shall maintain an up-to-date
"Company" seniority list and a "Company" seniority list by Department showing each employee's order of seniority with his name, payroll number, employment date, and classification.
(b)	The seniority list shall be posted on all department bulletin boards every month and a copy sent to the union.
(c)	The seniority for employees hired on the same day will be determined by earliest birth
11
date in the calendar year.
5.08	An employee refusing recall under Article 5.06(d) for work expected to exceed one (1) month will be deemed to have terminated, and shall lose all recall rights.
5.09	Procedures Governing Lay-offs and Lines of Progression
(a)	Temporary or Emergency Layoff
i)	In the event of a reduction of employees resulting in a lay off of eight (8) calendar days or less, the employee with the greatest company seniority within the department, within the classification required, from the crew who normally do the work, shall be required to work.
ii)	The eight (8) calendar day time limit may be extended by mutual agreement of both parties
(b)	(i) In the event of a reduction of employees resulting in a layoff of at least nine (9) calendar days but less than thirty (30) calendar days, the employee with the greatest company seniority within the departmentwithin the work area affected will be retained provided he is qualified to do the work. The employee being displaced shall be the employee with the least company seniority within the department. For the purpose of this clause, work areas shall be defined as follows:
1)	Mine Operations
2)	Mine Maintenance:
Main Shop/Field
12
Machine shop Predictive Maintenance Shovel/DrHI Crew
3)	Warehouse
4)	Coal Plant:
Operations
Maintenance
(ii)	For the purpose of those tradesman in work area numbertwo (2) above, qualified is defined in Letter of Understanding# 7.
(iii)	For all other classifications in the abovenoted work areas, qualified is described in Letter of Understanding# 9.
(c)	Permanent or Indefinite Layoff
(i) In the event of a reduction of a classification resulting in a lay off of thirty(30) calendar days or more, or where an area of the operation permanently closes that does not result in lay off, the employee with the least Company seniority will be reduced from the classification. An employee displaced from his classification may displace an employee in any other classification within the bargaining unit on the basis of Company seniority, provided he is qualified to do the job, or can reasonably be trained on those jobs described in 5.09 (c) (v) in thirty (30) calendar days. The employee being displaced shall be the employee with the least Company seniority in that classification.
ii)	For the purposes of Article 5.09(c) and 5.11 qualified is deemed to mean:
(a)	classification was previously held and is 13
deemed still qualified to the standard set by the department for the position, or
(b)	the employee is qualified and competent to the standards set by the department for the position, or
(c)	the employee has provided reasonable proof of previous experience in the position applied for and can become fully qualified and competent to the standards set by the department within a familiarizations period of up to one (1) shift cycle. Such proof of experience will not be required for labourer positions.
iii)	Employees displaced from their classification may displace other employees as outlined in (i) above, or elect to be laid-off from the Company.
iv)	For the purpose of defining competence as described in this Agreement the following criteria will apply:
(a)	the employee's work experience at the Operation;
(b)	the employee's skills;
(c)	the employee's ability to perform the work;
(d)	the employee's aptitude for the job;
(e)	the employee's physical fitness.
v)	Employees who require training will be given the opportunity to train for the following entry level positions marked with a ■ (Labourer, Steam Bay and Haulage Truck (Mine Operations).
5,10	The Parties will meet as far in advance as possible to discuss the orderly application of the
14
provisions of Article 5 with respect to lay-offs, closure of a work area(s) and crew reductions.
5.11	Employees laid off will be recalled in the inverse order of seniority, provided they possess the qualifications and are competent to perform the available work. It shall be the responsibility of employees who have been laid off and wish to be available for recall to keep the Employee Relations Department informed of their current mailing address.
5.12	Laid off employees are to have recall rights not to exceed those expressed in Article 5.05 (a) and (b) from the date of last lay-off.
5.13	Crew Reduction
(a)	i) Where there is a crew reduction, resulting in a change of classification which does not involve lay-off, employees so reduced will be entitled to displace junior employees within their department on the basis of company seniority provided they are qualified to perform the work.
ii)	Employees displaced as a result of the exercise of a more senior employee's preference, may also elect to displace a more junior employee within their existing department on the basis of company seniority provided they are qualified to perform the work.
iii)	Employees who are unable to displace other employees will be assigned vacancies in order of their company seniority.
iv)	In all cases the employee being displaced shall be the employee with the
15
least company seniority in that classification.
v)	For the purpose of this clause qualified means that the employee has previously held that position in the classification while an employee of Elkview Coal Corporation within the past five years and must be capable of immediately demonstrating his ability to perform the work in that classification to the satisfaction of the company. The exception to this will be all labourer positions.
(b)	Where there is a crew reduction of tradesmen resulting in a change of classification within his department which does not involve lay-off, the tradesman may displace, on the basis of Company seniority, the least senior employee in the same trade in another department. This clause only affects tradesmen where the same trade is practised in more than one (1) department and that he can meet the criteria outlined in Letter of Understanding#?.
(c)	Where there is a crew reduction of tradesman not resulting in a change of classification within his department which does not result i n lay-off, the tradesman may displace, on the basis of his company seniority within the department the least senior employee in his trade in his current department provided he has been in the department for at least six (6) months and that he can meet the criteria outlined in Letter of Understanding#?.
(d)	For a crew reduction, other than described in 5.13 (c) which does not result in a reduction in classification within the department, reductions will be done on the basis of company seniority amongst the
16
employees in that classification on that crew.
ARTICLE 6
LINES OF PROGRESSION/JOB POSTING SYSTEM
6.01	(a) The following departments shall have Lines
of Progression:
i)	Mine Operations
ii)	Mine Maintenance
iii)	Coal Plant
(b) Other vacancies will be subject to the provisions as outlined in this Agreement.
6.02	Lines cf Progression:
(a)	There will be two (2) types of Job Postings within a Lines of Progression.
i) Entry Level Job Postings	■
ii) Departmental Job Postings	A
(b)	To be eligible to post on Departmental job postings or to advance through the lines of progression, the employee must be in the new department for a minimum of six (6) calendar months.
(c)	The Company will not be required to post positions above jobs marked with a square in the Lines of Progression charts with the exception of those defined by a triangle provided :
1)	there is an eligible qualified employee within that Line of Progression;
2)	failing the above, there is a qualified employees within that line of progression.
17
Where an eligible qualified employee or a qualified employee in that line of progression is awarded the job, the Company will post the name and seniority date of the employee who is awarded the job. If there are no eligible qualified employees or qualified employees within that Line of Progression the Company will post the job in accordance with Article 6.06.
6.03	(a) Permanent vacancies in a Line of Progression above the job defined with a triangle in mine operations and above those jobs defined by a square in all other departments shall be filled by the eligible qualified employee with the greatest company seniority within the department in the job classification immediately below the vacant job. Failing this the job shall be filled by the qualified employee with the greatest company seniority within the department in the job classification immediately below the vacant job.
(b)	Temporary vacancies in excess of one (1) shift shall be filled by the senior qualified employee on that shift in that Line of Progression.
(c)	Temporary vacancies or assignments of one (1) shift or less may be filled by any qualified person.
6.04	(a) Employees, except those in Trainee positions have the right to freeze themselves in the Line of Progression. Employees who exercise the right to freeze will sign a waiver form supplied by the Company and submit it to their foreman.
18
(b) Employees who elect to freeze must remain frozen at least until the next employee in the Line of Progression has completed his training in the position that the frozen employee would normally have been trained on.
6.05	(a) In the event an employee in a Trainee Position who has not completed all the prescribed training hours elects not to advance in a Line of Progression, or is unsuccessful in completing the training, he will be removed from further training.
(b) Employees who bid on positions that result in a change of classification and are unsuccessful in either completing the training or in performing the duties for the new classification will be returned to their former position if it remains vacant. Failing such a vacancy, the employee will be reassigned to a vacant position for which he is qualified in his new department, and failing that, to a vacant position for which he is qualified elsewhere in the Company.
6.06	Job Postings
(a)	Notice of all job vacancies that require posting shall be made known on all appropriate department notice boards and shall be posted for eight (8) calendar days. Copies of job postings will be sent to the union upon request.
(b)	In awarding Job Postings to Entry Level Jobs (defined by a ■), the employee with the greatest Company seniority shall be awarded the job provided he possesses the ability to undertake the training. If there are
19
no successful applicants the Company may recruit.
(c)	i) In awarding Departmental Job Postings, (defined by a (A)the employee with the greatest Company seniority within the Department shall be awarded the job provided he possesses the ability to undertake the training and has been working in the Department for six (6) calendar months.
ii)	Should there be no successful applicants under6.06 (c) (i) the six month provisionwill be waived and the person with the greatest company seniority within the department shall be awarded the job provided he possess the ability to undertake the training.
iii)	Failing successful applicants based on
6.06	(c)(i) and 6.06 (c)(ii) with the exception of trainee positions, the Company will award it to the employee bidding with the greatest Company seniority outside the Department provided he possesses the ability to undertake the training. If there are no successful applicants, the Company may recruit.
(d)	In awarding all other job postings within a Department (except trainees and those jobs defined by a triangle), the Company shall consider the following factors:
i)	Only qualified applicants will be considered;
ii)	The seniority criteria described in 6.06 (c) The determining factor between two (2) qualified applicants shall be seniority. Failing successful applicants within the department, the Company will consider other applicants based on Company
20
seniority, and the qualified applicants with the greatest Company seniority will be awarded the job. Failing successful applicants, the Company may recruit.
(e)	In awarding journeyman trade postings the company will consider the following factors.
i)	Only qualified applicants will be considered;
ii)	The Company seniority of the individual applicant
The determining factor between two (2) qualified applicants shall be their company seniority and the qualified applicant with the greatest Company seniority will be awarded the job. Failing successful applicants, the Company may recruit.
(f)	Tradesman are not eligible to bid on a vacancy within their own trade. Departmental crew transfers are described in Letter of Understand #19.
(g)	If the posted job is in another department, the employee will accumulate time in the new department for the purpose of 6.02 (b) from the date of the award.
(h)	Every attempt shall be made to transfer an employee who is successful on a job posting within two (2) cycles of the posting being awarded, however the transfer will be in effect within four (4) cycles of the date of the award.
In any event he will receive the new rate of pay for the job awarded if it is higher than his current rate no later than two (2) cycles after the posting is awarded.
6.07	(a) Notices of all job vacancies shall be in the following form
21
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION JOB VACANCY NOTICE
DATE POSTED: ______________
POSTING#: ____________
The following vacancy(ies) in the_______
Department for the job(s) of __________
which is paid at the rate of $ ___________
per hour. This vacancy is currently on _
shift, but is subject to change.
Applications will be deposited by the employee in boxes provided in the main dry and coal plant dry.
The closing date for this posting is ___
Applications must be signed by the Foreman and Employee.
Note:	Employees requesting crew transfers in
accordance with Article 6.13 of the Collective Agreement, should do so on the appropriate crew transfer form.
Crew transfer forms are available from your supervisor.
(b)	Employees who indicate a preference to a particular crew will only be awarded positions for the crew indicated.
22
6.06	An employee who applied for a Job Posting and is the successful applicant must accept the
position. Employees may be excused from accepting such positions for medical reasons, provided such reasons are acceptable to the Company.
6.09	An employee is not eligible to bid on a vacancy within his existing department and classification except as specifically provided for.
6.10	An employee may make application in anticipation of up to two (2) job vacancies, (in order of preference), that may occur while he is absent on vacation or on approved leave of absence of two (2) work cycles or less. Such application must be made prior to the commencement of the leave or vacation period and shall be effective for that time period only. Should two (2) job vacancies for which the employee has so applied become vacant, he must accept the first for which he is qualified that becomes vacant.
6.11	A promotion is considered an upward change in classification and a demotion is considered a downward change in classification.
6.12	(a) Employees who hire into one department
will not be eligible to bid on vacancies outside their department for a nine (9) month period, with the exception of employees hired at the entry level who may post on jobs outside their department above entry level after six (6) months.
(b)	An employee accepting a job outside his 23
existing department must remain in the new department for a period of eighteen (18) months before applying for a job posting in any other department.
(c)	Notwithstanding6.12 (a)and(b), employees will be eligible to apply on apprenticeship notices and journeyman trade positions.
6.13	Employees requesting crew transfers within
their department and classification must do so
on the appropriate form. Such requests will not be unreasonably denied. The Company will not be required to pay overtime rates for the exercise of the employees' preference, except if he works additional hours which qualify for overtime.
6.14	Prior to filling any positions that require posting, the Company will first consider any requests received in accordance with Article 6.13. Failing that, the Company will fill the vacancy in accordance with the job posting procedures outlined in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 7 HOURS OF WORK
7.01	This article is intended to define the normal hours of work and shall not be construed as any guarantee of work, or pay, or of hours of work per day, or per week, or days of work per week.
7.02	(a) The term "work week means that period of time commencing 8:00 a.m. on Monday and
24
terminating one hundred and sixty-eight (168) hours thereafter.
(b) The term "work day" means that period of time commencing at the start of shift and terminating	twenty-four	(24) hours
thereafter.
7,03	At its discretion, the Company may from time to time initiate, maintain or discontinue to conduct, all or any part of its operations on a multiple shift and/or multiple continuous shift basis, subject to the pertinent statutes and regulations of the Province of British Columbia.
Prior to introducing a shift schedule outside of those referredto in 7,04 the Company will meet with the Union to discuss the new schedule, the impact it will have on employees and consider alternatives that may arise from these discussions.
7.04	The Company may schedule any operation, employee or group of employees at other times because of emergencies, break-downs, preparationfor start-up of work and efficiency of the operation. The normal hours of work for employees shall be based on one of the following schedules:
(a)	Eight (8) hours per day five (5) days per week.
(b)	Ten (10) hours per day four (4) days per week.
(c)	Twelve (12) hours per day based on a work cycle which is eight (8) consecutive weeks four (4) shifts on, four (4) shifts off, averaging forty-two (42) hours per week.
25
(d)	i) Twelve (12) hours per day based on an alternating cycle of four (4) day shifts one (1) week followed by three (3) night shifts the next week averaging forty-two (42) hours per week.
ii)	Twelve (12) hours per day based on an alternating cycle of three (3) day shifts one (1) week followed by four (4) night shifts the next week averaging forty-two (42) hours per week.
(e)	Normal shift starting times will be as follows: Twelve Hour Shifts:
Day Shift.........................8:00 a.m.
Night Shift.......................8:00 p.m.
Ten Hour Shifts:
Day Shift.............................8:00 a.m.
Eight Hour Shifts:
Day Shift..............................8:00 a.m.
These starting times may be varied up to one (1) hour on either side of these times for experimentation purposes or to meet operational requirements. Starting times may vary beyond one (1) hour providing such times are mutually agreed to by the parties.
7.05	(a) Employees will receive their instructions in sufficient time to commence their shift at the designated starting time and work place and shall cease at the designated stopping time and place.
26
(b)	Departure and return to the dry of Mine Operations employees will be as follows:
i)	Employees will receive their instructions in sufficient time to board the buses which depart the mine dry at 7:45.
ii)	Buses will commence picking up employees for shift end in sufficient time to arrive at the dry at 8:00.
iii)	Employees who arrive at the dry after 8:00 will be paid overtime as provided for in Article 8.03.
iv)	Effective the date of ratification a premium of three dollars ($3.00) shall be paid in recognition of the 15 minutes bus time spent on shift changes.
Effective November 1, 2001 a premium of three dollars and fifty cents ($3.50) shall be paid in recognition of the 15 minutes bus time spent on shift changes.
Effective November 1, 2002 a premium of four dollars ($4.00) shall be paid in recognition of the 15 minutes bus time spent on shift changes.
7.06	Paid Work Breaks
Eight-hour and ten-hour shift employees will have a lunch break of thirty (30) minutes, designated by the Company during the period of the fourth and fifth hours of the shift. They will have coffee breaks, at the work place, of ten (10) minutes each, designated by the Company during the periods of the second and third hours and the sixth and seventh hours of the shift.
7.07	Twelve-hour shift employees will have a lunch 27
break of thirty (30) minutes designated by the Company during the period of the fourth and fifth hours of the shift and the eighth and ninth hours of the shift.
OR
Twelve-hour shift employees will have a lunch break of thirty (30) minutes designated by the Company during the period of the fifth and sixth hours of the shift. They will have coffee breaks, at the workplace, of fifteen (15) minutes each, designated by the Company during the periods of the third and fourth hours and the eighth and ninth hours of the shift.
The selection of which system of breaks is most suitable for each area of the Operation will be at the discretion of the Company.
7.08	With respect to the lunch break provided in Articles 7.06 and 7.07, the employees shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of service but shall not be required to do any work which can reasonably be postponed to the end of their lunch break.
ARTICLE 8
OVERTIME AND SPECIAL PAY
8.01	Overtime will be voluntary provided that operating requirements are met.
8.02	(a) The Company will continue its present
practice of ensuring that opportunities for overtime will be distributed as equitably as is
28
practicable among the employees in the Department and in the classification who normally perform the work in the area for which overtime is required. A record of overtime opportunitieswill be posted in each department.
(b)The parties are not precluded from mutually agreeing to alternative methods of distributing overtime opportunities.
8.03	An employee'sworking time shall be calculated to the one quarter (1/4) hour at which he is directedto stop work, or, if he isdirectedto stop work betweenone quarter(1/4) hour, to the one quarter (1/4) hour next following the time he is directedto stop work.
8.04	(a) An employee working overtime for a period in excess of two (2) hours beyond the end of his normal shift shall be entitled to a hot meal and choice of beverage during the period of such overtime. An additional meal shall be provided for each additional four (4) hours of continuous overtime worked.
(i)	Employees'working overtime for a period in excess of two (2) hours beyond the end of his normal shift shall receive a twenty (20) minute break.
(b) Employees may opt to accept a twelve dollar ($12.00) credit in lieu of an overtime meal once during any one (1) continuous period of overtime.
8.05	(a) An employee called out to work during other than his regular hours will be paid the applicable overtime rate for actual hours
29
worked, or four (4) hours at his regular rate, whichever is greater.
(b)	Maintenance employees called out will not be required to perform work other than that for which they were called out, unless a second emergency situation arises.
(c)	Where an employee who reports for work for his regular or overtime shift, and who has not been notified not to report to work and is sent home because no work of any kind is available he shall be paid an amount equal to two (2) hours pay at his straight time hourly wage rate.
8.06	Consecutive hours worked will be deemed to fall in the same work day for the purpose of calculating overtime premiums for that day.
8.07	(a) Eight Hour Shift
One and one-half (11/2) times the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
i)	time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a workweek;
ii)	the first eight (8) hours worked on scheduled rest days;
iii)	time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a work day.
Two (2) times the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
i)	time worked in excess of ten (10) hours in a work day;
ii)	time worked in excess of forty-eight (48)
30
hours per week, excluding those hours in excess of eight (8) in a scheduled work day:
iii)	time worked in excess of eight (8) hours on a scheduled rest day.
(b) Ten Hour Shift
One and one-half (11/2) times the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
i)	time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week;
ii)	the first eight (8) hours worked on scheduled rest days.
Two (2) times the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
i)	time worked in excess of ten (10) hours in a work day;
ii)	time worked in excess of forty-eight (48) hours per week, excluding those hours worked in excess of ten (10) in a scheduled work day;
iii)	time worked in excess of eight (8) hours on a scheduled rest day.
(c) Twelve Hour Shift (4X41
One and one-half (11/2) times the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
i) the first twelve (12) hours worked on scheduled rest days.
Two (2) times the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
i)	time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours per day;
ii)	all hours worked in excess of twelve (12)
31
hours on scheduled days off.
8.08	(a) Schedule Changes
i) The Company shall give an employee forty-two (42) hours notice of a change in his regular schedule. Where such notice is not given, the employee shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times for regular hours worked on the first shift following the change. This provision shall not apply to a new employee's initial assignment to a regular shift. Such hours worked will not be used for the calculation of overtime.
The provisions of this Article shall not apply to a change requested by an employee for personal reasons. No employee shall be allowed to change shifts under any circumstances without first receiving the approval of his immediate Supervisor.
ii)	During the week of transition where the employee works a combination of shifts (eight hour/twelve hour) the following will apply, and Articles 8.07 (a), (b), and (c) will not apply.
1. Eight (8) hour shifts going to twelve (12) hour shifts:
i)	after forty (40) hours per work week all hours worked will be paid at one and one-half (1 1/2) times;
ii)	after forty-eight (48) hours per work week all hours will be paid at two (2) times;
iii)	all hours worked in excess of twelve (12)
32
hours per day will be paid at two (2) times.
2. Twelve (12) hour shifts going to eight (8) hour shifts or twelve (12) hour shifts going to twelve (12) hour shifts:
i)	one and one-half (11/2) times will be paid for the first twelve (12) hours in the work week that exceed the number of hours the employee would have worked on his old shift schedule;
ii)	two (2) times will be paid for all hours worked in the work week beyond those described in 8.08 (a) (ii) 2. (i);
iii)	all hours worked in excess cf twelve (12) hours per day will be paid at two(2) times.
iv)	If an employee is not required to work a combination of shifts in the week of change, then the effective date of change is always 8:00 a.m. on Monday and Article 8.08 (a) ii) provisions do not apply.
/b) Shift Changes
The Company shall give an employee twenty-two (22) hours notice of a change in his regular shift pattern. Where such notice is not given, the employee shall be paid at the rate cf one and one-half (11/2) times for regular hours worked on the first shift following the change. Such hours worked will not be used for the calculation of overtime.
Overtime will be paid in accordance with Article 8.07 (a),(b), and (c).
8.09	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime.
33
8.10	As the twelve (12) hour shift schedule (4X4) resultsinan average of forty-two (42) hours per week over an eight (8) week cycle, an employee working such a schedule shall be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) times his regular hourly rate for the last two (2) hours cf his scheduled shift in the week.
Any unpaid leave during the week shall result in an equal loss of the overtime payment set out above (ie. one hour's absence shall result in a one hour loss of overtime).
For the purposes of this payment, vacation, floaters, statutory holidays, bereavement, nonrebillable paid union leave, and jury duty are considered as paid leave. All other absences are considered as unpaid leave.
8.11	(a) An employee working at a higher paying job
than his normal classification will receive the higher rate of pay for the actual hours worked in that higher classification unless those hours are in excess of one-half (1/2) cf the scheduled hours of that shift, in which case the employee will receive the higher rate of pay for the entire scheduled shift. This provision will not apply to those employees receiving training in higher paying positions.
(b) An employee temporarily assigned to work in a lower classification will be paid at his regular rate of pay.
8.12	Shift and Weekend Premiums
Employees working other than day shift shall be paid the following premiums per hour, in
34
addition to their regular rate:
Twelve 1121 Hour Shift Schedule
Night Shift- Ninety-five cents (950) per hour
8.13	Employees working on regular scheduled shift on Saturdays and Sundays shall be paid a premium of one dollar and seventy-five cents ($1.75) per hour.
8.14	The premiums referred to in Articles 8.12 and
8.13	will not apply when overtime or other premium pay is being paid for the shift. These premiums will not be paid if the employee does not work on the shift attached to the premium.
9.01	(a) An employee shall receive a Statutory
Holiday allowance equal to eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for each of the following Statutory Holidays, provided he has complied with the provisions of Article 9.04, in accordance with the payment schedule outlined herein:
New Year's Day	Good Friday
Canada Day	Remembrance Day
Normally these days will be observed on the
ARTICLE 9
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Thanksgiving Day Boxing Day Labour Day
B. C. Day Victoria Day Christmas Day
35
calendar day on which they fall commencing at day shift on the day in question, and will conclude twenty-four (24) hours thereafter.
(b)	An employee shall receive eight (8) hours Statutory Holiday allowance, except when an employee actually works on a Statutory Holiday or when an employee who is scheduled to work the Statutory Holiday is required by the Company to take the Statutory Holiday off.In these cases the employee will receive holiday allowance equal to the number of regular hours he was scheduled to work.
(c)	i) Employees will be entitled to one (1) Floating Holiday as of each January 1st and July 1st of each calendar year, providedthey have completed their probation period. Floating Holidays will be scheduled on an individual basis by mutual agreement between the employee and his supervisor. Payment for Floating Holidays will be equal to the number of hours the employee would normally have worked on the day the floater is taken.
ii)	Employees may bank Floating Holidays up to a maximum of four (4);
iii)	An employee will receive payment for any unused Floating Holidays upon the termination of his employment up to a maximum of four (4) as described in 9.01 (c)
ii):
iv)	An employee who is off on Workers' Compensation, Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability shall continue to accumulate up to the maximum of four (4) Floating Holidays.
9.02	Employees who are requested to work on a 36
Statutory Holiday and have complied with the provisions of Article 9.04, may elect to take an alternate day off without pay, in any calendar year. These days must be scheduled by mutual agreement between the employee and his supervisor. All lieu days will be waived at the end of the year following the year earned.
9.03	(a)i) For work performed on a regularly scheduled shift on a Statutory Holiday, an employee shall be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) times his basic rate in addition to any amount payable under Article 9.01 (a) and
9.01	(b). Such hoursworked will not be used for the calculation of overtime. ii) An employee required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall be paid at two (2) times the employee's hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of his normal hours of work.
(b) For work performed on a Statutory Holiday on a scheduled day of rest all hours will be paid at the applicable overtime rates.
9.04	(a) Except if he is on vacation or any authorized leave of absence, an employee shall not receive Statutory Holiday allowance i f
i)	He does not work his last regularly scheduled shift before or his first scheduled shift after the Statutory Holiday;
ii)	He fails to work on a paid Statutory Holiday which he has been scheduled to work;
iii)	The Statutory Holiday falls, while he is on lay-off that is scheduled for more than twenty (20) calendar days;
iv)	He has not completed his probationary
37
period.
(b) In applying Article 9.04 (a) i), an employee shall be deemed to have worked the qualifying shifts if his absence is excused and/or otherwise authorized by the Company. However, payment of such holiday pay in case of excused or authorized absence shall be limited to one (1) holiday per absence.
In cases where the absence commences after the Remembrance Day Holiday and encompasses any or all of Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Years Day, the employee will be paid for up to three (3) Statutory Holidays.
9.05	An employee shall be entitled to an additional day off without pay for each Statutory Holiday that falls within an employee's scheduled vacation period. The additional day must be taken consecutively with the vacation period or be lost.
ARTICLE 10 VACATION
10.01	(a) Employee's with seniority will be entitled to vacation with pay in accordance with the following schedule.
Accumulated Seniority After one (1) completed year After two (2) completed years
Entitlement Payment 96 Hours 4.8% 96 Hours 4.8%
38
After three (3) completed years 120 Hours After four (4) completed years	120 Hours
After five (5) completed years	144 Hours
After six (6) completed years	156 Hours
After seven (7) completed years 156 Hours After eight (8) completed years	156 Hours
After nine (9) completed years	168 Hours
After ten (10) completed years	168 Hours
After eleven (11) completed years 168 Hours After twelve (12) completed years 180 Hours
6.0%
6.0%
7.2%
7.8%
7.8%
7.8%
8.4%
8.4%
8.4%
9.0%
For the purpose of this Article, one (1) completed year means three hundred and sixty-five (365) calendar days of employment where an employee's seniority has been maintained and accumulated.
(b) For those employees whose seniority was maintained but not accumulated in accordance with Article 5.05, vacation entitlement will only be equal to the total number of days worked for which seniority accumulated.
10.02	Employees shall be required to submit their preference for vacation time to their immediate Foreman before February 15th in each year. Following this the Company will post approved vacation schedules, by department, no later than April 15th.
10.03	Preference for vacation entitlement will be determined on the basis of company seniority within the department of those employees whose applications for vacation
39
are received by February 15th in each year. Vacation requests received after February 15th will be allocated, based on the dates they are received, on a first received, first scheduled basis.
The Company will grant vacations at times most preferable to employees, provided that such requests do not unreasonably interfere with the requirements of operations.
Except for instances of a planned vacation shutdown or where an employee exercises preference, through job posting etc., vacation schedules, once approved, may only be changed by mutual consent.
10.04	Vacation time may be carried over from one vacation year to the next if prior written approval is obtained from the employee's Superintendent. Should vacation time not be taken by the end of the employee's vacation year, nor agreement reached on carry-over, vacation time will be lost and such employee will be paid out all vacation monies owed in the following pay period.
10.05	The Company will give three (3) months notice of a planned vacation shutdown. In the event an employee has scheduled and received approval for his vacation within the three (3) month period referred to above, the employee will have the option of taking his vacation as previously approved.
10.06	Through no fault of the employee, and upon
40
receipt of proof of loss, the Company shall reimburse an employee for reservation deposits lost as a result of his approved vacation being rescheduled by the Company because of a planned vacation shutdown, provided the employee notifies the Company of his loss within two (2) weeks of the date he was rescheduled.
10.07	(a) Vacation time off may be broken into any block of shifts, provided the scheduling requirements outlined in 10.01 (b), 10.02, and 10.03 are followed.
(b)	Employees may take up to one (1) cycle of vacation in blocks of one (1) shift at a time.
10.08	Vacation pay will be paid to an employee as a daily rate for each day of vacation taken.
Vacation pay for a daily rate will be calculated as gross vacation pay divided by hours of vacation, times the employee's normal hours of work in a work day.
10.09	The Company may allow employees to take an unpaid Leave of Absence as the last portion of his annual vacation for the purpose of rounding out his work period provided all vacation time and floaters have been exhausted. The work period shall be defined as an employee's complete period of days starting with his first scheduled work day and concluding at the end of the first occurring rest day.
41
I
10.10	Vacation pay will be paid on the pay day for the pay period in which vacation is taken. ARTICLE 11 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
11.01	(a) i) An employee may be granted a leave of absence for sufficient reason. Such requests will not be unreasonably denied. Subject to such leave being granted, the employee(s) must use any banked time, floating holidays, and days-in-lieu first. ii) A leave of absence form must be in writing and authorized by a management representative. All requests for leave of absence and floaters will be answered by the Company, in writing, within ten (10) calendar days.
11.02	An employee who fails to return to work from an authorized absence may be disciplined up to and including discharge unless his reason for failure to return is acceptable to the Company.
11.03	(a) A bereavement leave with pay of four (4) consecutive regularly scheduled shifts will be granted to an employee upon a death in his immediate family, provided the leave is taken within seven (7) days of the funeral. Prior to taking such leave, the employee must advise his immediate supervisor. Immediate family means those named as related to the employee and include employee's: spouse, child or stepchild, parent or step-parent, brother, sister, parent-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
42
(b)	Statutory Holidays are included as a shift for the purpose of this clause.
(c)	An employee eligible for a bereavement leave which occurs during his vacation shall be entitled to have that portion of his vacation rescheduled.
11.04	An employe? who is called for jury duty or is subpoenaed as a witness (but not in his own defence), will be paid an allowance equal to the difference between the payment, excluding travel allowance, he receives for each day of such service and his straight time pay for work which he would have been scheduled and which he would otherwise have performed on those days.
11.05	Maternity Leave
(a)	A female employee shall apply in writing in accordance with 11.05(c) and shall be granted a maternity Leave of Absence to a maximum of twenty-four (24) consecutive weeks (or less as may be requested by the employee) or in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of B.C., whichever is greater.
(b)	An additional Leave of Absence, without pay, at the request of the employee because of related medical reasons which are substantiated to the satisfaction of the Company, shall be granted up to a total of six (6) weeks.
(c)	The employee shall give the Company thirty (30) calendar day's notice in writing of the day upon which she intends to commence her Leave of Absence and shall furnish the
43
Company with the certificate of a legally qualified medical practitioner stating she is pregnant, and the estimated date of delivery.
(d)	An employee who intends to resume reemployment after maternity leave shall endeavour to give as much notice as possible, but in no case less than two (2) week's notice to her crew foreman. She must furnish the Company with the certificate of a legally qualified medical practitioner staling she is able to resume full time work. On her return to work the Company shall reinstate the employee to her previous position, or should her former position be redundant, provide her with alternate work at no less than her job group at the time her leave of absence began.
(e)	The period of such leave shall be considered as Company service for seniority and vacation entitlement (but not vacation pay) only. The Company will continue to provide medical, extended health, dental and optical plan and group insurance benefits during the period of leave and the Company shall continue to make payment to the plan in the same manner as if the employee were not absent.
11.06	(a)i) Upon written request and on reasonable notice from the Union, the Company will grant leaves of absence with pay to employees selected to do work for the Union, subject to the requirements of the operation.
Normally not more than three (3) employees will be granted leave at any one (1) time.
44
However, in situations of special training, such as shop steward or safety representative schools or seminars, leave without pay will be granted for up to an additional three (3) employees.
Not more than one (1) employee from any one (1) shift in any one (1) department may be on leave at any one (1) time.
The Union agrees to give the Company one (1) weeks notice in writing and such leaves are not to exceed two (2) weeks nor interfere with operations.
ii) Employees granted such leave will have their wages maintained by the Company. The Company will submit this time to the Union for reimbursement at an amount equivalent to the Company's cost, once per month.
(b) The union will give as much notice as possible, but in no event less than two (2) weeks written notice. In such cases the Company will grant not more than one (1) employee a leave of absence for ninety-six (96) calendar days to work in an official capacity for the International Union. This leave may be extended for an additional ninety-six (96) calendar days for local representatives and is limited to three (3) consecutive ninety-six (96) calendar day extensions for International Representatives. During absence under this clause the employee's seniority continues to accumulate. Upon expiry of the leave he will return to work at the job which he left and if unable to do so will exercise his rights as per
45
the terms of this Agreement. All benefits terminate while the employee is on leave as an International Representative.
(c)	Upon giving two weeks written notice the company will grant not more than one (1) employee a leave of absence for ninety-six (96) calendar days to work in an official capacity for the local union. This leave may be extended for an additional ninety-six (96) calendar days and is limited to three (3) consecutive ninety-six (96) calendar day extensions. During absence under this clause the employee'sseniority will continue to accumulate. Upon expiry of the leave he will return to work at the job which he left and if unable to do so will exercise his rights as per the terms of the Agreement. Upon mutual agreement the time frames under this clause may be extended.
(d)	In the application of (b) and (c) above, it is agreed that the Company is entitled to replace the employees on leave with special assignment employees. Such replacements shall be for the period of leave only and in addition to the limit allowed for under Letter of Understanding#!3.
ARTICLE 12
OFFICERS, COMMITTEES AND STEWARDS
12.01	The Union may appoint up to one (1) steward and one (1) safety representative for each foreman. Additionally, the Union may appoint an altemate(s) for each of the above to act in the absence of the regular steward or safety representative.
46
12.02	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of all Officers, Committee persons, Stewards, Safety Representatives, and members of the Grievance Committee and of any changes in the same. The Company shall • postthe names and titles of foremen.
12.03	The Union Officers, Grievance Committee persons, Stewardsand Safety Representatives shall notify their foreman and they shall arrange a mutually satisfactory time to leave their work to attend to their duties on the mine site as outlined in this Agreement. Such leave shall not be unreasonably withheld and will be considered as time worked.
The functions of Stewards and Grievance Committee persons are to investigate and attempt to settle grievances. If in the course of investigating a grievance, a Steward or Committee persons enters a department or section of the operation other than that of their authorised work place, or if it involves the investigationof the condition of equipment, they must notify the responsible member of supervision and they shall arrange a mutually satisfactory time for such investigation. A foreman shall accompany the Steward or Committee person to the place where the investigation is to be carried out. It is understood that the Steward or Committee person upon reaching the place where the investigation is to occur, shall have the opportunity of consulting privately with the employee(s) concerned.
12.04	The Company shall provide designated 47
departmental bulletin boards for the exclusive use of the Union, where officers of the Union shall post notices.
12.05	Supervisors will make an earnest effort during the first shift to introduce new employees to their Shop Steward and Union Safety Representative. A new crew member will be introduced to his Shop Steward and Safety Representative.
12.06	Recognizing the obligations for the respective parties under the Human Rights Act of British Columbia the parties agree to work together to ensure that there shall be no discrimination towards any employee of the Company with respect to their employment because of sex, race, colour, place of origin, marital status, union membership or non-membership.
ARTICLE 13
PROCEDURE FOR SETTLING DISPUTES
13.01	(a) The parties agree that it is desirable that any complaints or grievances should be resolved as quickly as possible. Employees are therefore urged to try to settle their complaints with their Foreman as soon as they occur.
(b) The Company agrees to meet any of its employees, or their representatives, for the purpose of discussing grievances or complaints with the object of reaching a satisfactory solution. In the event of any meeting between any employee(s) and Company representativesthat occurs during
48
working hours, such employee's time shall be considered as time worked. In the event of any such meeting between any employee(s) and Company representatives that occurs outside regular working hours, such employee(s) shall be paid their regular straight time hourly rate for the period of the meeting. All time spent during these meetings shall be considered as time worked. Such meetings shall be held at a mutually agreeable time.
(c) Prior to the submission of a grievance, it is normally expected that the steward will meet with his foreman and attempt to resolve the matter.
13.02	Should a dispute arise between the Company and any employee regarding the application, interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the dispute in the following manner:
Step One
Within ten (10) days after the alleged grievance having arisen, or within ten (10) days from the time the employee should reasonably have known of the occurrence of the event, the employee and his Steward may present the grievance in writing to his Foreman. Failing settlement to the employee's satisfaction within seven (7) days, the employee may process the grievance to Step 2.
Step Two
Within seven (7) days from the time 49
settlement should have been made in Step one, the employee, accompanied by his Steward, or a member of the Grievance Committee, may present the grievance in writing to his General Foreman. Failing a satisfactory settlement or reply within seven (7) days, the employee may process the grievance to Step 3.
Step Three
Within seven (7) days from the time settlement could have been made within the time limits of the previous step, the employee, accompanied by his Steward, Chief Steward, Grievance Chairman, and/or Union President or designates thereof, and if requested a representative of the International Union may take the matter up with the Department Superintendent or his designate. Prior to submission to the Department Superintendent there shall be a written statement outlining the nature of the grievance, the remedy sought and the Article or Articles of the Agreement which are alleged to have been violated. Failing satisfactory settlement or reply within seven (7) days the matter may be referred to arbitration within thirty (30) calendar days.
13.03	Where Step 3 has been exhausted and the matter has been referred to arbitration, the Local Union President or his designate and the Company representative may without prejudice attempt to resolve the matter.
13.04	In determining the time within which any 50
step is to be taken under foregoing provisions of this Article, Saturdays, Sundays and the recognized holidays shall be excluded. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
If a grievance is not advanced through the Steps of the grievance procedure within the specified time limits, the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. The abandonment of a grievance under this Article shall not prejudice future cases of a similar nature.
13.05	Answers shall be given in writing to the grievor on a first, second and third stage grievance and a copy shall be sent to the Union.
13.06	If it is not practical to follow the steps in the Grievance Procedure because some department may have no Company or Union representative or the Company or Union representative is not available, then by mutual consent the next step may be proceededto.
13.07	The grievance procedure shall be carried out on the Company's property or at such other place or time as the Union and the Company shall mutually agree upon. The Company and Union agree to schedule meetings in advance for grievances submitted at Step 3.
51
13.08
13.09
13.10
14.01
If it is necessary for a Steward or other employee(s) to take time off during working hours in connection with a grievance, he must notify his foreman and they must arrange a mutually satisfactory time. Time off shall not be unreasonably withheld.
If an alleged violation of this Agreement affects more than one (1) employee or affects the interests of the Union as a party to the Agreement, the Union may sign and file the grievance on behalf of the employee(s) specifying the alleged violation of the Agreement and if identifiable, specifying name and department. Such grievance shall be presented at Step 2.
The provisions of Section 96 (1) of the Industrial Relations Act are specifically excluded from this Agreement.
ARTICLE 14 ARBITRATION
Either party must within thirty (30) calendar days upon the completion of Step 3 of the grievance procedure outlined in Article 13, notify the other party in writing of its desire to submit to arbitration an unsettled grievance relating to the application, operation, interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement including any question as to whether the matter is arbitrable.
52
14.02	Should the parties mutually agree to submit the matter to a single arbitrator, then within seven (7) days following such notice, either party will notify an arbitrator selected from the following list:
Vince Ready	Bruce Greyell
Stephen Kelleher	Dalton Larson
Rod Germaine	KenAlbertini
or such other person as the parties mutually agree.
If none of the arbitrators listed above are available, an appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour cf the Province of B.C. upon request of either patty.
14.03	The Arbitrator shall hear and determine the difference or allegation and shall within a maximum of thirty (30) days following arbitration render a decision.
14.04	The parties shall jointly bear the costs of the arbitrator. Each of the parties shall bear the expenses of the witnesses called by it. No costs cf arbitration shall be awarded against either party.
14.05	Arbitration procedure shall be expedited by the parties.
14.06	At arbitration, the parties may have the
53
assistance of the employee(s) concerned and any necessary witnesses. All reasonable arrangements shall be made to permit the conferring parties access to the property to view the operations in question and to confer with the necessary witnesses.
14.07	An Arbitrator shall not be authorized to make
any decision inconsistentwith the provisions of this Agreement, or alter, modify or amend any part of the provisions.
ARTICLE 15
DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
15.01	(a) If it is alleged that an employee has been discharged without just cause the grievance shall start at Step 3 and if it is alleged that an employee has been suspended without just cause the grievance shall start at Step 2 of the grievance procedure, within five (5) working days of the discipline or discharge being affected. The discharged or suspended employee shall be given the opportunity of seeing a Steward and/or Union President before he is required to leave the premises, providing one is available on site.
(b)	If it is agreed or decided at any stage of the grievance procedure, except arbitration, that an employee has been suspended or dischargedwithout just cause, the Company shall reinstate him in his job without loss of seniority. A reinstated employee is to be paid his wages at his hourly rate for the time loss limited to a maximum of the employee(s)
54
regular number of hours per week. The provision of this Article may be waived if both parties mutually agree to other methods of resolving the grievance.
(c)	Where an Arbitrator has been selected to determine a question respecting an alleged unjust discharge or suspension, he shall have power and jurisdiction to:
i)	uphold the discharge or suspension, or
ii)	vary the penalty, or
iii)	substitute a different penalty, or
iv)	direct reinstatement,
and in cases ii), iii), and iv) the Arbitrator may in addition order the Company to pay the employee full or partial compensation in accordance with his hourly rate. It is understood, however, that if an employee is reinstated, he shall retain his full seniority, unless otherwise directed by the Arbitrator.
15.02	(a) Only Discipline Letters, Discharge/ Suspensions, shall be considered as a form of discipline and shall be subject to the provisions of the Grievance Procedure. A copy of each letter shall be sent to the Union, within thirty (30) days of the imposition of such discipline.
(b) A Shop Steward in the department and on shift, will be present during Discipline and Counselling meetings provided one is available in the department. Employees that choose not to be representedmust notify the Shop Steward of their intentions prior to the meeting.
55
15.03	In recognition by the parties that the purpose of a probationary period is for the Company to evaluate new employees, it is agreed that probationary employees are subject to dismissal for a lesser cause. For the purpose of this clause the employment of a probationaryemployee may be discontinued where the Company in its discretion, determines he is unsuitable or unsatisfactory. A probationary employee shall have rights to the grievance procedure except in respect to seniority.
15.04	An employee's personnel file shall be available and open to the employee for his inspection along with his foreman, at a time mutually agreed upon between the employee and his foreman.
ARTICLE 16
HEALTH AND WELFARE
16.01 The Company agrees to pay the premiums to the insurance companies for providing the benefits set out below for any employee who has elected or in the future may elect to be covered by the Plans; provided that such employee meets the eligibility requirements for enrollment. Coverage provided is subject to the terms of the respective insurance policies. All the benefits provided in this Agreement are payable by the insurer and not by the Company.
(a)	Equivalent to the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia*
Normally, effective on the first day of the 56
month following the date of employment.
(b)	Prescriptions/Medi-Care Supplement*
Twenty five dollar ($25.00) annual deductible per person or family and the difference between the B.C, pharmacare coverage or equivalent and the cost of prescribed drugs to a maximum lifetime health care benefit level of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per person. Effective on date of employment.
(c)	Vision Care*
The maximum amount payable will be one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00)
i)	for persons under age 18 during any 12 month period;
ii)	for persons age 18 and over during any 24 month period.
Effective November 1,2002 this amount will be increased to one hundred and seventy-five ($175.00)
(d)	Dental Plan*
Plan A - Basic Dentistry -100% coverage Plan B- Crowns, Bridges - 80% coverage Plan C - Orthodontics - 50% coverage
The maximum coverage for Plan A & B combined is two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) per year per person after one (1) year. In the first year of employment maximum is five hundred dollars ($500.00) per person.
The maximum coverage for Plan C is two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) per lifetime per person. Effective the first day of the third month following the date of employment.
57
(e)	Weekly Indemnity
Weekly benefit of five and seventy five dollars ($575.00) and effective November 1, 2002, six hundred dollars ($600.00), or at no time less than Unemployment Insurance Benefits.
Benefits are provided from the 1st day of accident and the 4th day of sickness for fifty two (52) weeks (1-4-52 Plan).
Effective on date of employment.
(f)	Long Term Disability Benefit
Available to employees who suffer nonoccupational injuries. Payments commence upon the expiration of Weekly Indemnity payments and continue until recovery, age sixty five (65) or death, whichever comes first.
Benefits shall be the difference between the payment of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per month and the total of all payments made by the Government (calculated monthly) to such disabled employees.
(g)	Life Insurance and Accidental Death and
Dismemberment Life Insurance:
Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) Accidental Death and Dismemberment:
Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
Eligible on date of hire.
Effective on date of employment. *
* Includes qualified dependants
58
16.02	(a) An employee with one (1) full year of seniority who is laid off by the Company will be provided with Medical Services Plan (as providedfor in 16.01 (a)) and Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment (as providedfor in 16.01 (g)), for a period of thirty (30) daysfrom the effective date of his layoff.
(b) Employees on W.C.B. will have Health and Welfare benefits continued as outlined in Article 16, until such time they are re-trained by W.C.B. and/or have found alternative employment.
ARTICLE 17 GENERAL PROVISIONS
17.01	(a) An employee who is laid off for a period of
more than two (2) weeks or is terminated by the Company will be paid all wages forthwith.
(b)	An employee who gives seven (7) days notice of termination shall be paid all wages no later than five (5) business days from his last day worked.
(c)	An employee who gives less than seven (7) days notice of voluntary termination shall be paid all wages no later than seven (7) days from his last day worked.
(d)	Where it is determined that an employee is not in receipt of his full wages for a pay period he will, upon request, be reimbursed as soon as possible.
17.02	The normal procedure for payment of wages
59
will be by direct deposit every second Tuesday to the banking institution of an employees choice.
17.03 (a) The Company will provide a tool allowance each year to tradesmen provided the tradesman continues to maintain the required tools for his trade from the tool list provided by the Company as follows:
Jan. 1st
Machinist
Millwright
H.D. Mechanic
Automotive Mechanic
Electrician
Pipe Fitter
Gas Fitter
Instrumentation
Plant Lubeman
Lineman
Carpenter
Welder
Fuel/Lube Truck Operator Belt Serviceman Tireman
Crane Operators Steam Truck Operator Maintenance Support Op. Steam Bay Attendant
$250.00 $250.00 $250.00 $250.00 $200.00 $200.00 $200.00 $200.00 $150.00 $150.00 $100.00 $100.00 $ 75.00 $ 75.00 $ 75.00 $ 62.50 $ 62.50 $ 62.50 $ 50.00
July 1st $250.00 $250.00 $250.00 $250.00 $200.00 $200.00 $200.00 $200.00 $150.00 $150.00 $100.00 $100.00 $ 75.00 $ 75.00 $ 75.00 $ 62.50 $ 62.50 $ 62.50 $ 50.00
60
This allowance will be paid on the first pay period following each of these dates, for each employee on payroll that pay period.
An employee who has been continuously absent during the six (6) months preceding these dates will not be eligible for this allowance.
Apprentices and Uncertified Trades shall be entitled to the tool allowance paid to the ■ journeymen in their trade classification.
(b) Tool boxes damaged beyond repair through legitimate accidents proven to be no fault of the owner will be replaced by the Company to a comparable standard at no cost to the employee.
17.04	Employees who attend voluntary training courses on their scheduled days of rest will not be eligible for overtime rates for the time spent training.
17.05	Safety boots and gloves will not be provided, however, employees will receive an allowance equal to:
One hundred and fifty dollars ($150) each calendar year
All Employees not listed below
Two hundred dollars f$2001 each calendar year
Road Crew
Excavator and Drill Operators Mine Maintenance Labourers
61
Two hundred and fifty C$2501 each calendar year
Blasting Crew Pit Utilityman Coal Plant Millwright
All Mine Maintenance employees except Labourers
All Coal Plant Employees except Equipment Operators.
This allowance will be paid in the first pay period in July to all employees on payroll during that pay period.
An employee who has been continuously absent during the six (6) months preceding these dates will not be eligible for this allowance.
17.06	Employee Registered Retirement Savinas Plan
The Company will provide, in accordance with Company policy, an Employee RRSP Contribution Plan as follows:
(a)	Eligibility
All permanent employees will be eligible for a contribution under the plan beginning the first day of the third month following the date of employment. Summer Students and Temporary Employees will not be eligible to receive an RRSP contribution under this plan.
(b)	RRSP Account
Contributions made under this plan will only 62
be made into an employee's RRSP account. Such payments will be made on an annual basis, except as provided in (d), for the precedingyear by the end of February. It is the responsibility of all eligible employees to supply the Company with your RRSP account information.
(c)	Contribution
The Company will contribute in accordance with the plan the following amount based on the employees eligible earnings paid in the preceding year.
Up to 8 years of continuous service 4% or seventy-five ($.75) per hourfor each eligible hour.
After 8 years of continuous service 5%
Eligible hours are all hours worked but include vacation hours taken in accordance with Article 10.01 and hours paid under8.05 (a), and 4.05.
Eligible earnings are all earnings for hours worked but include vacation pay in accordance with Article 10.01, and pay under 8.05 (a) and 4,05,
An employee who is off work due to being on LTD will receive a maximum contribution of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) to their RRSP account.
Except as noted above all hours paid or unpaid will not be included for the purpose of determining RRSP benefits.
(d)	Exceptions to 17.06 fbt
In the event of an eligible employees resignation, retirement or death the accrued
63
entitlement will be paid into their RRSP account within thirty (30) days.
17.07	Group RRSP Program lal Eligibility
All permanent employees who are not currently enrolled underthe ERRSP defined in Article 17.06 will be eligible for contribution under the plan, providing they have completed their probationary period. All employees hired after the date of ratification will be ineligible for the plan defined in Article 17.06 and must as a condition of employment enroll in the Group RRSP Program defined herein. Additionally, all current permanent employees who opt to enroll as defined in 17.07 will no longer be eligible under 17.06. Summer students and temporary employees will not be eligible to enroll.
(b)	RRSP Account
Contributions under this plan will only be made into an employee'sRRSP account at either cf the following financial institutions:
1)	Canada Life
2)	Investors Group
3)	Toronto Dominion Bank
Such payments will be made on a bi-weekly basis.
(c)	Contributions
The Company and the employees' will contribute in accordance with the following table:
	Company	Employee
	Contribution	Contribution
upto eight years of Continuous service	4%	4%
After eight years of	5%	4%
continuous service
Note:	The additional contributions in excess of 4%
are voluntary and are not subject to lock-in provisions. Any contributions that are made by the company must be locked in. The employee contributions up to 4% must be locked in.
Eligible earnings are all earnings for hours worked and include vacation hours taken in accordance with Article 10.01 and hours paid under 8.05 (a) and 4.05.
An employee who is off work due to being on LTD will receives maximum contribution of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) to their RRSP account.
Except as noted above all hours paid or unpaid will not be included for the purpose of determining RRSP Medical Services Benefits.
The Company has agreed to submit contributions to the financial institution of choice for those employees who elect to be covered by the plan. The actual terms and conditions of the plan are subject to the terms of the respective financial institution and the Joint Committee guidelines.
In the event of an eligible employees resignation, retirement or death the accrued
65
entitlement will be paid into their RRSP account within thirty (30) days.
(e)	Retirement Benefits
Retiring employees who have been an active member of the plan for twelve (12) continuous years and have reached the age of sixty (60) will be eligible to have their medical service plan paid by the company for a period of five (5) years subject to Letter of Understanding #17.
(f)	Back Time
All current permanent employees who join the plan prior to March 31, 2001 will have their time in the plan back dated to their last day of hire. This will be considered for the purpose of retirement benefits.
(g)	Additional Information
Employees who join the plan will be given a booklet outlining the details of the plan. For those employees who join Investors Group the company will track any withdrawals made from the employee's portion of contributions to that plan after the age of fifty-five (55).
17.08	Election Day
All employees scheduled to work overtime during day shift on Election Days will only be scheduled to work eight (8) hours such days.
ARTICLE 18
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
18.01	The Company will sponsor an 66
apprenticeship training program in accordance with the laws of British Columbia.
18.02	(a) While an apprentice is at school attending the courses prescribed by the Director of Apprenticeship the Company will reschedule the apprentice to day shift (5 x 2) and maintain his earnings at his regular hourly rate for forty (40) hours in each week, less any subsidy paid by the Government with the exception of travel and living out allowance. The Company's obligation is limited to one (1) repeat at any stage of the employee's apprenticeship. The Company will discontinue the sponsoring of the apprenticeship where the apprentice has failed the requiredschooling more than once during the term of the apprenticeship.
(b) Upon removalfrom an apprenticeshipdue to failure the employee will be ineligible from posting on future apprenticeship vacancies in that trade.
18.03	(a) The basic hourly rates for apprentices shall be in accordance with Appendix A - \Nage Schedule.
(b) Rate increases are contingent upon successful completion of the previous practical requirements, and Apprenticeship examinations. The yearly intervals shall be calculated using the date of entry into the program as the anniversary date.
18.04	Employees interested in being considered for apprenticeships must contact the
67
Employee Relations Department and arrange to write the pre-apprenticeship examination. The passing grade for such apprenticeshiptesting has been established as being70%. Where a candidate hasfailed to pass the examination, he may be entitled to one (1) re-write.
18.05	Vacancies for apprenticeships will not be posted. Those wishing consideration, may apply to the Employee Relations Department at any time.
Candidates for apprenticeships will be evaluated and selected in consideration of the following criteria:
i)	Company seniority;
ii)	Previous related experience or training in the applicable trade;
iii)	Previous related apprenticeship training in the applicable trade;
iv)	Education qualifications;
v)	Successful completion of the pre-apprenticeshipexamination.
Where candidates are for all intents and purposes equal, Company seniority will be the deciding factor.
18.06	Upon successful completion of each year's Technical Training assignment and submission of receipts, the Company agrees to pay the apprentice a textbook allowance to a maximum of one hundred and fifty dollars ( $150.00).
18.07	Living out allowance will be provided to 68
assist with the cost of maintaining a second residence while at school. It will only be paid if the apprentice is maintaining a permanent residence (paying rent, mortgage, etc.). The allowance will be paid at a rate of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per training day to a maximum of one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00) per week; it will be paid on Statutory Holidays if the apprentice is still incurring expenses related in maintaining both residences on the date of the holiday.
Apprentices will also receive a travel allowance of fifteen cents ($ 0.15) per kilometrefor travel betweenthe apprentice's permanent residence and his second residence while at school, for travel at the beginning and end of the course.
ARTICLE 19 LEADHANDS
19.01	Leadhands will assign work as directed by a salaried employee and co-ordinate this work among the crew members.
This is a job in which the employee under the direction of a salaried staff member has the combined responsibility of directing the work of a group of employees on other hourly rated production and maintenance jobs and performing some of the same work as that of the group directed unless such work includes operating pit production equipment. The direction generally consists of activities such as required to:
i)	Plan work to be performed by the group:
ii)	Determine "on-the-job" working procedure
69
in the case of repair and maintenance work;
iii)	Arrange for necessary tools, supplies and facilities;
iv)	Assign and instruct members of the group; and
v)	Inspect, co-ordinate and record the work performed by the group.
In recognition of the fact that Leadhands are required to work additional time prior to and after shift start for turnover meetings etc., leadhands will be paid a premium of one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour over the highest classification directed for all hours worked, during the period that the employee is acting as a Leadhand. This premium will not apply to any hours spent for pre shift or post shift activities.
19.02	(a) The assignment of a Leadhandto a crew will not impact the number of employees eligible to be off on such crew for any approved leave provided for in the Collective Agreement.
(b)	The selection of Leadhands for the purposes of assignments to various crews will be limited to properly trained and qualified employee(s) which have been designated by the Company as Leadhands prior to the assignment.
ARTICLE 20 TRAINING
20.01 The Company and Union recognizes the need for training opportunities to enable
70
each employee to improve his knowledge and skills to equip himself for future
positions of greater responsibility or higher pay for which he is eligible within the Line of Progression or through Job Postings.
20.02	(a) Each employee in training within a Line of
Progression shall meet with his foreman or the training foreman at least quarterly to review his progress. More frequent meetings will be arranged upon request of the employee in training.
(b)	Every attempt shall be made to enable an employee in training to successfully develop the requisite qualifications and ability. In the event an employee fails to qualify for progression in training, the Company shall advise the employee and Union in writing of the reasons for such failure and the employee shall be removed from further training.
(c)	All employees while training up through the Line of Progression will receive the rate of pay for the job they normally perform.
(d)	Employees bidding down a Line of Progression, will receive the rate of pay applicable for the position to which they posted.
20.03	Plant Operations Department
(a)	The Company will train according to the requirements on each particular crew using the training Lines of Progression as outlined inAppendix B.
(b)	i) All employees in classifications^ the Plant Operations Line of Progression marked with
71
an "X" who bid for other postings will only be awarded the job if a qualified replacement is available in the Line of Progression.
ii) If a vacancy is not filled according to normal Lines of Progression it will be posted in accordance with Article 6.06.
(c)	i) It is the objective of the Company to train senior Plant Operations employees in each classification at least one (1) job ahead. Where there is more than one (1) employee in a classification on a shift, the senior employee will complete training prior to the other one starting.
ii) Employees training ahead in the Plant shall become qualified when they have successfully completed both the practical and theory portions of the module training program.
(d)	Senior Load Out Operators will be:
i)	Given the choice of becoming a Tailings Trainee, a Dozer/Grader Trainee, Dryer Floor Patrolman or Inpit Serviceman Trainee providing the position he has chosen is vacant, subject to the requirements of the operation.
ii)	Load Out Operators must remain in the Line of Progression they have initially chosen.
(e)	i) Employees in the Plant Labourer classification, upon completing the training for loadout operator, will receive loadout operator rate.
ii) All senior Labourers selected for advancement will be paid Labourer rate until such time they are qualified on all jobs associated with Load Out Operator. At that
72
time, they will be re-classified as Load Out Operators.
(f)	The senior haulage truck driver will be given the choice of becoming a plant trainee or a utilityman trainee providing the position he has chosen is vacant. One (1) employee must be trained in each trainee classification.
(g)	Once qualified as a plantoperatoror a plant utilityman the trainee will receive the appropriate rate while performing work in that classification.
(h)	The average training hours through the Plant Line of Progression shall be:
Spray Operator...................7 Trains
Back End ........................13 Trains
Front End........................15 Trains
Utility Loader.......40 Hrs. and 6 Trains
Reclaim..........................8 Trains
Breaker Operator .................240	Hrs.
Conveyor Attendant.....................240	Hrs.
Tailings LineAttendant ...........240	Hrs.
Fines Circuit..........................450	Hrs.
HM - Cyc Circuit.......................450	Hrs.
Vessel Circuit ...................450	Hrs,
Dryer Floor............................450	Hrs.
Dryer Control..........................600	Hrs.
Plant Control..........................600	Hrs.
Dozer/Grader Operator..................800	Hrs.
Utilityman...........................1,300	Hrs.
73
20.04	Mine Operations Department
(a)	Successful applicants for Trainee positions will receive training when so scheduled and will receive the rate of pay for the job they normally perform.
(b)	In order to complete training in an efficient and productive manner, employees will have averaged approximately50% of their regular scheduled hours in training during the Trainee 3 and Trainee 2 phase of the program.
Once advanced to Trainee 1, the employee will be scheduled for the remainder of his training on a full time basis. This schedule is subject to operational factors and individual abilities. If more than one-half (1/2) of the trainees in any classification are in the Trainee 1 phase at one time, an adjustment in full time training may be made.
(c)	All employees in classifications in the Mines Operations Line of Progression marked with an "X" who bid for Trainee or other positions on their shift will only be awarded the job if a Trainee 1 or qualified back-up operator is available on their shift, or another employee in a back-up position or a Trainee I volunteers to trade shifts provided a vacancy exists in his current classification.
(d)	All operators marked with an "X" who bid for Trainee positionson a different shift will only be awarded the job if a vacant position for which they are qualified exists on the same shift as the trainee position, or another employee in a classification for which they are qualified volunteers to trade shifts. If the vacant position is not in his current classification, he may opt not to accept the
74
trainee position.
(e)	It is the objective of the Company to train senior employees in each classification in Lines of Progression other than Trainee positions at least one job ahead.
(f)	An employee who is training or has completed his training in a trainee position will not be eligible for other trainee vacancies or posted jobs until he has completed one (i) year from the time he was qualified as an operator; and he must accept an operator's position in the classification for which he has last received training, if the vacancy occurs within a year of his becoming qualified as an operator, and the vacancy is on his current shift. In applying this clause, it is understood that when there is more than one (1) qualified back-up for an operator'svacancy, the senior employee will be given preference.
(g)	Employees who voluntarily withdraw from a training program after having completed the Trainee 3 phase or blaster helper training, will not be eligible for further training for a six (6) month period.
(h)	Employees who have been specifically designated by the Company to train other employees to operate haul trucks shall be paid a premium of fifty cents ($0.50) per hour for each hour in which they are engaged in such training.
20.05	The average training hours for advancement through Trainee positions shall be:
75
A)	Excavator Operator	3 to 2	300 hours
2 to I	550 hours
1 to qualified Operator	550 hours
B)	Dozer/Grader Trainee	3 to 2
2 to I
I to qualified Operator
C)	Drill Operator Trainee	3 to 2
2 to 1
I to qualified Operator
D)	Front End Loader Trainee 3 to 2
(Mine Production)	2 to l
I to qualified Operator
300 hours 550 hours 550 hours 300 hours 450 hours 550 hours 100 hours 250 hours 250 hours
20.06	(a) It is the objective of the Company to train senior Road Crew employees in each classification at least one job ahead.
(b)The average hours for employees undergoing training for the Road Crew department shall be:
Utility Backhoe ............400 hours
Dozer/Grader ............... 900 hours
(c)	Both practical and theory portions of the module training program must be successfully completed before the employee is deemed qualified.
20.07	(a) It is the objective of the Company to have sufficient qualified, Trainee 1‘s on each shift to meet operational requirements.
76
(b) Both practical and theory portions of the module training program must be successfully completed before a Trainee is qualified.
20.08	Mine Maintenance Department
The average hours to complete training for jobs listed in the mine maintenance line of progression is:
Crane Operator.....government regulation
Maintenance Support.......... 288	hours
Fuel/Lube Truck.............. 288	hours
SteamTruck................... 144	hours
Steam Bay..................... 72	hours
ARTICLE 21
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
21.01	The Company and the Union agree that technological change is both necessary and desirable for the viability of the Company and the ongoing job security of its employees.
In recognition of the foregoing, the Company undertakes to reduce the effects of technological change on the job security and earnings of employees who are laid off, or permanently demoted as a direct consequence of technological change. Any dispute regarding the implementation of technological change shall commence at step three of the grievance procedure.
21.02	For the purpose of this Agreement, a 77
technological change shall be defined as the automation of equipment, or the mechanization or automation of duties which adversely affects employees in the bargaining unit through layoff or demotion from their present job classification.
21.03	The Company shall notify the Union not less than three (3) months in advance of intent to institute technological change, setting forth the estimated number of employees affected, together with the nature and extent of the change anticipated.
21.04	An employee who is initially given notice of layoff, demotion, or transfer as a direct result of the introduction of a technological change may:
(a)	Fill any available vacancy for which he has seniority and which he is able to perform; or
(b)	Displace another employee with less seniority provided he is qualified to perform the job.
ARTICLE 22 CONTRACTING OUT
22.01	The Company and the Union agree that contracting out of work performed by the employees in the bargaining unit will not be done for the purpose of laying off, demoting, terminating, or deferring the recall of bargaining unit employees.
22.02	Concerns regarding Contracting Out will be referred to the Joint Union Management Committee, as per Article 23, by the Joint
78
Contracting Out Committee (as defined in Letter of Understanding#!).
22.03	The shop steward in the area affected will be notified when contractors are working on site in their respective area.
ARTICLE 23
JOINT LABOUR MANAGEMENT
23.01	(a)The Labour/Management Committee shall consist of four (4) Employer designates and four (4) employees appointed by the Union. The Committee shall meet at the request of either party but not more than once per month at a place and time to be mutually agreed.
(b) The Committee shall be co-chaired by an Employer and Union Representative. The purpose of the meeting shall be to exchange information of mutual interest to review administrative matters arising from this Agreement, to review trends in training programs for the purpose of evaluating employee needs and to maintain effective Union/Management relations.
ARTICLE 24 TERM OF AGREEMENT
24.01	(a) This Agreement shall be for the period commencing June 19, 2000 and expiring October 31,	2003. Thereafter, this
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect from year to year subject to the right of
79
either Party to serve notice to commence bargaining as provided for in the Labour Relations Code of British Columbia.
(b)	During the period when negotiations are being conducted between the Parties for the renewal cf this Agreement, the present Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until:
i)	the Union commences a legal strike; <r
ii)	the Employer commences a legal lockout; or
iii)	the Parties enter into a new or further Agreement.
(c)	Notice to commence collective bargaining must be in written form.
24,02	The Company will arrange to have the Collective Agreement printed in booklet form at a Union printer and supplied to all bargaining unit members at no cost.
80
APPENDIX "A"
JOB CLASSIFICATION/ RATES ($/HR)
JOB	CLASSIFICATION	YEAR 1	(EAR 2	YEAR3
ILASS		2%	2%	2.5%
1	Tradesman -Certified	25.14	25.65	26.29
	70 Ton Crane Opr. - Certified			
1A	Warehouseman - Certified	24.57	25.06	25.69
2	Excavator Operator Plant Control Room Operator	24.00	24.48	25.09
	Rotary Drill Operator Dryer Control Room Operator	23.43	23.90	24.38
4	F.E. Loader (Mine Production) Blaster Road Crew Operator Plant Operator Uncertified Tradesmen 4th. Year Apprentice Tireman	22.86	23.32	23.90
5	Dozer/Grader Operator Plant Utllltyman Pit Utllityman 1 Road Crew Operator 1 Maintenance support operator	22.24	22.68	23.25
6	Haulage Truck in-Pit Serviceman Blaster 1 Tank Drill Road Crew operator 2 Tailings Line Attendant 3rd. Year Apprentice Tireman Trainee 1	21.61	22.05	22.60
81
JOB LASS	CLASSIFICATION	YEAR 1 2%	/EAR 2 2%	EAR3 2.5%
7	Lube/Fuel Truck Operator Plant Lubeman Road Crew Operator 3 Pit Utilityman 2	20.98	21.40	21.94
8	Dryer Floor Operator Breaker Patrolman Steam Truck Operator 2nd Year Apprentice Warehouse Helper HydroseederOperator Bldg. Mtc. BoomTruckOp Tireman Trainee 2	20.35	20.76	21.27
9	Load Out Operator Steam Bay Attendant	19.66	20.05	20.55
10	Blaster Helper Pit Utilityman 3 1st Year Apprentice Tireman Trainee 3	18.97	19.35	19.84
11	Labourer	18,40	18.77	19.24
82
APPENDIX 'B'
PLANT OPERATIONS LINES OF PROGRESSION
SECTION A
Plant Control |		
Room op (x) |		
Dryer Control |		Plant Utilityman
Room Oo (x) 1		(x)
i 			i
Plant		Plant Utilityman
Operator <x)		Trainee
		
Plant		Haulage Truck
Trainee		(x)
I Dryer Floor I Patrolman (x)
I Load Out I Operator (x)
I
I Load Out Op I Trainee
I
I Labourer
SECTION B
I Dozer/Grader 1 I Operator (x) I
I Dozer/Grader I Trainee_____
			
Tailings Attendant (x)			
			
Tailings Trainee			
			
SECTION C
83
APPENDIX B'- continued
PLANT OPERATIONS LINES OF PROGRESSION
Journeyman
Apprentice
84
APPENDIX C'
MINE MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
LINES OF PROGRESSION
Employees other than journeyman and apprentices will receive regular rate when training forthe nextjob up in the line of progression.
Once training is complete, they will receive the rate for the job they are performing
85
APPENDIX‘D’
MINE OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT
LINES OF PROGRESSION
86
APPENDIX ‘D’
MINE OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT LINES OF PROGRESSION Continued
87
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDING#1 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
JOINT CONTRACTING OUT COMMITTEE
Further to discussions at negotiations, the Company recognizes the value in maintaining an ongoing dialogue with the Union regarding the issue of contracting out. To this end, the Company and Union agree to establish a committee to address concerns the Union may have on contracting out.
The committee will include a core group of two (2) Company designates and two (2) employees appointed by the Union. Also, there may be one (1) additional Company designate and one (1) additional employee appointed by the Union who are ideally from the area or job the particular contract involves or who may have a particular concern with the issue(s) being discussed that makes it necessary for their attendance.
When reviewing contracting out practices for the purposes of the Joint Contracting Out Committee, the terms of reference shall be:
1. to preview planned work expected to be 88
contracted out and explore possible alternatives taking into consideration the efficiency of the operation, the urgency of the work to be performed, and the availability of the equipment, skills and manpower.
2. to review contracted work, with a view to what other options may have been possible and practicable.
The committee will also establish and maintain a reporting procedure on contracting out.
It is also understood that employee's time while in meetings or approved activities of the Joint Contracting Out Committee will be considered as time worked.
ELKVIEW
COAL CORPORATION
B.	Fleming D. Robinson J, Henderson D. Rouleau
L.	Sherman
M.	Barrie
June 17, 2000
89
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#2 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
NEWHIRE RESTRICTIONS
The Company agrees to waive the provisions outlined in Article 6.12 (a) for all employees who have completed their probation period.
It is understood however, that the Company reserves the right to revoke this Letter if operational requirements change, and the Company determines it is not feasible to continue this practice.
U.S.W.A,	ELKVIEW
LOCAL 9346	COAL CORPORATION
M, Park
C.	Kaprowski C. Nand
B.	Riehl
H.	Gandner
B.	Fleming D, Robinson J. Henderson
D.	Rouleau
L.	Sherman
M.	Barrie
June 17, 2000
90
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#3 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
TRAINING ■ COAL PLANT
The parties agree to have a committee comprised of not more than three (3) representatives of the Union and not more than three (3) representatives of the Company.
The purpose of this committee is to review, advise, and assist training procedures throughout the Coal Plant Lines of Progression where deemed practical and necessary.
This committee will meet on a mutually agreeable basis.
U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9346 M. Park C. Kaprowski C. Nand B. Riehl H. Gandner
ELKVIEW
COAL CORPORATION B, Fleming D. Robinson J. Henderson D, Rouleau
L.	Sherman
M.	Barrie
June 17, 2000
91
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#4 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
For the purposes of determining the probationary period for an employee who had previously worked as a special assignment employee, the following terms will apply:
1.	To be credited any hours previously worked as a special assignment employee towards the probationary period outlined in Article 5.02 of the Collective Agreement, such employee must have worked a minimum of five hundred and seventy six (576) hours as a special assignment employee in the twelve (12) months prior the permanent start date.
2.	Provided point#1 above is met, such employee will be credited fifty per cent (50%) of any hours worked as a special assignment employee towards his probationary period up to a maximum of one hundred and eighty (180) hours, provided such credited time worked was in the same department and classification as the permanent position being offered.
92
In addition to the above, it is agreed that employees who have worked as special assignment employees and are hired into a permanent position, shall have the application of Article 9.04 (a) iv) waived.
U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9346
M. Park
C.	Kaprowski
C.	Nand C. Kaprowski
H.	Gandner
June 22, 2000
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
B.	Fleming
D.	Robinson
J.	Henderson
D.	Rouleau
L.	Sherman
M.	Barrie
93
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDING#5 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENTAFTER PROLONGEDABSENCE
In cases where the Company receives pertinent medical information that provides a specific return to work date, employeeswill be exempt from termination of employment as providedfor in Article 5.06 (9.
However in such cases the following conditions will apply:
1.	Such medical information must be in the Company's possession one (1) month prior to the end of the one hundred and four (104) week period described in 5.06 (f).
2.	The specific return to work date must be within a reasonable time frame acceptable to the Company.
3.	Should the employee not return to work after the agreed to extension, the provisions outlined in Article 5.06 (9/vill be applied and the employee will be terminated.
U.S.W.A.,	ELKVIEW COAL
LOCAL 9346	CORPORATION
M. Park	B. Fleming
LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
June 17, 2000
94
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDING#6 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
ACCUMULATION OF SENIORITY DURING LAY-OFF
Company seniority will accumulate during lay-off for the following purposes only:
1.	Consideration for future job postings once recalled,
2.	For the purpose of recall in accordance with Article 5.05 (a) and (b).
3.	Consideration of seniority for future lay-offs or crew reductions.
If employees' are recalled back to their original department the provisions outlined in 6.02 (b) will be waived.
If recalled to another department the provisions outlined in 6.02 (b) will apply.
It is understood by both parties that seniority will not accumulate during lay-off for any other purpose.
U.S.W.A.,	ELKVIEW COAL
LOCAL 9346	CORPORATION
M. Park
B.	Riehl
C.	Nand
C.	Kaprowski H. Gandner
June 27, 2000
D. Rouleau
D.	Robinson
J.	Henderson F. Komenac
L.	Sherman
M.	Barrie
95
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDING#? BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
PROCEDURES GOVERNING LAYOFF-ARTICLE 5.09 fbt
Further to discussions at negotiations, the Company and Union have reached an agreement with regard to defining qualifications for those employees in Mine Maintenance, in the event of a reduction of employees resulting in a lay off of at least nine (9) calendar days but less than thirty (30) calendar days.
To be qualified in more than one particular work area at the time of layoff, the following conditions must be met:
1.	An employee must demonstrate that he has previously been a permanent member on the crew in an area within Mine Maintenance which was different from his current work area; and
2.	he must have worked in this other work area for a minimum of six (6) months; and
3.	the six (6) month period must have been worked in the two (2) years prior to the time of layoff.
LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
June 27, 2000
96
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #8 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
The purpose of this letter of understanding is to acknowledge the discussionwe had at the bargaining table regarding Article 1.04 of the Collective Agreement. The company recognizes the Union's concerns on this matter and is prepared to address this issue at the workplace.
The Union brought several examples forward regarding certain supervisors performing work that goes beyond what the parties discussed at the collective bargaining table. Both parties understand the necessity of having language in the Collective Agreement that gives supervisors the flexibility to assist bargaining unit employees for short periods of time. It is also understood that supervisors may perform certain tasks normally done by bargaining unit employees when it is necessary to ensure work is being done safely and production is not interfered with.
The Company recognizesthat certain supervisors and shop stewards may have a difficult time understanding the limitations of this language. Tb this end, we commit to joint discussions with all of our supervisors and shop stewards with the intent of giving everyone a clear understandingof what the language means. The Company is committedto making this process work as
97
the flexibility provided under Article 1.04 is cornerstone
to our ongoing success.
The parties will review this issue during our Joint Labour Management meetings with the intent of resolving problems as they occur. If the Union notes any specific problems in the workplace, they will communicate this immediately to the Company for investigation and resolve. This is intended to include shop stewards and their respective supervisors having ongoing discussions of any concerns that arise on a day to day basis.
On each anniversary date of this Agreement, the parties will meet with the specific intent of discussing the progress as related to the specific problems of Article 1.04. If the parties conclude the problem has not been addressed, the Company commits to discuss and agree to an alternative means of resolving this matter.
U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9346 M, Park C. Kaprowski
C.	Nand B, Riehl
D,	Sheets
November 1, 2000
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
B.	Fleming D, Robinson J. Henderson D, Rouleau
L.	Sherman
M.	Barrie
N.	Hauk
98
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #9 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
DEFINITION OF QUALIFIED
Qualified for the purpose of Article 5.09 (b) (iii) for those employees who work in work area's other then those described in Article 5.09 (b) (ii) shall mean that the employee must have previously held that position at Elkview Coal Corporation in the classification required within the last year of his employment. He must immediately be able to demonstrate his ability to perform the skills required to the satisfaction of the Company.
U.S.W.A.,
LOCAL 9346 M. Park
B.	Riehl
C.	Nand
C.	Kaprowski
H.	Gandner
July 10, 2000
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION D. Rouleau D. Robinson J. Henderson F. Komenac
L.	Sherman
M.	Barrie
99
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#^ BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL9346 (the Union)
VACATION ALLOTMENT - ARTICLE 10.03
Furtherto discussions at negotiations, the parties have reached an agreement on Article 10.03 of the Collective Agreement and how the scheduling of legislated leaves affect the application of this Article.
It is understood that in cases where any legislated leave affects the vacation allotment of a crew, and it is not practical to allow all the vacation allotted in addition to such leave, the Company will evaluate alternatives in regard to the most effective means of ensuring coverage for such leave. Such alternatives may include but are not limited to the following:
1.	the hiring of special assignment employees which will be over and above the limits established in Letter of Understanding #13;
2. utilizing summer students as per Letter of Understanding#^;
3.	the temporary transfer of employees from other crews or other departments.
100
If no practical alternatives can be found, any vacation time allotted to other employees on the crew may by canceled to facilitate the legislated leave. It is understood that the Company will meet with the Union before any such vacation is canceled to discuss the particular situation.
U.S.W.A.,	ELKVIEW COAL
LOCAL 9346	CORPORATION
M. Park
B.	Riehl
C.	Nand
C. Kaprowski
H.	Gandner
D.	Rouleau
D.	Robinson
J.	Henderson F. Komenac
L.	Sherman
M.	Barrie
July 10, 2000
101
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDINGS BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
OVERTIME BANKING
Banked time is established to allow employees the opportunity to take time off without loss of pay. It is available to those employees who have completed their probationary period.
Employees working overtime may elect, at the time the overtime is worked, to bank the overtime instead of receiving payment.
Overtime hours worked will be banked at the applicable overtime rate (ie. two (2) hours overtime worked at one and one-half (1 1/2) times = three (3) hours banked at straight time).
Only overtime worked over and above your normal work schedule, overtime worked on a Statutory Holiday, or overtime which is paid at overtime rates under 8.05 (a), may be banked. (Training hours, all hours described in Articles 8.08 (a) i), 8.08 (b) and
8.10	cannot be banked).
Employees may accumulate a maximum of ninety-six (96) hours straight time at any given time.
Employees may take a maximum of forty-eight (48) hours banked time off in any calendar year. Banked time off may be broken into blocks of hours at a time, provided it is mutually agreed to between the parties.
102
Accrued banked overtime hours may be carried over into the next calendar year, but the maximum of forty-eight (48) hours banked time off in any calendar year applies.
If the scheduling <f banked time off conflicts with the scheduling of vacation, vacation requests received prior to February 15 will be given preference. Preference for banked time off will be determined on the basis of company seniority within the department of those employees whose applications for banked time off are received by February 15th in each year. Banked time off requests received after February 15th will be allocated, based on the dates they are received, on a first received, first scheduled basis.
The Company will grant banked time off at times most preferable to employees, provided that such requests do not unreasonably interfere with the requirements of operations.
An employee may request one (1) pay-out of banked time per calendar year.
All banked time will be paid out upon termination. Hours will be banked at the employee's base hourly rate and hours will be paid out at the rate they were banked. Any rate overrides associated with working in a higher classification associated with the overtime hours banked will be paid in the pay period earned.
U.S.W.A.,	ELKVIEW COAL
LOCAL 9346	CORPORATION
M. Park C. Kaprowski C. Nand B. Riehl
H.	Gandner
November 1, 2000
B. Fleming
D.	Robinson J. Plenderson
D.	Rouleau
L.	Sherman N. Hauk
M.	Barrie
103
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#12 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT Preamble:
It is generally recognized that there is a benefit to the parties in providing job opportunities for summer employment to post-secondary students. As such the parties agree that the following terms and conditions shall apply in the employment of students at the operation.
Purpose:
The purpose of hiring students is to provide job opportunities for post-secondary students. It is recognized that the hiring of students will result in an increase in the number of employees eligible to be off for vacation during peak vacation periods and may result in an increased opportunity for training for bargaining unit members. Preference will be given to son's and daughter's of Elkview employees provided they possess the necessary qualifications.
Terms and Conditions:
1.	The hiring of students under this letter shall be restricted to the period of April 15th to September 15th.
104
2.	Student employees working in job classes 1 through 6 shall be paid the appropriate rate for that classification.
Student employees shall be paid at a rate of seventy five per cent (75%) for all work performed in job classes 7 through 11.
3.	Students shall not qualify for Article 16, Health and Welfare benefits.
4.	Students shall be paid four per cent (4%) vacation pay each pay day.
5.	The selection of students who are son's and daughter's of Elkview employees, shall be done by a joint committee consisting of two (2) bargaining unit members selected by the Union and two (2) management representatives selected by the Company, all of whom cannot have a vested interest in decisions of the committee. All applications considered by the committee must be on a generic prescribed form that will have no indication as to the identity of the applicant. Such form will only contain information pertinent to the job being applied for. This committee shall forward their recommendations to the Employee Relations department.
6.	All student employees hired must be eighteen (18) years of age, possess a valid B.C. Driver's Licence or equivalent and provide proof of registration in a post-secondary institution for the following school year.
7.	Students may not be employed in the
105
performance of bargaining unit work when a regular employee who is qualified to perform such work is laid off. The employment of students shall not result in the displacement or lay off of regular bargaining unit members. In the event of a crew reduction while students are employed in the performance of bargaining unit work, students shall be laid off before any Special Assignment or regular bargaining unit members are laid off.
8.	Students shall only be entitled to be employed for work during the summer months under this letter on three (3) occasions. In the event that there are more student jobs than student applicants, this provision shall be waived.
9.	Students may only be assigned to work that they are properly qualified to do. All students shall be trained or re-familiarized for work they will be assigned prior to starting such assignments. All students when hired shall attend a new employee orientation session.
10.	Students shall not acquire seniority.
This Letter of Understanding can be withdrawn by either party in the month of October in any calendar year.
U.S.W.A.,	ELKVIEW COAL
LOCAL 9346	CORPORATION
M. Park
B.	Riehl
C.	Nand
C. Kaprowski H. Gandner
June 28, 2000
B. Fleming D. Robinson
J.	Henderson F. Komenac
L.	Sherman
M.	Barrie
106
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#^ BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS
In an effort to reduce contracting out and to provide employment in the Elk Valley, the Company and the Union agree to the following terms and conditions for the hiring of employees under this Letter of Understanding.
The need may arise to hire employees to perform special assignments of work from time to time where it is not feasible to utilize or hire a regular employee.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions will apply to Special Assignments:
1.	Special assignment is defined as work which is of a temporary nature. The following are only examples and it is agreed that special assignments are not limited to these examples.
i)	vacation relief
ii)	sickness and accident relief Hi) special projects
107
iv)	special maintenance
v)	leaves of absences.
2.	Persons hired on special assignment will be terminated when that special assignment of work comes to an end, and shall have no seniority rights.
3.	Special assignments will be clearly defined as to the type of work to be done and the duration of the work.
4.	Special assignments will not exceed ninety-six (96) calendar days unless both parties mutually agree to extend these time limits.
5.	Special assignment employees will receive the rate of pay for the job they are doing and in addition will receive sixty cents ($0 ,60) per hour in lieu of benefits.
6.	Special assignment employees must be members of the union as per Article 1.06 of the Collective Agreement.
7.	Employees considered for special assignment will be hired on their own merits and any previous mining experience will be considered an asset. It is understood that the hiring of special assignment employees is not subject to the grievance procedure.
8.	There will be no more than a number equal to 108
five per cent (5%) of the bargaining unit workforce hired under this Letter at any given time. The number may be expanded by mutual agreement to meet operational requirements.
9.	The hiring of special assignment employees will not replace permanent jobs or employees.
10.	All Special Assignment employees shall receive four per cent (4%) vacation pay on gross wages. Vacation pay will be paid bi-weekly.
11.	Both parties recognize that an additional purpose of this Letter of Understanding is to afford the company better opportunities to provide leave of absence, preferred vacation times and time off work for permanent employees.
U.S.W.A.,
LOCAL 9346
M. Park C. Kaprowski C. Nand
B.	Riehl
H.	Gandner
June 22, 2000
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
D. Rouleau D. Robinson J. Henderson F. Komenac
L.	Sherman
M.	Barrie
109
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#^ BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
SPLIT CLASSIFICATIONOVERRIDE RATE
For those employees who are qualified to operate either the Dozer or the Grader in the Dozer/Grader classification, the following rate will apply when they operate such equipment:
These rates will be subject to the rate increases outlined in Appendix “A.
This Letter will not apply to any employees in trainee classifications.
LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
Dozer
Grader
Tramming Loader
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
son
rson
an
ng
au
September 1,2000
110
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #15 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
UNION LEAVE PAY
Elkview Coal Corporation agrees to continue wages and benefits of those on union leave subject to the following terms and conditions:
1.	All amounts paid will be re-billed to the Union for the purpose of reimbursement as per Article 11.06.
2.	The re-billing will include:
i)	Hours paid times applicable hourly rates, (including premiums, etc.)
ii)	Vacation pay percentage.
3.	The re-billing will occur once each month for the pay periods ended in the previous month.
4.	The Union will remit payment within thirty (30) days of receiving the billing.
U.S.W.A.,	ELKVIEW COAL
LOCAL 9346	CORPORATION
M. Park
C.	Kaprowski C. Nand
B.	Riehl
H.	Gandner
June 17, 2000
B.	Fleming D, Robinson
J.	Henderson D. Rouleau
L.	Sherman
M.	Barrie
111
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #16 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
CONTRACT SETTLEMENT PAYMENT
The Company agrees to pay to each employee who is active on the payroll at the date of ratification, a one time only Contract Settlement Payment in the sum of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00).
This payment shall be made within four (4) weeks of the ratification of the Collective Agreement
U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9346
M. Park
B.	Riehl
C.	Nand
C. Kaprowski H, Gandner
September 1,2000
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
D. Robinson
J.	Henderson
L.	Sherman
M.	Barrie
N.	Hauk
B. Fleming
112
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDING#!7 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
GROUP RRSP PLAN RETIREMENT BENEFITS
All retirement benefits paid out by the Company are payable by Elkview Coal Corporation and will cease when Elkview Coal Corporation discontinues operations due to:
1.	economic reasons
2.	market reasons
3.	labour disputes
4.	lock-outs
To receive such benefits as described under Article 17.07, retired employees, and their spouse, who are requiredto pay for their own medical service plan must submit on an annual basis for the five years following date of retirement, receipts showing the amount paid for this benefit. Upon receipt the company will reimburse the employee for this amount. All employees must apply for any reductions they are eligible for subject to government regulations.
Current eligible permanent employees who join the plan priorto March 31st, 2001 will be eligible for this benefit even if they don't meet the eligibility requirementof twelve (12) years in the plan discussed under 17.07(e).
113
Those employees who are currently in the plan will have their time in the plan back dated to their last date of hire.
U.S.W.A.,	ELKVIEW
LOCAL9346	COAL CORPORATION
M. Park
C.	Kaprowski
C.	Nand
B.	Riehl
H.	Gandner
B.	Fleming
D.	Robinson
J.	Henderson D. Rouleau
L.	Sherman
M.	Barrie
N.	Hauk
June 17, 2000
114
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDING #18 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
JOINT PFNSION/ GROUP PI AN COMMITTFF
The Company and the Union agree to the establishment of a Joint Pension/Group Plan Committee comprised of two (2) company and two (2) union representatives for the purpose cf establishing guidelines related to the administration of the Joint Pension/Group Planforthe members of the bargaining unit.
U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9346 M. Park C. Kaprowski C. Nand B. Riehl H. Gandner
June 17, 2000
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION B, Fleming
D.	Robinson J. Henderson
D.	Rouleau
L,	Sherman
M,	Barrie
N,	Hauk
115
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING# 19 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
OUTSIDE DEPARTMENT TRANSFERS
Once a trades vacancy has been posted and the transfers within that Department completed, trades employees from other Departments who have applied for a transfer will be given consideration prior to filling the vacancy through the posting procedure provided the following provisions are met:
1.	They may only apply for a job within their own trade:
2.	Should the Company approve the transfer the employee must accept the new position;
Such requests will not be unreasonably denied. The Company will not be required to pay overtime rates for the exercise of the employees' preference, except if he works additional hours which qualify for overtime.
The employee will be restricted from making a transfer to another department for a period of one (1) year.
116
The parties recognize that the final vacancy may conclude in a different department from the original posting and have agreed that for the purpose of awarding this posting, all qualified applicants will be considered and awarded the job on the basis of their Company seniority.
U.S.W.A.,	ELKVIEW COAL
LOCAL 9346	CORPORATION
M. Park
C.	Kaprowski
H.	Gandner
B.	Riehl
C.	Nand
D.	Robinson F. Komenac
J.	Henderson M. Barrie L. Sherman
D.	Rouleau
July 11, 2000
117
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#20 BETWEEN
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION (the Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9346 (the Union)
Further to discussions in negotiations the parties agree to establish the following procedure that will accommodate crew requests for a modified work week for employees who currently work a forty (40) hour week on a 5 x 2 schedule. The principles to be applied by the parties in establishing these modified work schedules is that the employees are given a more agreeable work schedule during the summer months at no extra cost to the company.
1.	The modified week would be in effect for the summer months only and crews would be scheduled back on 5 x 2 in September.
2.	The only modified schedule allowed would be a combination of eight (8) and twelve (12) hour shifts totaling forty (40) hours per week.
3.	Prior to implementation, any modified work week schedule must be set up to ensure that eight (8)hour shifts match up with any Statutory Holidays that fall within that period.
4.	Any employee scheduling a floater during the
118
period of time he is on a modified work schedule will only be paid eight (8) hours pay.
5.	Any employee normally scheduled to work Monday to Thursday on the modified work week may have their schedule changed to Tuesday to Friday during those weeks where a Statutory Holiday occurs. This can be determined when drafting up the modified work schedule.
6.	The crews will be assessed on a crew by crew basis as to who can and who cannot go on to modified work week. It is also understood that if in the opinion of the company a certain schedule is not working for a certain crew then that crew may be rescheduled to 5x2.
7.	In the case of bereavement leave employees will still be entitled to the four (4) working days outlined in the Collective Agreement.
Overtime will be paid as follows:
DAILY OVERTIME
For Scheduled Eight (8) Hour Shift
1.	One and one half (1 1/2) times regular hourly rate for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a work day.
2.	Two (2) times regular hourly rate for time worked in excess of ten (10) hours in a work day.
119
For Scheduled Twelve f121 Hour Shift
Two (2) times regular hourly rate for time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in a work day.
WEEKLY OVERTIME
1. One and one half (1 1/2) times regular hourly rate for time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week.
2.	One and one half (1 1/2) times for the first eight (8) hours worked on scheduled rest days.
3.	Two (2) times regular hourly rate for time worked in excess of forty-eight (48) hours in a work week, excluding those hours in excess of scheduled work day (ie: 8/12).
4.	Two (2) times regular hourly rate for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours on a scheduled rest day.
U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9346
M. Park C. Kaprowski C. Nand H. Gandner B. Riehl
June 22, 2000
ELKVIEW COAL CORPORATION
D. Rouleau D. Robinson
J.	Henderson F. Komenac
L.	Sherman
M.	Barrie
120
PAYDAY
2001
STATS
CREWD
122
JULY
CREW A ~~
AUG.						e	7			10	11	12	13	14	15	15	17	18	19	20	?1	??	77	?4	75	76	?7	?fi	29 30		71
				s		M		W					M		W	T	F	R	A	M	T	w	T			S					
	1)	N	N					u>	L>	N	N					D	n	N	N					n	n	N					
			U	M	N					D	D	N	N					n	n		N					n			M		
				U	U	IV	N					D	D	N	N						n	N	N					n		M	M
	H					u	L)	N	N					O O		N	N					LI)	D	Kj	N					0	D
cm
NOV.			3		5					-min		12	13	14	1b	16 17	18	19	?n	?1	7?	77	74	?s	?fi	77	7ft	79	70
			S				W					M		W		F S	S	M		w			R	ft			W	7	p
				l)	l)	N	N					D		N		[			n	n	N	N					0		M
						D	D	N	N					D		N N					n	n		N					
			N					D	□		N					D D	N						n		N	M			
				N	N					u	D	N	N				L>	U	N	N					D	L>	N	N	
123
124
OCT.	1	2	3	4		6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	?n	71	77	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	3D	31
		W		I-	S	S	M		W	7	l-	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	R		M	T	W	T			ft	M	T	W	T
CREW A	N					0	0	N	N					0	n	N	N					n	n	N	N					n	n
	D	N	N					0	D	N	N					n	r>	N	N					n	n	N	N				
CREW C		U	L>	N	N					D	D	N						n	n	N						n	n		N		
CREWD	i			L)	U	N	N					D		N	N					D	n	N						n	n	N	N
																															
							!		9	10			13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	71	7?	73	74	76	76	77	78	?9	3D	
			S	M		W			S	ft	M		W		F		ft	M	T	W			ft		M		w				
CREW A	N						0		N	N					n		N	N					n	n	N						
	L>	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					n	n	N						n	n	N				
			D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					n	n	N	N					n	n	N	N	
					L)	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					n	n	
																															
							/		9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	?n	71	77	73	74	75	76	77	78	79	30	31
		M		W			S	55	M	T	W			S		M	T	W	T				M	T	w	T	F		ft	M	T
	0	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					n	n	N	N					n	n	N	N			
			U	L)	N	N					D	D	N	N					n	n	N	N					n		N	N	
CREW C					U	D	N	N					D	n	N	N					n	n	N	N					n	n	N
	N						O	U	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D
N>
CJl
2003							STATS						PAYDAY																		
JAN.	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	W	I	h	S	S	M	I	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F
CREW A		D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					a	n	N	N		
CREW B				D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N
CREW C	N					L)	U	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					n	n
CREWD	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D		N	N					D	D	N	N				
																															
FEB.	1	2	3	4	5	6	/	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28			
	8	8	M	T	W	I	h	8	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	8	8	M	T	W	T	F			
CREW A			D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					0	n	N	N					n	n			
CREW B					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N I					D	D	N	N							
CREW C	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D I N		N					n	D	N	N					
CREWD	D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N				I D		D	N	N					D	D	N	N			
																															
MAR.	1	2	3	4	5	6	/	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	??	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	8	S	M	T	W	I	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	8	8	M
CREW A	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					n	D	N	N					n
CREW B	D	D	N	N					0	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N			
CREW C			D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					n	n	N	N					D	D	N	N	
CREWD					D	U	N	N					D	D N		N					D	0	N	N					D	D	N
																															
APR.										10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
	T	W			S	8	M	1	W	T		S	S	M		W			8	8	M	T	W		F	S	8	M	T	W	
CREW A	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	n	N	N				
CREW 6		D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N		
CREW C				D	D		N					D	D	N	N					n	n	N	N					D	D	N	
CREWD I N						V	D	N N						D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	
																															
MAY					5	6	7	8		10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	T		S	S	M		W	1		S	S	M	T	W			S		M	T	w	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	a
CREW A		D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N		
CREW B				D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	n	N	N					n	n	N	N
CREW C	N					D	D	N	N					n	D	N	N					n	n	N	N					n	n
CREWD	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N				
																															
JUNE							7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
	8	M	T	W	T	h	8	8	M	T	W	T	F	R	8	M	T	W	T	F	8	8	M	T	W	T		S	R	M	
CREW A			D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					0	D	N	N					D	D	N	N	
CREW B					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					n	n	N	N					D	D	
CREW C	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					n	D	N	N					
CREWD	D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N			
126
SEPT.	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8 9		10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	27	23	24	25	26	27	26	29	30
	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T
CREW A	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N				
CREW B	D	0	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	n	N	N					D	n	N	N		
CREW C			D	D	N	N |					D	D	N	N					D	0	N	N					D	D	N	N
CREWD					D	D N							D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D
15 )r16
NOV.	1	2	3				7	8	9	10	11 1 12		13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
	S	S	M		W		F	S	S	M		W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T		R	S	M		W	T	F	S	S
CREW A		D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D		N	N	
CREW B				D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N
CREW C	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D
CREWD	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N					D	D	N	N			
I 24 I 25 I 26 r
CREWD