1985-,19£(9 MEMORANDUM^ BETWEEN FORDING COAL AND U.S.W.A.,
SOURCE

*m.	t
' !*■ »' T*l' B*
No. Of WMRes
NOMSRE
LOc/kSSttS^-lii

$%oU
swtssg <st&*

00193 (02)
ARTICLE 11	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS................31
ARTICLE 12	WAGES.............................34
Standard Hourly Wage Scale........34
Out-of-Line Differentials.........36
Temporary Transfer or Assignment.. - 37
Trainee Rates.....................38
Incentives........................38
General...........................38
Time Off for CWS Committee........38
Interim Provisions................39
Conversion to Standard Hourly Wage
Scale Rates.....................40
Company Orientation...............40
ARTICLE 13	PREMIUMS..........................41
On Call...........................41
Emergency Rescue Team PTHTtiltmTs.. 42
Lead Hand.........................42
Trainer Classification............42
ARTICLE 14	SENIORITY.........................43
Probationary Period...............43
Permanent or Indefinite Layoff....47
Recall............................50
Temporary or Emergency Layoff.....52
Displacement......................52
ARTICLE 15	JOB POSTING AND ADVANCEMENT. 55
Job Posting Procedure.............56
interdepartmental Jobs............57
Within Department Jobs............59
Job Advancement...................62
ARTICLE 16	TRAINING AND APPRENTICESHIPS.. 72
Tool, Text Rebates................73
ARTICLE 17	VACATIONS WITH PAY................74
Vacation Scheduling...............76
Vacation Adjustment...............76
Unpaid Leave......................77
Seasonal Vacation Bonus...........77
MEMORANDUM OF Agreement - 4 Days On, 4 Days Off
12 Hour Shift Schedule
A.	Employees Covered by Agreement............122
B.	General Conditions........................122
C.	Overtime Work.............................124
D.	Statutory Holidays........................126
R	Bereavement Leave.........................127
F.	Jury Duty/Witness Pay.....................127
G.	Vacations with Pay Vacation Adjustment Special Vacation
H.	Premiums..................................130
I.	Sickness and Accident.....................130
J.	On Call...................................130
K.	Exclusions................................131
SCHEDULE ‘A’. Wage Schedule .................131
Job Classifications..'........132
COLA..........................134
ARTICLE 2. NO STRIKES, NO LOCKOUTS
2.01	The Union agrees that neither the Union nor its officers nor representatives, nor its members, northe employees, shall in any way authorize, encourage or participate in any strike, work stoppage, walk-out, slow-down, or any act of similar nature which would in any way interfere with, limit or impede the operations of the Company during the term of this Agreement.
2.02	In case any of the aforementioned acts should occur in violation of the above, the Company shall, in addition to all its other rights and remedies, have the right to discharge or discipline any or all of the employees taking part in such act or acts, providing, however, that any such action by the Company shall be subject to the grievance procedure if an employee believes he has been discharged or disciplined unjustly.
2.03	The Company agrees that there shall be no lockout of employees during the term of this Agreement. In the event the Company should lockout its employees in violation of this Agreement, the Union shall have the right to seek all remedies that it may be entitled to by law.
ARTICLE 3. RECOGNITION
3.01	Union Recognition
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive representative for the purpose of conducting collective bargaining regarding all working conditions of employees employed at the Company’s operations, and the Company will continue to recognize the Union as long as the Union retains its right to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of such employees under the law.
3.02	Employees Covered by the Agreement
(a)	The word “employees” as used in the Agreement means all employees in the employ of the Company at the operation of Fording Coal Limited in the 2
3.05 The Company shall provide the Union with the following information pertinent to < imployees in Local 7884:
A listing of employees (quarte dresses and job classifications River Operations seniority, and \lvi rent basis:
ly) showing names, ad-isted in order of Fording also provide on a cur-
fa) copies of job postings, Job a wards and employee demotions;
(b)	listings of hirings, discharges, resignations, retirements and deaths;
(c)	job classifications and jo descriptions;
The Company agrees that a se< In each section at the operatiorL ble to the Union for Its purposes of such boards be restricted tc regarding the business affairs, mi of the Union, and the reports of of the Union, and provided that
cjtlon of a bulletin board s shall be made availa-, provided that the use the posting of notices ^etlngs and social events the various committees no such notice may be
(e) To make and to alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by all employees. The Union and affected employees shall be notified of any new or changed rule or regulation taking effect.
4.02	It is expressly understood that all rights not specifically covered by this Agreement shall remain the rights of the Company and nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as limiting the regular and usual rights of the Company.
4.03	This Article will not be used in a discriminatory manner against any employee or group of employees and management rights under this Article shall not be exercised in any way inconsistent with or contrary to any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5. UNION SECURITY
5.01	The Company shall honour a written assignment of wages by an employee to the Union or to the International Union in a form agreed to by the Company and Union for Union dues, initiation fees, death benefit assignments and one International Union assessment (excluding fines) not exceeding four dollars ($4.00) per year.
5.02	The Company shall deduct, as a condition of each employee’s continued employment, a sum equivalent to Union dues prorated to conform with the bi-weekly pay system as follows:
5.03	Union dues for each employee shall be equal to .923 hours of total (gross)earnings each two (2)weeks during the reference period (as defined herein) save that the minimum dues during such period shall be $2.31 and maximum dues as communicated by the Union in writing to the Company.
5.04	The total earnings perhour of each employee shall be calculated by dividing the total earnings in the refer-
6
Agreement, with the pay period for which his first pay cheque from the Company is received by him.
5.09	As early as possible in each calendar year, and no later than February 15, the Company shall provide the Local with an individual statement listing the total of Union dues (or equivalent) deducted from the pay of each employee during the calendar year and paid to the Union in accordance with this Article. Appropriate forms will be supplied by the Union no later than September 15th of each year.
5.10	The Union agrees to indemnify the Company and save it harmless against any claim which may arise in complying with the provisions of this Article, and notwithstanding any provisions contained in this Article, the responsibility on the part of the Company for dues shall not exceed the amount of an employee’s unpaid wages in the hands of the Company.
ARTICLE 6. UNION BUSINESS
6.01	Leave of Absence
On two (2) weeks’ notice and written application by the Union to the General Manager, Fording Operations, the Company agrees to grant a leave of absence, without pay, to an employee appointed to a position with the International of the United Steelworkers of America or for the business purposes of the International.
Such leave of absence shall be limited to a maximum period of one year. The Company shall not be required to grant the privilege under this section to more than two (2) employees at the same time.
6.02	On two (2) weeks’ notice and written application by the Union to the General Manager, Fording River Operations, the Company agrees to grant a leave of absence, without pay, for up to three (3) years to an employee
8
save and except upon conclusion of the leave the employee's seniority shall include the period of the leave. The period of the leave shall be considered as service with the Company for pension purposes and for the purpose of calculating Company service for vacation entitlement (but not vacation pay). During the period an employee is on leave pursuant to marginal paragraphs 6.01 and 6.02 the Company shall continue to make available to the employee the benefits provided for in Article 22, but it shall be the obligation of the employee to pay all the costs thereof.
6.05	Art employee who is on leave of absence pursuant to marginal paragraph 6.03 and such leave exceeds thirty (30) consecutive calendar days shall also be required to pay all the costs of all benefits provided under Article 22. This marginal paragraph shall not apply to an employee ifthe absence isforthe purpose of collective bargaining between the Union and the Company.
6.06	No person shall solicit membership in the Union or in any other labour organization, orcollect dues for the Union or any other labour organization, or engage in any Union or labour organization activity on Company time or within the plants or workings of the Company except to the extent expressly provided for in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 7. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01
(a)	The Union will endeavor to provide one Steward per crew and a Grievance Committee of not more than five members.
(b)	The Union will notify the Company in writing of the names of all officers, committeemen and stewards, and of any changes in the same.
10
All grievances submitted to the Company must clearly outline the nature of the grievance, the remedy sought and the sectlon(s) of the Agreement which are alleged to have been violated. Any statement of fact or other written material presented by the Union will be without prejudice to the position of the employee or the Union. Similarly, any written material presented by the Company will be without prejudice to the position of the Company. The objective of each party during the grievance procedure is to provide as much full disclosure as possible of all known tacts regarding a grievance and that every effort should be made by the parties to resolve grievable matters at the lowest level of supervision.
Stepl Within thirty (30)calendar days afterthe alleged grievance has arisen or within thirty (30) calendar days from the time the employee(s) should reasonably have known of the occurrence giving rise to the grievance, a Shop Steward may present the grievance in writing to the employee(s)' Foreman. At the option of the Shop Steward, the employee(s) may be in attendance. The Foreman shall record the facts as presented, investigate the grievance and provide a written answer within three (3) days.
Failing a satisfactory resolution, the grievance may proceed to Step 2.
Step 2 Within five (5) days from the time a decision was made or should have been made under Step 1, the Shop Steward may present the grievarice in writing to the em-ployee(s)' General Foreman. At the option of the Shop Steward the employee(s) may be in attendance. The em-ployee(s)’ General Foreman shall investigatethe grievance and provide a written answer to the grievance within three (3) days.
Failing a satisfactory resolution, the grievance may proceed to Step 3.
Step 3 Within five (5) days from the time a decision was made or should have been made under Step 2, the Chief 12
(i)	M.l. Cherlkow, Kamloops, B.C.
(ii)	A. Hope, Prince George, B.C.
(Ill) V. Ready, Vancouver, B.C.
(iv) B. Williams, Vancouver, B.C. (Swinton & Co.)
(b)	The decision of the arbitrator in respect of an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement shall be final and binding upon the parties, but in no event shall the arbitrator have the power to alter, modify or amend this Agreement in any respect. Each party shall pay the expenses incurred in connection with the presentation and preparation of its own case.
The parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the arbitrator.
(c)	The arbitrator shall hear the parties to the grievance and shall render his decision within a maximum of thirty days following the .hearing.
7.05	Expedited Arbitration
The parties agree to incorporate the Section 112 procedure of the B.C. Labour Code into this Collective Agreement as follows:
(a)	Where a difference arises between the parties relating to the dismissal, discipline, or suspension of an employee, or to the interpretation, application, operation or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter isarbitrable, during the term of the Collective Agreement, Mr. M.l. Chertkow, or Mr. V. Ready, or a substitute, as agreed to by the parties shall, at the request of either party:
(i)	investigate the difference;
(ii)	define the issue in the difference; and,
(iii)	make written recommendations to resolve the difference within five (5) days of the date of
14
7.07	The Company shall have the right to refer any dispute regarding the interpretation of or a violation of this Agreement in writing to the Grievance Committee of the Union. Failing a satisfactory settlement of the dispute within five (5) days of the submission, the Company shall have the right to refer the dispute to arbitration constituted in accordance with this Article.
7.08	The procedure for settling disputes set out in this Article shall be strictly adhered to, but the Union shall have the right to:
(a)	file a group grievance at Step 2, in which case the grievor(s) possible of identification shall sign the grievance form.
(b)	file a Union or Policy grievance at Step 3.
All Union grievances filed at Step 3 will be signed by a Chief Shop Steward.
7.09	In all cases while disputes are being investigated and settled the employee(s) and all other parties involved, except an employee serving a disciplinary suspension, must continueto work, but where an employee(s) has been discharged by the Company, he shall not remain in the employ of the Company while his case is being investigated and settled.
A grievance claiming that an employee(s) has been unjustly discharged must be filed within five (5) days of the Union being notified, in writing, by the Company of such discharge, failing which any recourse to the grievance procedure shall be deemed to have been abandoned.
If a claim for unjust discharge is made as herein provided, the case shall be dealt with according to this Article, and if it is proven that heorthey have been unjustly dealt with, he or they shall be reinstated and it shall be left with the Grievance Committee of the Union and the Management of the Company to decide what amount, if any, is to be paid to the employee(s) concerned, and failing
16
able) must be present when an employee is disciplined or suspended pending investigation.
(b) In cases of discharge or suspension a Chief Shop Steward or his designate must be present.
7.14	All discipline shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure. Any employee disciplined will be given two (2) copies of the disciplinary note.
ARTICLE 8. SAFETY AND HEALTH
8.01	The Company and the Union, realizing the benefits to be derived from a safe and healthy place of employment, agree that they and all employees, Union Safety Representatives, Stewards and Officers and Supervision at all levels shall co-operate to promote safe work practices, health conditions and the enforcement of safety rules.
8.02	Accident investigation Procedure
(a)	The Company and Union agree to co-operatively conduct accident investigations. Such investigations will involve supervision from the area and/or a Company Safety Officer and a Union Safety Representative. Priorto the conclusion of that work day if possible, the Union Safety Representative and Company will prepare the properdocumentation and distribute copies to those concerned. The Foreman and Union Safety Representativewill determine whether or not an investigation is required.
(b)	The Company and Union agree to investigate as soon as possible all accidents to make recommendations for remedial or preventative action. The Company's Safety Officer will be responsible for notifying the Safety Representative and will arrange for the time and place of investigation prior to the conclusion of that work day. Such investigations will include at
18
the Company will notify each other in writing of the identity of their Joint Safety and Health Committee Representatives.
8.04	The responsibilities of the Joint Committee shall be:
(a)	To make regular inspections of the plants and areas of work.
(b)	To review reports of accidents and incidents and to make recommendations for remedial or preventive action.
(c)	To meet regularly to take up such safety and health matters which may be brought before it by either the Union or the Company.
(d)	To review the Company’s Safety Rules and make recommendations on amendments or additions.
8.05	The Company Safety Representative will act as Secretary of all Safety Committees and will provide minutes of meetings for Management, for all Committee Members, for those who attended the meeting, for the Union, and will have posted a copy of the minutes on the bulletin boards. At following meetings discussion of the minutes shall be first order of business.
If the Union disagrees with the accuracy of the minutes as prepared, it shall set forth reasons for such disagreement in writing and forward to the Company, which disagreements will then form part of the minutes.
8.06	Quarterly Safety Meetings
The President, Safety Chairman and Chief Shop Steward of the Local Union shall meet quarterly with the General Manager and Safety Representatives of the Company's operations to review the reports and recommendations of the Joint Safety and Health Committee and discuss other matters pertaining to safety, accident prevention and industrial hygiene. The Union and the Company shall 20
the employee and the Union Shift Safety Representative may discuss the matter with the General Foreman, and if in their opinion it is desirable to discuss it with the Department Superintendent, who will decide on the steps to be taken to correct the situation.
The Union will notify the Company in writing of the Safety Chairman’s designate in each of the appropriate departments (Plant, Maintenance and MineOper-ations).
(d)	If the Union Safety Chairman is not satisfied with the answer of the department Superintendent, the Safety Chairman, after consulting with the employee, may refer the matter to the activity Manager and General Manager, and if he is still not satisfied with the answer he received, the Company and Union may jointly apply to the Mines Inspection Branch to obtain an interpretation on the applicable regulation(s) in the Mines Act and Coal Mines Regulation.
(o) Upon making the appropriate arrangements with the section General Foreman or the department Superintendent the Union Safety Chairman will have access to any area of the operations at any time. The department Superintendent or his delegate will accompany the Union Safety Chairman.
8.03	Crew Safety Meetings
The Company shall hold crew safety meetings on a monthly basis and shall be responsible for taking minutes at all safety meetings. A summary of the minutes together with a tentative schedule of the next crew safety meeting shall be posted a^ least one (1)week in advance on the appropriate bulletin boards.
8.09	Safety Rules and Hazardous Materials
The Company will provide each employee with a copy of its Safety Rules, information on hazardous materials, and 22
8.11	Personal Protective Equipment
The Company shall continue to furnish protective equipment and other safety devices in accordance with the present policy subject to such improvements or changes as may be implemented from time to time.
The frequency of issue and replacement of personal protective equipment shall be determined by Company Policy in effect, Each department will familiarize all employees as to the personal protective equipment provided in their area.
The steel-toed safety footwear rebate shall be 50%.
Effective October 7,1986, the prescription safety glass lens rebate shall be 100%.
8.12	Medicals
Employeeson5 and2(Mondaythrough Fridayjsteady day shift schedule shall be given paid leave to obtain remedicals required by the Mines Act. Such leaveshall start one hour prior to the examination appointment time but no earlier than two hours prior to the end of the shift. Transportation is the employee's responsibility.
8.13	If the Company does not accept a medical certificate produced by an employee and requires said employee to undergo an examination by a medical practitioner named by the Company, the Company will pay for the cost of this required examination and the employee shall not suffer a loss of pay for such examination.
8.14	An employee who is injured on the job will have his normal earnings maintained for the balance of his scheduled shift on the date of the injury.
8.15	Emergency Rescue Teams
The Company shall maintain four (4) Emergency Rescue Teams, one per shift, comprised of approximately ten (10) members, from across the minesite. The Emergency 24
This time frame may be varied by mutual agreement. During such lunch period, the employee shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of service.
9.07	Employees working on multiple shift jobs must not leave their place of work at the end of the shift before their regular replacement or a qualified replacement as designated has reported for work, unless they have obtained permission from their supervisor to leave the job.
9.08	Employees working on multiple shift jobs will not be permitted to replace employees of the preceding shift more than fifteen (15) minutes before the start of their shift unless permission has been obtained from their supervisor which will not be unreasonably withheld.
9.09	At its discretion, the Company may from time to time initiate, maintain and discontinue to conduct all or any part of its operations on a continuous and/or semi-continuous basis, subject to the pertinent statutes and regulations of the Province of British Columbia. The Union hereby agrees to consider making joint application with the Company to the appropriate Government agency for approval of such schedules where such approval is required.
ARTICLE 10. OVERTIME RATES
10.01	Overtime for work performed as outlined herein
shall be paid at the following rates:
(a)	Work in excess of the normal hours of work as defined in Article 9, will receive payment at one and one half(1-1/2) times the equivalent hourly rate for each overtime hour worked.
(b)	Overtime which is in excess of six (6) hours overtime during an employee’s work period shall be paid at two (2) times tne equivalent hourly rate for each over
26
until the commencement of the following scheduled work day as defined in marginal paragraph 9.03.
10.03	The Company will distribute as impartially as is practical the opportunity for overtime work among those employees capable of doing such work within their respective work groups. The Company will post within each work group a listing of employees in the work group showing the occasions when opportunity for overtime was made available.
The Union Chief Steward and area Steward may meet on request with the Superintendent and area General Foreman to discuss problems related to the distribution of overtime.
10.04	Overtime rates shall be paid for work in ^xcess of eight (8) hours in any one day.
10.05	Overtime rates shall be paid for work performed by an employee on his regularly assigned days of rest.
10.06	Change of Work Schedule
Where the Company changes an employee’s work schedule during a work period and the employee is required to work in excess of his normal work day of his previous schedule or on the rest days of his previous schedule, he shall be paid overtime rates for that time worked. The new schedule will become the employee's regular schedule at the conclusion of the rest days of his previous schedule.
10.07	Where the Company changes an employee’s work shift with the result that the employee has a short change which is not a normal part of a work schedule, the employee shall be paid overtime rates for the hours worked of the second shift which are within the same work day as the first shift.
28
he shall be paid straight time for such work up to eight (8) hours.
(b)	The provision shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regularwork for more than one (l)work day and fails before reporting to work to notify his supervisor of his intention to return to work.
(c)	Any employee who works four (4) hours or more in a work day and is sent home so that he may come to work at a later time in that work day shall receive overtime rates for all work performed at such later time.
10.11 An employee who is employed on continuous operations and who is required to use transportation organized by the Company for transport to his designated working place from a dry, shall depart from the dry at the designated time and remain at work on his job assignment until the next scheduled shift relieves him. Employees working the above schedule will be paid a premium of sixteen dollars ($16)forpach complete work day worked.
In the event that on occasion the relief to relief system requires longer than forty (40) minutes to effect, the Company shall pay applicable overtime rates of pay.
Overtime for this clause only shall be calculated as follows:
(a)	If the period is less than fifteen (15) minutes, a period less than five (5) minutes shall be deemed to be five (5) minutes, a period between five (5)minutes and ten (10) minutes shall be deemed to be ten (10) minutes, a period between ten (lO)minutes and fifteen (15)minutes shall be deemed to be fifteen (15) minutes.
(b)	lftheperiodismorethanfifteen(15)minutesand less than thirty (30) minutes it shall be deemed to be thirty (30) minutes.
30
calendar year and no mutually suitable date has been established before the end of the year he shall receive a day’s pay in lieu thereof. The provisions of marginal paragraph 11.02 following shall apply to an employee’s Floating Statutory Hollday(s) in the same manner as to the other holidays named in this subsection.
In situations involving transfers into or between the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 and U.S.W.A., Local 7884, the total annual Statutory Holidays and Floating Statutory Holidays entitlement for such transferred employees will be no more or less than twelve (12).
11.02	To ensure an employee the opportunity to qualify for pay on all twelve (12) statutory holidays, an employee not working on such holidays (including the employee's Floating Statutory Holidays) shall receive pay subject to the following terms and conditions.
11.03	With theexception of the Floating Statutory Holidays, when a Statutory Holiday falls on a Sunday, the next day (Monday) shall be considered as the holiday. When a Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding day (Friday) shall be considered as the holiday.
Where July 1st falls on a Tuesday or Wednesday, the preceding Monday shall be considered as the holiday. Where it falls on a Thursday, the next day (Friday) shall be considered as the holiday.
For those employees on shifts other than 5&2, Statutory Holidays shall be observed on the day on which they fall, unless the parties mutually agree to substitute another day.
11.04	Subject to marginal paragraph 11.05 of this Agreement, to qualify for pay on a holiday, the employee shall work his last scheduled shift before the holiday and his first scheduled shift after the holiday.
An employee in receipt of benefits under the wage replacement plans of Weekly Indemnity and Workers 32
work as required by the Company on a holiday, he shall receive no pay under marginal paragraph 11.02, unless he works only a part of his assigned shift thereon, when he shall be paid for the hours worked at two and one-half (2-1/2) times the base rate as provided in marginal paragraph 11.01, and for the remaining hours of the shift not worked he shall be paid at straight time.
11.07	When any such holiday falls during an employee’s vacation with pay, taken under Articles 17 and 18, and he would have become entitled to pay for such holiday not worked had he not been on vacation, he shall be paid for such holiday. If any such holiday falls during an employee's vacation with pay, he may extend his vacation for one day if he arranges to do so with the Company prior to taking his vacation.
ARTICLE 12. WAGES
12.01	The Co-operative Wage Study (C.W.S.) Manual for Job Description, Classification and Wage Administration, dated May 1,1981, (herein referred to as "the Manual") is incorporated into this Agreement as Appendix “A” and its provisions shall apply as if set forth in full herein.
12.02	Each employee’s job shall be described and classified and a rate of pay applied to such employee in accordance with the provisions in the Agreement.
12.03	Standard Hourly Wage Scale
The Standard Hourly Wage Scale set forth in Schedule “A” and any increases thereto, shall become effective on the dates specified in Schedule “A”.
The rates for each job class shall be the standard hourly rate for all jobs classified within suchjob class and shall be applied to any employee in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
34
12.06	Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, the established rate of pay for a trade or apprentice job shall apply to any employee during the time such employee is assigned to the respective rate classification in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
12.07	Out-of-line Differentials
The Company shall furnish to the Union a list agreed to by the the Company and the Union of employees who are to be paid “out-of-line differentials”. Such list shall contain the following information:
(a)	Name of incumbent to whom such “out-of-line differential” is to be paid.
(b)	Job title of job on which out-of-line differential is to be paid.
(c)	Job classification of such job.
(d)	Standard hourly rate of such job.
(e)	Amount of out-of-line differential.
(f)	Date such out-of-line differential became effective.
12.08	Except as such out-of-line differential may be changed by the means hereinafter provided, any employee included in the list referred to in marginal paragraph 12.07 shall continue to be paid such out-of-line differential during such time as the employee continues to occupy the job for which the differential was established.
12.09	If an employee with an out-of-line differential is transferred or assigned to a job having a higher Standard hourly rate, then the differential shall be reduced by the amount of the increase in the standard hourly rate.
12.10	If, as a result of layoff and the exercise of seniority rights, an employee with an out-of-line differential is moved to a job having a lower standard hourly rate, then the out-of-line differential shall be cancelled.
36
ment. Where the supervisory position is not included in a bargaining unit, the wage ratewill bedetermined by the Company. An employee shall not remain in an acting supervisory position for a period exceeding one hundred (100) working days in the aggregate in a calendar year except by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
12.16	Trainee Rates
Trainee jobs requiring "Trainee" rates, shall be as set forth in Article 15 of this Agreement.
12.17	Incentives
Should the Company desire to install incentives to cover any jobs, the following shall govern:
(a)	The standard hourly rates for the respective jobs shall be the base rates and minimum hourly guaranteed rates for such incentives; and
(b)	The Company shall first discuss with and explain to the Union the development of any incentive plan and reach mutual agreement with the Union regarding such incentive plan before such incentive plan is installed.
12.18	General
Any mathematical or clerical errors made in the preparation, establishment or application of job descriptions, classifications or standard hourly rates shall be corrected to conform to the provisions of this Agreement.
12.19	Except as otherwise provided, no basis shall exist for an employee covered by this Agreement to allege that a wage rate inequity exists.
12.20	Time Off ForC.W.S. Committee
There shall be a committee known as the “C.W.S. Committee", consisting of three (3) employees appointed by the Union to represent the Union and three (3) persons 38
cription(s), classification(s) or assignment of personnel through the procedure provided in Article IV of the Manual, such matter(s) shall be processed in accordance with Articles 6.02(c) (3) and 6.02(c) (4) of the Manual if necessary, and resolution of such matter(s) shall be made before the Standard Hourly Wage Scale and all other sections dealing with its application shall be made operative.
12.22	Conversion to Standard Hourly Wage Scale Rates
The term " incumbent”, as used herein, shall mean an employee regularly assigned to a job at the date the Standard Hourly Wage Scale is made operative.
12.23	Conversion from the existing rates specified in Schedule "A” to the rates established in the Standard Hourly Wage Scale shall be accomplished as follows:
(a)	For jobs where existing rates are lower than the appropriate standard hourly rates, the existing rates shall be cancelled and replaced by the appropriate higher standard hourly rates.
(b)	For jobs where existing rates are higher than the appropriate standard hourly rates, the existing rates shall be cancelled and replaced by the appropriate lower standard hourly rates. For each incumbent on such job, however, there shall be established an individual out-of-line differential as defined in the Manual.
(C) Retroactive payments, where due, shall be calculated and paid to employees as soon as practicable after the Standard Hourly Wage Scale is made operative.
12.24	Company Orientation
After being accepted by the Company as a new employee such employee shall receive up to a maximum of four (4) hours pay for the time spent attending Company orientation programs including safety induction.
40
(c)	where an employee normally scheduled to be on shift to cover a given skill is absent with no qualified replacement available.
13.05	Emergency Rescue Team Premiums
Active, regularly practicing members of the Emergency Rescue Teams shall be paid the sum .of forty-five dollars ($45.00) per month, and the Shift Emergency Rescue Team Captains shall be paid the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per month. The time spent in practice by such members shall be considered as time worked.
13.06	Lead Hand
Under the direction of a supervisor, a lead hand acts as a leader of a group or groups of employees working on similar or related work. He assigns work to the men as directed by the supervisor and works along with andior co-ordinates work among them. The lead hand functions as a work leader and not as a supervisor. He is responsible for the correct completion of work but not for disciplinary action or other personnel matters which are the responsibility of the supervisor to whom the lead hand reports.
A lead hand is an occasional function and not a full time job.
13.07	An employee when designated as a lead hand shall be paid the rate equivalent to two Job Classes above his standard rate, except in the case where he is acting as lead hand over employees in a classification higher than his, in which case he shall be paid the rate equivalent to two Job Classes above the highest rate of the employees being led.
13.08	Trainer Classification
It is the normal function of an employee to train new employees on his job. This function will be included in the employee’s Job Description and evaluation. If an em-
42
employed on a trial basis and are subject to dismissal for a lesser cause. Union activity shall not be considered as a reason for discharge under this Section. This clause shall not apply to an employee who is rehired within ninety (90) days of severance.
14.03	An employee shall not be deemed to have any Company seniority or Fording River Operations seniority until he has been employed for thirty (30) days after he was last hired by the Company.The provisions of this section are subject to marginal paragraph14.02 of this Article.
14.04	A person originally hired by the Company to exercise a special trade or skill, or to participate in a special assignment of work, may be discharged when his employment at such special trade, skill, or assignment comes to an end, notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary. The Company shall notify the Union of such employees and their status.
14.05	Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement contained, the Company shall have the right from time to time to select persons who are to be given special experience or training in preparing them or trying out their capabilities for other or broader assignments with the Company or for future service other than with the Company, to a number not to exceed twenty (20)employees, and to promote, demote, engage, retain or dispense with their services, and direct their efforts from time to time, free from any limitations provided for in this Article; provided, however, that no such person shall be assigned to take over the job occupied at the time by an employee outranking such person for promotion purposes, if such assignment would result in the demotion of such employee.
I
14.06	Students employed during the regular holiday period of the educational institution to which they have been admitted or are attending shall be deemed to be temporary employees but the duration of this temporary employment shall not exceed six (6) months. During this period
44
to his own Company and Fording River Operations seniority. The President or Secretary of the Union will be supplied monthly with the necessary information relative to Company and Fording River Operations seniority and base rate of any employee or group of employees. In the case of equal seniority, seniority rank shall be determined by the earliest date of hire at Fording Operations, or, in the event these are equal, in order of the earliest employee number. The Company must provide for a posting of seniority lists every month and must provide a copy to the Union. The listings will be numbered in order of Fording River Operations seniority and will include, name, employee number, Company seniority, Fording River Operations seniority, and last date entered service. The seniority will be shown in years, months, days, projected to a future date indicated with the title.
Any employee has the right to review his work record and his disciplinary record, on request, through his Foreman.
14.09	The Company is not required to consider Company or Fording RiverOperations seniority in the case of non-permanent transfers or promotions not in excess of thirty (30) days, nor in the case of non-permanent demotions, not in excess of seven (7) days but all such periods of time may be extended by mutual ageemqnt between the Company and the Union. It is understood that this clause applies in cases of promotions, transfers, and demotions which are purely temporary in nature, such as those due to vacations, sick leave, training, and other reasons where such promotions, transfers and demotions are beyond the practical application of marginal paragraph 14.15. Notwithstanding anything in this Article, an employee occupying a job on a temporary basis shall, when his occupancy of the temporary job ends, return to his previousjob or equivalent. An employee occupying ajob on a temporary basis will not be disqualified from either the job posting or job progression procedures as a result of said temporary placement.
46
(a)	Claim a job which he has previously held at Fording River Operations, provided he has the skills and ability to perform the normal requirements of the job and provided he does not bump a more senior employee from the job being claimed.
(b)	An employee who is unable to use his Company Seniority to claim a job under (a) above, or elects not to, may then use his Company seniority, skills and ability to claim one of the jobs from the following list, provided he does not bump a more senior employee from the job being claimed.
Mine Production	Shops Maintenance
Dispatcher	Dispatcher
Haulage Driver 120	Boom Truck Operator
Mine Services
Boom Truck Operator
Pumpman
Employees claiming jobs from this list shall be paid the trainee rate of pay until such'time as the trainee period is completed, after which the regular rate of pay will apply.
(c)	An employee who is unable to use his Company seniority to claim a job under (a) or (b) above, or elects not to, may then use his Company seniority, skills and ability to claim one of the jobs from the following list, provided he does not bump a more senior employee from the job being claimed:
Mine Production	Processing
Pit Utility	Delivery Truck Operator
Dragline Oiler	Tool Crib Attendant
Mail Person Utllityman Labourer
48
(7) An employee who has claimed a job in category (b) in paragraph (3) above but is unatole to perform the normal requirements of the job during the training period, shall be removed from that job. The employee will then have one (1) opportunity to claim a job in category (c) in paragraph (3) above. Where the Company is able to establish that the employee is unable to perform the required work during the training and orientation period for the job being claimed in category (c), that employee shall be laid off.
14.11	In the event of a permanent or indefinite layoff, the Union Local President, Vice-president, Recording Secretary, Financial Secretary,Treasurer, Shop Stewards and Safety Representatives shall be the last employees to be laid off, provided they have completed their probationary period and can perform the normal requirements of the job. This clause shall apply only to those union officers listed above who are registered with the Union as holding such office at the time the layoff announcement is made.
14.12	Recall
(a)	Laid off employees, and employees who have been removed from their former jobs to retain employment through bumping,will be placed on a single recall list with their names and formerjobs entered. Employees on recall will be recalled to jobs or reinstated to their former jobs as closely as possible in the inverse order of layoff and will be recalled in accordance with the criteria established in Article 14.10(1). Employees must return to their former jobs except by mutual agreement with the Company and the Union.
(b)	It is the responsibility of a laid off employee to notify the Company of any change in his postal address. Laid off employees who have complied with the foregoing procedure shall be notified by the Company, either personally or by registered mail at their last
50
14.16	If an employee accepts a promotion to a permanent position outside the unit represented by the Union, such person may return to his former position in the Unit provided the return takes place within ninety-one (91) days of the promotion.
14.17	Temporary or Emergency Layoff/Shutdown
(a)	In the event that the operation or part of the operation is shut down for a temporary period of time not exceeding forty (40) calendar days, employees will be laid off in the inverse order of their Fording River Operations seniority within their department on their shift in their work area, provided they can satisfactorily perform the required work without training or retraining.
Employees who have their vacation scheduled by the Company during this period will not be considered as having been laid off for the period of vacation taken.
With the agreement of the parties, this procedure may be used for temporary or emergency shutdowns which exceed forty (40) calendar days in duration.
(b)	Employees who are temporarily laid off will be recalled as closely as possible in the inverse order in which they were laid off and continue to accrue seniority and shall retain all benefits including statutory holidays during the time of the temporary layoff.
(c)	An employee who works during a temporary lay-off/shutdown shall be paid the established rate of pay for the job he performs.
14.18	Displacement
Where the Company decides to reduce the number of employees required in a part of the operation, and the employees being displaced are to be employed in another 52
(3)	Displaced employees who have exercised their bumping rights in accordance with paragraph (2)(b) above, will be given a period of up to ninety-six (96) hours or more, as deemed necessary by the Company:
(a)	for jobs in (2) (b) (I) - retraining and familiarization; and
(b)	for jobs in (2) (b) (li) - training and orientation, during which time the employee must be able to perform the normal requirements of the job.
(4)	Where an employee is transferred, in accordance with (2) (a) above, the following rules shall apply:
(a)	An employee will be transferred to a job commensurate with his Fording River Operations seniority, skills arid ability to perform the normal requirements of the job, provided no employee who is in the job or advancement sequence is displaced from his job classification.
(b)	The employee will have his rate of pay frozen at the rate he was receiving in his former job at the time of displacement and shall receive no increases in pay until such time as the rate of pay of his new job meets or exceeds the rate of pay he was receiving in his former job.
(c)	Rate protection will cease should an employee successfully bid to a job with a lower rate of pay except where by so bidding the employee will achieve through normal advancement a wage rate which is'higher than the rate he would otherwise have achieved through normal advancement @ had he not bid on the vacancy and the newjob shall become the employee’s job classification.
54
OR
-	Limited to employees within a specific advancement sequence and having required qualifications «■
The provisions of marginal paragraph 14.15 shall apply
in the above. A job vacancy must exist.
<b) NORMAL ADVANCEMENT
-	Based on time within a normal advancement sequence @) and the employee successfully passing required tests.
OR
-	Based on a job vacancy existing with employees advancing from within the specific advancement sequence
The provisions of marginal paragraph 14.15 shall apply.
15.03	Job Posting Procedure
(a)	Job classifications which the Company seeks to fill through the bid procedure will be posted for a period of seven (7)calendar days, during which time bids will be accepted by Personnel. If an applicant is selected, he will be advised within five (5) calendar days from the date of closing of the posting and will be re-assigned to the new job within thirty (30) calendar days of his selection.
(b)	Selection from those employees applying on job postings will be made by the Company in accordance with marginal paragraph 14.15. The Company does not have to consider applications by employees who have refused ajob posting within the previous three (3) months. If accepted for a job an employee shall be paid the rate for the job for which he has been accepted.
56
(b) He has not accepted an interdepartmental classification which has been posted within the previous one year.
If the employee refuses the posting the second most eligible applicant on that posting will be awarded the position.
The job classification he holds must be at a level equal to or higher than the classification for which he applies. If he hasone (1)yearof seniority ormore he may bid on any entry job classification.
List of Entry Classifications:
(a)	Mine Production
Haulage Driver Trainee	10
Rotary Driller Trainee	12
Blaster Trainee	10
Pumpman Trainee	8
Tireman I	9
(b)	Processing
Mailperson	2
Oiler 1	6
Analyst 1	7
Process Op. 1	9
Delivery Truck	8
Tool Crib	4
(c)	Maintenance
Serviceman Electrical 1	9
Serviceman 1, H.E./L.E.	'9
Service Operator 1	9
Tool Crib	4
Dispatcher Trainee	10
(d)	Engineering
Environmental Maintenance Man	16
58
Service Operator 1
Steam CleaneriTruck Operator
Link Belt Operator
9
10
18
(d)	Engineering
Environmental Maintenance Man
16
Selection from those applying will be made by the Company in accordance with marginal paragraph 14.15.
(a)	Employees desiring transfers to other departments into a job that is not posted, i.e. Labourer, Pit Utility, Dryman, Janitor/ess are required to complete a Job Transfer Request. This form may be obtained from the employee's supervisor and will be forwarded to and retained by Personnel for a period of up to one year. Each Job Transfer Request will be considered as related job vacancies occur.
(b)	An employee who is transferred at the Company’s request shall retain the rate of his previous job unless the transfer is a promotion.
(a)	Employees desiring a change in shift or work group assignment shall make the same known to his supervisor by filling out duplicate transfer request forms. As vacancies occur, such changes in shift or work group assignments shall be awarded on the basis of seniority, skills and ability, provided that it does not interfere with the efficiency of the Operation.
(b)	Where the Company initiates changes in shift or work group assignments, consideration shall be given to seniority, provided the needs of the Operation are met.
15.07
15.08
60
(li) bid to another job according to the provisions of this article.
15.11	The normal practice is to start new employees in the entry level jobs, however, when there are not sufficient employees with skills suitable for job vacancies, skilled people may be hired from outside the Company to fill specific jobs, after consultation with the Union.
15.12	Employees without prior heavy equipment experience who are awarded job postings in Mine Operating at the interdepartmental job entry level of haulage driver trainee will be required to work on pit utility duties for a period of up to thirty (30) working days to become familiar with mine operations. This time will be dependent on the employee's adjustment to the mining environment, conditions and regulations.
During this period, the employee shall be paid at the standard rate for the haulage driver trainee job for which he has been accepted.
15.13	Job Advancement
Advancement is accomplished through a series of trainee periods to enable an employee to become proficient in higher level jobs. Upon completion of the trainee period, the qualified employee will advance in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
In addition to eligible employees there are also those eligible through departmental or interdepartmental posting if applicable.
Mine Production Job Advancement:
Job Title Tireman I Tireman II Tireman III Tireman
Job Trainee Grp Periods
Employees Pit Utility Tireman I Tireman II Tireman III
Eligible
9	1-520	hr.
11 1-520 hr. 13 1-520 hr. 15
62
Maintenance Job Advancement
	Job	Trainee	Eligible
Job Title	Grp	Periods	Employees
Tool Crib Att.	4		Labourer
Steam Bay Att.	6		Labourer
Serviceman Elec. 1	9	1-520 hr.	Labourer
Serviceman Elec. II	11	1-520 hr.	Srvmn. Elec. I
Serviceman Elec.	13		Srvmn. Elec. II
Serviceman 1, HE/LE	9	1-520 hr.	Labourer
Serviceman II, HE/LE	11	1-520 hr.	Srvmn. I, HE/LE
Serviceman, HE/LE	13		Srvmn. II, HE/LE
Steam Cleaner/Tr.Op.	10		Labourer
Dispatcher Tr.	10	1-520 hr.	Labourer
Dispatcher	12		DispatcherTr.
Boom Truck Op.Tr.	8	1-520 hr.	Labourer
Boom Truck Op.	10		Boom Trk. Op.Tr.
Service Op. 1	9	1-520 hr.	Labourer
Service Op. II	11	1-520 hr.	Service Op. I
Service Op. Ill	13	1-1040 hr.	Service Op. II
Service Op. IV	15	1-1040 hr.	Service Op. Ill
Sr. Serv. Op.	17	1-1040 hr.	Service Op. IV
Link Belt Op.	18		Sr. Serv. Op.
Process Plant Job Advancement			
	Job	Trainee	Eligible
Job Title	Grp	Periods	Employees
Mailperson	2		Labourer
Utilityman	a		Labourer
Process Op.l	9	1-1040 hr.	Labourer
Process Op.ll	11	1-1040 hr.	Process Op.l
Process Op.Ill	13	1-1040 hr.	Process Op.ll
Process Op.IV	16	1-1040 hr.	Process Op.lll
Sr. Process Op.	18		Process Op.IV
Control Room Op.	21		Sr Process Op.
64
Engineering Job Advancement
Job Trainee Job Title	Grp Periods
Environmental	16
Mtce. Man
Eligible
Employees
Labourer
66

£	Op |
A	J~ EcmlpniM OB t* j v
£ **"»**• "|
i..
ft	*r
1“
+
| iimw J
IJ~;J
^l «tf H«
FMCfUlMO
ua Nut • *M«aUMl«)r 1 Mentha
ARTICLE 16.
TRAINING AND APPRENTICESHIPS
16.01	The Company and the Union recognize the importance of assisting employees to improve their knowledge and skills so that each employee may realize advancement in responsibility and pay.
To further this goal the Company and the Union shall establish a Joint Education and Development Committee. The Committee shall consist of four trades/operator members appointed by the Union and four members appointed by the Company. The Union members shall be one employee from Mine Production, one employeefrom Maintenance, and one employeefrom Processing with a fourth employee being from the property at large. The Company will also appoint one member from each of the areas of Mine Production, Maintenance'and Processing and one member from the property at large.
16.02	The responsibilities of the Joint Committee will be to:
(a)	Review and make recommendations pertaining to training procedures and guidelines used in job training and advancement programs.
(b)	Review and make recommendations regarding oral, written and practical examination procedures and contents.
(C) Meet at least every two months to discuss problem areas including matters related to job posting provisions of the Collective Agreement.
For time spent attending scheduled meetings of the Joint Education and Development Committee, employees will receive their normal straight-time base rate plus premiums as provided for in marginal paragraphs 13.01 and
13.02	if applicable. Under no condition shall overtime rates be paid.
72
be classified as necessary tools for the purpose of rebates. All rebates shall be subject to the approval of the Superintendent or his designate.
The Trade Tools, Texts and Manuals rebate will be 50% of the actual cost.
ARTICLE 17. VACATIONS WITH PAY
17,01	An employee who has been in the service of the Company less lhan one year prior to the first day of January in any year shall be entitled to a vacation with pay as designated in marginal paragraph 17.03, as follows:
(a)	If hired between January 1st and June 30th inclusive of the previous year, two (2) weeks vacation with pay.
(b)	If hired between July 1st and December31st inclusive of the previous year, one (1) week vacation with pay.
17.02
Complete Yrs/	Days Of	
Service As Of	Vacation	
The First Day In	With Pay	
January Of Any Yr.	Entitlement	Plateau Yrs.
1	12	
2	15	3 weeks
3	15	
4	16	
5	17	
6	18	
7	19	
8	20	4 weeks
0	20	
10	21	
11	21	
12	22	
13	22	
74
the employee is paid under this Article, or time lost because of sickness or accident to a maximum of twelve (12) consecutive calendar months from the commencement of such absence due to sickness or accident shall be considered as time worked and absence due to time away on special vacation will not affect the employee's regular vacation.
17.05	Vacation Scheduling
Vacation lists will be posted as soon as possible but no later than January 15th of each year. Employees may then indicate their preference in vacation dates to supervision. After March 1st of each year, supervision will schedule vacations in accordance with Fording River Operations seniority for those employees who have indicated their preference. Employees who did not indicate their preference will have their vacation periods scheduled by the Company.
Nothing in this Article shall affect the right of the Company to schedule or reschedule all or any vacations if deemed necessary for operational requirements.
Upon receipt of proof of loss the Company shall reimburse an employee for reservation deposits lost as a result of his vacation being rescheduled by the Company, provided the employee has made arrangements through his supervisor to have the vacation time off and makes the supervisor aware in writing at the time the vacation is rescheduled of the deposits the employee will lose as a result of the rescheduling.
17.06	Vacation Adjustment
A vacation adjustment schedule, in addition to the vacation entitlements listed ajjove, is as follows:
In those years that an employee first achieves the vacation plateaus of each of three (3), four (4), five (5) and six (6) weeks of vacation with pay, such employee shall be
76
17.09	An employee who is unable to take his annual vacation before December 31st because of sickness, accident or long term disability may elect to:
(1)	take vacation pay in lieu of receiving insurance payments for the period of such vacation.
(2)	postpone such vacation provided that such vacation can be rescheduled in accordance with marginal paragraph 17.05 within the succeeding twelve (12) month period.
(3)	take a payout of vacation pay after returning to work.
ARTICLE 18. SPECIAL VACATION
18.01	Effective January 1,1979, employees who did not previously qualify for Special Vacation, with five (5)years or more of service will be entitled to a Special Vacation of three (3) weeks in addition to their normal vacation entitlement to be taken within the five (5) year period ending December 31,1983. During each subsequent five (5) year qualifying period these employees shall become eligible for a further three (3) weeks of Special Vacation.
Employees who completed their five (5) years of service after January 1,1979, shall be eligible for this progam during the five (5) year period commencing with the January 1st following the year in which they complete five (5) years service and during each subsequent five (5) year qualifying period they shall become eligible for a further three (3) weeks of Special Vacation.
Employees who had attained fifteen (15) years service prior to January 1,1978, will continue to earn a Special Vacation of three (3) weeks in each five (5) year qualifying period commencing with the January 1st of the year in which they first qualified for Special Vacation.
18.02	Special Vacations shall be governed by the following conditions:
78
ing period; should his employment determinated by his death, such sum shall be paid to his estate.
(g)	Absence by an employee during a five (5) year qualifying period due to sickness or accident up to a total of twelve (12) months shall not affect his Special Vacation benefits. That portion of absence due to sickness or accident which is in excess of twelve (12) months shall result in a pro rata reduction in Special Vacation pay. Time spent on vacation for which the employee is paid under Article 17 shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of this subsection, but absences for any other reasons during a qualifying period shall result in a pro rata reduction in Special Vacation pay. The time allowed for Special Vacations shall not be reduced.
ARTICLE 19. BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
19.01	On request by an employee, Bereavement Leave with pay for scheduled time lost shall be granted in the event of death in the employee’s immediate family in accordance with the following conditions:
(a)	One shift, due to the death, and up to an additional three (3) consecutive shifts to attend the funeral of a spouse, child, father or mother.
OR
(b)	Up to three (3) consecutive shifts to attend the funeral of a mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister or grandparent.
The definition of dependent spouse will be a person of the opposite sex who has lived with the employee for two (2) or more years where there is a bar to their marriage or at least one (1)year where there is no such bar and the employee and that person have publicly declared themselves as man and wife and have so advised the Company in writing.
80
furnish the Company with the certificate of a legally qualified medical practitionerstating she is pregnant, and the estimated date of delivery.
21.03	An employee who intends to resume employment after maternity leave shall endeavour to give as much notice as possible, but in no case less than one week's notice to her crew supervisor. She must furnish the Company with the certificate of a legally qualified medical practitioner stating she is able to resume full time work. On her return to work the Company shall reinstate the employee to her previous position, or should her former position be redundant, provide her with alternate work at not less than her job group at the time her leave of absence began.
21.04	The period of such leave shall be considered as Company service for seniority and pension purposes and vacation entitlement (but not vacation pay) only.
21.05	The Company will continue to provide medical, extended health, dental and optical plan and group insurance benefits during the period of leave and the Company shall continue to make payment to the plan in the same manner as if the employee were not absent where:"*
(a)	The Company pays the total cost of the plan, or
(b)	The employee elects to continue to pay her share of the cost of a plan that is paid for jointly by the Company and the employee.
Basic Sick Leave benefits will not be available during the leave.
ARTICLE 22. BENEFITS
22.01	The following subsidies with respect to the medical, sickness, accident, group insurance plans, dental plan and optical plan shall be provided during the term of this Agreement.
a2
people who are unable to work due to illness or accident as defined by the insurance carrier. The benefit will be:
for up to 90 weeks from the expiry of the Sickness and Accident Weekly Indemnity program or age sixty-five (65) whichever occurs first. Any disability payments that may come from Government plans in respect of such disability will be deductible from benefits payable under this plan.
22.05	Group Life Insurance Basic Coverage
The group insurance plan will be carried by a commercial insurer. From the date of hire through to age sixty-five (65) an employee will have insurance coverage equal to his previous year’s base annual income from employ ment with Fording Coal Limited to be known as his “basic insurance”. Effective October 7,1986 basic coverage shall be increased to one and one-half times (1.5 x) his previous year’s annual income from employment with Fording Coal Limited. In the event the employee retires before the age of sixty-five (65), his insurance coverage shall remain constant from the time he retires until he reaches the age of sixty-five (65). When the employee reaches the age of sixty-five (65) his insurance coverage will be reduced to two thousand and five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). The coverage will be further reduced by an amount of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per year to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) at age seventy (70), which amount will remain constant. The entire cost of the premiums for the aforementioned insurance shall be paid by the Company. Revisions to the coverage will be made annually following totalling of annual earnings, including monies earned by the employee while on Union business
84
Effective Oct. 7, 1986 Effective May 1, 1987 Effective May 1, 1988
$800 per month $825 per month $850 per month
22.07	Optical Plan
The Company shall maintain a Vision Care Plan on a cost sharing basis of 40% paid by the employee and 60% paid by the Company. The Plan will provide employees and their dependents with 80% of the cost after the employee has satisfied an annual deductible of $25.00 of medical expenses under the Extended Health Plan of M.S.A. The maximum benefit paid in any two year period will be $60.00.
22.08	Premium Rebates
The employee’s portion of the reduced Unemployment Insurance Commission premiums resulting from registration of the Sickness and Accident Benefit Plans will continue to be directed toward employee benefit plans.
ARTICLE 23. PENSION PLAN
23.01	The Fording-Union Pension Plan, 1979 Agreement, dated November?, 1979 and effective May 1,1979, shall
be deemed to form part of this Agreement. For administrative purposes, the Plan is printed in a separate booklet.
23.02	The definition of “Dependent Spouse” in the Fording-Union Pension Plan will include a person of the opposite sex who has lived with the pensionerfortwo (2) or more years where there is a bar to their marriage or at least one year where there is no such bar and the pensioner and that person have publicly declared themselves as man and wife and have so advised the Company in writing.
23.03	The Company ‘shall improve the Fording-Union Pension Plan to provide all future pensioners with:
(a)	A past service benefit monthly amount equal to: Oct. 7, 1986- $18.00; May 1, 1987 - $20.00; May 1, 1988 -$22.00; multiplied by years of past service.
86
advised of accommodation and board prior to assignment.
(e)	Transportation will be supplied by the Company. If an employee elects to use his personal car for transportation, he will be reimbursed at the rate per kilometre which prevails in the Company regulations at the time the assignment is carried out. Such reimbursement will be made for the initial trip and the trip home at the conclusion of the loan assignment.
(f)	Travel time paid in any one day will be limited to eight (8) hours. It is agreed that employees who travel on their rest days will be paid at the applicable overtime rate.
(g)	A loan assignment will be a maximum of five (5) weeks. If an employee elects to remain on loan for a periodin excess of five (5) weeks, he will be provided with transportation home after every five (5) weeks on loan.
(h)	A day off with pay shall be granted for each regular work week on loan, and such accumulated leave may be taken before returning to work after conclusion of a loan assignment. If the leave is not taken at the end of the loan assignment, it shall be taken at the convenience of the operations.
(i)	An allowance of fifty dollars ($50.00) per week will be paid to employees on loan for each week on loan. Loan assignments of less than one (1) week will be prorated.
(j)	The Company will advise the Union in writing of employees accepting loan assignments.
ARTICLE 25. CONTRACTING OUT
25.01
(a)	The Company recognizes the Union’s concern over the Company employing contractors to work as part 88
25.04	It is understood that if work that is considered normal bargaining unit work at Fording Operations is done by contractors or other persons who are not employees of the Company, the Company will ensure that the intent of the Safety and Health and Contracting Out Articles of this Agreement are applied by such contractors or other persons. Construction work performed by contractors or other persons who are not employees of the Company shall not be affected by this Agreement.
The Company shall ensure that such Contractors and other persons are made aware and conform to the normal operating and safety procedures of Fording Operations and the Mines Act and participate as necessary in pertinent portions of the Company's safety induction program.
ARTICLE 28. TRADE DESCRIPTIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR SETTLING DISPUTES
26.01	Intent
The Company and the Union agree to establish a procedure to ensure that disagreements over which trades should perform trades work will be settled in an equitable manner without stoppage of work. This procedure will recognize that some trades work is common to more than one trade.
26.02	Descriptions
To assist in settling disagreements the Company and the Union agree that the following trades descriptions developed by the Trades Committee shall apply to the Company's operation: Carpenter, Heavy Duty Mechanic, Industrial Electrician, Industrial instrument Mechanic, Lineman, Machinist, Millwright, Painter, Steamfitter-Pipefitter, Steel Fabricator, Welder, Automotive Mechanic, Sheetmetal (Tinsmith), Certified Industrial Warehouseman and Auto Body Repairman.
90
pany appointees will be designated co-chairmen. The committee will have the following duties:
(a)	To prepare or be responsible for preparing trade descriptions.
(b)	To amend descriptions, to correct omissions and matters related to advancing technology, new materials, and new or revised methods.
(c)	To recommend solutions to disagreements referred to in marginal paragraph 26.04 (c) below.
The Company will reimburse employees who may lose time from their normal work as a result of acting as Union representatives on the committee at straight time rates to a maximum of eight (8) hours in a day. This paragraph will also apply to time spent off the property to attend meetings called by the Company and do committee work as authorized by the Company Co-chairman. Requests for off property trades work will not be unreasonably withheld.
26.04	Disagreements
Disagreements arising under this procedure will be settled in the following manner:
(a)	Thetradesman(men) involved, with orwithout a Shop Steward, will attempt to solve the disagreement with his immediate supervisor.
(b)	Failing satisfactory settlement within four (4) hours after the disagreement has been brought to the attention of the immediate supervisor, the disagreement will be submitted to the senior trades supervisor(s) at the operation.
(c)	Failing satisfactory settlement within twenty-four (24)* hours by the senior trades supervisor(s), the disagreement will be submitted immediately to the Trades Committee.
92
machinery or equipment, or the mechanization or automation of duties which causes the displacement of an employee(s) or has a detrimental effect on the employee's wage rate.
27.03	Prior Notice
The Company shall provide the Union, in writing, ninety (90) days prior notice of the implementation of any technological change.
27.04	Company-Union Meetings
On request by either party, the Industrial Relations Department and Union President, or his designate, will meet for the purpose of discussing the effects of any technological change. Further meetings will be held, as far in advance as practical of the time the technological change is to take place, for the purpose of implementing the specific application of this Article. At all meetings, meaningful discussions shall be held to resolve issues arising from the effects or implementation of technological change.
27.05	Maintenance of Rate Benefit
In the event that technological changes are instituted at any time in this operation which results in the demotion of any employee, the employee will be entitled to have his basic hourly rate maintained at the job classification he was receiving at the time of his displacement. The duration of the benefit period to be one (1) month for every year of service with the Company with a maximum benefit period of two (2) years. It is understood that this shall not apply in the case of demotions for other reasons including reduction of crews for reasons other than technological change.
27.06	Training Benefit
The Company—will provide an employee with training or retraining on the job which will provide as closely as 94
ARTICLE 28. LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
28.01 The following Letters of Understanding are in effect during the course of the 1985-89 Collective Agreement:
Subject Index
1.	Tenancy of Discharged Employees
2.	Welding Upgrading
3.	Counselling Interviews
4.	Use of Contractors and Dobie Dues
5.	Maintenance Supervisor,
Process Instrumentation
6.	Schedule “A", Cost of Living Allowance
7.	Coding of Time Spent on Union Business
8.	Senior Loader Operator Advancement
9.	Joint Training
10.	Labour-Management Relations Committee
11.	Crew Safety Meeting Facility
12.	Fast Track Arbitration
13.	C.W.S. Agreement dated March 16, 1986
96
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - No. 2 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7884
WELDING UPGRADING
The Provincial Government has now established an Apprenticeship Training Program and a Vocational/lndustrlal Training Program for upgrading Welders who hold various welding tickets.
Therefore all Welders without Journeyman Certification who were hired before June 1,1982 and who have reached Journeyman status through the Fording Coal Welding Program and elect to return to school in order to attain the
B.C. Government Welding Trade Certification will be paid their regular pay less Canada Manpower Allowance. These employees will be grandfathered at their current rate of pay.
All Welders hired before June 1,1982 and who were not Indentured Apprentices may progress through the B.C. Government “A-B-C Welder Training and Registration Program” and will be rate protected at their current rate of pay. As encouragement, Fording Coal Limited will pay straight time pay less Canada Manpower Allowance to those employees attending this program.
This is a voluntary program and employees intending to participate are advised to contact the Apprenticeship Officer at Fording Coal Limited.
Should an employee in paragraphs two or three fail to pass a training session, the Company shall not be required to pay the employee in his second attempt.
Note: As of 'June 1, 1982 all new hires will either be:
98
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - No. 3 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7884
SUBJECT: Counselling Interviews
The Company uses a counselling procedure regarding improvements or lapses in employee work performance and recognition of meritorious work performance. Generally, the supervisor involved prepares a Counselling Interview Report (C.I.R.) after such counselling sessions. A counselling session is a matter between the supervisor and the individual employee.
One purpose of counselling is to identify and correct lapses in work performance so that formal disciplinary action will not be necessary. Without such a procedure, it is likely that there would be far more discipline given out for what could be easily correctible work performance situations.
In all cases where a C.j.R. is prepared for filing, the employee will be advised and given the opportunity to read, discuss, and sign (as acknowledgement of having read) the C.I.R. with his supervisor. Each employee will be given a copy of the Counselling Interview Report if requested.
The counselling procedure is a positive step in establishing and maintaining good relationships between employees and supervision.
The parties agree to meet to discuss any concerns re: the application of this procedure.
100
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING. No. 4 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7884
The Union recognizes the Company’s right to employ contractors to perform routine maintenance and routine production work at its operations.
The Company recognizes the Union’s right to represent employees normally engaged in routine maintenance and routine production work at its operations and its concern over the use of contractors.
The Company will, therefore, agree to pay dues to the Union on behalf of contractors engaged in routine maintenance and routine production work. The formula for dues calculations shall be as follows: all contractors’ hours worked on the property in any given month divided by 174, multiplied by two (2) hours pay at Wage Grade 21 of this Collective Agreement. The Company shall pay these dues monthly.
This Agreement shall remain in force during the term of the current Collective Agreement.
Dated this 30th day of July, 1986, at Elkford, B.C.
FORDING COAL LIMITED U.S.W.A., LOCAL 7884
(P. D. Johnston)	(R. J. Schultz)
(T. G. Davies)
(K. Neumann)
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - No. 6 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7884
The parties agree that for the period of the'Collective Agreement (May 1,1985-April 30,1989), the following Articles are suspended and will have no meaning:
1)	Schedule “A” - Cost of Living Allowance.
Dated at Elkford, B.C. this 8th day of October, 1986.
FORDING COAL LIMITED	O.S.W.A., LOCAL 7884
(D. L. Gaspe)	(R. Hunter)
(P. D. Johnston)	(K. Neumann)
(T. G. Davies)
104
4.	Wage Committee activities.
5.	Joint Committee work as provided for in Letters of Understanding.
6.	Quarterly Safety Meetings with the General Manager.
7.	Joint Accident Investigation meetings resulting from a fatality and involving a Company designated Safety Officer and management representatives.
a.	Familiarization of Safety Officials with techniques for identifying toxic substances.
9.	Special meetings between Union Officials and the Company as arranged by the Union President.
10.	Time spent by grievors in the Grievance Procedure.
11.	Time spent by the designated Union representative at monthly meetings concerning the use of contractors.
12.	Time spent by a designated Union representative to attend general meetings initiated or authorized by the Company outside the areas identified in Parts A and C.
NOTE:	An employee who is at work on a premium shift, if called away from hiswork to perform a Union function as described under Code B, shall not lose wages.
Code C:	Leave for Union Business as per Marginal Paragraphs 6.01,6.02,6.03 and 7.03 Step 4 (Paid for by the Union)
1.	All matters related to grievance and safety concerns conducted by the Union outside the areas identified in Parts A and B, above. 106
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - No. 8 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7884
Rate Protection, Senior Loader Operator
The parties agree that where a Senior Loader Operator chooses to participate in the Shovel Operator Advance-mentTraining, hewill be provided with rate protection in accordance with Marginal Paragraph 15.10 (c)(1).
Dated this 13th, day of August, 1985, at Elkfqrd, B.C.
FORDING COAL LIMITED U.S.W.A., LOCAL 7884
T. G. Davies, Manager, R. Hunter, President, Employee Relations,	U.S.W.A., Local 7884.
Fording Coal Limited.
108
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING. No. 10 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7884
LABOUR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS COMMITTEE -LOCAL 7884
PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The Company and the Union recognize the mutual benefits of ongoing meetings and open communications between employer and employees. To this end, the parties have agreed to establish a Labour-Management Relations Committee on a trial basis for the term of this Agreement.
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE:
The Committee shall consist of the following:
a)	Up to three (3) appointees from Senior Management Staff;
b)	The President, Vice-president and one employee appointee designated by the Union.
TERMS OF REFERENCE:
The Labour-Management Committee is intendedto be an open forum wherein matters of mutual concern and benefit can be freely and candidly discussed. Standing topics for the agenda in each meeting are Employee-Company relations, work assignment, effective and efficient operations, and general working conditions.
LIMITATION:
a) The parties understand and agree that the Labour-Management Committee is not intendedto serve as a supplement or alternative to the grievance-
110
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING • No. 11 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7884
SUBJECT Crew Safety Meeting Facility
The Company commits to retaining permanent Crew Safety Meeting Buildings in which future Mine Operating Safety Meetings will be held.
Dated this 6th day of May, 1986, at Elkford, B.C. FORDING COAL LIMITED U.S.W.A., LOCAL 7884
(P. D. Johnston)	(R. Hunter)
(T. G. Davies)	(K. Neumann)
(D. A. Stokes)
112
1.	Which disputes shall be heard, and,
2.	An agreed statement of the facts on each dispute.
Note:	Evidence may be called if there is
a dispute on the facts or if there is an issue of credibility.
3.	Agreement on the positions that each party has taken and will take at the expedited arbitration.
Two weeks prior to the scheduled hearings, the above information shall be forwarded to the Arbitrator. In the event that there are no disputes to be heard, the parties may agree to have a training session on an agreed subject, in place of the hearings. Again, a minimum of two weeks' notice to the Arbitrator is required.
The Hearing Process
Generally, the hearing shall follow the arbitration format. Neither party may use legal counsel to present their case.
The parties agree to meet to resolve any further questions with respect to the expedited arbitration procedure.
Sincerely yours,
T. G. Davies, Manager,
Employee Relations, cc: R. H. Noonan K. Neumann M. I. Chertkow
Acknowledged:
R. Hunter, President, U.S.W.A., Local 7884.
114
By mutual agreement, a grievance falling into any of these categories may be placed into the expedited arbitration process.
2.	Either party shall havethe right to withdraw from the expedited arbitration process, and refer a grievance to a regular arbitration hearing, pursuant to marginal paragraphs 7.04 and 7.05 of Local 7884.
3.	The parties mutually agree that Mr. M. I.Chertkow, or a substitute as mutually agreed upon, shall be appointed to hear and resolve grievances with this process.
4.	The arbitrator shall hearthe grievances, and shall render a decision within five working days of such hearings. A brief, written reason for the decision shall be provided.
5.	Arbitration awards shall be of no precedential value, and shall not thereafter be referred to by the parties in respect of any other matter.
6.	All settlements of expedited arbitration cases prior to hearing shall be without prejudice.
7.	All expedited arbitration cases shall come under the provisions cf marginal paragraph 7.05 of Local 7884.
8.	It is understood and agreed by the parties that only Local Union representatives and Fording Coal Industrial Relations staff will act as Counsel during Fast Track Arbitration proceedings.
9.	The hearing dates for expedited arbitrations shall be at such dates and places as the parties shall agree upon, and thereafter quarter-annually at mutually agreed upon dates and places.
This Letter of Understanding shall expire on the expiry
of the current Collective Agreement, unless renewed by
mutual agreement of the parties.
116
LET ER OF UNDERSTANDING. No. 13 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7884
SUBJECT: “C.W.S. Agreement”
1)	The parties agree that the following job classes are established: Instrument Mechanic Job Class 22; all other trades Job Class 21, except Certified Industrial Warehouseman which is established at Job Class 18, effective 17 March, 1986.
2)	The above job classes are recognized as negotiated and are not part of the CWS Program.
3)	The Company agrees to pay the amount of $175,000 to employees identified by the Union in the following trades who are on the Company’s payroll as of March 17, 1986:
Electrician
Machinist
Heavy Duty Mechanic
Certified Industrial Warehouseman
Millwright
Pipefitter with a grade #2 gas ticket, including apprentices in the above named trades, and any apprentices and journeymen who were moved out of the above trades since May of 1982 to other employment with the Local 7884 Bargaining Unit at Fording Coal Limited.
4)	The sumof$175,000 isto bedistributed to the above mentioned employees in equal amounts on individual
118
TERM OF AGREEMENT
The term of the Collective Agreement will be from May 1, 1985 to April 30, 1989.
It is specifically agreed between the parties hereto, in accordance with Section 66, subsection (3) of the Labour Code of British Columbia that the operation of Section 66, subsection (2) of the said Act is hereby excluded and shall not be applicable to this Agreement.
This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto, jointly and severally, and upon their respective successors and assigns.
The Company will print the Collective Agreement and will provide each employee with a copy not laterthan four (4) months after the signing of this Agreement.
120
Memorandum of Agreement 4 Day On, 4 Day Off, 12 Hour Shift Schedule
All provisions of the Collective Agreement shall apply to the employees covered by this Agreement except as modified or restricted by a clause of this Agreement.
The parties shall mutually agree before any employee or group of employees are included in the four days on and four days off, twelve hour shift schedule, provided these inclusions are approved by the Minister of Mines and the Minister of Labour. Such employees will be covered by this Agreement with such modifications as may be required and which are agreed to by the parties.
A.	Employees Covered by Agreement
The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all
employees engaged in the fpur (4) days on and four
(4)	days off, twelve (12) hour shift schedule.
B.	General Conditions
1.	The normal work day shall be twelve (12) consecutive hours of work at the employee's designated working place in a twenty-four (24) hour period.
2.	The work period shall be an employee's complete period of days starting with his first scheduled work day and concluding at the end of the first occurring rest days.
3.	The work cycle shall be forty-two (42) consecutive days. Schedules of work shall average forty (40) hours perweek over the complete work cycle. The average forty (40) hour week shall be accomplished by banking the last twelve (12) hour shift worked as a rest day once during every work cycle of forty-two (42) days.
The accumulated rest days will be scheduled as time off by the Company in periods of four (4)
122
C.	Overtime Work
Overtime occurs when an employee is required to work more than his scheduled hours of work in a work day or on a scheduled rest day. Overtime shall be paid as follows:
1.	For the first six (6) hours of overtime worked during an employee's work period, the rate of pay shall beone and one-half (1-1/2) times the base rate of the employee.
2.	For all overtime worked by an employee during his work period which is in excess of six (6) hours overtime during that period, the rate of pay shall be two (2) times the base rate of the employee.
3.	Overtime which is in excess of eight hours overtime during an employee's work period shall be voluntary.
All overtime in a work period is subject to the following conditions:
(a)	where urgent or necessary relief work is essential to the continuance of the ordinary working of the mine, but only on an occasional basis and not, in any case, for a longer period than sixteen (16) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period;
OR
(b)	where an emergency exists where life or property is in danger;
OR
(c)	where there is a necessity for a periodic change of shift.
(d)	Employees working overtime may elect to bank time off with pay in lieu of receiving overtime pay at the time the overtime is worked.
124
for more than one (1) work day and fails before reporting to work to notify his supervisor of his intention to return to work.
(c) Any employee who works four (4) hours or more in a work day and is sent home so that he may come to work at a later time in that work day shall receive overtime rates for all work performed at such later time.
D.	Statutory Holidays
1.	Provisions of marginal paragraphs 11.01,11.02, 11.03,11.04, and 11.05 of the Collective Agreement shall apply to employees covered by this Agreement.
2.	Provisions of marginal paragraph 11.06 of the Collective Agreement shall apply with the following qualification. An employee who is scheduled to work on a Statutory Holiday and who works only a part of his assigned shift will be paid two and one-half (2-1/2) times his base rate for the time worked. If the period worked is less than eight (8) hours he shall be paid at his base rate exclusive of shift premiums, weekend premiums, overtime bonuses, holiday or other premiums for the difference between his actual hours worked and eight (8) hours.
3.	Provisions of marginal paragraph 11.07 of the Collective Agreement shall apply to employees covered by this Agreement subject to the following qualification. When a Statutory Holiday falls on an employee's rest day or during a scheduled vacation, the employee will receive eight (8) hours pay at base rate, exclusive of shift premiums, weekend premiums, overtime bonuses, holiday or other premiums.
126
(a)	If hired between January 1st and June 30th inclusive of the previous year, two (2) weeks vacation with pay.
(b)	If hired between July 1st and December 31st inclusive of the previous year, one (1) week vacation with pay.
2. An employee shall be entitled to a vacation with pay as follows:
Complete Yrs/ ervice As Of The 1st Day Of. riuarv In Any Year	Hours Of Vacation With Pay Entitlement	Plateau Years
1	96	
2	120	3 weeks
3	120	
4	128	
5	136	
6	144	
7	152	
8	160	4 weeks
9	160	
10	168	
11	168	
12	176	
13	176	
14	184	
15	184	
16	192	
17	192	
18	200	5 weeks
19	200	
20	208	
21	208	
22	216	
23	216	
24	224	
128
17.06	will be calculated in terms of eight hour work days.
Special Vacations
The provisions of Article 18 of the Collective Agreement shall apply save and except for the following:
(a)	For the purpose of this Agreement, a week of vacation shall consist of one (1) work period of four (4) working days plus four (4) days off.
(b)	For the purpose of computing vacation pay, the word “week” shall be considered as constituting forty (40) hours.
H.	Premiums
(j) A premium of forty cents (40c) per hour shall be paid for all regular scheduled hours worked in excess of eight hours on the day shift.
(ii)	A premium of forty cents (40c) per hour shall be paid for each hourworked of the first four regular scheduled hours on the night shift.
(iii)	A premium of eighty cents (80c) per hour shall be paid for all regular scheduled hours worked in excess of four hours on the night shift.
I.	Sickness and Accident
The provisions of marginal paragraph 22.03 of the Collective Agreement shall apply save and except for the following:
For the purpose of this Agreement the Sickness and
Accident Benefit Plan will provide benefits on a 1-3-52
basis.
J.	On Call
An employee required to standby for a possible call
into work shall be paid a premium of eighteen dol-130
SCHEDULE 'A' • Job Classifications
Job	Mine		
Class Production		Maintenance	Processing
1		Dryman/ Janitor/ess	
		Labourer	
2			Labourer ' Mailperson
3	Pit Utility		
4		Tool Crib Att.	Tool Crib
5			Att.
6		Stmbay Att.	Oiler I
7			Analyst I
8	Boom Tr	Boom Tr	Delivery Tr.
	Op Tr Pumpman Tr	Op Tr	Oiler II Utilityman
9	Drag. Oiler	Srvmn I HE/LE Proc. Op. I	
	Ti reman I	Srvmn Elec I Service Op I	Analyst II
10	Dispatcher	Dispatcher Tr	Dispatcher
	Tr		Tr
	Hlge. Dr Tr	Boom Tr Op	Oiler
	Boom Tr Op Pumpman Blast Tr I	Stm Clnr/Tr Op	
11	Ti reman II	Srvmn. II,	Proc. Op. II
		HE/LE Srvmn. Elec II Service Op II	Analyst III
12	Dispatcher Hlge. Dr. 120 Rtry.Drl.Tr.l Crusher	Dispatcher	
	Op.Tr. Blaster Tr. II		
Engineering
132
Schedule “A", Cost of Living Allowance
1.	The Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) shall be suspended during the term of this Agreement. For record purposes only, the formula is outlined hereinafter.
2.	The cost of living allowance shall be based on the Consumer Price Index (all items - base 1981 equal 100) published by statistics Canada (hereinafter referred to as CPI).
3.	The cost of living allowance shall be equal to one cent <1c) for each 0.11 point rise in the CPI as hereinafter determined counting as a full cent any fraction of one-half cent (1/2t) or more.
4.	The cost of living allowance shall only be paid for hours actually worked and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall not be included in the calculation of overtime rates, vacation and statutory holiday pay, incentive plans or any other premium or benefits.
5.	In the event that Statistics Canada does not issue the CPI on or before the beginning of the periods referred to, any pay adjustments required shall be made at the beginning of the first pay period after publication of the CPI and shall be retroactive to the commencement of the appropriate period. In the event that a retroactive adjustment is made by Statistics Canada to the CPI it is agreed that the paid allowance to the employees will not be adjusted retroactively.
6.	The parties to this Agreement agree that the continuance of the Cost of Living Allowance will depend on availability of the monthly Statistics Canada CPI in its present form and calculated on the same basis as the index for 1981. If Statistics Canada changes the form or basis of calculating the CPI, the parties shall attempt to determine an appropriate index figure by agreement. If agreement is not reached the
134
1987 SHIFT CALENDAR
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH
SMTWTFS SMTWTFS SMTWTFS
				m m	2 FH		1 HG	2 HG	3 FH	4 FH	5 IF	0 IF	7 Gl	1 IF	2 IF	3 Gl	4 Gl	5 HQ	6 HQ	7 FH
4 IF	5 IF	6 Gl	7 Gl	8 HG	9 HQ	10 FH	8 Ql	9 HG	10 HG	11 FH	12 FH	13 IF	14 IF	8 FH	9 IF	10 IF	11 Gl	12 Gl	13 HQ	14 HG
11 FH	12 IF	13 IF	14 Gl	IS Gl	1B HG	17 HG	15 Gl	16 Gl	17 HO	18 HO	19	20 FH	21 IF	16 FH	18 FH	17 IF	16 IF	19 Gl	20 Gt	21 HG
18 FH	19 FH	20 IF	21 IF	22 01	23 01	24 m	22 |F	23 Gl	24 Gl	25 HG	28 HG	27 PH	26 FH	22 HG	23 FH	24 FH	26 IF	26 IF	27 Gl	28 Gl
25 HO	26 FH	2T FH	28 IF	29 IF	30 01	31 01								29 HG	30 HG	31 FH				
APRIL SMTWTFS							MAY SMTWTFS							JUNE SMTWTFS						
			1 FH	2 IF	3 IF	4 Gl						1 HG	2 £H		HG	2 HG	3 FH	4 FH	5 IF	6 IF
s C.l	6 HO	1 HO	a FH	9 PH	:i* m	11 IF	3 m	4 IF	5 IF	6 Of	7 Gl	8 HG	9 HS.	7 Gl	a Gl	9 HG	10 HO	11 FH	12 FH	13 IF
12 Ql	13 Gl	14 HO	15 HO	16 FH	IT FH	18 IF	10 FH	11 FH	12 IF	13 IF	14 Gl	15 Gt	16 HO	(4 IF	15 Gl	16 Gl	17 HG	16 HG	19 FH	20 FH
19 'F	20 Ql	21 Gl	22 HG	23 HO	24 FH	25 FH	17 HG		19 FH	20 IF	21 IF	22 01	23 Gl	21 IF	22 IF	23 Gl	24 Gl	25 HG	26 HG	27 FH
26 IF	27 IF	26 Gl	22 Gl	30 HG			24 HG	25 HG	26 FH	27 FH	26 |F	29 IF	3d Gl	28 FH	29 IF	30 IF				
JULY SMTWTFS							31 01							SEPTEMBER S M . w T F 6						
							AUGUST SMTWTFS													
			m w	2 G|	3 HQ	HG							1 IF			IF	2 IF	3 m	4 Gl	HO
5 FH	6 FH	7 IF	8 IF	9 01	10 01	11 HO	2 01	W:- W	4 HO	6 HO	6 FH	7 FH	6 IF	6 M	■Sfci m	8 FH	9 IF	10 IP	11 Gl	12 01
12 HO	13 FH	14 FH	16 IF	16 IF	17 Gl	18 Gl	9 tF	10 Ql	Gl	12 HG	13 HG	14 FH	1S FH	13 HG	14 HG	15 FH	16 FH	17 IF	18 IF	10 Ol
19 HO	20 HO	21 FH	22 FH	23 IF	24 IP	25 -5i	16 IF	17 IF	IS 01	19 01	20 HG 27 Gl	21 HG	22 FH	20 GL	21 HG	22 HO	23 FH	24 FH	25 IF	26 IF
28 G|	21 HG	28 HG	29 FH	30 FH	31 IF		23 FH	24 IF	25 IF	28 01		28 HG	29 HO	27 Gl	28 Gl	29 HG	30 HG			
OCTOBER SMTWTFS							30 FH	31 FH						DECEMBER SMTWTFS						
							NOVEMBER SMTWTFS													
				FH	2 FH	IF	1 HG	2 FH	3 FH	4 IF	5 IF	6 Gl	7 Gl			1 Gl	2 HQ	3 HQ	4 FH	5 FH
4 IF	S 01	5 Gl	T 4G	6 HO	0 FH	10 M	6 HO	9 HO	10 FH	m	12 If	13 IF	14 JLL	6 it	7 IF	8 QL	9 GL	10 HQ	ii HG	12 FH
11 It		13 0|	14 Ql	1S HO	16 HO	17 FH	15 Gl	16 HG	17 HO	18 FH	19 pH	20 IF	21 IF	13 FH	14 IF	15 IF	(6 Gl	17 01	(8 HG	IS HO'
18 FH	19 |F	20 IF	21 Gl	22 01	23 HO	24 HO	22 Gl	23 01	24 HO	25 HO	26 FH	27 FH	28 IF	20 £H	21 FH	22 IF	23 |F	24 01	m	Mi m
28 FH	20 FH	27 IF	28 IF	29 01	30 Ql	31 HG	29 IF	30 Gl						27 HG	28 FH	29 Ffl	30 IF	31 IF		
40N, 4 0FF SCHEOULE	SHIFT ORDER IS: 2 Days, 2 Nights. 4 Days Olf
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS: Shown As	SHIFTS ARE MARKED: I. G, H, I
1989 SHIFT CALENDAR
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH
s	M	T	W			S	S	M	T	W	T		s		s	M		w	T	F	S
						7				1	2	3	4					i	2	3	4
w	IF	Gl	Gl	HG	HQ	FH				FH	IF	IF	Gl					Gl	HG	HQ	FH
B	9	10	11	12	13	14	s	6	7	6	9	10	11		5	6	t	6	9	10	11
FH	IF	IF	Gl	Of	HO	HG	Gl	HQ	HG	FH	FH	IF	IF		FH	IF	IF	Gl	01	HQ	HO
IS	16	17	16	19	20	21	12	13	14	15	16	17	18		12	13	14	IS	16	17	18
FH	FH	IF	IF	Gl	Ql	HG	Ql	Gl	HQ	HG	FH	FH	IF		FH	FH	IF	IF	Ql	Gl	HG
22	23	24	25	26	27	26	1ft	20	21	22	23	24	25		19	20	21	22	23	#	25
HQ	FH		IF	IF	01	Ql	IF	Ql	r.i	HO	HQ	FH	FH		HQ	FH	FH	IF	IF	m	Gl
29	30	31					26	27	28						26	27	26	29	30	31	
HQ	HQ	FH					IF	IF	01						HO	HQ	FH	FH	IF	IF	
		APRIL							MAY								JUNE				
S	M		W		F	S	S	M	T	W	T		S		S	M		W	T		S
						1		1	2	3	4	S	6						1	2	3
						Ql		|F	IF	01	01	HQ	H®						FH	IF	IF
2	3	4	6	6	7	6	7	6	9	10	11	12	13		4	6	6	7	8	9	10
01	HQ	HQ	FH	FH	IF	IF	fiL	FH	IF	IF	G|	Gl	HO		01	Ql	HO	HG	FH	FH	IF
0	10	11	12	13	14	16	14	15	16	17	16	19	20		11	12	13	14	15	16	17
01	Gl	HQ	HO	FH	FH	IF	H&	FH	FH	IF	IF	Ql	01		IF	01	Gl	HO	HO	FH	FH
16	17	16	19	20	21	22	21	w	23	24	25	26	27		16	19	20	21	22	23	24
IF	Gl	J£L	HQ	HQ	FH	£d	HO	HQ	FH	FH	IF	IF	01		IF	IF	Gl	Ql	HQ	HQ	FH
23	24	25	26	27	26	20	26	29	30	34					25	28	27	28	29	30	
IF	IF	01	01	HO	HG	FH	01	HO	HO	FH					FH	IF	IF	01	ni	HQ	
30 FH																					
		JULY							AUGUST							SEPTEMBER					
S	M	r	W		F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S		S	M		W	T	F	S
									1	2	3	4	s							1	2
						m			HQ	HO	FH	FH	IF							G|	HO
2	3	4	s	6	7	6	6		8	6	10	11	12		3		S	6	7	6	9
FH	FH	IF	IF	oi	m	HQ	IF	m	01	HG	HQ	FH	FH		HQ		FH	IF	IF	Ql	0|
9	10	11	12	13	14	IS	13	14	1S	16	17	16	19		to	11	12	13	14	15	16
HQ	FH	FH	IF	IF	Gl	01	IF	IF	01	01	HO	HQ	FH		MG	HO	FH	FH	IF	IF	Ql
IS	17	IS	19	70	21	22	20	21	22	23	24	25	26		17	18	19	20	21	22	23
HQ	HG	FH	FH	IF	IF	Ql	FH	IF	IF	Ql	Gl	HO	HO		01	HO	HO	FH	FH	IF	IF
23	24	25	26	27	26	29	27	26	29	36	31				24	25	26	27	26	29	30
Gl	H«	HQ	FH	FH	IF	IF	M	FH	IF	IF	Gl				G|	01	HG	HG	FH	FH	JL.
30	31																				
01	Gl															DECEMBER					
															S	M		W		F	S
																					
S	M		W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	s							FH	FH
1	2	3	4	6	6	7				1	2	3	4		3	4	5	6	7	6	ft
IF	01	01	hq	HO	FH	FH				IF	IF	Ql	Ol		IF	IF	Ql	Ql	HQ	HQ	FH
B		10	it	12	13	14	6	6	7	8	9	10			10	11	12	13	14	15	16
IF	m	Ql	m	HQ	HQ	m	HO	HQ	FH	EK	IF	IF	w		FH	IF	IF	Gl	G|	HQ	HG
15	16	17	16	19	20	21	12	13	14	15	16	17	18		17	16	19	20	21	22	23
FH	IF	IF	ni	01	HO	HO	Ol	HO	HO	FH	FH	IF	IF		FH	FH	IF	IF	Ql	01	HG
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	10	20	21	22	23	24	25		24		'ate	27	28	29	30
FH	FH	IF	IF	01	01	HO	01	Q|	HO	HQ	FH	FH	IF		HO	ffi	FM:	IF	IF	01	01
28	30	31					29	27	23	29	30				31						
HQ	FH	EK					IF	Gl	Ql	HQ	HG				HG						
4 ON, 4-OFF SCHEDULE	SHIFT ORDER I S 2 Days. 2 Nights, 4 Days Off
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS: Shown As	SHIFTS ARE MARKED I, Q, H, |