■=a	/
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3
ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6
ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS...................... 5
UNION SECURITY......................... 5
UNION BUSINESS......................... 7
Leave of Absence....................... 7
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.................... 9
Union Activities on Company Time.	9
Procedure for Settling Disputes........ 9
SAFETY AND HEALTH..................... 14
Accident Investigation Procedure.	14
Joint Safety and Health Committees ...	15
Safety Complaints and Disputes...	17
Safety Rules on Hazardous
Materials........................... 19
Personal Protective Equipment......... 20
Medicals.............................. 20
Environment........................... 21
ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10
ARTICLE 11
HOURS OF WORK...........
Supervisors.............
OVERTIME RATES..........
Change of Work Schedule.,
Call Out................
Eight (8) Hour Rest Period.. Reporting Pay...........
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS...
21
22
24
25
26 26 26
27
ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14
ARTICLE 15
ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17
ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21
SALARIES........................... 29
Salaried Job Evaluation
(See Appendix “B”) ...........30-82
PREMIUMS.,......................... 30
On Call............................ 31
Emergency Rescue Team Premiums... 32
SENIORITY.......................... 32
Probationary Period................ 32
Reductions in Work Force........... 35
Recall............................. 36
POSTINGS, PROMOTIONS,
DEMOTIONS, TRANSFERS............ 37
Vacancies.......................... 37
Job Posting Procedure.............. 38
Selection Procedure................ 39
Temporary Job Assignment and
Rate of Pay..................... 41
Temporary Job Assignment Which Changes to a Temporary Job
Vacancy Including Benefits...... 42
Temporary Job Vacancy Which
Changes to a Permanent Job.....	43
Return of Absent Employee.......... 43
TRAINING........................... 44
Trades Committee................... 45
ANNUAL VACATIONS................... 45
Vacation Scheduling................ 47
Vacation Adjustment................ 48
Unpaid Leave....................... 48
Seasonal Vacation Bonus............ 48
SPECIAL VACATIONS........... 49
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE........... 51
JURY DUTY/WITNESS PAY....... 51
MATERNITY LEAVE............. 52
II
ARTICLE 22	BENEFITS........................... 53
Medical Plans..................... 53
Sick Leave Plan................... 54
Long Term Disability Plan......... 54
Group Life........................ 55
Dental Plan....................... 57
Optical Plan...................... 57
Premium Rebates................... 58
ARTICLE 23	PENSION PLAN.,..................... 58
ARTICLE 24	ON LOAN ........................... 58
ARTICLE 25	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE............... 60
Purpose........................... 60
Definition........................ 60
Prior Notice...................... 60
Company-Union Meetings............ 60
Maintenance of Rate Benefit....... 61
Training Benefit.................. 61
Severance Benefit................. 61
ARTICLE 26	LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING.........	62
TERM OF AGREEMENT............................. 62
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT — 4 Days On,
4 Days Off 12 Hour Shift Schedule.......... 64
A.	Employees Covered by this Agreement ........ 64
B.	General Conditions.......................... 64
C.	Overtime Work............................... 65
D.	Statutory Holidays ..	67
E.	Bereavement Leave.	68
F.	Annual Vacations............................ 69
G.	Special Vacations........................... 71
H.	Basic Sick Leave............................ 71
I.	On Gall..................................... 72
J.	Exclusions.................................. 72
III
APPENDIX “A” Salaries.............................
Job Promotion Procedure..........
Office Staff.....................
Technician and Supervisory.......
COLA.............................
APPENDIX “B” Job Evaluation.......................
Joint Job Evaluation Committee ....
Standards........................
Procedures for Job Evaluation....
Rate Protection..................
Cover artwork by L. C. Clarke. 1983, a residentof the Valley.
IV
72
74
77
78
80
82
82
83
84
86
Elk
THIS AGREEMENT made the 14th day of November, 1983, A.D. effective May 1, 1983.
BETWEEN:
FORDING COAL LIMITED
(hereinafter called the ’’Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE I. PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to establish settled conditions of employment and to ensure the prompt and equitable disposition of any grievances which may arise.
The Company and the Union agree to meet from time to time to discuss matters of mutual concern at the request of either party.
1.02	Words imparting the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
1
ARTICLE 2. NO STRIKES, NO LOCKOUTS
2.01	The Company shall not cause or direct any lockout of employees during the life of this Agreement, and neither the Union nor any representativethereof, nor any employees shall in any way authorize, encourage or participate in any strike, walkout, suspension of work, or slow down on the part of any employee or group of employees during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3. RECOGNITION
3.01	Union Recognition
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive representative for the purpose of conductingcollective bargaining regarding all working conditions of employees employed at the Company's operations, and the Company will continue to so recognize the Union as long as the Union retains its right to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of such employees under the law.
3.02	Employees Covered by the Agreement
(a)	The term “employees” as used in this Agreement means all those people employed by the Company atthe Company’s operations twenty-nine (29) kilometers north of Elkford, B.C., by road, employed in the classifications listed in Appendix “ A or such new classificationsas the Company may establish as required and which classifications the parties may agree are included within the unit.
For the purpose of this Agreement the term “persons” shall mean all people not represented by U.S.W.A., Local 9702.
(b)	The “Company's Operations” shall mean the operations of Fording Coal Limited described in sub-paragraph (a) above.
3.03	The Company recognizes that it is not the function of persons not in the U.S.W.A. Local 9702 bargaining unit to
2
perform work that is normally performed by an employee in the bargaining unit where qualified employees are reasonably available to do such work except when it is deemed necessary by the Company to instruct employees, assure proper performance of the work and continuity of operations, proper operation of equipment, to protect Company property, to assure safety and health of employees, to operate pilot or test programs or to man new facilities during start up programs, and in the case of emergency, or in the performance of occasional unforeseen and necessary work when productionfacili-ties or troubles are encountered on the job. The Company agrees that these functions shall not be abused. In no case shall an employee in the bargaining unit be displaced by performance of such work by such other person.
3.04	No Discrimination
The Company agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination against any employee by reason of his legitimate activities as a member, Steward or Officer of the Union. The Union agrees that there shall be no intimidationor discrimination on its part towards any employee of the Company. The parties also subscribe to and support the principles of the Human Rights Code of British Columbia.
3.05	The Company shall provide the Union with the following informationpertinentto employeesinU.S.W.A., Local9702:
A listing of employees (quarterly) showing names, addresses and job classifications listed in order of seniority, and will also provide on a current basis:
(a)	copies of job postings, job awards and employee demotions;
(b)	listings of hirings, discharges, resignations, retirements and deaths;
(c)	job classifications and job evaluation descriptions;
(d)	descriptive information relating to pension and welfare plans;
(e)	exact copies of all disciplinary notes;
3
(f)	monthly, a list of contractors on the property;
(g)	bi-weekly, a list of Acting Supervisors from U.S.W.A., Local 7884;
(h)	monthly, a list of temporary employees;
(i)	a list of plants which the Company considers necessary to operate on a continuous basis;
(j)	weekly, copies of accidentinvestigationreports and work-related first aid treatment slips for U.S.W.A., Local 9702;
(k)	minutes of all safety committee meetings as per marginal paragraph 8.05;
(l)	annually, or as changes occur, a list of all hazardous materials and/or procedures for handling such, as per marginal paragraph 8.10.
3.06	The Company will issue to each new employee an envelope provided by the Union containing an applicationform for Union membershipand a list of names of the Union executive and stewards. The Company will provide the Union with a list of new employees hired each month and also with a list of employees who have severed each month.
3.07	Bulletin Boards
The Company agrees that a section of a bulletin board in each section of the operation shall be made available to the Union for its purposes provided that the use of such boards shall be restricted to the posting of notices regarding the business affairs, meetings and social events of the Union, and the reports of various committeesof the Union, and providedthat no such notice may be posted unless the approval of the Company to the posting has first been attained and the notation of the approval endorsed on the notice.
The Company agrees to furnish to the Union a key for each bulletin board and to keep the bulletin board in reasonable repair.
Until further notice from the Company to the Union, the approval referred to above need not be obtained.
4
ARTICLE 4. MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union recognizes the undisputed rights of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities and to make and alter from time to time rules and regulationsto be observed by employees, which rulesand regulationsshall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement. The Union further recognizes that the Company retains all the customary rights, responsibilities, functions and prerogatives of management, except as expressly modified or restricted by a clause of this Agreement.
4.02	Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to obligate the Company to continue to operate any of its plants or properties or any part thereof.
4.03	The Company shall always have the right to hire, to discipline, demote and discharge employeestbr just and sufficient cause: and to retire an employee at his normal retirement age.
4.04
(a)	Supervisor Job Opportunity
When there is a requirement for supervisory personnel, the Company shall place job opportunity postings on local bulletin boards. Employees who wish to be considered for such positions may submit their names to the Employment Supervisor, Personnel, in accordance with notice instructions. Due considerationshall be givento all applicants.
(b)	Selection of Supervisors
The selection of supervisors shall be entirely a matterfor the Company's decision.
ARTICLE 5. UNION SECURITY
5.01	The Company shall deduct, as a condition of each employee'scontinued employment a sum equivalent to Union 5
dues prorated to conform with the semi-monthly pay system as follows:
5.02	Upon receipt of a signed authorization card, the Company shall deduct from each employee's salary: initiation fees, dues, death benefit assignments as set by the Union, and one International Union assessment (excludingfines) not exceeding four dollars ($4.00) per year.
5.03	The deductions referred to above shall commence in the case of each employee who is in the employ of the Company at the effective date of this Agreement and in the case of each employee enteringthe employment of the Company subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement, with the pay period for which his first pay cheque from the Company is received by him.
5.04	Union dues for each employee shall be equal to one point two percent (1.2%) of total (gross) earnings each semimonth during the reference period (as defined herein) save that the minimum and maximum dues during such period shall be as communicated by the Union in writing to the Company.
5.05	Total earnings for the purpose of calculating Union dues shall be deemed to include base salary and all premiums (if any) including shift premiums, weekend premiums, incentive bonus pay, vacation pay, statutory holiday pay, overtime pay, COLA earnings, call-in and reporting pay, etc., but shall not include any Workers Compensation payments or payments under any benevolent, sickness or accident plans.
5.06	The reference period shall be the semi-month period immediately prior to each pay day. Dues shall be deducted from each employee every pay period and remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union by cheque payable to the International Treasurer of the United Steelworkers of America no later than the 10th day following each pay day. The Company shall include with each cheque a list of employees indicating the amount of dues deducted from each.
6
5.07	In the event an employee does not work at least twenty (20) hours or be paid for at least twenty (20) hours of vacation or unworked statutory holidays in the reference period, then no dues will be deducted. Also, no dues will be deducted if at the time of preparation of the pay cheque there are insufficient funds owing to the employee concerned except to the extent that such funds are owing to the employee.
5.08	As early as possible in each calendar year, and no later than February 15, the Company shall provide the Local with an individual statement listing the total of Union dues (or equivalent) deducted from the pay of each employee during the calendar year and paid to the Union in accordance with this Article. In addition, the Company shall cause to be printed on the T-4 slips issued to each employee by the Company, the amount of each employee's union dues.
5.09	Notwithstandingany provisionscontained in this Article, there shall be no financial responsibility on the part of the Company for fees or dues of an employee unless there are sufficient unpaid wages of that employee in the Company's hands.
ARTICLE 6. UNION BUSINESS
6.01	Leave for International Union Business
On two (2) weeks notice and written application by the Union to the General Manager, Fording Operations, the Company agrees to grant a leave of absence, without pay, to an employee appointed to a position with the International of the United Steelworkers of America or for the business purposes of the International. Such leave of absence shall be limited to a maximum period of one year. The Company shall not be required to grant the privilege under this section to more than one (1) employee at the same time.
6.02	Leave of Absence
The Company will grant unpaid leave of absence to an employee who is appointed or elected to Union Office for a period not exceeding three (3) years. Application for such leave shall 7
be made in writing to the Industrial Relations Supervisor of the Company. The Company shall not be required to grant the privilege under marginal paragraph 6.02 to more than one employee at the same time.
6.03	Time spent under marginal paragraphs 6.01 and 6.02 above shall not in any way jeopardize an employee's seniority nor service for pension purposes, but shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining specific vacation entitlements or other benefits.
6.04
(a)	The Company agrees to grant leave of absence without pay to employeesto attend such items as labour conventions, Union matters, labour arbitrations, labour schools or grievance matters beyond the third step as set forth in this Agreement, provided the leaves of absence granted under marginal paragraph 6.04 for all such Union purposes shall not interfere with the normal operations of the Company and shall not, in aggregate, exceed one hundred twenty-five (125) man-days in any one (1) calendar year.
(b)	An employee who is on leave of absence pursuant to this marginal paragraph and such leave exceeds thirty (30) calendar days shall also be required to pay all the costs of all benefits provided under Article 22. This marginal paragraph shall not apply to an employee if the absence is for the purpose of collective bargaining between the Union and the Company.
6.05	Upon two (2) weeks' notice in writing from the Union, the Company agrees to grant a leave of absence without pay to an employee to attend a labour school. The maximum time for such leave shall be two (2) months. The Company shall not be obligated to grant a leave under marginal paragraph 6.05 to more than two (2) employees at the same time:
6.06	No person shall solicit membership in the Union or in any other labour organization, or collect dues for the Union or any other labour organization, or engage in any Union or labour
8
organization activity on Company time or within the plants of the Company except to the extent expressly provided for in this Agreement.
6.07	The Company will forward to the Union at the beginning of each month a sum equivalent to 20 hours’ pay at Job Group 31, Step 3, for the purpose of conducting off-property Union business.
ARTICLE 7. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	The Union will advise the Company of three regular employees selected as members of a grievance committee and this committee shall act regarding the interpretation or a violation of this Agreement. The Company shall endeavor to place the Chairman of the grievance committee of the Union on steady day shift.
7.02	Union Activities on Company Time
The time spent in investigating and settling disputes by employees delegated by the Union for that purpose shall be considered as time worked and pay shall be on the basis of straight time. Under no condition shall overtime rates be paid.
Prior to leaving the job to investigate or process a grievance, a Steward, Grievance Committee member, or Union Executive member must first obtain permission from his immediate supervisor. Such permissionshall not be unreasonablywithheld, and if so, the reason shall be stated in writing. Grievances will be handled during working hours.
7.03	Should a dispute arise between the Company and any employee or group of employees regarding the interpretation or a violation of the Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the dispute as soon as possible. Employees, with or without a shop steward, must try to settle their dispute with their immediate supervisor.
Failing settlement, a written grievance will be presented to the Company at Step 1.
9
Step 1 Within thirty (30) calendar days after the alleged dispute has arisen or within thirty (30) calendar days from the time the employee should reasonably have known of the occurrence giving rise to the alleged dispute, the employee, with a shop steward, may present a written grievance to his Foreman/Administrator. The Foreman/Administratorwill record the facts as presented, investigate the grievance and provide a written answer to the grievancewithin three (3) days (excluding rest days and statutory holidays) of receiving the grievance.
Failing a satisfactory resolution, the grievance may proceed to Step 2.
Step 2 Within seven (7) calendar days of receiving the answer at Step 1, the employee, with a shop steward may present the written grievance to the General Foreman/Senior Administrator, who shall investigate the grievance and provide a written answer to the grievance within three (3) days (excluding rest days and statutory holidays).
Failing a satisfactory resolution, the grievance may proceed to Step 3.
Step 3 Failing a satisfactory settlement within seven (7) calendar days after the dispute was submitted at Step2,the grievance committee may submit the dispute which shall be in writing outlining the nature of the grievance, the remedy sought and the section(s) of the Agreement which are alleged to have been violated to the Industrial Relations department. A staff representative of the Union may be present at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
Failing a satisfactory settlement or reply within seven (7) calendar days of the submission at Step 3, the grievance may proceed to Step 4.
Step 4 Within thirty (30) calendar days after a decision was made or should have been made by the Company at Step 3, the Union may, by written notice to the Company, refer the dispute to arbitration or Section 112 procedure. Withinten (10) calendar days following receipt of such notice, the Company
10
and the Union will select one arbitrator from the following panel of arbitrators and mutually set a date(s) for an arbitration or Section 112 hearing:
1.	M. I. Chertkow
2.	A. H. Hope
3.	V. Ready
4.	B. Williams (Swinton & Co.)
The selection of an arbitrator shall be by alphabetical order from the panel ifavailable to act. The selection of an arbitrator for the next arbitration shall commence with the next name in alphabetical sequence. If the parties cannot mutually agree upon an arbitrator within ten (10) calendar days, the appointment shall be made by the Minister cf Labour of the Province of British Columbia upon request of either party.
The arbitrator shall hear the parties to the grievance and shall render his decision within a maximumof thirty (30) days following the hearing.
The decision of the arbitrator in respect of an interpretationor alleged violation of this Agreement, shall be final and binding upon the parties. Each party shall pay the expenses incurred in connection with the presentation and preparation of its own case. The parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the arbitrator.
Note: Prior to proceeding to arbitration, if new facts regarding the grievance are revealed and those facts were not previously considered during the grievance procedure, then the General Manager of the Company and the Local Union President may meet to discuss those facts.
7.04	Expedited Arbitration
The parties agree to incorporate the Section112 procedure of the B.C. Labour Code into this CollectiveAgreement as follows:
(a)	Where a difference arises between the parties relating to the dismissal, discipline, or suspension of an employee, or to the interpretation, application, operation or alleged 11
violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, during the term of the Collective Agreement, Mr. M. I. Chertkow or a substitute agreed to by the parties shall, at the request of either party:
(i)	investigate the difference;
(ii)	define the issue in the difference; and
(iii)	make written recommendations to resolvethe difference within five (5) days of the date of receipt of the request; and, for those five (5) days from that date, time does not run in respectof the grievance procedure.
(b)	The parties agree when reference is made to Section 112 of the Labour Code of British Columbia that both parties will meet in advance of any investigationto define the issues to the member(s) named as Section 112 investigators.
(c)	Any recommendations of the grievance investigator shall be binding on both parties unless the parties agree otherwise.
(d)	Both parties agree that should this approach to Section 112 be unsatisfactoryfor either party, the powerto make binding decisionsrelatingto the interpretation,application, operation or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable will be excluded from this procedure. The procedure shall then be limited to cases involving dismissal or discipline only. This limitation will be accomplished by thirty (30) days written notice by either party.
7.05	Ifa grievance is not advanced through the Steps of the grievance procedurewithin the specified time limits, the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedurb'shaii be at an end.
Ifa grievance is not replied to within the time limits as specified in Steps 1,2, and 3 of the grievance procedure, then the
12
grieving party shall retain the right to proceed to the next step within the time limits specified.
The abandonment of a grievance under this Article shall not prejudice any future cases of a similar nature.
Any time limits provided for in this Article may be varied by the mutual consent of the Company and the Union and confirmed in writing.
7.06	The Company shall have the right to submit any dispute regarding the interpretation of or a violation of this Agreement in writing to the grievance committee of the Union. Failing a satisfactory settlement within seven (7) calendar days of the submission in writing of the dispute by the Company, the Company shall have the right to refer the dispute to arbitration constituted in accordance with this Article.
7.07	The Union shall have the right to refer any dispute regarding the interpretation of or a violation of this Agreement to the Company at Step 3 where:
(a)	There is no aggrieved employee or employees possible of identification at the time the dispute arose, or
(b)	The grievance involves Company policy, in which case the grievor or grievors possible of identification shall be named on the face of the grievance form.
7.08	In all cases while disputes are being investigated and settled, the employee(s) and all other parties involved, except an employee serving a disciplinary suspension, must continue to work, but where an employee(s) has been discharged by the Company, he shall not remain in the employ of the Company while his case is being investigated and settled. Where an employee(s) has been suspended or discharged and it is decided by arbitration that he or they were unjustly suspended or discharged, he or they shall be reinstated and the same arbitrator who dealt with the claim shall fix the compensation, if any, for the time lost by the employee(s) concerned and his decision shall be final.
13
7.09	In the case of a discharge or suspension, a chief steward (or his designate) must be present. On all disciplinary suspensions and discharge cases, a chief steward will be given a copy of the employee's work record and disciplinary notes at the discharge or suspension meeting.
Grievances involving discharge or suspension must be presented directly at Step 3 by a member of the grievance committee. The Step 3 reply will be given within three (3) days (excluding rest days and statutory holidays) of submitting the grievance.
7.10	Any agreement in writing, concerningthe outcome of a dispute, betweenthe Company and the grievance committee shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employee(s) concerned.
7.11	An employee will have the option of having a shop steward present at any meeting or hearing involving any kind of discipline.
A shop steward must be present when an employee is suspended pending investigation.
ARTICLE 8. SAFETY AND HEALTH
8.01	The Company and the Union, realizing the benefits to be derived from a safe and healthy place of employment, agree that they and all employees, Union safety representatives, stewards and officers and supervision at all levels shall cooperate to promote safe work practices, health conditions and the enforcement of safety rules.
8.02
(a)	Accident Investigation Procedure
The Company and Union agree to co-operativelyconduct accident investigations. Such investigationswill involve a Company Safety Officer, Union Safety Representativeand Supervision from the area. Prior to the conclusion of that work day if possible, the Union Safety Representative and Company Safety Department will prepare the proper
14
documentation and distribute copies to those concerned. The Foreman and Union Safety Representativewill determine whether or not an investigation is required.
(b)	The Company and Union agree to investigate as soon as reasonably possible all accidents to make recommendations for remedial or preventative action. The Company's Safety Officer will be responsible for notifying the Safety Representative and will arrange for the time and place of investigation prior to the conclusion of that work day. Such investigations will include at least one Safety Committee member from the Union and one from the Company.
(c)	Should a disagreement arise about whether or not an investigation should take place, a referee process shall be initiated immediately.The decision of the refereesshall be final and binding on both parties. The Union Representative will be the Safety Committee Chairman or designate. The Company Representative will be the Administrator, Loss Control or designate. Where the referee process has been initiated,the accident/incident scene in dispute shall not be disturbed unless reasonable to do so. The Safety Representative, or a Union Representative if no Safety Representative is available, shall view the scene immediately with the supervisor prior to the scene being disturbed.
(d)	It is recognized that there will be occurrences for which an indepth investigation may or may not be required. For all such occurrences for which an indepth investigation is not required, a report will be filed and made available for review by the Union Safety Chairman.
8.03	Joint Safety and Health Committee The Company and Union agree to appoint a Joint Safety and Health Committee composed of not more than four (4) members appointed by the Union, who shall be selected from employees in each of the four (4) areas of work (Mine Operating, Processing, Maintenance and Warehouse) and not more than four (4) members appointed by the Company. For each mem-
15
ber it appoints, the Union may utilize any other member from its Safety Committee in the absence of a regular member. The function of this Committee shall be to recommend solutionsto problems relating to the promotionof safety, good housekeeping and health at the Company's operations. The Union and the Company will notify each other in writing of the identity of their Joint Safety and Health Committee representatives.
8.04	The responsibilities of the Joint Committee shall be:
(a)	To make regular inspections of the plants and areas of work.
(b)	To review reports of accidents and incidents and to make recommendations for remedial or preventive action.
(c)	To meet regularly to take up such safety and health matters which may be brought before it by either the Union or the Company.
(d)	To review the Company's Safety Rules and make recommendations on amendments or additions.
8.05	The Company Safety Representative will act as secretary of all safety committees and will provide minutes of meetings for management, for all committee members, for those who attended the meeting, for the Union, and will have posted a copy of the minutes on the bulletin boards. At following meetings, discussion of the minutes shall be the first order of business.
If the Union disagrees with the accuracy of the minutes as prepared, it shall set forth reasons for such disagreement in writing and forward to the Company, which disagreements will then form part of the minutes.
8.06	Quarterly Safety Meetings
The President, Safety Chairman and Chief Shop Steward of the Local Union shall meet quarterly with the General Manager and safety representativesof the Company's operations to review the reports and recommendations of the Joint Safety and Health Committee and discuss other matters pertainingto
16
safety, accident prevention and industrial hygiene. The Union and the Company shall exchange agendas of matters they propose to discuss at least one (1) week prior to the meeting. These meetings shall be scheduled to take place in March, June, September and December.
For special needs relatedto safety, the Union Safety Chairman, the President of the Local Union or the Company may request a meeting of the parties. The parties agree that such a meeting when requested by either party will be held within twenty-four hours of the request, or at such time as may be mutually agreed to by the parties.
8.07	The time spent by the Safety Chairman in the performance of his duties of attending scheduled safety meetings, mine and plant safety tours and accident investigations shall be paid for by the Company at straight time rates.
8.08	Procedure for Settling Safety Complaints and Disputes (Non-Supervisory Staff)
It is the intent of the parties that no employee or employees shall be required to work under conditions which are unsafe or unusually hazardous beyond the normal hazard inherent in the operation or process in question. Where an employee is able to demonstrate on reasonable grounds that a condition of unusual hazard exists at his working place, he shall not be subject to discipline by reason of refusing to work at that place.
(a)	An employee shall immediately report unsafe equipment, practices or conditions to his supervisor, and his supervisor shall investigate the concern promptly, and take steps as deemed necessary to correct the situation.
(b)	If the employee is not satisfied with the decision of his supervisor he may refer the matter to the next level of supervision, who together with the Union Safety Representative will discuss the matter with the supervisor and the employee concerned, and that level of supervision shall decide on the steps to be taken to correct the situation.
17
(c)	If the employee is not satisfied with the decision, the Union safety representative may notify the Union Safety Chairman, or his designate, who, with the employee and the Union safety representative will discuss the matter with the Superintendent/Senior Administrator, and if in their opinion it is desirable to discuss it with the department Manager, who will decide on the steps to be taken to correct the situation.
The Union will notify the Company in writing of the Safety Chairman's designate in each of the appropriate departments (Plant, Maintenance, and Mine Operations).
(d)	If the Union Safety Chairman is not satisfied with the answer of the department Manager the Safety Chairman, after consulting with the employee, may refer the matter to the General Manager and if he is still not satisfied with the answer he received, the Company and Union may .jointly apply to the Mines Inspection Branch to obtain an interpretation on the applicable regulation(s) in the Mines Act and Coal Mines Regulation.
(e)	Upon makingthe appropriate arrangements with the section General Foreman/Administrator or the department Superintendent/Senior Administrator, the Union Safety Chairman will have access to any area of the operations at any time. The department Superintendent/Senior Ad-ministratoror his delegate will accompanythe Union Safety Chairman.
8.09	Procedure for Settling Safety Complaints and Disputes (Supervisory Staff)
(a)	An employee shall immediately report unsafe equipment, practices or conditions to his supervisor, and his supervisor shall investigatethe concern promptly, and take steps as deemed necessary to correct the situation.
(b)	If the employee is not satisfied with the decision of his supervisor he may, with or without his Union Safety Representative, discuss the matter with his department Superintendent or Administrator.
18
(c)	If the employee is not satisfied with the answer cf the department Superintendentor Administrator, the employee, together with the Safety Chairman, may refer the matter to the Activity Manager and General Manager, and if they are still not satisfied with the answer they received, the Company and Union may jointly apply to the Mines Inspection Branch to obtain an interpretation on the applicable regulation(s) inthe Mines Act and Coal Mines Regulation.
8.10	Safety Rules and Hazardous Materials
The Company will provide each employee with a copy of its Safety Rules, information on hazardous materials, and supply each employee upon request a copy of the Mines Act and Coal Mines Regulation.
The Company shall forward to the Union Safety Chairman the following information:
(a)	A list of toxic and hazardous materials used in the various departments.
(b)	A monthly summary of injuries sustained on the job by employees and statistics pertaining thereto.
(c)	Records of work-related first aid treatments received by employees.
(d)	The Company and the Union shall provide each other with copies cf reports, correspondence, etc., to the Provincial Mines Inspectorconcerningsafety-relateddispute(s) or accident(s) and will also advise each other on other appropriate safety-related matters and provide any followup correspondence.
8.11
(a) The Company will familiarize the Union Safety Chairman, and upon request, other appropriate safety representatives, with the equipment and techniques of sampling and analysis for potentially toxic substances monitored by the Company. He/they will also be instructed in the techniques of monitoring for subsidence in the mine spoil.
19
(b)	It is recognized that there may be other areas where it would be mutually desirable for the Union Safety Chairman and Safety Representatives to be made familiar with other safety techniques in use at the property. Both parties agree to discuss such matters in a co-operative and reasonable manner.
(c)	Such familiarization will be done on Company time with no loss of pay when conducted during the employee's regular shift or if such familiarization is on off shifts only straight time rates would apply.
8.12	The Company shall provide all supervisorswith St. John Ambulance Standard First Aid Training and general knowledge of equipment hazards and hazardous conditions in the working areas.
8.13	Personal Protective Equipment
The Company shall continue to furnish protective equipment and other safety devices in accordance with the present policy subject to such improvements or changes as may be implemented from time to time.
The frequency of issue and replacement of personal protective equipment shall be determined by Company Policy in effect. Each department will familiarize all employees as to the personal protective equipment provided in their area.
The steel-toed safety footwear rebate shall be 50%.
8.14	Medicals
Employees on 5 and 2 (Monday through Friday) steady day shift schedule shall be given paid leave to obtain re-medicals required by the Mines Act. Such leave shall start one hour prior to the examination appointment time but no earlier than two (2) hours prior to the end of the shift. Transportation is the employee's responsibility.
8.15	If the Company does not accept a medical certificate produced by an employee, or has cause to suspect a physical condition of an employee, the Company may require said
20
employee to undergo an examination by a medical practitioner named by the Company. The Company will pay for the cost of this required examination and under no circumstances shall an employee suffer a loss of pay.
8.16	An employee who is injured on the job will have his normal earnings maintained for the balance of his scheduled shift on the date of the injury.
8.17	Environment
The Company and the Union affirm their joint objective of achieving a work environment in the Company's operations and a general environment in the communities which these operations affect, which is pollution-free to the extent practical, recognizing the nature of the Company's industrial operations.
ARTICLE 9. HOURS OF WORK
9.01	This Article is intended to define the normal hours of work and shall not be construed as any guarantee of work or pay or of hours of work per day, or per week, or of days of work per week. This Article shall not be considered as any basis for the calculation or payment of overtime which is covered solely by Article 10.
9.02	The regularscheduledworkweekshallconsistof (a)or
(b), accordingto the designation of each classification as specified below:
(a)	thirty-seven and one-half (37'A) hours between midnight on Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Saturday.
(b)	forty (40) hours between midnight on Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Saturday.
9.03	The regular work day shall be seven and one-half (7 Vz) or eight (8) hours of work, depending upon the classification of the employee as specified in marginal paragraph9.02 at the employee's designated working place in a twenty-four (24) hour period. The regular days of work for all employees, except those referred to in the following sections shall be Monday to Friday inclusive.
21
9.04	It is agreed that there are a number of employees required to work on schedules other than five (5) and two (2), Monday through Friday.
9.05	Employees shall be required to work on recognized forty (40) hour schedules, buttheir average weekly hours shall be reducedto thirty-seven and one-half (37%) hours by granting the employee one hundred and twenty (120) hours of paid time off per year (prorated to ten (10) hours per month). The paid time off shall be taken at the convenienceof the Company. Any portion of the one hundred and twenty (120) hours entitlement not taken prior to the end of the calendar year shall be paid for at normal straight time standard hourly rates.
The equivalent hourly rate for the purposes of overtime calculation for employees on the one hundred and seventy-four (174) hour work schedule shall be established by dividing the base monthly salary by one hundred sixty-three (163) hours. A thirty-seven and one-half (37%) hour work week applies to all job classifications except for the following jobs for which a forty (40) hour work week applies:
Janitorial Supervisor Processing Labour Supervisor Warehousing Supervisor Laboratory Supervisor Equipment Training Supervisor Dragline Training Supervisor Drill Training Supervisor Loader Training Supervisor Shovel Training Supervisor Truck Training Supervisor Services Operating Supervisor Tire Shop Supervisor Dewatering Supervisor Road Supervisor
Environmental Services Supervisor Temporary Field Supervisor Pit Supervisor
22
Blasting supervisor Maintenance Supervisor, H.E. Maintenance Supervisor, L.E. Machinist Supervisor Electrical Supervisor Electrical Supervisor (Processing) Welding/Fab Supervisor Carpenter Supervisor Maintenance Supervisor Maintenance Supervisor, Proc. Instr. Field Maintenance Supervisor Pipefitter Supervisor Field Maintenance Supervisor, H.E. Pit Labour Supervisor
9.06
(a)	Employees who are employed in sections of the operations which operate on a continuous basis shall be employed on schedules which average not more than thirty-seven and one-half (37%) or forty (40)hours per week as provided for in marginal paragraph 9.02 above.
(b)	The Union agrees to jointly apply with the Company to the appropriate legislative body under the provisions of the "Hours of Work Act" and to make such other applications that may be required under the provisions of any other relevant statute or regulation for the approval of schedules put into effect by the Company for this operation where it is necessary to comply with such statute or regulation.
9.07
(a) The sixth workday in a workweek, occurring everytwenty-eight (28) days under the Company's seven (7) and three (3) continuous operations schedule, will normally besched-uled as a regular work day to be worked by the employee concerned and the days so worked will be accumulated as rest days to be taken as time off.
23
(b) The accumulated rest days will be scheduled as time off by the Company in periods of five (5) successive work days. However, if some other arrangements for taking accumulated rest days off can be arrived at by an employee and the Company which is mutually agreeable, this may be done. Accumulated rest days may not exceed nine (9) in number.
9.08	Under no circumstances will an employee lose hours worked in a pay period as a result of the Company changing his work schedule.
ARTICLE 10. OVERTIME RATES
10.01	Overtime work by an employee must be authorized by the Company. Overtime for work performed as outlined herein shall be paid at the following rate:
(a)	Work in excess of the normal hours of work as defined in Article 9, will receive payment at one and one-half (1 Vz) times the equivalent hourly rate for each overtime hour worked.
(b)	Overtime which is in excess of six (6) hours overtime during an employee's work period shall be paid at two (2) times the equivalent hourly rate for each overtime hour worked. Overtime which is in excess of eight (8) hours overtime shall be on a voluntary basis with the exception that in any continuous operation where a qualified replacement is not available, the employee may be required to remain at work.
10.02	The initial eight (8) hours overtime in a work period is subject to the following conditions:
(a)	where urgent or necessary relief work is essential to the continuance of the ordinary working of the mine, but only on an occasional basis and not, in any case, for a longer period than sixteen (16) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period;
OR
24
(b)
where an emergency exists where life or property is in danger;
OR
(c)	where there is a necessity for a periodic change of shift.
10.03	The work period shall be defined as an employee's complete period of days starting with his first scheduled work day and concluding at the end his last scheduled rest day.
10.04	For the purposes of this Agreement, equivalent hourly rate is defined as the base monthly salary divided by one hundred sixty-three (163) hours or one hundred seventy-four (174) hours, as appropriate.
Note: For the purposes of calculating overtime for employees who are required to work a one hundred seventyfour (174) hour per month schedule, the equivalent hourly rate shall be established by dividing the base monthly salary by one hundred sixty-three (163) hours.
10.05	If mutually agreed, an employee may elect to receive time off in lieu of overtime pay. Where an employee elects to receive time off in lieu of payment for overtime hours worked, he shall receive no payment for the overtime hours worked but at a time convenient to the operation shall receive one hour off, with pay at straight time rates, for each overtime hour worked.
10.06	Overtime rates shall be paid for work performed by employees on their regularly assigned days cff duty including relief days where such relief days occur on a fixed basis and are not banked.
10.07	Change of Work Schedule
Where the Company changes an employee's work schedule during a work period and the employee is required to work in excess of his normal work day of his previous schedule or on the rest days of his previous schedule, he shall be paid overtime rates for that time worked. The new schedule will become the employee's regular schedule at the conclusion of the rest days of his previous schedule.
25
10.08	Where the Company changes an employee's work shift with the result that the employee has a short change which is not a normal part of a work schedule, the employee shall be paid overtime rates for the hours worked of the second shift which are within the same work day as the first shift.
10.09	Call Out
If an employee is called out to work at a time other than the beginning a his regular shift he shall receive either overtime rates for the time actually worked outside of his scheduled work shift or four (4) hours pay at his base rate, whichever is the greater. The four (4) hours minimum does not apply however, when the call out overtime continues into the employee's regular work or if the employee is called back to work before leaving the premises.
10.10	Eight (8) Hour Rest Period
An employee who is called out to work more than four (4) hours in advance of the beginning of his next regular shift, or who performs overtime work in a work day and which work does not result from a shift change, shall be entitled to an eight (8) hour rest period commencing at the time the actual overtime work assignment is completed. If his regular shift is scheduled to commence before the expiration of this rest period, he will be permittedto remain at rest for said period and will be paid his regular rate for the hours of his regular shift which fall within said rest period and for the remainder of his regular shift which he works, he will also receive his regular rate of pay. Where an employee is directed by his supervisor or elects to work on that part of his said regular shift which falls within the said rest period, he shall be paid the applicable overtime rates. If the employee is not so directed or elects not to work he will remain at rest for the eight (8) hour rest period.
10.11	Reporting Pay
(a)	When an employee reports on any assigned shift and is sent home because no work is available, or so that he may come to work at a later time, he shall be paid four (4)
26
hours at his base rate plus shift premium and weekend premium if applicable for reporting. If he is assigned to work at a later time he shall be paid straight time for such work up to eight (8) hours in that work day.
(b)	These provisions shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work for more than one (1) work day and fails before reporting to work to notify his supervisor of his intention to return to work.
(c)	Any employee who works four (4) hours or more in a work day and is sent home so that he may come to work at a later time in that work day shall receive overtime rates for all work performed at such later time.
10.12	An employee who supervises a crew on the continuous Mine Production relief schedule shall be paid a premium of sixteen dollars ($16) for each complete work day worked. In the event that on occasion the relief to relief system requires longer than forty (40) minutes to effect, applicable overtime rates of pay shall apply.
10.13	When an employee works continuously more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours he shall be entitled to a ten (10) hour rest period. If his regular shift is scheduled to commence before the expiration of this rest period, he will be permitted to remain at rest for said period and will be paid his regular rate for the hours of his regular shift which fall within said rest period and for the remainder of his regular shift which he works, he will also receive his regular rate of pay. Where an employee is directed by his supervisor to work on that part of his said regular shift which falls within the said rest period, he shall be paid the appropriateovertime rate for all work performed on his said regular shift. If not so directed, the employee will remain at rest for a ten (10) hour period.
ARTICLE 11. STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
11.01	The following days will be observed as statutory holidays; New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, first Monday in August, Labour Day, Thanksgiving
27
Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, plus two (2) floating statutory holidays.
(a)	To qualify for a Floating Statutory Holiday, an employee must have had at least one hundred and fifty (150) days continuous service with the Company immediately prior to the holiday.
(b)	In situations involving transfers into or between the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 and U.S.W.A., Local 7884 the total annual Statutory Holidays and Floating Statutory Holiday entitlement for such transferred employees will be no more or less than twelve (12).
11.02	An employee who is required to work on a statutory holiday or a day that is declared in lieu of a statutory holiday will be paid as follows:
(a)	If the holiday falls on a scheduled day of rest, he will receive two and one-half (2%) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked, or
One and one-half (IV2) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked plus equal time off with pay at the convenience of the operation.
(b)	If the holiday falls on a normal work day, he will receive one and one-half (1 Vz) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked, or
One-half (V2) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked plus equal time off with pay at the convenience of the operation.
If an employee works more than eight (8) hours, he will be paid two and one-half (2%) times his equivalent hourly rate for those hours worked which are in excess of eight (8) hours on such work day.
Marginal paragraph 11.02 applies only to time worked on the day designated by the Company as foe statutory holiday.
28
11.03	Employees who do not work on a statutory holiday will receive normal pay subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a)	An employee who has been assigned to work on a statutory holiday and does not work shall not receive any pay for the holiday under this Article.
(b)	An employee who is absent without leave on the last work day immediately preceding the statutory holiday or the first work day immediately following the statutory holiday according to the work schedule to which he is assigned, shall not receive any payment for the statutory holiday.
(c)	If a statutory holiday occurs during the employee's vacation as provided in the Agreement and if the employee would normally have been paid for the statutory holiday had he not been on vacation, such employee shall be given an additional day's vacation with pay for each statutory holiday occurring during the vacation.
(d)	If a statutory holiday falls on the employee's day of rest, the employee shall receive an additional day offwith pay at a time mutually agreed upon between the Company and the employee. If no mutually suitable day has been agreed upon within ninety (90) days of such holiday, the Company shall designate such day.
(e)	Marginal paragraph 11.03 (a), (c) and (d) will not apply to the floating statutory holiday. The floating statutory holiday may be taken at any time convenientto the operation.
ARTICLE 12. SALARIES
12.01	All salaries shall be detailed in Appendix "A".
12.02	The Company shall maintain the U.S.W.A., Local9702 Job Group 32, Step 3, Schedule "A salary at a minimum of $200.00 per month higherthan the average certified journeyman tradesman base rate of pay. Any future adjustment to Job Group 32, Step 3, Schedule "A" for this purpose will be applied uniformly to all U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Step 3 salaries.
29
/
Coincident with the above all Step 3 salaries will hereafter indicate the standard for the job group and as such any present and future adjustments will be applied to the Step 3 salary only. Step I and Step 2 salary levels will be maintained as follows:
(a)	Step I to equal 92.5% of Step 3
(b)	Step 2 to equal 95% of Step 3
12.03	Salaried Job Evaluation
All jobs will be rated by a Joint Job Evaluation Committee under one of the following job evaluation systems:
(a)	U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Office Staff
(b)	U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Technical/Supervisory Staff
The Joint Job Evaluation Committee will have the primary purpose of evaluating all eligible jobs.
Appendix “B” sets out the policies and procedures for the evaluation of all U.S.W.A., Local 9702 jobs during the term of this Agreement.
12.04	Employees, upon request in writing, may have their wages deposited in any bank or credit union in British Columbia or Alberta or can receive it by cheque.
13.01	The following premiums shall be paid to an employee who is required to work regularly on the following schedules:
5 and 2 - two shifts
ARTICLE 13. PREMIUMS
(')
(ii)
(iii)	steady afternoons
10 and 4 steady day shift
10 and 4 - two shifts
(i) 
$60.00/month
30
Continuous operation - 3 shifts 4&4 schedule
(i)	steady day shift
(ii)	days/nights
$IOO.OO/month
$l30.00/month
$!30.00/month
These premiums shall be prorated and payable in cases of temporary transfers.
Premiums will be paid on a prorated basis in accordance with the existing premium structure should the Company implement a new schedule.
13.02	Supervisor’s Allowance
The Supervisor’s Allowance shall be 4% of Step 3 of the individual's Job Group per month to be paid to any employee who is required to carry out preparatory planningand reporting prior to and following the normal hours of work of the work force as an integral part of their supervisory duties.
This allowance will be reduced on a prorated basis for any period of absence from the job exceeding two (2) weeks in duration, with the exception of paid annual vacations.
Applicable overtime rates will be paid to any supervisor in receipt of this allowance who is directed by the Company to commence work for a period of time in excess of twenty (20) minutes prior to the start of his regular scheduled shift.
13.03	On Call
An employee required to standby for a possible call into work shall be paid a premium of $12.00 for each shift on call. If called out to work, pay will be in accordance with marginal paragraphs 10.08 and 10.09.
13.04	On call shall be voluntary except as provided in the following:
(a) where urgent, work may be necessary to the continuance of the operation;
(c)	where an employee normally scheduled to be on shift to cover a given skill is absent with no qualified replacement available.
13.05	Emergency Rescue Team Premiums
Active, regularly practicing members of the Emergency Rescue Teams shall be paid the sum of forty-five dollars ($45.00) per month, and the Shift Emergency Rescue Team Captains shall be paid the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per month. The time spent in practice by such members shall be considered as time worked.
13.06	Under no circumstances shall there be pyramiding or compounding of premiums.
ARTICLE 14. SENIORITY
14.01
(a)	Seniority shall be established on the basis of the employee's service with the Company whether broken or continuous, according to the records of the Personnel Function.
(b)	A Technicianor Supervisory employee shall not be deemed to have any seniority in the operation until he has been regularly employed in the operation for ninety (90) calendar days.
(c)	An Office Staff employee shall not be deemed to have any seniority in the operation until he has been regularly employed in the operation for sixty (60) calendar days.
14.02	Probationary Period
(a)	Notwithstandinganything in this Agreement, Technicians and Supervisory employees shall be on probation for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of last hiring by the Company, provided, however, that such employee has worked four hundred and eighty-seven and one-half (487%) working hours (if he has not worked four hundred and eighty-seven and one-half (487%) working hours the probation period shall be extended until he has completed
32
four hundred and eighty-seven and one-half (487%) working hours).
(b)	Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, Office Staff employees shall be on probation for a period of sixty (60) days from the date of last hiring by the Company, provided, however, that such employee has worked three hundred and sixty (360) working hours (if he has not worked three hundred and sixty (360) working hours the probation period shall be extended until he has completed three hundred and sixty (360) working hours).
(c)	The parties recognize that probationary employees are, during the probationary period, employed on a trial basis and are subject to dismissal for a lesser cause. Union activity shall not be considered as a reason for discharge under this Section. This clause shall not apply to an employee who is rehiredwithin ninety (90)days of severance.
14.03	Upon completion of his probationary period the employee shall have his name placed on the seniority list effective from the date of his employment.
14.04	Employees originally hired by the Company for a special assignment of work may be released when employment at such special assignment of work comes to an end, notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary. Within two (2) weeks the Union shall be notified in writing of such employees and their status. Employees shall not be continued as special assignment employees for a continuous period of time longer than twelve (12) months.
14.05
(a) The Company shall have the right from time to time to select or accept persons for the purpose of giving them special experience or training at jobs within the U.S.W.A. 9702 unit in preparing them or trying out their capabilities for other or broader assignments with the Company, or for future service outside the Company, so long as such special training does not reduce job posting opportunities
33
or cause displacement or demotion of employees. The provisions of this Agreement shall not apply to these persons during such training. The number of such persons shall not exceed 5% of the number of employees.
(b)	The Company may offer such special experience or training to employees for the same purpose as in (a) above and would be able to direct their training free from any limitations in this Agreement.
14.06	Students employed during the regular holiday period of the educational institution to which they have been admitted or are attending shall be deemed to be temporary employees. During this period students may be assigned to positions of a temporary nature as the Company requirements dictate, provided that such assignment does not result in the demotion or displacement of any employee or would result in the filling of a job vacancy that would normally be posted. In the case of a general reduction in crew at the operation, students shall be laid off tjefore regular employees. In the event of a student’s employmenton the student roll is terminated but he is rehired by the Company with no break in service, then the time spent on the student roll from the last date of hire shall be considered as continuous service with the Company with respect to the probationary period.
14.07	The Company shall have the right to transfer any person in its employ at the operation covered by this Agreement who has served in a classification as defined in Appendix " A to a job classification within the definition and to assign to him a job at the operation commensurate with his qualifications provided that such assignment does not resultinthe displacement of any current job incumbent. Such a person transferred into the unit shall not be eligible to bid on a job for a period of ninety (90) days following his entry into the unit.
14.08	Periodsspent by an employee serving with His Majesty’s Forces, in World War II if entered the employ of the Company within the three (3) month period after his dischargefrom such forces, and a former employee who after July 5, 1950
34
and before July 1, 1955, left the Company’s employ to serve as a member of the Special or Regular Forces of Canada, on his return to the Company’s employ, if he is then covered by the Veterans Benefit Act, 1954, shall be considered as service with the Company for the purpose of establishing seniority.
14.09	Reductions in Work Force
(a)	Permanent or Indefinite
In the event of a general reduction of work force, other than those of a temporary or emergency nature, employees shall be laid off in the inverse order of Company seniority provided that those senior employees being retained meet the requirements cf the operation and can satisfactorily perform the required work.
In the event of a permanent or indefinite layoff, the employee may use his Company seniority to claim any job classification listed in Appendix "A, rovided he can satisfactorily perform the required work and does not displace a more senior employee.
An employee who requires a period of familiarization on his new job will be given a period of up to ten (10) days or longer, as deemed necessary by the Company, to meet an acceptable standard of performance.
The Union and the employees concernedshall be notified, whenever possible, thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date of such layoff or as provided in the Employment Standards Act, whichever is the greater.
In the event of a general reduction of work force, the Union Local President, Vice President, Recording Secretary, Financial Secretary, Shop Stewards and Safety Representatives shall be the last employees to be laid off, provided they have completed their probationary period and can satisfactorily perform the required work.
(b)	Temporary or Emergency Layoff/Shutdown
(j) In the event that the operation or a part of the operation is shut down for a temporary period of time (not 35
exceeding eight (8) calendar days) employees will be laid off in the inverse order of their job classification seniority.
(ii)	In the event that the operation or a part of the operation is shut down for a temporary period of time (exceeding eight (8) calendar days, but not exceeding thirty (30) calendar days) employees will be laid cff in the inverse order of their bargaining unit seniority within their department, provided they can satisfactorily perform the required work.
(iii)	Employeeswho are temporarily laidcffwill be recalled in the inverse order in which they were laid cff and shall retain all benefits including statutory holidays and continue to accrue seniority during the time of temporary layoff.
(c)	Reduction of Manpower or Equipment
(i)	In the event that the Company reduces the equipment or manpower required in a department, employees affected by the reduction will first move to displace less senior employees within the department, provided they can satisfactorily perform the required work. The employee may then use his Company seniority to claim a job in another department provided he does not displace a more senior employee and can satisfactorily perform required work.
(ii)	An employee who requires a period of familiarization or retraining on his new job will be given a period of up to ten (10) days or longer, as deemed necessary by the Company to meet an acceptable standard of performance.
14.10 Recall
(a) Ifan employee is laid off as part of a general reductionof work force, he shall have preferential rights (hereinafter called “recall rights”) for rehiringfor jobs in the bargaining unit. These recall rights shall not exceed two (2) years
36
from the date of last layoff, and recall shall be in accordance with employee seniority provided that such employees are able to satisfactorily perform the work which has become available.
(b) Those former employees who qualify for recall shall be notified by the Company by double registered mail at their last known address when a vacancy exists. It shall be the responsibilityof the laid-off employees to notify the Personnel representative of any changes in their postal addresses. The recalled employees must notify the Company of their intention to return to work within seven (7) days of the receipt of the recall notice and must return to work within fourteen (14) days of such date or make alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Company. The Company shall not be required to rehire at any time any person who failed to acknowledge within the said seven (7) day period the notification to return to work.
14.1-1 An employee who has completed his probationary period at the time he is laid off shall not be required to serve a probationary period upon rehire if he is rehiredwithin the twenty-four (24) month recall period as defined in marginal paragraph 14.10(a) above.
14.12 A probationary employee who is laid off and rehired within twenty-four (24) months pursuant to marginal paragraph 14.10(a) shall, for the purpose of marginal paragraph 14.02, be credited with the period of time he had been a probationary employee prior to layoff.
ARTICLE 15. POSTINGS, PROMOTIONS, DEMOTIONS AND TRANSFERS
15.01	Vacancies
Temporary Vacancies shall be defined as a permanent job temporarily vacated for any reason or a job created by the Company for a specific purpose(s) and a specific period of time.
37
Permanent Vacancies shall be defined as an established job which is permanently vacated by an employee or a newly created permanent job.
15.02	Vacancies to be Posted
All jobs that are vacant for thirty (30) calendar days or more shall be posted.
15.03	Job Posting Procedure
(a)	Vacant positions which are to be posted shall be on job posting forms and shall contain the following:
(1)	Job Title
(2)	Job Group
(3)	Department (Area)
(4)	Present Shift (may be changed as required)
(5)	Length of Job Vacancy (temporary or permanent)
(6)	Brief Description of Vacancy
(b)	Job Postings shall be posted on 9702 bulletin boards for nine (9) calendar days.
(c)	Within fourteen (14) calendar days of the posting being closed, the successful applicant shall be selected and his name shall be posted. All employees who applied for the vacancy will be advised of the disposition of their application.
(d)	Within thirty (30) calendar days of being selected, the successful applicant shall occupy his new job at the new salary or rate of pay as per Appendix "A— Salaries.
(e)	An employee who bids to a temporary job vacancy shall upon termination of the same return to his previousjob or equivalent.
(f)	An employee who will be absent due to vacation or authorized leave who wishes to be considered for a job which may become vacant during such absence maycom-plete a job posting application and forward it to the Personnel department prior to taking such vacation or leave. Ifthe position applied for becomes vacant the Personnel department shall include that application with others who apply for the position.
38
15.04	Selection Procedure
(a)	It is understood that no person shall be hired until such time as it has been established through the job posting procedure that there is no employee available who is qualified for such position.
Local 9702 Bargaining Unit employees who have applied to a job posting shall be given first consideration.
(b)	Incases of transfers, promotionsand placementsto lower job groups, the Company shall considerthe following two (2) factors in determining which employee(s) shall receive the transfer, promotion, or placement to the lower job group:
(i)	the seniority of each employee concerned, and
(ii)	the ability, qualifications and experience of each employee concerned.
When factor (ii) is relatively equal between two (2) or more employees, the employee having the greater seniority shall be entitled to preference. The qualifications of employees shall be determined in a fair and equitable manner.
Note:	It is recognized that qualifications for jobs once
established, would not change unless the job content or the job standard change.
(c)	The selection of supervisorswill be as per marginal paragraph 4.04 of the Agreement.
(d)	An employee, who is an unsuccessful applicant for a job posting, may request a meeting to discuss the disposition of his application.
(e)	If as a result of the Company awarding a bid position a dispute arises, no employee shall occupy that position on a permanent basis until the dispute is settled. Such a dispute shall be decided in expedited arbitration (Section 112).
39
15.05	All persons hired to fill a permanentjob within the unit will be placed on salaried rolls immediately. Such person shall not be eligible for a promotion unlessthe probationperiod has been completed.
15.06
(a)	An employee desiring a change in shift or work group assignment for personal reasons shall make the same known to his supervisor by filling out duplicate transfer request forms. The supervisor shall award the change on the basis of seniority as vacancies occur provided it does not interfere with the efficiency of the operations
(b)	For the purposes of the above only: An assignment is a situation where there is no significant change in job duties or any change injob group. An assignmentfrom one job to another involving no change in job group shall not be considered as a transfer, promotion or demotion. A transfer situation involvesinter-departmentalmoveswhere there is a significant change in job content.
15.07
(a) When the Company temporarily promotes a person covered by a Collective Agreement to a position within the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Bargaining Unitto fill a vacancy of twenty-nine (29) calendar days or less resulting from holidays, illness, or short-term abnormal requirements, such person is not covered by this CollectiveAgreement, but he shall continue to be covered by the Collective Agreement applicable to the Unit from which he was promoted save and except for wage rates. The wage rate paid will be the Step 1 rate applicable to the position included in the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Bargaining Unit. Such person shall not remain in a Local 9702 Bargaining Unit job position in excess of one hundred (100) working days in aggregate in a calendar year.
Note:	NotwithstandingArtide 15.02, the above time lim-
its may be extended by mutual consent.
40
(b) When the Company temporarily employs a person not covered by a Collective Agreement to a position within theU.S.W.A., Local9702 Bargaining Unit, such person is not covered by this Collective Agreement, save and except for wage rates. The wage rate paid will be the Step 1 rate applicable to the position included in the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Bargaining Unit. Such person shall not remain inaU.S.W.A., Local 9702 job positionfor a continuous period exceeding five (5) working days, except where by mutual consent it has been agreed that the person should or should not be covered by the Collective Agreement or where the job has been posted as a temporary job vacancy as per marginal paragraphsl 5.01 and 15.02.
15.08
(a)	An employee who has been partially disabled as a result of an accident or industrial disease within the meaning of the Workers' Compensation Act, incurred in the course of his employment with the Company, shall be given preference over other employees for employment in any job for which he has the necessary qualifications,whether or not a vacancy exists. The Company may, in consultation with the Union, extend this privilege to an employee who becomes disabled from any other cause.
(b)	If an employee is the incumbent of a job before the job is made available by the Company under this Section for partially disabled employees, he shall, upon being replaced in that job by a partially disabled employee, have his rate of pay maintained at a rate not less than the rate cf the job from which he was moved.
15.09	Temporary Job Assignment and Rate of Pay
If an employee is temporarily assigned to a higher paying job within the unit due to illness, vacation, etc., of another employee he will be paid a temporary rate for the job for the full period of such assignment. The temporary rate will be an increase of five (5) percent of his present salary provided, 41
however, that if the resulting salary falls outside the range of
the job group in which he is relieving he will be paid either:
(i)	The minimum (Step 1) rate of the job if the five percent (5%) increase results in a rate which is lower than the minimum (Step 1) rate for the job.
(ii)	The maximum (Step 3) rate of the job if the five percent (5%) increase results in a rate which is higher than the maximum rate for the job.
An employee who is temporarily assigned to a lower rated job
will retain his current salary during this period.
15.10	Temporary Assignment Which Changes to a Temporary Job Vacancy
(a)	An employee on temporary assignment shall upon termination of the same, return to nis previous job or the equivalent. Temporary assignments shall not exceed thirty (30) calendar days. If it becomes apparent that the temporary assignment will extend beyond the thirty (30) calendar day period due to sickness or accident, the Company shall post the position as a temporary job vacancy unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Company and the Union.
(b)	Employees who have been assigned to any job which changes to a permanent or temporary job vacancy shall not be considered to have an advantage over other more senior qualified employees who apply for the permanent or temporary vacancy.
(c)	Persons employed to fill temporary vacancies shall be covered by the Collective Agreement save and except for the following:
(i)	Probationary Period
The probationary period under marginal paragraph
14.02	in this Collective Agreement must be served each time persons are employed to fill a temporary vacancy.
42
(ii)	Job Postings
Persons hired as temporary employees, who are the successful applicant for a job posting, shall be required unless mutually agreed otherwise to fulfill the tenure of their present temporary position before being assignedto their new positions. Such agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(iii)	Vacation pay at 4% of the temporary employee's earnings shall be paid at the end of the temporary vacancy, or when the temporary employee is terminated.
(iv)	Bereavement Leave as defined in marginal paragraph
19.01	and Jury Duty/Witness Pay as defined in marginal paragraph 20.01 will become available upon completion of the probationary period as defined above.
(v)	The medical plans in marginal paragraph 22.02 will be made available on the first of the month following completion of the probationary period.
(vi)	Basic Life Insurance as outlined in marginal paragraph 22.05 shall be immediately available, however, optional coverage shall not be available unless the temporary employee becomes a full time employee.
(vii)	The Optical Plan benefits provided for in marginal paragraph22.07 shall be available upon completion of the probationary period.
15.11	Temporary Job Which Changes to a Permanent Job
If, for whatever reason, such temporary job assumes permanent status, the employee occupying the job shall be confirmed in the position on a permanent basis.
15.12	Return of Absent Employee
When an employee is absent from his normal job because of sickness or accident he shall, on his return, be reinstated in the job he held. During such absence, his seniority shall accumulate as if he had not been so absent. This privilege will also 43
be extended to employees, including Union Officers, returning to work from a leave authorized by the Company.
15.13	Where an employee is to be placed in a lower job group for reasons not attributable to the employee, the following Rate Protection will apply:
(a)	Upon being placed in the position, the employee will retain his current salary.
(b)	If the employee's salary is within the salary range of the lower job group, he will receive such general increases as accrue to his new group.
(c)	If the employee's salary is above the standard of the new job group, he will receive general increases only to the extent that the revised standard for his new group exceeds his present salary.
ARTICLE 16. TRAINING
16.01	The Company and the Union mutually recognize the importance and necessity of assisting employees to improve their skills and knowledge so that they may keep abreast of technological advances, have opportunity for advancement and maintain credentials required by the Company. It is acknowledged that both the employee and the Company have responsibilities in advancing the employee's knowledge and skills in order to meet the Company's needs in these areas. Employees who are enrolled in training programs required by the Company, which may include programs sponsored by government agencies, shall have their normal salaries maintained. Employees required by the Company to take additional training at times other than their regular hours of work shall be paid at their regular equivalent hourly rate for such time, which time will not be considered as time worked for any purpose under this Agreement. Should an employee fail to complete a training program and/or fail to pass the examination at the end cf his training and is subsequently permitted to repeatthe training, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the employee as provided herein while he is repeating his training. In order to
44
assist older employees to adapt to technological change and to learn new methods, the Company will endeavour, whenever possible, to give older employees preference for training to assist them to compete on an equal basis for promotions and new jobs with younger employees.
16.02	Employees affected by technological change will be given prior consideration for training to fill job openings providing that such employees have the necessary ability to do the job and are willing to participate fully in the training. Should the required training not accommodate all employees affected by such change, training will be offered in accordancewith the principles of marginal paragraph 15.04(b). On successful completion of training, placementtofill the jobs shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Collective Agreement.
16.03	Trades Committee
A committee will be appointed consisting of two (2) employees representing the U.S.W.A., Local 7884 Union, one (1) employee representing the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Union and three (3) representatives of the Company.The Company will reimburse employees who may lose time from their normal work as a result of acting as Union representatives on the committee at straight time rates to a maximum of eight (8) hours in a day. This paragraph will also apply to time spent off the property to attend meetings called by the Company and do committeework as authorized by the Company Co-chairman. Requests for off property trades committee work will not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE 17. ANNUAL VACATIONS
17.01	An employee who has been in the service of the Company less than one year prior to the first day of January in any year shall be entitled to a vacation and leave with pay as follows:
(a) If hired between January 1st and August 31st inclusive of the previous year, ten (10) working days off with pay.
45
(b)	Ifhired between September 1st and December31st inclusive of the previous year, five (5) working days off with pay, plus five (5) unpaid work days off if requested.
17.02	An employee shall be entitled to a vacation with pay as follows:
Complete Yrs/Service	Days of
As of the 1st Day of Vacation With Plateau January in Any Year Pay Entitlement Years
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
12
15	3 weeks
15
16
17
18
19
20	4 weeks 20
21 21 22 22 23
23
24
24
25	5 weeks
25
26 26 27
27
28 28 29
29
30	6 weeks
46
The word “pay” shall mean remuneration for eight (8) hour days of vacation, as the case may require, at the days of vacation, as the case may require, at the employee's regular base rate of pay during the calendar month immediately preceding the vacation.
17.03	Employees entitled to ten (10) or more working days paid vacation may split their vacation subject to the approval of their supervisor.
17.04	If an employee has been absent from work without pay during the preceding calendar year for any reason other than the employee's sickness or accident, or maternity leave, the periods of vacation with pay, as specified in the above paragraphs, shall be reduced by 1124th for each full pay period by which the absence exceeds thirty (30) consecutive days: provided, however, that in the case of sickness the employee will not be entitled to any vacation with pay after the absence exceeds twelve (12) consecutive months.
17.05	Vacation Scheduling
The Company retainsthe right to schedule all or any vacations. Vacations which have been scheduled and approved and are subsequently cancelled at the convenience of the Company may be rescheduled within a twelve (12) month period. An employee who has scheduled a vacation period and is unable to take it because of sickness or accident may, upon notification to his Supervisor, postpone such vacation provided that such vacation can be rescheduled within the succeeding twelve (12) month period.
Upon receipt of proof of loss the Company shall reimburse an employee for reservation deposits lost as a result of his vacation being re-scheduled by the Company, provided the employee has made arrangementsthrough his supervisorto have the vacation time off and makes the supervisor aware in writing at the time the vacation is rescheduled of the deposits the employee will lose as a result of the re-scheduling.
47
17.06	Vacation Adjustment
A vacation adjustment will be implemented, in addition to the vacation entitlements listed above, as follows. In those years that an employee first achieves the vacation plateaus of each of the three (3), four (4), five (5) and six (6)weeks of vacation with pay, such employee shall be entitledto a vacation adjust: ment equivalentto 0.208 days, with pay for each full one-half (.5) month of service between his date of last hire with the Company and December 31st of that same year. The time entitlement shall be rounded off to the nearest full day.
17.07	Unpaid Leave
An employee shall be entitled to unpaid Leave of Absence as the last portionof his annual vacationfor the purpose of rounding-out his work period (as defined in marginal paragraph 10.02) subject to the following conditions:
(a)	An employee who is employed on the 7&3 continuous operations schedule shall be entitled to a maximum of two (2) days unpaid Leave of Absence to be taken as the last portion of each vacation week.
(b)	Employees on any work schedule shall be entitled to unpaid Leave of Absence as the last portion of their final vacation period.
NOTE: This entitlement shall only apply if the employee has scheduled such entitlement with his annual vacation prior to April 1st of the vacation year.
Where an employee has not scheduled this entitlement and wishes to at a later time, the employee shall make such request to his immediate supervisor before the start of such vacation period. Approval in such cases shall be subject to the efficiency of the operations.
17.08	Seasonal Vacation Bonus
Employees who take their vacations between January 15th and April 30th, shall receive a seasonal vacation bonus equiv-
48
alent to eight (8) hours pay for each complete forty (40) hour paid vacation week taken.
17.09	In the event a plant is shut down for vacation purposes, employees will be required to take their vacation during the shutdown. Employees who do not have sufficient vacation to cover the shutdown period will receive first consideration for available work if they have the necessary qualifications. In exceptional circumstances this privilege will be extended to other employees who are qualified to perform the available work.
17.10	Employees will not be permitted to take cash in lieu of earned vacations or any portion thereof. An exception of this rule will occur only in the case of severance from the Company's rolls, or retirement to pension.
ARTICLE 18. SPECIAL VACATIONS
18.01	Effective January 1, 1979, employees with five (5) years or more of service who did not previously qualify for Special Vacation will be entitled to a Special Vacation of three (3) weeks in addition to their normal vacation entitlementto be taken within the five (5) year period ending December 31, 1983. During each subsequent five (5) year qualifying period these employees shall become eligible for a further three (3) weeks of Special Vacation.
Employees who complete their five (5) years of service after January 1, 1979, shall be eligible for this program during the five (5) year period commencing with the January 1 st following the year in which they complete five (5) years service and during each subsequent five (5) year qualifying period they shall become eligible for a further three (3) weeks of Special Vacation.
Employees who had attained fifteen (15) years service priorto January 1, 1978 will continue to earn a Special Vacation of three (3) weeks in each five (5) year qualifying period commencing with January 1 st of the year in which they first qualified for Special Vacation.
49
18.02	Special Vacations shall be governed by the following
conditions:
(a)	They shall be taken at times which are suitable to both the Company and employee and must be taken within the designatedfive (5) year period. In the event the previously scheduled and agreed to Special Vacation period is cancelled by the Company during the final year of the five (5) year period, the employee will receive a one (1) year extension from the date of cancellation in which to reschedule the Special Vacation.
(b)	The allocation of regular vacations shall have priority over the allocation of Special Vacations.
(c)	In determining the length of a Special Vacation, a week shall mean a work week as defined in marginal paragraph 9.02. If a Statutory Holiday falls within the period and the employee concerned would have become entitled to pay for such holiday not worked, if he had not been on Special Vacation, the Special Vacation period shall be extended by seven and one-half (7%) hours or eight (8) hours with pay or the day will be banked and taken at a time mutually convenientto the Company and employee.
(d)	Special Vacation pay shall be computed on the basis of thirty-seven and one-half (371/a) hours or forty (40) hours of remuneration per week based on the employee'sregu-lar base rate or the base rate on which the employee worked the majorityof the time during the calendar month immediately preceding the Special Vacation.
(e)	On retirement an employee shall receive pay for any unused Special Vacation plus payment for the full allotment for which he is currently qualifying.
(f)	On death, pay for any unused Special Vacation to which an employee would have been entitled plus a pro rata payment towards his next Special Vacation allotment shall be paid to his estate.
50
(g)	If an employee leaves the service of the Company or his employment is terminated during any five (5) year qualifying period, he shall receive pay for any unused Special Vacation to which he is entitled plus a pro rata payment towards his next Special Vacation allotment.
(h)	Absences from work during a qualifying period for reasons of sickness or accident in excess of twelve (12) months or for any reason other than sickness or accident, or maternity leave in excess of three (3) months will result in proportional reduction of benefits. In the case of absence at the commencement of a Special Vacation qualifying period no allotment will be made until the employee returns to work at which time the allotment will be proportionately reduced.
ARTICLE 19. BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
19.01	On request by an employee, Bereavement Leave with pay shall be granted in the event of death in the employee's immediate family in accordance with the following conditions: One shift, due to the death, and up to an additional three (3) consecutive shifts to attend the funeral of a spouse, child, father or mother, OR
Up to three (3) consecutive shifts to attend the funeral of a mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister or grandparent.
The definition of spouse will include a person of the opposite sex who has lived with the employeefor two (2) or more years where there is a bar to their marriage or at least one (1) year where there is no such bar and the employee and that person have publicly declared themselves as man and wife.
ARTICLE 20. JURY DUTY/WITNESS PAY
20.01	A regular full-time employee who is required to report for jury duty in family court, county court, provincial court, supreme court or coroner's court or who is subpoenaed
51
by the crown to appear as a witness at any proceedings in the aforementioned courts on a work day on which he would normally have worked, will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between his regular base rate of pay and the jury duty pay or witness pay receivedfor that day. Reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of the employee's normal work day or work week. The employee will be required to furnish a certificate of service signed by the Clerk of the Court to the Company before payment is made.
Time paid for jury or witness duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and statutory holidays but will not be counted as hours worked in a work day for the purpose of computing overtime.
ARTICLE 21. MATERNITY LEAVE
21.01	A female employee may apply in writing and shall be granted a maternity Leave of Absence to a maximum of twenty-four (24) consecutive weeks (or less as may be requested by the employee) in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of B.C. (1980).
An additional Leave of Absence, without pay, at the request of the employee because of related medical reasons which are substantiated to the satisfaction of the Company, shall be granted up to a total of six (6) consecutive weeks.
21.02	The employee shall give the Company thirty (30) calendar days notice in writing of the day upon which she intends to commence her leave of absence and shall furnish the Company with the certificate of a legally qualified medical practitioner stating she is pregnant, and the estimated date of delivery.
21.03	An employee who intends to resume employment after maternity leave shall endeavour to give as much notice as possible, but in no case less than one (1) week's notice to her crew or unit supervisor. She must furnish the Company with the certificate of a legally qualified medical practitionerstating she is able to resume full time work. On her return to work the
52
Company shall reinstate the employee to her previous position, or should her former position be redundant, provide her with alternate work at not less than her job group at the time her leave of absence began.
21.04	The period of such leave shall be considered as Company service for seniority and pension purposes, and vacation entitlement with pay only.
21.05	The Company will continue to provide medical, extended health, optical plan, dental and group insurance benefits during the period of leave and the Company shall continue to make payment to the plan in the same manner as if the employee were not absent where:
(a)	the Company pays the total cost of the plan, or
(b)	the employee elects to continue to pay her share of the cost of a plan that is paid for jointly by the Company and the employee.
Basic Sick Leave and Long Term Disability benefits will not be available during the leave.
ARTICLE 22. BENEFITS
22.01	The following employees' benefits program with respect to medical plans, sick leave plans, long term disability plan, group life insurance, dental plan and optical plan shall be in effect during the term of this Agreement.
22.02	Medical Plans
The Company shall pay the entire premium cost per employee per month, if any, for both married and single employees underthe British Columbia Medical Services Plan and the Extended Health Benefit Plan with M.S.A. as licensed carrier. The Company will provide “out-of-Province”medical coverage under the existing medical plan. Premium costs for this coverage will be paid by the Company.
53
22.03	Sick Leave Plans
The Company shall pay the entire cost of plans summarized in this clause. The benefit amounts under both the Basic Sick Leave Plan and the Long Term Disability Plan are designed to •’ provide an employee with a guaranteed level of disability income.
If an employee is also eligible for disability income through Workers' Compensation, the Canada Pension Plan, or similar programs, the benefit amounts under the Company plans will be reduced by the amount of this other income.
(a) Basic Sick Leave Plan
An employee is eligible after three (3) months of continuous service.
Benefits are paid for ninety (90) days.*
—	full salary to the extent of accumulated sick credits
—	partial salary for the balance (if any) of the ninety (90) days.
Sick credits accumulate at the rate of twelve (12) days per year to a maximum of ninety (90) days.*
* If an employee had accumulated more than ninety (90) days prior to February 1, 1968, he is eligible for full salary benefits to the extent of the accumulation.
When an employee has used up his sick credits he shall receive partial salary as set out below:
3 months to 5 years — 40% of salary 5 years to 10 years — 50% of first $1,400 and 40% of balance
over 10 years	— 60% of first $1,400 and 50%
of balance. Minimum benefit is two-thirds (2/3) UIC insurable earnings
22.04	Long Term Disability Plan
An employee is eligible for benefits after three (3) months of continuous service.
54
Benefits commence after all Basic Sick Leave benefits have been used, providing that an employee's disability meets the terms of the insurance policy.
The benefit period is related to service:
—	if an employee has less than ten (10) years service, the benefit period is equal to his service rounded to the next full year. For example, if an employee's service is two (2) years and one (1) month, his benefit period will be three (3) years.
—	if an employee has more than ten (10) years of service his benefit period will extend until he retires.
The benefit amount is also related to service; and is calculated in the same manner as the partial salary amount under the Basic Sick Leave Plan:
3 months to 5 years — 40% of salary 5 to 10 years	— 50% of first $1,400 and 40% of
balance
over 10 years	— 60% of first $1,400 and 50% of
balance
Minimum benefit is two-thirds (2/3) UIC insurable earnings.
22.05	Group Life Insurance
Eligibility
All full time employees are eligible on employment. Coverage for new employees becomes effective on the date of hire. Beneficiaries are as recorded with the Company.
Basic Coverage
An employee's basic coverage life insurance is an amount equal to his current annual salary rounded to the next higher $1,000.00 if not already a multiple of $1,000.00. The entire program for this coverage will be paid by the Company.
Optional Coverage
On date of hire, an employee may purchase additional insurance equal in amount to his Basic Coverage. The Optional
55
coverage will be effective on the first day of the month following the date of hire. This additional coverage is optional, with the monthly cost to the employee, per $1,000.00 coverage, being the average cost of all coverage as determined by claims experience.
Revisions to Optional Coverage
Optional coverage may be cancelled effective the last day of any calendar month, providedsufficient notice is given. Where an employee chooses not to participate when first eligible, or where, after a period of participation, an employee cancels and at a later date wishes to again participate, evidence of insurability satisfactory to the carrier will be required.
To change his coverage, an employee must contact the Personnel Function of the Company and arrange to complete the appropriate authorization card.
Revisions Related to Salary Change
Revisions related to salary change are effective on the first of the following month. When an employee's Basic Coverage is so revised, the Optional Coverage is revised accordingly. Coverage for Retired Employees
Coverage for retired employees is related to final earnings, i.e., a percentage of active Basic Coverage. The monthly premium for this Basic Coverage shall be paid by the Company. Optional coverage is not available. The levels of insurance after retirement are as follows:
Percentages Pre-retirement Age	Basic Coverage
60 to 64
65
66
67
68 69
70 and over
100% 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30%
56
Coverage is reduced by $2,500.00 at age 65 if the employee was age 45 to 55 at hire.
No coverage is available after age 65 if the employee was age 55 or over at hire.
Certificates of Insurance
Each employee will receive a Certificate describing the coverage. Extended Coverage and Disability
Should an employee, prior to age sixty (60) become disabled under the terms of the Policy and be unable to work for a period exceeding six (6) months, the employee's Basic Coverage will be continued subject to normal retirement reductions. In addition, the employee's Optional Coverage will be continued without payment of premium until retirement, as long as the employee provides regular proof of continuing disability.
22.06	Dental Plan
The cost of the Dental Plan will be paid for by the Company. The Dental Plan provides for payment of 100% of the basic services commonly referred to as Plan “ A and 60% of the services commonly referred to as Plan “B”. Employees and their spouse, and unmarried dependant children under the age of twenty-one (21) will be eligible for this coverage on the first of the month following six (6) months of continuous service at Fording Operations.
The Company will provide a dental services plan which will provide for payment of 50% of services commonly referred to as Plan “C” to a lifetime maximum of $1,000 per family.
The Dental Plan will be carried by a commercial insurer and the terms of any such insurance policy will be binding on the employees. The Company's obligation under the Plan is restrictedto payingthe actual premiums charged by the insurer.
22.07	Optical Plan
The Company shall maintain a Vision Care Plan on a costsharing basis of 40% paid by the employee and 60% paid by
57
the Company. The Plan will provide employees and their dependants with 80% of the costafterthe employee has satisfied an annual deductible of $25.00 of medical expenses under the Extended Health Plan of M.S.A. The maximum benefit paid in any two (2) year period will be $60.00.
22.08	Premium Rebates
The employee’s portion of the reduced Unemployment Insurance Commission premiums resulting from registration of the Sickness and Accident Benefit Plan will be directed towards the employee's premium cost of the Vision Care Plan.
ARTICLE 23. PENSION PLAN
23.01	The previousGuaranteedRetirementlncome Planfor salaried employees will continue to apply to the employees under this Agreement until April 30, 1980. Effective May 1, 1980 the above-mentioned plan will be replaced by Sl new “best earnings” plan. For administrative purposes, the Plan is printed in a Separate booklet.
The Company will guarantee that no current employee who is now age 55 or older will receive lower benefits at any time than he or she would haveunderthe present U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Pension Plan. This applies at normal or early retirement, in the case of payment to the widows, or in the case of a deferred paymentto a vested employee who commences his or her pension at age 65.
For either Pension Plan, the definition of “dependent spouse” will include a person of the opposite sex who has lived with the pensioner for two (2) or more years where there is a bar to their marriage or at least one (1) year where there is no such bar and the pensioner and that person have publicly declared themselves as man and wife and have so advised the Company in writing.
ARTICLE 24. ON LOAN
24.01	In the interest of making the most flexible use of the skills available within the Company it is desirable from
58
time to time to loan employees between various operations of the Company on a temporary basis. The following conditions will apply to employees on loan where the employee is required to live away from his normal place of residence:
(a)	All loan assignments shall be voluntary.
(b)	The rate of pay of an employee on loan will be the greater of his regular rate of pay or the rate provided for the job in the Collective Agreement in effect at the receiving operation. If there is no Collective Agreement in effect at the receiving operation, the employee will be paid no less than his regular rate of pay.
(c)	Employees "on loan" will be required to work on one of the schedules in effect at the receiving operation. The duration of a normal work shift and all other provisions of the Collective Agreement in effect at the dispatching operation will prevail.
(d)	Accommodation and board will be selected by and provided at Company expense. Employees will be advised of accommodation and board prior to assignment.
(e)	Transportation will be supplied by the Company. If an employee elects to use his personal car for transportation, he will be reimbursed at the rate per mile which prevails in the Company regulations at the time the assignment is carried out. Such reimbursement will be made for the initial trip and the trip home at the conclusion of the loan assignment.
(e)	Travel time paid in any one day will be limited to eight (8) hours. It is agreed that employees who travel on their rest days will be paid at the applicable overtime rate.
(f)	A loan assignment will be a maximum of five (5) weeks. If an employee elects to remain on loan for a period in excess of five (5) weeks he will be providedwith transportation home after every five (5) weeks on loan.
(g)	A day off with pay shall be granted for each regular work week on loan, and such accumulated leave may be
59
taken before returning to work after conclusion of a loan assignment.
If leave is not taken at the end of the loan assignment, it shall be taken at the convenience of the operation.
(h)	An allowance of fifty dollars ($50.00) per week will be paid to employeeson loan for each week on loan. Loan assignments of less than one (1) week will be prorated.
(i)	The Company will advise the Union in writing of employees accepting loan assignments.
ARTICLE 25. TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
25.01	Purpose
The parties acknowledge that the long term interests of both the Company and the employees are best served if the Company maintains and, if possible, improves its competitive position. In order to do this the Company may make technological changes. However, both parties also recognize the importance of lesseningthe effects of technologicalchange as much as reasonably possible on the security and earnings of employees, particularly those more senior in the service, who may be displaced as a result of technological change.
25.02	Definition
For the purpose of this Article, “TechnologicalChange” means the automation, modification, or replacement of machinery or equipment, orthe mechanizationor automation of duties which causes the displacement of an employee(s) or has a detrimental effect on the incumbent’s wage rate.
25.03	Prior Notice
The Company shall provide the Union, in writing, ninety (90) days prior notice of the implementation of any technological change.
25.04	Company-Union Meetings
On request by either party, the Industrial Relations department and Union President or his designate will meet for the
60
purpose of discussing the effects of any technological change. Further meetings will be held, as far in advance as practical of the time the technological change is to take place, for the purpose of implementingthe specific application of this Article. At all meetings, meaningful discussions shall be held to resolve issues arising from the effects or implementationof technological change.
25.05	Maintenance of Rate Benefit
In the event that technological changes are instituted at any time in this operation which result in the demotion of any employee, the rate of pay of such employee shall be protected in accordancewith the provisions of marginal paragraph 15.13. It is understood that this shall not apply in the case of demotions for other reasons including reduction of crews for reasons other than technological change.
25.06	Training Benefit
The Company will provide an employee with training or retraining on the job which will provide as closely as possible, the job classification level which the employee held before his displacement. To provide this trainingiretraining,the Company and Union mutually agree that the provisions of the Collective Agreement regarding the posting of jobs shall not apply, provided such assignment does not result in the displacement of any current job incumbent. This training or retraining period will be up to thirty (30) days in duration.
If the employee chooses not to accept the trainingiretraining offered, the provision of marginal paragraph 25.05 shall not apply. However, all rights provided for in the seniority provisions of the Collective Agreement shall apply.
25.07	Severance Benefit
If an employee loses his employment with the Company as a result of technological change, he will be entitled to a termination allowance, in addition to the normal severance pay, at the time of his termination, as follows:
a minimum of two (2) weeks' pay at his normal base salary; 61
PLUS
one (1) additional weeks pay at his normal base salary for each complete year of service to a maximumof eight (8) weeks in total.
Note: This Article shall apply to non-probationary permanent employees.
ARTICLE 26. LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
26.01	The following Letters of Understanding are in effect during the course of the 1983-85 Collective Agreement:
Subject Index
Tenancy of Discharged Employees
Counselling Interviews
Application of the words ‘'will'' and “shall”
Standing Contract Language Committee Joint Training Bargaining Unit Seniority Partial or Temporary Layoffs Labour-Management Relations Committee Supplementary List of Arbitrators No Strike— No Lockout Extension Clause Safety Chairman Pay
The above Letters of Understanding may be viewed at the U.S.W.A. Office, or the Company’s Industrial Relations Department.
TERM
The term of the Collective Agreement will be from May 1, 1983 to April 30, 1985 for the purposes of establishing working conditions and for the payment of wages and benefit plans; however, the parties have agreed to an extension of the no strike - no lockout clause to August 31, 1985.
It is specifically agreed between the parties hereto, in accordance with subsection (3) of Section 66 of the Labour Code of British Columbia, that the operation of subsection (2) of Sec-
62
tion 66 is hereby excluded and shall not be applicable to this Agreement.
This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and upon their respective successors and assigns.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
FORDING COAL LIMITED	UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 9702
“J. G. GARDINER"	“D. HARNDEN”
“S. H. NOBLE"	“D. GONNELLY"
“T. G. DAVIES”	“J. STRBAN”
“W. J. THORP"	“S. DUGAL”
“T. T. ISAACS”	“R. CAMPBELL"
“G. W. D. JONES"	“K. NEUMANN”
“R. H. NOONAN"	
“R. J. MATTHEW	
‘D. R. HAMILTON"
63
4 DAYS ON, 4 DAYS OFF, 12 HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE Memorandum of Agreement
All provisions of the Collective Agreement in effect between the parties shall apply to the employeescovered by this Agreement except as modified or restricted by a clause of this Agreement.
The parties shall mutually agree before any employee or group of employees are included in the four days on and four days off, twelve hour shift schedule, provided these inclusions are approved by the Minister of Mines and the Minister of Labour. Such employees will be covered by this Agreement with such modifications as may be required and which are agreed to by the parties.
A.	Employees Covered by This Agreement
The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all employees engaged in the four days on and four days off, twelve hour shift schedules.
B.	General Conditions
11. The normal work day shall be twelve consecutive hours of work at the employee's designated working place in a twenty-four hour period.
2.	The work period shall be defined as an employee's complete period of days starting with his first scheduled work day and concluding at the end of his last scheduled rest day.
3.	The work cycle shall be forty-two consecutive days. Schedules of workshall average forty hours per week over the complete work cycle. The average forty hour week shall be accomplished by bankingthe last twelve hour shift worked as a rest day once during every work cycle of forty-two days. The accumulated rest days will be scheduled as time off by the Company in periods of four successive working days. However, if some other arrangements for taking accumulated rest
64
days off can be arrived at by an employee and the Company which is mutually agreeable, this may be done. Accumulated rest days may not exceed six in number.
The employee shall have the option of working the last twelve hour shift during the work cycle at overtime rates in lieu of banking a rest day.
4.	The work schedule of each employee shall be four consecutive days of work followed by four consecutive days of rest. The four consecutive days of work shall consist of two consecutive day shifts of twelve hours each, followed by two consecutive night shifts of twelve hours each or such other shift arrangement as may be agreed upon by the parties.
5.	The normal shift will be day shift, commencing at 7:00 a.m., and night shift commencing at 7:00 p.m. or such other arrangements as may be agreed upon by the parties.
6.	Two paid lunch periods of twenty minutes duration each will be provided during the twelve hour shift. Subject to the needs of the operation during such lunch periods, the employees shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenanceof services. Employees are responsible for providing their own lunches.
C.	Overtime Work
Overtime occurs when an employee is required to work
more than his scheduled hours of work in a work day or
on a scheduled rest day. Overtime shall be paid as follows:
1.	For the first six (6) hours of overtime worked during an employee's work period, the rate of pay shall be one and one-half (1%) times the base rate of the employee.
2.	For all overtime worked by an employee during his work period which is in excess of six (6) hours over-
65
time during that period, the rate of pay shall be two (2) times the base rate of the employee.
3.	Overtime which is in excess of eight hours overtime during an employee's work period shall be voluntary with the exception that in any operation where a qualified replacement is not available the employee may be required to remain at work.
All overtime in a work period is subject to the following conditions:
(a)	where urgent or necessary relief work is essential to the continuance of the ordinary working of the mine, but only on an occasional basis and not, in any case, for a longer period than sixteen (16) hours ip any twenty four (24) hour period; OR
(b)	where an emergency exists where life or property is in danger; OR
(c)	where there is a necessity for a periodic change of shift.
4.	Where the Company changes an employee’s work schedule during a work period and the employee is required to work in excess of his normal work day of his previous schedule or on the rest days of his previous schedule, he shall be paid overtime rates for that time worked. The new schedule will become the employee's regular schedule at the conclusionof the rest days of his previous schedule.
5.	When an employee reports on any assigned shift and is sent home because no work is available, or so that he may come to work at a later time, he shall be paid six (6) hours at his base rate plus shift premium and weekend premium if applicable for reporting. If he is assigned to work at a later time he shall be paid straight time for such work up to twelve (12) hours in that work day.
66
These provisions shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work for more than one (1) work day and fails before reporting to work to notify his supervisor of his intention to return to work.
Any employee who works four (4) hours or more in a work day and is sent home so that he may come to work at a later time in that work day shall receive overtime rates for all work performed at such later time.
D.	Statutory Holidays
1.	An employee's entitlement is to be determined in accordance with the provisions of marginal paragraph 11.01 of the Collective Agreement.
2.	An employee who is required to work on a Statutory Holiday or a day that is declared in lieu of a Statutory Holiday will be paid as follows:
(i)	If the holiday falls on a scheduled day of rest, he will receive two and one-half (2%) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked.
OR
One and one-half (ivy times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked plus equal time off with pay at the convenience of the operation.
(ii)	If the holiday falls on a normal work day, he will receive one and one-half (IV2) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked.
OR
One-half (1/a) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked plus equal time off with pay at the convenience of the operation.
If an employee works more than twelve hours, he will be paid two and one-half (2Vz) times his equivalent hourly rate for those hours worked which are in excess of twelve hours on such work day.
67
Section D, subsection 2 applies only to time worked on the day designated by the Company as the Statutory Holiday.
3.	When a Statutory Holiday falls on an employee’s rest day or during a scheduled vacation, the provisions of marginal paragaph 11.03, sections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) shall apply except for pay. Pay will be for eight (8) hours at the employee's base rate.
4.	An employee who is scheduled to work on a Statutory Holiday and who works only part of his assigned shift will be paid one and one-half (1%) times his base rate for the time worked.
An employee who is required to work on a Statutory Holiday which falls on his scheduled day of rest and who works only part of his assigned shift will be paid two and one-half (2Vs) times his base rate for the time worked.
If the period worked is less than eight (8) hours the employee shall be paid his base rate exclusive of continuous schedule differentials, overtime bonuses, holiday or other premiums for the difference between his actual hours worked and eight (8) hours.
5.	Pay for Floating Statutory Holidays will be for a maximum of eight (8) hours at the employee's base rate.
E. Bereavement Leave
Provisionsof marginal paragraph 19.01 of the Collective Agreement shall apply to employees covered by this Agree-mentexceptfor pay. Paywill be up to thirty-six (36) hours in 19.01 (i) and upto twenty-four (24) hours in 19.01 (ii) at the employee’s base rate for the period of bereavement.
If required, the employee will be granted an additional twelve (12) hours of unpaid leave to complete his entitie-ment.
68
F.	Annual Vacations
For the purpose of this Agreement, a week of vacation shall consist of one (1) work period of four (4) working days plus four (4) days off. For the purpose of computing vacation pay, the work “week shall be considered as constituting forty (40) hours.
Note: Roundout provisions shall be in accordance with marginal paragraph 17.07.
1.	An employee who has been in the service of the Company less than one (1) year prior to the first day of January in any year shall be entitled to a vacation and leave with pay as follows:
(a)	If hired between January 1st and August 31st inclusive of the previous year, eighty (80) hours off with pay,
(b)	If hired between September 1 stand December 31st inclusive of the previous year, forty (40) hours off with pay, plus forty (40) unpaid hours off if requested.
2.	An employee shall be entitled to a vacation with pay as follows:
Complete Yrs/Service as of 1st day Jan. any Yr.	Hours of Vacation with pay entitlement	Plateau Years
1	96	
2	120	3 weeks
3	120	
4	128	
5	136	
6	144	
7	152	
8	160	4 weeks
9	160	
10	168	
11	168	
69
Complete Yrs/Service Hours of Vacation as of 1st day Jan.	with pay
any Yr.	entitlement
Plateau
Years
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
176
176
184
184
192
192
200	5 weeks
200 208 208 216 216 224 224 232 232
240	6 weeks
3.	If an employee has been absent from work without pay during the preceding calendar year for any reason other than the employee's sickness or accident, or maternity leave, the periods of vacation with pay, as specified in the above paragraphs shall be reduced by 1/24th for each full pay period by which the absence exceeds thirty (30) consecutive days provided, however, that in the case of sickness the employee will not be entitled to any vacation with pay after the absence exceeds twelve (12) consecutive months.
4.	Employees entitled to two (2) weeks or more paid vacation may split their vacation subject to the approval of their Supervisor.
5.	An employee shall be entitled to unpaid Leave of Absence as the last portion of his annual vacation for
70
the purpose of rounding-out his work period (as defined in marginal paragraph 10.02) subject to the following conditions:
(i) Employees on any work schedule shall be entitled to unpaid Leave of Absence as the last portion of their final vacation period.
Note: This entitlement shall only apply if the employee has scheduled such entitlement with his annual vacation prior to April 1st of the vacation year. Where an employee has not scheduled this entitlement and wishes to at a later time, the employee shall make such request to his immediate supervisor before the start of such vacation period. Approval in such cases shall be subject to the efficiency of the operations.
6.	For the purpose of this Agreement, an employee’s vacation adjustment entitlement under marginal paragraph 17.06 will be calculated in terms of eight (8) hour work days.
G.	Special Vacations
The provisions of Article 18 of the Collective Agreement shall apply save and except for the following:
(a)	For the purpose of this Agreement, a week of vaca-tionsshall consist of one work period of four (4) working days plus four (4) days off.
(b)	For the purpose of com puting vacation pay, the word “week” shall be considered as constituting forty (40) hours.
H.	Basic Sick Leave
The provisions of marginal paragrph 22.03 of the Collective Agreement shall apply, except for sick credit accumulation. Sick credits shall accumulate at the rate of eight (8) hours per month, ninety-six (96) hours per year to a maximum of seven hundred twenty (720) hours.
71
I.	On Call
An employee required to stand by for a possible call into work shall be paid a premium of eighteen dollars ($18.00) for each shift on call. If called out to work, pay will be in accordance with marginal paragraphs 10.08 and 10.09.
J.	Exclusions
The following marginal paragraphsof the Collective Agreement shall not apply to employees covered by this Agreement:
9.02(a), (b), 9.03, 9.07, 10.01, 10.02, 10.11, 11.02, 13.03, 17.01, 17.02, 17.03, 17.04, 17.05.
APPENDIX ' A
Appendix ' Ao the Agreement effective between Fording Coal Limited and the United Steelworkersof America, Local 9702. SALARIES
The following schedules set out the salary rates and provisions effective September 12, 1983 or as otherwise stated during the term of this Agreement.
Job
Group	Stepl	Step 2	Step 3
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28 29
1774
1867
1961
2056
2152
2246
2340
2435
2528
2605
2682
2756
2806
1822
1917
2014
2112
2211
2307
2404
2500
2596
2675
2754
2830
2882
1918
2018
2120
2223
2327
2428
2530
2632
2733
2816
2899
2979
3034
72
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
2872
2937
2997
3055
3114
3171
3226
3282
Effective June 12, 1984
Job
Group	Step 1
2950 3105 3016 3175 3078 3240 3138 3303 3198 3366 3257 3428 3314 3488 3371 3548
Step 2	Step 3
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
1774
1874
1977
2081
2187
2291
2397
2503
2609
2698
2789
2877
2942
3021
3102
3176
3250
3325
3399
3472
3545
1822
1925
2030
2138
2246
2353
2461
2571
2679
2771
2864
2955
3021
3103
3185
3262
3338
3415
3491
3565
3640
The following COLA will be in effect during Agreement.
1918
2026
2137
2250
2364
2477
2591
2706
2820
2917
3015
3110
3180
3266
3353
3434
3514
3595
3675
3753
3832
the Term of the
Effective May 1 ,1983, base plus COLA float of 130/hr. guaranteed.
73
—	Effective Decemberl, 1983, base plusCOLA float of 290/hr. guaranteed.
—	Effective March 1, 1984, base plus COLA float of 450/hr. guaranteed.
—	Effective June 1, 1984, base plus COLA float of 610/hr. guaranteed.
—	Effective August 31,1984, 16 COLA guaranteed plus 610 floating COLA to be rolled in to the base.
Coal Trigger— Effective September 12, 1984, a “Coal Trigger”, based on Job Group 26, Step 3, will be applied to all job groups, if Fording recaptures any portion of the coal price reduction of April 1983, on the following basis: Recapturing any portion of the $13/tonne will result in a pro rata increase up to 5% on Job Group 26, Step 3, applied to all Step 3 salary levels.
Any additional coal price increase over $13/tonne will be ap-pliedon a pro rata factor basisto increase Job Group26, Step 3, and applied to all Step 3 salary levels.
—	EffectiveDecember 1,1984, base plus COLA float of 160/hr. guaranteed.
—■ Effective March 1, 1985, base plus COLA float of 320/hr. guaranteed.
—	Effective April 30, 1985, 11 COLA guaranteed plus 320 floating COLA to be rolled in to the base.
Note:	In the event that the CPI exceeds the “fixed” COLA
over the total reference period, the excess will be incorporated into the salary rates on the specified roll-in dates.
Job Promotion Procedure
Where an employee bids to a higher rated job, the following procedure will apply:
(a) If the new job is equal to, one or two job groups higher than the employee's current job, the employee shall retain his step.
74
(b)	If the new job is three (3) job groups higher than the employee's current job, the employee, if on a Step higher than Step 1, shall be slotted one Step lower than the employee's current step.
(c)	If the new job is four (4) or more job groups higher than the employee's current job, the employee shall be placed on Step 1 of the new job group.
Where appropriate certain individualswill have blue circle rate protection (Appendix “B”) as a result of the changed salary schedule.
Note: The normal progression through the steps requires six (6) months on Step 1 and six (6) monthson Step 2 effective from the date the employee started the job. Progressiondates will be adjusted to cover absences in excess of thirty (30) consecutive days excluding vacations.
Accounting Clerk Starting Schedule
Basic requirements — Graduate of a technical school in a finance accounting discipline.
—	start at Job Group 21, Step 1
—	after six (6) months to Job Group 21, Step 2 OR Step 1 of assigned job if greater than Job Group 21.
An employee in the Accounting Clerk Starting Schedule who successfully bids to another job will be taken off the starting schedule and paid the appropriate rate for the new job classification.
Technician Starting Schedule
Technical School Graduates — Two (2) Year Graduates
Start at Job Group 20 Step 3 After six (6) months to Job Group 21, Step 3 After six (6) months to Job Group 22, Step 3 After six (6) months to Job Group 23, Step 3
75
Three (3) Year Graduates
Start at Job Group 21, Step 3
After six (6) months to Job Group 22, Step 3
After six (6)months to Job Group 23, Step 3
Related Experience
Employeeswith related experiencewill start at the level shown and advance according to the basic starting schedule.
Less than one year — start at Job Group 20, Step 1 With one to two (2) years — start at Job Group 20, Step 2 With two (2) to four (4) years — start at Job Group 20, Step 3 Greater than four (4) years — start at Job Group 21, Step 3
Basic Starting Schedule
Start at Job Group 20, Step 1 After six (6) months to Job Group 20, Step 2 After six (6) months to Job Group 20, Step 3 After six (6) months to Job Group 21, Step 3 After six (6) months to Job Group 22, Step 3 After twelve (12) months to Job Group 23, Step 3 An employee on the Technician Starting Schedule who successfully bids to anotherjobwill be taken cff the starting schedule and paid the appropriate rate for the new job classification.
Technical Advancement Schedule After a Technician has advanced to Job Group 23, Step 3, he may bid to an appropriate job vacancy at Job Group 25 and will advance as follows:
Start at Job Group 25"
After six (6) months to Job Group 26, Step 3 After nine (9) months to Job Group 27, Step 3 After nine (9) months to Job Group 28, Step 3
* The employee will start at the appropriate step level in Job Group 25 and progress to Step 3 before advancing.
Classification of employees included in the bargaining unit. 76
1. OFFICE STAFF Job No.	Job Title
51.123	Records Retention Clerk
51.169	Clerk-Telex Operator
51.024	Receptionist
51.907	Purchasing Clerk
51.121	Accounting Clerk	Typist
51.135	Payroll Clerk
51.053	Reception Clerk
51.778	Warehouse Clerk
51.146	Keypunch Operator
51.580	Maintenance Records Clerk
51.676	Maintenance Planning Clerk
51.370	EnvironmentalServices Clerk
51.132	Payroll Clerk Staff
51.608	Mine Clerk
51.109	Payables Clerk
51.056	Personnel Services Clerk
51.224	Mine Engineering Clerk
51.680	Backlog Clerk
51.112	Accounting Clerk, General
51.111	Accounting Clerk, Receivables
51.451	Engineering Clerk
51.115	Budget Analyst
51.448	Steno-Clerk Employee
Development
51.028	Townsite Clerk
51.119	Micom Operator/
Communications Clerk
51.775	Inventory Control Clerk
51.905	Expediting Clerk
51.116	Capital Job Cost	Analyst
51.543	Plant and Traffic	Clerk
51.776	Invoice Clerk
77
Job Group
17
17
17
17
17
18 18 18 18 19 19
19
20 20 20 20 20 20 21 21 21 21
21
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
51.607	Co-ordinator,	Mine Operating	22
51.134	Senior Payroll Clerk	22
51.903	Junior Buyer	23
51.777	Stores Clerk	24
2.	TECHNICIANS AND SUPERVISORY Job No.	Job Title	Job Group
TSS or TAS* * TSS or TAS TSS or TAS TSS or TAS TSS or TAS TSS or TAS TSS or TAS TSS or TAS TSS or TAS TSS or TAS TSS or TAS
Surveying Technician Electronics Technician Development Technician Environmental Technician Geological Technician Planning Technician Reclamation Technician Geological Draftsman Draftsman Technician Construction Technician Greenhouse Technician
*TSS — Technician Starting Schedule
*TAS — Technician Advancement Schedule 51.108	Payables Supervisor
51.596	Janitorial Supervisor
51.113	Accounting Clerk, Ledgers
51.144	Computer Terminal Operator
51.774	Stores Supervisor
51.371	Temporary Field Supervisor
51.559	Process Labour Supervisor
(Plant)
51.591	Process Labour Supervisor
(Yard)
78
Technician's Starting Schedule (TSS or TAS)
24
25 25
25
26 27
27
27
51.902
51.629
51.623
51.626
51.625
51.628
51.627
51.624
51.544
51.674
51.772
51.592
51.900
51.901
51.640
51.634
51.367
51.577
51.672
51.658
51.619
51.635
51.226
51.446
51.035
51.697
51.769
51.722
51.736
51.574
51.716
51.590
51.573
Buyer
Pit Labour Supervisor Equipment Training Supervisor
Draglinejraining Supervisor Drill Training Supervisor Loader Training Supervisor Shovel Training Supervisor Truck Training Supervisor Laboratory Supervisor Materials Co-ordinator
Warehousing Supervisor Services Operating Supervisor
Assistant Purchasing Agent Project Materials Supervisor Tire Shop Supervisor Dewatering Supervisor Environmental Services Supervisor
Area Planner, Processing Area Planner
Pit Supervisor Blasting Supervisor Road Supervisor Surveyor Supervisor Electrical Design Draftsman Maintenance Trainer, H.E.
Maintenance Supervisor, H. E. Maintenance Supervisor. H.E. Machinist Supervisor Electrical. Supervisor Welding/Fab Supervisor Welding/Fab Supervisor Carpenter Supervisor Maintenance Supervisor
79
27
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
31 31 31 31 31
31
32 32 32 32 32 32 32 32
51.705	Maintenance Supervisor, L.E.	32
51.572	Maintenance Supervisor,	
	Proc. Instr.	32
51.765	Field Maintenance Supervisor	32
51.571	Electrical Supervisor	32
51.575	Pipefitter Supervisor	32
51.445	Electrical Designer	34
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE		
1.	Each employee covered by this Agreement shall receive a Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) during the term of this Agreement as hereinafter provided.
2.	The Cost of Living Allowance shall be based on the Consumer Price Index (all items— base 1981 equals 100) published by Statistics Canada (hereinafterreferredto as CPI).
3.	The Cost of Living Allowance shall be equal to one cent (1p) for each 0.11 point rise in the CPI as hereinafter determined counting as afull cent any fraction of one-half cent (1/20) or more.
Note: this new formula for COLA is equal to the previous COLA formula. Statistics Canada will no longer publish figures required for the previous COLA calculation.
4.	The Cost of Living Allowance shall only be paid for hours actually worked and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall not be included in the calculation of overtime rates, vacation and statutory holiday pay, incentive plans or any other premiums or benefits.
Note: on those dates specified as “roll-in” dates, the “roll in”amountwill becalculatedon a 174 hour per month basis and applied to the Step 3 salary levels.
5.	Adjustments to the Cost of Living Allowance shall be made as follows:
(a)	The total COLA which shall become payable from May 1, 1983 to November 30, 1983 shall be deter-
80
mined by the COLA calculation resulting from the difference between the CPI for December 1982 and the CPI for March 1983 (calculated as 130/hr.)-
(b)	Effective December 1/83 the COLA float shall be increased by 160/hr. to 29p/hr.
(c)	EffectiveMarch 1 /84 the COLA float shall be increased by 16C/hr. to 45p/hr.
(d)	Effective June 1/84the COLA float shall be increased by 160/hr. to 610/hr.
(e)	The total COLA which shall be “rolled in” to the Salary Rates on September 1, 1984 shall be the sum of the total COLA being paid on November 30, 1983 plus that determined by the COLA calculation resulting from the difference between the CPI for July 1983 and the CPI for July 1984. The total amount to be rolled in will not be less than 770/hr.
(f)	EffectiveDecember1/84aCOLAfloatof 160/hr. shall become payable.
(g)	Effective March 1/85the COLA.float shall be increased by 16c/hr. to 32<t/hr.
(h)	The total COLA which shall be “rolled in” to the Salary Rates on April 30, 1985 shall be determined by the COLA calculation resulting from the difference between the CPI for July 1984 and the CPI for March 1985. The total amount to be rolled in will not be less than 43p/hr.
6.	Inthe event that the CPI exceedsthe fixed Cost of Living Allowances over the total reference periods, the excess will be incorporated into the salary rates on the specified roll-in dates.
7.	Inthe event that Statistics Canada does not issue the CPI on or before the beginning of the periods referred to in Clause 6, any pay adjustments required shall be made at the beginning of the first pay period after publication cf
81
the CPI and shall be retroactive to the commencement of the appropriate period. In the event that a retroactive adjustment is made by Statistics Canada to the CPI it is agreed that the paid allowance to the employees will not be adjusted retroactively.
8.	The partiesto this Agreement agree that the continuance of the Cost of Living Allowance will depend on availability of the monthly Statistics Canada CPI in its present form and calculated on the same basisasthe indexfor 1981. If Statistics Canada changes the form or basis of calculating the CPI, the parties shall attempt to determine an appropriate index figure by agreement. If agreement is not reached the parties agree to request Statistics Canada to make available for the rest of this Agreement a monthly CPI in its present form calculated on the same basisasthe indexfor 1981.
APPENDIX “B”
1.	Joint Job Evaluation Committee
(a)	The Joint Job Evaluation Committee will be composed of a Union committee chairman and one Union representativeand one Company committee chairman and one Company representative.The Committee will be under the chairmanship of the Company chairman. Alternate committee members may be designated by the Union and the Company by mutual agreement of the chairmen. Members of the Joint Committee who are relieved from their jobs during working hours to assist in carrying out the functions of Joint Job Evaluation will be paid by the Company at their regular job rates for the time during their regular shifts, thereby preventing any loss in regular income.
(b)	The Joint Committee will have access to any relevant information they require such as interviewing the job incumbent and his supervisor or observing the job. This will be arranged by the Company chair-
82
man at the convenience of the Joint Committee and the section of the operation or office concerned. For the purpose of joint interviews, the job incumbents shall be mutually agreeable to the Company and the Union.
2.	Standards
(a)	Job Evaluation Descriptions
Job Evaluation Descriptions are for the purpose of assigning a job group level to a job. They shall be prepared as factually, concisely and unambiguously as possible.
Job Evaluation Descriptions shall outline the basic responsibilities^ the job and shall not be intended to be, or replace position manuals or guides, and as such are not to be construed as an “all inclusive” document of the job.
(b)	The evaluation of all jobs will be done in accordance with the Company's existing benchmark system for job evaluation.
(c)	Additions and deletions to benchmarksin the existing system shall be mutually agreed to by the Joint Job Evaluation Committee.
(d)	Requests for evaluation must be in writing to either the Company Chairman or the Union Chairman, and may be made by management, the employee, the Union, or either of the Committee Chairmen.
The two chairmen will keep each other informed of any requests for evaluation.
Before a job is eligible for evaluation, one of the following conditions must apply:
(i)	a new job has been created,
(ii)	a significant change has occurred in an existing job.
83
3.	Procedures for Job Evaluation
(a)	New Jobs
When a new job is created, the Supervisor shall submit a Job Evaluation Description to the Company Committee Chairman.
The Company Committee Chairman will review the Job Evaluation Descriptionand assign a temporary job group. The new Job Evaluation Description and the temporary assigned job group will be reviewed immediately with the Union Committee Chairman.
The Joint Committee Chairmen will set an evaluation date which shall not exceed 120 calendar days from the day the job is occupied.
Three (3) weeks prior to the evaluation date, the Job Evaluation Description shall be reviewed by the supervisor and the employee to finalize and sign. The Joint Committee Chairmen will be available to assist if required.
Finalized copies of the Job Evaluation Description shall be forwarded to the Company Committee Chairman for distribution to the Union Committee Chairman two weeks prior to the evaluation date.
(b)	Changes to an Existing Job
When an existing job is changed, the supervisor shall review the changed Job Evaluation Description with the Company Committee Chairman.
The Company Committee Chairman will assign a temporary job group, if necessary. The changed Job Evaluation Description and the temporary assigned job group will be reviewed immediately with the Union Committee Chairman. The Joint Committee Chairmen will set an evaluation date, if necessary, which shall not exceed 120 calendar days from the day the change is effected.
Three (3)weeks prior to the evaluation date the changed Job Evaluation Description shall be reviewed by the su-
84
pervisor and the employee to finalize and sign. The Joint Committee Chairmen will be available to assist if required. Finalized copies of the changed Job Evaluation Description shall be forwarded to the Company Committee Chairman for distribution to the Union Committee Chairman for joint evaluation, if necessary.
(c)	On a continuing basis, the Company will ensure that each Job Evaluation Descriptionis reviewed at least once every four years.
(d)	All jobs reviewed in joint session will be classed as completed, incompleted, or disputed jobs. The following definitions will be used to determine the classifications:
(i)	Completed Jobs:
Jobs which have been evaluated to the satisfaction of the two committee chairmen.
(ii)	Incompleted Jobs:
Jobs for which the Job Evaluation Descriptions are found to be incomplete or in error.
Incomplete jobs will be reviewed again in joint sessions within thirty (30) calendar days. This time limit may be extended by mutual consent of the two chairmen.
(iii)	Disputed Jobs:
Jobs which have been reviewed in joint session but have not been ranked due to disagreement.
In the case of disputed jobs, the Company ranking will be used to establish the job groups. The Union will then have fifteen (15) working days to invoke the Section 112 procedure of the B.C. Labour Code. The parties agree that the decision handed down under this procedure will be binding on both the Company and the Union.
(iv)	In the event of wrong job group applications due to clerical error, the error will jfce corrected immediately
85
and the proper salary paid. Rate protection will not apply to job incumbents in case the proper salary is lowerthan the former wrQng salary. The Union Committee Chairman will be notified immediately of the wrong job situation and the action taken.
(v)	The Company will keep the Union Chairman advised of all jobs which cease to be active.
(vi)	The Joint Job Evaluation Committee will endeavor to obtain consensus on all jobs referred to it. Committee decisionswill be binding to both the Company and the Union.
(vii)	When the Joint Committee has established the per-manentjob group for the job, the Company will process the necessary authorizations.
(viii)	When joint evaluation of an existing job results in a higher job group, the rate will be retroactive to the date of requestas per 2(d), unless it is mutually agreed that some other date should apply. When the job group is lowered, the applicable rate protection provision of red or blue circling will apply.
(ix)	“Red Circling”
When a job group of a job is lowered due to evaluation, the applicable rate protection provision of “red circling” shall apply.
“Red circled” employees shall receive 80% of the wage increase applicable to the standard for the job on which they are the incumbent until such time as the “red circle” differential disappears. “Red circled” employees who are fifty-five years of age or over or who have had twenty years of service or over on the date that any increase becomes effective shall receive the full amount of the standard increase.
86
(x)	“Blue Circling”
“Blue cirding”shall be applied to the current incumbents of jobs affected by job evaluation changes under the following circumstances:
1.	The job group of a job is reduced as a result of the implementationof a newjob evaluation plan.
2.	The job group of a job is reduced because of changes to an existing job evaluation plan.
3.	The salary of an employee is higher than the highest salary of a job group due to transition from a system providingfor separately rated jobs with performancepremiumsabove the standard salaiy to a system where the maximum salary levels are attained on a time basis.
Employees who are “blue circled shall receive the full salary Increaseapplicableto the newjob group In which the job falls.
“Blue circle”protectionshallcease when an employee ispromotedto a newjob, the rate of which isequal to or higher than his salary at the time of promotion.
a7