ELK VALLEY COAL CORPORATION CARDINAL RIVER OPERATIONS
VALLEY
COAL
00192 (09)
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
CARDINAL RIVER OPERATIONS and the
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1656
Effective: July 1, 2007 - June 30, 2012
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
The agreement made this 31” day of August, 2007. between
CARDINAL RIVER OPERATIONS (hereinafter referred io as the Company or Employer) and
THE UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1656
(hereinafter referred io as the Union)
2
MISSION STATEMENT UNITED MINE WORKERS
OF AMERICA LOCAL 1656
The Executive Local 1656 has a mission.
The mission is io ensure that our brothers and sisters enjoy the following:
A STRONG STANDARD OF LIVING SAFE WORKING CONDITIONS PROPER BENEFITS AND EDUCATION HIGH QUALITY OF WORK LIFE SECURE RETIREMENT A STRONG AND VIABLE LOCAL UNION
and to support the continued success and productivity of Cardinal River
Operations for the benefit of you the employee and you the U.M.W.A. member.
TABLE CONTENTS
Article
1	PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
2	SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
3	MANAGEMENTOF MINE
4	UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
5	ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
6	CESSATION OF WORK
7	PENSION BENEFIT PROGRAM FOR CARDINAL RIVER UNION HOURLY EMPLOYEES
8	SENIORITY
9	REPORTING PAY AND MINIMUM DAILY PAY
10	HOLIDAYS
11	VACATIONS
12	RATES OF PAY
13	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
14	SAFETY
15	EMPLOYEE CONDITION
16	SICKNESS AND DEATH BENEFITS
17	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
18	JOB POSTINGS
19	TRAINING
20	APPRENTICESHIPTRAINING PROGRAM
21	ABSENTEEISM/DtSCIPLINE
22	CHRISTMAS BONUS
23	EMPLOYEE TRANSPORTATION
24	SENIORITY LIST
25	INCOME TAX DEDUCTIONS
26	SEVERANCE PAY
27	HOT MEALS
28	COST OF AGREEMENTS
29	EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
30	DURATION OF AGREEMENT
SHIFT SCHEDULES EXHIBIT A
SCHEDULE OF MINIMUM HOURLY WAGE RATES PRODUCTION & MAINTENANCE JOBS
APPRENTICE RATES
EXHIBIT B
TRAINING SCHEDULE EXHIBIT C
4
Page #
6
6
8
8
10
13
13
15
18
19
20 22 24 29 32 34 37 37
41
42
43
44
44
45 45
45
46 46 46 46
49
50
51
52
53
PLANT TRAINING
LETTER OF AGREEMENT	#1	54
LETTER OF AGREEMENT	#2	55
LETTER OF AGREEMENT	#3	56
LETTER OF AGREEMENT	#4	57
LETTER OF AGREEMENT	#5	58
LETTER OF AGREEMENT	#6	59
LETTER OF AGREEMENT	#7	60
LETTER OF AGREEMENT	#8	61
LETTER OF AGREEMENT	#9	62
5
Article 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
It is the intent of the parties and the purpose of this Agreement to preserve and continue the harmonious relations existing between the parties: to insure peaceful adjustment and settlement of grievances, claims, disputes and differences which may arise between the Employer and its employees represented by the Union; to prevent stoppage and interruptions of work, strikes and lockouts: and to establish wages, hours and working conditions which shall prevail during the term hereof for the employees covered by this Agreement.
In this Agreement, wherever the masculine gender is used, the feminine shall also apply.
Article 2 SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
2.01
This Agreement covers all employees of the Employer hired for its mining operations at Cardinal River Operations excluding those employees designated in Section 2.02 of this Article.
2.02
The following classifications are excluded from this bargaining unit:
(a)	Office staff, unit foremen, safety and security personnel, surveyors and rodmen, janitors, lab technicians, environmentalists, and,
(b)	Those exercising managerial fund ons and those employed n a conf cent a capacity in matters relat ng to labour relatons
(c)	Except where it is necessary to instruct company employees, test equipment and facilities and in the case of emergency, foreman and managerial personnel will not perform work or operate equipment normally performed by employees covered by this Collective Agreement.
2.03
(a)	The following aspects of this Collective Agreement shall govern the
conditions of employment which a contractor, subcontractor, assignee, or transferee provides for his employees for work performed for Cardinal River Operations at the minesite:
(i)	wage rates in Exhibit "A" (as a minimum)
(ii)	safety regulations
(iii)	cessation of work (Article 6)
(iv)	adjustment of grievances (Articles or equivalent procedures)
6
(v)	scope of Agreement as per Article 2.02
(b)	Contractors, subcontractors, assignees or transferees engaged by Cardinal River Operations to perform specialized work not normally
performed by the employees of Cardinal River Operations shall be exempt from Article 2.03 (a) (i) above.
(c)	The contractor, subcontractor, assignee, or transferee shall pay to Local
1656, U.M.W.A. initiation fees and monthly dues for all his employees who perform work under contract or subcontract to Cardinal River Operations at the minesite. All Non-Union employees (not party to a collective Agreement) of the Contractor, subcontractor, assignee or transferee shall become members of the U.M.W.A. while performing work under contract or subcontract to Cardinal River Operations at the minesite.
(d)	The Employer agrees that prior to any contracting or subcontracting out of work the Union must be notified in writing and such contracting and/or subcontracting out will be discussed with the Union. Such notification and discussion will occur at least three (3) working days prior to the commencement of the contract work with the exception of emergency circumstances. The contractor and/or subcontractor will not perform work unless the Union has been notified, and such work has been discussed with the Union, except in emergency circumstances.
2.04
(a)	Emergencies excepted, representatives of the contractor and of the Employer shall meet with a Union representative prior to the contractor commencing work (or no later than the first day of commencing work) and provide the names of his employees and arrange for the payment of dues and initiation fees. At this meeting work permits shall be issued for contractor's employees.
(b)	The written notification shall include the following information:
(i)	Name of the contractor
(ii)	The nature of the work being performed
(iii)	Expected duration of the contract
(iv)	Number of contract employees
(c)	At the end of every month the Employer will provide the Union with a list of the contractors, subcontractors, assignees, or transferees during the month, the names of their employees and social insurance numbers, and
a record of the initiation fees and dues which were payable under clause
2.03	(c).
7
2.05
Exceptfor safety regulations as outlined in clause 14.03 of this Collective Agreement contracting ofwork where the work is being performed by a manufacturer or supplier under warranty shall be exempt from the provisions of this Article.
2.06
The Company further agrees that prior to any contracting out which will result in loss of employment to its employees, such contracting out will be discussed with the Union before it is implemented, and iffollowing the discussion no Agreement is reached, the Company agrees it will not contract out work at the operations which work is normally performed by the employee if, as a direct result, an employee will be laid off or demoted.
2.07
If, as a result of tne reqj rement for h s employees to become members of the UMWA as specif ed in 2 03 (c), a Non Union Construct on Contractor as defined here n snould decl ne to work for Card nal R ver Operat ons, the UMWA sha I waive the membersh p requ rement The reason underly ng the contractors oec s on shall be d scussed wtn the Unon during tne meeting scheduled unoer 2 03 (d) Such contractors shall however, pay .n.tiat on fees and monthly dues to local 1656 UMWA fcr the r employees
Article 3	MANAGEMENTOF MINE
Tne management of tne operat on is vested in the Employer except that th s right sna l not supersede any provis ons of tnis Agreement
Article 4	UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
4 01
Tne Employer recognzes tne Unon as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees as defined n Artie e 2 01 oftnis Agreement
4 02
(ai All employees covered by th s Agreement sha I become memoers of tne Unon and shall rema n members of the Union as a condit on <f employment
4 03
(a)	Students h red as summer vacat on reief w.l. not be allowed to exerc se rghts or rece ve oenef ts provided unoer the lollowing sect ons of this Col ect.ve Agreement
(C)
(d)
(i)	Article 7: Pension Benefits
(ii)	Article 13.08: Overtime.
Students hired as Summer vacation relief will not be eligible to work overtime until all eligible regular employees have been offered the opportunityto work such overtime as may be required.
(iii)	Article 18 & 19: Job Postings and Training.
Children of employees hired as summer vacation relief and eligible for benefits coverage under their parent's benefits plan will not be eligible for Sickness and Death Benefitsexcept for:
(i)	Life Insurance,
(ii)	Short Term Disability
El igibilityfor these benefits will cease on August 31 of the year in which they are hired.
Studentswho are not eligible for Sickness and Death benefits under their parent's benefits plan will be eligible for all Sickness and Death benefits under this CollectiveAgreement, but such coverage will cease on August 31 of the year in which they are hired.
Under no circumstanceswill summer students be eligible for Long Term Disability.
4.04
The Employerwill honor written assignmentsof wages of Union dues, assessmentsand fines and shall remit such dues, assessments and fines to the Union monthly, together with informationsuch as social insurancenumber, mailing address and date of hire, as to the personsfrom whose pay such deductions have been made. Such deductions shall be made from the first pay period of each month and shall be remittedto the Union by the end of the same month with the informationoutlined herein.
4.05
The Union shall indemnifythe Employer and hold it harmlessagainst any and all suits, claims, demands, and liabilitiesthat shall arise out of or by reasonof any action taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with any provisionof Article 4.
4.06
The Employerwill arrange for new employees to sign deduction assignments forms upon employment with the Company and will forward the executed documents to the Union.	, .
, f 0
4.07
(a)	The Employer will grant leave of absence without pay to employees who are:
1.	appointed or elected to Union office; except that not more than four (4) employees at any onetime will be granted such leave;
2.	appointed or elected as representatives to attend Union meetings, conventions, or Union business; except that not more than fifteen (15) employees at any one time will be granted such leave and not more than two (2Jemployees from the same job classification.
(b)	If operating conditions permit, leave of absence will be granted to each employee who is elected or appointed to Town Council, School and Hospital Boards.
4.08
Employees who are elected or appointed to full time Union office shall be granted a leave of absence without pay on request as provided in 4.07(a) above. Employees on such leave shall continue to accrue seniority and service with the Employer. The Company shall maintain such employees on the Pension Benefit Program as defined in Article 7. Employees returning from Union leave will return to the same shift and same position they held prior to going on leave.
4.09
Employees granted a leave of absence under 4.08 must return to work within 2 months after the expiration of such Union appointment.
4.10
When hired, all employees shall report to the Union Office before commencing work. The Employer shall give each new employee one (1) copy of the Collective Agreement. The Employer will provide on a weekly basis, the Local Union Secretary with a list of newly hired and terminated employees, indicating name and job classification.
Article 5 ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
5.01	Purpose
It is the intent and purpose of this Article 5 which shall be available both to the Union and the Employer, to provide for the presentation and equitable adjustment of grievances. Should any differences arise between the Employer and the Union as to the meaning or application of the provisions of this Agreement or as to any questions relating to the wages, hours of work or other conditions of employment of any employee covered by this Agreement the same shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this Article 5.
10
5.02
The grievance committee shall consist of not more than twenty (20) employees, duly elected, from the mine and/or plant I n addition, the Local Union Officers can act as committeemen. The Union must advise the Employer, inwriting, which employees are selected for the grievance committee.
5.03	Duties
The duties of the Union Steward shall be confined to the purpose as set forth in
5.01	above, and they shall be allowed to process the grievance during shift after first making proper arrangements with the foremen involved as to time and place
5.04	Step 1
(a)	Within six (6) working days of the alleged grievance, the employee who may be accompanied by his Union Steward if he so desires, shall present the grievances either verbally or in writing to his foreman. Failing
settlement to the employee's satisfaction within one (1) day, the employee may proceed to Step 2. In discharge cases, Steps 1 and 2 will be bypassed and Step 3 will take precedence.
(b)	The term "working days" as used herein, shall mean the grievor's regular scheduled work days.
5.05	Step 2
Within five (5) working days from the time settlement could have been made in the previous step, the grievances shall be reduced to writing, dated, and signed by the employee and either the Union Steward or Union Secretary and submitted to the Employer.
Such grievance shall then be discussed in an attempt cf settlement at a mutually
convenient time within three (3) working days after submission. Such meeting shall include the employee, one (1) or two (2) Union representatives, the superintendent, and industrial relations representative and any required witnesses. The department superintendent shall reply in writing within three (3) working days stating the matter, date and decision reached. Failing a satisfactory settlement or reply at this stage, the employee may proceed to Step 3.
5.06	Step 3
Within five (5) working days from the time settlement could have been made within the time limits d Step 2, the employee or the Union shall submit a notice of appeal stating the subject matter of the grievance and all objectives pertaining to the previous disposition. At this time a meeting shall be arranged within ten (10) working days io hearthe appeal and determine a just disposition. The meeting shall consist ofthe employee, representatives of the Union, (a maximum of three (3) to be spokesmen), the department superintendent or his designee and the general manager or his designee and one (1) other Employer representative. ii
Either party may produce any persons familiar with the facts involved in aid in a just solution.
Typewritten minutes should be kept on Step 3 meeting by the Employerand should conform essentially to the following outlines:
(a)	Date and place of meeting
(b)	Names and positions of those present
(c)	Description of the Grievance
(d)	Brief statement of Union's position
(e)	Brief statement of Employer's position
(f)	Abstract of important aspects of the discussion
(g)	Decision reached by Employer
The Employer shall submit the decisionto the Union with in ten (10) working days. Failing a satisfactory settlement or reply at this stage, an appeal shall be served within fourteen (14) working days.
5.07	Step 4
(a)	An Arbitrator shall be appointed by mutual Agreement of the parties hereto and whose decision shall be final. In the event mutual Agreement cannot be reached by an Arbitrator, it is agreed that either party may upon five (5) days written notice to the other party, request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Alberta to appoint such Arbitrator. The Arbitrator shall have jurisdictionand authority only to interpret, apply or determine compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, and such local working conditions as may hereafter be in effect and as agreed to by the parties of this Agreement, insofar as shall be necessary to determination of grievances appealed to the Arbitrator. The Arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to, detract from or alter the provisions of this Agreement. The expenses and salary extent of the services of the Arbitrator shall be sharedequally by the Employer and the Union.
(b)	The Arbitrator shall award his decision within ninety (90) days of hearing the case.
I2
5.08	Company/Union Grievance
Where any difference occurs between the Employer and the Union as to the meaning, application or interpretation of any part of this Collective Agreement, either party shall give notice in writing as to the difference grieved. The Employer and the Union shall meet within ten (fOJworking days to consider such a grievance. In the event of failure to agree, either party may revert to Step 4 of this Article.
Article 6 CESSATION OF WORK
There shall be no strikes or lockouts by eitner party, either co lectively or ndividually djr ng tne life ofthis Agreement.
Article 7 PENSION BENEFIT PROGRAM FOR CARDINAL RIVER UNION HOURLY EMPLOYEES
7.01	Basic Plan
Tne Plan s a Money Pjrchase Plan, herealter referred to as the "Pension Plan."
7.02	E.ig oillty Cr teria
This Pension Plan s available to act ve employees employees receiving benefits under tne Company sponsored Weekly Indemnity Program, W.C.B. employees, and new n res the f rst of tne month follow ng their date of Pire.
Effect ve July 1,1990, the Pens on P.an shall beava lable to employees on long term d sab l.ty insurance for a maximum period of time equal to the Emp'oyee's seniority at the t me he became el glble for benefits. In no case w II pensionable serv ce continue to accrje after an employee's normal retirement date or while he is gainfully employed by an Employer other than Cardinal River Operations. The pension benefit shall be that in effect when the employee qualifies lor the long term disabil.ty benefit.
7.03	Employer Pens'on Plan Contr butions
(a)	Effective July 01,2003 the Employer agrees to increase the contribution to $270.83* month (maximum $3,250 on a contract year bas s) wn ch will be depos ted on an employee's behalf to the Pens on Plan.
Effective July 1,1993 all emp oyees will be reqj red to contribute
$20.84/month (maximum $250 00 on a contract year bass). The Company wi I match th's amount.
(b)	I n the event of a temporary m ne shutdown Employer contribut ons wi I cont nue lor a further thirty (30) day period.
u
(C) In the event of termination Employer contributions for that month will be prorated.
7.04	Administration
Effective April 1,1997, the method of managing the Pension Plan was changed to allow individual employees the opportunity to select their own investment options from the suite of products offered by and through the trustee. Employees will receive individual annual statements of the value of their account. The Trustee for the Fund will be selected by the Company and Union Committee. Investment Management fees will be charged to the fund by the Trustee. Administration fees will be paid by the Company.
7.05	Death Benefit
Should an employee die while a member of the Pension Plan, all amounts credited to him will be paid to his beneficiary as specified by the Employment Pension Plans Act. This will include a contribution for the balance of the calendar year in which death occurs providing that the employee has worked in the year the death occurs.
7.06	Termination
Upon termination of employment, the value of the employee's Pension Plan will be transferred to a Registered Retirement Savings Plan as permitted by regulatory authorities to provide for retirement.
7.07	Minimum Pension Guarantee
(a)	(1) Employees may be eligible to receive a minimum pension guarantee
based on $30.00 per year of service to a maximum of 30 years of service ($900.00 per month maximum) providing such employee retires from the Company after age 62 with a minimum of 10 years service and purchases an annuity.
(2) The minimum pension guarantee will also apply to employees disabled and receiving long term disability benefits for a maximum period equal to employee seniority at the time he became eligible for disability benefits.
(b)	The value of the employees Pension Plan Account, Group RRSP account (Company contributions) and severance pay as outlined in Article 26.01(e) must be included in the calculation of the Company cost of providing the minimum pension guarantee.
(c)	The minimum pension guarantee (Company cost) calculation will be based on the greater of (1) the actual Pension Plan and Group RRSP (Company contributions) account values and (2) the value the deposits
14
would have grown to if contributions were invested in a 5 year term deposit.
7.08	Provincial/Federal Regulations
The Pension Plan terms and conditions will be registered in accordance with the Employment Pension Plans Act of Alberta and the Income Tax Act of Canada.
7.09	Employer Contribution to Group RRSP
1.	Effective July 01,2004, the company agrees io increase the contribution to $100.00 per month (maximum of $1200.00 per year) which will be deposited on an employee's behalf to a Group RRSP.
2.	Employees will be allowed to make transfers from the Group RRSP once per 12 month period.
7.10	VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS
Employees may direct the Company to make additional deductions to the Group RRSP.
Articles SENIORITY
8.01
Seniority shall be the length of continuous service with the Employer
8.02
Continuous service of an employee shall be broken by:
(a)	A resignation or "quit".
(b)	Discharge for just cause.
(c)	Retirement
(d)	A layoff for a period in excess of six (6) months ifthe employee does not notify the Employer of his status at least once every six (6) months.
(e)	Failure to report to work within fifteen (15) days from the date of a written notice io return to work after a layoff. Written notice will be in the form of a registered letter with return receipt sent to the last address given by the employee to the Employer. It is the employee's responsibility to keep the Employer advised of his current address.
15
(f)	Absence, except for good cause, extending beyond an authorized vacation period or beyond a leave of absence granted by the Employer.
(g)	Absence due to non-compensable disability if the employee does not notify the Employerof his status at least once every six (6) months.
8.03	Layoff
(a)	When the mine is temporarily idle, the most senior employees shall have preference of the work available in their classificationand shift.
(b)	I n the event of a layoff and/or recall and lor demotion which extends beyond 7 work days, for eight hour shift employees or 4 work days for 12 hour shift employees then at that time:
(i)	seniority shall be the determining factor in Job Groups 1 to 7, excluding Process Operator II & III.
(ii)	seniority shall be the determining factor for Job Groups 8 to 10 providing the individual has previous paid Company experience in the classification.
(c)	Under th s clause, employees will not be perm tted to accept a trades class fication unless they holdtne necessaryqual f cat.ons.
(d)	Under this clause, employeesentering into those classifications! n Exhibit B (trainingschedule) shall do so at the trainee level.
8.04
Employeeshaving permanent or temporary partial disability shall be given preference over other employees in the class or work they can reasonably perform, and shall be paid not less than their original raie for a period not exceeding three (3) months. To exercise rights under this paragraph a vacancy must exist on a job prior to the disabled employees having preference of assignment.
Employees holding a bid underthis article must provide medical proof of disability on an annual basis. If the employee is no longer disabled, the position will be re-posted, and he will be required to bid out to a position/vacancy that his seniority and qualificationsentitles him to hold. In this circumstance, Article
18.03	will not apply.
8.05
lithe Employer introduces any change in equipment or material or any change in its work, undertaking or business, which directly results in the layoff or termination of employees as a direct result of the introduction of such equipment or material, those employees subject to layoff or termination as a result of such
16
introduction of equipment or material may exercise the seniority rights available to them under this article.
8.06
In the event that after the application of the seniority provisions, employees who choose termination as a direct result of the introduction of such equipment or material or any change in its work, those employees will receive severance pay equivalent to one hundred (100) hours at the rate of the last classification which each employee could have held after the application of seniority rights by employees affected.
8.07
It is understood and agreed that the terms of Article 8.05 and following in this Article 8 relate to changes under the sole and exclusive control of the Employer, and not related to market conditions.
8.08
The following is the method of application of the provisions outlined in 8.05 and 8.06:
(a)	Severance Pay
Those employees directly displaced as a result of technological change as defined in 8.05 will have the option of:
(j) taking a layoff without severance pay, OR
(jj) terminating their employment with the Company and taking the severance pay, OR
(iii)	exercising seniority rights by bumping less senior employees providing the individual has previous paid Company experience in the classification he is bumping in to.
(b)	The employees referred to above will have their rates red circled until:
(i)	the Collective Agreement rates for the new job performed are equal to or greater than the employee's red circled rates, OR
(ii)	such employee posts into another job, in which case the employee will receive the standard rate for the newjob.
Employees indirectly affected as a result of those employees in (a) above, bumping will not be eligible for severance pay or have their rates red circled, except that those employees who, afterthe application of all the seniority provisions of this Agreement, would otherwise be laid off (i.e. no alternate job in the Company which they can perform or have seniority to
17
bump in to or otherwise is available to the employee) then such employee will have the option of:
(i)	electing severance pay;
(ii)	electing layoff without severance
Article 9 REPORTING PAY AND MINIMUM DAILY PAY
9.01
An employee who reports to work as scheduled without having been notified not to report and for who no work is available will be allowed four (4) hours pay for eight (8) hour shift employees or six (6) hours pay for twelve (12) hour shift employees at the rate of the job for which he was scheduled to report.
9.02
When an employee has reported to work and has reached his designated working place he shall be provided eight (8) hours work or be paid the full eight (8) hours in lieu thereof for eight (8) hour shift employees, or for twelve (12) hour shift employees be provided twelve (12) hours work or be paid the full twelve (12) hours in lieu thereof.
9.03
When an employee has been accepted on his scheduled bus, he will not be turned back as a means of denying the content of this Article.
9.04
It is understood that where employees report to their marshalling point to which no bus transportation is provided for them, that if the Company can prove that by a telephone call that an employee was informed of nonavailability of work, then the provisions of Clause 9.01 shall not apply.
9.05	Call-out
Anyone called out for start-up or other work, shall be provided a minimum of four (4)hours work for eight (8) hour shift employees or six (6) hours work for twelve (12) hour shift employees, or receive pay in lieu of, as per Article 13, Hours of Work and Overtime.
9.06
The provisions of this Article will apply in the event of an accidental fatality at the mine but will not apply in the event of strikes or work stoppages in connection with labour disputes.
18
Article 10 HOLIDAYS
10.01
The following days will be observed:
New Year's Day Family Day
Good Friday May 1st Victoria Day Canada Day
1st Monday in August Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
In the event that the Provincial or Federal Government proclaims an additional paid general holiday to be added to the Annual and General Holidays Act, such holiday will be added to this Article, provided such holiday is not listed i n 10.01 and further provided that such proclaimed paid holiday is not a substitute or a replacement for any present legislated holiday. It is agreed that there shall not be more than a total of thirteen (13) general holidays observed in a calendar year.
10.02
Holidays shall be effective on the day of the week on which they fall; however,
should the Provincial or Federal Government proclaim a day in lieu of any of the holidays listed in Article 10.01 the day proclaimed shall become the holiday for the purpose of interpreting this Article unless otherwise mutually agreed.
10.03	Holidays Not Worked
An employee shall be entitled to a holiday allowance for any of the above named holidays not worked, provided he meets all of the following eligibility requirements:
He shall have worked all of his last scheduled shift prior to, and all of his next
scheduled shift following such holiday, unless an absence from one or both of such shifts is because of sickness of the employee (proof required), or because of other good cause.
10.04
(a)	For the purpose of calculating overtime and vacations, an employee who qualifies for payment for a general holiday will be deemed to have worked eight (8) hours if on an eight hour shift schedule or twelve (12) hours if on a twelve hour shift schedule on the general holiday.
(b)	A holiday allowance for a holiday not worked shall be computed by multiplying by 8 (for eight hour shift schedule employees) or by 12 (for twelve hour shift schedule employees) the minimum hourly wage rate as in Exhibit "A" of the employee's regular classification.
19
10.05
Many holiday designated in 10.01 occurs during an employee's scheduled vacation period, the employee shall receive pay for such holiday as per 10.04 on the first pay period after his vacation and the employee shall receive an extra day off at the employee's discretion as indicated on the vacation application.
10.06
An employee who works on any of the named holidays shall receive his normal holiday allowance plus one and one-halftimes (I/2X) his regular standard hourly wage rate for the number of hours worked.
Article 11 VACATIONS
11.01	Eligibility
(a)	An employee, who has worked 1000 hours in the preceding vacation year, and has one or more years of service, is eligible for a vacation in any vacation year during the term of this Agreement. Overtime. Workers' Compensation, sickness, and paid general holidays will be counted as hours worked.
(b)	An employee who has been unable to take his vacation due to a work incurred injury, off the job accident, or sickness, may, upon submitting a written request, receive his earned vacation pay at anytime during the 12 month period subsequent to his anniversary date, but not later than December 31 st following his anniversary date.
(c)	Employees must take their full vacation entitlement within the 12 month period subsequent to their anniversary date; however, an option to request vacation pay in lieu of vacation time off for a third (3rd), fourth (4th) or fifth (5th) week of vacation entitlement is available on completion of at least two (2) weeks vacation.
11.02
(a)	Employees who have completed the required years of continuous service with the Employer as of their anniversary date, will be entitled to the following vacation:
Years of Service
Less than 10 years
Vacation Vacation Weeks Pay
18 days pay for 8 hour shifts or 12 days pay for 12 hour shifts OR 6% times the gross earnings earned during the previous vacation year, whichever is greater.
More than 10 years 4
More than 15 years 5
24 days pay for 8 hour shifts or 16 days pay for 12 hour shifts OR 8% times the gross earnings earned during the previous vacation year, whichever is greater.
30 days pay for 8 hour shifts or 20 days pay for 12 hours shifts OR 10% times the gross earnings earned during the previous vacation year, whichever is greater.
Employees are entitled to receive their vacation time off and accrue vacation pay in the calendar year in which their anniversaries fall. Each employee, upon completion of his first year of service shall take his vacation in the calendar year of his first anniversary. Thereafter, subject to the provisions of this Article 11, each employee shall have his vacation scheduled at any time during the calendar year regardless of his anniversary date.
11.03
For eight hour shift employees, a vacation week shall consist of seven (7) consecutive days for all employees who work Monday through Friday. For all employees who work 7-1,7-2, 7-4, or 10-4, shift schedules, a vacation week shall be one complete shift rotation plus appropriate days df as per the 7-1,7-2, 7-4 shift schedule vacation entitlement.
For twelve hour shift employees, a week of vacation shall consist of one (1) shift rotation or four (4) days off plus four (4) working days plus four (4) days off.
11.04	Scheduling of Vacations I Vacation Shutdown
(a)	The employer may elect to take a vacation shutdown and schedule employee vacations during that time. Notification of vacation shutdown periods shall be communicated by March 1st. Employees shall submit vacation requests by March 31. All approved scheduled vacation will be posted by April 30. Unscheduled vacation time remaining will be granted, based on operational requirements, on a first come, first served basis following the granting of scheduled vacation.
Where possible, time designated as a vacation shutdown shall be scheduled to coincide with the major school vacation periods. No designated single vacation shutdown period shall be longer than 30 calendar days.
(b)	Where work is required during a vacation shutdown the work available shall be offered to the employees normally scheduled to work in their department, classification and shift on a seniority basis. Failing
21
acceptance, the work shall be ass gned to tne most junior employee(S) norma ly scheoJed to work in that department, class fication and shift
(o) Vacat ons lor e g ble employees shall oe sched j eo throughout ca endar year whenever the employee des res tnem, proviaed the Employer reserves the right to a I otment of vacation periods in oraer to ensure orderly operat ons of the m ne.
(a) At tne option of tne employee, al vacat ons may betaken at one (1) t me. or two ,2) or tnree (3) d fferent perods, but each period w II be at least one week in durat on
11 05
Vacation pay will be paid on the regular pay day, calculated at the employee's base rate for the pay period in which vacation is taken.
11.06	Termination
Vacation pay for employees who leave the employment of the Employer lor whatever reason shall be computed as follows:
(a)	Term naled employees who have not comp etea the r Irst year of serv ce snail receive the appropr ate percentage of earn ngs as aefined n 11 02
(b)	Employees who have not taken their vacat ons and wno have passed tne r anniversary date in tne calendar year of tneir terminat on wi I rece ve tneir vacation ent tlement as per Art c e 11 Q2 lor the completeo year pi js the appropr ate percentage of earnings lor months worked alter his last anniversary
(c)	Employees who have taken all vacations earned shall receive the appropriate percentage commensurate with years of service, as per 11.02, upon termination for months worked after his last anniversary except as provided in 11.07.
11.07
Any employee 62 years of age and over who terminates or retires shall be paid a pro-rata portion of his vacation entitlement or a percentage of his earninas for that vacation year, whichever is greater.
Article 12 RATES OF PAY
12.01	Wage Scales
The Employer agrees to pay its employees covered hereby, and the Union agrees that its members will accept, wages for work performed in the various classifications contained inthe Schedule of Waaes set forth in Exhibit" A and Exhibit“C” attached hereto.
22
12.02	New Classifications
(a)	The Employer shall not establish a new job classification until the Union has been notified in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to the new job classification becoming operational. The wage rate for such newjob classification shall be established by Agreement between the Employer andthe Union.
(b)	In the event the Union andthe Employer cannot agree on a wage rate within the thirty (30)day period specified in 12.02(a), the Employer will assign an interim rate andthe parties will proceed to Arbitration.
The final adjustment will be retroactive for the hours worked onthejob.
12.03	Dual Classification
In the case cf an employee working in a dual capacity he shall be paid the raie that is highest for the class of work performed on any one shift.
Tradespeople working in Maintenance A with two recognized trades certifications or more covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement will receive an additional .50 cents per hour in addition to the regular trades rate.
12.04	Overrates
On application of the "red circle" raies it is understood that the employee will not have his overrate reduced so long as he remains in the classification inwhich he holds the overrate. When he moves to another classification he will be paid the contract rate for the classification.
12.05	Shift Differential
(a)	For employees working eight hour shifts, shift differential shall be paid as follows:
1.	For an employee on one shift (steady day shift) no premium.
2.	For an employee working two (^shifts (day shift plus night shift or afternoon shift) shall receive $0.20 per hour premium for all hours worked.
3.	For an employee working three (3) shifts or steady afternoon and night shift only, or steady night shift, shall receive $0.25 per hour premium for all hours worked.
(b)	For employees working twelve hour shifts, shift differential shall be paid as follows:
23
1.	Foranemployeeworkingone(l) shift(steadydayshift),no premium shall be paid.
2.	Effectively 1,2000 employeesworking (2) shifts (day shift and night shift), the employee shall receive forty five cents (45 cents) perhourpremiumforall hours worked.
(c)	Shift differential shall be paid for all hours worked, except as stated in (a)1 or(b)1.
12.06
(a)	Payday shall be bi-weekly on every other Thursday. The employeeshall be allowed seven (7) days hold back in order to prepare payrolls. If a general holidayfalls on the regular pay day, employeesshali be paid the last day worked before the general holiday. An employee desiring to leave the service of the Employershall, on request, be paid all the moniesdue him within two (2) working days after his request.
(b)	If the employee hasa mistake on his pay cheque, he shall be paid in full within two (2) working days after he requests so. If he does not requests©, the mistake shall be rectified on his next payday.
12.07	Relief Supervisor
(a)	Employees may perform supervisory work exempt from this Agreement on a temporary basis, not to exceed sixty (60) working days (cumulative) during any calendar year, without loss of seniority.
(b)	The Company shall notifythe Union of such an employee'stemporary transfer out of the bargainingunit and shall keep the Union posted on the number of cumulative days on a monthly basis and of the employee's returnto the bargaining unit.
(c)	Subjectto 12.07(a) above, the ReliefForeman shall revert backto his original classificationwhen not acting as a ReliefForeman.
(d)	Subject to 12.07(a) above, any Relief Foreman who reverts back to his originalclassificationshall be exempt and excused from any and all obligations or requirements lo pay new or additional initiationfees, dues or other such amounts because of his having performedwork pursuant to the provisions of this Article.
Article 13 HOURSOF WORK AND OVERTIME
13.01
(a)	Theworkweekshallcommence12.01 A.M.Sunday
24
The Employer may implement the following shift schedules on a simultaneous basis:
(b)
1.	Five (5) consecutive shins Monday through Friday on a one, two or three shift basis and/or.
2.	Seven (7) days worked and one (1) day of rest followed by seven (7) days worked and two (2)daysof restfollowed by seven (7) days worked and four (4) days of rest on a one, two or three shift basis as per schedule #1,
3.	The attached letter of understanding as agreed respecting the 10-4; 10-4 shift.
4.	A condensed work week schedule consisting of four (4) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts followed by four (41 consecutive days of rest.
13.02
Overtime at one and one-half times (1 1/2X) the regular wage rate shall be paid for 8 hour shift employees as follows:
(a)	Any hours worked, on any day, Monday through Friday, that are notpart of the regular eight (8) hour schedule for that week.
(b)	Any hours worked in excess of forty (40) straight time hours per week.
(c)	Any hours worked on scheduled days off except where the day off is a Sunday at which time all hours worked shall be paid at two times (2X) the regular wage rate.
13.03
The following shift schedule premium shall apply for eight (8) hour shift employees:
(a)	All hours worked on Saturday shall be paid at a premium rate of one and one-half times (1-1 /2X) the regular wage rate.
(b)	All hours worked on Sunday shall be paid at a premium rate of one and one-half (1-1/2X) except that when the fifth or sixth consecutive scheduled shift falls on a Sunday, then all hours worked on that day shall be paid at two times (2X) the regular wage rate.
13.04
For eight (8) hour shift employees, all hours paid on a holiday (as established in Article 10 - Holidays) whether worked or not, shall be counted as hours worked in determining overtime under the provisions of this Article.
25
13.05
The following shift schedule premium is to be paid to employees working the "4
and 4"". twelve (12) hour compressed work week schedule:
(a)	Employees on the condensed work week schedule consisting of four (4)
consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts followed by four (4) consecutive days of rest shall work their scheduled twelve (12) hour shift at ten (10) hours times their regular straight time hourly rate and two (2) hours at one and one halftimes (1 1/2X) the regular straight time rate.
(5) The two (2)hour overtime premium will not be paid in the event the hours worked in excess of ten (10) fall on a statutory holiday which the employee works and for which he receives statutory holiday pay.
(C) Article 13.02(a), (b), (c); 13.03(a), (b) and 13.04 will not apply to
employees working the "4 and 4". twelve (12) hour shift schedule. Rather, time worked in excess of ten (10) hours in a day will be paid as described above and time worked on the employee's regularly scheduled day of rest will be paid at one and one-half times (1 1/2X) the employee's regular hourly rate except if the day of rest is Sunday when the rate of pay will be double time (2X).
13.06
Relief to Relief
(a)	The marshalling point shall be the wash house.
(b)	An employee working on continuous or semi-continuous operations shall continue to work at their designated working place until they are relieved, unless directed otheiwise by their supervisor.
(C) A mine operations employee working on continuous or semi-continuous operations shall be paid a premium for each complete shift worked at the employee's designated working place. Should the total of the employee's time worked exceed the work shift by more than twenty (20) minutes, the time in excess of the twenty (20) minutes shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate as though it were an extension of the work shift.
The mine operations premium shall be:
Twenty (20) minutes per day at one and one-half times (1-1/2X) their regular wage rate.
26
13.07
Eight (8) hoursworkfor8 hour shift employees or twelve (12) hours work for twelve (12) hour shift employees commencing at the designated marshalling point will constitute a workday for all employees.
13.08
(a)	All overtime shall be voluntary.
In cases where the employer deems that critical or emergency work is necessary, employees may be requiredto continue work up to a maximum of sixteen (16) consecutive hours. Employeeswho are required to stay for emergency or critical overtime work shall be entitled to nine (9) hours rest, commencing at the conclusion of the overtime period, before they begin their next regularly scheduled shift. Shouldthe rest periodcontinue into the employee's regularly scheduled shift, the employee will be paid for any regularly scheduled time missed as a result of the rest period.
Employees performing emergency or critical work during their regularly scheduled shift will first be provided with the overtime opportunity. Failing acceptance, preference will then be given on a seniority basis. If overtime
is refused by all employeeswithinthe classificationand shift, the junior employee(s) within the classificationand shift will be requiredto stay.
(b)	in all departments, a system of equitable distribution of overtime beyond an employee's normal work schedule shall be established where each employee shall have the opportunity ofovertime within his regularshift, classification,and work area.
Lists shall be established in each department and classification and shift startingwith the most senior employee and so on down in seniority.
A recordof overtime and/or refusalof overtime shall be kept on such lists. If an employee refuses overtime he shall be considered as having worked that overtime. Once an individual has worked overtime or has refusedto work overtime he shall not have another opportunity until all other employees on the list within his shift, classificationand area have the opportunity to work or refuse such offeredovertime.
(C) For overtime planned in advanceon general holidays, the senior
employee shall have the opportunity of first refusalof overtime within the classificationand work area in which the overtime is required. The next senior employee shall then have the opportunity, and so on. This would apply to the shifts that would have normally been scheduled to work that day. The only exception shall be a call in for start-up.
27
13.09
In the event an employee is requested to change shift during his regular
scheduled work week, such employee will be paid overtime for hours worked
only on the first shift of the changed schedule.
13.10
Any employee being injured during his shift will be paid for the full shift.
13.11
(a)	For eight (8) hour shift employees, it is agreed that each employeewill
have two (2) short rest breaks each not exceeding a durationof ten (10) minutes in addition to the twenty (20) minutes already provided for lunch, one preferablein the first half of the shift, and the second preferably in the second half of the shift on the distinct understanding that the continuity of the operations is not affected.
(a) Fortwelve (12) hour shift employees, it is agreed that each employeewill have two (2) rest breaks each not exceeding a duration (f fifteen (15) minutesin addition to the thirty (30) minutes already provided for lunch; one preferablyin the first half ofthe shift, and the second preferably in the second half of the shift on the distinct understanding that the continuity of the operations is not affected.
(c)	Fortwelve (12) hour shift Pit employees, it is agreed that each employee will have two (2) rest breaks each not exceeding a durationof thirty (30) minutes, one preferably in the first half of the shift. and the second preferably in the second half of the shift on the distinct understandingthat the continuity of the operations is not affected.
13.12
There shall be no pyramiding of overtime or any other premiums.
28
Article 14 SAFETY
14.01
Appropriate safety devices and practices for the purpose of protecting the employee from injury, accident or unhealthy conditions of work shall be employed.
14.02
The Employer shall maintain an accident prevention committee comprised of representatives of the Employer and the Union to be known as the "Occupational Health and Safety Committee".
14.03
It is understood and agreed that the parties to this Agreement shall at all times comply with the accident prevention regulations; as they pertain to the coal mining industry, as set by the relevant legislation in the Province of Alberta, and safety regulations instituted by the Employer and the Occupational Health and Safety Committee. Any refusal on the part of an employee to perform an unsafe act in contravention of the said regulations shall not be deemed to be a violation tf the Agreement. Nor shall an employee be disciplined for such refusal.
14.04
These members of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall be duly elected by their fellow employees.
14.05
The Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall meet once each month. There will be a complete inspection tour of each operation and also an inspection of each bus that transports employees to and from the minesite. The Employer shall supply the Union with a monthly mechanical inspection certificate of each bus.
14.06
The Safety Steward on shift shall immediately be notified of all accidents, and:
(a) Shall have the right to investigate those accidents involving personal injury requiring first aid treatment other than for minor injuries.
(5) Shall have the right to investigate all major accidents or serious happenings in the operation.
29
(C) Safety Stewards shall be paid by the Employer. at their regular classified rate for ail time spent investigatingaccidents, serious happenings, inspectiontours and meetings
14.07
The Chairman of the OccupationalHealthand Safety Committeewill alternate
between the Union and the Employer's representative every six (6) months.
14.08
One copy of the minutes of the monthly meetings shall be retainedat the Mine
Office, a second copy forwarded to the Local Union and a third CODY forwarded to
the appropriategovernmentalagency.
14.09
(a)	Where any unsafecondition is found or reportedto any Safety Steward on shift; that Safety Steward will have the right to inspect the situation along with the supervisor.
(b)	When any significantunsafe condition is reported, it shall be investigated
by a Union member of the Joint OccupationalHealthand Safety Committee and a Supervisor. lithe Committeeman and the Supervisordo not agree that the condition is unsafeand what remedy, ifany, is to be taken, a qualified individualshall be called in to assess the condition and recommendsuch corrective action as may be necessary.
(c)	A worker may refuse to do any particular act or series of acts at work which he has sufficientgrounds to believe are dangerousto his health or safety, the health and safety of his co-workers or any one on the mine site and in such circumstancesno disciplinaryaction will be taken against him. If an employee refusesto perform his assignedduties without sufficient grounds he may be subject to discipline. At the time of refusalthe employee must specify the unsafe conditionswhich formed a basis for his refusal to work.
14.10
A standard set of signals be adoptedwithin each Employer'sjurisdictionto be employed by dumpmen ordumpsupervisorswhile performingtheirjob. Truck drivers are to be instructedon these signals.
30
14.11
All crews must hold a Safety meeting at least once a calendar month at the beginning of a regularly scheduled shift. The Foreman and Safety Steward shall draw up the agenda for the meeting. The meeting will provide all employees with an opportunity to ask questions pertaining to Health and Safety. These meetings will not exceed one hour in duration. The Foreman or Safety Steward will record the minutes of the meeting.
14.12	Accompanying Injured Employees
(a)	When an employee is ordered by the management to accompany an injured employee, he shall be compensated at his regular rate for time necessarily lost.
(b)	However, for eight (8) hour shift employees, in the event that an employee is so ordered during the last half of his shift, he shall not be required to return to the mine for the balance of the shift and shall receive payment at his regular rate of the full shift.
For twelve (12) hour shift employees, in the event that an employee is so ordered during the last third of his shift, he shall not be required to return to the mine for the balance of the shift and shall receive payment at his regular rate for the full shift.
14.13
The Employer shall supply all necessary safety equipment including approved respirators and/or face masks at no cost to the employee. Respirators andior face masks shall be stored in a convenient, clean and sanitary location on the job site. Respirators andior face masks shall be selected on the basis of hazards to which the employee is exposed. The Employer shall have a first aid kit on all projects. The employees must, at all times, preserve the safety equipment they use and not abuse or willfully destroy the equipment supplied by the Employer.
14.14	Physical Examinations
(a)	Whenever an employee is required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act to have periodic physical examinations, an employee shall be paid four (4) hours at his classifiedrate. The Employer shall pay the full cost of the physical examination.
(b)	The pre-employment medical, if requested by the Employer, shall be paid in full by the Employer.
(c)	The employee shall take the examination at the designated medical clinic most convenient to himself.
31
14.15	Protective Clothing
(a)	Proper protective clothing shall be available for the welders to check out of stores whenever such clothing is required (e.g. gloves, aprons, arc air hoods, etc.).
(b)	Employees are to be supplied on a loan basis with wet suits, rubber gloves, safety glasses, dust masks, and ear plugs or muffs, safety belts, by-product and protective footwear. Replacement issues will be made upon return of the previous issue.
(C) The Company will replace one set of prescription safety lenses per employee per calendar year.
14.16	Accidental Fatality inthe Mine
In the event of the death of an employee due to an accident during the course of
his shift on the mine property, all employees shall suspend work immediately and for twenty-four (24) hours following the shift on which the accident occurred.
They shall then resume work and continue work until the day of the funeral at which time all areas shall be idle to allow fellow employees to attend the funeral service. The mine shall not be idle for the funeral if it is outside the Canadian Borders.
14.17
When extreme weather conditions exist, the Employer will make adequate arrangements to limit and/or protect affected employees from prolonged exposure.
14.18
All shift bus operators shall be designated as such and shall receive training and instruction in such things as: safe vehicle operation, safety rules, and pick-up and delivery procedures. Only those who have completed this training shall be allowed to drive shift buses.
Article 15 EMPLOYEE CONDITIONS
15.01	Tools
All men working on jobs which require the use of tools such as a pick, shovel, saw or axe, are required to obtain a set of tools from or through the Employer. The Employer will supply these tools on a loan basis.
15.02
(a)	All Journeymen and Uncertified Tradesmen shall be required to have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired before they can qualify for the appropriate tradesman's rate with the 32
exception of machinery or tools which do not fall within the responsibility of the tradesman. The Company shall provide drill bits, files, emery cloth, wire brushes, and hacksaw blades as designated by Department Heads.
(b) Those tradesmen and apprentices who must buy and maintain their own tools, including conversion to metrictools, shall receive a tool allowance for each shift worked on the following basis:
TOOL ALLOWANCE SCHEDULE
Tradesmen, Apprentices, and Servicemen
Effective July 1,1998
8 Hr. Shift	12 Hr.	Shift
Group I	$2.25	$3.00
Heavy Duty Mechanic Millwright
Instrument Mechanic Motor Mechanic Mine Electrician Apprentices (Group I)
Group II	$1-50	$1.90
Welder Machinist Serviceman Apprentices (Group II)
Serviceman Trainees
15.03
(a)	Proper wash house facilities with hot and cold running water or mixed hot/cold running water shall be provided by the Employer. Waterless hand cleaner shall be provided by the Employer where necessary at the Employer's discretion.
(b)	Every employee shall have one (1) full size locker for dirty clothes and one (1) (72" X 12"X 1 5) locker for hisclean clothes. Lockers shall be in separate rooms.
15.04
(a)	All employees will receive a "Safety Equipment Allowance" of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month.
(b)	The Safety Equipment Allowance paid to all employees under this Agreement shall be in lieu of any previous past practice as it relates to the Serviceman Classification.
33
15.05 Access to Mine
Access to Company facilities will be made available to Union officials designated by the International.
Article 16 SICKNESS AND DEATH BENEFITS
16.01
(a) The Company agrees to pay the premium on behalf of each employee to provide the following benefits:
1.	A payment of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) to the designated beneficiary or estate of each employee in the event of the employee's death by natural causes (on or off the job).
2.	A payment of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) to the designated beneficiary or to the estate of each employee in the event of the employee's accidental death (on or off the job).
3.	A payment of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) for the loss of both hands, both feet, sight of both eyes. one hand and one foot, one hand and sight of one eye, or one foot and sight of one eye.
4.	A payment of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) for the loss of one hand, one foot, sight of one eye or total hearing cf either ear.
5.	In the event of total disability of any employee the death benefit of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) will be maintained so long as proof is provided every three months of the continued total disability and will continue without cost to employee up to but not beyond the age of 65.
6.	Article 16.01 (a) shall be effective on the first day of employment of every employee.
(b)	1 • The Employer agrees to pay premiums to provide a payment of a
weekly indemnity benefit for each employee in event of total disability resulting from sickness or off-the-job accident up to a maximum of fifty two (52) weeks for each period of disability.
Effective July 01,2005, this benefitwill increase to seven hundred dollars ($700.00) per week for new claimants only.
2.	The weekly indemnity benefit payment for eight (8) hour employees shall commence on:
(i)	The 4th day of sickness
34
(ii)	The 1st day of an off-the-job accident.
(iii)	The 1 st day of hospitalization.
3.	The weekly indemnity benefit payment for twelve (12) hour employees shall commence on:
(j) The 3rd day of sickness.
(ii)	The 1st day of an off-the-job accident.
(iii)	The 1st day of hospitalization.
4.	It is a condition of employment that all employees will join and remain in these benefits plans (16.01(a) and (b)).
16.02
The Employer shall pay the total cost cf the plans described in 16.01 (a) and (b).
16.03
The Employer agrees to pay 100% of the actual Medicare (Alberta Health Care) premium cost and to pay 100% of the actual supplementary health care (Alberta Blue Cross or equivalent) premium cost for all employees covered by this Agreement. The supplementary health care shall provide 100% payment of prescription drug costs.
16.04	Insurance on Employee's Clothing
The Employer will insure employee's clothing in the wash house against loss by fire to maximum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) in each individual case.
16.05	Dental Care Plan
The Company shall pay the premium cost of a Dental Care program for the
employee, his spouse, and their dependent children underthe age of nineteen (19) years. Effective January 1, 1995 this benefitwill include children underthe age of twenty six (26) in the case of a full-time student wholly dependent on the employee for support. The level of benefits subject to the terms of the insuring company's policies, procedures, and regulations shall be as follows:
(a) Basic Dental Benefits (Plan A) -100% coverage.
Major Restorative Benefits (Plan B) -100% coverage
(j) Effective July 01,2003, Plan A and Plan B will be increased to a combined maximum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per contract year, per insured individual.
35
(ji) This maximum will be reviewed annually and adjusted on July 1 each year to reflect the percentage increase in the previous year's Alberta Dental Fee Guide, rounded to the nearest twenty five ($25.00).
Orthodontic Benefits (Plan C) - 50% coverage to a lifetime maximum of two thousand dollars ($2,000) per insured individual.
16.06
(a)	LongTerm Disability insurance will be provided commencing after fifty-two (52) weeks of disability and continuing to a maximum of age sixty-five (65) for eligible employees. The amount of such disability benefitto be paid to new claimants, shall be one thousand and eight hundred and fifty dollars ($1, 850.00) per calendar month, reduced by the amount of compensation an employee receives from the Workers' Compensation Board.
(b)	The cost of the LongTerm Disability premiums of the plan will be borne by the Company.
(C) Additionally, employees who are receiving benefits underthe LongTerm Disability insurance program will be entitled to receive the lollowing benefits under the Collective Agreement
1.	Life Insurance
2.	Dental Care
3.	Medicare (Alberta Health Care)
4.	Supplementary Health
The level of benefits will be those in effect at the time the individual qualifies for the Long Term Disability benefit. Employees receiving Long Term Disability insurance will not be eligible for any other benefits under the Collective Agreement.
The individual shall retain his seniority as of the time of becoming disabled but shall not accrue seniority for time while receiving Long Term Disability benefits.
16.07	Vision Care Program
The Company shall pay the premiums for the establishment of a vision care program for the employee, his spouse, and their dependent children underthe age of nineteen (l^years (Effective January 1,1995 this benefit will include children underthe age cf twenty six (26) in the case of a full-time student wholly dependent on the employee for support) which will provide payments for frames and lenses to a maximum of three hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00) every twenty-four (24) months per insured family member.
36
16.08
Other features of the Sickness and Death Benefits program shall be standard and established by the Company, and shall be discussed with the Union before being established.
Article 17 LEAVEOF ABSENCE
17.01
Leave of absence on compassionate grounds or for long journeys will not be unreasonably withheld by the Employer.
When death occurs in an employee's immediate family (spouse, mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son, daughter, brother, or sister, grandmother, grandfather, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandchildren) an employee, upon request, will be excused for up to three (3) consecutive days. The employee shall receive pay at his regular straight time rate for any such excused shifts he would have worked in such three (3) consecutive days provided it is established that he attended the funeral.
17.02	Jury Duty
When an employee is called for jury service, or subpoenaed as a Crown witness (prosecution or defense), he shall be excused from work on the days he is required to appear in court. Employees called for jury or witness duty, upon proof of such service and of the amount of pay received therefore, will be paid
whatever sum, if any, is necessary in addition to the fees received for jury/witness duty service to reimburse him for earnings lost because of such duty.
Article 18 JOB POSTINGS
18.01
(a)	In all cases of advancement through the job grouping system the senior employee shall have preference.
(b)	All permanent job vacancies not in the job grouping system which will be filled through the bid procedure will be posted in the dry for a period of eight (8) calendar days during which time bids will be accepted. Copies of all postings will be sent to the Local Union office.
37
(c)	The following job vacancies will be filled through job postings open to all bargaining unit employees:
Entry Level	Plant Operator	I	Shop Labourer
Equipment Operator I	Pumperson	Refuse Truck
Maintenance Utility	Washbay Attendant	Shovel Utility
Blaster's Helper	Serviceperson	Drill Utility
Backhoe
Plant Utility (filled in the processing plant from Equipment Operator III)
Crane Operator (filled through employees in maintenance dept)
Tradespeople (opento internal applicants who have already held the position at the operation)
Should training programs be developed for the preceding positions or for any classification outside the job grouping system created hereafter, the most senior employee successfully completing the company training programs will be awarded the position through the job posting procedure.
18.02
Selection from those employees applying on job postings will be made by the Employer in accordance with paragraph 8.01. The selected applicant will be advised within five (5) calendar days from the date of closing of the posting. Notification of the successful applicant will be posted in the dry for a period of eight (8) days. Copies of all successful applicant postings will be sent to the Local Union office. Selection from those employees applying on job postings will be made by the Employer in accordance with marginal paragraph 8.01.
18.03
When vacancies exist for a period greater than 90 days as a result of shortterm disability or workers' compensation, the Company shall post the vacancy with the understanding that the displaced employee, upon returning to work, shall return to his original position. The employee holding that position during the absence of the displaced employee shall revert to his former position. All other positions affected shall also revert.
(a)	When the vacancy exists for longer than one year it shall be reposted as a permanent position.
(b)	Employees on LTD or WCB who return to work after an absence of greater than one year shall either:
(i) Replace a less senior employee in their previous job position or, if no such employee is less senior,
38
(jj) Replace a less senior employee in a classification in which he has paid Company experience.
18.04
(a)	There shall be no time limitation for an employee who bids on a permanent job vacancy within a Job Group which carries a higher wage rate than his current rate. However, an employee will not be entitled to bid on a permanent job vacancy within the same Job Group or one carrying a lower wage rate than his present rate for a period of twelve (12) months since his last job change under this procedure unless mutually agreeable to the Employer and the Union.
(b)	Employees hired for a specific department and employees bidding into a specific department shall remain in his chosen department for a minimum of one year. Without prejudice to the foregoing, employees shall be allowed to bid on an apprenticeship or trainee job vacancy regardless df the time spent in a particular department.
/c) Departments shall be defined as:
Plant	- (includes all plant operating and mechanical crews)
Pit	-(includes all mine operating crews, but does not include any mechanical or electrical trades)
Maintenance	-(includes all shop, shovel and drill, gas shop maintenance, building and ground maintenance and servicing crews)
Warehouse	-(includes all receiving, shipping and wicket warehousemen)
Electrical	-(includes all instrumentation, shop, plant electricians and lineman crews)
18.05
(a)	i n the event that there are no applicants, the Employer reserves the right to promote the junior employee(s) trained for the job, or if no trained personnel are available to fill the job from any other source.
(b)	Should an employee refuse a promotion as provided in Article (a) above to a position for which he has been trained, he will be required to bid out (f the training program within one (1) month, providing a bid has been posted for which he is qualified.
39
18.06
An employee accepting a new positionor posted vacancy shall be allowed a probationary training period not to exceed fifteen (15) workdays working on the
job. Subject to Article 18.04, all applicants who bid on jobs and are chosen according to the terms of the job posting procedure will be given proper instructions by the supervisorand/or through the training programsestablished in the respective departments.
18.07
Employeeswho do not successfully complete the probationary period will revert to their former position. Such employees will not be eligibleto re-bid on that job for a period of six (6) months.
18.08
Labourer positions are entry leveljobs and will therefore not be subjectto the job posting procedure.
18.09 Shift Trainer
(a)	The Company shall appoint senior qualified employees as shift trainers who shall work in cooperation with the staff trainers and shift foreman training employees on mobile equipment in the pit operation and assisting in upgrading operator's abilities and skills.
(b)	The shift trainers shall be consulted as to a trainee's progress but the final determination as to the trainee's ability to operate alone shall be the responsibility of a staff trainer.
(c)	Subjectto clause 12.03 the shift trainer shall revert backto his original classification and rate when not actively training.
(d)	A shift trainer shall not have the authority to hire, discharge, promote, discipline, or otherwise effect changes in the status of employeesor effectively recommend a change in status or disciplinary action.
(e)	The Company shall notifythe Union in writing of the names cf all employees who have been appointed as shift trainers within three (3) days of the appointment.
(f)	An employee designated as a shift trainer shall be paid fifty cents ($0.50) per hour over his regular hourly rate of pay when actively training.
40
ARTICLE 19
TRAINING
19.01
(a) The company will ensure that a proper and timely training schedule shall be put in place to provide for the advancement of all employees who seek to progress through the equipment operator program.
Training will be awarded based on seniority.
Note: Equipment Operators
1.	Within the equipment operator progression there are four functions defined for progression purposes. They are: loader, dozer, grader, and haulage truck.
2,	Wage progression from level to level will be through qualifications (experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability) in accordance with the following:
Level	Qualifications	Job Class
Equipment	4 of 4 types of	8
Operator IV	equipment	
Equipment	3 of 4 types of	7.5
Operator N/	equipment	
Equipment	2 of 4 types of	7
Operator II	equipment	
Equipment	Haulage Truck	6
Operatorl	Driver	
Note. ProcessOperators
1. Within the process operator progressionthere are four functions defined for progression purposes. They are: coarse operator, fines operator. dryer and load-out.
level	Qualifications	Job Class
Sr. Process Operator	Completedall functions	8
Process Operator III	Completed 3 of 4 functions	7
Process Operator Il	Completed2 of4 functions	5
ProcessOperator I	Entry level	3
4]
(b) The following job vacancies will be filled through the Identified lines of progression:
Job Progression: Shovel Operator
Progress To*
All Employees	Shovel Utility Trainee	Senior Shovel Utility I Shovel
Operator
.....Job Progression: Driller _______ __________
Employees
_....................Job Progression: Control Room Operator_______ ________
.Opeti.to 'JoSTWted "	' "^"^uccessful..................
Senior Process Op —> Control Room Operator —» Senior Senior Process Operator
19.02	Where applicable, employees shall follow the training schedule in Exhibits “B" and “C"
19.03	Training hours will be established based on recommendations from the
best practices teams. D teams do not identify training requirements tor specific
jobs training hours will be agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
Article 20 APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
20.01	Purpose
(a)	The purpose of this program will be to provide the Employer with a pool of trained tradespeople and to provide Cardinal River Operations' employees with the opportunity to achieve trades certification through an on site apprenticeship.
(b)	To this end a committee will be established consisting of two (2) Employer representatives and two (2) Union representatives. The purpose of this committee will be to ensure apprenticeship selection, training and certification occurs in an efficient and orderly manner.
20.02	Posting
42
(a)	Applicants will be chosen according to the Job Posting provisions, subject however, to their possessing the menial and physical capacity to perform the job.
(b)	If an apprenticeship vacancy becomes available because of a withdrawal of an apprentice the vacancy shall be posted at entry level.
20.03	General
(a)	In the event that an apprentice fails the tests at the end of their period of training in the vocational school, the apprentice will be given an opportunity to re-attend that period of training provided, however, their on-the-job training evaluation indicates favourable progress. Should the apprentice fail to repeat the period of training they shall be required to withdraw from the program.
(b)	While the apprentice is engaged in attending vocational school as part of his apprenticeship training, he shall receive payment from the Employer in the amount of forty (40) hours per week times his hourly wage rate as specified in Exhibit "A", less any Government subsidy received.
(c)	All apprentices shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and be inthe general process of building up the necessary tools to equip themselves for the job.
(d)	All Journey tradespeople shall be required to have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job before they can qualify for the journeyman's rate, with the exception of machinery or tools which do not fall within the responsibility of the Journeyperson.
Article 21 ABSENTEEISM/DISCIPLINE
21.01
(a)	Should an employee be unable to report to work at the beginning of his shift, i.e. late, he shall make a reasonable effort to notify the Security Officer before his shift begins.
(b)	When an employee absents himself for one shift in any one (1) month he shall make a reasonable effort to notify his Supervisor prior to the shift on which he would have been absent.
(c)	When an employee absents himself from work for a period of two (2) consecutive days or for any three (3) non-consecutive days in any month, unless by proven sickness or by first having properly arranged with the Foreman or Manager and obtained his consent. he may be disciplined.
(d)	Any employee who habitually absents himself from work, except in cases of sickness proven by a Doctor's certificate, may be discharged.
43
Disciplinary Procedures
Every employee shall have the right to have a Union representative present whenever disciplinary action istaken pertaining to suspension and/or discharge.
Employees' signatures appearing on disciplinary documents or personal files shall be interpreted to indicate receipt df the document only and not necessarily Agreement with the content.
All detrimental reports shall be removed from an employee's employment record one (1) year after issue and will not be considered in disciplinary actions thereafter.
Employees shall be made aware of all detrimental and disciplinary reports that are to be placed on their personnel files. Employees shall receive a copy of their personal calendar in March and September of each year.
Article 22 CHRISTMAS BONUS
All employees who have one (1) year's continuous service as of December 1st of any one year shall receive a Christmas Bonus df one hundred and twenty five dollars ($125.00) payable on the pay day prior to Christmas. Those employees with less than one (1) year's continuous service as of December 1st shall receive a pro-rata payment.
Article 23 EMPLOYEETRANSPORTATION
23.01
Transportation cf all employees between Hintonand the mine site shall be provided by the Employer at no cost to the employees using coach style busses or another mutually agreed to form cf transportation.
Schedules, routing and central pick-up points will be agreed upon between the Employer and the Union.
The Employer will not be responsible for any employee missing transportation in Hinton, or at the mine site unless the employee is detained at the request of the Employer.
Conduct on the bus shall be inaccordance with regulations established by the Employer and the Union.
23.02
The Employer shall provide transportation from the mine site to home in case of emergencies, or to a medical facility in cases of sickness or injury requiring transportation.
21.02
(a)
(b)
(o)
(d>
44
The Employer will be responsible for time lost by employees due to late arrival of the bus at the mine site. Employees who refuse alternate transportation will not be compensated for time lost.
23.03
Transportation from the mine site to Hinton shall be scheduled to eliminate employees from waiting after shift for those employees who hot change.
Article 24 SENIORITY LIST
The Company agrees to provide a seniority list of employees covered by this Agreement in January, May, and September of each calendar year. The Company agrees to send one copy to the Union Office and have copies posted behind plexi-glass in all wash houses.
Article 25 INCOME TAX DEDUCTIONS
All deductions, including Union dues, as allowed for tax purposes by the Income Tax Branch will be shown on the employees' earnings slip at the end of each tax year.
Article 26 SEVERANCE PAY
26.01
(a)	If at the time of layoff no return to work date Is given, then the laid off employees are eligible for severance pay at the time of layoff notice.
(b)	If the return to work date is greater than thirty (30) days hence, then laid off employees are eligible for severance pay at the time of layoff.
(c)	Where the total number of days laid off exceeds thirty (30) days in any twelve (12) month period, the employees shall be entitled to severance pay.
(d)	Should the Company be forced to layoff any employees for an indefinite period due to a shortage of work, then those employees laid off will be eligible for a severance payment of four (4Jhours pay per month of service at the employee's regular rate cf pay up to a maximum of five hundred (500) hours provided that:
(1)	Employees accept the severance pay as final termination of
employment with the Company and will no longer be eligible for any recall rights under the Collective Agreement.
(e)	It is understood that the above provisions will apply to employees retiring at age sixty two (62) or over and to employees going on long term disability benefits or dying. Termination of employment for reasons other
45
than those stated above (i.e. quits or discharge for cause), are not to be construed as a layoff.
It is further understood that the above benefits are payable in addition to the technological change provisions in Article 8.
Article 27 HOT MEALS
(a)	Whenever an employee works two (2) hours beyond his normal shift, he will be entitled to a hot meal and beverage. A hot meal and beverage will be made available to the employee every additional four hours worked thereafter.
(b)	If an employee works an eight (8) hour shift before his regular shift, he will be entitled to the same benefits as Paragraph (a):
(1)	on his normal shift,
(2)	employees on "call out" for a period in excess of four (4) hours, and who continue to work into their regular shift, will be entitled to hot meals and beverages in accordance with Paragraph (a).
Article 28 COST OF AGREEMENTS
The Employer shall pay the total cost of:
(a)	The memorandum of Agreements (one copy per employee), and,
(b)	Printed Agreements will be supplied to all employees within sixty (60) days of ratification of the Agreement.
Article 29 EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
Employees shall be allowed to inspect all their records every three (3) months. Article 30 DURATION OF AGREEMENT
30.01
To fully evaluate the impact of twelve (12) hour shift schedule, the Company and the Union agree to a trial period of six (6)months duration. However, at any time during the trial period or thereafter, ifeither party wishes to depart from this schedule, they can do so provided they give the other party thirty (30) days notice.
30.02
Except where specified in 30.01, the provisions of this Agreement shall be effective July 1,2007 and shall remain in effect until midnight June 30, 2012 and thereafter from year to year, until either party shall give notice in writing to the 46
other party of a desire to terminate, change or modify the same, not less than sixty (60) days nor more than one hundred-twenty (120) days prior to the applicable expiration date.
In witness whereof each of the parties hereto has caused this agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representative as to the date and year first above written.
47
MEMORANDUM OP AGREEMENT Between
CARDINAL RIVER OPERATIONS AND THE
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1656
Agreed this 3la day of August, 2007
ELK VALLEY COAL CORPORATION	LOCAL 1656 OF UNITED
MINEWORKERS
"T.A. PRfe»lN'’ (General Manager)
lAMPBELL”
(Union President)
•K.D. MURRAY’
D. DEBRINSKT
'I.K.-RN PERSON*
UAISL
“C. RACE'1
"TTSNOWDEN'
‘R.J. DOUGLAS'


48
SCHEDULE#!
SHI FT SCHEDULE FROM WHICH A "ONE". "TWO" OR "THREE" SHI FT SYSTEM MAY BE EFFECTED
SUN.
OFF
P.R.
(A)
P.R.
(D)
P.R.
(N)
MON. TUE.
OFF S.T. (A)
S.T.
(D)
S.T.
(N)
S.T.
(N)
WED.
S.T.
(A)
S.T. OFF S.T. (A)	(D)
S.T. OFF
<D)
S.T.
(N)
THURS.
S.T.
(A)
S.T.
(D)
OFF
S.T.
(N)
FRI. SAT.
S.T.
(A)
S.T.
(□)
S.T.
(N)
P.R.
(A)
P.R.
(D)
P.R.
(N)
OFF OFF
SCHEDULE#2
SUN.	MON.	TUE.	WED.	THURS.	FRI.	SAT.
OFF	OFF	OFF	OFF	D	D	D
D	OFF	OFF	OFF	OFF	N	N
N	N	OFF	OFF	OFF	OFF	D
D	D	D	OFF	OFF	OFF	OFF
OFF - SCHEDULED DAYS OFF DAY SHIFT PREMIUM TIME
(A) -	AFTERNOON SHIFT
STRAIGHT TIME (N) -	NIGHT SHIFT
49
EXHIBIT " A
Standard Hourly Rates of Pay
Job Class	Classification	Rate EFF. July 1, 2007	Rate EFF. July t, 2008	Rate EFF. July 1, 2009	Rate EFF. July 1, 2010	Rate EFF. July 1, 2011
10.	Journey Tradesperson A	30.56	31.48	32.42	33.39	34.39
9.	Journey Tradesperson B Shovel Operator Control Room Operator	28.65	29.51	30.40	31.31	32.25
8.	Senior Process Operator Equipment Operator IV Driller Blaster Crane Operator	27.87	28.71	29.57	30.46	31.37
7.5	Equipment Operator III Plant Utility	27.63	28.46	29.31	30.19	31.10
7.	Equipment Operator II Process Operator III Serviceperson Pit Backhoe Operator	27.40	28.22	29.07	29.94	30.84
6.	Equipment Operator 1 Shovel Utility 1 Refuse Truck	27.15	27.96	28.80	29.66	30.55
5.	Pumperson Drill Utility 1 Shovel Utility II Blaster’s Helper Process Operator II	26.68	27.48	28.30	29.15	30.02
4.	Drill Utility tl	26.21	27.00	27.81	28.64	29.50
3.	Washbay attendant Tool Crib Attendant Shovel Utility Trainee Process Operator 1	25.97	26.75	27.55	28.38	29.23
2.	Maintenance Utility Drill Utility Trainee	25.37	26.13	26.91	27.72	28.55
1.	Labourer	24.15	24.87	25.62	26.39	27.18
50
APPRENTICE RATES
FOUR YEAR PROGRAM:
2007	2008	2009 2010	2011
July 1	July 1 July 1 July 1 July 1
1st Year (0-12 months) 2nd Year (13-24 months) 3rd Year (25 - 36 months) 4th Year (37 - 48 months)
25.09
26.30
26.86
28.01
25.84
27.09 27.67
28.84
26.62
27.90
28.50
29.71
27.42
28.74
29.36
30.60
28.24
29.60
30.24 31.52
THREE YEAR PROGRAM:
1 st Year (O -12 months) 2nd Year (13-24 months) 3rd Year (25 - 36 months)
25.09
26.40
28.01
25.84
27.19
28.84
26.62
28.01
29.71
27.42
28.85
30.60
28.24
29.72
31.52
PARTSMAN (THREE YEAR PROGRAM):
1st Year (0-12 months) 2nd Year (13-24 months) 3rd Year (25 - 36 months)
24.66
25.51
27.03
25.40
26.28
27.84
26.16
27.07
28.68
26.94
27.88
29.54
27.75
28.72
30.43
U pon successful completion a Partsman shall receive the Maintenance *B" rate.
Maintenance(B) - Other recognizedTrade Tickets
EXHIBITS" TRAINING SCHEDULE
1. SHOVEL Utility
2.
Class 6	Shovel Utility I
Class 5	Shovel Utility II
Class 3	Shovel Utility Trainee
DRILL Utility	
Class 5	Drill Utility I
Class 4	Drill Utility II
Class 2	Drill Utility Trainee
52
EXHIBITS’
PLANT TRAINING SCHEDULE
PURPOSE
To establish a standard and systematic progressive training program, beginningat entry level and ending with qualifiedoperators for bid positions.
(a) PROCEDURE
If a manpower shortage occurs due to individualsterminating or bidding out of the plant department. entry level positionsfor Process Operator Ishall be posted in order that personnel outside the plant have the opportunity to enter the plant training program.
2. A Committee of Employer and Union representatives shall decide on type and format of examinationsto be used as standard for promoting trainees.
53
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #1
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER OPERATIONS AND
UNITED MINEWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL #1656
Effective January 1,1999 the rates paid to contractors under Article 2.03(a) (0 will be reduced by forty two cents ($0.42) per hour to coincide with the roil in of travel pay into the wage rates in Exhibit "A".
54
LETTER OF AGREEMENT#2
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER OPERATIONS AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL #1656
It is agreed that a shift schedule of 10-4, (day shift only) will be implemented in the Plant Electrical, Plant Maintenance, Shop Servicing, or in any other department, as mutually agreed upon by the Employer and the Union.
It is understood and agreed upon, that either the Employerorthe Union may terminate this 10-4,10-4 shift schedule upon seven (7) days written notice being served to the other party.
Individualemployeeswho elect to work the 10-4,10-4 shift schedule, must gel the approval of their department head, but individual employeeswho do not want to work the 10-4,10-4 shift schedule, will not be requiredto do so under any circumstances.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #3
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER OPERATIONS AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL #1656
It is agreed that a joint Union ManagementCommittee consisting of representation from the Union and the Company will meet on a regular basis to develop and recommendto management programs relatedto the trades area.
This committee will be established within ninety (90) days of ratification of the Collective Agreement.
56
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #4
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER OPERATIONS AND
UNITED MINEWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL #1656
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Collective Agreement, or any other terms and conditions of employment which may be negotiated between the Company and the United Mineworkers of America concerning employees at the
Cheviot Mine, it is understood and agreed that there shall be no minimum wage rate (Article 2.03(a) (i)) in effect for construction work done at the Cheviot Mine.
It is further understood and agreed that there shall be no requirement for the
employees of any contractor, subcontractor, assignee or transferee engaged to perform construction work at the Cheviot Mine to join the U.M.W.A.
However all contractors, subcontractors, assignees and transferees shall pay to Local 1656, U.M.W.A. initiation fees and monthly dues as described in Article 2.03(c).
57
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #5
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER OPERATIONS AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
LOCAL #1656
EffectiveSeptember20, 2002, it is understood and agreed that should the Company undertake mining operations at a new site now referredto as the Cheviot Mine (located at Mountain Park, Alberta) employees of the new mining
operations shall be included in the scope ofthe Collective Agreement as specified in Article 2.
58
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #6
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER OPERATIONS AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL #1656
This will confirm that the Company and the Union will continue to work together
to increase the overall effectiveness, efficiency and viability of the Cheviot project. Both parties agree to work together to ensure the project is as cost effective and efficient as possible; to strive for continuous improvementin all aspects. Both partiesagree to work together to solve all issues, including but not limitedto safety, logistics, manpower, construction, and other concerns that may arise during the duration of this agreement.
Local1656 and Cardinal River Operations Staff recognize that the longevity of their employment is vested in the profitability of the company and are committed to maintain and fostera safe, harmoniousand productive workplace.
59
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #7
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER OPERATIONS AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL #1656
Transition lo Job Grouping System
All Pit employees, prior to the signing of this agreement will be given preference as to whether they wish to retain their current job bids or progress through the equipment operator program as set out by Exhibit "A".
Notwithstandingthe above, employees will be given, on a yearly basis, the opportunity to enter into the equipment operator program or take a positionthat they have been successfully trained for, based on seniority.
All current Process Plant employees prior to the signing of the Collective BargainingAgreementwill be grand fathered into positions that are equal to the current bid position under the former (2002-2007) Exhibit "A".
60
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #8
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER OPERATIONS AND
UNITED MINEWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL #1656
The Employer and the Union agree that the position of Maintenance Utility has been established to provide those employees that are accepted into the position exposure to the trades utilizedin the Maintenance Department. The position will
function as a pre-apprentice position and allow employeesto work in an environmentthat will provide work experience in areas relatedto all trades within the Maintenance Department prior to applying to an apprentice position in a designated trade.
61
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #9
BETWEEN
CARDINAL RIVER OPERATIONS AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL #1656
The Employer and The Unionagreeto meet to discuss employee transportation and hot change including implementationcf alternate town and pit transportation methods, transportationdirectly to mine operationspits and sequencing of the hot change process.
62