SOURCE			
	M	CO	m
TERM.	M	M	M
N«. OF fMPtOVEIS
NOM1RE
D'tMHOviS
oo moz
INDEX
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3
ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6
ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8
ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10
PURPOSE........................... 1
NO STRIKES, NO LOCKOUTS........... 2
RECOGNITION....................... 2
Union Recognition................. 2
Employees Covered by the
Agreement....................... 2
No Discrimination................. 3
Bulletin Boards................... 4
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS................. 5
UNION SECURITY.................... 6
UNION BUSINESS.................... 7
Leave of Absence.................. 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE............... 9
Union Activities on Company Time ... 9 Procedure for Settling Disputes...12
SAFETY AND HEALTH.................15
Accident Investigation Procedure..15
Joint Safety and Health
Committee.......................16
Safety-Complaints and Disputes....18
Safety Rules on Hazardous
Materials.......................20
Personal Protective Equipment.....21
Medicals..........................22
Environment.......................22
HOURS OF WORK.....................22
Supervisors.......................24
OVERTIME RATES....................25
Change of Work Schedule...........27
Call Out..........................27
Eight (8) Hour Rest Period........28
Reporting Pay.....................28
I
ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12
ARTICLE 13
ARTICLE 14
ARTICLE 15
ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17
ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS..............29
SALARIES........................31
Salaried Job Evaluation (See Appendix “B”)..............32
PREMIUMS........................32
On Call.........................33
Emergency Rescue Team Premiums . . 34
SENIORITY.......................34
Probationary Period.............35
Reductions in Work Force........37
Recall..........................40
POSTINGS, PROMOTIONS,
DEMOTIONS, TRANSFERS.........41
Vacancies.......................42
Job Posting Procedure...........42
Selection Procedure.............43
Temporary Job Assignment and
Rate of Pay..................46
Temporary Job Assignment Which Changes to a Temporary Job
Vacancy Including Benefits...46
Temporary Job Vacancy Which
Changes to a Permanent Job...48
Return of Absent Employee.......48
TRAINING........................48
Trades Committee................49
ANNUAL VACATIONS................50
Vacation Scheduling.............52
Vacation Adjustment.............52
Unpaid Leave....................53
Seasonal Vacation Bonus.........53
SPECIAL VACATIONS...............54
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE...............56
JURY DUTYAVITNESS PAY...........56
ARTICLE 21	MATERNITY LEAVE...................57
ARTICLE 22	BENEFITS......................... 58
Medical Plans................... 58
Sick Leave Plan................. 59
Long Term Disability	Plan....... 60
Group Life...................... 60
Dental Plan..................... 62
Optical Plan.................... 63
Premium Rebates................. 63
ARTICLE 23	PENSION PLAN..................... 63
ARTICLE24	ON LOAN.......................... 64
ARTICLE 25	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE............. 66
Purpose......................... 66
Definition...................... 66
Prior Notice.................... 66
Company-Union Meetings.......... 66
Maintenance of Rate	Benefit..... 67
Training Benefit................ 67
Severance Benefit............... 67
ARTICLE 26	LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING .... 68
TERM OF AGREEMENT.......................... 94
MEMORANDUM OF Agreement -
4 Days On, 4 Days Off
12 Hour Shift Schedule..................... 95
A.	Employees Covered by this	Agreement...... 95
B.	General Conditions.....................: 95
C.	Overtime Work............................ 96
D.	Statutory Holidays....................... 98
E	Bereavement Leave........................100
F.	Annual Vacations.........................100
G.	Special Vacations........................101
H.	Basic Sick Leave.........................103
III
I.	On Call . . .
J.	Exclusions APPENDIX “A”
APPENDIX “B”
...............................103
...............................103
Salaries........................103
Job Promotion Procedure.........105
Office Staff....................107
Technician and Supervisory.....108
COLA............................109
■ Job Evaluation.................110
Joint Job Evaluation
Committee.....................110
Standards.......................111
Procedures for Job	Evaluation .. 112
Rate Protection.................113
IV
THIS AGREEMENT made the day of 1986, A.D. effective May 1, 1985.
BETWEEN:
FORDING COAL LIMITED
(hereinafter called ”the Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
(hereinafter called “the Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE 1. PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to establish settled conditions of employment and to ensure the prompt and equitable disposition of any grievances which may arise.
The Company and the Union agree to meet from time to time to discuss matters of mutual concern at the request of either party.
1.02	Words imparting the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
1
ARTICLE 2. NO STRIKES, NO LOCKOUTS
2.01	The Company shall not cause or direct any lockout of employees during the life of this Agreement, and neither the Union nor any representativethereof, nor any employees shall in any way authorize, encourage or participate in any strike, walkout, suspension of work, or slow down on the part of any employee or group of employees during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3. RECOGNITION
3.01	Union Recognition
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive representativefor the purposeof conducting collective bargaining regarding all working conditions of employees employed at the Company's operations, and the Company will continue to so recognize the Union as long as the Union retains its right to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of such employees under the law.
3.02	Employees Covered by the Agreement
(a)	The term “employees” as used in this Agreement means all those people employed by the Company at the Company’s operations twenty-nine (29) kilometers north of Elkford, B.C., by road, employed inthe classifications listed in Appendix “A” or such new classifications as the Company may establish as required and which classifications the parties may agree are included within the unit.
For the purpose of this Agreement the term “persons” shall mean all people not represented by U.S.W.A., Local 9702.
(b)	The “Company's Operations” shall mean the operations of Fording Coal Limited described in subparagraph (a) above.
3.03	The Company recognizesthat it is notthe function of persons not inthe U.S.W.A. Local9702 bargaining unit
2
to perform work that is normally performed by an employee inthe bargaining unit where qualified employees are reasonably available to do such work except when it is deemed necessary by the Company to instruct employees, assure proper performance of the work and continuity of operations, proper operation of equipment, to protect Company property, to assure safety and health of employees, to operate pilot or test programs or to man new facilities during start up programs, and in the case of emergency, or in the performance of occasional unforeseen and necessary work when production facilities or troubles are encountered on the job. The Company agrees that these functions shall not be abused. In no case shall an employee in the bargaining unit be displaced by performance of such work by such other person.
3.04	No Discrimination
The Company agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination against any employee by reason of his legitimate activities as a member, Steward or Officer of the Union. The Union agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination on its part towards any employee of the Company. The parties also subscribe to and support the principles of the Human Rights Code of British Columbia.
3.05	The Company shall provide the Union with the following information-pertinent to employees in U.S.W.A., Local 9702:
A listing of employees (quarterly) showing names, addresses and job classifications listed in order of seniority, and will also provide on a current basis:
(a)	copies of job postings, job awards and employee demotions;
(b)	listings of hirings, discharges, resignations, retirements and deaths;
(c)	job classifications and job evaluation descriptions;
3
(d)	descriptive information relating to pension and welfare plans;
(e)	exact copies of all disciplinary notes;
(f)	monthly, a list of contractors on the property;
(g)	bi-weekiy, a list of Acting Supervisorsfrom U.S.W.A., Local 7884;
(h)	monthly, a list of temporary employees;
(i)	a list of plants which the Company considers necessary to operate on a continuous basis;
(j)	weekly, copies of accident investigation reports and work-related first aid treatment slips for U.S.W.A., Local 9702;
(k)	minutes of all safety committee meetings as per marginal paragraph 8.05;
(l)	annually, or as changes occur, a list of all hazardous materials and/or procedures for handling such, as per marginal paragraph 8.10.
3.06	The Company will issue to each new employee an envelope provided by the Union containing an application form for Union membership and a list of names of the Union executive and stewards. The Company will provide the Union with a list of new employees hired each month and also with a list of employees who have severed each month.
3.07	Bulletin Boards
The Company agrees that a section of a bulletin board in each section of the operation shalfbe made available to the Union for its purposes provided that the use of such boards shall be restricted to the posting of notices regarding the business affairs, meetings and social events of the Union, and the reports of various committees of the Union, and provided that no such notice may be posted unless the approval of the Company to the posting has first been obtained and the notation of the approval endorsed on the notice.
4
The Company agrees to furnish to the Uniona keyin'each bulletin board and to keepthe bulletin board in reasonable repair.
Until further notice from the Company to the Union, the approval referred to above need not be obtained.
ARTICLE 4. MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union recognizesthe undisputed rights of the Company to operate and manage its business In all respects in accordance with itscommitmentsand responsibilities and to make and alter from time to time rules and regulationsto be observed by employees, which rules and regulationsshall not be Inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement. The Union further recognizesthat the Company retains all the customary rights, responsibilities, functions and prerogatives of management, except as expressly modified or restricted by a clause of this Agreement.
4.02	Nothing contained In this Agreement shall be deemed to obligate the Company to continue to operate any of its plants or properties or any part thereof.
4.03	The Company shall always have the right to hire, to discipline, demote and discharge employees for Just and sufficient cause; and to retire an employee at his normal retirement age.
4.04
(a) Supervisor Job Opportunity
When there is a requirement for supervisory personnel, the Company shall place job opportunity postings on local bulletin boards. Employeeswho wish to be Considered for such positions maysubmit their namesto the EmploymentSupervisor, Personnel,In accordance with notice Instructions. Due consideration shall be given to all applicants.
5
(b) Selection of Supervisors
The selection of supervisors shall be entirely a matter for the Company's decision.
ARTICLE 5. UNION SECURITY
5.01	The Company shall deduct, as a condition of each employee's continued employment a sum equivalent to Union dues prorated to conform with the semi-monthly pay system as follows:
5.02	Upon receipt of a signed authorization card, the Company shall deduct from each employee's salary: initiation fees, dues, death benefit assignments as set by the Union, and one International Union assessment (excluding fines) not exceeding four dollars ($4.00) per year.
5.03	The deductions referred to above shall commence in the case of each employee who is in the employ of the Company at the effective date of this Agreement and in the case of each employee entering the employment of the Company subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement, with the pay period for which his first pay cheque from the Company is received by him.
5.04	Union dues for each employee shall be equal to one point two percent (1.2%) of total (gross) earnings each semi-month during the reference period (as defined herein) save that the minimum and maximum dues during such period shall be as communicated by the Union in writing to the Company.
5.05	Total earnings for the purpose of calculating Union dues shall be deemed to include base salary and all premiums (if any) including shift premiums, weekend premiums, incentive bonus pay, vacation pay, statutory holiday pay, overtime pay, COLA earnings, call-in and reporting pay, etc., but shall not includeany Workers Compensation payments or payments under any benevolent, sickness or accident plans.
6
5.06	The reference period shall be the semi-month period immediately prior to each pay day. Dues shall be deducted from each employee every pay period and remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union by cheque payable to the International Treasurer of the United Steelworkers of America no later than the 10th day following each pay day. The Company shall include with each cheque a list of employees indicating the amount of dues deducted from each.
5.07	In the event an employee does not work at least twenty (20) hours or be paidfor at least twenty (20) hours of vacation or unworked statutory holidays in the reference period, then no dues will be deducted. Also, no dues will be deducted if at the time of preparation of the pay cheque there are insufficient funds owing to the employee concerned except to the extent that such funds are owing to the employee.
5.08	As early as possible in each calendar year, and no later than February15, the Companyshall provide the Local with an individual statement listing the total of Union dues (or equivalent) deducted from the pay of each employee during the calendar year and paid to the Union in accordance with this Article. In addition, the Company shall causeto be printed on the T-4 slips issuedto each employee by the Company, the amount of each employee's union dues.
5.09	Notwithstanding any provisions contained in this Article, there shall be no financial responsibility on the part of the Company for fees or dues of an employee unless there are sufficient unpaid wages of that employee in the Company's hands.
ARTICLE 6. UNION BUSINESS
6.01	Leave for International Union Business
On two (2) weeks notice and written application by the
Union to the General Manager, Fording Operations, the
7
Company agrees to grant a leave of absence, without pay, to an employee appointed to a position with the International of the United Steelworkers of America or for the business purposes of the International. Such leave of absence shall be limited to a maximum period of one year. The Company shall not be required to grant the privilege under this section to more than one (1) employee at the same time.
6.02	Leave of Absence
The Company will grant unpaid leave of absence to an employee who is appointed or elected to Union Office for a period not exceeding three (3) years. Application for such leave shall be made in writing to the Administrator Employee Relations of the Company. The Company shall not be required to grant the privilege under marginal paragraph 6.02 to more than one employee at the same time.
6.03	Time spent under marginal paragraphs 6.01 and
6.02	aboveshall not in any way jeopardize an employee's seniority nor service for pension purposes, but shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining specific vacation entitlements or other,benefits.
6.04
(a)	The Company agrees to grant leave of absence without pay to employees to attend such items as labour conventions, Union matters, labour arbitrations, labour schools or grievance matters beyond the third step as set forth in this Agreement, provided the leaves of absence granted under marginal paragraph
6.04	for all such Union purposes shall not interfere with the normal operations of the Company and shall not, in aggregate, exceed one hundred twenty-five (125) man-days in any one (1) calendar year.
(b)	An employee who is on leave of absence pursuant to this marginal paragraph and such leave exceeds thirty (30) calendar days shall also be required to pay
8
all the costs of all benefits provided under Article 22. This marginal paragraph shall not apply to an employee if the absence is for the purpose of collective bargaining between the Union and the Company.
6.05	Upon two (2)weeks' notice in writing from the Union, the Company agrees to grant a leave of absence without pay to an employee to attend a labour school. The maximum time for such leave shall be two (2) months.
The Company shall not be obligated to grant a leave under marginal paragraph 6.05 to more than two (2) employees at the same time.
6.06	No person shall solicit membership in the Union or in any other labour organization, or collect dues for the Union or any other labour organization, or engage in any Union or labour organization activity on Company time or within the plants of the Company except to the extent expressly provided for in this Agreement.
6.07	The Company will forward to the Union at the beginning of each month a sum equivalentto 20 hours’ pay at Job Group 31, Step 3, for the purpose of conducting off-property Union business.
ARTICLE 7. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	The Union will advise the Company of three regular employees selected as members of a grievance committee and this committee shall act regarding the interpretation or a violation of this Agreement. The Company shall endeavor to place the Chairman of the grievance committee of the Union on steady day shift.
7.02	Union Activities on Company Time
The time spent in investigating and settling disputes by employees delegated by the Union for that purpose shall be considered as time worked and pay shall be on the basis of straight time. Under no condition shall overtime rates be paid.
9
Prior to leaving the job to investigate or process a grievance, a Steward, Grievance Committee member, or Union Executive member must first obtain permission from his immediate supervisor. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld, and if so, the reason shall be stated in writing. Grievances will be handled during working hours.
7.03	Should a dispute arise between the Company and any employee or group of employees regarding the interpretation or a violation of the Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the dispute as soon as possible. Employees, with or without a shop steward, must try to settle their dispute with their immediate supervisor. Failing settlement, a written grievance will be presented to the Company at Step 1.
Stepl Within thirty (30) calendar days after the alleged dispute has arisen or within thirty (30) calendar days from the time the employee should reasonably have known of the occurrence giving rise to the alleged dispute, the employee, with a shop steward, may present a written grievance to his Foreman/Administrator. The Foreman/ Administrator will record the facts as presented, investigate the grievance and provide a written answer to the grievance within three (3) days (excluding rest days and statutory holidays) of receiving the grievance.
Failing a satisfactory resolution, the grievance may proceed to Step 2.
Step 2 Within seven (7) calendar days of receiving the answer at Stepl, the employee, with a shop steward may presentthe written grievancetothe General Foreman/Sen-ior Administrator, who shall investigate the grievance and provide a written answer tothe grievance within three (3) days (excluding rest days and statutory holidays). Failing a satisfactory resolution, the grievance may proceed to Step 3.
10
Step 3 Failing a Satisfactory settlement within seven (7) calendar days after the dispute was submitted at Step 2, the grievance committee may submit the dispute which shall be in writing outlining the nature of the grievance, the remedy sought and the section(s) of the Agreement which are alleged to have been violated to the Industrial Relations department. A staff representative of the Union may be present at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
Failing a satisfactory settlement or reply within seven (!) calendar days of the submission at Step 3, the grievance may proceed to Step 4.
Step 4 Within thirty (30) calendar days after a decision was made or should have been made by the Company at Step 3, the Union may, by written notice to the Company, referthe dispute to arbitration or Section 112 procedure. Within ten (10) calendar days following receipt of such notice, the Company and the Union will select one arbitrator from the following panel of arbitrators and mutually set a date(s) for an arbitration or Section 112 hearing:
1.	M. I. Chertkow
2.	AH. Hope
3.	V. Ready
4.	B. Williams (Swinton & Co.)
The selection of an arbitrator shall be by alphabetical order from the panel if available to act. The selection of an arbitrator for the next arbitration shall commence with the next name in alphabetical sequence. If the parties cannot mutually agree upon an arbitrator within ten (10) calendar days, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour of the Province of British Columbia upon request of either party.
The arbitrator shall hear the parties to the grievance and shall render his decision within a maximum of thirty (30) days following the hearing.
11
The decision of the arbitrator in respect of an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, shall be final and binding upon the parties. Each party shall pay the expenses incurred in connection with the presentation and preparation of its own case. The parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the arbitrator.
Note:	Prior to proceeding to arbitration, if new facts
regarding the grievance are revealed and those facts were not previously considered during the grievance procedure, then the General Manager of the Company and the Local Union President may meet to discuss those facts.
7.04	Expedited Arbitration
The parties agree to incorporate the Section 112 procedure of the B.C. Labour Code into this Collective Agreement as follows:
a)	Where a difference arises between the parties relating to the dismissal, discipline, or suspension of an employee, or to the interpretation, application, operation or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, during the term of the CollectiveAgreement, Mr. M.l. Chertkow or Mr. V. Ready, or a substitute, as agreed to by the parties shall, at the request of either party:
(i)	investigate the difference;
(ii)	define the issue in the difference; and
(iii)	make written recommendations to resolve the difference within five (5) days of the date of receipt of the request; and, for those five (5) days from that date, time does not run in respect to the grievance procedure.
b) The parties agree when reference is made to Section 112 of the LabourCodeof British Columbiathat both parties will meet in advance,of any investigation to define the issues to the member(s). named as Section 112 investigators.
12
c)	Any recommendations of the grievance investigator shall be binding on both parties unless the parties agree otherwise.
d)	Both parties agree that should this approach to Section 112 be unsatisfactory for either party, the power to make binding decisions relating to the interpretation, application, operation or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable will be excluded from this procedure. The procedure shall then be limited to cases involving dismissal or discipline only. This limitation will be accomplished by thirty (30) days written notice by either party.
7.05	If a grievance is not advanced through the Steps of the grievance procedure within the specified time limits, the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end.
If a grievance is not replied to within the time limits as specified in Steps 1,2, and 3 of the grievance procedure, then the grieving party shall retain the right to proceed to the next step within the time limits specified.
The abandonment of a grievance under this Article shall not prejudice any future cases of a similar nature.
Any time limits provided for in this Article may be varied by the mutual consent of the Company and the Union and confirmed in writing.
7.06	The Company shall have the right to submit any dispute regarding the interpretation of or a violation of this Agreement in writing to the grievance committee of the Union. Failing a satisfactory settlement within seven (7) calendar days of the submission in writing of the dispute by the Company, the Company shall have the right to refer the dispute to arbitration constituted in accordance with this Article.
13
7.07	The Union shall have the right to refer any dispute regarding the interpretationof or a violation of this Agreement to the Company at Step 3 where:
(a)	There is no aggrieved employee or employees possible of identification at the time the dispute arose, or
(b)	The grievance involves Company policy, in which case the grievor orgrievors possible of identification shall be named on the face of the grievance form.
7.08	In all cases while disputes are being investigated and settled, the employeefs) and all other parties involved, except an employee serving a disciplinary suspension, must continueto work, but where an employeejs) has been discharged by the Company, he shall not remain in the employ of the Company while his case is being investigated and settled. Where an employee(s) has been suspended or discharged and it is decided by arbitration that he or they were unjustly suspended or discharged, he or they shall be reinstated and the same arbitrator who dealt with the claim shall fix the compensation, if any, for the time lost by the employee(s) concerned and his decision shall be final.
7.09	In the case of a discharge or suspension, a chief steward (or his designate) must be present. On all disciplinary suspensions and discharge cases, a chief steward will be given a copy of the employee's work record and disciplinary notes at the discharge or suspension meeting.
Grievances involving discharge or suspension 'must be presenteddirectly at Step3 by a memberof the grievance committee. The Step 3 replywill be given within three (3) days (excluding rest days and statutory holidays) of submitting the grievance.
7.10	Any agreement in writing, concerning the outcome of a dispute, between the Company and the grievance committee shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employee(s) concerned.
14
7.11	An employee will have the option of having a shop steward present at any meeting or hearing involving any kind of discipline.
A shop steward must be present when an employee is suspended pending investigation.
ARTICLE 8. SAFETY AND HEALTH
8.01	The Company and the Union, realizing the benefits to be derived from a safe and healthy place of employment, agree that they and all employees, Union safety representatives, stewards and officers and supervision at all levels shall co-operate to promote safe work practices, health conditions and the enforcement of safety rules.
8.02
(a)	Accident Investigation Procedure
The Company and Union agree to co-operatively conduct accident investigations. Such investigations will involve supervision from the area and/or a Company Safety Officer and a Union Safety Representative. Priorto the conclusion of that work day if possible, the Union Safety Representative and Company wijl prepare the proper documentation and distribute copies to those concerned. The Foreman and Union Safety Representative will determine whether or not an investigation is required.
(b)	The Company and Union agree to investigate as soon as reasonably possible all accidentsto make recommendations for remedial or preventative action. The Company's Safety Officer will be responsible for notifying the Safety Representative and will arrange for the time and place of investigation prior to the conclusion of that workday. Such investigations will include at least one Safety Committee member from the Union and one from the Company.
15
(c)	Should a disagreement arise about whether or not an investigation should take place, a referee process shall be initiated immediately. The decision of the referees shall be final and binding on both parties. The Union Representative will be the Safety Committee Chairman or designate. The Company Representative will be the Administrator, Loss Control or designate. Where the referee process has been initiated, the accident/incident scene in dispute shall not be disturbed unless reasonable to do so. The Safety Representative, or a Union Representative if no Safety Representative is available, shall view the scene immediately with the supervisor prior to the scene being disturbed.
(d)	It is recognized that there will be occurrences for which an indepth investigation may or may not be required. For all such occurrences for which an indepth investigation is not required, a report will be filed and made available for review by the Union Safety Chairman or his designate.
8.03	Joint Safety and Health Committee
The Company and Union agree to appoint a Joint Safety and Health Committee composed of not more than four (4) members appointed by the Union, who shall be selected from employees in each of the four (4) areas of work (Mine Operating, Processing, Maintenance and Warehouse) and not more than four (4) members appointed by the Company. For each member it appoints, the Union may utilize any other member from its Safety Committee in the absence of a regular member. The function of this Committee shall be to recommend solutions to problems relating to the promotion of safety, good housekeeping and health at the Company's operations. The Union and the Company will notify each other in writing of the identity of their Joint Safety and Health Committee representatives.
16
8.04	The responsibilities of the Joint Committee shall be:
(a)	To make regular inspections of the plants and areas of work.
(b)	To review reports of accidents and incidents and to make recommendations for remedial or preventive action.
(c)	To meet regularly to take up such safety and health matters which may be brought before it by either the Union or the Company.
(d)	To review the Company's Safety Rules and make recommendations on amendments or additions.
8.05	The Company Safety Representative will act as secretary of all safety committees and will provide minutes of meetings for management, for all committee members, for those who attended the meeting, for the Union, and will have posted a copy of the minutes on the bulletin boards. At following meetings, discussion of the minutes shall be the first order of business.
If the Union disagrees with the accuracy of the minutes as prepared, it shall set forth reasons for such disagreement in writing and forward to the Company, which disagreements will then form part of the minutes.
8.06	Quarterly Safety Meetings
The President, Safety Chairman and Chief Shop Steward of the Local Union shall meet quarterly with the General Manager and safety representatives of the Company's operations to review the reports and recommendations of the Joint Safety and Health Committee and discuss other matters pertaining to safety, accident prevention and industrial hygiene. The Union and the Company shall exchange agendas of matters they propose to discuss at least one (1) week prior to the meeting. These meetings shall be scheduled to take place in March, June, September and December.
17
For special needs related to safety, the Union Safety Chairman, the President of the Local Union or the Company may request a meeting of the parties. The parties agree that such a meeting when requested by either party will be held within twenty-four hours of the request, or at such time as may be mutually agreed to by the parties.
8.07	The time spent by the Safety Chairman in the performance of his duties of attending scheduled safety meetings, mine and plant safety tours and accident investigations shall be paid for by the Company at straight time rates.
8.08	Procedure for Settling Safety Complaints and Disputes (Non-Supervisory Staff)
It is the intent of the parties that no employee or employees shall be requiredto work under conditions which are unsafe or unusually hazardous beyond the normal hazard inherent in the operation or process in question. Where an employee is able to demonstrate on reasonable grounds that a condition of unusual hazard exists at his working place, he shall not be subject to discipline by reason of refusing to work at that place.
(a)	An employee shall immediately report unsafe equipment, practices or conditions to his supervisor, and his supervisor shall investigate the concern promptly, and take steps as deemed necessary to correct the situation.
(b)	If the employee is not satisfied with the decision of his supervisor he may refer the matter to the next level of supervision, who together with the Union Safety Representative will discuss the matter with the supervisor and the employee concerned, and that level of supervision shall decide on the steps to be taken to correct the situation.
(c)	If the employee is not satisfied with the decision, thp Union safety representative may notify the Union
18
Safety Chairman, or his designate, who, with the employee and the Union safety representative will discuss the matter with the Superintendent/Senior Administrator, and if in their opinion it is desirable to discuss it with the Department Manager, who will decide on the steps to be taken to correct the situation.
The Union will notify the Company in writing of the Safety Chairman’s designate in each of the appropriate departments (Plant, Maintenance, and Mine Oper--ations).
(d)	If the Union Safety Chairman is not satisfied with the answer of the Department Manager, the Safety Chairman, after consulting with the employee, may refer the matter to the General Manager and if he is still not satisfied with the answer he received, the Company and Union may jointly apply to the Mines Inspection Branch to obtain an interpretation on the applicable reguiation(s) in the Mines Act and Coal Mines Regulation.
(e)	Upon making the appropriate arrangements with the Section General Foreman/Administrator or the Department Superintendent/Senior Administrator, the Union Safety Chairman will have access to any area of the operatiqns at any time. The Department Superintendent/Senior Administrator or his delegate will accompany the Union Safety Chairman.
8.09 Procedure for Settling Safety Complaints and Disputes (Supervisory Staff)
(a)	An employee shall immediately report unsafe equipment, practices or conditions to his supervisor, and his supervisor shall investigate the concern promptly, and take steps as deemed necessary to correct the situation.
19
(b)	If the employee is not satisfied with the decision of his supervisor he may, with or without his Union Safety Representative, discuss the matter with his department Superintendent or Administrator.
(c)	If the employee is not satisfied with the answer of the Department Superintendent or Administrator, the employee, together with the Safety Chairman, may refer the matter to the Activity Manager and General Manager, and if they are still not satisfied with the answer they received, the Company and Union may jointly apply to the Mines Inspection Branch to obtain an interpretation on the applicable regulation(s) in the Mines Act and Coal Mines Regulation.
8.1Q Safety Rules and Hazardous Materials
The Company will provide each employee with a copy of its Safety Rules, information on hazardous materials, and supply each employee upon request a copy of the Mines Act and Coal Mines Regulation.
The Company shall forward to the Union Safety Chairman the following information:
(a)	A list of toxic and hazardous materials used in the various departments.
(b)	A monthly summary of injuries sustained on the job by employees and statistics pertaining thereto.
(c)	Records of work-related first aid treatments received by employees.
(d)	The Company and the Union shall provide each other with copies of reports, correspondence, etc., to the Provincial Mines Inspector concerning safetyrelated dispute(s) or accidents) and will also advise each other on other appropriate safetyrelated matters and provide any follow-up correspondence.
20
8.11
(a)	The Company will familiarize the Union Safety Chairman, and upon request, other appropriate safety representatives, with the equipment and techniques of sampling and analysis for potentially toxic substances monitored by the Company. He/they will also be instructed in the techniques of monitoring for subsidence in the mine spoil.
(b)	It is recognized that there may be other areas where it would be mutually desirable for the Union Safety Chairman and Safety Representatives to be made familiar with other safety techniques in use at the property. Both parties agree to discuss such matters in a co-operative and reasonable manner.
(c)	Such familiarization will be done on Company time with no loss of pay when conducted during the employee's regular shift or if such familiarization is on off shifts only straight time rates would apply.
8.12	The Company shall provide all supervisors with St. John Ambulance Standard First Aid Training and general knowledge of equipment hazards and hazardous conditions in the working areas.
8.13	Personal Protective Equipment
The Company shall continue to furnish protective equipment and other safety devices in accordance with the present policy subject to such improvements or changes as may be implemented from time to time.
The frequency of issue and replacement of personal protective equipment shall be determined by Company Policy in effect. Each department will familiarize all employees as to the personal protective equipment provided in their area.
The steel-toed safety footwear rebate shall be 50%. Effective October 7, 1986, the prescription safety glass lens rebate shall be 100%.
21
8.14	Medicals
Employees on 5 and 2 (Mondaythrough Friday) steady day shift schedule shall be given paid leave to obtain remedicals required bythe MinesAct. Such leaveshall start one hour prior to the examination appointment time but no earlier than two (2) hours prior to the end of the shift. Transportation is the employee's responsibility.
8.15	If the Company does not accept a medical certificate produced by an employee, or has cause to suspect a physical condition of an employee, the Company may require said employee to undergo an examination by a medical practitioner named by the Company. The Company will pay for the cost of this required examination and under no circumstances shall an employee suffer a loss of pay.
8.16	An employee who is injured on the job will have his normal earnings maintained for the balance of his scheduled shift on the date of the injury.
8.17	Environment
The Company and the Union affirm their joint objective of achieving a work environment in the Company's operations and a general environment in the communities which these operations affect, which is pollution-free to the extent practical, recognizing the nature of the Company's industrial operations.
ARTICLE 9. HOURS OF WORK
9.01	This Article is intended to define the normal hours of work and shall not be construed as any guarantee of work or pay or of hours'of work per day, or per week, or of days of work per week. This Article shall not be considered as any basis for th’e calculation or payment of overtime which is covered solely by Article 10.
22
9.02	The regular scheduled work week shall consist of
(a)	or (b), according to the designation of each classification as specified below:
(a)	thirty-seven and one-half (37 112)hours between midnight on Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Saturday.
(b)	forty (40) hours between midnight on Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Saturday.
9.03	The regular work day shall be seven and one-half (7 112) or eight (^hours of work, depending upon the classification of the employee as specified in marginal paragraph 9.02 at the employee’s designated working place in a twenty-four (24) hour period. The regular days of work for all employees, except those referred to in the following sections shall be Monday to Friday inclusive.
9.04	It is agreed that there are a number of employees required to work on schedules other than five (5) and two (2), Monday through Friday.
9.05	Employees shall be required to work on recognized forty (40) hour schedules, but their average weekly hours shall be reduced to thirty-seven and one-half (37 112)hours by granting the employee one hundred and twenty (120) hours of paid time off per year (prorated to ten (10) hours per month). The paid time off shall be taken at the convenience of the Company. Any portion of the one hundred and twenty (120) hours entitlement not taken prior to the end of the calendar year shall be paid for at normal straight time standard hourly rates.
The equivalent hourly rate for the purposes of overtime calculation for employees on the one hundred and seventy-four (174)hourworkschedule shall be established by dividing the base monthly salary by one hundred sixty-three (163) hours.
23
A thirty-seven and one-half (37 1/2) hour work week applies to all job classifications except for the foil owing jobs for which a forty (40) hour work week applies:
Janitorial Supervisor Processing Labour Supervisor Warehousing Supervisor Laboratory Supervisor Equipment Supervisor Dragline Supervisor Drill Supervisor Shovel Supervisor Truck Supervisor Mine Services Supervisor Tire Shop Supervisor Environmental Services Supervisor Pit Supervisor Blasting Supervisor Maintenance Supervisor, H.E. Maintenance Supervisor, L.E. Machinist Supervisor Electrical Supervisor Electrical Supervisor (Processing) Welding/Fab Supervisor Carpenter Supervisor Maintenance Supervisor Maintenance Supervisor, Proc. Instr. Field Maintenance Supervisor Pipefitter Supervisor
9.06
(a) Employeeswho are employed in sections of the operations which operate on a continuous basis shall be employedon schedules which average not more than thirty-seven and one-half (37 1/2) or forty (40) hours per week as provided for in marginal paragraph 9.02 above.
24
(b)	The Union agrees to j ointly apply with the Company to the appropriate legislative body under the provisions of the “Employment Standards Act” of B.C. and to make such other applications that may be required under the provisions of any other relevant statute or regulation for the approval of schedules put into effect by the Company for this operation where it is necessary to comply with such statute or regulation.
9.07
(a)	The sixth work day in a work week, occurring every twenty-eight (28) days under the Company's seven (7) and three (3) continuous operations schedule, will normally be scheduled as a regular work day to be worked by the employee concerned and the days so worked will be accumulated as rest days to be taken as time off.
(b)	The accumulated rest days will be scheduled as time off by the Company in periods of five (5) successive work days. However, if some other arrangements for taking accumulated rest days off can be arrived at by an employee and the Company which is mutually agreeable, this may be done. Accumulated rest days may not exceed nine (9) in number.
9.08	Under no circumstances will an employee lose hours worked in a pay period as a result of the Company changing his work schedule.
ARTICLE 10. OVERTIME RATES
10.01	Overtime work by an employee must be authorized by the Company. Overtime for work performed as outlined herein shall be paid at the following rate:
(a) Work in excess of the normal hours of work as defined in Article 9, will receive payment at one and one-half (1-112) times the equivalent hourly rate for each overtime hour worked.
25
(b) Overtime which is in excess of six (6) hours overtime during an employee's work period shall be paid at two (2) times the equivalent hourly rate for each overtime hour worked. Overtime which is in excess of eight (8) hours overtime shall be on a voluntary basis with the exception that in any continuous operation where a qualified replacement is not available, the employee may be required to remain at work.
10.02	The initial eight (8) hours overtime in a work period is subject to the following conditions:
(a)	where urgent or necessary relief work is essential to the continuance of the ordinary working of the mine, but only on an occasional basis and not, in any case, for a longer period than sixteen (16) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period;
OR
(b)	where an emergency exists where life or property is in danger;
OR
(c)	where there is a necessity for a periodic change of shift.
10.03	The work period shall be defined as an employee's complete period of days starting with his first scheduled work day and concluding at the end his last scheduled rest day.
10.04	For the purposes of this Agreement, equivalent hourly rate is defined as the base monthly salary divided by one hundred sixty-three (163) hours or one hundred seventy-four (174) hours, as appropriate.
Note:	Forthe purposes of calculating overtime for em-
ployeeswho are required to work a one hundred seventy-four (174) hour per month schedule, the equivalent hourly rate shall be established by dividing the base monthly salary by one hundred sixty-three (163) hours.
26
10.05	If mutually agreed, an employee may elect to receive time off in lieu of overtime pay. Where an employee elects to receive time off in lieu of payment for overtime hours worked, he shall receive no payment for the overtime hours worked but at a time convenient to the operation shall receive one hour off, with pay at straight time rates, for each overtime hour worked.
10.06	Overtime rates shall be paid for work performed by employees on their regularly assigned days off duty including relief days where such relief days occur on a fixed basis and are not banked.
10.07	Change of Work Schedule
Where the Company changes an employee's work schedule during a work period and the employee is required to work in excess of his normal work day of his previous schedule or on the rest days of his previous schedule, he shall be paid overtime rates for that time worked. The new schedule will become the employee's regular schedule at the conclusion of the rest days of his previous schedule.
10.08	Where the Company changes an employee's work shift with the result that the employee has a short change which is not a normal part of a work schedule, the employee shall be paid overtime rates for the hours worked of the second shift which are within the same work day as the first shift. >
10.09	Call Out	’
If an employee is called out to work at a time other than the beginning of his regular shift he shall receive either overtime rates for the time actually worked outside of his scheduled work shift orfour(4) hours pay at his base rate, whichever isthe greater. The four (4) hours minimum does not apply however, when the call out overtime continues into the employee's regular work or if the employee is called back to work before leaving the premises.
27
10.10	Eight (8) Hour Rest Period
An employee who is called out to work more than four (4) hours in advance of the beginning of his next regular shift, or who performs overtime work in a work day and which work does not result from a shift change, shall be entitled to an eight (8) hour rest period commencing at the time the actual overtime work assignment is completed. If his regular shift is scheduled to commence before the expiration of this rest period, he will be permitted to remain at rest for said period and will be paid his regular rate for the hours of his regular shift which fall within said rest period and for the remainder of his regular shift which he works, he will also receive his regular rate of pay. Where an employee is directed by his supervisor or elects to work on that part of his said regular shift which falls within the said rest period, he shall be paid the applicable overtime rates. If the employee is not so directed or elects not to work he will remain at rest for the eight (8) hour rest period.
10.11	Reporting Pay
(a)	When an employee reports on any assigned shift and is sent home because no work is available, or so that he may come to work at a later time, he shall be paid four (4) hours at his base rate plus shift premium and weekend premium if applicable for reporting. If he is assigned to work at a later time he shall be paid straight time for such work up to eight (8) hours in that work day.
(b)	These provisions shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work for more than one (1) work day and fails before reporting to work to notify his supervisor of his intention to return to work.
(c)	Any employee who works four (4) hours or more in a work day and is sent home so that he may come
28
to work at a later time in that work day shall receive overtime rates for all work performed at such later time.
10.12	An employee who supervises a crew on the continuous Mine Production relief schedule shall be paid a premium of sixteen dollars ($16) for each complete work day worked. Inthe event that on occasion the relief to relief system requires longer than forty (40) minutes to effect, applicable overtime rates of pay shall apply.
1Q.13 When an employee works continuously more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours he shall be entitled to a ten (10) hour rest period. If his regular shift is scheduled to commence before the expiration of this rest period, he will be permitted to remain at rest for said period and will be paid his regular rate for the hours of his regular shift which fall within said rest period and for the remainder of his regular shift which he works, he will also receive his regular rate of pay. Where an employee is directed by his supervisor to work on that part of his said regular shift which falls within the said rest period, he shall be paid the appropriate overtime rate for all work performed on his said regular shift. If not so directed, the employee will remain at rest for a ten (10) hour period.
ARTICLE 11. STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
11.01	The following days will be observed as statutory holidays; New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, first Monday in August, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, plus two (2) floating statutory holidays.
(a)	To qualify for a Floating Statutory Holiday, an employee must have had at least one hundred and fifty (150) days continuous service with the Company immediately prior to the holiday.
29
(b)	In situations involving transfers into or between the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 and U.S.W.A., Local 7884 the total annual Statutory Holidays and Floating Statutory Holiday entitlement for such transferred employees will be no more or less than twelve (12).
11.02	An employee who is required to work on a statutory holiday or a day that is declared in lieu of a statutory holiday will be paid as follows:
(a)	If the holiday falls on a scheduled day of rest, he will receive two and one-half (2-112)times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked, or One and one-half (1-112) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked plus equal time off with pay at the convenience of the operation.
(b)	If the holiday falls on a normal work day, he will receive one and one-half (1-112) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked, or One-half (1/2) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hoursworked plus equal time off with pay at the convenience of the operation.
If an employee works more than eight (8) hours, he will be paid two and one-half (2-112) times his equivalent hourly rate for those hours worked which are in excess of eight (8) hours on such work day. Marginal paragraph 11.02 applies only to time worked on the day designated by the Company as the statutory holiday.
11.03	Employees who do not work on a statutory holiday will receive normal pay subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a)	An employee who has been assigned to work on a statutory holiday and does not work shall not receive any pay for the holiday under this Article.
(b)	An employee who is absent without leave on the last work day immediately preceding the statutory
30
holiday or the first work day immediately following the statutory holiday according to the work schedule to which he is assigned, shall not receiveany pay. ment for the statutory holiday.
(c)	If a statutory holiday occurs during the employee's vacation as provided in the Agreement and if the employee would normally have been paid for the statutory holiday had he not been on vacation, such employee shall be given an additional day's vacation with pay for each statutory holiday occurring during the vacation.
(d)	If a statutory holiday falls on the employee's day of rest, the employee shall receive an additional day off with pay at a time mutually agreed upon between the Company and the employee. Ifno mutually suitable day has been agreed upon within ninety (90) days of such holiday, the Company shall designate such day.
(e)	Marginal paragraph 11.03 (a), (c) and (d) will not apply to the floating statutory holiday. The floating statutory holiday may be taken at any time convenient to the operation.
ARTICLE 12. SALARIES
12.01	All salaries shall be detailed in Appendix “A”.
12.02	The Company shall maintain the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Job Group 32, Step 3, Schedule “A” salary at a minimum of $200.00 per month higher than the average certified journeyman tradesman base rate of pay. Any future adjustment to Job Group 32, Step 3, Schedule “A” for this purpose will be applied uniformly to all U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Step 3 salaries. Coincident with the above all Step 3 salaries will hereafter indicate the standard for the job group and as such any present and future adjustments will be applied to the Step 3 salary only. Step 1 and Step 2 salary levels will be maintained as follows:
31
(a)	Step 1 to equal 92.5% of Step 3
(b)	Step 2 to equal 95% of Step 3
12.03	Salaried Job Evaluation
All jobs will be rated by a Joint Job Evaluation Committee under one of the following job evaluation systems:
(a)	U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Office Staff
(b)	U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Technical/Supervisory Staff The Joint Job Evaluation Committee will have the primary purpose of evaluating all eligible jobs.
Appendix “B” sets out the policies and procedures for the evaluation of all U.S.W.A., Local 9702 jobs during the term of this Agreement.
12.04	Employees, upon request inwriting, may have their wages deposited in any bank or credit union in British Columbia or Alberta or can receive it by cheque.
ARTICLE 13. PREMIUMS
13.01	The following premiums shall be paid to an employee who is required to work regularly on the following schedules:
5 and 2 - two shifts
(i)	days/afternoons
(ii)	days/graveyards
(iii)	steady afternoons
10 and 4 steady day shift 10 and 4 - two shifts (i) days/afternoons Continuous operation - 3 shifts 4&4 schedule
(i)	steady day shift
(ii)	days/nights
$35.00/month
$70.00/month
$70.00/month
$40.00/month
$60.00/month
$130.00/month
$100.00/month
$130.00/month
These premiums shall be prorated and payable in cases of temporary transfers.
Premiums will be paid on a prorated basis in accordance with the existing premium structure should the Company implement a new schedule.
13.02	Supervisor’s Allowance
The Supervisor's Allowance shall be 4% of Step 3 of the individual's Job Group per month to be paid to any employee who is required to carry out preparatory planning and reporting prior to and following the normal hours of work of the work force as an integral part of their supervisory duties.
This allowance will be reduced on a prorated basis for any period of absence from the job exceeding two (2) weeks in duration, with the exception of paid annual vacations.
Applicable overtime rates will be paid to any supervisor in receipt of this allowance who is directed by the Company to commence work for a period of time in excess of twenty (20) minutes prior to the start of his regular scheduled shift.
13.03	On Call
An employee required to standby for a possible call into work shall be paid a premium of $12.00 for each shift on call. If called out to work, paywill be in accordance with marginal paragraphs 10.08 and 10.09.
13.04	On call shall be voluntary except as provided in the following:
(a)	where urgent work may be necessary to the continuance of the operation;
(b)	where no qualified employees are regularly scheduled to work;
(c)	where an employee normally scheduled to be on shift to cover a given skill is absent with no qualified replacement available.
33
13.05	Emergency Rescue Team Premiums
Active, regularly practicing members of the Emergency Rescue Teams shall be paidthe sum of forty-five dollars ($45.00) per month, and the Shift Emergency RescueTeam Captains shall be paidthe sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per month. The time spent in practice by such membersshall be considered as time worked.
13.06	Under no circumstances shall there be pyramiding or compounding of premiums.
ARTICLE 14. SENIORITY
14.01	For the purposes of this Agreement there shall be two (2) types of seniority: Company seniority and Bargaining Unit seniority. Whenever the word “seniority” is used in this Article without qualification it shall mean the total of an employee's Company seniority.
(a)	Company seniority shall be established on the basis of the employee's service with the Company (whether broken or continuous) according to the records of the Personnel function. Company seniority shall continue to accumulate so long as the employee remains on the Company's rolls.
(b)	For the purpose of Job Posting, Vacation Scheduling, and 14.09b (ii) only, Bargaining Unit seniority shall apply, which is defined as the employee’s service in the bargaining unit at the Company's Fording River Operations, whether broken or continuous, according to the records of the Company's Personnel function.
(c)	A Technician or Supervisory employee shall not be deemed to have any Company or Bargaining Unit seniority in the operation until he has been regularly employed in the operation for ninety (90) calendar days.
34
(d)	An Office Staff employee shall not be deemed to have any Company or Bargaining Unit seniority in the operation until he has been regularly employed in the operation for sixty (60) calendar days.
14.02	Probationary Period
(a)	Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, Technicians and Supervisory employees shall be on probation for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of last hiring by the Company, provided, however, that such employee has worked four hundred and eighty-seven and one-half (487-1/2) working hours (if he has not worked four hundred and eighty-seven and one-half (487-112)working hoursthe probation period shall be extended until he has completed four hundred and eighty-seven and one-half (487-112) working hours).
(b)	Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, Office Staff employees shall be on probation for a period of sixty (60) days from the date of last hiring by the Company, provided, however, that such employee has worked three hundred and sixty (360) working hours (if he has not worked three hundred and sixty (360) working hours the probation period shall be extended until he has completed three hundred and sixty (360) working hours).
(c)	The parties recognize that probationary employees are, during the probationary period, employed on a trial basis and are subject to dismissal for a lesser cause. Union activity shall not be considered as a reason for discharge under this Section. This clause shall not apply to an employee who is rehired within ninety (90) days of severance.
14.03	Upon completion of his probationary period the employee shall have his name placed on the seniority lists effective from the date of his employment.
35
14.04	Employees originally hired by the Company for a special assignment of work may be released when employment at such special assignment of work comes to an end, notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary. Within two (2) weeks the Union shall be notified in writing of such employees and their status.
Employeesshall not be continued as special assignment employees for a continuous period of time longer than twelve (12) months.
14.05
(a)	The Company shall have the right from time to time to select or accept persons for the purpose of giv-ingthem special experience ortraining at jobs with-inthe U.S.W.A. 9702 unit in preparingthem ortrying out their capabilities for other or broader assignments with the Company, or for future service outside the Company, so long as such special training does not reducejob posting opportunities or cause displacement or demotion of employees. The provisions of this Agreement shall not apply to these persons during such training. The number of such persons shall not exceed 5% of the number of employees.
(b)	The Company may offer such special experience or training to employees for the same purpose as in (a) above and would be able to direct their training free from any limitations in this Agreement.
14.06	Students employed during the regular holiday period of the educational institution to which they have been admitted or are attending shall be deemed to be temporary employees. During this period students may be assigned to positions of a temporary nature as the Company requirementsdictate, provided that such assignment does not result in the demotion or displacement of any employee or would result in the filling of a job vacancy that would normally be posted. In the case of a permanent or
36
indefinite reduction in workforce at the operation, students shall be laid off before regular employees. In the event of a student's employment on the student roll is terminated but he is rehired bythe Company with no break in service, then the time spent on the student roll from the last date of hire shall be considered as continuous service with the Company with respect to the probationary period.
14.07	The Company shall have the right to transfer any person in its employ at the operation covered by this Agreement who has served in a classification as defined in Appendix “A” to a job classification within the definition and to assign to him a job at the operation commensurate with hi5 qualifications provided that such assignment does not result in the displacement of any current job incumbent. Such a person transferred into the unit shall not be eligible to bid on a job for a period of ninety (90) days following his entry into the unit.
14.08	Periods spent by an employee serving with His Majesty's Forces, in World War II if he entered the employ of the Company within the three (3) month period after his discharge from such forces, and a former employee who after July 5,1950 and before July 1,1955, left the Company's employ to serve as a member of the Special or Regular Forces of Canada, on his return to the Company's employ, if he isthen covered bythe Veterans Benefit Act, 1954, shall be considered as servicewith the Company for the purpose of establishing seniority.
14.09	Reductions in Work Force
(a)	Permanent or indefinite
In the event of a general reduction of work farce, other than those of a temporary or emergency nature, employees shall be laid off in the inverse order of Company seniority provided that those senior employees being retained meet the requirements of the 37
operation and can satisfactorily perform the required work.
In the event of a permanent or indefinite layoff, the employee may use his Company seniority to claim any job classification listed in Appendix “A”, provided he can satisfactorily perform the required work and does not displace a more senior employee.
An employee who requires a period of familiarization on his newjob will be given a period of up to ten (10) days or longer, as deemed necessary by the Company, to meet an acceptable standard of performance.
The Union and the employees concerned shall be notified, whenever possible, thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date of such layoff or as provided in the Employment Standards Act, whichever is the greater. When it is necessary to increase forces, former employees with more than thirty (30) days service will be re-employed as closely as possible in the inverse order in which they were laid off.
The Company agrees that, so far as is practicable, no new employees shall be hired at the operation until those laid off have been rehired, except in the case of employees covered by marginal paragraph 14.04 of this Article.
In the event of a general reduction of work force, the Union Local President, Vice-president, Recording Secretary, Financial Secretary, Shop Stewards and Safety Representatives shall be the last employees to be laid off, provided they have completed their probationary period and can satisfactorily perform the required work.
(b)	Temporary cr Emergency Layoff/Shutdown
(i)	In the event that the operation or a part of the operation is shut down for a temporary period 38
of time (not exceeding eight (8) calendar days) employees will be laid off in the inverse order of their job classification seniority.
(ii)	In the event that the operation or a part of the operation is shut down for a temporary period of time (exceeding eight (8) calendar days, but not exceeding forty (40) calendar days) employees will be laid off in the inverse order of their bargaining unit seniority within their department, provided they can satisfactorily perform the required work.
(iii)	Employees who are temporarily laid off will be recalled in the inverse order in which they were laid off and shall retain all benefits including statutory holidays and continue to accrue seniority during the time of temporary layoff.
(c)	Reduction of Manpower or Equipment
(j) In the event that the Company reduces the equipment or manpower required in a department, employees affected by the reduction may first move to displace less senior employees within the department, provided they can satisfactorily perform the required work. The employee may then use his Company seniority to claim a job in another department, provided he does not displace a more senior employee and can satisfactorily perform the required work.
(ii) An employee who requires a period of familiarization or retraining on his new job will be given a period of up to ten (10) days or longer, as deemed necessary by the Company to meet an acceptable standard of performance.
14.10	Supervisor Bumping Rights (a) In the event that the number of Supervisors required in a Supervisor Classification, as defined in
39
Appendix A(2), is reduced, the procedure will be as follows:
(i)	Employees shall be displaced from their supervisory classification inthe inverse order of their Company seniority.
(ii)	A Supervisor who is displaced from his classification may use his Company seniority to claim a supervisory job that he has previously held on a permanent basis, or a non-supervisory position within the Bargaining Unit.
provided that the employee who is displaced can satisfactorily perform the required work and does not displace a more senior employee.
(b)	An employee in a non-supervisory job classification who has previously been a Supervisor will not be able to bump a Supervisor.
(c)	An employee who requires a period of familiarization or retraining on his new job will be given a period of up to ten (10) days or longer, as deemed necessary by the Company, to meet an acceptable standard of performance.
14.11	Recall
(a) If an employee is laid off as part of a general reduction of work force, he shall have preferential rights (hereinafter called “recall rights”) for rehiring for jobs in the bargaining unit. These recall rights shall not exceed twenty-four (24) months from the date of last layoff, and recall shall be in accordance with employee seniority, provided that such employees are able to satisfactorily perform the work which has become available. An employee who requires a period of familiarization or retraining on his new job will be given a period of up to ten (10) days or longer, as deemed necessary by the Company, to meet an acceptable standard of performance.
40
(b) Those former employees who qualify for recall shall be notified by the Company by double registered mail at their last known address when a vacancy exists. It shall be the responsibility of the laid-off employees to notify the Personnel representativeof any changes in their postal addresses. The recalled employees must notify the Company of their intention to return to work within seven (7) days of the receipt of the recall notice and must return to work within fourteen (14) days of such date or make alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Company. The Company shall not be required to rehire at any time any person who failed to acknowledge within the said seven (7) day period the notification to return to work.
14.12	An employee who has completed his probationary period at the time he is laid off shall not be required to serve a probationary period upon rehire if he is rehired within the twenty-four (24) month recall period as defined in marginal paragraph 14.11(a) above.
14.13	A probationary employee who is laid off and rehired within twenty-four (24) months pursuant to marginal paragraph 14.11(a) shall, for the purpose of marginal paragraph 14.02, be credited with the period of time he had been a probationary employee prior to layoff.
ARTICLE 15. POSTINGS, PROMOTIONS, DEMOTIONS AND TRANSFERS
15.01	Vacancies
Temporary Vacancies shall be defined as a permanentjob temporarily vacated for any reason or ajob created by the Company for a specific purpose(s) and a specific period of time.
Permanent Vacancies shall be defined as an established job which is permanently vacated by an employee or a newly created permanent job.
41
15.02	Vacancies to be Posted
All jobs that are vacant for thirty (30) calendar days or more shall be posted.
15.03	Job Posting Procedure
(a)	Vacant positions which are to be posted shall be on job posting forms and shall contain the following:
(1)	Job Title
(2)	Job Group
(3)	Department (Area)
(4)	Present Shift (may be changed as required)
(5)	Length of Job Vacancy (temporaryor permanent)
(6)	Brief Description of Vacancy
(b)	Job Postings shall be posted on 9702 bulletin boards for nine (9) calendar days.
(c)	Within fourteen (14) calendar days of the posting being closed, the successful applicant shall be selected and his name shall be posted. All employees who applied for the vacancy will be advised of the disposition of their application.
(d)	Within thirty (30) calendar days of being selected, the successful applicant shall occupy his new job at the new salary or rate of pay as per Appendix “A” ■ Salaries.
(e)	An employee who bids to a temporary job vacancy shall upon termination of the same return to his previous job or equivalent.
(f)	An employee who will be absent due to vacation or authorized leave who wishes to be considered for a job which may become vacant during such absence may complete a job posting application and forward it to the Personnel department prior to taking such vacation or leave. If the position applied for becomes vacant the Personnel department shall include that application with others who apply for the position.
42
15.04	Selection Procedure
(a)	It is understood that no person shall be hired until such time as it has been established through the job posting procedure that there is no employee available who is qualified for such position.
Local 9702 Bargaining Unit employees who have applied to a job posting shall be given first consideration.
(b)	In cases of transfers, promotions and placements to lowerjob groups, the Company shall consider the following two (2) factors in determining which em-ployee(s) shall receive the transfer, promotion, or placement to the lower job group:
(i)	the seniority of each employee concerned, and
(ii)	the ability, qualifications and experience of each employee concerned.
When factor (ii) is relatively equal between two (2) or more employees, the employee having the greater seniority shall be entitled to preference. The qualifications of employees shall be determined in a fair and equitable manner.
Note:	It is recognized that qualifications for jobs
once established, would not change unless the job content or the job standard change.
(c)	The selection of supervisors will be as per marginal-paragraph 4.04 of the Agreement.
(d)	An employee, who is an unsuccessful applicant for a job posting, may request a meeting to discuss the disposition of his application.
(e)	If as a result of the Company awarding a bid position a dispute arises, no employee shall occupy that position on a permanent basis until the dispute is settled. Such a dispute shall be decided in expedited arbitration (Section 112).
43
15.05	All persons hired to fill a permanentjob within the unit will be placed on salaried rolls immediately. Such person shall not be eligible for a promotion unless the probation period has been completed.
15.06
(a)	An employee desiring a change in shift or work group assignment for personal reasons shall make the same known to his supervisor by filling out duplicate transfer request forms. The supervisor shall award the change on the basis of seniority as vacancies occur provided it does not interfere with the efficiency of the operations.
(b)	For the purposes of the above only: An assignment is a situation where there is no significant change injob duties or any change injob group. An assignment from one job to another involving no change in job group shall not be considered as a transfer, promotion or demotion. A transfer situation involves interdepartmentalmoves where there is a significant change in job content.
15.07
(a) When the Company temporarily promotes a person covered by a Collective Agreementto a position within the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Bargaining Unit to fill a vacancy of twenty-nine (29) calendar days or less resulting from holidays, illness, or short-term abnormal requirements, such person is not covered by this Collective Agreement, but he shall continue to be covered by the Collective Agreement applicable to the Unit from which he was promoted save and except for wage rates. The wage rate paid will be the Stepl rateappliqabletothe position included in the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Bargaining Unit. Such person shall not remain in a.Local 9702 Bargaining Unitjob position in excess of one hundred (100) working days in aggregate in a calendar year.
44
Note:	NotwithstandingArticle 15.02, the above time
limits may be extended by mutual consent.
(b) When the Company temporarily employs a person not covered by a Collective Agreement to a position within the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Bargaining Unit, such person is not covered by this Collective Agreement, save and except for wage rates. The wage rate paid will be the Step 1 rate applicable to the position included in the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Bargaining Unit. Such person shall not remain in a U.S.W.A., Local 9702job positionfor acontinuous period exceeding five (5)working days, except where by mutual consent it has been agreed that the person should or should not be covered by the Collective Agreement or where the job has been posted as a temporary job vacancy as per marginal paragraphs15.01 and 15.02.
15.08
(a)	An employee who has been partially disabled as a result of an accident or industrial disease within the meaning of the Workers' Compensation Act, incurred in the course of his employment with the Company, shall be given preference over other employees for employment in any job for which he has the necessary qualifications, whether or not a vacancy exists. The Company may, in consultation with the Union, extend this privilege to an employee who becomes disabled from any other cause.
(b)	If an employee is the incumbent of a job before the job is made available by the Company under this Section for partially disabled employees, he shall, upon being replaced in that job by a partially disabled employee, have his rate of pay maintained at a rate not less than the rate of the job from which he was moved.
45
15.09	Temporary Job Assignment and Rate of Pay
If an employee is temporarily assigned to a higher pay-ingjob within the unit due to illness, vacation, etc., of another employee he will be paid a temporary rate for the job for the full period of such assignment. The temporary rate will be an increase of five (5) percent of his present salary provided, however, that if the resulting salary falls outside the range of the job group in which he is relieving he will be paid either:
(i)	The minimum (Step 1) rate of the job if the five percent (5%) increase results in a rate which is lower than the minimum (Step 1) rate for the job.
(ii)	The maximum (Step 3) rate of the job if the five percent (5%) increase results in a rate which is higher than the maximum rate for the job.
An employee who is temporarily assigned to a lower rated job will retain his current salary during this period.
15.10	Temporary Assignment Which Changes to a Temporary Job Vacancy
(a)	An employee on temporary assignment shall upon termination of the same, return to his previous job or the equivalent. Temporary assignments shall not exceed thirty (30) calendar days. If it becomes apparent that the temporary assignment will extend beyond the thirty (30) calendar day period due to sickness or accident, the Company shall post the position as a temporary job vacancy unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Company and the Union.
(b)	Employees who have been assignedto any job which changes to a permanent or temporary job vacancy shall not be considered to have an advantage over other more senior qualified employees who apply for the permanent or temporary vacancy.
46
(c)	Persons employed to fill temporary vacancies shall
be covered by the Collective Agreement save and except for the following:
(i)	Probationary Period
The probationary period under marginal paragraph 14.02 in this Collective Agreement must be served each time persons are employed to fill a temporary vacancy.
(ii)	Job Postings
Persons hired as temporary employees, who are the successful applicant for a job posting, shall be required unless mutually agreed otherwise to fulfill the tenure of their present temporary position before being assigned to their new positions. Such agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(iii)	Vacation pay at 4% of the temporary employee's earnings shall be paid at the end of the temporary vacancy, or when the temporary employee is terminated.
(iv)	Bereavement Leave as defined in marginal paragraph 19.01 and Jury Duty/Witness Pay as defined in marginal paragraph20.01 will become available upon completion of the probationary period as defined above.
(v)	The medical plans i n marginal paragraph 22.02 will be made available on the first of the month following completion of the probationary period.
(vi)	Basic Life Insurance as outlined in marginal paragraph 22.05 shall be immediately available, however, optional coverage shall not be available unless the temporary employee becomes a full time employee.
47
(vii)	The Optical Plan benefits provided for in marginal paragraph 22.07 shall be available upon completion of the probationary period.
15.11	Temporary Job Which Changes to a Permanent Job
If, for whatever reason, such temporary job assumes permanent status, the employee occupying the job shall be confirmed in the position on a permanent basis.
15.12	Return of Absent Employee
When an employee is absent from his normaljob because of sickness or accident he shall, on his return, be reinstated inthe job he held. During such absence, his seniority shall accumulate as if he had not been so absent. This privilege will also be extended to employees, including Union Officers, returning to work from a leave authorized by the Company.
15.13	Where an employee is to be placed in a lower job group for reasons not attributable to the employee, the following Rate Protection will apply:
(a)	Upon being placed in the position, the employee will retain his current salary.
(b)	If the employee's salary is within the salary range of the lowerjob group, he will receive such general increases as accrue to his new group.
(c)	If the employee's salary isabove the standard of the new job group, he will receive general increases only to the extent that the revised standard for his new group exceeds his present salary.
ARTICLE 16. TRAINING
16.01	The Company and the Union mutually recognize the importance and necessity of assisting employees to improve their skills and knowledge so that they may keep abreast of technological advances, have opportunity for
48
advancement and maintain credentials required by the Company. It is acknowledged that both the employee and the Company have responsibilities in advancing the employee's knowledge and skills in order to meet the Company's needs in these areas. Employees who are enrolled in training programs required by the Company, which may include programs sponsored by government agencies, shall have their normal salaries maintained. Employees required by the Company to take additional training at times other than their regular hours of work shall be paid at their regular equivalent hourly rate for such time, which time will not be considered as time worked for any purpose under this Agreement. Should an employee fail to complete a training program and/or fail to pass the examination at the end of his training and is subsequently permitted to repeat the training, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the employee as provided herein while he is repeating his training. In order to assist older employees to adapt to technological change and to learn new methods, the Company will endeavour, whenever possible, to give older employees preference for training to assist them to compete on an equal basis for promotions and new jobs with younger employees.
16.02	Employees affected by technological change will be given prior consideration for training to fill job openings providing that such employees have the necessary ability to do the job and are willing to participate fully in the training. Should the required training not accommodate all employees affected by such change, training will be offered in accordance with the principles of marginal paragraph 15.04(b). On successful completion of training, placementto fill thejobs shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Collective Agreement.
16.03	Trades Committee
A committee will be appointed consisting of two (2) employees representing the U.S.W.A., Local7884 Union, one
49
(1) employee representing the U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Union and three (3) representatives of the Company. The Company will reimburse employees who may lose time from their normal work as a result of acting as Union representatives on the committee at straight time rates to a maximum of eight (8) hours in a day. This paragraph will also apply to time spent off the property to attend meetings called by the Company and do committee work as authorized by the Company Co-chairman. Requests for off property Trades Committee work will not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE 17. ANNUAL VACATIONS
17.01	An employee who has been in the service of the Company less than one year prior to the first day of January in any year shall be entitled to a vacation and leave with pay as follows:
(a)	If hired between January 1st and August 31st inclusive of the previous year, ten (10) working days off with pay.
(b)	If hired between September 1st and December31st inclusive of the previous year, five (5) working days off with pay, plus five (5) unpaid work days off if requested.
17.02	An employee shall be entitled to a vacation with
pay as follows: Complete Yrs / Service As Of The First Day Of January In Any 2:.	Days of Vacation With Pay Entitlement	Plateau Years
1	12	
2	15	3 weeks
3	15	
4	16	
5	17	
50
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
18
19
20	4 weeks 20
21 21 22 22 23
23
24
24
25	5 weeks
25
26 26 27
27
28 28 29
29
30	6 weeks
The word “pay” shall mean remuneration for eight (8) hour days of vacation, as the case may require, atthedays of vacation, as the case’may require, atthe employee’s regular base rate of pay during the calendar month immediately preceding the vacation.
17.03	Employees entitled to ten (10) or more working days paid vacation may split their vacation subject to the approval of their supervisor.
17.04	If an employee has been absent from work without pay during the preceding calendar year for any reason other than the employee's sickness or accident, or maternity leave, the periods of vacation with pay, as specified in the above paragraphs, shall be reduced by 1124th
51
for each full pay period by which the absence exceeds thirty (30) consecutive days; provided, however, that in the case of sickness the employee will not be entitled to any vacation with pay after the absence exceeds twelve (12) consecutive months.
17.05	Vacation Scheduling
The Company retains the right to schedule all or any vacations. Vacations which have been scheduled and approved and are subsequently cancelled at the convenience of the Company may be rescheduled within a twelve (12) month period. An employee who has scheduled a vacation period and is unable to take it because of sickness or accident may, upon notification to his Supervisor, postpone such vacation providedthat such vacation can be rescheduledwithin the succeeding twelve (12) month period.
Upon receipt of proof of loss the Company shall reimburse an employee for reservation deposits lost as a result of his vacation being rescheduled by the Company, provided the employee has made arrangements through his supervisor to have the vacation time off and makes the supervisor aware in writing at the time the vacation is rescheduled of the deposits the employee will lose as a result of the rescheduling.
17.06	Vacation Adjustment
A vacation adjustment will be implemented, in addition to the vacation entitlements listed above, as follows. In those years that an employee first achieves the vacation plateaus of each of the three (3)., four (4), five (5) and six (6) weeks of vacation with pay, such employee shall be entitledto avacation adjustmentequivalentto 0.208 days, with pay for each full one-half (.5) month cf service between his date of last hire with the Company and Decem-ber31st cf that same year. The time entitlement shall be rounded off to the nearest full day.
52
17.07	Unpaid Leave
An employee shall be entitled to unpaid Leave of Absence as the last portion of his annual vacation for the purpose of rounding-out his work period (as defined in marginal paragraph 10.02) subject to the following conditions:
(a)	An employee who is employed on the 7&3 continuous operations schedule shall be entitled to a maximum of two (2) days unpaid Leave of Absence to be taken as the last portion of each vacation week.
(b)	Employees on any work schedule shall be entitled to unpaid Leave of Absence as the last portion of their final vacation period.
NOTE: This entitlement shall only apply if the employee has scheduled such entitlement with his annual vacation prior to April 1st of the vacation year.
Where an employee has not scheduled this entitlement and wishes to at a later time, the employee shall make such request to his immediate supervisor before the start of such vacation period. Approval in such cases shall be subject to the efficiency of the operations.
17.08	Seasonal Vacation Bonus
Employeeswho take their vacations between January 15th and April 30th, shall receive a seasonal vacation bonus equivalent to eight (8) hours pay for each complete forty (40) hour paid vacation week taken.
17.09	In the event a plant is shut down for vacation purposes, employees will be required to take their vacation during the shutdbwn. Employeeswho do not have sufficient vacation to cover the shutdown period will receive first consideration for available work if they have the necessary qualifications. In exceptional circumstances this privilege will be extended to other employees who are qualified to perform the available work.
53
17.10	Employees will not be permitted to take cash in lieu of earned vacations or any portion thereof. An exception of this rule will occur only in the case of severance from the Company's rolls, or retirement to pension.
ARTICLE 18. SPECIAL VACATIONS
18.01	Effective January 1,1979, employees with five (5) years or more of service who did not previously qualify for Special Vacation will be entitled to a Special Vacation of three (3) weeks in addition to their normal vacation entitlement to betaken within the five (5) year period ending December31,1983. During each subsequent five (5) year qualifying periodthese employees shall become eligible for a further three (3)weeks of Special Vacation.
Employees who complete their five (5)years of service after January 1,1979, shall be.eligible forthis programdur-ingthe five (5)year period commencing with the January 1st following the year in which they complete five (5) years service and during each subsequent five (5) year qualifying period they shall become eligible for a further three (3)weeks of Special Vacation.
Employeeswho had attained fifteen (15)years service prior to January 1, 1978 will continue to earn a Special Vacation of three (3)weeks in each five (5) year qualifying period commencing with January 1st of the year in which they first qualified for Special Vacation.
18.02	Special Vacations shall be governed by the following conditions:
(a) They shall be taken at times which are suitable to both the Company and employee and must be taken within the designated five (5) year period. In the event the previously scheduled and agreed to Special Vacation period, is cancelled by the Company during the final year of the five (5) year period, the employee will receive a one (1)year extension from
54
the date of cancellation in which to reschedule the Special Vacation.
(b)	The allocation of regular vacations shall have priority over the allocation of Special Vacations.
(c)	In determining the length of a Special Vacation, a week shall mean a work week as defined in margin, al paragraph9.02. Ifa Statutory Holidayfallswithin the period and the employee concerned would have become entitled to pay for such holiday not worked, if he had not been on Special Vacation, the Special Vacation period shall be extended by seven and one-half (7 112) hours or eight (8) hours with pay or the day will be banked and taken at a time mutually convenient to the Company and employee.
(d)	Special Vacation pay shall be computed on the basis of thirty-seven and one-half (371/2) hours or forty (40) hours of remuneration per week based on the employee's regular base rate or the base rate on which the employee worked the majority of the time during the calendar month immediately preceding the Special Vacation.
(e)	On retirement an employee shall receive pay for any unused Special Vacation plus payment for the full allotment for which he is currently qualifying.
(f)	On death, pay for any unused Special Vacation to which an employee would have been entitled plus a pro rata payment towards his next Special Vacation allotment shall be paid to his estate.
(g)	If an employee leaves the service of the Company or his employment is terminated during any five (5) year qualifying period, he shall receive pay for any unused Special Vacation to which he is entitled plus a pro rata payment towards his next Special Vacation allotment.
55
(h)	Absences from work during a qualifying period for reasons of sickness or accident in excess of twelve (12) months or for any reason other than sickness or accident, or maternity leave in excess of three (3) months will result in proportional reduction of benefits. In the case of absence at the commencement of a Special Vacation qualifying period no allotment will be made until the employee returns to work at which time the allotment will be proportionately reduced.
ARTICLE 19. BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
19.01	On request by an employee, Bereavement Leave with pay shall be granted in the event of death in the employee's immediate family in accordancewith the following conditions:
One shift, due to the death, and up to an additional three (3) consecutive shifts to attend the funeral of a spouse, child, father or mother, OR
Up to three (3)consecutive shifts to attend the funeral of a mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister or grandparent.
The definition cf spouse will include a person of the opposite sex who has lived with the employee for two (2) or more years where there is a bar to their marriage or at least one (1) year where there is no such bar and the employee and that person have publicly declared themselves as man and wife.
ARTICLE 20. JURY DUTY/WITNESS PAY
20.01	A regular full-time employee who is required to report for jury duty in family court, county court, provincial court, supreme court or coroner's court or who is subpoenaed by the crown to appear as a witness at any 56
proceedings in the aforementioned courts on a work day on which he would normally have worked, will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between his regular base rate of pay and the jury duty pay or witness pay received for that day. Reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of the employee's normal work day or work week. The employee will be required to furnish a certificate of service signed by the Clerk of the Court to the Company before payment is made.
Time paid for jury or witness duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and statutory holidays but will not be counted as hours worked in a work day for the purpose of computing overtime.
ARTICLE 21. MATERNITY LEAVE
21.01	A female employee may apply in writing and shall be granted a maternity Leave of Absence to a maximum of twenty-four (24) consecutive weeks (or less as may be requested by the employee) or in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of B.C. (1980), whichever is greater.
An additional Leave of Absence, without pay, at the request of the employee because of related medical reasons which are substantiated to the satisfaction of the Company, shall be granted up to a total of six (6) consecutive weeks.
21.02	The employee shall give the Company thirty (30) calendar days notice in writing of the day upon which she intends to commence her leave of absence and shall furnish the Company with the certificate of a legally qualified medical practitioner stating she is pregnant, and the estimated date of delivery.
21.03	An employee who intends to resume employment after maternity leaveshall endeavourto give as much notice as possible, but in no case less than one (1) week's
57
notice to her crew or unit supervisor. She must furnish the Company with the certificate of a legally qualified medical practitioner stating she is able to resume full time work. On her return to work the Company shall reinstate the employee to her previous position, or should her former position be redundant, provide her with alternate work at not less than her job group at the time her leave of absence began.
21.04	The period cf such leave shall be considered as Company service for seniority and pension purposes, and vacation entitlement with pay only.
21.05	The Company will continue to provide medical, extended health, optical plan, dental and group insurance benefits during the period of leaveandthe Companyshall continue to make payment to the.plan in the same manner as if the employee were not absent where:
(a)	the Company pays the total cost of the plan, or
(b)	the employee elects to continue to pay her share of the cost of a plan that is paid for jointly by the Company and the employee.
Basic Sick Leave and Long Term Disability benefits will not be available during the leave.
ARTICLE 22. BENEFITS
22.01	The following employees' benefits program with respect to medical plans, sick leave plans, long term disability plan, group life insurance, dental plan and optical plan shall be in effect during the term of this Agreement:
22.02	Medical Plans
The Company shall pay the entire premium cost per employee per month, if any, for both married and single employees under the British Columbia Medical Services Plan and the Extended Health Benefit Plan with M.S.A. as licensed carrier.
58
The Company will provide “out-of-province” medical coverage under the existing medical plan. Premium costs for this coverage will be paid by the Company.
22.03	Sick Leave Plans
The Company shall pay the entire cost of plans summarized in this clause. The benefit amounts under both the Basic Sick Leave Plan and the Long Term Disability Plan are designed to provide an employee with a guaranteed level of disability income. If an employee is also eligible for disability income through Workers' Compensation, the Canada Pension Plan, or similar programs, the benefit amounts under the Company plans will be reduced by the amount of this other income.
(a) Basic Sick Leave Plan
An employee is eligible after three (3) months of continuous service.
Benefits are paid for ninety (90) days.*
-full salary to the extent of accumulated sick credits - partial salary for the balance (if any) of the ninety (90) days.
Sick credits accumulate at the rate of twelve (12) days per year to a maximum of ninety (90) days.*
d
*lf an employee had accumulated more than ninety (90) days prior to February 1,1968, he is eligible for full salary benefits to the extent of the accumulation. When an employee has used up his sick credits he . shall receive partial salary as set out below:
3 months to 5 years - 40% of salary 5 years to 10 years - 50% of first $1,400 and 40% of balance
over 10 years	- 60% of first $1,400 and
50% of balance. Minimum benefit is two-thirds (2/3) U.I.C. insurable earnings.
59
22.04	Long Term Disability Plan
An employee is eligible for benefits after three (3) months of continuous service.
Benefits commence after all Basic Sick Leave benefits have been used, providing that an employee's disability meets the terms of the insurance policy.
The benefit period is related to service:
-	if an employee has less than ten (10) years service, the benefit period is equal to his service rounded to the next full year. For example, if an employee's service is two
(2)	years and one (1) month, his benefit period will be three (3) years.
-	if an employee has more than ten (10) years of service his benefit period will extend until he retires.
The benefit amount is also related to service; and is calculated in the same manner as the partial salary amount under the Basic Sick Leave Plan:
3 months to 5 years ■ 40% of salary 5 to 10 years	- 50% of first $1,400 and
40% of balance
over 10 years	• 60% of first $1,400 and
50% of balance
Minimum benefit is two-thirds (2/3) U.I.C. insurable earnings.
22.05	Group Life Insurance Eligibility
All full time employees are eligible on employment. Coverage for new employees becomes effective on the date of hire. Beneficiaries are as recorded with the Company.
Basic Coverage
An employee's basic coverage of life insurance is an amount equal to one and one-half times (1.5 x) his
60
previous year's annual income from employment with Fording Coal Limited, rounded to the next higher $1,000.00, if not already a multiple of $1,000.00. The entire program for this coverage will be paid by the Company.
Optional Coverage
On date of hire, an employee may purchase additional insurance equal in amount to his Basic Coverage. The Optional coverage will be effective on the first day of the month following the date of hire. This additional coverage is optional, with the monthly cost to the employee, per$1,000.00 coverage, being the average cost of all coverage as determined by claims experience.
Revisions to Optional Coverage
Optional coverage may be cancelled effective the last day of any calendar month, provided sufficient notice is given. Where an employee chooses not to participate when first eligible, or where, after a period of participation, an employee cancels and at a later date wishes to again participate, evidence of insurability satisfactory to the carrier will be required.
To change his coverage, an employee must contact the Personnel Function of the Company and arrange to complete the appropriate authorization card.
Revisions Related to Salary Change Revisions related to salary change are effective on the first of the following month. When an employee's Basic Coverage is so revised, the Optional Coverage is revised accordingly.
Coverage for Retired Employees
Coverage for retired employees is related to final earnings, i.e., a percentage of active Basic Coverage. The monthly premium for this Basic Coverage shall be paid by the Company.
Optional coverage is not available. The levels of insurance after retirement are as follows:
61
Age
Percentage of Preretirement Basic Coverage
70 and over
60 to 64
Coverageis reduced by $2,500.00 at age 65 if the employee was age 45 to 55 at hire.
No coverage is available after age 65 if the employee was age 55 or over at hire.
Certificates of Insurance
Each employee will receive a Certificate describing the coverage.
Extended Coverage and Disability
Should an employee, prior to age sixty (60) become disabled under the terms of the Policy and be unable to work for a period exceeding six (6) months, the employee's Basic Coverage will be continued subject to normal retirement reductions. In addition, the employee's Optional Coverage will be continued without payment of premium until retirement, as long as the employee provides regular proof of continuing disability.
22.06	Dental Plan
The cost of the Dental Plan will be paid for by the Company.
The Dental Plan providesfor payment of 100% of the basic services commonly referred to as Plan “A” and 60% (65%-effective May 1,198770% -effective May1, 1988) of the services commonly referred to as Plan “B”. Employees and their spouse, and unmarried dependant children under the age of twenty-one (21) will be eligible for
62
this coverage on the first of the month following six (6) months of continuous service at Fording Operations.
The Company will provide a dental services plan which will provide for payment of 50% of services commonly referred to as Plan“C” to a lifetime maximum, effective October 7, 1986, of $1,500 per family member.
The Dental Plan will be carried by a commercial insurer and the terms of any such insurance policy will be binding on the employees. The Company's obligation under the Plan is restricted to paying the actual premiums charged by the insurer.
22.07	Optical Plan
The Company shall maintain a Vision Care Plan on a costsharing basis of 40% paid by the employee and 60% paid by the Company. The Plan will provide employees and their dependants with 80% of the cost after the employee has satisfied an annual deductible of $25.00 of medical expenses underthe Extended Health Plan of M.S.A.. The maximum benefit paid in any two (2) year period will be $60.00.
22.08	Premium Rebates
The employee's portion of the reduced Unemployment Insurance Commission premiums resulting from registration of the Sickness and Accident Benefit Plans will continue to be directed toward employee benefit plans.
ARTICLE 23. PENSION PLAN
23.01	The previous Guaranteed Retirement Income Plan for salaried employees will continue to apply to the employees under this Agreement until April 30,1980. Effective May 1,1980 the above-mentioned plan will be replaced by a new “best earnings” plan. For administrative purposes, the Plan is printed in a separate booklet.
63
The Company will guarantee that no current employee who is now age 55 orolderwill receive lower benefits at any time than he or she would have underthe present U.S.W.A., Local 9702 Pension Plan. This applies at normal or early retirement, in the case of payment to the widows, or in the case of a deferred payment to a vested employee who commences his or her pension at age 65. For either Pension Plan, the definition of “dependent spouse” will include a person of the opposite sex who has lived with the pensioner for two (2) or more years where there is a bar to their marriage or at least one (1) year where there is no such bar and the pensioner and that person have publicly declared themselves as man and wife and have so advised the Company in writing.
ARTICLE 24. ON LOAN
24.01	In the interest of making the most flexible use of the skills available within the Company it is desirable from time to time to loan employees between various operations of the Company on a temporary basis. The following conditions will apply to employees on loan where the employee is required to live away from his normal place of residence:
(a)	All loan assignments shall be voluntary.
(b)	The rate of pay of an employee on loan will be the greater of his regular rate of pay or the rate provided for the job in the Collective Agreement in effect at the receiving operation. If there is no Collective Agreement in effect at the receiving operation, the employee will be paid no less than his regular rate of pay.
(c) Employees “on loan” will be required to work on one of the schedules in effect at the receiving operation, The duration of a normalwork shift and all other provisions of the Collective Agreement in effect at,the dispatching operation will prevail.
64
(d)	Accommodation and board will be selected by and provided at Company expense. Employeeswill be advised of accommodation and board prior to assignment.
(e)	Transportation will be supplied by the Company. If an employee elects to use his personal car for transportation, he will be reimbursed at the rate per mile which prevails in the Company regulations at the time the assignment is carried out. Such reimbursement will be made for the initial trip and the trip home at the conclusion of the loan assignment.
(f)	Travel time paid in any one day will be limitedto eight (8) hours. It is agreed that employees who travel on their rest days will be paid at the applicable overtime rate.
(g)	A loan assignment will be a maximum of five (5) weeks. If an employee elects to remain on loan for a period in excess of five (5) weeks he will be provided with transportation home after every five (5) weeks on loan.
(h)	A day off with pay shall be granted for each regular work week on loan, and such accumulated leave may be taken before returning to work after conclusion of a loan assignment.
If leave is not taken at the end of the loan assignment, it shall be taken at the convenience of the operation.
(i)	An allowance of fifty dollars ($50.00) per week will be paid to employees on loan for each week on loan. Loan assignments of less than one (1) week will be prorated.
(j)	The Company will advise the Union in writing of employees accepting loan assignments.
65
ARTICLE 25. TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
25.01	Purpose
The parties acknowledge that the long term interests of both the Company and the employees are best served if the Company maintains and, if possible, improves its competitive position. In order to do this the Company may make technological changes. However, both parties also recognizethe importanceof lessening the effects of technological change as much as reasonably possible on the security and earnings of employees, particularly those more senior in the service, who may be displaced as a result of technological change.
25.02	Definition
For the purpose of this Article, “Technological Change” means the automation, modification, or replacement of machinery or equipment, or the mechanization or automation of duties which causes the displacement of an employee(s) or has a detrimental effect on the incumbent's wage rate.
25.03	Prior Notice
The Company shall provide the Union, in writing, ninety (90) days prior notice of the implementation of any technological change.
25.04	Company-Union Meetings
On request by either party, the Industrial Relations department and Union President or his designate will meet for the purpose of discussing the effects of any technological change. Further meetings will be held, as far in advance as practical of the time the technological change is to take place, for the purpose of implementing the specific application of this Article. At all meetings, meaningful discussions shall be held to resolve issues arising from the effects or implementation of technological change.
66
25.05	Maintenance of Rate Benefit
In the event that technological changes are instituted at any time in this operation which' result in the demotion of any employee, the rate of pay of such employee shall be protected in accordance with the provisions of marginal paragraph 15.13. It is understood that this shall not apply in the case of demotions for other reasons including reduction of crews for reasons other than technological change.
25.06	Training Benefit
The Company will provide an employee with training or retraining on the job which will provide as closely as possible, the job classification level which the employee held before his displacement. To provide this training/retrain-ing, the Company and Union mutually agree that the provisions of the Collective Agreement regarding the posting of jobs shall not apply, provided such assignment does not result in the displacement of any current job incumbent. This training or retraining period will be up tothirty (30) days in duration.
Ifthe employee chooses notto accept the training/retrain-ing offered, the provision of marginal paragraph 25.05 shall not apply. However, all rights provided for in the seniority provisions of the Collective Agreement shall apply.
25.07	Severance Benefit
If an employee loses his employment with the Company as a result of technological change, he will be entitled to a termination allowance, in addition to the normal severance pay, at the time of his termination, as follows: a minimum of two (2) weeks' pay at his normal base salary; PLUS one (1) additional week's pay at his normal base salary for each complete year of service to a maximum of eight (8) weeks in total.
67
Note:	This Article shall apply to non-probationary per-
manent employees.
ARTICLE 26. LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
26.01	The following Letters of Understanding are in effect during the course of the 1985-89 Collective Agreement:
Subject Index
1 Counselling Interviews
2.	Vacation Scheduling
3.	Standing Contract Language Committee
4.	Joint Training
5.	Partial or Temporary Layoffs
6.	Labour-Management Relations Committee
7.	Appendix “A” - Cost of Living Allowance
8.	Safety Chairman Pay
9.	Fast Track Arbitration
9.1	Expedited Arbitration
10.	Seasonal Vacation Bonus
11.	Supervisor's Bumping Rights
12.	4 Days On, 4 Days Off, 12 Hour Shift Schedule
13.	Displacement of Dean McKerracher
14.	Engineering 4 On,4 Off Schedule
68
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - NO. 1 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
SUBJECT: Counselling Interviews
The Company uses a counselling procedure regarding improvements or lapses in employee work performance and recognition of meritorious work performance. Generally, the supervisor involved prepares a Counselling Interview Report (C.I.R.) after such counselling sessions. A counselling session is a matter between the supervisor and the individual employee.
One purpose of counselling is to identify and correct lapses in work performance so that formal disciplinary action will not be necessary. Without such a procedure, it is likely that there would be far more discipline given out for what could be easily correctible work performance situations.
In all cases where a C.I.R. is prepared for filing, the employee will be advised Sfnd given the opportunity to read, discuss, and sign (as acknowledgement of having read) the C.I.R. with his supervisor. Each employee will be given a copy of the Counselling Interview Report if requested.
The counselling procedure is a positive step in establishing and maintaining good relationships between employees and supervision.
The parties agree to meet to discuss any concerns re: the application of this procedure.
69
Dated this 2nd day of December, 1985, at Elkford, B.C. FORDING COAL LIMITED U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9702
(T. G. Davies)
(K. Neumann)
(D. A. Stokes)
(D. Gonnelly)
70
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - No. 2 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
VACATION SCHEDULING
Vacation lists will be posted no later than January 15th of each year. Employees may then indicate their preference in vacation dates to supervision.
After March 1st of each year, the Company will schedule vacations in accordance with Bargaining Unit seniority for those employees who have indicated their preference. Employees who do not indicate their preference will have their vacation periods scheduled by the Company.
Recognizing the Company has the right to schedule or re-schedule all or any vacations the Company will advise, upon a request by an employee, the current status of his scheduled vacation.
Dated this 6th day of October, 1986, at Elkford, B.C.
FORDING COAL LIMITED	U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9702
(D. L. Gaspe)	(R. Dean)
(T. G. Davies)	(K. Neumann)
(P. D. Johnston)
71
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING • No. 3 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
CONTRACT LANGUAGE
The parties agree, that because of the length of this contract, it may be appropriate from time to time to consider revisions to the Collective Agreement in respect to noncost contract language items to the Employer.
Therefore, the parties agreeto establish a Standing Committee on Contract Language, whiph shall consist of three
(3)	Senior members of the bargaining unit chosen by the Union, and three (3)Senior members of Management, chosen by the Company, one of which will be the Manager, Employee Relations. The Employer and the Union shall designate one (1) of their appointees to act as a cochairman.
The Standing Committee shall meet to consider revisions tothe Collective Agreement at the call of either the President of the Local Union or the General Manager, or at the call of the co-chairman.
Within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the call, either party may make proposals for contract language change. The parties agree that the proposals (including the rewording of a proposed changed clause), and a complete written rationale for each proposal will be presented.
The Standing Committee shall have the power to make recommendations to both parties for contractual revisions, and in the event the recommendations are accepted, subject to ratification by the Local 9702 membership, such revisions shall be incorporated into the Collective Agreement and shall be binding on the parties.
72
It is agreed that this committee will be constituted effective six months from the date of ratification of this Contract.
Dated this 28th day of November, 1985, at Elkford, B.C. FORDING COAL LIMITED U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9702
(T. G. Davies)	(D. Gonnelly)
(D. A. Stokes)
(K. Neumann)
73
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - No. 4 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
JOINT TRAINING
The parties agree to implement a program of Joint Com-pany/Union training as follows:
1.	Duringthe course of the 1985-1989 Collective Agreement, joint training sessions will be developed to cover such areas as:
a)	Changesto the 1985-1989 Collective Agreement arising from bargaining;
b)	The roles of Stewards and Supervisors/Foremen in grievances, safety, contract administration, efficiency of operations, etc.;
c)	Working together - workplace relationships.
Course content and material will be developed from resources available through the Company and U.S.W.A. office.
2.	The Company will ensure no Steward will suffer any loss of regular earnings as a result of attendance at these seminars.
3.	The parties will meet prior to these seminars to arrange satisfactory dates, times and course content.
Dated this 27th day of June, 1985, at Elkford, B.C.
J. G. Gardiner, Vice-president and General Manager, Fording Coal Limited.
D. Gonnelly, President,
U.S.W.A., Local 9702.
74
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - NO. 5 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
SUBJECT: Partial or Temporary Layoffs or Shutdowns
It is the intent of the Company to notify the Union as far in advance as possible of any pending layoff or shutdown. This advance notice shall be accomplished by notifying the Union fourteen (14) days in advance, if practical, with a minimum of one (1) week's notice.
The Union President will be invited to a meeting prior to the actual layoff or shutdown date. The purpose of such a meeting will be to formally advise the Union of the pending layoff or shutdown and the operating plans, if any, the Company has during such periods. Examples of information provided will be: areas, functions and equipment required, job categories and numbers of employees required, and, as current as possible, listings of those employees scheduled to work. Scheduling of employees will be in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
It should be recognized that any information provided will be subject to change as circumstances change up to and during the layoff or shutdown period. It should also be recognized that errors or other problems in scheduling could arise and that the Union undertakes to bring them to the attention of the Company as quickly as possible and prior to embarking on any grievance activity.
The purpose of such meetings and information sharing is to ensure fairness in terms of employment opportunity to all affected employees, safety considerations and reasonable efficiency and productivity of the operation during the layoff or shutdown period.
75
Dated this 1st day of August , 1985, at Elkford, B.C,
FORDING COAL LIMITED	U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9702
(T. G. Davies)	(D. Gonnelly)
(D. A. Stokes)	(R. Dean)
(J. F. Jones)
76
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDING- No. 6 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
LABOUR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS COMMITTEE ■ LOCAL 9702
PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The Company and the Union recognize the mutual benefits of ongoing meetings and open communications between employer and employees. To this end, the parties have agreed to establish a Labour-Management Relations Committee on a trial basis for the term of this Agreement.
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE:
The Committee shall consist of the following:
a)	Up to three (3) appointees from Senior Management Staff;
b)	The President, Vice-president and one employee appointee designated by the Union.
TERMS OF REFERENCE:
The Labour-Management Committee is intended to be an open forum wherein matters of mutual concern and benefit can be freely and candidly discussed. Standing topics for the agenda in each meeting are Employee-Company relations, work assignment, effective and efficient operations, and general working conditions.
LIMITATION:
a) The parties understand and agree that the Labour-Management Committee is not intended to serve as a supplement or alternative to the grievance-arbitration process; norto interfere with or attempt
77
to renegotiate any provision of the Collective Agreement.
b) The Labour-Management Committee is limited to serving as a vehicle forjoint discussion with aview to exploring possible solutions to mutual problems and concerns. The Labour-Management Committee is in noway intended to limit or restrict the rights reserved to the Company to manage its operations or affairs.
FREQUENCY OF MEETINGS
a)	Meetings will be scheduled on a monthly basis, but more or fewer meetings may be scheduled as needs and circumstances dictate.
b)	Ad hoc meetings of the Labour-Management Committee may be called on reasonablegrounds and with reasonable notice. The request for such a meeting will not be unreasonably refused by the Company, but the right is always reserved to the Company to require that such meetings be scheduled as to cause minimum interference to normal operations.
REMUNERATION MAINTAINED:
a)	An employee appointee who is participating in meetings of the Labour-Management Committee will not suffer any loss of pay when such meetings are held during working hours.
b)	The parties recognize and agree that on occasion it may be desirable that the Labour-ManagementCom-mittee meets at a time other than during working hours.
Dated this 27th day of June, 1985, at Elkford, B.C.
J. G, Gardiner, Vice-president and General Manager, Fording Coal Limited.
D. Gonnelly, President,
U.S.W.A., Local 9702.
78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - No. 7 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
The parties agree that for the period of the Collective Agreement (May 1,1985- April 30,1989), the following Articles are suspended and will have no meaning:
1) Appendix “A” - Cost of Living Allowance.
Dated at Elkford, B.C. this 7th day of October, 1986.
FORDING COAL LIMITED	U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9702
(D. L. Gaspe)	(R. Dean)
(T. G. Davies)	(K. Neumann)
(P. D. Johnston)
79
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - No. 8 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
SAFETY CHAIRMAN PAY
Effective June27,1985, the Company will paythe Union Safety Chairman straight time ratesfor attending scheduled safety meetings, mine and plant safety tours, accident investigations and meetings scheduled by the Company if the Safety Chairman is required to attend any of the above while on scheduled time off.
Dated this 27th day of June, 1985, at Elkford, B.C.
FORDING COAL LIMITED U.S.W.A., LOCAL9702
(S. H. Noble)	(D. Gonnelly)
(T. G. Davies)
(K. Neumann)
80
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ■ No. 9
June 27, 1985
Mr. Dave Gonnelly,
President,
U.S.W.A., Local 9702,
P.O. Box 370,
Elkford, B.C.
VOB 1H0 Dear Sir:
Re: Fast Track Arbitration
The following should outline the administrative procedures for expedited arbitrations:
Arbitrator
The Arbitrator shall be Mr. M. I. Chertkow, or, if unavailable, another, as agreed upon by the parties.
Schedule of Hearings
The hearing dates for expedited arbitrations shall be agreed to between the Company, Union and the Arbitrator at such places and times as the parties shall agree upon.
Payment of Arbitrator
The Arbitrator shall be guaranteed one day of each set of two days that has been pre-booked. Two weeks’ notice must be provided if more or less than two days are required in each session. The payment of the Arbitrator shall be as perSection 112 of the B.C. LabourCode; i.e., shared costs - 1/3 Company, 1/3 Union, 1/3 Government. Meetings Prior to the Scheduled Hearings The parties shall meet three weeks in advance of the scheduled hearings to determine:
1.	Which disputes shall be heard, and,
2.	An agreed statement of the facts on each dispute.
81
Note: Evidence may be called if there is a dispute on the facts or if there is an issue of credibility.
3.	Agreement on the positions that each party has taken and will take at the expedited arbitration.
Two weeks prior to the scheduled hearings, the above information shall be forwarded to the Arbitrator. In the event that there are no disputes to be heard, the parties may agree to have a training session on an agreed subject, in place of the hearings. Again, a minimum of two weeks' notice to the Arbitrator is required.
The Hearing Process
Generally, the hearing shall follow the arbitration format. Neither party may use legal counsel to present their case.
The parties agree to meet to resolve any further questions with respect to the expedited arbitration procedure.
Sincerely yours,
S. H. Noble,
Director,
Employee Relations.
cc: J. G. Gardiner T. G. Davies R. H. Noonan K. Neumann M. I. Chertkow
Acknowledged:
D. Gonnelly, President, U.S.W.A., Local 9702.
82
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - No. 9.1 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
The parties shall forthwith implement the following expedited arbitration procedure,collateral to that procedure set out in Article 7 of the Collective Agreement:
1.' All grievances shall be considered suitable for, and resolved by, expedited arbitration, except grievances in the nature of:
a)	Dismissals,
b)	Probation dismissals,
c)	Suspensions without pay,
d)	Policy grievances,
e)	Grievances requiring an interpretation of a provision of the Collective Agreement, which may impact on employees other than the grievor,
f)	Grievances where extrinsic evidence is required,
g)	Grievancesthat will have preliminary objections aired (otherthan preliminary objections on time limits in marginal paragraphs 7.03 and 7.05 for Local 9702),
h)	Grievances involving demotions, where bumping has occurred and an employee may be laid off,
i)	Grievances involving safety and health,
j)	Grievances involving Article 25 of Local 9702 (Technological Change),
k)	Grievancesinvolving marginal paragraph4.04(b) of Local 9702.
By mutual agreement, a grievance falling into any of these categories may be placed into the expedited arbitration process.
83
2.	Either party shall havethe rightto withdrawfromthe expedited arbitration process, and refera grievance to a regulararbitration hearing, pursuantto marginal paragraphs7.03 and 7.04 of Local 9702.
3.	The parties mutually agree that Mr. M. I. Chertkow, ora substitute as mutually agreed upon, shall be appointed to hear and resolve grievances with this process.
4.	The arbitrator shall hear the grievances, and shall render a decision within five working days of such hearings. A brief, written reason for the decision shall be provided.
5.	Arbitration awards shall be of no precedential value, and shall not thereafter be referredto by the parties in respect of any other matter.
6.	All settlements of expedited arbitration cases prior to hearing shall be without prejudice.
7.	All expedited arbitration casesshall come underthe provisions of marginal paragraph7.04 of Local9702.
8. The hearing dates for expedited arbitrations shall be agreed to between the Company, Union and the Arbitrator at such placesand times as the parties shall agree upon.
This Letter of Understanding shall expire on the expiry
of the current Collective Agreement, unless renewed by
mutual agreement of the parties.
Dated this 27th day of June, 1985, at Elkford, B.C.
FORDING COAL LIMITED U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9702
(S. H. Noble)	(D. Gonnelly)
(T. G. Davies)	(K. Neumann)
84
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - No. 10 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
The parties agree that the provisions of Article 17.08 (Seasonal Vacation Bonus) are suspended and shall not be in effect during the term cf the Collective Agreement.
Dated at Elkford, B.C. the 12th day of January, 1986.
LOCAL 9702
(D. A. Stokes)
(R. Dean)
T. G. Davies, Manager,	President,
Employee Relations,	ical 9702.
Fording Coal Limited.
85
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING- NO. 11 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
SUBJECT: Supervisor’s Bumping Rights
Forthe purpose of new Article 14.10 only, the supervisor classification of Maintenance Supervisor, H. E, shall be deemed to include job numbers51.697, 51.769 and 51.765; the supervisor classification of Welding/Fab Supervisor shall bedeemedto include job numbers51.574 and 51.716; and the supervisor classification of Electrical Supervisor shall bedeemedto includejob numbers51.736 and51.571.
It is understood that the Company will review the updated job classification lists under Appendix A (1 & 2) prior to its implementation.
Dated this 7th day of December, 1985, at Elkford, B.C. FORDING COAL LIMITED U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9702
(T. G. Davies)
(D. Gonnelly)
86
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - NO. 12 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
SUBJECT:4 Days On, 4 DaysOff, 12 HourShift Schedule
Further to our discussions, where an employee does not work the complete work cycle for any one of the following reasons, the bank day will not be accumulated or paid for at overtime rates of pay:
1.	A.W.O.L.
2.	Unpaid Leave (except for Vacation Roundout).
3.	Maternity Leave.
4.	Last workday in cycle scheduled as day off.
5.	Illegal work stoppage.
6.	Periods of Unpaid Suspension.
7.	Days when no work is available (including shutdowns).
8.	Periods on Inactive or Disability Insurance.
These reasons for disqualification will not change during the term of the Collective Agreement.
Dated this 13th day of December, 1985, at Elkford, B.C. FORDING COAL LIMITED U.S.W.A.. LOCAL 9702
(T. G. Davies)
(D. Gonnelly)
87
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - No. 13 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
COVE	3	THE I	C	H -NT Ol
DEAN	i C	IN	P iNSIO	I
BENEFIT ENTITLEMEN S
Dean Mi	who was a member of Local 9702 in
temb 1984 and employed in the Local 9702 bargain-ig unit, who was displaced in September, 1984 int the Local 7884 g c will, | i retirement as a Lc ; 7884 member, be entitled to receive a seperate pension benefit based on his years of service as an employee inthe9702 ii unitin dai c vitt n terms ofthe Local9702 F	Plan atthe time of his displace-
m« provi re l had vested in the 9702 Pension Plan prior to his displacement.
It is understood that D. McKerracher will receive this di efit only if the benefit i I I I i :t a way that hewill receivean increaseover it a7884 pension would vide.
Dated at
B.C. on October 7 1986.
FORDING CC
flITED
! LOCAL 9702
(D. L. Gaspe)	(R. Dean)
(T. G. Davies)	(K. Neumann)
(D. A. Stokes)	
88
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - No. 14 BETWEEN
FORDING COAL LIMITED AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9702
All provisions of the Collective Agreement and the 4x4
Memorandum in effect between the parties shall apply
to the employees covered by this Letter of Understanding,
except as modified or restricted by this Letter.
1.	EMPLOYEES COVERED BY THIS LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The provisions of this Letter of Understanding shall apply to all employees engaged in a four (4) days on and four (4) days off, eleven (11) or twelve (12) hour shift schedule in the Engineering Department.
2.	GENERAL CONDITIONS
A.	The normal work day shall be twelve (12) consecutive hours on Saturdays and Sundays and eleven (11) consecutive hours from Monday to Friday inclusive at the employee's designated working place in a twenty. four (24) hour period.
B.	The work cycle shall be fifty-six (56) consecutive days. Hours of work shall average thirty-seven and one-half (37112) hours per week over the complete work cycle. The average thirty-seven and one-half (37 112) hour week shall be accomplished by paying out forty (40) minutes worked at the rate of one and one-half (1 112) times at the end of each complete work cycle worked by the employee.
C.	The normal shift shall be from 7:00 A.M. - 7:00 P.M. on weekends, and 8:00 AM. - 7:00 P.M. on weekdays.
D.	On the twelve (12) hour shifts, two (2)twenty (20) minute unpaid lunch periodswill be provided and eleven (11) hours, twenty (20) minutes will be the normal
89
working hours. On the eleven (11) hour shifts, one (1) thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period will be provided and ten (10) hours, thirty (30) minutes will be the normal working hours.
3.	REPORTING PAY
When an employee reports on any assigned shift and is sent home because no work is available, or so that he may come to work at a later time, he shall be paid six (6) hours for the twelve (12) hourshifts orfive and one-half (51/2) hoursforthe eleven (11) hourshift at his base rate plus shift premium and weekend premium, if applicable, for reporting. If he is assigned to work at a later time, he shall be paid straight time for such work up to twelve (12) or eleven (11) hours in that work day.
These provisions shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work for more than one (1) work day and fails before reporting to work to notify his supervisor of his intention to return to work.
Any employee who works four (4) hours or more in a work day and is sent home so that he may come to work at a later time in that day shall receive overtime rates for all work performed at such later time.
4.	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
The provisions of Section D1-5 ofthe4x4 Memorandum shall apply save and except for the following:
A.	If an employee is required to work more than the normal working hours in a shift on a Statutory Holiday, or a day that is declared in lieu of a Statutory Holiday, he will be paid two and one-half (2 112) times his equivalent hourly rate for those hours worked which are in excess of the normal working hours in such shift.
B.	Any reference to eight (8) hours work or pay shall be amended to reflect seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours work or pay.
90
5.	ANNUAL VACATIONS
A. For the purpose of this Letter of Understanding, a week of vacation shall consist of one (1) work period of four (4) working days plus four (4) days off. For the purpose of computing vacation pay, the word "week" shall be considered as constituting thirty-seven and one-half (37 1/2) hours.
NOTE: Roundout provisions shall be in accordance with Marginal Paragraph 17.07.
1.	An employee who has been in the service of the Company less than one (1) year prior to the first day of January in any year, shall be entitled to a vacation and leave with pay as follows:
(a)	If hired between January 1st and August 31st inclusive of the previous year, seventy-five (75) hours off with pay.
(b)	If hired between September 1 st and December 31st inclusive of the previous year, thirty-seven and one-half (37 112) hours off with pay, plus thirty-seven and one-half (37 1/2) unpaid hours off, if requested.
2.	An employee shall be entitled to a vacation with pay
as follows: Complete Yrs/Service As CE 1st Day Jan. Any Year	Hours Of Vacation With Pay Entitlement	Plateau Years
1	90	3 weeks
2	112.5 .	
3	112.5	
4	120	
5	127.5	
6	135	
7	142	
8	150	4 weeks
9	150	
10	157.5	
91
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
157.5 165 165
172.5
172.5 180 180
187.5	5 weeks
187.5 195 195
202.5
202.5 210 210
217.5
217.5
225	6 weeks
B. For the purpose of this Letter of Understanding, an employee vacation adjustment entitlement under Marginal Paragraph 17.06, will be calculated in terms of seven and one-half (7 1/2) hour work days.
6.	SPECIAL VACATIONS
The provisions of Section “G” ofthe4x4 Memorandum shall apply save and except for the following:
For the purpose of computing vacation pay, the word “week” shall be considered as constituting thirty-seven and one-half (37 1/2) hours.
7.	SICK LEAVE
The basic Sick Leave Plan shall apply, except for sick credit accumulation. Sick credits shall accumulate at the rate of seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours per month, ninety (90) hours peryear, to a maximum of six hundred and seventy-five (675) hours.
92
a.	ON-CALL
The On-Call premium shall be eighteen dollars ($18.00) for the twelve (12) hour shift and sixteen dollars and fifty cents ($16.50) for the eleven (11) hour shift.
9. EXCLUSIONS
The following Marginal Paragraphsof the Collective Agreement and sections of the 4x4 Memorandum shall not apply to employees covered by this Agreement:
9.02(a), (b); 9.03; 9.05; 9.07; 10.01; 10.02; 10.11; 11.02; 13.03; 17.01; 17.02; 17.03; 17.04 B(1),(3),(4),(5),(6); C(5); F(1),(2),(6); H, I and J.
Dated this 26th day of August, 1985 at Elkford, B.C.
FORDING COAL LIMITED U.S.W.A., LOCAL 9702
(T. G. Davies)
(David Gonnelly)
93
TERM
The term of the Collective Agreement will he from May
1.	1985 to April 30. 1989.
It is specifically agreed between the parties hereto, in accordance with subsection (3) of Section 66 of the Labour Code of British Columbia, that the operation of subsection (2) of Section 66 is hereby excluded and shall not be applicable to this Agreement.
This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and upon their respective successors and assigns.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
FORDING COAL LIMITED UNITED STEELWORKERS
OF AMERICA, LOCAL9702
“D. L. GASPE”	“R. DEAN”
“P. D. JOHNSTON”	“T. ANONSON”
“T. G. DAVIES”	“J. STRBAN”
“D. A STOKES”	“M. SMITH”
“R. H. NOONAN”	“H. COUTTS”
“J. F. JONES”	“R. CHARBONNEAU”
	“K. NEUMANN”
94
4 DAYS ON, 4 DAYS OFF, 12 HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE
Memorandum of Agreement
All provisions of the Collective Agreement in effect between the parties shall apply to the employees covered by this Agreement except as modified or restricted by a clause of this Agreement.
The parties shall mutually agree before any employee or group of employees are included in the four days on and four days off, twelve hour shift schedule, provided these inclusions are approved by the Minister of Mines and the Minister of Labour.
Such employees will be covered by this Agreement with such modifications as may be required and which are agreed to by the parties.
A.	Employees Covered by This Agreement
The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all employees engaged in the four days on and four days off, twelve hour shift schedules.
B.	General Conditions
1.	The normal work day shall be twelve consecutive hours of work at the employee's designated working place in a twenty-four hour period.
2.	The work period shall be defined as an employee's complete period of days starting with his first scheduled work day and concluding at the end of his last scheduled rest day.
3.	The work cycle shall be forty-two consecutive days. Schedules of work shall average forty hours per week over the complete work cycle. The average forty hour week shall be accomplished by banking the last twelve hour shift worked as a rest day once during every work cycle of forty-two days. The accumulated rest days will be scheduled as time off by the Company
95
	in periodsof four successive working days. However, if some other arrangements for taking accumulated rest days off can be arrived at by an employee and the Company which is mutually agreeable, this may be done. Accumulated rest days may not exceed six in number.
	The employee shall have the option of working the last twelve hour shift during the work cycle at overtime rates in lieu of banking a rest day.
4.	The work schedule of each employee shall be four consecutive days of work followed by four consecutive days of rest. The four consecutive days of work shall consist of two consecutive day shifts of twelve hours each, followed by two consecutive night shifts of twelve hours each
	or such other shift arrangement as may be agreed upon by the parties.
5.	The normal shift will be day shift, commencing at 7:00 AM., and night shift commencing at 7:00 P.M. or such other arrangements as may be agreed upon by the parties.
6.	Two paid lunch periods of twenty minutes duration each will be provided during the twelve hour shift. Subject to the needs of the operation during such lunch periods, the employees shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenanceof services. Employees are responsible for providing their own lunches.
C. Overtime Work	
Overtime occurs when an employee is required to work more than his scheduled hours of work in a work	
day or on a scheduled rest day. Overtime shall be paid as follows:	
1.	For the first six (6) hours of overtime worked during an employee's work period, the rate of pay
	96
shall be one and one-half (1 112) times the base rate of the employee.
2.	Forall overtime worked by an employee during his work period which is in excess of six (6) hours overtime during that period, the rate of pay shall be two (2) times the base rate of the employee.
3.	Overtime which is in excess of eight hours overtime during an employee's work period shall be voluntary with the exception that in any operation where a qualified replacement is not available the employee may be requiredto remain at work.
All overtime in a work period is subject to the following conditions:
(a)	where urgent or necessary relief work is essential to the continuance of the ordinary working of the mine, but only on an occasional basis and not, in any case, for a longer period than sixteen (16) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period; OR
(b)	where an emergency exists where life or property is in danger; OR
(c)	where there is a necessity for a periodic change of shift.
4.	Where the Company changes an employee's work schedule during a work period and the employee is required to work in excess of his normal work day of his previous schedule or on the rest days of his previous schedule, he shall be paid overtime rates for that time worked. The new schedule will become the employee's regular schedule at the conclusion of the rest days of his previous schedule.
97
5.	When an employee reports on any assigned shift and is sent home because no work is available, or so that he may come to work at a later time, he shall be paid six (6) hours at his base rate plus shift premium and weekend premium if applicable for reporting. If he is assigned to work at a later time he shall be paid straight time for such work up to twelve (12) hours in that work day.
	These provisions shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work for more than one (1) work day and fails before reporting to workto notify his supervisor of his intention to return to work.
	Any employee who works four (4) hours or more in a work day and is sent home so that he may come to work at a later time in that work day shall receive overtime rates for all work performed at such later time.
D. Statutory Holidays 1. An employee's entitlement is to be determined in accordance with the provisions of marginal paragraph 11.01 of the Collective Agreement.	
2.	An employee who is required to work on a Statutory Holiday or a day that is declared in lieu of a Statutory Holiday will be paid as follows:
	(i) If the holiday falls on a scheduled day of rest, he will receivetwo and one-half (2-1/2) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked. OR
	One and one-half (1 1/2) times his equivalent hourly rateforthe number of hours worked plus equal time off with pay at the convenience of the operation. 98
(ii) If the holiday falls on a normal work day, he will receive one and one-half (1 1/2) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked.
OR
One-half (112) times his equivalent hourly rate for the number of hours worked plus equal time off with pay at the convenience of the operation.
If an employee works more than twelve hours, he will be paidtwo and one-half (21/2) times his equivalent hourly rate for those hours worked which are in excess of twelve hours on such work day.
Section D, subsection 2 applies only to time worked on the day designated by the Company as the Statutory Holiday.
3- When a Statutory Holiday falls on an employee’s rest day or during a scheduled vacation, the provisions of marginal paragaph 11.03, sections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) shall apply except for pay. Pay will be for eight (8) hours at the employee's base rate.
4.	An employee who is scheduled to work on a Statutory Holiday and who works only part of his assigned shift will be paid one and one-half (1 112) times his base rate for the time worked.
An employee who is required to work on a Statutory Holiday which falls on his scheduled day of rest and who works only part of his assigned shift will be paid two and one-half (21/2) times his base rate for the time worked.
If the period worked is less than eight fSJhours the employee shall be paid his base rate exclusive of continuous schedule differentials, overtime bonuses, holiday or other premiums for the
99
difference between his actual hours worked and eight (8) hours.
5.	Pay for Floating Statutory Holidays will be for a maximum of eight (8) hours at the employee's base rate.
E.	Bereavement Leave
Provisions of marginal paragraph 19.01 of the Collective Agreement shall apply to employees covered by this Agreement except for pay. Paywill be up to thirty-six (36) hours in 19.01 (i) and up to twenty-four (24) hours in 19.01 (ii) at the employee’s base rate for the period of bereavement.
If required, the employee will be granted an additional twelve (12) hours of unpaid leave to complete his entitlement.
F.	Annual Vacations
For the purpose of this Agreement, a week of vacation shall consist of one (1) work period of four (4) working days plus four (4) days off. For the purpose of computing vacation pay, the word “week” shall be considered as constituting forty (40) hours. Note: Roundout provisions shall be in accordance with marginal paragraph 17.07.
1. An employee who has been in the service of the Company less than one (1)year priorto the first day of January in any year shall be entitledto a vacation and leave with pay as follows:
(a)	If hired between January 1st and August 31st inclusive of the previous year, eighty (80) hours off with pay,
(b)	Ifhired between September 1 st and Decem-ber31st inclusive of the previous year, forty (40) hours off with pay, plus forty (40) unpaid hours off if requested.
100
2. An employee shall be entitled to a vacation with pay as follows:
Complete YrsI Service As Of The First Day In January of Any Yr.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
Hours of Vacation With Pay Entitlement
96
120
120
128
136
144
152
160
160
168
168
176
176
184
184
192
192
200
200
208
208
216
216
224
224
232
232
240
Plateau
Years
3 weeks
4 weeks
5 weeks
6 weeks
3. If an employee has been absent from work without pay during the preceding calendar year for
101
any reason other than the employee's sickness or accident, or maternity leave, the periods of vacation with pay, as specified in the above paragraphs shall be reduced by 1124th for each full pay period by which the absence exceeds thirty (30) consecutive days provided, however, that in the case of sickness the employee will not be entitled to any vacation with pay after the absence exceeds twelve (12) consecutive months.
4.	Employeesentitledto two (2) weeks or more paid vacation may split their vacation subject to the approval of their Supervisor.
5.	An employee shall be entitled to unpaid Leave of Absence as the last portion of his annual vacation for the purpose of rounding-out his work period (as defined in marginal paragraph 10.02) subject to the following conditions:
(i) Employees on any work schedule shall be entitled to unpaid Leave of Absence as the last portion of their final vacation period.
Note: This entitlement shall only apply if the employee has scheduled such entitlement with his annual vacation prior to April 1st of the vacation year.
Where an employee has not scheduled this entitlement and wishes to at a later time, the employee shall make such request to his immediate supervisor before the start of such vacation period. Approval in such cases shall be subject to the efficiency of the operations.
6.	For the purpose of this Agreement, an employee's vacation adjustment entitlement under marginal paragraph 17.06 will be calculated in terms of eight (8) hour work days.
102
G.	Special Vacations
The provisions of Article 18 of the Collective Agreement shalt apply save and except for the following:
(a)	For the purpose of this Agreement, a week of vacation shall consist of one work period of four
(4)	working days plus four (4) days off.
(b)	Forthe purpose of computing vacation pay, the word “week” shall be considered as constituting forty (40) hours.
H.	Basic Sick Leave
The provisions of marginal paragraph 22.03 of the Collective Agreement shall apply, except for sick credit accumulation.
Sick credits shall accumulate at the rate cf eight (8) hours per month, ninety-six (96) hours per year to a maximum of seven hundred twenty (720) hours.
I.	On Call
An employee required to standby for a possible call into work shall be paid a premium of eighteen dollars ($18.00) for each shift on call. If called out to work, pay will be in accordance with marginal paragraphs 10.08 and 10.09.
J.	Exclusions
The following marginal paragraphs of the Collective Agreement shall not apply to employees covered by this Agreement:
9.02 (a) & (b), 9.03,9.07,10.01,10.02,10.11,11.02, 13.03, 17.01, 17.02, 17.03, 17.04, 17.05.
APPENDIX “A”
Appendix “A” to the Agreement effective between Fording Coal Limited and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 9702.
103
SALARIES
The following schedulesset out the salary rates and provision effective October7,1986 or as otherwise stated during the term of this Agreement.
	October 7,		1986	May 1, 1987			May 1, 1988			Novt	iber 1,	1988	
Job	Step	Step	Step	Step	Step	Step	Step	Step	Step	Step	Step	Step	lob
Grp.	#1	#2	#3	#1	#2	#3	#1	#2	#3	#1	#2	#3	
17	2008	2062	2171	2041	2096	2206	2105	2162	2276	2146	2204	2320	17
18	2108	2165	2279	2140	2198	2314	2205	2265	2384	2246	2307	2428	18
19	2211	2271	2390	2243	2304	2425	2308	2370	2495	2349	2412	2539	19
20	2315	2378	2503	2348	2411	2538	2412	2478	2608	2453	2629	2668	20
21	2421	2486	2617	2453	2519	2652	2518	2586	2722	2559		§i?§	21
22	2525	2594	2730	2558	2627	2765	2622	2693	2835	2663	2936	2899	22
23	2631	2702	2844	2663	2735	2879	2728	2802	2949	2769	2833	2998	23
24	2737	2811	2959	2769	2844	2994	2834	2911	3064	2875	3863	3288	24
25	2843	2919	3073	2875	2953	3108	2940	3019	3178	2980	3963	3229	25
26	2932	3012	3170	2965	3045	3205	3029	3.111	3275	3070	iisr	§21?	26
27	3023	3105	3268	3055	3138	3303	3120	3204	3373	3161	3236	3812	27
28	3111	3195	3363	3143	3228	3398	3208	3295	3468	3249	3366	3532	28
29	3176	3261	3433	3208	3295	3468	3273	3361	3538	3313	3463	3668	29
30	3255	3343	3519	3287	3376	3554	3352	3443	3624	3393	3969	3966	30
31	3336	3426	3606	3368	3459	3641	3433	3525	3711	3473	mu	§?§§	31
32	3410	3503	3687	3443	3536	3722	3508	3602	3792	3548	3939	3836	32
33	3484	3579	3767	3517	3612	3802	3582	3678	3872	3622	3790	3996	33
34	3559	3656	3848	3592	3689	3883	3657	3755	3953	3697	3993	3997	34
35	3633	3732	3928	3666	3765	3963	3731	3831	4033	3771	3833	4906	35
36	3706	3806	4006	3738	3839'	4041	3803	3905	4111	3843	3932	4253	36
37	3779	3881	4085	3811	3914	4120	3876	3981	4190	3916			37
Job Promotion Procedure
Where an employee bids to a higher rated job, the following procedure will apply:
(a)	if the new job is equal to, one or two job groups higher than the employee's current job, the employee shall retain his step.
(b)	If the new job is three (3) job groups higher than the employee’s current job, the employee, if on a Step higher than Step 1, shall be slotted one Step lower than the employee's current step.
(c)	If the new job is four (4) or more job groups higher than the employee’s current job, the employee shall be placed on Step 1 of the new job group.
Where appropriate certain individuals will have blue circle rate protection (Appendix “B”) as a result of the changed salary schedule.
Note:	The normal progression through the steps re-
quires six (6) months on Step 1 and six (6) months on Step 2 effective from the date the employee started the job. Progression dates will be adjusted to cover absences in excess of thirty (30) consecutive days excluding vacations.
Accounting Clerk Starting Schedule
Basic requirements - Graduate of a technical school in a finance accounting discipline.
-	start at Job Group 21, Step 1
-	after six (6) months to Job Group 21, Step 2 OR Step 1 of assigned job if greater than Job Group 21.
An employee in the Accounting Clerk Starting Schedule who successfully bids to another job will be taken off the starting schedule and paid the appropriate rate for the new job classification.
Technician Starting Schedule
Technical School Graduates - Two (2) Year Graduates
Start at Job Group 20, Step 3 After six (6) months to Job Group 21, Step 3 105
After six (6) months to Job Group 22, Step 3
After six (6) months to Job Group 23, Step 3
Three (3)Year Graduates
Start at Job Group 21, Step 3
After six (6)months to Job Group 22, Step 3
After six (6)months to Job Group 23, Step 3
Related Experience
Employees with related experience will start at the level shown and advance according to the basic starting schedule.
Less than one year - start at Job Group 20, Step 1 With one (1)to two (2) years-start at Job Group 20, Step 2 With two (2) to four (4)years- start at Job Group 20, Step 3 Greater than four (4) years - start at Job Group 21, Step 3 Basic Starting Schedule Start at Job Group 20, Step 1 After six (6) months to Job Group 20, Step 2 After six (6) months to Job Group 20, Step 3 After six (6) months to Job Group 21, Step 3 After six (6) months to Job Group 22, Step 3 After twelve (12) months to Job Group 23, Step 3 An employee on the Technician Starting Schedule who successfully bids to anotherjob will be taken off the starting schedule and paid the appropriate rate for the new job classification.
Technical Advancement Schedule After a Technician has advanced to Job Group 23, Step 3, he may bid to an appropriate job vacancy at Job Group 25 and will advance as follows:
Start at Job Group 25*
After six (6) months to Job Group 26, Step 3 After nine (9)months to Job Group 27, Step 3 After nine (9)months to Job Group 28, Step 3 * The employee will start at the appropriate step level in Job Group 25 and progress to Step 3 before advancing. Classification of employees included in the bargaining unit:
106
1. OFFICE STAFF
Job No.
51.158
51.135
51.778
51.907
51.580
51.676
51.370
51.132
51.608
51.109
51.117
51.056
51.224
51.680
51.448
51.144
51.112 51.111
51.116
51.155
51.775 51.905 51.543
51.776
51.113
51.777 51.134
_________Job Title_______
Accounting Clerk Typist
Payroll Clerk Warehouse Clerk Purchasing Clerk Maintenance Records Clerk Maintenance Planning Clerk Environmental Services Clerk
Payroll Clerk Staff Departmental Clerk,
Mine Ops.
Payables Clerk Payables Data Entry Clerk Personnel Services Clerk Mine Engineering Clerk Backlog Clerk Steno-Clerk Project Engineering Computer Operator
Accounting Clerk, General Accounting Clerk, Receivables
Accounting Clerk, Costs
Micom Operator/ Communications Clerk Inventory Control Clerk Expediting Clerk Plant and Traffic Clerk Invoice Clerk
Accounting Clerk, Ledgers Stores Clerk Senior Payroll Clerk
107
Job Group
17
18 18 19 19 19
19
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
21
21
21
22
22
22
22
22
24
24
25
2. TECHNICIANS AND SUPERVISORY
Job No.____________Job Title_________Job Group
Technician's Starting Schedule (TSS or TAS)
TSS'or	TAS*	Surveying Technician
TSS or TAS	Electronics Technician
TSS or TAS	Development Technician
TSS or TAS	Environmental Services
Technician
TSS or TAS	Draftsman Technician
TSS or TAS	Mining Technician
*TSS - Technician Starting Schedule
*TAS - Technician Advancement Schedule
51.719	Janitorial Supervisor	25
51.774	Stores Supervisor	26
51.559	Process Labour Supervisor	27
51.902	Buyer	27
51.903	Senior Buyer	28
51.623	Equipment Supervisor	29
51.626	Dragline Supervisor	29
51.625	Drill Supervisor	29
51.627	Shovel Supervisor	29
51.624	Truck Supervisor ,	29
51.544	Laboratory Supervisor	29
51.674	Materials Co-ordinator	29
51.259	Senior Surveyor	29
51.772	Warehousing Supervisor	30
51.640	Tire Shop Supervisor	30
51.367	Environmental Services
Supervispr	30
51.577	Area Planner, Proqessing	30
51.672	Area Planner	30
108
51.658	Pit Supervisor	31
51.619	Blasting Supervisor	31
51.633	Mine Services Supervisor	31
51.446	Electrical Design Draftsman	31
51.697	Maintenance Supervisor,
H.E.	32
51.769	Maintenance Supervisor,
H.E.	32
51.722	Machinist Supervisor	32
51.736	Electrical Supervisor	32
51.574	Welding/Fab Supervisor	32
51.716	Welding/Fab Supervisor	32
51.578	Carpenter Supervisor	32
51.573	Maintenance Supervisor	32
51.705	Maintenance Supervisor,
L.E.	32
51.572	Maintenance Supervisor,
Proc. Instr.	32
51.765	Field Maintenance
Supervisor	32
51.571	Electrical Supervisor	32
51.575	Pipefitter Supervisor	32
51.445	Electrical Designer	34
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
1. The Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) shall be suspended during the term of this Agreement. For record purposes only, the formula is outlined hereinafter.
2.
3.
The Cost of Living Allowance shall be based on the Consumer Price Index (all items - base 1981 equals 100) published by Statistics Canada (hereinafter referred to as CPI).
The Cost of Living Allowance shall be equal to one cent (1-) for each 0.11 point rise in the CPI as hereinafter determined counting as a full cent any fraction of one-half cent (1/2-) or more.
109
4.	The Cost of Living Allowance shall only be paid for hours actually worked and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall not be included in the calculation of overtime rates, vacation and statutory holiday pay, incentive plans or any other premiums or benefits.
Note:	on those dates specified as “roll-in” dates,
the “roll-in” amount will be calculated on a174 hour per month basis and applied to the Step 3 salary levels.
5.	In the event that Statistics Canada does not issue the CPI on or before the beginning of the periods referred to, any pay adjustments required shall be made at the beginning of the first pay period after publication of the CPI and shall be retroactive to the commencement of the appropriate period. In the event that a retroactive adjustment is made by Statistics CanadatotheCPI it is agreed that the paid allowance to the employees will not be adjusted retroactively.
6.	The parties to this Agreement agree that the continuance of the Cost of Living Allowance will depend on availability of the monthly Statistics Canada CPI in its present form and calculated on the same basis as the index for 1981. If Statistics Canada changes the form or basis of calculating the CPI, the parties shall attempt to determine an appropriate index figure by agreement. If agreement is not reached the parties agree to request Statistics Canada to make available for the rest of this Agreement a monthly CPI in its present form calculated on the same basis as the index for 1981.
APPENDIX “B”
1. Joint Job Evaluation Committee
(a)	The Joint Job Evaluation Committee will be composed of a Union committee chairman and
110
(a)	one Union representative and one Company committee chairman and one Company representative. The Committee will be under the chairmanship of the Company chairman. Alternate committee members may be designated by the Union and the Company by mutual agreement of the chairmen. Members of the Joint Committee who are relieved from their jobs during working hours to assist in carrying out the functions of Joint Job Evaluation will be paid by the Company at their regular job rates for the time during their regular shifts, thereby preventing any loss in regular income.
(b)	The Joint Committee will have access to any relevant information they require such as interviewing the job incumbent and his supervisor or observing the job. This will be arranged by the Company chairman at the convenience of the Joint Committee and the section of the operation or office concerned. For the purpose of joint interviews, the job incumbents shall be mutually agreeable to the Company and the Union.
2.	Standards
(a) Job Evaluation Descriptions
Job Evaluation Descriptions are for the purpose cf assigning a job group level to a job. They shall be prepared as factually, concisely and unambiguously as possible.
Job Evaluation Descriptions shall outline the basic responsibilities of the job and shall not be intended to be, or replace position manuals or guides, and as such are not to be construed as an “all inclusive” document of the job.
111
(b)	The evaluation of all jobs will be done in accordance with the Company's existing benchmark system for job evaluation.
(c)	Additions and deletions to benchmarks in the existing system shall be mutually agreed to by the Joint Job Evaluation Committee.
(d)	Requests for evaluation must be in writing to either the Company Chairman or the Union Chairman, and may be made by management, the employee, the Union, or either of the Committee Chairmen.
The two chairmen will keep each other informed of any requests for evaluation.
Before a job is eligible for evaluation, one of the following conditions must apply:
(i)	a new job has been created,
(ii)	a significant change has occurred in an existing job.
3. Procedures for Job Evaluation (a) New Jobs
When a new job is created, the Supervisor shall submit a Job Evaluation Description to the Company Committee Chairman.
The Company Committee Chairman will review the Job Evaluation Description and assign a temporary job group.
The new Job Evaluation Description and the temporary assigned job group will be reviewed immediately with the Union Committee Chairman.
The Joint Committee Chairmenwill set an evaluation date which shall not exceed 120 calendar days from the day the job is occupied.
112
Three (3) weeks prior to the evaluation date, the Job Evaluation Description shall be reviewed by the supervisor and the employee to finalize and sign. The Joint Committee Chairmen will be available to assist if required.
Finalized copies of the Job Evaluation Description shall be forwarded to the Company Committee Chairman for distribution to the Union Committee Chairman two weeks prior to the evaluation date.
(b)	Changes to an Existing Job
When an existing job is changed, the supervisor shall review the changed Job Evaluation Description with the Company Committee Chairman.
The Company Committee Chairman will assign a temporary job group, if necessary. The changed Job Evaluation Description and the temporary assigned job group will be reviewed immediately with the Union Committee Chairman.
The Joint Committee Chairmen will set an evaluation date, if necessary, which shall not exceed 120 calendar days from the day the change is effected.
Three (3) weeks prior to the evaluation date the changed Job Evaluation Description shall be reviewed by the supervisor and the employee to finalize and sign. The Joint Committee Chairmen will be available to assist if required.
Finalized copies of the changed Job Evaluation Description shall be forwarded to the Company Committee Chairman for distribution to the Union Committee Chairman for joint evaluation, if necessary.
(c)	On a continuing basis,the Company will ensure that each Job Evaluation Description is reviewed at least once every four years.
113
(d)	All jobs reviewed in joint session will be classed as completed, incompleted, or disputed jobs. The following definitions will be used to determine the classifications:
(i)	Completed Jobs:
Jobs which have been evaluated to the satisfaction of the two committee chairmen.
(ii)	Incompleted Jobs:
Jobs for which the Job Evaluation Descriptions are found to be incomplete or in error. Incomplete jobs will be reviewed again in joint sessions within thirty (30)calendar days. This time limit may be extended by mutual consent of the two chairmen.
(Iii) Disputed Jobs:
Jobs which have been reviewed in joint session but have not been ranked due to disagreement.
In the case of disputed jobs, the Company ranking will be used to establish the job groups. The Union will then have fifteen (15) working days to invoke the Section 112 procedure of the B.C. Labour Code. The parties agree that the decision handed down under this procedure will be binding on both the Company and the Union.
(iv) Inthe event of wrong job group applications due to clerical error, the error will be corrected immediately and the proper salary paid. Rate protection will not apply toj ob incumbents in case the proper salary is lower than the former wrong salary. The Union Committee Chairman will be notified immediately of the wrong job situation. and the action taken.
(V) The Company will keep the Union Chairman advised of all jobs which cease to be active.
114
(vi)	The Joint Job Evaluation Committee will endeavor to obtain consensus on all jobs referred to it.
Committee decisions will be binding to both the Company and the Union.
(vii)	When the Joint Committee has established the , permanent job group for the job, the Company
will process the necessary authorizations.
- (viii)When joint evaluation of an existing job results in a higher job group, the rate will be retroactive to the date of request as per 2(d), unless it is mutually agreed that some other date should apply. When the job group is l owered, the applicable rate protection provision of red or blue circling will apply.
(ix)	“Red Circling”
When a job group of a job is lowered due to evaluation, the applicable rate protection provision of “red circling” shall apply.
“Red circled” employees shall receive 80% of the wage increase applicable to the standard for the job on which they are the incumbent until such time as the “red circle” differential disappears. “Red circled” employees who are fifty-five years of age or over or who have had twenty years of service or over on the date that any increase becomes effective shall receive the full amount of the standard increase.
(x)	“Blue Circling”
“Blue circling” shall be applied to the current incumbents of jobs affected by job evaluation changes under the following circumstances:
115
1.	The job group of a job is reduced as a result of the implementation of a new job evaluation plan.
2.	The job group of a job is reduced because of changes to an existing job evaluation plan.
3.	The salary cf an employee is higher than the highest salary of a job group due to transition from a system providing for separately rated jobs with performance premiums above the standard salary to a system where the maximum salary levels are attained on a time basis.
Employees who are “blue circled” shall receive the full salary increase applicable to the newjob group in which the job falls.
“Blue circle” protection shall cease when an employee is promoted to a new job, the rate of which is equal to or higher than his salary at the time of promotion.
116
1987 SHIFT CALENDAR
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH
SMTWTFS SMTWTFS SMTWTFS
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
S M T W T F S S M T W TFS SMTWTFS
			1 FH	2 IF	3 IF	4 Gl						1 HG	2 FH		1 HG	2 HG	3 FH	4 FH	5 IF	6 IF
5 Gl	6 HG	7 HG	8 FH	9 FH	10 IF	11 IF	3 FH	4 IF	5 IF	6 Gl	7 Gl	8 HG	9 HG	7 Gl	8 Gl	9 HG	10 HG	11 FH	12 FH	13 IF
12 Gl	13 Gl	14 HG	15 HG	16 FH	17 FH	18 IF	10 FH	11 FH	12 IF	13 IF	14 Gl	15 Gl	16 HG	14 IF	15 Gl	16 Gl	17 HG	18 HG	19 FH	20 FH
19 IF	20 Gl	21 Gl	22 HG	23 HG	24 FH	25 FH	17 HG	16 FH	19 FH	20 IF	21 IF	22 Gl	23 Gl	21 IF	22 IF	23 Gl	24 Gl	25 HG	26 HG	27 FH
26 IF	27 IF	28 Gl	29 Gl	30 HG			24 HG	25 HG	26 FH	27 FH	28 IF	29 IF	30 Gl	28 FH	29 IF	30 IF				
							31 Gl							SEPTEMBER SMTWTFS						
JULY S M T W T F S							AUGUST S M T W T F S													
			1 Gl	2 <?l	3 HG	4 HG							1 IF			1 IF	2 IF	3 Gl	4 Gl	5 HG
5 FH	6 FH	7 IF	8 IF	9 Gl	10 Gl	11 HG	2 Gl	3 Gl	4 HG	5 HG	6 FH	7 FH	8 IF	6 HG	7 FH	8 FH	9 IF	10 IF	11 Gl	12 Gl
12 HG	13 FH	14 FH	15 IF	16 IF	17 Gl	18 Gl	9 IF	10 Gl	11 Gl	12 HG	13 HG	14 FH	15 FH	13 HG	14 HG	15 FH	16 FH	17 IF	18 IF	19 Gl
19 HG	20 HG	21 FH	22 FH	23 IF	24 IF	25 Gl	16 IF	17 IF	18 Gl	19 Gl	20 HG	21 HG	22 FH	20 Gl	21 HG	22 HG	23 FH	24 FH	25 IF	26 IF
26 Gl	27 HG	28 HG	29 FH	30 FH	31 IF		23 FH	24 IF	25 IF	26 Gl	27 Gl	28 HG	29 HG	27 Gl	28 Gl	29 HG	30 HG			
OCTOBER SMTWTFS							30 FH	31 FH						DECEMBER SMTWTFS						
							NOVEMBER SMTWTFS													
				1 FH	2 FH	3 IF	1 HG	2 FH	3 FH	4 IF	5 IF	6 Gl	7 Gl			1 Gl	2 HG	3 HG	4 FH	5 FH
4 IF	5 Gl	5 Gl	7 HG	8 HG	9 FH	10 m.	8 HG	9 HG	10 FH	11 FH	12 |F	13 IF	14 Gl	6 IF	7 IF	8 Gl	9 Gl	10 HG	11 HG	12 FH
11 IF	12 IF	13 Gl	14 Gl	15 HG	16 HG	17 FH	15 Gl	16 HG	17 HG	18 FH	19 FH	20 IF	21 IF	13 FH	14 IF	15 IF	16 Gl	17 Gl	18 HG	19 HG
18 FH	19 IF	20 IF	21 Gl	22 Gl	23 HG	24 HG	22 Gl	23 Gl	24 HG	25 HG	26 FH	27 FH	28 IF	20 FH	21 FH	22 IF	23 IF	24 Gl	25 Gl	26 HG
25 FH	26 FH	27 IF	28 IF	29 Gl	30 Gl	31 HG	29 IF	30 Gl						27 HG	28 FH	29 FH	30 IF	31 IF		
4-0N, 4-OFF SCHEDULE	SHIFT ORDER 33:2 Days, 2 Nights, 4 Days Off
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS: Shown As	SHIFTS ARE MARKED: I, G, H, I
1988 SHIFT CALENDAR
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH
SMTWTFS SMTWTFS SMTWTFS
					1 Gl	2 Gl			1 IF	2 Gl	3 Gl	4 HG	5 HG	6 FH				1 FH	2 FH	3 IF	4 IF	5 Gl
3	4	5	6	7	8	9		7	8	9	10	11	12	13		6	7	8	9	10	11	12
HG	HG	FH	FH	IF	IF	Gl		FH	IF	IF	Gl	Gl	HG	HG		Gl	HG	HG	FH	FH	IF	IF
10	11	12	13	14	15	16		14	15	16	17	18	19	20		13	14	15	16	17	18	19
Gl	HG	HG	FM	FN	IF	IF		FH	FH	IF	IF	Gl	Gl	HG		Gl	Gl	HG	HG	FH	FH	IF
17	18	19	20	21	22	23		21	22	23	24	25	26	27		20	21	22	23	24	25	26
Gl	Gl	HG	HG	FH	FH	IF		HG	FH	FH	IF	IF	Gl	Gl		IF	Gl	Gl	HG	HG	FH	FH
24	25	26	27	28	29	30		26	29							27	28	29	30	31		
IF	Gl	Gl	HG	HG	FH	FH		HG	HG							IF	IF	Gl	Gl	HG		
31 IF																						
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
S M T W T F S SMTWTFS SMTWTFS
					1 HG	2 FH		1 Gl	2 HG	3 HG	4 FH	5 FH	6 IF	7 IF					1 Gl	2 Gl	3 HG	4 HG
3	4	5	6	7	8	9		8	9	10	11	12	13	14		5	6	7	8	9	10	11
FH	IF	IF	Gl	Gl	HG	HG		Gl	Gl	HG	HG	FH	FH	IF		FH	FH	IF	IF	Gl	Gl	HG
10	11	12	13	14	15	16		15	16	17	16	19	20	21		12	13	14	15	16	17	18
FH	FH	IF	IF	Gl	Gl	HG		IF	Gl	Gl	HG	HG	FH	FH		HG	FH	FH	IF	IF	Gl	Gl
17	18	19	20	21	22	23		22	23	24	25	26	27	28		19	20	21	22	23	24	25
HG	FH	FH	IF	IF	Gl	Gl		IF	IF	Gl	Gl	HG	HG	FH		HG	HG	FH	FH	IF	IF	Gl
24	25	26	27	28	29	30		29	30	31						26	27	28	39	30		
HG	HG	FH	FH	IF	IF	Gl		FH	IF	IF						Gl	HG	HG	FH	FH		
JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER
OCTOBER	NOVEMBER	DECEMBER
S M T W T F S SMTWTFS S M T W T F S
						1 HG				1 Gl	2 HG	3 HG	4 FH	5 FH						1 IF	2 Gl	3 Gl
2	3	4	5	6	7	8		6	7	8	9	10	11	12		4	5	6	7	8	9	10
HG	FH	FH	IF	IF	Gl	Gl		IF	IF	Gl	Gl	HG	HG	FH		HG	HG	FH	FH	IF	IF	Gl
9	10	11	12	13	14	15		13	14	15	16	17	18	19		11	12	13	14	15	16	17
HG	hg	FH	FH	IF	IF	fil		FH	IF	IF	Gl	pi	Hp	HG		Gl	HG	HG	FH	FH	IF	IF
16	17	18	19	20	21	22		20	‘21	22	23	24	25	26		18	19	20	21	22	23	24
Gl	HG	HG	FH	FH	IF-	IF		FH	FH	IF	IF	Gl	Gl	HG		Gl	Gl	HG	HG	PH	FH	IF
23	24	25	26	27	28	29		77	28	29	30					25	26	27	28	29	30	31
Gl	Gl	HG	HG	FH	FH	IF		HG	FH	FH	IF					IF	Gl	Gl	HG	HG	FH	FH
30	31												,									
IF	gi																					
CON, 4-OFF SCHEDULE	SHIFT ORDER IS:2 Days, 2 Nights, 4 Days Off
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS: Shown As	SHIFTS ARE MARKED: F, G, H, I
1989 SHIFT CALENDAR
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH
s	M	T	W		F	s		s	M	7	w	T		S		s	M	T	w	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	ft	6	7					1	2	3	4					1	2	ft	4
IF	IF	Ql	9'	HA	HQ	FH					FH	IF	|F	Ql					Ql	HQ	HQ	FH
ft				12	13	14		8	6	7	A	9	10	11		6	6	7	8	6	10	11
FH	IF	IF	Ql	Al	HQ	HQ		Ql	HQ	HQ	FH	FH	IF	IF		FH	IF	IF	Ql	Ql	HQ	HQ
					26	21		12	13	14	16	16	17	16		12	13	14	16	16	17	16
FH	FH	IF		a|	at	HQ		Ql	Ql	HQ	HQ	FH	FH	|F		FH	FH	IF	IF	Ul	Ql	HQ
					27	26		10	20	21	22	23	24	96		10	20	2i	22	2ft	24	26
hfl	FH	FH	if	If	ffl!	Ql		IF	Q>	Ql	HQ	HQ	£H	FH		HQ	FH	FH	IF	IF	Ql	Ql
								26	27	2ft						28	27	28	2ft	30	31	
H<?	HQ							'F	IF	QL						HQ.	HG	FH	FH	IF	IF	
		APRIL								HAY								JUNE				
8	M	T	w	T	r	6		8	N	T	w	T	F	<1	s		M	T	W	T	F	S
						1			1	2	3	4	S	ft						1	2	3
						ft!			IF	IF	fl|	Qt	HQ	HQ						FH	IF	IF
					7	6		7	ft	»	10	11	12	13		4	6	6	7	6	9	10
At	HC	HQ	FH	TH	ip	IF		PH	FH	IF	|f	Q|	Ql	HQ		Ol	Ql	HQ	HQ	FH	FH	IF
		11	12	13	u	1ft		14	18	1ft	17	1ft	10	20		11	12	13	14	16	16	17
						IF		HQ		FH	|F	JL		Ql		IF	III	Ql	HQ	HQ	FH	FH
16	1T	18	18	20	21	22		21	22	23	24	26	26	27		18	16	20	21	22	23	24
IF	qi	(1|	HQ	HQ	FH	FH		HQ	HQ	FH	m	IF	|f	m		II*	IF	AL	HI	HQ	HQ	FH
23	24	26	26	27	26	20		26	29	30	31					28	26	27	26	2ft	30	
IF	IF	G|	qi	HQ	HQ	FH		QL	HQ	HQ	FH					m	IF	IF	Ql	Ql		
30 FH																						
JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER
3	M	T	W	T	F	6	s	M	T	w	T	F	8	S	M		W	T	F	S
						1			1	2	3	4	5						1	2
						HA			HQ	HQ	FH	PH	JL						Ql	HA
	3	4	5	6	7	6	«	7	ft	9	10	11	12	a	4	5	6	7	ft	6
FH	FH	IF	|f	Ql	Qt	HQ	JL	Ql	Ql	HQ	HQ	EEL	m	HA	EL	FH	JL	JL	Ql	
					14	15	19	14	18	16	17	1ft	19	10	11	12	ift	14	18	16
	FH	FH	IF		Ql	Ql	JL	IF	9I	Ql	HQ	US.	FH	UA	UA	lEL	EH.	IF	IF	Ql
		18			21	22	9ft	91	29	26	24	25	28	17	18	19	98	21	29	93
			FH				FH	IF	IP	Q|	G|	HA	UA	AL	HO	HA.	FH	FH		
					26	29	27	28	26	30	31			24	26	26	27	26	2ft	80
		HQ	FH	FH	IF	JL	FH	FH	IF	IF	fit			fit		HA.	HA	iH	iH	
30 Ql	31 Ql														DECEMBER					
														S	M	T	W	T		
		jCTOBEr						NOVcflflBcn											1	2
ft	M	T	W	T		s	S	N	T	W	T		a						EL	Ffl
										i	2	3	4	3	4	6	6	7	6	ft
					FH	FH				IP	IP	Ql	AL	|F	IF	Ql	Ql	HA	HQ	FH
					13	14	6	6	7	A	0	10	11	10	11	12	13	14	is	16
			Ql	HQ	HQ	FH	M	HQ	PH	FH	IF	JL	AL	EL	IF	JL	Ql	Ql	HQ	HQ
		17	16	18	26	21	12	16	H	1ft	16	17	18	17	18	16	20	21	22	23
					HQ	HQ	Ql	HQ	HQ	FH	FH	IF	If	FH	FH	IF	IF	AL	AL	HQ
22	23	24	25	26	27	26	19	20	21	22	23	24	26	24	26	26	27	28	26	30
			IF	Q|	Ql	HQ	JSL	Of	HQ	HQ	FH	FH	|F	Hq	FH	PH				
	30	31					26	27	S3	26	30			31						
HQ	FH	FH					IF	AL	AL	US	HQ			HQ						
4'0N, 4-OFF SCHEDULE	SHIFT ORDER 18:2 Days, 2 Nlglttft, 4 Days Oil
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS: Shown ha	SHIFTS ARE MARKED: l,Q, H, I