AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD. (BALMER OPERATIONS) SPARWOOD, B.C.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
January 1,1989 - December 31, 1991
00195 (03)
FIVE POINTS OF SAFETY
1.	Check entrance to your work place.
2.	Is your working place and equipment in good order.
3.	Are you working properly?
4.	Do some act of safety?
5.	Can, and will, men continue to work properly?
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article
1	Purpose of Agreement ...............
2	Scope of Agreement..................
3	Management Rights ..................
4	Union Security and Check-Off ......
5	Adjustment of Grievances...........
6	Employees to Care for Mine ........
7	Pensions ..........................
8	Seniority .........................
9	Cessation of Work...................
10	Reporting Pay and Minimum Daily Pay
11	Holidays .........................
12	Vacations ........................
13	Rates of Pay .....................
14	Hours of Work and Overtime .......
15	Safety ...........................
16	Employee Conditions ..............
17	Insurance Benefits ...............
18	Leave of Absence..................
19	Job Postings .....................
20	Training .........................
21	Saving Clause.....................
22	Absenteeism ......................
23	Christmas Bonus...................
24	Severance Pay ....................
25	Termination Benefit...............
26	Duration of Agreement ............
Appendix “A” Wage Scale &Job Groups
Appendix "B" Pension Plan .............
Appendix "C" Job Vacancy Posting ......
Page
1
1
11
11
14
17
17
18 23 23 25 28 34 37 40 44 51
54
55 59
65
66 67 67 ,69
ijp
72
76
101
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article
Letter of Agreement
Re:	Overtime	.
Letter of Agreement
Re:	Oiler Trainee .
Letter of Agreement
Re: Vacation Entitlement Letter of Agreement
Re: Statutory Holiday/Vacation Letter of Agreement
Re:	Apprenticeship	.
Letter of Agreement
Re: Chainman Training Program Letter of Agreement
Re: Direct Bank Deposit System Letter of Agreement
Re: Ace Explosives Ltd. Letter of Agreement
Re: Marshalling Points, Shift Schedules, and Seniority . Letter of Agreement
Re:	Foremen...................
Letter of Agreement
Re: Printing copies of Collective Agreement .	.
Letter of Agreement
Re: Pertaining to Equalization of OfJ Letter of Agreement
Re: O/T Worked out of Classification Letter of Agreement
Re: Hiring Practise Letter of Agreement
Re: Hydraulic Excavator (Shovel) Appendix "D" -12 Hour Shift Schedule
Page
105
107
109
111
113
115
117
120
122
124
125
126
127
128 129
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
It is the intent of the parties and the purpose of this Agreement to preserve and continue the harmonious relations existing between the parties; to ensure peaceful adjustment and settlement of grievances, claims, disputes and differences which may arise between Employer and its employees represented by the Union; to prevent stoppages and interruptions of work, strikes and lockouts; and to establish wages, hours and working conditions which shall prevail during the term hereof for the employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 2
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
2.01	This Agreement covers all hourly-rated produc-
tion and maintenance employees of the Employer hired for its mining operations in the Michel-Natal-Elk Prairie, British Columbia area.
2.02	For greater certainty, the following classifications are excluded from this bargaining unit and from the scope of this agreement.
1.	Off ice staff (OTEU, Local 378)
2.	Surveyors (OTEU, Local 378)
3.	Assayers (OTEU, Local 378)
4.	Unit Foreman (Firebosses)
5.	Janitorial services presently contracted out at Reclamation, Main Office, Security, Training and the Michel Office.
6.	Watchmen and Security Staff
7.	Supervisory employees, who shall include
employees with the authority to hire, discharge, promote, discipline or otherwise effect changes in the status of employees or who may effectively recommend a change in status or disciplinary action (Foreman and above).
2.03	This Agreement shall also apply to any employees of contractors, subcontractors, assignees or transferees of work performed by the
^	employees of Employer as it pertains to the cer-
tification granted for the Union. Work performed |	by the employees of the Employer will not be
sublet except to contractors, subcontractors, assignees or transferees who have a collective agreement with Local 7292 U.M.W.A. covering their bargaining unit employees on the Employer's property.
2.04	The Scope of the Agreement is not intended as
a wedge to displace employees of Employer but rather, where justification to subcontract exists, to require subcontractors to sign and abide by the terms and conditions of a Collective Agreement signed with Local 7292 U.M.W.A.
2.05	In the application of sections 2.03 and 2.04 the
parties agree to follow the procedures set out in Letter of Understanding “A"which is attached and forms part of this Agreement.
2
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING “A”
This Letter of Understanding sets out the policies and procedures agreed to be applicable to Sections 2.03 and 2.04 of the Collective Agreement.
1.	Except as specified in point 3. of this Letter of Understanding, the Union will be notified by the Employer of all contracts or subcontracts to be let by the Employer. The employer will also advise the Union of the reasons for the contract or subcontract.
2.	Except as specified in this Letter of Understanding, in point 3. no work within the scope of this Agreement can be contracted or subcontracted out without the Union's permission. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed by the Union.
The following are the types of factors the parties agree are relevant to a consideration of “reasonableness”. This is not an exhaustive list.
(1)	Availability of equipment to perform the work;
(2)	availability of employees with present skills to perform the work;
(3)	availability of facilities for performing the work;
(4)	the requirement for undue or inequitable distribution of overtime beyond the usual practice;
(5)	surges and overloads of work.
3
3.	It is understood and agreed that Clauses 1 and 2 of this Letter of Understanding do not apply to the following items or functions described below, and that the Employer may contract out these items or functions without seeking or obtaining the Union's permission:
I.	MAINTENANCE
-	All warranty work provided that the warranty is for a normal period and the Company will verify such warranty if requested by the Union.
The work is restricted to that which is required to repair the failed component. Westar employees remove and install the components where such action will not void the warranty as per past prac-tice.With respect to new Caterpillar equipment, the warranty is only for the first six (6) months the new equipment is on the Company property.
Engine Rebuilds:
-	VT 1710 - Company is phasing these engines out. EMD
Cummins K -during 1980 M100 - M200 Planetaries DC. Motors & Controls
- except wheel motors will be repaired by Westar employees with the exceptions of armature rewind, baking or dipping and total wheel motor failures.
Relays
Undercutting and Balancing Armatures Miscellaneous D.C. Equipment
Gear Boxes - Elkview
-	Michel
-	Breaker Station
during 1980 Only - Note Effective Jan. 1,1981 Gear Boxes 250 H.P. and above.
4
Pumps - Elkview during 1980 Only - Note - Michel Effective Jan. 1, 1980 all multi stage pumps as per past practice.
Injectors
Radiators
Aftercoolers
Oil Coolers
Heater Cores
Brake Shoes (Bonded)
Hoist Drums (Shovel)
Deck Bushings and Stabilizers Governors (EMD - Cummins)
Swing Frames and Cat Tracks Hydraulic Cylinders - Chroming and Testing Front Suspensions and Spindles Clutch Plates Testing Crane Booms Camshaft Grinding Crankshaft Grinding Power Packs (EMD) during 1980 Boilers - Installations and special repairs of boilers that cannot be done by Westar Mining Ltd. employees.
Air Filters
Conveyor Vulcanized splices as per present Turbos (EMD)
Rewinding &field coils Pressure Vessel Welding Magnafluxing (Magnafluxing 1980, as per past practice 1981 field only)
Ultrasonic Testing Seats & Seat Covers - Cushions Drill Steel Rebuild/Repair Transmission Repair FLP
5
Horizontal/Line Boring
Vehicle Body work/Painting - major repairs only Motor Repair (FLP)
Light Duty Servicing overload only Transformer Repair
Torque Converters - overload beyond capacity of present facility.
Engine Head Repair - as past practice Cat Rollers
Boom Pendant Sockets Respirator Maint.
Axle Boxes
Magna Torques as per past practice Water Meter Repair
Diesel Pump Repair as per past practice Brake Drums (Grinding - Seating)
Jaws of Life Maintenance Saddle Block Line Bores Circuit Breakers
Audio/Visual Equipment Maintenance Traction Motor Frames - Haulage trucks only as per past practice.
Water Purifiers
Gas Pump Repair
Alternator Repair (heavy duty)
Starter Repair (heavy duty)
Vacuum Pump Maintenance Elkview & Michel -Major Maintenance only as per past practice. Fiberglassing
Major Refractory Elkview Drier only Wheel Rims
Truck cabs &doors - Major repair only,
Westar Mining Ltd.
employees do all installation and removal.
Heat Treating
6
Electronic Diagnostics
Major off site cat repair - Redamation/Exploration as per past practice Snubber Arms
Compressor Repair, other than reciprocal Shock subs repair drills only Interpoles
Stress relieving as per past practice Exciters as per past practice Specialty/Grinding i.e. motor block Snubbers
Transmissions RT910 - for Kenworth (one type of truck)
Rear Differentials as per past practice. Carburetors as per past practice Air cooled engines - 4 cylinder Wisconsin as per past practice
Machining Tires and trunions - breaker station Hydraulic Pumps ) Overload beyond capacity of Hydraulic Valves ) present facility Synchronous Condensor as per past practice Repair FLP Engines - Major rebuild only Con Rods - Magnaflux Alignment Check Shipper Shafts Head Pulley lagging
Pressing Major Shafts - installing/rernoving bearings etc. as per past practice Sprockets - Crawler equipment Major Mast Rebuild drills as per past practice Rotary Gear Case - Drills Track Slides - Drills Point Sheaves - Shovel Brake Spiders Gantry Equalizers - Shovel Centre Pin and Nuts - Shovel
Electric Motor Couplings - as per past practice
Hoist Anchors - Haulage Truck
Water Pump - Cooling systems exchange
Specialized small tool repair
Dart Loaders - Present loaders only.
High speed balancing on Elect/Mech. Equipment
II. PRODUCTION
Crane Rental with operator - over 140 ton Dump Supervisors Rail Transportation - Elkview Explosive Mixing & Delivery - Ace Explosives, Harmer
U/G Coal Haul - Sowchuk Trucking Oxidized Coal Haul - Sowchuk Trucking, from Harmer Screening Plant to Elkview only.
Coarse Refuse Haul - emergency, break
down, Elkview
Magnetite unloading
Stockpiling, dean coal, Elkview, past
practice
Coal Haulage from other than present operations, as Sowchuk has performed in the past.
III NEW CONSTRUCTION
Major projects, defined as the complete building of the new Panel 6 dry, the new Westar Mining Ltd. main office, new warehouse, or such similar major projects may be contracted out if the Company so desires.
If contracted out, all work must be done by employees who belong to other recognized
8
Unions or by U.M.W.A. members. Where such employees are members of other
recognized Unions, they shall pay monthly union dues to the U.M.W.A., Local 7292. Should there be any dispute as to whether a project may be contracted out under this clause, then the parties agree to proceed forthwith to arbitration. The arbitrator is to determine the “reasonableness” as herein defined of the Union in withholding consent to contract out. Should the parties fail to agree to an arbitrator within forty-eight (48) hours, then either party will apply to the Minister of Labour to appoint an arbitrator. Both parties will use their best efforts to expedite the arbitration. Both parties will request the arbitrator to make an “on the spot” decision. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final.
IV.	ENVIRONMENTAL
Helicopter Seeding Helicopter Fertilizing
Tree falling and Slashing - as per past practice, except that the Company recognized that the Reclamation does a lot of this work and that this practice will continue, Heavy Earth Moving (Dykes, Lagoons and associated roads)
V.	OTHER
-	Transportation as per past practice
-	Snow Removal as presently being per
formed at Harmer blast areas Warehouse yards - Main off ice - Panel 6.
-	House coal haul
-	Scrap removal
9
-	Garbage removal by the municipality at the Main office, Elkview Chalet, Prep. Plant, Main Gate and as per past practice.
-	All Communications/Data Processing - in
stallation and maintenance
-	Water Softeners & Purifiers
-	Repairs of Scientific Equipment
-	Tires (Major Repairs and Sections)
-	Oil Analysis
-	Exploration Drilling
-	Underground toilet and septic tank service
-	Utilities installation Calgary Power
and maintenance as	B.C. Hydro
per past practice	B.C. Tel
Columbia Natural Gas, Municipality
-	Sprinkler Installation and Maintenance -
Fire Protection
-	Specialty Painting
-	Masonry except By Products, Michel
Boilers and Elkview Drier
-	Gas Pipeline insulation
-	Demolition eg. Michel Tipple
-	Roof repair - new roof, hot seal or total roof
repair as per past practice
-	Laundry Service
4.	It is understood and agreed that this Letter of Understanding is intended to deal only with work which falls within the scope of this Collective Agreement. If such work is done on Westar Mining Ltd. property those persons performing that work must belong to the U.M.W.A. except for those persons per-
10
forming work identified in 3, (III) of this letter “New Construction”.
This Letter of Understanding may be amended at any time by mutual agreement of the parties.
ARTICLE 3
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union recognizes the sole and exclusive
right of the Employer to operate and manage its business in all respects as it sees fit, including the right to hire, discipline or discharge for just and sufficient cause, and to make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, except that this right shall not supersede any other provision of this Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 4
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
4.01	The Employer recognizes the Union as the ex-
clusive bargaining agent for all employees as defined in Article 2.01 of this Agreement.	i
' 7
4.02	All employees covered by this Agreement shall 1 become members of the Union and shall remain members of the Union as a condition of employment.
4.03	The Employer will honor written assignments of
11
wages for Union dues, assessments and fines and shall remit such dues, assessments and fines to the Union monthly, together with information as to the persons from whose pay such deductions have been made. This obligation is subject to the Labour Code of B.C. All such deductions shall be remitted to the Union by the 15th day of the month following the month in which such deductions were made.
4.04	The Union shall indemnify the Employer and hold it harmless against any and all suits, claims, demands and liabilities that shall arise out of or by reason of any action taken or not taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with any provision of this Article 4.
4.05	The Employer will arrange for new employees to sign deduction assignment forms upon employment with the Company and will forward the executed documents to the Union.
4.06	The Employer will grant leave of absence without pay to employees who are:
(a)	Appointed or elected to Union office except that not more than six (6) employees at any one time will be granted such leave;
(b)	appointed or elected as representatives to attend Union meetings, conventions, or Union business -except that not more than twenty-five (25) employees at any one time will be granted such leave and not more than three (3) employees from the same job classification;
12
i (c) elected or appointed to Town Council, Hospital or School Boards;
(d) one (1) weeks notice for such leave of absence will be given to the employer except that the Company will not unreasonably withhold permission for such leave with less than one (1) weeks notice provided that the Union was not aware of the required leave one (1) week in advance.
4.07 Employees who are elected or appointed to full- / time Union office within the U.M.W.A. shall be ^ granted a leave of absence without pay on request as provided in 4.06 (a) above. Employees on such leave shall continue to accrue seniority and service with the Employer. Such employees may make arrangements to continue
to participate in the Employer Welfare and Insurance plans of this Agreement provided that prior arrangements are made by such employee or the Union to bear the full cost of premiums and/or contributions for such plans.
4.08	Employees granted a leave of absence under Article 4.06 (a) must return to work within two (2) months after the expiration of such Union appointment.
4.09	(a)When hired, all employees shall report to the
Union office before commencing work (b)The Employer shall issue each new employee one (1) copy of the Collective Agreement.
13
ARTICLE 5
ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
5.01	Purpose
It is the intent and purpose of this Artide 5 which shall be available both to the Union and the Employer to provide for the presentation and equitable adjustment of grievances. Should any differences arise between the Employer and the Union as to the meaning or application of the provisions of this Agreement or as to any questions relating to the wages, hours of work or other conditions of employment of any employee, the same shall be disposed of in accordance with the provision of this Article 5.
5.02	Grievance Committee
The Grievance Committee shall consist of not more than twenty (20) employees, duly elected, from the mine and/or plant. In addition, the local Union officers may act on the Committee. The Union must advise the Employer, in writing, which employees are selected for the Grievance Committee. Until such notice is received by the Company such employee will not be recognized as a grievance committeeman.
5.03	Duties
The duties of the grievance committeeman shall be confined to the purpose as set forth in 5.01 above, and he shall be allowed to process a grievance during shift if the grievor makes the request to his foreman. The foreman shall arrange the meeting during the shift.
14
5.04	Step 1
Within five (5) working days of the alleged grievance, the employee, who may be accompanied by his steward if he so desires, may present the grievance either verbally or in writing to his foreman. Failing settlement to the employee’s satisfaction within five (5) days, the employee may proceed to Step 2. In discharge cases, Step 1 will be by-passed and Step 2 will take precedence.
5.05	Step 2
Within five (5) working days from the time settlement could have been made in the previous step, the appeal shall be reduced in writing, dated, stating what contractual provision has been violated and signed by the employee, grievance committeeman or Local Union officer and submitted to Industrial Relations and the department supervisor who handled Step 1. A meeting shall be arranged within ten (10) working days of receipt of notice of appeal to hear the appeal and determine a just disposition. The meeting shall consist of representatives of the Union, and the Company, and the employee. Either party may produce any persons familiar with the facts involved to aid in a just solution. The Employer shall reply within ten (10) working days to the Union and the employee.
Failing a satisfactory settlement or reply at this stage, the matter must be referred to arbitration within a further fourteen (14) days, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.06 - Step 3 or the matter shall be deemed abandoned.
15
5.06	Step 3
An impartial umpire shall be appointed by mutual agreement of the parties hereto and whose decision shall be final. In the event mutual agreement cannot be reached on an umpire, it is agreed that either party may upon five (5) days written notice to the other party, request the Minister of Labour of the Province of British Columbia to appoint such umpire. The umpire shall have jurisdiction and authority only to interpret, apply or determine compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, and such local working conditions as may hereafter be in effect, insofar as shall be necessary to determination of grievances appealed to the umpire. The umpire shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to, detract from or alter the provisions of this Agreement. The expenses and salary extent of the services of the umpire shall be shared equally by the Employer and the Union.
5.07	Policy Grievance
In the event that any differences arise between the Union and the Employer as to the meaning and/or application of the provisions of this Agreement or as to any questions relating to the wages, hours of work or other conditions of employment of any employee, the Union or the Employer shall have the right to present a Policy grievance.
Policy grievances must be presented to the other party within five (5) working days of the alleged incident that initiated the difference. The
16
Employer and the Union shall meet within ten (10) days after the presentation of the Policy Grievance to try to resolve the dispute. If the parties fail to agree at this meeting, either party may submit the grievance to arbitration in accordance to section 5.06 above.
ARTICLE 6
EMPLOYEES TO CARE FOR MINE
6.01	In the case of either local, general or emergency suspension of mining either at the expiration of this Agreement or otherwise, the Employer and the Union will mutually agree to the employees that are necessary to preserve the Employer's property and such employees will not suspend work.
ARTICLE 7 PENSION
7.01	It is understood and agreed that the terms and
conditions of Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, U.M.W.A., Retirement and Benefit Plan as set out in the Trust Deed and/or. Appendix "B“ > and the various additions and amendments thereto, shall be a part of this Agreement.
7.02	The Company shall pay the employees' contribution to the Canada Pension Plan.
7.03	The Agreement on the Welfare & Retirement
Fund of District 18, United Mine Workers of
17
America, between the United Mine Workers of America, District 18 and the Mine Operators, is hereby incorporated into this Agreement.
ARTICLE 8
SENIORITY
cv.
8.0I Seniority shall be determined on the basis of length of continuous service with the Employer and shall commence twenty (20) shifts worked ' ' after the date of employment, but when commenced shall date from the date of employment. In the event of a force reduction during this period, the last man hired will be the first man laid off.
I
1	8.02 Continuous service of an employee shall be
broken by:
1)	A resignation or “quit”.
2)	Discharge.
3)	Retirement.
4)	A layoff for a period in excess of six (6)
months if the employee does not notify the Employer of his status at least once every six (6) months.
5)	Failure to report to work within ten (10) days from the date of a written notice to return to work after a lay off. Written notice will be in the form of a registered letter with return receipt requested, sent to the last address given by the employee to the Employer. It is the employee's responsibility to keep the Employer advised of his current address.
18
6)	Absence extending beyond an authorized vacation period or beyond a leave of absence granted by the Employer.
7)	Absence due to disability other than Workers' Compensation if the employee does not notify the Employer of his status at least once every six (6) months.
8)	A transfer to a position within the Company, which is exempt from coverage under this Agreement for a period in excess of four (4) months, provided however that on returning to a position within the unit through Article 19 such employee will be credited with such seniority as he had accrued at the time of such transfer.
8.03	1. In the event of layoff and/or force reduction, seniority shall be the determining factor in job classes I to XI-A inclusive except as stated In Note #1. In job classes XII to XVI, the senior employee with the ability to perform the job will be given the job.
Note #1. In the event of layoff and/or force reduction, the senior persons with the ability to perform the job will be given 50% of the jobs available In each of the classifications of grader, dozer or tlreman. The other 50% of the jobs available In each job classification of grader, dozer or fireman shall be awarded by seniority only. The total number of jobs available In any one job classification on the entire mining property, (all areas) shall be used to calculate the 50%. If there are only three (3) jobs available In any one job classification of grader, dozer or tlreman, two (2)
19
jobs shall be awarded on the basis of seniority with the ability to perform the job and one (1) job shall be awarded by seniority only. If there are five (5) jobs available In any one job classification of grader, dozer or tireman, three (3) jobs shall be awarded In each classification of grader, dozer or tireman, on the basis of seniority only.
If there are seven (7) jobs available in any one job classification four (4) shall be awarded on the basis of seniority only. The same principle shall apply to nine (9), eleven (11) etc. resulting In the majority of jobs in the classifications of grader, dozer or tireman being awarded on basis of seniority only.
2.	The procedure shall be as follows:
If there is a layoff or force reduction in one (1) or more areas the employee(s) with the least seniority in the classification^) affected will be removed out of the affected classification(s) in the affected area(s) and shall be given the following opportunities:
(a)	to move in any permanent vacancy available in their classification(s) in other areas of the Employer; or the affected employee may bump any employee with less seniority in his classification, in his or other areas; or
(b)	if there are no permanent vacancies or no employee(s) with less seniority in the affected employee(s)' classification in any other area(s), then the employee
20
./' I I
may bump any employee with less seniority in any other classification in any area as per 8.03 (1) above.
3.	Also, all employees bumped under the provisions shall have all the rights described in 8.03 (1) and (2) above.
8.04	Employees having permanent or temporary par- i ' tial disability shall be given preference over other workmen in the class of work they can reasonably perform. To exercise rights under
this paragraph a vacancy must exist on a job prior to the disabled workmen having preference of assignment.
8.05	If the Employer introduces any change in equip ment or material or any change in its work, undertaking of business, which directly results in the layoff or termination of employees as a direct result of the introduction of such equip ment or material, those employees subject to layoff or termination as a result of such introduction of equipment or material, may exercise the seniority rights available to them under this Article.
8.06	In the event that after the application of the < seniority provision, employees who choose termination as a direct result of the introduction of I such equipment or material, or any change in its
work, those employees will receive severance pay equivalent to one hundred (I00) hours at the rate of the last classification which each employee could have held after the application of seniority rights by employees affected.
21
8.07	It is understood and agreed that the terms of Article 8.05 and following this Article 8 relate to changes under the sole and exclusive control of the Employer and are not related to market conditions.
8.08	The following is the method of application of the provisions outlined in 8.05 and 8.06:
1.	Severance Pay: Those employees directly
displaced as a result of technological change as defined in 8.05 will have the option of:
(a)	taking a layoff without severance pay,
OR
(b)	terminating their employment with the Company and taking the severance pay,
OR
(c)	exercising seniority rights by bumping less senior employees providing such employee has the ability to perform the job he is bumping into.
2.	The employees referred to above will have
,	their rates red circled until:
(a)	the Collective Agreement rates for the new job performed are equal to or greater than the employee's red circled rates,
OR
(b)	such employee posts into another job, in which case the employee will receive the standard rate for the new job.
3.	Employees indirectly affected as a result of those employees in (a jabove bumping will not be eligible for severance pay or have
22
their rates red circled, except that those employees who after the application of all the seniority provisions of this Agreement would otherwise be laid off (i.e., no alternate job in the Company which they can perform or have seniority to bump into or otherwise is available to the employee) then such employees will have the option of:
(a)	electing severance pay
(b)	electing layoff without severance.
ARTICLE 9
CESSATION OF WORK
9.01	There shall be no strikes or lockouts by either
party, either collectively or individually during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 10
REPORTING PAY AND MINIMUM DAILY PAY
10.01	An employee who reports to work as scheduled without having been notified not to report and for whom no work is available, or who works less than four (4) hours, will be allowed four (4) hours pay at the rate of the job for which he was scheduled to report.
10.02	An employee who reports for work on his scheduled shift and who works in excess of four (4) hours shall be provided work to complete his eight (8) hour shift or be paid the full eight (8) hours in lieu thereof.
23
10.03	The provisions of this Article will not apply in the event of strikes or work stoppages in connection with labour disputes, or other causes beyond the control of the Employer which prevent the Employer from continuing its operations in whole or in part.
10.04	(a) Where an employee is called out to work
outside his regular work schedule, he will receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay at overtime rates,
EXCEPT THAT
(b) Where an employee is called out and reports for work prior to regular starting time and continues to work through his regular shift, he shall receive at appropriate overtime rates;
(i)	Pay for hours actually worked in advance of his regular starting time when twenty-four (24) hours notice has been given,
OR
(ii)	Four (4) hours pay or pay for actual hours worked in advance of his regular shift -whichever is greater when twenty-four (24) hours notice has not been given.
24
ARTICLE 11
HOLIDAYS
11 .01 The following days will be observed:
New Year's Day Good Friday May 1 st.
Victoria Day Dominion Day B.C. Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day *Employee's Birthday
(a)	In the event that the Provincial or Federal Government proclaims an additional paid holiday to be added to the Annual and General Holidays Act, such holidays will be added to this Article, provided such holiday is not listed in ll.Oi and further provided that such proclaimed paid holiday is not a substitute or a replacement for any present legislated holiday.
(b)	It is agreed that there shall be not more than a total of thirteen (13) statutory holidays observed in a calendar year.
. Employee’s Birthday - An employee may elect to take the birthday holiday on the actual day of the birth date or during the five (5) day period before or after the actual birth date.
11.02	Holidays shall be effective on the day of the week on which they fall however, should the Provincial or Federal Government proclaim a day in lieu of any of the holidays listed in ll.Oi the day proclaimed shall become the holiday for the
25
purpose of interpreting this Article unless otherwise mutually agreed.
11.03	An employee will receive holiday pay for any holiday not worked in 11 .01, provided he meets the following qualifications: He shall have worked all of his last scheduled shift prior to and all of his next scheduled shift following such holiday, unless an absence from one or both of such shifts is because of sickness of the employee (proof required) or because of death In the immediate family (spouse, mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son, daughter, brother or sister, grandfather or grandmother, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law) or because of similar good cause.
11.04	All employees shall be paid their regular daily pay plus overtime, where applicable as per Ar-tide 14 for holidays not worked. Regular daily pay shall include:
(a)	eight (8) hours at classified rate of pay
(b)	underground premium where applicable
(c)	hot change where applicable
(d)	shift differential where applicable
1	1 .05 Where a Statutory Holiday falls within an employee's scheduled vacation, the employee may pre-arrange:
EITHER
(a) An additional day off with pay to be taken immediately prior to or immediately following the employee's scheduled vacation,
OR
26
(b) elect to receive eight (8) hours pay in lieu thereof in addition to his regular vacation pay.
In electing either option (a) or (b) above, the employee must meet all the provisions of Article 11.
11.06	The Employer may request employees to work on statutory or paid holidays, however, such work shall be on a voluntary basis.
11.07	Any employee may be required to work holidays in the event of emergencies.
11.08	An employee will not be penalized, with respect to holiday pay for absences incurred on afternoon shift Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve.
11.09	An employee who works on a holiday shall be paid at appropriate overtime rates for such work in addition to the holiday pay described in Section 11.04, above.
11.1	0 Article 11.04 and 11.09 shall be interpreted and applied in accordance with the following chart.
CALCULATION OF PAYMENT FOR STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Not Worked	Worked 8 Hours
Monday Saturday
SOW	8X1-8 Hrs. 8X1,	8X1.5-20 Hrs.
SDW - Sat.6th sch- 8 X 1.5 - 12 Hrs. 8x1.5, 8 X 1.5 - 24 Hrs. eduted shift.
S W	8X1.5- 12 Hrs. BX1.5, 8X1,5- 24 Hrs,
Sunday Stat
SDW	8X 1.5 - 12 Hrs, 8X1.5, 8X1.5-24 Hrs.
SDO	8X2- 16 Hrs. 8X2,	8 X 2 - 32 Hrs.
NOTE: SDW - Scheduled Day Worked SDO - Scheduled Day Off
27
ARTICLE 12 VACATIONS
12.01	Eligibility
(a)	An employee with one (1) or more years of service is eligible for a vacation in any calendar year during the term of this Agreement if he has worked at least one thousand (1,000) hours in the preceding calendar year, and has worked in the calendar year for which the vacation is sought except that;
(i)	If an employee has worked more than five hundred (500) hours but less than one thousand (1000) hours in the preceding calendar year as a direct result of being on Workers' Compensation and has worked in the calendar year for which the vacation is sought then such employee will receive full vacation entitlement for that year.
(ii)	If an employee has worked less than five hundred (500) hours in the preceding calendar year as a direct result of being on Workers' Compensation and has worked in the calendar year for which the vacation is sought then such employee will have his vacation eligibility calculated as follows:
No. of hours worked X Full vacation entitlement 1,000	or two (2) weeks vacation
whichever is greater.
Such vacation time off and pay must be 28
scheduled and taken prior to December 31st. of that year subject only to 12.01(c).
Vacation paid to an employee will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of calculating the one thousand (1000) hours in the preceding year.
(b)	An employee completing his first twelve (12) months of continuous service on or after December 15th of any calendar year shall be allowed to take his vacation up to fifteen (15) days prior to his anniversary date if he has received earnings in at least one thousand (1,000) hours worked during the (twelve) 12 months following the date of his original employment.
(c)	An employee who has been unable to take his vacation due to a work incurred injury or sickness, prior to the end of the calendar year will receive his earned vacation pay entitlement on December 15th of that year.
(d)	Elk River Colliery service is applicable for vacation purposes providing there was no break in continuous service. The Company will continue to recognize the Vacation Pay year for such employees as April 1 to March 31.
29
\ ^ • r (l
^)
12.02	Vacation Entitlement (effective-tan.. 1., 1982)
(a) Years of Service 1
2-3 4-9 10-20 21 -29 30 +
Entitlement
2	wks, 12 days pay, or 4% of gross earnings whichever is greater
3	wks, 18 days pay, or 6% of gross earnings whichever is greater
4	wks, 24 days pay, or 8% of gross earnings whichever is greater
5	wks, 30 days pay, or 10% of gross earnings whichever is greater
6	wks, 36 days pay, or 12% of gross earnings whichever is greater 7wks, 42 days pay, or 14% of gross earnings whichever is greater
(b)	The employees are entitled to receive benefits in the calendar year in which their anniversaries fall.
12.03	A vacation week shall consist of seven (7) consecutive days.
12.04	Employees are entitled to receive the benefits in the calendar year in which their anniversaries fall. Each employee, upon completion of his first year of continuous service shall take his vacation in the calendar year of his first anniversary. Thereafter subject to the provisions of this Article 12 each employee shall have his vacation scheduled at any time during the calendar year regardless of his anniversary date.
30
12.05	Scheduling of Vacations
1.	The Employer shall have the right to close
down the mine for up to a four (4) week period for the purpose of giving the employees vacation, but the period at which time this would be done is subject to mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union.
2.	Vacations for eligible employees shall be
scheduled throughout the calendar year, but so far as possible will be granted at times most desired by employees; provided however, that the Employer has the final right to allotment of vacation periods in order to ensure orderly operations of the mine.
3.	The employee may elect to take vacations
in any number of periods of one (1) week or longer.
4.	Seven (7) day operation employees because of their work schedule may have complete shift rotations or weeks as time off, but their vacation pay shall be governed by Article 12.02
5.	Vacations may not be accumulated from one (1) calendar year to another.
6.	The minimum vacation to be scheduled and taken at one time is one (1) week.
7.	Employees will submit vacation requests to their respective foremen by no later than April 1 in each year and the Company will post the approved vacation schedules no later than April 30th of that year.
8.	Employees submitting late vacation requests (after April 1) will be placed on a
31
second vacation schedule and will be granted vacation on a first come first serve basis within that schedule.
9.	This Article 12.05 - (7 & 8) is not intended to prevent an employee from scheduling his vacation anytime during the calendar year including the period January 1 to April 30th.
10.	Once an employee's vacation has been approved it will not be changed unless by mutual agreement between the Company and the employee.
11.	An employee may elect to take vacations for two (2) successive years at the end of one (1) calendar year and at the beginning of the next calendar year, in one (1) continuous period.
12.06	Vacation Pay
1.	A day of vacation pay will be an employee’s regular daily pay, at the commencement date of hisvacation defined as:
(a)	eight (8) hours at classified rate of pay
(b)	underground premium where applicable
(c)	hot change where applicable
(d)	shift differential where applicable Vacation pay will be available to him prior to commencing the scheduled vacation.
2.	When the Employer elects to close down
the mine for the purpose of giving most employees a vacation, each employee with less than one (1) year of service will receive one (1) day’s pay for each month worked at the time of closure and will receive the remaining vacation pay to which he is en-
32
titled upon reaching his first anniversary date.
12.07	Termination
Vacation pay for employees who leave the
employment of the Employer for whatever
reason shall be computed as follows:
(a)	Terminated employees who have not completed their first year of continuous service shall receive the appropriate percentage of earnings as defined in 12.02.
(b)	Employees who have not taken their vacations and who have passed their anniversary date in the calendar year of their termination will receive their vacation entitl ement as per Article 12.02 for the completed year plus the appropriate percentages of earnings for months worked after his last anniversary.
(c)	Employees who have taken vacations and have terminated before reaching the anniversary date at which full vacation credits would have been earned will have deducted from their final pay the differences between vacation monies actually received and allowed.
(d)	Employees who have taken all eligible vacations in accordance with 12.02 and who terminate after their anniversary date, will receive the appropriate percentages of earnings for months worked after their last anniversary to the date of termination, except as otherwise provided in 12.08.
33
12.08	Any employee sixty (60) years of age and over who terminates or retires and who has been continuously employed by Westar Mining Ltd. for ten (10) years or more immediately prior to his termination or retirement shall be paid a prorata portion of his vacation entitlement or a percentage of his earnings for that vacation year, whichever Is greater.
ARTICLE 13 RATES OF PAY
13.01	Wage Scales
The Employer agrees to pay its employees covered hereby, and the Union agrees that its members will accept wages for work performed in the various classifications contained in the Schedule of Wages as set forth in Appendix “A” attached hereto.
(
13.02	New Classifications
1.	When the Employer establishes a new job
classification for which no wage rate is now established, the rate for such new classification shall be established by agreement between the Employer and the Union. The final adjustment agreed to will be retroactive for the hours worked on the job.
2.	In the event the Union and the Employer
cannot agree on a wage rate for a new classification, the Employer will assign an interim rate and the parties will proceed to arbitration.
3.	The Employer will notify the Union in writing
34
thirty (30) days before a new job classification becomes operational.
4.	During the term of this Agreement the Company and the Union agree to discuss the implementation of a progression system for warehouse employees.
13.03	Dual Classification
In the case of an employee working in a dual capacity the employee shall be paid the rate that is highest for the class of work performed in any one (1) shift.
13.04	Rotation of Shifts
When any type of work is performed on a multiple shift basis, the general principle of shift rotation will be adhered to as far as is practicable.
13.05	Overrates
On application of the “red-circle” rates it is understood that the employee will not have his overrate reduced so long as he remains in the classification in which he holds the overrate. When he moves to another classification he will be paid the contract rate for the classification.
13.06	Shift Differential
Shift differentials will be paid for all hours worked on afternoon shift and night shift as follows:
Afternoon Shift Night Shift
35
13.07	1. Pay day shall be every second Friday; no
change to be made in the present method of issuing employees' pay statements. Any employee desiring to leave the service of the Employer shall, on his request, be paid all monies due him within two (2) working days after his stoppage of work.
2.	The employer shall establish a payroll deduction plan consistent with Revenue Canada’s rules and regulations concerning payroll deduction for registered retirement savings plans (RRSP). The payroll deduction plan shall be voluntary but made available to all employees on an individual basis.
13.08	(a) When an employee is properly designated
by the Employer as a leadman, he shall receive twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour more than his basic rate.
(b)	A leadman shall not have the authority to hire, discharge, promote, discipline or otherwise make effective changes in the status of employees or effectively recommend a change in status or disciplinary action.
(c)	It is understood that employees who are properly designated as leadman and who are receiving the appropriate premium for leadman will not receive an additional premium for orienting and training a new employee.
(d)	Effective January 3, 1980 the Company will appoint no further leadmen.
36
13.09	Employees personally selected to train or orient other employees who are designated as an employee-in-training, exduding apprentices, will receive a premium of thirty-five cents ($0.35) per hour while performing such work with employees so designated.
13.10	There shall be two (2) crew members on each Continuous Miner and Hydraulic Monitor that receive the operator's rate of pay at all times.
13.11	Bus System The Company agrees to provide free bussing to and from the work site for the employees. The Company and the Union shall meet to mutually agree on bus schedules and routes. The Company further agrees that the quality of busses shall be coach style busses. In addition the odd route has only three (3) people or less travelling. On these routes such as 1C at midnight Wes-tar may provide a company vehicle if busses aren’t supplied.
ARTICLE 14
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
14.01	The work week shall be five (5) days work a week eight (8) hours a day from Monday through Friday inclusive commencing at 12:01 a.m. Monday except that:
(a)	The Surface Mining Division defined as the open pit operation at Harmer, the Elkview Preparation Plant and loading facilities shall work a seven (7) day work week. A normal
37
work schedule for the employee will be arranged so that his normal work week will be five (5) consecutive days work and two (2) days of rest. It is around the clock basis, with a five (5) on two (2) off recognized, however, that a twenty-one (21) turn work schedule may result in occasional split days off. The Employer will make every effort to keep split day schedules to a minimum. The right to arrange the work schedule is vested exclusively with the Employer.
(b)	The By-Product production personnel shall work six (6) consecutive days with two (2) days rest.
(c)	The Power House Stationary Engineers at Michel shall work a 7-2, 7-1, 7-4 work schedule.
14.02	(a) Overtime at the rate of time and one-half shall be paid for:
1.	Any hours worked, in any one (1) calen-
dar day, Monday through Friday, that are not part of the regular eight (8) hour shift schedule for that week and are not in excess of eleven (11) hours worked per calendar day.
2.	The first eleven (11) hours worked on Sunday except that if Sunday is a scheduled day of rest and an employee works he shall receive double time for all hours worked.
3.	A maximum of eleven (11) hours worked on a Saturday if the work occurs on a Saturday which is the sixth scheduled
38
<( -j *- work day of that calendar week or the '	Saturday is a day of rest.
c	4. The first eleven (11) hours worked on
scheduled days off except for Sunday.
(b)	Overtime at the rate of double time shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per calendar day, Monday through Saturday and on Sunday, when Sunday is a regular scheduled day of work.
(c)	Payment of overtime rates shall not be duplicated for the same hours worked to the extent that hours are compensated for at overtime rates under one (1) provision, they shall not be counted as hours worked in determining overtime under the same or any other provision; except that regular scheduled hours worked on Sunday (ie. straight time hours) shall be counted in determining the forty (40) hours per week and that hours paid on a holiday (as established in Article 11, Holidays), whether worked or not, shall be counted as hours worked in determining overtime under the provision of this Article.
14.03	(a) Eight (8) hours work commencing at his designated marshalling point will constitute a work day for all employees.
(b)	Employees will have a lunch period of twenty (20) minutes to be taken during the 4th or 5th hours of any shift worked with the Employer retaining the right to schedule the lunch period.
(c)	Every employee shall receive two (2) ten
39
(10) minute rest breaks per eight (8) hour shift; one (1) in the first half and one (1) in the second half of the shift except that Underground employees shall continue their past practice of taking one longer rest break near the beginning of the shift. In all areas other than the underground the employer has the right to schedule the rest breaks for each employee.
14.04	Overtime shall be shared equitably amongst employees within the classification and work area in which the overtime is required.
n!
'	14.05 Employees required to work overtime will do so
on a voluntary basis.
14.06 In the event an employee is specifically requested to change shifts during his regular scheduled work week, such employee will be paid overtime for hours worked only on the first shift of the changed schedule.
ARTICLE 15 SAFETY
15.01	The Employer shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee comprised of representatives of the Employer and the Union to be known as the “Safety Committee.” The Committee will explore and attempt to agree upon a Safety program for each of the operations of the Employer by establishing subcommittees for each operation. It is hoped to arrive at a system
40
which will provide for a Union Safety Committeeman to be designated for each shift with the intent that employees will be represented in safety matters at all times. It is the further intent of this Article that safety representatives should be knowledgeable of the equipment and working conditions in each operation so that they will be alert to any hazard, and responsible in attitude and representation.
15.02	The Employer shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee in each operation. Elkview - Harmer Ridge - Balmer - Hydraulic -Michel Surface. The employees shall choose two (2) fellow employees to act on the committee in each operation. (Except that Harmer Ridge will be allowed four (4) employees). The Union will notify the Employer in writing as to who was chosen, The Union President or Secretary shall be a member of any of these committees.
15.03	The Safety Committee shall meet once each month. There will be an inspection tour of each operation and a meeting each month.
15.04	Safety Committeemen shall be notified of and shall have the right to investigate all major accidents or serious happenings in the operation. Safety Committeemen will be paid at their regular classification for investigating major accidents or serious happenings occurring while he is on shift and for the inspection tours and meetings. If there is no Safety Committee on shift when an accident occurs, the Employer
41
shall request two (2) Safety Committeemen that are off shift to investigate the accident, If only one (1) Safety Committeeman is on shift or if only one (1) shows up on request, then such Safety Committeeman shall appoint a fellow employee on shift to accompany him in his duties.
15.05	(a) Copies of minutes of monthly meetings will
be forwarded to the Union office, Employer's office and the appropriate government agencies. Chairman of the Safety Committee will alternate between the Union and the Employer's representatives every six (6) months.
(b) Each and every crew shall hold safety discussions at least once each month.
15.06	When an employee is ordered by the management to accompany an injured workman, he shall be compensated at the employees' classified rate for time necessarily lost. However, in the event that an underground workman is so ordered during the last half of his shift, he shall not be required to return to the mine for the balance of the shift and shall receive payment at the employees' classified rate for the full shift.
15.07	Physical Examinations
The Employer shall have the right to require that any applicant for employment shall pass a physical examination by a physician selected by the Employer. The Employer shall also have the right to require periodic physical examina-
42
tions for any employee whose activities affect the safety of other persons or of the property of the Employer. The Employer shall bear the costs of all physical examinations required by it. The Employer shall pay four (4) hours (not to be considered as time worked) at the employee’s regular wage rate, in obtaining periodic physical examinations (but not pre-employment physical examinations) at the medical clinic. The employee may take the examination at the designated medical clinic most convenient to himself.
15.08	Protective Clothing
(a)	The proper apron and/or shirts and gloves will be available for welders to check out of the warehouse when such apparel is required to ensure their safety and well-being while performing their job. Replacement issues will be made upon return of the previous issue.
(b)	Safety belts where applicable, By-Products protective footwear and spats, wet suits and rubber gloves where required will be provided by the Company at no charge to the employees. Replacement issues will be made upon return of the previous issue.
(c)	Having completed one (1) year of continuous service with the Company an employee will be reimbursed for having purchased a pair of safety boots from Wes-tar Mining Ltd. and will be issued a further pair of boots on each subsequent anniversary date. Boots will be obtained through the warehouse upon written application.
43
(d)	Each member of the U.M.W.A. who so requests, will be issued one (1) pair of coveralls, which will be exchanged weekly for a clean pair. Lost coveralls will be charged to employees at twenty dollars ($20.00) per pair. Coveralls will be returned to the Company upon termination.
15.09	Accidental Fatality in the Mine
In the event of an instantaneous death by an accident in or outside the mine, all employees shall suspend work in the area where the accident occurred for the remainder of the day of the accident, but shall resume work on the following day and shall continue to work until the day of the funeral at which time all areas shall be idle.
ARTICLE 16
EMPLOYEE CONDITIONS
16.01	Tools
All men working at the face or on other jobs which require the use of tools such as a pick, shovel, saw or axe, are required to obtain a set of tools from or through the Employer. The Employer will supply these tools free of charge.
16.02	All tradesmen (certified or uncertified) shall be required to have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired before they can qualify for their appropriate tradesman's rate, with the exception of machinery or tools which do not fall within the responsibility of the journeyman.
44
16.03	A tool allowance equivalent to two and one-half (2 1/2) hours pay per month at the employee’s applicable classified trades rate shall be paid to all tradesmen (certified, uncertified and apprentices in their second year and above) to purchase their own tools and to convert to metric tools provided such tradesmen have tools in excess of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00).
16.04	House Coal
1.	Coal will be made available for the private and individual use of employees, ‘retired employees, and for the widows providing their residence is in the immediate area.
2.	Coal prices for screened and dustless treated coal will be as set out below:
Michel	Fernie
Stoker	9.11	11.06
An additional twenty-five cents ($0.25) per ton on three (3) ton order delivered to Fernie. The rate mentioned above will be two dollars ($2.00) per ton less for retired employees.
16.05	Coke and By-Products
1.	The necessity for continuous and scheduled operation of the By-Products ovens of the Employer is recognized and admitted by the Union.
2.	The Employer will at least once each month post a work schedule at a convenient place in the plant showing each man the shifts he is scheduled to work, and failure to report for duty at the proper time by any man
45
without having given the Employer's superintendent two (2) hours notice before starting time, unless prohibited from giving notice by sickness or unavoidable circumstances over which the employee has no control shall be dealt with according to the absenteeism clause.
3.	It is agreed that no coke produced during a legal suspension of operations shall be sold on the market during such period. The ovens would be operated at a reduced capacity, approximately fifty percent (50%) of normal, subject to weather conditions during any such legal suspension affecting the mines.
4.	The Employer will post a “Pushing
Schedule” giving the time intervals at which ovens should be discharged which shall be at intervals of not less than thirty (30) min utes but may be at longer intervals. The Employer will decide as to the number of men required to operate the schedule as posted.
16.06	The Employer shall not introduce or institute any type or kind of wage incentive or bonus other than one to which the Union has signified its approval in writing.
16.07	Proper washhouse facilities with hot and cold water (running) and free bath soap shall be provided by Employer as in the past,
46
16.08	The Company shall give preference of employment to members of employee's immediate family.
16.09	Wet Pay
A working place in the mine which produces ’ water from the roof equal to the amount experienced while stoping will be considered a “wet place” for which one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per day extra will be paid to those affected inside employees. Water conditions in excess of those described above will be considered “abnormal wet” for which one (1) extra hour at straight time will be paid above the eight (8) hour shift for those affected inside employees.
16.10	Abnormal Weather Conditions
1. In the case where an underground employee is required by the Employer to perform duties outside of the mine under abnormal weather conditions, the Employer agrees to provide suitable extra clothing to keep him warm and dry during the performance of such work. The foregoing shall not apply to any employee engaged in his usual occupation in/or about the mine.
16.1	1 1.Marshalling Points
The Company will maintain marshalling points at Michel, Harmer, Central Component Rebuild, Central Warehouse, Panel 6, Elkview, and Reclamation washhouses. It is understood and agreed that in the event that future development requires new mar-
47
shalling points then the Company and the Union will discuss the matter prior to any introduction of any changes from the current system.
2. Exploration Personnel
Because exploration personnel can only work about five (5) months per year, the remaining time they will continue to be classed as exploration but can be employed in any part of the Employer's operations. At all times the exploration crew's marshalling point will be the Michel Washhouse.
16.12	Seniority List
The Company agrees to provide and post behind glass a seniority list of the employees covered by this Agreement in May and September of each calendar year.
16.13	Underground Premium
1.	All underground employees plus those
employees required to work in the raw <	coal tunnel from Harmer to the Prep ara-
tion Plant shall receive two dollars ($2.00) per hour effective the date of ratification of this collective agreement, in addition to their classified rate for all hours worked underground. There will be no pyramiding of the underground premium in the calculation of overtime.
2.	Employees whose regular job is not under-
ground shall receive the underground premium for actual time spent underground.
3.	No premium shall be paid for hours worked where regular underground employees are
48
assigned to work which does not require them to go underground anytime during that shift. The Company will continue its past practice in the application of this section.
4.	No premium shall be paid for hours worked where regular underground employees are asked to work overtime on an other shift which work does not require them to go underground.
16.14	Security Checks.
It is agreed that all employees will observe and submit to regular Security checks.
16.15	Tuition Reimbursement
The Company agrees to reimburse the full cost of books and tuition fees of any course where such course is directly related to work within Westar Mining Ltd. upon such employee successfully completing the course. It is understood that this benefit does not apply to designated apprentices, Employees wishing to take the advantages of this benefit must have the course approved by the training committee prior to enrollment.
16.16	The current suggestion plan providing incentives to employees who submit ideas which, upon implementation increase the efficiency and productivity of the Company shall continue.
16.17	Access to the Company washhouses will be
49
made available to Union officials designated as:
District President
District Secretary/Treasurer
Local President
Local Vice-President
Local Secretary/Treasurer
Local Recording Secretary
International Board Member
District 18 Board Member
To gain access these designated officials sign
in and out at either of the gate houses.
Should any of the above designated officials wish to enter the production and maintenance areas they will after signing in at the gate house be required to check in with the senior supervisor on shift in the area they wish to visit. That supervisor will provide an escort to the area requested. No Union official will disrupt work in progress in any area visited. On prearranged meetings between Union and Company officials the Union officials will sign in at the gate house closest to the meeting except when the meeting is held in an area that does not require the Union official to pass by a gate house. Prior to access being allowed any official, the Union will advise the Company in writing of the names of the current officials as defined above.
16.18	Employees required to work two (2) hours or more of unscheduled overtime in excess of their regular shift shall be provided a meal in accordance with present practice or at the employee's option be given a meal allowance in the amount of six dollars ($6.00). The allowance shall be paid with the employee’s regular pay.
50
ARTICLE 17
INSURANCE BENEFITS
17.01	(a) The Employer agrees to pay the total cost of , a Group Life and Accidental Death and Dis-'< memberment Insurance for all employees which will provide the following:
Effective Date Life Insurance AD&D.
January 1,1985	$35,000	$35,000
January 1, 1987	$40,000	$40,000
(b)	Non-occupational Sickness and Accident Insurance will be provided for each employee who is a member of the Union, with the total cost paid by the Employer. Sickness and Accident Benefits shall be for a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks payable from the first day of accident, first day of hospitalization and from the fourth day of absence due to sickness in accordance with the following schedule:
Effective Date Weekly Indemnity January 1,1987	$350.00/week
Effective the date of ratification $500.00/week
(c)	A disability resulting from the same cause as a previous disability will be treated as a continuation of that disability unless an employee has returned to work for a period of fourteen (14) calendar days.
(d)	It is a condition of employment that
51
employees maintain enrollment in the above Insurance Plan.
17.02	(a) The Employer agrees to continue to provide
each employee with the medical and surgical and extended health benefit coverages equivalent to M.S.A. in British Columbia which were in force at the date of signing the Agreement at no cost to the employees. Such coverage to be effective the first day of employment with the Employer. The Extended Health Care Benefit Plan shall include as eligible for reimbursement, co-insurance fees and out -patient fees paid by employees.
(b)	The Company shall supply a 100% Extended Health Care card (i.e. Blue Cross) for prescription drugs for the employee and his family effective July 1, 1989. There shall be no deductables and prescription drugs shall be paid 100%.
17.03	It is a condition of employment that employees maintain enrollment in the above Medical Plan.
17.04	Insurance on Employee’s Clothing
The Employer will ensure employees’ clothing in the washhouse against loss’ by fire only to a maximum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) in each individual case.
17.05	(a) Employees on leave of absence in excess of
sixty (60) calendar days are required to make their own personal arrangements for
i-r
52
continuation of Group Insurance and Medical coverages referred to in this Article.
17.06	Dental Care Plan
Including orthodontia covering the employee, his a I (J spouse and their dependent children under the 1 age of nineteen (19) years of age. Benefits shall be equal to those provided under Medical Seri' ' vices Association.
,	Plan A	100%Coverage
I '■	Plan B	50% Coverage
Plan C	50% of approved schedule of fees
Orthodontia Lifetime maximum:
Effective Jan. 1, 1984 $1,500.00 Effective Jan. 1,1985 - $1,750.00 Cost to be paid by the Employer
Effective July 1,1990 subject to the terms of the plan, the Company shall ensure the following plan improve ments:
Plan A	100% Coverage
Plan B	100% Coverage
Plan C	100% of approved schedule of fees
Orthodontia Lifetime maximum:
Effective July 1,1990 - $2,500.00
Cost to be paid by the Employer
17.07	(a) It is a condition of employment that all employees will join and remain in the dental care program except those excluded by the past Agreement of 01/01/76 -12/31/76.
53
(b) All employees will be required to enroll in the dental care plan commencing thirty (30) calendar days after the date of hire.
17.08	Optical Plan
Effective the date of ratification the Company / '	will provide a maximum one hundred dollars
($100.00) in any one (1) year period for the
purchase of prescription glasses or corrective lenses, for the employee and the employee's spouse or any dependent children.
ARTICLE 18 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
18.01	Leave of absence on compassionate grounds or for long journeys will not be unreasonably withheld by the Employer.
18.02	(a) When death occurs in an employee's im-
mediate family (spouse, mother, father, f-i ,	mother-in-law, father-in-law, son, daughter,
brother or sister, grandmother, grandfather, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law) an employee upon request will be excused for up to three (3) days provided the days are taken within seven (7) days of the funeral.
(b) The employee shall receive pay at his regular daily pay defined as, eight (8) hours at classified rate of pay, underground premium where applicable, hot change where applicable, shift differential where applicable for any such excused shifts he
54
would have worked provided it is established that there was a death in the immediate family.
18.03	Jury Duty
When a regular employee is called for jury service, he shall be excused from work on the days he is required to appear in court. Employees called for jury duty, upon proof of such service and the amount of pay received thereof, will be paid whatever sum, if any is necessary in addition to the fees received for jury duty service to reimburse him for earnings lost because of such jury duty.
This section shall apply to a subpoenaed witness, except when an employee is appearing as a witness in his own defense.
ARTICLE 19 JOB POSTINGS
19.01 (a) All permanent job vacancies shalt be posted i	on the Notice Boards in the washhouses
/ j '■'/	with a copy sent to the Secretary of the
Local Union. The job vacancy posting form, Appendix "C" must be fully completed by the l	Employer. The employee shall be provided
job posting application forms, as per Appendix "C", by the Employer.
(b)	If a person leaves a specific job and such job continues, the job shall be posted under all circumstances. Should the posting not be filled, the junior person(s)
55
on the excess crew shall be given bumping rights until the most junior person has filled the vacancy.
19.02	All permanent vacancies will be posted within four (4) working days of the vacancy occurring and will be posted for a period of four (4) working days. The successful applicant shall be awarded the posting within four (4) working days from the closing of the bid. The Employer shall post the name of the successful applicant in all areas.
19.03	Within ten (IO) working days the successful applicant will be reclassified into his new job, and the Company will place the employee in the new job within twenty (20) working days.
19.04	Jobs will be assigned as follows:
,	Job Classes I - Xii on the basis of the
j s' employee’s Company seniority.
Job Classes XIII - XVI on the basis of seniority f	providing they have the ability and physical fit-
ness to perform the job.
19.05	There will be a ten (10) working day training and orientation period for new applicants in job classes I - IX inclusive. There will be a twenty (20) working day training and orientation period for new applicants in Job Classes IX-A - Xii. All applicants who bid on job classes I - XII inclusive and are chosen according to the terms of the job posting procedure, shall be given proper instruction by the supervisor or fellow employee designated by the Employer.
56
19.06	Employees who do not successfully complete their training and orientation period will revert to their former position. Such employee(s) will not be eligible to re-bid on that job for a period of six
(6)	months.
19.07	New employees hired in either one of the four (4) sections, Michel, Elkview, Harmer o r Reclamation, will not be able to bid into another section for six (6) months after the date of hire.
19.08	Any employee may bid from one section to another one (1) time in any twelve (12) month period except that apprentices will be required to stay in their designated sections.
19.09	Having successfully bid on a specific job within a classification the employee will be eligible to bid laterally only once within that same classification in any twelve (12) month period.
19.10	Employees bidding into the Preparation Plant will be required to spend qualifying periods in each plant operator level before bidding into the next higher plant operator or control room level. The periods of qualification shall be as follows:
-	three (3) months as a plant operator III before being qualified as plant operator II.
-	three (3) months as a plant operator II before being qualified as plant operator I.
-	three (3) months as a plant operator I before being qualified as a control room operator.
19.11	Employees bidding into the following classifications will be required to spend:
57
(a)	Six (6) months as a drill oiler prior to being able to bid on a drill operator's job.
(b)	Six (6) months as a shovel oiler prior to being able to bid on a shovel operator’s job. or must have:
(c)	the ability to perform the jobs of Front End Loader or Shovel Operator prior to being able to bid on Hydraulic Excavator (shovel).
19.12	Employees bidding into the following classification will be required to spend:
Six (6) months as a continuous miner faceman prior to being able to bid as a continuous miner operator or hydraulic monitor operator.
19.13	Credit will be allowed, for relief operating, toward a job posting in Job Classes Xiii - XVI.
19.14	labourer positions are entry level jobs and will be posted as follows: Where a labourer vacancy is awarded to another labourer then the vacancy created as a result of this move will not be posted and the Company will fill the position by other means.
19.15	Should there be no successful applicants to any job posted in compliance with Article I9 of the current Collective Agreement and the Company is unable to fill the position through other means, the job will be re-posted after a period of forty-five (45) calendar days.
58
19.16	When an employee has entered into an apprenticeship contract, he may not bid on another apprenticeship while under contract with the Department of Labour.
ARTICLE 20
TRAINING
In co-operation with the Director of Apprenticeship and industrial Training, Department of Labour, Province of British Columbia, the following program shall apply:
20.01	1.Purpose
The purpose of this program is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed as journeyman and apprentices in respect of the trades named in Point #2 herein.
2.Trades
(a)	automotive - 4 years
(b)	electrical - 4 years
(c)	heavy duty mechanics - 4 years
(d)	instrumentation - 5 years
(e)	machinist - 5 years
(f)	millwright - 4 years
(g)	steamfitter-pipefitter - 5 years
(h)	welder - 3 years
(i)	linemen - 3 years
(j)	carpenter - 4 years
All employees in the above noted trades shall be employed in compliance with the Apprenticeship and Tradesman Qualifications Act.
59
3.General Principles
(a)	All applicants must be chosen according to the job posting provision.
(b)	Once started in this program subject however to the provisions of this Agreement, the apprentice shall have the right to continue provided he passes all the tests and work is available for him.
(c)	In the event that an apprentice fails the tests at the end of his period of training in the vocational school, the apprentice will be given an opportunity to re-attend that period of training, however, should the apprentice fail the repeated period of training, he shall be required to withdraw from the program.
(d)	Depending upon the availability of space in the vocational school and with the approval of the Apprenticeship Branch the apprentice will be reassigned to the course which he has failed preferably within a period of one hundred and twenty (120) days.
(e)	Should an apprentice fail to qualify at the conclusion of any training period as listed in (c) above, he will be required to repeat said period and will not receive the appropriate wage increase as set forth in Appendix ‘A’ attached hereto.
(f)	Wherever reference is made to a year as an apprentice it shall mean a period of not less than one thousand and six hundred (1,600) hours or two hundred (200) working days. Said period to include time spent at the vocational school.
60
In the event a participant works less than two hundred (200) days and has attended vocational school within the year, he will, subject to the approval of Apprenticeship Industrial Training Branch, be given an opportunity to take the required test.
(g)	The Employer will ensure that the apprentice will be given the necessary on-job practical training.
(h)	Certification of those employees presently recognized and being paid as journeymen in the above noted trades will be strictly on a voluntary basis. Any employee affected by this clause of the Agreement who elects to remain in his present category or, who writes a Trades Qualification test and fails shall suffer no change in status or loss of pay.
(i)	Entrance to the program will in all cases be subject to the applicant meeting the standards required by the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
(j)	There will be no age limit for applicants into the program.
20.02	Training Schedules
All successful applicants will be registered as apprentices and will attend technical training within twelve (12) months of registration and each succeeding year thereafter. Apprentices shall attend technical training as prescribed by the Director of Apprenticeship and Industrial Training. If by any reason the vocational school facilities are unavailable, such period of excess
61
shall be credited to the apprentice in the succeeding training requirements if successfully completed.
20.03	Journeyman Qualifications
(a)	Upon successful completion of his appren-x ticeship, the apprentice shall receive the es-\	,	tablished certified journeyman rate of pay.
7	(b) Where an apprentice successfully
graduates to a journeyman within his trade, and if no posting vacancies exist at the time he graduates, a journeyman's position will be posted within his trade in either Harmer, Michel or Elkview. The graduate apprentice may bid on such job posting, however, should he elect not to do so and/or another journeyman is successful in bidding into the position, then the graduating apprentice will be placed in the ultimate vacancy created. Subsequent to this move the graduating apprentice may bid into any other positions in keeping with the provisions of Article 19 of the Collective Agreement.
20.04	Allowances While Attending School
(a)	Upon successful completion of the school .y	period, the Employer will supplement al-
1	lowances paid to the apprentice by the ap-
propriate Government Authorities (exclud-(	ing the living-away-from-home allowance)
to an amount equal to that which the apprentice would have received had he not attended school but not more than an amount equal to forty (40) hours at his basic rate of pay in each week of full school attendance.
62
(b)	Tradesmen who:
1.	Have three (3) or more years continuous service with the Company and,
2.	Have requested a leave of absence not less than thirty (30) days in advance to upgrade, within their trade, maintenance skills used on Company property, (this provision shall apply to not more than three (3) employees in any one (1) trade, certified and uncertified, at the same time and not more than one (1) from Michel and one (1) from Elkview and two (2) from Harmer at the same time), and,
3.	Are accepted by a recognized trade school for the purpose of upgrading or obtaining a Trade Certificate within his
[, /	trade will, upon successful completion of
'	the school period be paid by the
Employer a supplement to allowances paid to said employees by the appropriate Government authorities (excluding living-awayfrom-home allowances) an amount equal to that which the employee would have received had he not attended school, but not more than an amount equal to forty (40) hours at his basic rate of pay in each week of full school attendance to a maximum of four (4) consecutive weeks.
20,05	Tools
(a)	The first year apprentices generally shall not be required to own tools and shall use those designated to him. However, in his
63
own interest he should commence the process of building up a tool kit.
(b)	The second, third, fourth, and fifth year apprentices shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and be in the general process of building up the necessary tools to equip himself for the job.
(c)	All journeyman tradesmen shall be required to have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job before they can qualify for the journeyman's rate, with the exception of machinery or tools which do not fail within the responsibility of the journeyman,
20.06	(a) The first or second year apprentice shall as-
sist the third, fourth, and fifth year apprentices and/or the journeymen and work under their direction.
(b)	The third, fourth, or fifth year apprentices shall be qualified to assist the journeymen and work under his direct supervision and instruction,
(c)	The journeyman must be qualified to carry out the responsibilities of his trade as outlined by the Apprenticeship and Tradesman's Qualification Act and be able to direct assistants.
20.07	Training General
The Employer shall train employees (except
tradesmen - as they have their own programs) (	1 on an area and shift basis, by seniority, where
1	such training is available, in order to develop
those senior employees so that they may qualify ( for higher rated or different job classifications,
I
64
20.08	The Company will develop a training program in conjunction with East Kooterlay Community College for chainmen who wish to qualify as surveyors. This training will be iavailabie to a minimum of two (2) chainmen ajt any one time and will follow the sequence and iqualifiers described below:
(a)	Only classified chainmen will be eligible for this training and those employees will remain as chainmen during the training program.
(b)	The chainmen must successfully complete Surveyors Mathematics prior to acceptance on this training program.
(c)	The surveyor trainee will follow the course curriculum as offered by evening program, and also through formalized on the job training.
(d)	The Company will reimburse the trainee for successful completion of each section of study, A trainee who does not successfully complete any portion of the course of study (either evening program or field training) will not be allowed to continue on the surveyor training program.
ARTICLE 21
SAVINGS CLAUSE
21.01	If any article, section, paragraph, clause or phrase of this Agreement shall, by any Provincial, Federal or other law, or by decision of any court be declared or held illegal, void or unenfor-
65
ceable, the remaining portions of this Agreement shall continue to be valid and in full force and effect; and the parties shall thereupon immediately start to renegotiate that part or parts declared or held invalid. If the parties do not agree upon a mutually satisfactory replacement within ninety (90) days after the date of the conclusive declaration, the parties shall resort to Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
21.02	The parties hereto mutually agree to exclude the operation of Section 66(2) of the Labour Code of British Columbia.
ARTICLE 22 ABSENTEEISM
22.01	When an employee absents himself from work for a period of more than:
(a)	seven (7) days in a calendar year
OR
(b)	three (3) consecutive days
OR
(c)	any combination thereof to make a total of seven (7) days in a calendar year, unless through sickness or by first having properly arranged with his foreman and obtained his consent, he may be discharged.
An employee whose absence from work would cause any stoppage of work, must, before absenting himself properly arrange with or notify the foreman of his intended absence, otherwise he may be terminated.
66
ARTICLE 23 CHRISTMAS BONUS
23.01	A Christmas bonus will be paid each year during the term of this Collective Agreement to all eligible employees. Eligible employees must have one (1) year continuous service to December 1st of such year and shall receive the bonus one (1) pay day prior to Christmas in accordance with the following:
Effective the date of ratification - $300.00
23.02	Pro rata payments for the months they are on the payroll shall be provided for those mine workers who are given employment or who are laid off during the December 1st to November 30th qualifying period.
ARTICLE 24 SEVERANCE PAY
24.01	Should the Company be forced to layoff any employees for an indefinite period due to a shortage of work, then those employees laid off will be eligible for a severance payment of four (4) hours pay per month of service at the employee's regular rate of pay up to a maximum of three hundred (300) hours provided that:
(a) Employees accept the severance pay as final termination of employment with the Company and will no longer be eligible for any recall rights under the Collective Agree-
67
merit. Effective the date of ratification the maximum severance pay shall be increased to three hundred and fifty (350) hours.
24.02	It is understood that the above provision will ° apply to employees retiring at age sixty (60) or
over and to employees going on long term disability benefits or dying. Termination of employment for reasons other than those stated above (ie. quits or discharge for cause), are not to be construed as a layoff.
24.03	it is further understood that the above benefits are payable in addition to the technological change provisions in Article 8.
24.04	The administration of this Agreement will include the following provisions:
(a)	If at the time of layoff no return to work date is given, then the laid off employees are eligible for severance pay at the time of layoff notice.
(b)	If the return to work date is greater than thirty (30) days hence, then the laid off employees are eligible for severance pay at the time of layoff.
(c)	Where the total number of days laid off exceeds thirty (30) days in any twelve (12) month period the employees shall be entitled to severance pay.
68
ARTICLE 25
TERMINATION BENEFIT
25.01	A termination benefit shall be payable upon written application to the mine worker who:
(a)	has completed at least three (3) full years from date of hire, but less than ten (10) years, of continuous service with the Company, and
(b)	is not eligible for any other benefits payable under the Pension Plan.
25.02	The amount of termination benefit shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each year of completed service to a maximum of one thousand and eight hundred dollars ($1,800.00). In determining the amount of such benefit, service in excess of six (6) months will count as one (1) full year of service.
25.03	District 18, United Mine Workers of America service prior to January 1, 1976 will be included in the determination of the amount of benefit to which a mine worker is entitled provided such mine worker was in the employ of Westar Mining Ltd. on December 31,1975.
Termination benefits for employees hired subsequent to December 31,1975 will accrue solely as a result of the total length of service by the employees with Westar Mining Ltd.
25.04	Employees with ten (10) or more years of service as defined above will not be eligible for any
69
termination benefit, The benefits referred to in this Article shall however be paid to the widow or dependent(s) of any employee that dies while in the service of the Company and where there are no benefits payable from the Pension Plan, Appendix "B" attached hereto.
25.05	An employee eligible to receive a termination benefit may elect to leave his accumulated years of service in trust with the Company. Upon m-employment with the Company, such service will count as credited service for the purpose of determining pension benefits. Such person may elect to withdraw termination benefits any time after his termination of employment.
ARTICLE 26
26.01
This Agreement shall become effective on January 1,1989, and shall remain in effect until midnight of December 31, 1,991 and thereafter from year to year until either party shall give notice in writing to the other party of a desire to terminate the same at least ninety (90) days prior to Its expiry date.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their hands through their respective officers on the 30th day of May 1989.
70
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA. LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson. International Executive Board Member
E. DeAnna, President Local 7292
Bill Stuart, President District 18
C. Conners, Vice President, Local 7292
J. Mlttlestead. District Board Member
WESTAR MINING LTD
R.E. Vankoughnett
Director Human Resources
L. Knlert, Superintendent Mine Operations
M. Newman, Superintendent Mine Maintenance
I.M. Berzins, Manager
Employee Relations
J. Caldwell. Secretary Treasurer
S. Henwood Recording Secretary
J. Cesek,
Shop Steward
J. Hatfield Shop Steward
G. Bannick Shop Steward
71
APPENDIX “A’
Job
Class
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX IXA
X
XI XIA
XII
XIII
XIV x v XVI
U.M.W.A. RATES OF PAY ($/HR)
Jan.1	Jan.1	Jan.1
1988	1989	1990
16.44
16.60
16.79 16.98 17.15 17.70 17.78 18.12 18.22 18.30 18.39
18.59
18.80 19.01 19.20
19.60 19.83 20.77
16.79	17.19
16.95	17.35
17.14	17.54
17.33	17.73
17.50	17.90
18.05	18.45
18.13	18.53
18.47 i 18.87 18.57 N\ 18.97 18.65	19.05
18.74	19.14
18.94	19.34
19.15	19.55
19.36	19.76
19.55	19.95
19.95	20.35
20.18	20.58
21.12	21.52
\
Jan.1
17.69
17.85
18.04 18.23 18.40 18.95 19.03 19.37 19.47 19.55 19.64
19.84
20.05 20.26 20.45
20.85 21.08 22.02
72
JOB
CLASS
I
II
III
Iv
V
VI
VII
APPENDIX “A”
JOB CLASS
CLASSIFICATION RATES ($/HR)
CLASSIFICATION	01/01	01/01	01/01
OB	89	so
Labourer	$16.44	$16.79	$17.10
Ashman
Apprentice 0 • 6 mth.
Sampler ill
Utilttyman - Explosives
Cokeside in*Kp«ri«nc*<} 16.60	16.95	17.3!»
Silo Control Operator Apprentice 7 -12 mth.
Chainman 0-12 mth.
Plant operator IV 16.79	17.14	17.54
Apprentice 13 -18 mth.
Oiler Trainee - Drill
-Shovel
Chainman 13 - 24 mth.
Qratticeman	16.98	17.33	17.73
Pump Operator Serviceman Service Truck Dr.
Supplyman
Apprentice 19 - 24 mth.
Chainman 25 - 36 mth.
Greenhouse - Nursery Attd.
Tracklayer	17.15	17.50	17.90
Powderman's Helper
Holetman
Sampler II
Apprentice 25 - 30 mth.
Chainman ovw m mth 17.70	18.05	18.45
Plant op. Ill	17.78	18.13	18.53
Sampler I
Apprentice 31 - 36 mth.
73
01/01
91
$17.69
17.85
18.04
18.23
18.40
18.95
19.03
Truck Dr. 25-50 T.
Cokeside Experienced Load Point Operator Supply Operator
VIII	Mobile Loader Op. $18.12 $18.47 $18.87 Tool Crib Attd.
Continuous Miner Faceman Shuttle Car Operator Backhoe Operator Apprentice 37 • 42 mth.
Lorryman Miner Timberman Mobile Lift Op.
(9T & Over)
P.M. Repairman
Load Haul Dump Operator
Warehouseman
Oiler - Drill
-Shovel
IX	Drill Op. (7-11)	18.22	18.57	18.07
F.E. Loader Op.
(Under IS)
Grader Operator Plant op. II 100TTruck Driver scraper Operator Air Track Operator Auger Truck Operator Trackmobile Operator
IX A	Jackleg Operator	18.30	18.65	10.05
X	Crusher Operator	18.30	18.74	10.14
Dozer Operator
Breaker St. Op.
Uncert. Tradesman Cont. Miner Mech.
Apprentice 43 - 48 mth.
Pusher Operator Tarman
Twin Scraper Op.
Tireman
74
$19.37
19.47
19.55
19.64
Westar Mining
Job Posting Application (U.M.W.A.)
" • 		 ^reser: DeDc^n-.en'	j _
= :»sen; _.oc C ass 'a- C'	
Lencti* ol ’ ~e " Prese"' C as:	I
T'',:e Add: eD -o-	\c Add f-c =c
If Over Job Class 12-State Experience ;	
	
Supervisors Comments re Previous Experience if over Job Class 12
"APPENDIX C"
Westar Mining
JOB VACANCY POSTING
DEPARTMENT ____________POSTING NUMBER_________
POSTING DATE___TIME____EXPIRY DATE _ _ T I M E
JOB TITLE----------JOB CLASS____ RATE OF PAY__
CREW N U M B E R NUMBER OF VACANCIES
Job Classes I-XII -Awarded by Seniority
XIII - XVI - Awarded by Seniority provided the applicants
have the ability and physical fitness to perform the work.
Job Posting Applications may be obtained from your foreman and must be returned to him prior to the expiry date and time shown above.
APPENDIX C1
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
This letter is written for clearer definitions of Article 14.04 of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 14.04 reads:
“Selection of overtime shall be shared equit ably amongst those employees within the classification and work area in which overtime is required.”
The words “classification” shall mean “Job Classification and the words “work area” shall refer to the areas Harmer, Michel, Elkview and Reclamation.
Where the Company is aware at least two (2) hours before the start of the shift that overtime is required then every effort will be made to make such overtime available to employees within the job classification in which the work is required. Where the Company is unable to fill the overtime requirements through employees within such classifications then the work may be assigned to other employees within the work areas provided they are able to perform the work.
103
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF
AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson, International Executive Board Member
E. DeAnna, President Local 7292
J. Caldwell, Secretary/Treasurer Local 7292
WESTAR MINING LTD
R.E. Vankoughnett
Director Human Resources
Ian M. Berzins
Manager Employee Relations
104
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
The Company will maintain an “oiler trainee” program as follows:
a)	Employees will enter the program through Article 19 of the Collective Agreement at Job Class III.
b)	Rates of pay will be:
Month 0 to 6 Job Class Ill
Upon successful completion of the training period, employees will be reclassified to Job Class VIII. Successful completion to be determined by practical evaluation and written examination.
Should a trainee fail to qualify at the conclusion of the program, he will be required to spend a further three (3) months in the program prior to repeating the examination. Should the trainee fail again at the conclusion of the three (3) month extension period, he shall be required to bid and obtain another available job within a thirty (30) day period, otherwise he will revert to a labourer classification and will be unable to rebid on the oiler trainee position for a further twelve (12) months.
It is further understood and agreed that the contents of this Memorandum of Agreement will neither set precedent nor prejudice similar future cases.
105
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF
AMERICA. LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson, International Executive Board Member
E. DeAnna, President Local 7292
J. Caldwell, Secretary/Treasurer Local 7292
WESTAR MINING LTD.
R.E. Vankoughnett
Director Human Resources
Ian M. Berzins
Manager Employee Relations
106
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
The following represents examples of the administration of Article 12.02 of the new Agreement. (Vacation Entitlement)
EXAMPLE A
Employees having their second or third anniversary falling any time during 1984 will be entitled to three (3) weeks eighteen (18) days pay or six percent (6%) whichever is greater which they can take in 1984.
EXAMPLE B
Employees having their fourth through ninth anniversary falling during 1984 are entitled to four (4) weeks twenty-four (24) days pay or eight percent (8%) whichever is greater which they can take in 1984.
EXAMPLE C
Employees having their tenth through twentieth anniversary falling during 1984 are entitled to five (5) weeks thirty (30) days pay or ten percent (10%) whichever is greater which they can take in 1984.
107
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF
AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson, International Executive Board Member
WESTAR MINING LTD.
R.E. Vankoughnett
Director Human Resources
E. DeAnna, President	Ian M. Berzins
Local 7292	Manager Employee Relations
J. Caldwell, Secretary/Treasurer Local 7292
108
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
The parties understand and agree that the method of application of regular daily pay will be in accordance with the examples outlined in this Letter of Agreement.
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS Article 11.04 shall be administered in accordance with the following:
Whenever an employee is entitled to 11.04 (b) and/or (c) and/or (d) as part of his regular assigned scheduled shift then he shall also receive (b) and/or (c) and/or (d) as part of his statutory holiday entitlement.
In seven (7) day work schedule, the shift differential used in this calculation will relate to the regular work schedule immediately prior to the stat holiday.
For Monday through Friday work schedule, the shift differential used in this calculation will relate to the normally scheduled shift for that calendar week in which the holiday occurs.
VACATION
Article 12.06 shall be administered in accordance with the following:
Whenever an employee is entitled to 12.06 (a) and/or (b) and/or (c) and/or (d) as part of his regular assigned scheduled shifts then he shall continue to receive (a) and/or (b)
109
and/or (c) and/or (d) for each day of vacation pay.
The shift differential used in this calculation will be in accordance with the shift schedule had the employee not gone on vacation.
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson, International Executive Board Member
WESTAR MINING LTD.
R.E. Vankoughnett
Director Human Resources
E. DeAnna, President Local 7292
Ian M. Berzins
Manager Employee Relations
J. Caldwell, Secretary/Treasurer Local 7292
110
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
This letter constitutes a Letter of Agreement between Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, United Mine Workers of America as it pertains to apprenticeship job postings.
Where the Company finds it necessary to fill an apprenticeship position which vacancy has arisen as a result of:
(a)	The incumbents reaching journeyman status - the Company will then post the vacancies at the 0-6 level.
(b)	An apprentice leaving the apprenticeship plan, then such vacancy will be posted at the level vacated.
(c)	The Company expanding the numbers within a trade or where a new trade apprenticeship is introduced, then the Company will post the required number of vacancies throughout the apprenticeship classification.
The parties agree that this action will serve as full resolution to the grievance in question.
111
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF	WESTAR MINING AMERICA.
AMERICA, LTD.
LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson, International	R.E. Vankoughnett
Executive Board Member	Director Human Resources
E. DeAnna, President	Ian M. Berzins
Local 7292	Manager Employee Relations
J. Caldwell, Secretary/Treasurer Local 7292
112
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
This letter constitutes a Letter of Agreement between Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, United Mine Workers of America, as it pertains to the chainman training program (Article 20.08).
It is the intent of the training program that Chain-men enrolled in the program be given periodic pay increments based on time.
A “Chainman” who does not enroll in the program will remain at the 0-12 month rate - Job Class II.
For a “Chainman” who enrolls in the program, his rate of pay will be increased to the next increment twelve (12) months after his enrollment in the program. Should a Chainman drop out of the program after say eighteen (18) months, his rate would remain as Chainman 13-24 months.
It was the negotiated intent that the rate increments be an encouragement for individuals to increase their skills and knowledge in the surveying field, and thus, the rate increases should apply only to these individuals.
113
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF WESTAR MINING LTD.
AMERICAL. LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson, International Executive Board Member
R.E. Vankoughnett
Director Human Resources
E. DeAnna, President	Ian M. Berzins
Local 7292	Manager Employee Relations
J. Caldwell, Secretary/Treasurer Local 7292
114
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
The parties understand and agree that a direct bank deposit system will be implemented which will provide for employees pay to be available at the bank of their choice (from the list attached) every second Thursday at 3:00 p.m.
Each employee will be required to provide in writing to the Company Payroll Department, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of ratification their selection of bank and account number. Any employee who does not wish to utilize a regular bank account will advise the Company in writing of the master bank (as designated on the attached list) of their choice. Employees will then pick their pay up at the bank each pay day.
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson. International Executive Board Member
E DeAnna, President Local 7292
WESTAR MINING LTD.
H.E. Vankoughnett Director Human Resources
Ian M. Berzins
Manager Employee Relations
J. Caldwell, Secretary/Treasurei Local 7292
115
SPARWOOD Royal - (Master Bank)
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
FERNIE	Bank of Nova Scotia Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (Master Bank) Bank of Montreal Toronto Dominion
BLAIRMORE	Bank of Nova Scotia Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Credit Union Royal Bank of Canada (Master Bank)
COLEMAN	Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Credit Union
BELLEVUE	Royal Bank of Canada
HILLCREST	Credit Union
	116
LETTER OF AGpEEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7j292
This letter will confirm the Agreement reached between Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, United Mine Workers of America.
1.	Effective April 1, 1980; Westar Mining Ltd. will perform the functions currently being performed by the employees of Ace Explosives Ltd. on Westar) Mining Ltd. property and these functions will no longer be subcontracted out except for experimentation of new explosive products only.
2.	This will be accomplish d as follows:
(a)	The new positionst ill be posted in accordance with Article 19 as service operator - Explosives Job Class XI and if required, utility map - Explosives Job Class I. (non truck!driver or major explosives mixer). i!
(b)	Should the Company be unable to fill the posted positions from within, then qualified Ace Explosives employees posting on these | positions will be awarded the job irji order of Ace Explosives seniority, (iie. - the most senior person bidding shall be first, etc.)
In this instance, Ace Explosives employees shall apply by submitting an application on the job posting.
(c)	In the event that there are not enough
117
jobs for all of Ace Explosives employees at their present jobs, then Westar Mining Ltd. shall offer alternate available jobs to those employees who are displaced.
3.	(a) An Ace Explosives employee who accepts employment with Westar Mining Ltd. effective April 1,1980, will have their seniority with Ace Explosives recognized by Westar Mining Ltd. in all respects except for the purpose of job posting and lay off. Linder these circumstances, seniority shall commence April 1, 1980, the date of employment with Westar Mining Ltd.
(b)	The Ace Explosives position, lead hand will continue to be recognized as a Westar Mining Ltd. position after April 1, 1980. After April 1, 1980, it shall be governed by the Collective Agreement between the patties.
(c)	For the period January 1,1980, to March 31, 1980 the present Ace Explosives employees shall be paid one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour for hours worked in addition to their respective rates for 1979. Commencing April 1, 1980, the hourly rate shall be as contained in the Westar Mining Ltd. Agreement for Job Class XI or I.
(d)	Those Ace employees who accept employment with Westar Mining Ltd. will not be eligible to receive either severance pay or termination benefits from Ace Explosives Ltd. as defined in the Ace Collective Agreement.
118
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF	WESTAR MINING LTD.
AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson, International	R.E, Vankoughnett
Executive Board Member	Director Human Resources
E. DeAnna, President	Ian M. Berzins
Local 7292	Manager Employee Relations
J. Caldwell, Secretary/Treasurer Local 7292
119
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
This letter constitutes a Memorandum of Agreement between Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, United Mine Workers of America as pertains to the employees covered in the Variance of Certification, issued by the Board of Labour Relations on May 8,1977.
All the terms and conditions as stated herein shall be in full force and in effect from May 8, 1977 to the date of implementation. Thereafter all affected employees will be covered by the terms and conditions of the current Collective Agreement between Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, United Mine Workers of America.
Marshalling Points
Shall be the place known as the Hostel Office.
y( Shift Schedule
The normal work week will be day shift Mon-i	day - Friday 8:00 - 4:00 (twenty (20) minutes
v	paid lunch).
Seniority
All affected employees will maintain seniority based upon their most recent date of hire.
120
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF
AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson, International Executive Board Member
E. DeAnna, President Local 7292
WESTAR MINING LTD
R.E. Vankoughnett Director Human Resources
Ian M. Berzins
Manager Employee Relations
J. Caldwell, Secrelary/Treasurer Local 7292
121
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
This will confirm the following understanding and agreement between the parties with respect to foremen:
a)	It is agreed that the Company may appoint employees as foremen in accordance with past practice prior to the decision of the Labour Relations Board of British Columbia dated November 10, 1981.
b)	It is further agreed that if the appointment is for a period not to exceed forty-five (45) days worked per calendar year that during such time the employee's job shall not be posted.
c)	If an employee works beyond the forty-five (45) working days, as noted above, such employee's job shall be posted. Following the extended assignment he shall be required to pay a further initiation fee to the Union and comply with the job posting provisions of Article 19.
d)	The Company shall advise the Union every two (2) weeks of the employee’s name and duration of assignment including shifts worked as a Foreman.
In consideration of this agreement the Union agrees to withdraw Grievance No. 08-01-80 and the Union shall not initiate any new grievances during the term of the present Collective Agree-
122
ment with regard to foremen who work no more than the forty-five (45) days in a calendar year.
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson, International Executive Board Member
E. DeAnna, President Local 7292
WESTAR MINING LTD.
R.E. Vankoughnett
Director Human Resources
Ian M. Berzins
Manager Employee Relations
J. Caldwell, Secretary/Treasurer Local 7292
123
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
This letter confirms that the Company agrees to:
(a)	Print one thousand and three hundred (1,300) copies of the Memorandum of Terms of Agreement for distribution to the membership.
(b)	The Company agrees to print and pay for two thousand (2,000), booklet form Collective Agreements following ratification. The booklets will be available for each current employee and two hundred (200) copies will be given to the Union.
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF
AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson, International
Executive Board Member
WESTAR MINING LTD
R.E, Vankoughnett
Director Human Resources
E. DeAnna, President	Ian M. Berzins
Local 7292	Manager Employee Relations
J. Caldwell, Secretary/Treasurer Local 7292
124
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
PERTAINING TO EQUALIZATION OF OVERTIME:
The Company agrees to post an overtime list behind glass in the deployment area with a copy of same to be sent to the Union office on a weekly basis.
The Company also agrees that all equalization of overtime payments shall be paid at time and one-half (1 1/2).
It is further agreed that each department will review the overtime list every three (3) months with the union representatives in the respective areas during the calendar year.
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson International Executive Board Member
WESTAR MINING LTD
RE. Vankoughnett Director Human Resources
125
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
RE: OVERTIME WORKED OUT OF CLASSIFICATION
The Company shall post all overtime worked out of classification in all areas on a bi-weekly basis. The classification worked shall be identified. Overtime worked out of classification shall not be included with the overtime worked in classification.
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA. LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson International Executive Board Member
WESTAR MINING LTD
R.E. Vankoughnett Director Human Resourcos
126
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
1.	Approximately 70% of new hires shall be
hired from applicants that are the immediate family of current U.M.W.A. employees.
Also, an employee's seniority shall be a consideration when hiring a member of his family.
2.	Hiring shall be done in a fair and just man ner.
3.	Once the selection process is complete, written notification of applicants to be hired will be given to the U.M.W.A.
4.	Grade 12 completion is not a requirement to be hired.
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson International Executive Board Member
WESTAR MINING LTD
H.E Vankoughnett Director I Inman Rosources
127
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
Re: Hydraulic Excavator (Shovel)
The Company agrees that when the first new Hydraulic Excavator (shovel) arrives, the positions of Operator for such machine shall be posted and all such operator positions shall be awarded on the basis of seniority only. This applies to the first new Hydraulic Excavator (shovel) only.
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson International Executive Board Member
WESTAR MINING LTD
R.E, Vankoughnett Director Human Resources
128
A’
APPENDIX "D"
TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE
Appendix "D" only applies to employees working twelve (12) hour shifts in the Surface Mining Division as defined in Section 14.01 (a) of the Collective Agreement in effect between the parties signatory hereto.
All the terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement shall be in full force and effect except for the specific amendments, and or additions stated in this Appendix "D".
This Appendix "D" shall be part of the Agreement between the parties signatory hereto.
The twelve (12) hour shift schedule will be implemented on a trial basis for a period of four (4) months. The trial period will commence based on agreement between the parties.
The signatories hereto have to agree before the twelve (12) hour shift schedule will be impl-mented permanently. The employees shall decide, by secret ballot, to accept or reject the four (4) month trial period and/or the permanent implementation of the twelve (12) hour shift schedule.
The twelve (12) hour shift schedule is subject to the approval of the Ministry of Mines.
1.	Article 10 - Reporting Pay and Minimum Dailya y
129
Section 10.01 - Amended to read as follows:
“An employee who reports to work for his twelve (12) hour shift as scheduled without having been notified not to report and for whom no work is available, or who works less than six (6) hours will be allowed six (6) hours pay at the rate of the job for which he was scheduled to report.”
Section 10.02 - Amended to read as follows:
“An employee who reports for work on his scheduled shift and who works in excess of six (6) hours shall be provided work to complete his twelve (12) hour shift or be paid for the full twelve (12) hours in lieu thereof.”
Section 10.04 - Amended to read as follows:
(a)	Where an employee is called out to work outside his regular work schedule, he will receive a minimum of six (6) hours pay at overtime rates,
EXCEPT THAT
(b)	Where an employee is called out and reports for work prior to the regular starting time and continues to work through his regular shift, he shall receive at appropriate overtime rates:
(i) Pay for hours actually worked in advance of his regular starting time
130
when twenty-four (24) hours notice has been given,
OR
(ii) Six (6) hours pay or pay for actual hours worked in advance of his regular shift, whichever is greater when twenty-four (24) hours notice has not been given.”
2.	Article 11 - Holidays
Section 11.04 - Amended to read as follows:
“All employees shall be paid their regular
daily pay plus overtime, where applicable as
per Article 14, for holidays not worked.
Regular daily pay shall include:
(a)	Twelve (12) hours at classified rate of pay.
(b)	Underground premium where applicable.
(c)	Hot change where applicable.
(d)	Shift differential where applicable.”
Sub-Section 11.05 (b) - Amended to read as follows”
“Elect to receive twelve (12) hours pay in lieu thereof in addition to his regular vacation pay. In electing either option (a) or (b) above, the employee must meet all provisions of Article 11."
Section 1110 - Amended to read as follows:
131
“Article 11.04 and 11.09 shall be interpreted and applied in accordance with the following chart:
CALCULATION OF PAYMENT FOR STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
NOT WORKED
MONDAY -SATURDAY
SDW	12x1	“12 hours
SDO	12x1.5	=18 hours
SUNDAY STATUTORY
SDW	12x1.5	= 18 hours
SDO	12x2	=24 hours
WORKED 12 HOURS
MONDAY -SATURDAY
SDW	12x1,12x1.5	=30	hours
SDO	12 x 1.5, 12 x 1.5 - 36 hours
SUNDAY STATUTORY
SDW	12x1.5, 12x1.5 =36 hours
SDO	12x2,12x2	= 48 hours
NOTE: SDW -	Scheduled Day Worked
SDO -	Scheduled Day Off
3.	Article 12 - Vacations
Sub-section 12.05 (4) - Amended to read as follows:
“Employees working the twelve (12) hour
132
shift schedule may elect to have complete shift rotations or weeks as time off, but their vacation pay shall be governed by Sections 12.02 and 12.06."
4.	Article 13 - Rates of Pay
Section 13.06 - Amended to read as follows: “Shift Differential
Shift differential will be paid for all hours worked on the night shift as follows: Night Shift $1.07 per hour
NOTES:
a)	On shift rotations that are midnight to noon, the night shift shall be from 12:01 a.m. to 12 noon on shift rotations that are 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m., the night shift shall be from 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
b)	No shift differential will be paid for employees working the day shift”
5.	Article 14 - Hours of Work and Overtime
Sub-section 14.02 (a) and 14.02 (b) -Amended to read as follows:
(a) All employees working a twelve (12) hour shift schedule shall be paid overtime at the rate of time and one-half for:
1.	The twelve (12) hours worked on Sun-
133
day that are part of the regular twelve (12) hour work schedule.
2.	The first twelve (12) hours that are worked on scheduled calendar days off, except Sunday.
(b) Overtime at the rate of double time shall be paid for all hours worked:
1.	On Sunday, when it is a scheduled day off.
2.	On a scheduled day of work, Sunday to Saturday, which are not part of the regular twelve (12) hour shift schedule for that calendar day.
3.	On scheduled days off, Monday to Saturday, that are in excess of twelve (12) hours worked in any calendar day.
4.	That are in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours in any one (1) period of time."
Section 14.02 (d) - Add the following new subsection:
(d)	An employee that works in any calendar week shall receive one (1) additional overtime hours pay at his classified straight time rate of pay in addition to the actual hours worked during that calendar week (Le.: if during a calendar week an employee works thirty-six (36) hours, he shall be paid thirty-six (36) hours, as provided in the Agreement, plus he shall
134
be paid one (1) additional hour at his straight time classified rate).”
Section 14.03 Sub-sections (a), (b), and (c) shall be amended as follows:
(a)	Twelve (12) hours work commencing at his designated marshalling point will constitute a work day for all employees.
(b)	In each twelve (12) hour shift, employees will have the following rest breaks:
At the	end	of the 2nd hour one	15 minute	rest	break
At the	end	of the 5th hour - one	20 minute	rest	break
At the	end	of the 8th hour - one	20 minute	rest	break
At the	end	of the 10th hour • one	15 minute	rest	break
The Employer retains the right to schedule the rest breaks.”
6.	Article 16 - Employee Conditions
Section 16.18 - Amended as follows:
“Employees volunteering to work fourteen (14) or more consecutive hours will be provided a meal at the twelfth consecutive hour of work or at the employee's option he will be given a meal allowance of six dollars ($6.00)."
7.	Article 18 - Leave of Absence
Sub-section 18.02 (b) - Amended to read as follows:
“The employee shall receive pay at his regular daily pay, defined as; twelve (12)
135
hours at classified rate of pay, underground premium where applicable, hot change where applicable and shift differential where applicable, for any such excused shifts he would have worked provided it is established that there was a death in the immediate family.”
8.	Article 19 - Job Posting
Section 19.02 - Amended to read as follows:
“All permanent vacancies will be posted within four (4) working days of the vacancy occurring and will be posted for a period of five (5) working days. The successful ap plioant shall be awarded the posting within four (4) working days of the closing of the bid. The Employer shall post the name of the successful applicant in all areas.”
9.	Article 20 - Training
Subsection 20.01 3.(f) - Amended to read as follows:
“Wherever reference is made to a year as an apprentice it shall mean a period of not less than one thousand and six hundred (1,600) hours or one hundred and thirty-three (133) working days.
Said period to include time spent at the vocational school. In the event a participant works less than one hundred and thirty-
136
three (133) days and has attended vocational school within the year, he will, subject to approval of Apprenticeship Industrial Training Branch, be given an opportunity to take the required test.”
10.	Appendix "B" - Retirement and Benefit Plan Amended as follows:
“Credit as working:
Wherever reference is made in Appendix "B" to eight (8) hours it shall become twelve (12) hours for employees working the twelve (12) hour shift schedules.”
11.	Genera-
(a) The employees shall select, by secret ballot vote which one (1) of the attached three (3) shift schedules they prefer to work with respect to twelve (12) hour shifts (Appendix “A”).
Following the initial trial period the employees may elect to try one (1) other of the two (2) remaining schedules for an additional trial period.
On each of the three (3) schedules employees shall be given the option of working either of the following shift rotations:
137
(i)	12:01 a.m. to 12:00 noon, and 12:00 noon to 12 midnight,
OR
(ii)	8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., and 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
(b) The following understandings shall apply to twelve (12) hour shifts that rotate on the basis of 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., and 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.:
1.	A statutory holiday shall include all hours from 8:00 a.m. on the day of the statutory holiday to 8:00 a.m, the following day.
2.	The calendar week (seven (7) consecutive days) shall start at 8:00 a.m. Sunday and end at 8:00 a.m. the following Sunday.
3.	The calendar day shall be the twenty-four (24) hour period from 8:00 a.m. one day to 8:00 a.m. the following day.
4.	Sunday shall include all hours from 8:00 a.m. on Sunday to 8:00 a.m. on Monday. This same principle applies to all other days of the week.
d) The following understandings shall apply to any twelve (12) hour shift schedule:
1. An employee will not be penalized,
138
with respect to holiday pay, for absen-c-es on the last scheduled shift on Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve.
2. “Shift Rotation” shall mean any number of consecutive scheduled work days plus the consecutive days off that immediately follow such scheduled work days.
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF	WEST AR MINING LI D.
AMERICA. LOCAL 7292
Stuart Johnson, International Executive Board Member
E. DeAnna, President Local 7292
J. Caldwell, Secretary/Treasurer t oca! 7292
FLE, Vankoughnett Director Human Resources
tan M. Berzins
Manager Employee Relations
139
INDEX
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Abnormal
-Weather ................... 16.10	47
-Wet Pay ................... 16.09	47
Absence
-Leave of for
-Bereavement ...................... 18.02	54
-Compassion/Journeys .............. 18.01	54
-Union activities .................. 4.06	12
-Union officials.................... 4.07	13
-Without permission (AWOP) .... 22.01	66
Access
-To Property-Union	officials .... 16.17	49
Accident
-Fatality .......................... 15.09	44
-Investigation ..................... 15.04	41
Agreement
-Employees	covered by.............2.01
-Management	rights ............. 3.01
-Parties to .................... 26.01
-Purpose of	.................... 1.01
-Term of........................ 26.01
-Letters Of:
-Distribution of overtime ................
-Oiler trainee ...........................
-Vacation entitlement ....................
-Regular daily pay/Stat, Hcliday/Vacation -Apprenticeship job postings..............
1
11
70
1
70
103
105
107
109
111
140
INDEX
SUBJECT
ARTICLE .
-Chainman Training Program............
-Bank deposits
-Ace Explosives.......................
-Marshalling points, shift schedules, seniority -Temporary foreman .	.	.	.	.
-Printing of Agreements . -Equalization of Overtime . -Overtime worked out of Classification . -Hiring Practise .	.	.	.	.	.	.
-Hydraulic Excavator (Shovel) . .
Appendix
-Appendix “A” - Wages & classification
-Appendix "B" - Pensions................
-Appendix "C" - Job vacancy posting . -Appendix "D" - 12 Hour Shift Schedule
Arbitrators/Arbitration
-Appointment of arbitrators Grievances	.	.	5.06
Contracting	out...................2.05
Areas
-Defined............................19.07
Assignment
-Of wages............................4.03
A.W.O.P. (see Absences)
141
PAGE
113
115
117
120
122
124
125
126
127
128
72
76
101
129
16
2
57
11
INDEX
SUBJECT.	ARTICLE
Benefits
-Insurance - Life and A.D. & D.
-Sickness and Accident . . . .
-Medical....................
-Dental . . ,...............
-Optical....................
-Severance Pay . . . , ,....
-Termination................
Bereavement Leave................18.02
Breaks
-Lunch ............
-Rest .............
Bumping............
Bussing ...........
Call Out...........
Care for Mine ....
Cessation of Work
Check-off
-Union dues & initiation ...... 4.03
-No Company responsibility . . . 4.04
Christmas Bonus..................23.01
14.03(b)
14.03(a)
8.03
13.11
10.04
6.01
9.01
17.01(a)
17.01(b)
17.02
17.06
17.08
24.00
25.00
142
PAGE
51
51
52
53
54 67 69
54
39
39
19
37
24
17
23
11
12
67
INDEX
SUBJECT.	ARTICLE PAGE
Classification
-Job classes...................Appendix	A 72
-New classifications............ 13.02	34
-Dual job .	.	13.03	35
-Overtime in . .	.	.	14.04	40
Coal
-House .	.	.	16.04	45
Coke and By-Products	.	16.05	45
Continuous Miner
-Crew............................13,10	37
Continuous Service	.	.	8.01	18
Crew	Reductions	8.03	19
Disability
-Pertaining to job	postings	8.04	21
-Long term .	.	,	.	.Appendix B 76
Disputes
-Procedure to settle .	.	.	.	, .5	14
Double Time .	.	.	14.02(b)	39
Dual Classifications	.	13.03	35
assignment of 4.03	11
143
Dues
-Union;
INDEX
SUBJECT
ARTICLE PAGE
Employees
-Covered by the Agreement ...... 2.01	1
-Excluded from Agreement......... 2.02	1
-Of contractors ................ 2.03-2.05	2
-To care for mine................ 6.01	17
Exploration Personnel ........... 16.11	47
Grievance
-Adjustment of -Committee . . -Procedure, . .
-Policy
5.01	14
5.03	14
5.04-5.06 15 16
5.07	16
Hiring
-Preference ..................... 16.08/Letter 47
Holidays
Statutory holidays .........
-Observance of .............
-Quality for payment of . . . .
-Within vacation............
Calculation of payment for -Define regular daily pay . .
-Permission to work. -Birthdays .	.	.
11.01
11.02
11.03
11.05
11.10
11,04/Letter
25
25
26 26 27 26
109
27
25
Hours of Work
-Definition of work week . . . 14.01	37
144
INDEX
SUBJECT
ARTICLE PAGE
-Regular Shift schedules
by department. 14.01	37
Hydraulic Monitor
-Crew..............
immediate Family
-	Defined.
incentives	.
Injured Workman	.
insurance
-	Group Life. -On clothing.
13.10	37
18.03(a)	54
16.06	46
15.06	42
17.01	51
17.04	52
Job Postings
-Application form .Appendix C 101 -Requirements to post 19.01	55
-Posting form Appendix C 102 -Timing of posting 19.02	56
-Timing of award/reclassification 19.03	56
-By	seniority..	19.04	56
-By	ability.	.	19.04	56
-Training and orientation 19.05-19.06 56 -Bidding areas/restriction 19.07-19.09 57 -Bidding into Prep Plant 19.10	57
-Bidding as Drill/Shovel Oiler/Hyd. Excavator 57 ................................. 19.1 I Letter 128
145
INDEX
SUBJECT		ARTICLE
-Bidding as C.M. Op.	or	
Hydraulic	Op.	19.12
-Credits in job classes XIII ■		- XVI 19.13
-Labourers,.		19.14
-Reposting .		19.15
-Apprentice .		. Letter
PAGE
58
58
58
58
111
Jury Duty
18.03	55
Lay-off
-Procedure -Due	to
8.03	19
changes	8.05	21
Lead	Hands
13.08	36
Lunch Breaks (see Breaks)
Management	Rights	3.01	11
-Marshalling Points . . 16.1 i/Letter 47 .............................. 120
Meal Allowance
16.18	50
Medical
-Benefits	.	17.02	52
Minimum Pay
-Reporting -Call	out..
10.01	23
10.04	24
M.S.A. .	.	.	•	.......... 17.02	52
146
INDEX
SUBJECT
New Construction . Orientation	Period	.
Overtime
-Rates at time and one-half . -Rates at double time . -Distribution of.
-Voluntary	.
-Meals	.	.
-Equalization	.
-Worked out of Classification
ARTICLE . PAGE Letter	8
19.06	57
14.02(a)	38
14.02(b)	39
14.04/Letter 40
............. 103
14.05	40
16.18	50
Letter 125 Letter 126
Pay
-Rates	of	.
- Wet pay Regular daily pay defined
-call out . -Reporting -Pay day .	.
Pension
-(Cont’d)
Preference
-of employment., -job bidding.
Appendix A 72 16.09	47
11,04/Letter 26 109
10.04	24
..10.01	23
13.07(1)	36
.7.01-07.03	17
, Appendix B 76
. 1 6.08/Letter 47 .	127
. 8.04	21
147
INDEX
SUBJECT
Premiums
Shift differential -Underground . -Lead hand .
Physical Exams ....
Promotions/Transfer
ARTICLE	PAGE
13.06	35
16.13	48
13.08	36
.. 15.07	42
... 8.02	18
Protective Clothing............... 15.08	43
Pyramiding ....................... 14.02(c)	39
Qualifications & Progression
-Elkview Plant operators ......... 19.10	57
-Drill/Shovel Oilers/Hydraulic
-Excavator ..................... 19.1 i/Letter 57
...................................... 128
-Faceman to C.M. Op. and Hydraulic Op....................... 19.12	58
Rates
-Hourly rates . -Overtime -Over rates -Red-circled . -New rates/classification . -Regular daily pay-defined
Statutory holidays
Appendix A 72
14.02	38
13.05	35
8.08 22
13.02	34
11,04/Letter 26 .	109
11.10/Letter 27 .......	109
148
INDEX
SUBJECT	ARTICLE
Re-Classifying 19.03
Recognition
-Company recognition of U.M.W.A. 4.01 -Union recognition of Company 3.01
Red Circled .	8.03-13.05
Re-Posting	.	.	19.15
Retirement...............Appendix B
Rest	Breaks	.	14.03(c)
Rights
-Management	3.01
-To investigate accidents 15.04 R.R.S.P........................13.07(2)
Safety
-Accident Prevention Committee 15.01 -Meet ings/tours/in vest igatio ns 15.03
-Right of	Union to	investigate	15.04
-Monthly	meeting	minutes	15.05
-Boots			15.08(c)
-Other protective		clothing	15.08
Savings	Clause	21	.00
Scope	of Agreement		2.01
149
PAGE
56
11
11
19
35
58
76
39
11
41
36
40
41
41
42
43 43
65
1
INDEX
SUBJECT Security Checks -
Seniority.........
-Commences after.
-Broken by........
-Job posting......
-Lists ...........
Severance Pay - - -
ARTICLE PAGE
... 16.14	49
.... 8.00	18
.... 8.01	18
.... 8.02	18
. . . 19.04	56
... 16.12	48
8.06-24.00	21
67
Shifts
-Rotation.........................13.04
-Differential......................13.06
Schedules .	.	14.01/App."D"
-Changes of.................14.06
35
35
37
129
40
Sick	Benefits	.	17.01(b)	51
Statutory Holidays (see Holidays)
-Subcontracting
2.03-2.05	2
Surveyor
-Training	for	.	20.08
Termination
-Benefits . -For A.W.O.P, -Retirement
25.00	69
22.01	66
12.08	34
150
INDEX
SUBJECT
ARTICLE
Temporary Foremen Time and One-Half
Tools
-While in apprenticeship . Supplied by Company . -Allowances
Training .
-Apprenticeship trades Schedules	.
-Allowances . . . . Selection for training . -Chainman.........
-Premium for . -Oiler Trainee
Transportation (see bussing) Tuition Ftelmbursement
Vacations
-Eligibility
-Entitlement
-Vacation week defined Scheduling of . . -Pay............
Letter
14.02(a)
. 20.05 16.01 16.03
. 20.00 . 20.01 . 20.02 . 20.04 . 20.07 . 20.08/Letter
13.09 . Letter
16.15
12.01
12.02/Letter
12.03
12.05
12.06/Letter
109
151
RAGE
122
38
63
44
45
59
59
61
62
64
65 113
37
105
49
28
30
107
30
31
32
INDEX
SUBJECT	ARTICLE PAGE
Statutory holidays during . . 11.05	26
Washhouse	Facilities	16.07	46
NOTES
152