COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT between
OPERATING
CORPORATION
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113
00198 (05)
CONTENTS
ARTICLE
PAGE
PREAMBLE .............................
1	RECOGNITION ......................
2	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS.................
3	UNION SECURITY....................
4	NO STRIKES, NO LOCKOUTS ..........
5	SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES............
6	ARBITRATION.......................
7	DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE..........
8	OFFICERS, COMMITTEES AND STEWARDS .
9	SENIORITY.........................
10	LINES OF PROGRESSION/JOB
POSTINGSATRADES-POSTING SYSTEM.. .
11	HOURS OF WORK.....................
12	OVERTIME AND SPECIAL PAY..........
13	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS................
14	VACATION .........................
15	LEAVES OF ABSENCE ................
16	SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT....
17	HEALTH AND WELFARE................
18	GENERAL PROVISIONS................
19	APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM............
20	LEADHANDS.........................
21	TRAINING..........................
22	STUDENTS..........................
23	DURATION OF AGREEMENT.............
24	CHANGE IN JOB CONTENT.............
25	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE..............
26	TRADES COMMITTEE..................
27	LABOUR RELATIONS ENHANCEMENT FUND
...iii
.. .1 .. .3 .. .3 ...7 ...7 .11 .12 ..14 .16
..24
.37
.40
43
.46
.48
.52
66
.69
.77
79
81
.89
.89
.90
.90
.92
.92
I
CONTENTS - Continued
APPENDIX A: .....................................
Job Classifications &Wage Rates
APPENDIX B:......................................
Trades-Posting Work Assignment Areas
APPENDIX C:......................................
Lines of Progression (Road Crew)
(Plant)
(Mine Maintenance Department)
(Mine Operations Department)
APPENDIX D:......................................
Lines of Progession (Plant Operations Training)
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Expansion of the Operation.............
Manning of New Departments.................
Joint Orientation Package..................
Departure and Return to the Dry............
Article 7.03(a)............................
Counselling Letters........................
Temporary Re-Call Employees................
Rental Properties..........................
Call-outs..................................
Permanent Lay-offs.........................
Christmas Day, Boxing Day, New Years Day...
Final Closure of the Mine..................
Indenturing of Apprentices ................
Plant Maintenance Electrician Training ....
Warranty...................................
Duty to Accommodate .......................
Modified Return to Work Program and Alternate
Work Assignments........................
Engine Rebuild.............................
Memorandum of Agreement ...................
INDEX ...........................................
93
96
99
104
105
106 ,107 108
109
110 .111 112
113
114 .115 116 117 .118
119
120
121
123
124 127
ii
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between:
Quintette Operating Corporation (Hereinafter called the “Company”) of the first part
and
United Steelworkers of America Local 9113
(Hereinafter called the “Union”) of the second part
PREAMBLE
Whereas, the parties agree that it is mutually beneficial and desirable to promote harmonious relations and to set forth herein the agreement concerning rates of pay, hours of work and conditions of employment, safety, health, and welfare of employees to be observed between the parties and to provide a method for the orderly adjustment of differences and grievances, and to maintain an uninterrupted operation at the highest level of performance: wit-nessth in consideration of mutual covenants and agreements herein set forth, the parties hereto have mutually agreed as follows:
ARTICLE 1: RECOGNITION
1.01
(a)	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all the Company’s employees, employed at, or from it’s operation located approximately (16) kilometres from the Tumbler Ridge Townsite except: supervisory, professional, clerical, administrative, technical, laboratory, safety, security, janitorial (administrative offices), environmental and survey personnel.
(b)	This recognition referred to in 1.01 (a) pertains to rates of pay, hours of work, and other conditions of employment, in conformity with the laws of B.C. in respect to labour relations.
(c)	The word “employee” or “employees” whenever used in this Agreement refers to such employees as are covered by this Agreement. Words imparting the masculine gender shall include the feminine and vice-versa.
1.02	The Company and the Union shall co-operate fully in the promotion and achievement of the matters set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
1.03	Following notification and permission (not to be unreasonably withheld) from the Company, Union representative^) will be permitted entry to the Company's property in order to carry out their duties as related to the administration of the Agreement. Such duties are not intended to cause any disruption of the Company’s operations or affairs, or cause employees to neglect their work duties and responsibilities.
1.04	Employees and/or Union representatives shall not engage in any Union activity on Company property or during working hours, except as expressly provided for in this Agreement, or as otherwise mutually agreed upon.
1.05
(a)	The Company recognizes that it is not the function of persons of or above the rank of supervisor to perform work which is normally performed by an employee in the bargaining unit, except under emergency conditions or for the purpose of instruction or experimentation. For the purposes of this Article emergency is any sudden or unusual occurrence or condition that could not, by the exercise of reasonable judgement, have been foreseen by the Company.
(b)	In the event a person of, or above the rank of supervisor, performs work in violation of this section, the Company shall pay as a penalty an amount equal to the hourly rate of the employee(s) who would normally perform such work for the period of the violation, or for two (2) hours, whichever is greater, and such payment will be made to the Union.
1.06	Designated Individuals - it is expressly understood and agreed that notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the Company shall have the right from time to time to designate to the Union, individuals who agree to be given special experience or training in preparing them or trying out their capabilities for other or broader assignments with the Company or for future service other than to the Company not exceeding at any one time one percent (1%) of the employees; and to promote and demote such individuals and direct their efforts from time to time, free from any limitations provided for in this Agreement, provided however, that the employment of any such individuals shall not affect the seniority nor result in the demotion of any employee, and further that any such designation of individuals will last for a period of no more than four (4) calendar months. Individuals named under this clause will be placed with the regularly assigned employee who will familiarize this person with his job function.
2
ARTICLE 2:
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01	The Company shall retain, maintain and exercise all managerial rights, authorities, and prerogatives, subject only to the express terms and provisions of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 3: UNION SECURITY
3.01 Each employee shall as a condition of his hiring or continued employment:
(a) Authorize the Company in writing to deduct union dues from his pay. The authorization shall be in a forrrr^/ agreed to between the Company and the Union.	/
(b) Become a member of the Union and maintain membership in good standing.
3.02	The Company shall deduct, as a condition of each employee’s continued employment, a sum equivalent to Union dues prorated to conform with the bi-weekly pay system as follows:
3.03	Union dues for each employee shall be 1.3% (as per the United Steelworkers of America Constitution).
3.04	The total earnings per hour of each employee shall be calculated by dividing the total earnings in the reference period by the total number of hours in the reference period. The total number of hours shall be deemed to include actual hours worked plus hours of paid vacation plus hours of unworked statutory holidays.
3.05	Total earnings for the purpose of calculating Union dues shall be deemed to include base rate earnings and all premiums (if any) including shift premiums, weekend premiums, incentive bonus pay, vacation pay, statutory holiday pay, overtime pay, COLA earnings, call-in and reporting pay,
3
etc.,, but shall not include any Workers Compensation payments or payments under any benevolent, sickness or accident plans.
3.06	The reference period shall be the two (2) week pay period immediately prior to the pay day on which the dues are deducted. Dues shall be deducted each pay period and remitted to Leo Gerard (or his successor), International Treasurer of the United Steelworkers of America. Until further notice from the Union, all cheques will be forwarded to the United Steelworkers of America, PO. Box 1400, Postal Station “A” Vancouver, B.C. V6C 2P7 on the employee pay day or as soon thereafter as is reasonably possible. An itemized statement listing all the employees, including their social insurance numbers and occupations of new employees, indicating the amount of dues deducted from each, will be submitted with the Union dues remittance, and a copy of the itemized statement will be provided to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union.
3.07	In the event an employee does not work at least twenty (20) hours or be paid for at least twenty (20) hours for vacation or unworked statutory holidays in the reference period, then no dues will be deducted. Also, no dues will be deducted if at the time of preparation of the pay cheque there are insufficient funds owing to the employee concerned except to the extent that such funds are owing to the employee.
3.08	The foregoing deduction will commence, in the case of each employee who is in the employment of the Company, with the effective date of this Agreement and, in the case of each employee entering the employment of the Company subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement, with the calendar month in which his first pay cheque from the Company is received by him. A new employee commencing work in the first half of the month will pay dues for that month. A new employee commencing work in the second
4
half of the month will not pay dues for that month.
3.09	As early as possible in each calendar year, and no later than February 15, the Company shall provide the Local with an individual statement listing the total of Union dues (or equivalent) deducted from the pay of each employee during the previous calendar year and paid to the Union in accordance with this Article. Appropriate forms will be supplied by the Union no later than September 15th of the preceding year.
3.10	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company
harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company in complying with the provisions of Article 3.01 through to 3.10.	"
- .*3 / J
3.11	Contracting Out	/ f
(a)	The Company and the Union agree that contracting out of work performed by employees in the bargaining unit will not be done for the purpose of laying off, demoting, terminating, or deferring the recall of bargaining unit employees.
(b)	Thirty (30) days prior to any planned contracting work on Company premises, the Company will notify the Union of the name of the contractor, the number of contractor's employees, the reasons for contracting out the work, and the nature of the work and the estimated time the contractor will be on the property. Within thirty (30) days of the expiration of the contracting work, the Company will submit to the Union the actual number of man hours to complete the job.
3.12	Within thirty (30) days of the execution of the Collective Agreement the Company and the Union will review on a monthly basis contracting out practises.
When reviewing contracting out practices the terms of reference shall be:
(i)	To establish a list of work that has historically been contracted out.
5
(ii)	To review contracted work, with a view to what other options may have been possible and practicable, with the goal of replacing contractors with bargaining unit employees to make the operation more economically viable.
(iii)	To preview work expected to be contracted out and explore possible alternatives taking into consideration the efficiency of the operation, the urgency of the work to be performed and the availability of the equipment, skills and manpower.
(iv)	To make recommendations to the parties respecting contracting of work as set out in (ii) and (iii) above.
3.13	The Company agrees that where it will contract out work normally performed by the bargaining unit on Company premises and there are employees on lay-off who, in the opinion of the Company, are qualified to perform a portion of that contract, even though the whole contract could not be performed by bargaining unit employees because the Company does not have the skills, equipment and facilities to do so, the Company will recall qualified laid-off employees to perform the portion of the work for which they are qualified where it is practicable to do so.
Prior to this application, the parties agree to meet and discuss all practical areas of concern that may affect the situation of the laid-off employees or the viability to the operation.
3.14	The job steward in the area affected will be notified when contractors are on the property. As well, the Company will maintain up-to-date log books of all contractors and the specific work that is being performed. These log books will be made available to any steward in the work area.
3.15	When contractors are on the property, the Company will submit to the Union, a payment as outlined below:
(a) the equivalent of 1.5 hours @ pay grade 1 for each of the contractor's employees who is on the property between 1
6
and 10 working days in a one month period;
(b) the equivalent of an additional hour @ pay grade 1 for each of the contractor’s employees who is on the property for more than 10 working days in a one month period.
ARTICLE 4:
NO STRIKES. NO LOCKOUTS
4.01	The Union agrees that neither the Union nor its officers nor representatives, nor its members, nor the employees, shall in any way authorize, encourage or participate in any strike, work stoppage, walk-out, slow-down or any act of similar nature which would in any vyay interfere with, limit or impede the operations of the Company during the term of this Agreement.
4.02	The Company agrees that there shall be no lockout of employees during the term of this Agreement. In the event the Company should lockout its employees in violation of this Agreement, the Union shall have the right to seek all remedies that it may be entitled to by law.
ARTICLE 5:
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
5.01
(a)	The parties agree that it is desirable that any complaints or grievances should be adjusted as quickly as possible. Employees are therefore encouraged to try to settle their complaints with their supervisor as soon after they originate as possible. Should a dispute arise between the company and an employee regarding the application, operation, interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the dispute in the following manner:
(b)	The Company shall meet any of it's employees and/or
7
their representatives, for the purpose of discussing grievances or complaints with the object of reaching a satisfactory solution. In the event of any meeting between any employee(s) and Company representatives that occurs during working hours such employee(s) shall be paid their regular hourly rate. In the event of any meeting with the Company which includes the Grievance Chairman that occurs outside regular working hours, he shall be paid at his regular straight time hourly rate. The parties agree to have a regard for the efficiency of the operation in scheduling these meetings in both their frequency and length.
(c)	Prior to the submission of a grievance, it is normally expected that the employee will meet with his supervisor and attempt to resolve the matter.
5.02
Stepl: Within seven (7) days after the alleged grievance(s) has arisen, the employee and the Steward of his choice from the immediate area may present the grievance in writing to his Supervisor. The Supervisor, together with other management representatives, will discuss the matter with the employee and the Steward.
The Supervisor will give his decision in writing within seven (7) days from the time the dispute was presented to him in writing. Failing a satisfactory settlement then:
Step 2: Within seven (7) days of receipt of the Step 1 written decision the grievance may be presented in writing to the General Foreman or his designate where applicable. The General Foreman accompanied by other management representatives will discuss the matter with the employee, the Steward and a member of the Grievance Committee.
The General Foreman will give his decision in writing within seven (7) days from the time the dispute was presented to him in writing. Failing a satisfactory settlement then:
Step 3: Within seven (7) days of the receipt of the Step 2
8
written decision the grievance may be presented in writing to the Department Superintendent or his designate. The Department Superintendent accompanied by other management representatives will discuss the matter with the employee, the Steward and Grievance Committee members.
The Department Superintendent will give his decision in writing within seven (7) days from the time the dispute was presented to him in writing. Failing a satisfactory settlement the grievance may be referred to arbitration within thirty (30) calendar days.
Where Step 3 has been exhausted and prior to the matter being referred to arbitration the Local Union President and the Grievance Chairman or their designates and the Company representatives may without prejudice attempt to resolve the matter.
The Parties are to establish at the end of each Step of the procedure who has the onus to reply and by what time and date the reply is to be received. The time limits herein defined apply to both the Union and the Company.
5.03	Grievances, alleging violations which directly involve more than one employee and which are sufficiently common in nature that they may be conveniently dealt with together, may be submitted directly at Step 2 as one grievance, signed by the employees concerned within seven (7) days of the event or circumstance upon which it is based.
5.04	Any difference, arising between the Union and the Company as to the application, interpretation or administration of the Agreement, or as to whether it is arbitrable, may be submitted in writing by either Party to the other at Step 3, within seven (7) days of the event or circumstances upon which it is based.
5.05	In determining the time within which any Step is to be taken under the foregoing provisions of this Article, Saturdays, Sundays and the recognized statutory holidays
9
shall be excluded. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended in writing by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
If a grievance is not referred to arbitration within the thirty (30) day period referred to in Step 3, the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. The abandonment of a grievance under this Article shall not prejudice future cases of a similar nature.
If the Company does not hear a grievance or make its answer or decision in writing at any Step of the grievance procedure within the time limits specified herein, the Union will contact the Department Superintendent or designate who will ensure scheduling of a meeting without delay to attempt to resolve the grievance.
5.06	Answers shall be given in writing to the Union on a first, second and third stage grievance and shall be sent to the grievor, the Union Steward involved and the Union office.
5.07	If it is necessary for a Steward to take time off during his working hours to investigate or attempt to settle a grievance in his area, he shall not leave his work without first advising and receiving approval from his foreman. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
5.08	The parties may by mutual agreement following completion of Step 3 and prior to the appointment of a single arbitrator or an Arbitration Board, refer the matter to an investigating officer pursuant to Section 103 of the Labour Relations Code in the following manner:
Where a difference arises between the parties relating to the dismissal, discipline, or suspension of an employee, or to the interpretation, application, operation or alleged violation of this agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable:
10
the investigating officer shall:
a)	investigate the difference;
b)	define the issue in the difference;
c)	make a final and binding decision on the issue.
Investigating officers as referred to in this clause will be Merv Chertkow, and Vince Ready, to be used in that order, or a substitute mutually agreed to by the parties in the event the officers referred to above are not available
6.01	Either party must within thirty (30) calendar days upon the completion of Step 3 of the grievance procedure outlined in Article 5, notify the other party in writing of its desire to submit to arbitration an unsettled grievance relating to the application, operation, interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement including any question as to whether the matter is arbitrable.
(a)	Should the parties mutually agree to submit the matter to a single arbitrator, then within seven (7) days following such notice, either party will notify an arbitrator selected from the following list:
Stephen Kelleher
or such other person as the parties mutually agree.
If none of the arbitrators listed above are available, an appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour of the Province of B.C. upon request of either party.
(b)	Failing mutual agreement to refer the matter to a single arbitrator then, within ten (10) days the parties agree to appoint their respective nominees to the Board of Arbitration
ARTICLE 6: ARBITRATION
6.02
Allan H. Hope Colin Taylor
11
and the nominees shall select an arbitrator from the list in
6.02	(a).
6.03	The Arbitrator or Arbitration Board shall hear and determine the difference or allegation and shall within a maximum of thirty (30) days following arbitration render a decision.
6.04	The parties shall jointly bear the costs of the arbitrator. Each of the parties shall bear the expenses of the witnesses called by it. No costs of arbitration shall be awarded against either party.
6.05	Arbitration procedure shall be expedited by the parties.
6.06	At arbitration, the parties may have the assistance of the employee(s) concerned and any necessary witnesses. All reasonable arrangements shall be made to permit the conferring parties access to the property to view the operations in question and to confer with the necessarywitnesses.
6.07	An Arbitrator or Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, or alter, modify or amend any part of the provisions.
6.08	Arbitration shall be heard in Fort St. John, Tumbler Ridge, or at such other place as the Parties shall mutually agree upon in writing.
ARTICLE 7:
DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
7.01	If an employee alleges he has been suspended or discharged without just cause, he shall submit his grievance at Step 3 within 5 days.
7.02
(a)	Disciplinary letters shall be subject to the grievance
12
procedure and will be issued within 384 hours (16 days) from the time the employee has been formally advised of the disciplinary action. The letter will contain the reasons for discipline.
With the exception of cases of discharge, and cases where the failure to comply is caused by the employee's absence or by his changing departments, a failure to issue the letter of discipline within the specified time frame will result in the issue being considered settled with no discipline being imposed.
(b)	A copy of each disciplinary letter will be sent to the Union office within 24 hours of the date upon which the employee received the letter.
7.03
(a)	A steward will be present when an employee is to be disciplined, suspended or formally counselled.
(b)	A steward and either the Grievance Committee Chairman or Local President (or their designates) will be present when an employee is to be discharged.
(c)	Formal investigative meetings with an employee for an infraction in which discharge is being contemplated will be conducted in the presence of a shop steward and a member of the grievance committee.
(d)	Formal investigative meetings with an employee for an infraction in which discharge is not being contemplated will be conducted in the presence of a steward.
(e)	If a grievance committee member is not available in a timely manner for the meeting in (c) above, the meeting may be conducted in his absence.
7.04	Upon request an employee will be shown his disciplinary or attendance record at a time mutually agreed upon. Copies of these records will be made available at the employee’s request.
13
7.05
(a)	Copies of all disciplinary action and counselling letters will be provided to the Union.
(b)	Counselling letters will be removed one (1) year from the date of issue provided that during this one (1) year period the employee does not incur further counselling or discipline for similar reasons.
(c)	An employee who has been discipline free for/vo (2) years will have all discipline removed from his file.
7.06	An employee who fails to return to work from an authorized absence may be disciplined up to and including discharge unless his reason for failure to return is acceptable to the Company.
ARTICLE 8:
OFFICERS. COMMITTEES AND STEWARDS
8.01	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of all officers, committeemen, safety representatives and stewards and of any changes in the same. The Company shall not be required to recognize them until so notified.
8.02	The Union may appoint up to one steward and one safety representative for each first line supervisor. Additionally, the union may appoint an alternate for each of the above to act in the absence of the regular steward or safety representative.
8.03	The Union officers, committee people, stewards, and safety representatives shall notify their supervisors and they shall arrange a mutually satisfactory time to leave their work to attend to their duties as outlined in the Agreement. Upon request arrangements will be made for transportation and for the use of a phone in private.
14
8.04	The Company will provide the Union with the names and titles of first line supervisors on a monthly basis.
8.05	The Company shall provide designated separate, locked notice boards for the exclusive use of the union, where officers of the union shall post notices of any Union business.
8.06	Supervisors will during the first shift introduce new
crew members to their job steward and Union safety repre- ^ sentative.	jL
8.07	The Company and the Union agree that there will f be no discrimination, intimidation, favoritism or harassment against any employee or management representative. Further, discrimination will not be allowed because of sex, race, colour, national origin, religious creed, marital status, political affiliation, Union membership or non-membership, or because the employee or management representative has exercised or failed to exercise any right specifically provided for under this Agreement.
8.08	The Company will forward to the Union an amount equivalent to three hundred and sixty (360) hours per month at wage classification one (1) to pay for time lost by employees delegated by the Union to conduct union business as provided for in Articles 15.01 (c) and (d).
Beginning January 1st, 1997, to ensure a balanced reflection of employment levels and monthly payments to the Union under this clause, the number of hours forwarded to the Union will be decreased by thirty (30) hours for each incremental drop of fifty (50) employees. Such calculation will be done on a monthly basis and will continue to a minimum monthly payment of (72) hours per month. All payments under this clause are contingent upon the total man hours worked by bargaining unit employees being 1000 hours or greater in a month.
15
"?A	J
ARTICLE 9: SENIORITY
9.01	The parties recognize that job opportunity and security shall increase in proportion to length of service. It is therefore agreed that in all cases of vacancy, promotion, demotion, transfer between jobs, training'opportunities, decrease in the working force and recall after lay-off, senioi) qualified employees shall be entitled to preference in accor-j dance with the specific provisions of this agreement.
9.02	Employees who have not completed three hundred and twenty (320) regularly scheduled hours worked within a six (6) month period shall be considered probationary employees and shall have no seniority rights. Such employees shall have the right to grieve in respect to any matter other than his seniority. Upon completion of the probationary period, an employee shall acquire seniority and his name shall be entered on the seniority list according to his most recent hiring date. For the purpose of this clause the probationary period shall commence on the first day of employment.
9.03	There shall be two (2) types of seniority; namely Company and Department.
(a)	The Company seniority means the length of time of his service with the Company since his last hiring by the Company.
(b)	Department seniority shall mean the length of an employees' service within the department.
(c)	Departments for the term of definition shall be, but not limited to the following:
(i)	Mine Operations
(ii)	Mine Maintenance
(iii)	Plant Operations
(iv)	Plant Maintenance
(v)	Road Crew
(vi)	Warehouse
16
In the event a new department is created, the manning of the new department will be made within the provisions of this Agreement.
Employees shall accumulate seniority in one department only, except as provided for elsewhere in the Agreement.
(d)	If the transfer of an employee is required by the Company, from one Department to another, for the efficient conduct of operations, the employee's seniority in the new Department shall be deemed to be equal to that which he previously held in the former Department. On being transferred at the employee's request or because of considerations of health, such employee shall have no department seniority on entering the new Department.
9.04	Employees who have acquired seniority shall have that seniority maintained and accumulated during:
(a)	Absence due to occupational accident while the employee is performing work for the Company.
(b)	The period of time that an employee is absent and is in receipt of weekly indemnity and/or long term disability benefits (max. 104 weeks).
(c)	Authorized absence under Article 15.
(d)	Lockouts.
cill
that seniority maintained but not accumulated during:
(a)	Absence due to lay-off not exceeding;
one (1) year where the employee has less thanwo
(i) one (2) years of seniority.
(ii)	two (2) years where the employee has two (2) or more years of seniority. Plus one additional month for each year of seniority, up to an additional six (6) months.
(b)	Strikes.
17
9.06	An employee who has acquired seniority shall have that seniority completely lost and his employment terminated if he:
(a)	Quits his employment with the Company.
(b)	Is discharged and not re-instated under the terms of this Collective Agreement.
(c)	Is laidoff for a period beyond that described in 9.05(a)
(i)	and (ii) above.
(d)	Is sent notice of recall by double registered mail to his last address of record with the Company and fails to report within fifteen (15) days of receipt of notice, unless he has contacted the Company and has received an extension to report. The extension will not be unreasonably withheld. A notice of re-call which has been returned as unclaimed or refused will be considered received. In the event of a disruption of mail service the Company and Union agree to meet to discuss alternate methods of recall. Illness substantiated by medical evidence will be considered as sufficient grounds to be granted an extension to report.
(e)	Accepts severance pay.
(f)	Accepts a salaried position
(g)	Is absent due to temporary illness or non-occupational accident beyond the period provided for in 9.04 (b).
9.07
(a)	The Company shall maintain up-to-date “Company” and “Departmental” seniority lists showing each employee's order of seniority with his name, payroll number, service date, and classification.
(b)	The seniority list shall be posted on all department bulletin boards every month and a copy shall be supplied to the Union office.
(c)	The seniority for employees hired on the same day
18
Heads as outlined below, who have acquired seniority shall be the last employees to be laid-off from the Company in case of lay-off, provided they can satisfactorily perform the available work:
President, Vice-President, Recording Secretary, Financial Secretary, Treasurer, Chairperson of the Grievance Committee, Co-Chairperson and Chief Stewards, Workers’ Compensation Committee Chairperson and CoChairperson, Safety, Health and Environment Committee Chairperson and Co-Chairperson(s),
Permanent Shutdown
9.09	In the case of a permanent lay-off or shutdown of the Company's operations resulting in the termination of employment, the Company will give:
(a)	Two (2) weeks notice in writing to the employee if his period of employment is less than one (1) year.
(b)	Three (3) weeks notice in writing to the employee if, his period of employment is one (1) year but less thar^ threey
(c)	Six (6) weeks notice in writing to the employe , ri-od of employment is three (3) years but less than five (5) years.
(d)	Eight (8) weeks notice in writing to the employee if his period of employment is five (5) years or greater.
Failing such notice, the Company shall pay, at an employees regular straight time rate of pay, for the number of days notice not given that the employee would normally be scheduled to work that is less than the required number of days notice.
Further, the Parties agree that in addition to the notice requirements outlined above, that in the case of a permanent lay-off after June 1st, 1995 resulting in the termination
(3) years.
<&' ' - 'O
19
of employment, provide a severance as follows:
art (i)	$800.00 for each completed year of active service,
jSy’after June 1 st, 1995 and $500.00 for each completed year / of service back to June 1st, 1986.
Effective the second year of the Collective Agreement $500.00 for each completed year of active service, back to June 1 st,1984.
Effective the third year of the Collective Agreement $500.00 for each completed year of active service back to June 1st, 1982.
\ For the purpose of this severance calculation active /service is defined only as time actually worked, authorized absence under Article 15, Workers’ Compensation, Weekly ^Indemnity and Long Term Disability (maximum 104 weeks).
*. t (ii) Employees shall be paid severance on the expira-’ tion of recall rights or upon termination of employment while on lay-off, at the employee's option.
(iii)	Upon payment of severance the employee shall lose all recall rights.
Procedures Governing Lay-offs and Lines of Progression
9.10
(a)	In the event of a reduction of employees resulting in a lay-off of eight (8) calendar days or less, the employee with the greatest departmental seniority in the classification required, from the crew who normally do the work, shall be required to work.
(b)	In the event of a reduction of employees resulting in a lay-off of at least nine (9) calendar days but less than fifteen (15) calendar days, the employee with the greatest departmental seniority in the classification required and in the work area affected will be retained provided he is qualified to do the work. For the purposes of this clause, work areas shall be defined as follows:
20
Mine Operations:	(i) MesaAA/olverine
(ii)	Shikano;
Mine Maintenance:	(i) In-Pit Field and Shop
(ii)	Main Shop
(iii)	Lower Shops and Field;
Warehouse:	(i) Main Shop Warehouse
(ii) Plantsite Warehouse;
Plant Maintenance:
Plant Operations:
Road Crew:
(c)	(i) In the event of a reduction of a classification in a
lay-off of fifteen (15) calendar days or more, or where an area of the operation permanently closes that does not result in lay-off, the employee with the least Company seniority will be reduced from the classification. An employee displaced from his classification may displace an employee in any other classification within the bargaining unit on the basis of Company seniority, provided he is qualified to do the job. The employee being displaced shall be the employee with the least Company seniority in that classification.
(ii) For the purposes of Article 9.10(c), qualified is deemed to mean:
(a)	classification was previously held within the Bargaining Unit, and is deemed still qualified to the standard set by the department for the position, or
(b)	the employee is qualified to the standards set by the department for the position, or
(c)	the employee has provided proof of previous experience in the position applied for and can become qualified to the standards set by the department within a familiarization period of up to one (1) shift cycle. Such proof of experience will not be required for labour positions.
21
(iii)	Employees displaced from their classification may displace other employees as outlined in (i) (ii) above, or elect to be laid-off from the Company.
(d)	The Company will provide the Union with a list of all employees on permanent lay-off status and a copy of all recall notices for those employees.	J j
9.11	/ n
(a)	(i) The Parties agree that where there is a crew
reduction, resulting in a change of classification which does not involve lay-off, senior qualified employees so reduced will be entitled to displace junior employees on the basis of departmental seniority.
(ii) Qualified employees displaced as a result of the exercise of a more senior employee's preference, may also elect to displace a more junior employee within their existing department on the basis of departmental seniority.
(iii) Employees who are unable to displace other employees will be assigned vacancies in order of departmental seniority.
(iv)	In all cases, the employee being displaced shall be the employee with the least departmental seniority in that classification.
(b)	Where there is a crew reduction of tradesmen resulting in a change of classification within his department which does not involve lay-off, the tradesman may displace, on the basis of Company seniority, the least senior employee in the same trade in another department. This clause only affects tradesmen where the same trade is practiced in more than one (1) department.
(c)	The Parties agree that for a crew reduction, which does not result in a reduction in classification the following will apply:
22
Reductions [Non-Trades)
(i)	Crew reductions will be done on the basis of department seniority in the classification affected amongst the employees in the work area affected.
(ii)	Where a transfer of crews is required, it will be done on the basis of department seniority from the crew to be reduced;
(iii)	In the event a crew reduction, which does not result in a reduction in classification, is required and is not addressed in (c) (i) and (ii) above, the Parties agree to meet to discuss the orderly transition while keeping the above in mind.
Reductions (Trades)
(c)	Prior to the implementation of this Article, the parties agree to meet to discuss this procedure.
The Parties agree that for a crew reduction, which does not result in a reduction of classification, the following will apply:
(i)	An employee(s) displaced from his work assignment area may elect to be assigned to a vacant position, or displace a more junior employee in any work assignment area, within his department.
(ii)	If the employee elects to displace a more junior employee in another work assignment area, then the displaced employee may fill a vacant position or elect to displace the most junior employee within the department.
(iii)	An employee displaced pursuant to (ii) above will be assigned to fill the vacant position.
(iv)	In all cases, the employee being displaced shall be the employee with the least departmental seniority in that classification.
(v)	Where a transfer of crews is required, it will be done on the basis of department seniority from the crew to be reduced.
23
(vi)	In the event a crew reduction, which does not result in a reduction in classification, is required and is not addressed in (d) above, the Parties agree to meet to discuss the orderly transition while keeping the above in mind.
9.12	Employees laid off will be recalled in the inverse order, provided they possess the qualifications to perform the available work.
It shall be the responsibility of employees who have been laid off and wish to be available for recall to keep the Employee Relations Department informed of their current mailing address.
9.13	The Parties will meet as far in advance as possible to discuss the orderly application of the provisions of Article 9 with respect to lay-offs, closure of a work area(s) and crew reductions.
ARTICLE 10:
LINES OF PROGRESSION/JOB POSTINGS/TRADES-POSTING SYSTEM
10.01
(a)	The following departments shall have Lines of Progression:
(i)	Mine Operations
(ii)	Mine Maintenance
(iii)	Plant Operations
(iv)	Road Crew
(b)	The following departments will have a Trades-Posting Procedure:
(i)	Mine Maintenance
(ii)	Plant Maintenance
(iii)	Warehouse
(c)	Other vacancies will be subject to the provisions as
24
outlined in this Agreement.
Lines of Progression:
10.02
(a)	There will be two (2) types of Job Postings within a Lines of Progression.
(i)	Entry Level Job Postings
(ii)	Departmental Job Postings
(b)	The Company will not be required to post positions above jobs marked with a triangle in the Lines of -Progression Chart provided there is a qualified employee within that Line of Progression. Where a qualified employee in that Line of Progression is awarded the job, the Company will post the name and department seniority date of the employee who is awarded the job. If there are no qualified employees within that Line of Progression the Company will post the job in accordance with Article 10.06(d).
10.03
(a)	Permanent vacancies in a Line of Progression above the job defined with a triangle shall be filled by the qualified employee with the greatest department seniority in the job classification immediately below the vacant job.
(b)	Temporary vacancies in excess of one (1) shift shall be filled by the senior qualified employee on that shift in that Line of Progression. However, if the assignment is to a lower classification, the employee with the least department seniority on the shift, in that classification will be re-assigned.
(i)	In filling temporary vacancies in excess of one shift, the senior qualified employee on that shift in that line of progression shall be given preference. However, if the assignment is to a lower classification, the employee with the least department seniority on the shift, in that classification will be re-assigned.
(ii)	Should an employee be reassigned as in (b) (i)
25
above, he will at the time of reassignment make election as to what overtime list his name will appear, either his regular classification or the temporary position.
(iii)	Temporary vacancies will only be filled by an employee who is qualified. In the early stages of training, a trainee may only operate alone for short periods of time in exceptional circumstances when it has been determined by his supervisor that he can do so safely.
Trainees in the early stages of training will not be used as replacement operators during this period. Assignments of trainees to operate unsupervised must be consistent with the training requirements of the trainee.
Exceptions to the above may be made for the following classifications: Dozer/Grader, Loader, 245 Hoe, when trainees “3” and “2” are operating unsupervised the present practice will be observed.
(c)	Temporary vacancies or assignments of one* shift or less may be filled by any qualified person g \
10.04	-'T	^
(a)	Employees, except those in Trainee positions have the right to freeze themselves in the Line of Progression. Employees who exercise the right to freeze will sign a waiver form supplied by the Company and submit it to their foreman.
(b)	Employees who elect to freeze must remain frozen at least until the next employee in the Line of Progression has completed his training in the position that the frozen employee would normally have been trained on.
(c)	A copy of each employee's request to be frozen in the Lines of Progression will be forwarded to the Union office.
10.05
(a) In the event an employee in a Trainee Position who has not completed all the prescribed training hours elects
26
not to advance in a Line of Progression, or is unsuccessful in completing the training, he will be removed from further training.
(b) Employees who bid on positions that result in a change of classification and are unsuccessful in either completing the training or in performing the duties for the new classification will be returned to their former position if it remains vacant. Failing such a vacancy, the employee will be re-assigned to a vacant position for which he is qualified in his new department, and failing that, to a vacant position for which he is qualified elsewhere in the Comnanv
(a)	Notice of all job vacancies that require posting shall be made known on all appropriate department notice boards and shall be posted for eight (8) calendar days. Copies of all job postings will be forwarded to the Union office.
(b)	In awarding Job Postings to Entry Level Jobs (defined by a rectangle), the employee with the greatest Company seniority shall be awarded the job provided he possesses the ability to undertake the training. If there are no successful applicants the Company may recruit.
(c)	(i) In awarding Departmental Job Postings, (defined by a triangle) the employee with the greatest Departmental seniority shall be awarded the job provided he possesses the ability to undertake the training.
(ii) Failing successful applicants based on Departmental seniority, the Company will repost the job and award it to the employee with the greatest Company seniority provided he possesses the ability to undertake the training. If there are no successful applicants, the Company may recruit.
(d)	In awarding Departmental job postings above jobs
10.06
Job Postings:
27
marked with a triangle (except trainees), the Company shall consider the following factors:
(i)	Departmental seniority of each employee.
(ii)	Only qualified applicants will be considered.
The determining factor between two qualified applicants shall be seniority. Failing successful applicants within the department, the Company will consider other applicants based on Company seniority, the qualified applicants with the greatest Company seniority will be awarded the job. Failing successful applicants, the Company may recruit.
(e)	Within a further eight (8) calendar days the successful applicant’s name will be posted on all appropriate bulletin boards.
However, should the Company cancel a job posting, it will notify the Union of the reason for so doing in writing within ten (10) days.
(f)	(i) Every attempt shall be made to transfer an employee who is successful on a job posting within two (2) cycles of the posting being awarded, but except as outlined in (f) (ii) below, the transfer will be effected no later than four cycles of the date of the award. In any event he will receive the new rate of pay for the job awarded if it is higher than his current rate no later than two (2) cycles after the posting is awarded.
(ii) Should exceptional circumstances arise that would cause the Company undue hardship in transferring an employee within the time frame specified in (i) above, the company shall discuss the matter with the Union and the effected employee detailing the nature of the concern and providing an alternate transfer date.
(g)	If the posted job is in another department, the employee will accumulate seniority in the new department
28
from the date of the award, and will also accumulate seniority in his existing department until the date the transfer is effected.
29
10.07
(a)	Notices of all job vacancies shall be in the following form:
DATE POSTED:___________________________________________
POSTING #:_____________________________________________
The following vacancy(ies) in the______________________
Department for the job(s) of___________________________
Which is paid at the rate of $___________per hour.
This vacancy is currently on_______________________shift.
Applications will be deposited by the employee in locations provided for in each department.
The closing date for this posting is __________________
Applications must be signed by both the employee and his foreman.
30
10.07
(b)
INTERNAL VACANCY APPLICATION FORM
TO:__________________ DEPARTMENT
FROM:____________________EMPLOYEE NUMBER_______
I	WOULD LIKE TO BE CONSIDERED FOR THE VACANT POSITION
POSTED OF____________________________
POSTED ON____________,19_____IN THE
_________________________DEPARTMENT
POSTING#_________________.*
CREW
FIRST CHOICE ________ IF YOU HAVE NO CREW
SECOND CHOICE _________ PREFERENCEPLEASE
THIRD CHOICE ________ INDICATE:
FOURTH CHOICE __
THE APPLICANT WILL ONLY BE CONSIDERED FOR CHOICES LISTED
COMMENTS: _______________________________________
CURRENT DEPARTMENT AND CREW: __________________
HOME PHONE NUMBER: ____________________________
EMPLOYEE SIGNATURE: ________________DATE:______
FOREMAN SIGNATURE:__________________DATE:______
DISTRIBUTION: WHITE-DEPARTMENT CANARY-EMPLOYEE
31
(c) Internal vacancy application forms will be in duplicate; signed by both the foreman and the employee, with one copy going to the department and one to the employee.
10.08	An employee who applied for a Job Posting and is the successful applicant must accept the position.
10.09	An employee is not eligible to bid on a vacancy within his existing department and classification except as specifically provided for elsewhere in this agreement.
10.10
(a)	An employee may make application in anticipation of up to two (2) job vacancies, (in order of preference), that may occur while he is absent on vacation or on approved leave of absence of two work cycles or less. Such application must be made prior to the commencement of the leave or vacation period and shall be effective for that time period only. Should two (2) job vacancies for which the employee has so applied become vacant, he must accept the first for which he is qualified that becomes vacant.
(b)	An employee that is absent because of Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation may apply for any job vacancy that he is eligible for. If the employee is awarded the position he must be able to return to work within two (2) cycles of the posting being awarded.
10.11	A promotion or demotion is any change in classification.
10.12
(a)	Employees who hire into one department will not be eligible to bid on vacancies outside their department for a nine (9) month period, with the exception of employees hired at the base rate, who may post on jobs outside their department above the base rate after six (6) months.
(b)	An employee accepting a job outside his existing department must remain in the new department for a period
32
of nine (9) months before applying for a job posting in any other department.
(c)	Notwithstanding, (a) and (b) above, employees will be eligible to bid on apprenticeship postings.
Trades-Postina System For Mine. Plant Maintenance & Warehouse Departments
10.13
(a)	The parties recognize the desire of tradesmen to change work assignment areas from time to time and agree that the trades-posting system will serve to channel such requests.
(b)	Where it is considered necessary to fill a permanent vacancy within a work assignment area notice of such vacancy will be posted for eight (8) calendar days on all bulletin boards. Copies of all job postings and awarded vacancies will be forwarded to the Union office.
(c)	Within a further eight (8) calendar days the successful applicant’s name will be posted on all bulletin boards. However, should the Company cancel a job posting, it will notify the Union of the reason for so doing in writing within ten (10) days. Selections shall be made based on the requirements of the Company, the department seniority and qualifications of the applicants. Where qualifications are relatively equal then the determining factor will be seniority. Failing a successful applicant, from within the department the Company will refer to the permanent posting list and selections will be made based first on Departmental, and then Company seniority of those employees on the list at the time of the vacancy.
Where a demonstrable difference in qualifications is shown by the Company the employee who is by-passed in favour of an employee with less seniority to fill the vacant position shall be notified in writing as to the reasons he was not accepted within one week of the job being awarded.
33
(d)	The person transferred to fill a permanent vacancy in a work assignment area shall not be entitled to change his work assignment area for a period of nine (9) months after the posting being awarded.
(e)	Where it is considered necessary to fill a vacancy for a person who has transferred to another work assignment area, then selection for his replacement will also be made in accordance with items (b) and (c) above.
(f)	No more than 3 persons within either the Mine Maintenance, Plant Maintenance or Warehouse Departments may change work assignment areas as a result of an initial vacancy; then the Company may recruit.
(g)	Should the successful applicant be a Maintenance Department employee, and a permanent vacancy is created in the other Maintenance Department, it will be filled in accordance with (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f).
(h)	The Company will not be required to pay overtime rates for transfers in work assignment areas or within departments where the reasons for the transfer is a result of the exercise of the employee's preference.
(i)	In instances where a tradesman is given special training, then that person will not be entitled to post in accordance with the trade-posting system for a period of six (6) months after completion of that training.
(j)	Tradesmen will not be considered for vacancies until completion of their probationary period. Likewise, an apprentice will only be considered for vacancies upon successful completion of his apprenticeship.
(k)	An employee who applied for a trade posting and is the successful candidate must accept the position.
(l)	An employee may make application in anticipation of up to two (2) job vacancies, (in order of preference), that may occur while he is absent on vacation or on approved leave of
34
absence of two work cycles or less. Such application must be made prior to the commencement of the leave or vacation period and shall be effective for that time period only. Should two (2) job vacancies for which the employee has so applied become vacant, he must accept the first for which he is qualified that becomes vacant.
(m)	A promotion or demotion is any change in classification.
(n)	(i) Tradesmen who hire into one department will not be eligible to bid on vacancies outside their department for a nine (9) month period.
(ii)	An employee accepting a job outside his existing department must remain in the new department for a nine (9) month period before applying for a job posting in any other department.
(iii)	Notwithstanding, (i) and (ii) above, employees will be eligible to bid on apprenticeship postings.
(o)	(i) Every attempt shall be made to transfer an employee who is successful on a job posting within two (2) cycles of the posting being awarded, but except as outlined in (ii) below, the transfer will be effected no later than four (4) cycles of the date of the award. In any event he will receive the new rate of pay for the job awarded if it is higher than his current rate no later than two (2) cycles after the posting is awarded.
(ii) Should exceptional circumstances arise that would cause the Company undue hardship in transferring an employee within the time frame specified in (i) above, the Company shall discuss the matter with the Union and the effected employee detailing the nature of the concern and providing an alternate transfer date.
(p)	(i) Notice of job vacancies shall be as Article 10.07(a) and 10.07(b).
(ii) Notwithstanding 10:09, in the case of Department 35
Trades-Postings, all tradesmen in a department will be eligible to bid on trades postings within their current department with the exception of postings within their current work assignment area.
(q)	Trades-Posting application forms will be in duplicate; signed by both the foreman and the employee, with one copy going to the department and one to the employee.
(r)	The Company recognizes the Union’s concerns regarding the defining of work assignment areas for the purpose of the Trades-Posting Procedure and agrees to the attached initial list of work assignment areas. The Company reserves the ability to amend these areas and to meet with the Union to discuss these areas, changes to them and to take into consideration the Union's concerns.
10.14	Employees requesting crew transfers within their department and classification must do so in writing. Such requests will only be considered for these employees wishing to transfer within the same work assignment area and between identical shift patterns. Such requests will not be unreasonably denied. The Company will not be required to pay overtime rates for the exercise of the employees' preference.
10.15	Should a dispute arise on a job posting award, the Company will send a list of all applicants for that job vacancy to the Union.
10.16	Permanent postings for the following positions will be placed on all appropriate notice boards:
Mine Operations:	Haul Truck*
Plant Operations:
Road Crew:
Warehouse:
Mine/Plant Maintenance:
Labourer*
Labourer*
Labourer*
Labourer*
Electrician
Heavy Duty Mechanic
36
Welder
Labourer*
Lineman Millwright Machinist Gas Fitter Sprinkler Fitter
Employees interested in being considered for openings in any of these positions should submit an internal vacancy request form as per Article 10.07
Vacant positions denoted above by an asterisk will be filled by the employee with the greatest Company seniority on the list at the time of the vacancy, provided he possesses the ability to undertake the training. Failing a successful applicant the Company may recruit.
Vacancies for the other positions will be awarded to the qualified employee having the greatest departmental seniority within the same department as the vacancy at the time of the vacancy. Failing a successful applicant, the position will be awarded to the qualified employee with the greatest Company seniority on the list at the time of the vacancy. Failing a successful applicant, the Company may recruit.
* on Company seniority others on department 1st and Company seniority second.
ARTICLE 11:
HOURS OF WORK
11.01 This article is intended to define the normal hours of work and shall not be construed as guarantee of pay or of hours of work per day or per week, or of days of work per week.
11.02
(a)	The term “work week” means that period of time com-
37
mencing with the start of day shift on Monday and terminating (168) hours thereafter.
(b)	The term “work day” means that period ofxtime commencing at the start of day shift and terminating twenty-four (24) hours thereafter.
11.03	At its discretion, the Company may from time to time initiate, maintain or discontinue to conduct, all or any part of its operations on a multiple shift and/or multiple continuous shift basis, subject to the pertinent statutes and regulations of the Province of British Columbia.
Prior to introducing a shift schedule outside of those referred to in 11.04 the Company will meet with the Union to discuss the new schedule, the impact it will have on employees and consider alternatives that may arise from these discussions.
11.04	The Company may 'schedule any operation, employ-
ee or group of employees at other times because of emergencies, break-downs, preparation for start-up of work and efficiency of the operation. The normal hours of work for employees shall be based on one of the following sell d-ules:	Vf-i
(a)	Eight (8) hours per day five (5) days per we
(b)	Ten (10) hours per day four (4) days per week.
(c)	Twelve (12) hours per day based on a work cycle which is eight (8) consecutive weeks (four (4) shifts on, four (4) shifts off) averaging forty-two (42) hours per week.
(d)	Normal shift starting times will be as follows:
Twelve Hour Shifts:
Day Shift	7:00	a.m.
Night Shift	7:00	p.m.
Ten Hour Shifts:
Day Shift	7:00	a.m.
38
Eight Hour Shifts:
Day Shift
8:00 a.m.
These starting times may be varied up to one hour on either side of these times for experimentation purposes or to meet operational requirements.
11.05	Employees will commence their shift at the designated starting time and work place and shall cease at The designated stopping time and place.
11.06	Eight-hour and ten-hour shift employees will have a lunch break of twenty (20) minutes, designated by the Company during the period of the fourth and fifth hours of the shift. They will have coffee breaks, at the work place, of fifteen (15) minutes each, designated by the Company during the periods of the second and third hours and the sixth and seventh hours of the shift.
11.07	Twelve-hour shift employees will have a lunch break of thirty (30) minutes designated by the Company during the period of the fourth and fifth hours of the shift and the seventh and eight hours of the shift.
Twelve-hour shift employees will have a lunch break of thirty (30) minutes designated by the Company during the period of the fifth and sixth hours of the shift. They will have coffee breaks, at the workplace, of fifteen (15) minutes each, designated by the Company during the periods of the third and fourth hours and the eighth and ninth hours of the shift.
The selection of which system of breaks is most suitable for each area of the Operation will. be at the discretion of the Company.
11.08	With respect to the lunch break provided in Sections
11.06	and 11.07, the employees shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of service but
Paid Work Breaks
OR
39
shall not be required to do any work which can reasonably be postpo ed to the end of their lunch break.
ARTICLE 12:
OVERTIME AND SPECIAL PAY
12.01	Overtime will be voluntary provided that operating requirements are met.
12.02	An employee’s working time shall be calculated to the one quarter (1/4) hour at which he is directed to stop work, or, if he is directed to stop work between one quarter (1/4) hours, to the one quarter (1/4) hour next following the time he is directed to stop work.
12.03	Opportunities for overtime will be distributed as equitably as is practicable among the employees in the Department and in the classification who normally perform the work in the area for which overtime is required. A record of overtime opportunities will be posted in each department.
12.04
(a)	An employee working overtime for a period in excess of two (2) hours beyond the end of his normal shift shall be entitled to a hot meal and choice of beverage during the period of such overtime. An additional meal shall be provided for each additional four (4) hours of continuous overtime worked.
(b) Employees may opt to accept a six ($6) dollar credit
in lieu of an overtime meal
12.05
(a)	An employee called out to work during other than his regular hours will be paid the applicable overtime rate for actual hours worked, £v fauf (4) hours at his regular rate, whichever is greater.	f J
(b)	Maintenance employees called out will not be required to perform work other than that for which they were called out.
40
lar or overtime shift, and who has not been notified not to report to work and is sent home because no work of any kind is available he shall be paid an amount equal to two (2) hours pay at his straight time hourly wage rate. Employees who are sent home after the designated shift start time shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay, at their straight time hourly wage rate.
12.06	The Company shall give an employee forty-eight (48) hours notice of a change in his regular shift. Where such notice is not given, the employee shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate for regular hours worked on the first shift following the change. This provision shall not apply to a new employee's initial assignment to a regular shift.
The provisions of this Section shall not apply to a change requested by an employee for personal reasons. No employee shall be allowed to change shifts under any circumstances without first receiving the approval of his immediate Supervisor.
12.07	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime.
12.08
(a)	Eight Hour Shift
One and one-half (11/2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate shall be paid for:,
(i)	time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week;
(ii)	for the first eight (8) hours worked on scheduled rest days;
(iii)	time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a work day.
Two (2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
(i)	time worked in excess of ten (10) hours per day;
41
37/y g
(ii)	time worked in excess of forty-eight (48) hours per week;
(iii)	time worked in excess of eight (8) hours on scheduled rest days,.	3 7 CL —3?
(b)	Ten Hour Shift	\J
One and one-half (11/2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
(i)	time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a week;
(ii)	the first eight (8) hours worked on scheduled rest days.
Two (2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
(i)	time worked in excess often (10) hours in a work day;
(ii)	time worked in excess of forty-eight (48) hours per week;
(iii)	time worked in excess of eight (8) hours on scheduled rest days.
(c)	Twelve Hour Shift
One and one-half (11/2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
(i)	time worked in excess of forty-four (44) hours per week;
(ii)	for the first eight hours worked on scheduled rest days.
Two (2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate shall be paid for:
(i)	time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours per day;
(ii)	time worked in excess of forty-eight (48) hours per week.
12.09
(a)	An employee working at a higher paying job than his normal classification will receive the higher rate of pay for the
42
actual hours worked in that higher classification unless those hours are in excess of one-half of the scheduled hours of that shift, in which case the employee will receive the higher rate of pay for the entire scheduled shift. This provision will not apply to those employees receiving training in higher paying positions.
(b)	An employee temporarily assigned to work in a lower classification will be paid at his regular rate of pay.
(c)	Employees working in a higher classification on his last shift prior to a Statutory Holiday not worked, will receive the higher rate for Statutory Holiday Pay, provided that the employee works in the higher classification on his first shift after the Statutory Holiday.
12.10	Shift and Weekend Premiums
Employees working other than day shift shall be paid&-the following premiums per hour, in addition to their regular/ rate:	J S .
Twelve Hour Shift Schedule
7 aoo{?
Night Shift - 90 cents per hour
12.11	Employees working on regular schedule shift on/
Saturdays and Sundays shall be paid a premium of ope dol-^ lar and sixty-five cents ($1.65) per hour. 43--	IbJ
12.12	The premiums referred to in Sections^. 10 and 12.11 will not apply when overtime or other premium pay is being paid.
12.13	An employee who is required to work before his regular starting time shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate.
ARTICLE 13:
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
13.01
(a) An employee shall receive Statutory Holiday pay at his
43
regular hourly rate for each of the following Statutory Holidays, provided he has complied with the provisions of Article 13.04, in accordance with the payment schedule outlined herein:
New Year’s Day	Good Friday
CanadaDay	Remembrance Day
Thanksgiving	Day	B. C. Day
/ P, 0 Boxing Day	Victoria Day
Labour Day	Christmas Day
iS'3
Effective June 1st/86 an employee will be entitled to one Floating Holiday, for each six months of continuous service. Floating Holidays will be scheduled on an individual basis by mutual agreement between the employee and his supervisor and will not be unreasonably denied. Payment for Floating Holidays will be equal to the number of hours the employee would normally have worked on the day the Floater is taken.
(b)	An employee shall receive eight (8) hours Statutory Holiday allowance, except when an employee who is normally scheduled to work the Statutory Holiday is required by the Company to take the Statutory Holiday off. In this case, the employee will receive holiday allowance equal to the number of regular hours he normally would have worked.
(c)	(i) Employees may bank Floating Holidays up to a maximum of four (4);
(ii)	An employee will receive payment for any unused Floating Holidays upon the termination of his employment.
(iii)	An employee who is off on Workers' Compensation, Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability shall continue to accumulate up to the maximum of four (4) Floating Holidays.
(d)	Statutory Holidays will begin at the commencement of day shift on the day in question, and will conclude twenty-four (24) hours thereafter.
44
13.02	Employees who are requested to work on a Statutory Holiday and have complied with the provisions of 13.04, may elect to take an alternate day off without pay, up to a maximum of four (4) in any calendar year. These days must be scheduled by mutual agreement between the employee and his supervisor.
13.03
(a)	For work performed on a regularly scheduled shift on a Statutory Holiday, an employee shall be paid one and one-half (11/2) times his basic rate in addition to any amount payable under Article 13.01 (a). Such hours worked will not be used for the calculation of overtime.
(b)	An employee required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall be paid at two (2) times the employee’s hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of his normal shift schedule.
13.04
(a)	Except if he is on vacation or any authorized leave of absence, an employee shall not receive Statutory Holiday allowance if: '
(i)	He does not work his last regularly scheduled shift before or his first scheduled shift after the Statutory Holiday;
(ii)	He fails to work on a paid Statutory Holiday which he has been scheduled to work;
(iii)	The paid holiday falls, while he is on lay-off that exceeds twenty (20) calendar days;
(iv)	He has not completed his probationary period.
(b)	In applying Article 13.04 (a) (i), an employee shall be deemed to have worked the qualifying shifts if his absence is excused and/or otherwise authorized by the Company. However, payment of such holiday pay in case of excuse or authorized absence shall be limited to one holiday per absence.
45
In cases where the absence commences after the Remembrance Day Holiday and encompasses any or all of Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Years Day, the employee will be paid for up to three (3) Statutory Holidays.
(c)	An employee shall be entitled to an additional day off for each Statutory Holiday that falls within an employee's scheduled vacation period.
ARTICLE 14: VACATION
14.01	Employees will be entitled to annual vacation with pay, in accordance with the following schedule:
14.02
(a) An employee who is on the payroll on January 1, who has been continuously employed during the qualifying period and who has:
Length of Service
Less than one year preceding the vacation year
Hours
8 hours for each full month of employment preceding the vacation year. (Minimum 1 shift, maximum 80/84hours)
Payment
4% of earnings of
the previous year excluding taxable benefits
One year preceding the vacation year O I Two years preceding the vacation year °
8/1 0 Hour 12o u r Shifts Shifts
J
80, O^ 96 "3-	96 Ctl
Three years preceding	I
the vacation year O 3	120	3 *120
6.3%
Four years preceding
46
the vacation year	120	120
Five years preceding the vacation year O 5
Six years preceding ~ / the vacation year ° ^ Seven years preceding the vacation year
Eight years preceding . the vacation year <3 % Nine years preceding & the vacation year 0	>
136 3 "^1^2 144 3 "3 ^44
144	144
152 3 -Wv156
160 if J 168
Ten years or more / O preceding the vacation year 184
6.3%
6.8%
7.2%
7.2%
7.8%
8.0%
9.0%
(b) Upon return to work, an employee who had been absent for reasons of Workers' Compensation, Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability during the qualifying period (the previous year) may elect to take the appropriate percent, or his straight time hourly rate multiplied by the appropriate vacation hours for the duration of his vacation period.
14.03	For the purpose of calculating vacation entitlement, a vacation year shall be from January 1 st to December 31 st.
14.04	Employees shall be required to submit their preference for vacation time to their immediate Supervisor before January 31st in each year. Following this the Company will post approved vacation schedules, by department, no later than March 31 st.
14.05	Preference for vacation entitlement will be determined on the basis of departmental seniority of those employees whose applications for vacation are received by January 31st in each year. Vacation requests received after January 31st will be allocated, based on the dates they are received, on a first received, first scheduled basis.
47
The Company will grant vacations at times most preferable to employees, provided that such requests do not unreasonably interfere with the requirements of operations.
Except for instances of a planned vacation shutdown or where an employee exercises preference, vacation schedules, once approved, may only be changed by mutual consent.
14.06	Vacations must be taken during the year of its entitlement, and unless an employee has more than two shift cycles in his entitlement he may not break his vacation up into blocks of less than one cycle except where there is less thap o e cycle remaining in his entitlement.
s&/ ^ Employees with more than two shift cycles of vacation entitlement may elect to be paid for their vacation entitlement in excess of two shift cycles in lieu of taking vacation, and/or may choose to split the portion of his vacation entitlement in excess of two shift cycles into increments of his choosing.
14.07	An employee shall receive his vacation pay with his regular pay that immediately precedes the commencement of his vacation.
14.08	The Company will give three (3) months notice of a planned vacation shutdown. In the event an employee has scheduled and received approval for his vacation within the three (3) month period referred to above, the employee will have the option of taking his vacation as previously approved. The notice period begins on the date of the announcement.
ARTICLE 15: LEAVES OF ABSENCE
15.01
(a)	(i) An employee may be granted a leave of absence
for sufficient reason. Such requests will not be unreasonably
48
denied. Subject to such leave being granted, the employee(s) must use any banked Floating Holidays and days-in-lieu first.
(ii) A leave of absence form must be in writing and authorized by a management representative. All requests for leave of absence and floaters will be answered by the Company, in writing, within IO calendar days.
(b)	The Company may at its discretion, grant reasonable leave of absence to an employee for education or training purposes, conditional but not limited to the following:
(i) Such leave will not'unreasonably interfere with the efficiency of the operations;
(ii)
tions;

r training has application in the opera-
(iii)	“That the employee apply in writing at least one month in advance unless grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen;
(iv)	Leave is approved by a management representative.
(c)	(i) Employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend union conventions or do other similar work for the Union will be granted a leave of absence without for this purpose. Normally not more than five’'("5) 'employees will be granted leave at any one time. However, in situations of special training, such as shop steward or safety representative schools or seminars, leave without pay will be granted for up to an additional five (5) employees.
Not more than two (2) employees from any one shift in any one department may be on leave at any one time.
The Union agrees to give the Company one (1) weeks notice in writing and such leaves are not to exceed two (2) weeks nor interfere with operations. If there is diffi-
49
culty in granting the leave, the Department Superintendent will discuss with the Local President.
(ii) Employees granted such leave will have their wages maintained by the Company. The Company will submit this time to the Union for reimbursement at an amouj.equivalent to the Company’s cost, once per month, (e'hj)/^ V
(d)	The Company will grant not more than two (2) employees a leave of absence for one (1) year to work in an official capacity for the Local or International Union. This leave may be extended for additional one (1) year periods for local representatives and is limited to three (3) consecutive one (1) year extensions for International Representatives. During absence under this clause the employee’s seniority continues to accumulate. Upon expiry of the leave he will return to work at the job which he left and if unable to do so will exercise his rights as per the terms of this agreement. All benefits terminate while the employee is on leave as an International Representative. 63TV-, v
(e)	Upon written request and on reasonable notice from the Union and subject to the requirements of the operation, the Company may grant leaves of absence without pay to employees selected to do work for the Union such as negotiations.
(f)	Where spouses have made arrangements to take their vacations at the same time, and one is entitled to a vacation of greater duration, the Company will grant an unpaid leave of absence to the employee with the lesser vacation in the amount required to make up the difference to a maximum of five (5) shifts. The leave will be granted provided it does not require the Company to exceed the total number of employees allowed away for vacation purposes in any classification and on any one shift at any one time. Upon presentation of special circumstances, the Company agrees to give consideration to lengthening the period of leave.
50

,1
15.02
(a)	A Bereavement leave with pay of four (4) regularly scheduled shifts will be granted to an employee upon a death in his immediate family, provided the leave is taken within ten (10) calendar days of the death. Prior to taking such leave, the employee must advise his immediate supervisor which days he will be taking. “Immediate family” means the employee's spouse, child or step-child, foster child, parent or step-parent, brother, sister, parent-in-law, grandparent or grandchild. Common-law relationship shall be recognized as above.
(b)	An employee eligible for a bereavement leave which
occurs during his vacation shall be entitl	at por-
15.03	. An employee who is called for jury auty or is sub-
poenaed as a witness (but not in his own defence), will be paid an allowance equal to the difference between the payment, excluding travel allowance, he receives for each day of such service and his straight time pay for work which he would have been scheduled and which he would otherwise have performed on those days. £>	j sj y
15.04	A female employee may apply rTwritirg and shall be granted unpaid maternity leave to a maximum of 24 consecutive weeks (or less as may be requested by the employee) in accordance with the Employment Standards Act. Upon presentation of medical evidence the leave may be extended for a maximum of an additional six (6) weeks. Requests for additional leave under this clause will be considered on a case by case basis.
15.05	The Company recognizes that a request for Paternity leave is a legitimate reason for leave of absence. Leave will be granted as provided for in Article 15.01, for a duration mutually agreed upon between the employee and his supervisor.
tion of his vacation rescheduled.
ARTICLE 16:
SAFETY HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT
16.01	The Company and the Union agree that it is in the interest of all concerned to maintain high standards of Safety and Health at the Company's operations in order to prevent industrial injury and illness.
To this end, it is expected that all persons on Quintette Operating Corporation property shall co-operate to promote safe work conditions, practices, and enforcement of reasonable rules of conduct and safety on the property. In the interest of safety the Company will continue with sound safety education and training programs and will communicate and discuss substantial changes to the program with the Union and the Union agrees to develop and maintain internal education programs on accident prevention and health through such media as membership meetings, seminars and Union publications. If requested the Union agrees to assist the Company in the development of safety, educational and training programs. In order to meet our mutual objectives in matters related to safety and health, a Joint Safety, Health and Environment Committee will be established as outlined below.
16.02	A joint management/worker Safety, Health and Environment Committee shall be composed of an equal or greater number of worker representatives appointed by the Union, one of which shall be the Union Safety Committee Chairperson. There shall be at least one person from Process Plant, Mesa/Wolverine Pit Operations, Shikano Production/ Mine Maintenance, and Mine Maintenance Mesa/Wolverine, and not more than five (5) members appointed by the Company. For each regular member appointed, there may also be an alternate appointed to act in the absence of the regular member. In addition a representative from each party shall be designated as co-chairperson of the Committee. The function of the Committee shall be to recommend solutions to problems
52
relating to the promotion of safety, health and the environment on the job site. The Union and the Company shall notify each other in writing of the identity of their Joint Safety, Health and Environment Committee representatives. If the Company expands its operations with the introduction of a new pit or its equivalent, the parties will address whether the new operation requires an expansion of the Joint Safety, Health and Environment Committee in order to provide the Union with effective representation for the new operation. The employer will not unreasonably refuse to expand the Committee to meet the need for representation.
16.03
(a)	When conducting monthly Safety tours of each area of the operation, the Union Safety Chairman (or his alternate), and the Union Joint Safety Committee member from the area being inspected, together with the Company representatives, shall conduct the inspection. A crew safety representative will accompany the Joint Safety Committee members on the tour of their respective area.
(b)	Where the Joint Safety Committee makes an inspection and the majority find an unsafe condition, they shall immediately notify the supervisor for the area and advise him of the unsafe condition and discuss what is required to correct the problem. If agreement is not reached and corrective action is not taken, the Joint Safety Committee shall by majority decision have the authority to stop the work in question until the condition is rendered safe in the opinion of the majority of the Joint Safety Committee.
(c)	After completion of the inspection tour, those members of the Joint Committee conducting the tour in that area, with the safety representative, shall meet with the superintendent from that department, or his designate, to take up such Safety, Health and Environment matters as have arisen on the tour. The safety hazards noted in the minutes of the inspection will be corrected within thirty (30) days or by the date agreed by
53
the Joint Safety Committee. In addition all incident/accidents as referred to in 16.04(a) will be reviewed and further remedies or preventative action may be recommended.
(d)	Minutes of all meetings of the Joint Committee; reports of all inspections; or other investigations and recommendations made by the Joint Committee shall be prepared by the Company and provided to the Union within four (4) business days from the date the tour ended. If the Union disagrees with the accuracy of the minutes as prepared, it may set forth the reasons in writing and forward them to the Company. The disagreement shall then form part of the minutes. The minutes shall be jointly signed.
(e)	All regular members of the Joint Committee or their designates shall meet every two (2) months with the Operations Managers to review recommendations contained in inspection reports with special attention to repeat items and to discuss other matters pertaining to Safety and Health which may be raised.
Where agreement has been reached to implement recommendations contained in inspection reports, the department manager will give an estimated time for the recommendations to be implemented.
16.04
(a)	(i) The crew safety representative or his alternate will
be present and involved when there is an investigation of any accident or incident which caused, or had the potential to cause, significant equipment damage or personal injury requiring medical aid. The supervisor will make personal contact with the safety representative as soon as possible, from the time the incident or accident as referred to above occurs. The crew safety representative will be given access to a telephone and instructed to notify the area safety representative. If the area representative is at work, the investigating supervisor will assist the crew safety representative in contacting him.
54
Where a crew safety representative is not available from the immediate work area or crew the supervisor will make immediate arrangements to obtain a safety representative from another department.
In cases where a management representative more senior than those on shift participates in an accident or incident investigation, he will be responsible to notify the Union Safety Chairman or his designate immediately and inform him of the situation.
(ii)	The Safety, Health and Environment Committee CoChairpersons or their designates shall participate in the investigation of reportable accidents and dangerous occurrences in accordance with Section 1.7.1 (1992) of H.S.R. Code for Mines in B.C.
(iii)	The Safety, Health and Environment Committee CoChairpersons or their designates shall be informed as soon as possible, but within four (4) hours of the event, of accidents that cause injuries which require medical aid and, if they deem it necessary, they shall participate in the investigation
(b)	In the case of a fatal accident, the Union Safety Chairman or Local Union President, or their designates, shall be notified immediately and access to conduct a full investigation will be provided. Such investigation may be conducted independent of the Company, if the Union chooses to do so.
(c)	All reportable accidents or reportable incidents filed with the Ministry of Mines shall be forwarded to the Union office as soon as possible or within sixteen (16) hours.
16.05	The Mines Inspector will be accompanied by the Union Safety Chairman or his designate during either a safety tour or accident investigation on the property unless the Inspector advises the Safety Chairman or his designate otherwise.
55
16.06	The Company agrees to acquaint and instruct members of the Joint Safety, Health and Environment Committee with equipment and techniques of sampling and analysis for potentially toxic substances occurring within the Company's operations within three months of the employee's appointment to the joint committee.
16.07	On request of the Union Safety Committee Chair-
man, and at a mutually agreed upon time, the Company will acquaint the Union Crew Safety representatives with sampling and monitoring techniques related to their respective areas of work within three mont1 '	’ ’ notification of
(a)	Where reasonable justification is shown, the Company may require an employee to attend at a medical examination for reasons of health and safety. The Company will, prior to requiring an employee to attend for a medical examination, discuss the reasons with a member of the Union executive. If the Company is unable to contact a member of the Union executive, they will discuss the reasons with the employee's shop steward, chief shop steward if available from the immediate area and crew safety representative.
(b)	Where such an examination occurs on a regularly scheduled work day, the employee will suffer no loss of regular pay. If the examination occurs on a scheduled day-off, he will receive four (4) hours pay for each day of travel required to attend the appointment, and four (4) hours pay for the appointment. Such hours will be paid at the applicable overtime rate.
The Company will arrange and pay for the employee's travel and accommodations and reimburse him for reasonable meal costs.
(a) The Company shall provide the Union with the following information:
their appointment.
16.08
16.09
56
(i)	An information sheet on toxic chemicals used in the various processes, including emergency'procedures as per H.S.R. Code for Mines in B.C. (1992) WHMIS.
(ii)	Information on major new tools and equipment;
(iii)	A copy of all WCB 7A’s for all employees and any associated First Aid reports within three (3) business days;
(iv)	A monthly summary of injuries sustained on the job by employees and statistics pertaining to them.
(b)	The Company shall develop and maintain a Mine Health and Safety Program which includes the following sections:
(i)	a written policy statement,
(ii)	general safety rules,
(iii)	safe working procedures on a departmental basis,
(iv)	a list of hazardous materials, safe handling procedures and antidotes,
(v)	provision for the regular monthly crew safety meetings,
(vi)	procedures for accident and serious incident investigation, and
(vii)	procedures for safety tour inspections.
The Safety, Health and Environment Committee shall review the Mine Health and Safety Program for completeness and effectiveness on an ongoing basis and submit its findings to the General Manager.
(c)	The Union agrees that prior to discussion with governmental agencies or the public, it will discuss any Safety or Health concerns with the Company as soon as the concern arises.
16.10	The Union agrees that the provisions of Article 16 shall be used for legitimate safety concerns only. The par-
57
ties further agree that any interruption shall be restricted to the specific hazard identified.
(a)	The Company agrees that there	_ regularly
scheduled safety meetings on Company time for all members of every crew once per calendar month. Tentative dates and times for these meetings will be posted during the first week of each month, and will be scheduled in such a fashion so as each crew’s meeting will be separated by at least three (3) weeks and no more than six (6) weeks.
Meetings will not normally be scheduled so as to coincide with shift end.
Meetings will be held where noise from operations does not unduly interfere. Safety meetings will include in their agenda:
(i)	Reading of the previous meeting's minutes for errors or omissions;
(ii)	Outstanding safety items from previous meetings and progress update, if any;
(iii)	Report of new safety concerns or suggestions.
Further, it is recognized that the use of safety videos, guest speakers or other outside sources can serve as useful tools for promoting safety awareness.
All suggestions or complaints shall be discussed and recorded. Copies of crew safety meeting minutes compiled by the Supervisor shall be given to the Crew safety representative, the area representative and the Union office, within four (4) working days.
(b)	The President and Safety Committee Chairman or their designates shall meet quarterly with the General Manager and Superintendent Employee Relations to review the reports and recommendations of the Joint Safety, Health and Environment Committee and discuss other matters per-
16.11
58
taining to safety, accident prevention and industrial hygiene. The Union and the Company shall exchange agendas of the matters they propose to discuss at least two weeks prior to the meeting. For special needs related to safety, the Union or the Company may request a meeting of the two (2) parties,
16.12	In dealing with Safety and Health conditions affecting employees, the Union or members of the Joint Safety, Health and Environment Committee shall have access to the operations to investigate and discuss such matters. Access for such investigations shall be arranged by the Loss Control Department at a mutually agreed time and Company officials shall accompany Union officials on such investigations.
16.13	It is agreed and understood by the parties that a lock-out procedure is an integral part of the safety program on the property for the protection of both employees and equipment. This procedure will be in accordance with Sections 4.11.1 thru 4.11.7 (1992) of the H.S.R. Code for Mines in B.C. In order to re-inforce the importance of locking out equipment the Company will provide booklets outlining the proper procedures for each area and employees and management personnel will be required to follow these procedures at all times.
(a)	A person shall not carry out any work or operate any equipment, tool, or appliance -if he has reasonable cause to believe that to do so would create an undue hazard to the health or safety of any person.
(b)	A supervisor shall not knowingly perform or permit a worker to perform work which is, or could create, an undue hazard to the health or safety of any person.
(c)	A person who refuses to carry out any work or operate any equipment, tool, or appliance, in compliance with (a) above shall forthwith report the circumstances to his supervisor.
16.14
59
(d)	The supervisor receiving a report under the preceding (c) shall forthwith investigate the matter and ensure that any hazardous condition is remedied without delay; or if, in his opinion the report is not valid, he shall inform the person who made the report.
(e)	If the procedure in section (d) fails to resolve the issue and the person continues to refuse to carry out the work, the supervisor or other management representative shall forthwith make an investigation in the presence of the person who made the report, together with another person having knowledge of the work in question and who is:
(i)	a worker representative or designate of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee if available, or;
(ii)	designated by the Local Union to represent the person refusing to carry out the work.
(f)	If the person still refuses to carry out the work after his supervisor and the other person have investigated the issue in accordance with (e) above, and are both of the opinion that no undue hazard exists and that:
(i)	the refusal is considered to be justifiable for reasons peculiar to that particular person, and;
(ii)	there is no justification for an alternate person to refuse to carry out the work in question then, the supervisor, after informing the alternate person of the reason for the refusal, may have him perform the work.
(g)	(i) Every reasonable effort shall be made to temporarily reassign, with no loss of regular pay and within his department, an employee referred to in (c) preceding.
(ii) No employees will be required or permitted to work, where another employee has refused to work, unless the employee, in the presence of his Safety Representative, has been informed of the refusal and the reason thereof.
60
(h)	If the procedures in (d), (e) and (f) fail to resolve the issue, the General Manager, or his designate shall:
(i)	conduct an investigation and either develop a plan that is acceptable to the persons who will do the work and which will allow the work to proceed safely, or suspend further work, and;
(ii)	if the work is suspended or is allowed to proceed, submit a report to the district inspector describing the situation and any remedial action taken.
16.15
(a)	An employee who is injured on the job and is unable to complete his shift will have his regular earnings maintained for the balance of that shift.
(b)	The Company agrees to replace or repair personal clothing that is damaged and rendered unsuitable for an industrial setting as the result of an unusual occurance in the workplace.
16.16
(a) The following items of personal protection equipment and apparel shall be supplied by the Company on a loan basis and the employee will be required to sign for them and return them in good and serviceable condition (fair wear and tear excepted). If the employee fails to do so, he shall be charged with their replacement costs:
Personal Protection Equipment And Apparel
Safety Hat Safety Hat Liner Safety Hat Chin Strap Safety Glasses (clear and dark)
Respiratory Protection Hearing Protection Balaclava Monogoggles Gloves
61
Reflector Vests Hot Gloves Rubber Sleeves Rubber Slickers Welder's Gloves
Electricians' High Voltage Gloves Asbestos Gloves Cutting Goggles
Aprons and Face Shields Re: Corrosive Material
Safety Belts and Lines
Welder Hard Hat and Helmet
Safety Shields for Cutting and Grinding
Welding Lenses
Life Jackets Painters Masks Flashlights Hip Waders Locks for Switch-gear Blaster's Knife Welder's Jackets Knee Pads Hair Nets
Belts for Miners Lamps Racal Pure Airstream Helmet Miners Lamps Miners Hard Hats
(b)	The Company will maintain a coverall program that will provide field maintenance, blasting crew, pit services and plant operations employees with two pairs of coveralls per shift cycle, and all other employees with one pair per shift cycle. Coveralls will be distributed on an exchange basis.
Insulated coveralls will be supplied to employees who are required to work outside in inclement weather. Coveralls that have lost their insulating value will be removed from service.
62
(c)	Any other safety equipment the Joint Safety, Health and Environment Committee deems necessary, shall be requested through the Loss Control Department.
16.17	New employees who require corrective lenses must possess safety lenses and safety frames prior to the commencement of work. The Company will pay the cost of two pairs of safety lenses and safety frames and thereafter will replace safety lenses and/or safety frames when an employee can substantiate they were damaged while at work. The Company will not be responsible for costs under this section that may be recoverable from another source such as a health plan or Workers' Compensation.
16.18
(a)	Employees involved in authorized safety meetings, inspections, investigations or tours will suffer no loss of regular earnings while in attendance at such meetings.
(b)	The Union Safety Chairman or his alternate, and the Union Safety Committee member attending monthly safety tours, as outlined in 16.03(a), on their days off, will receive their regular straight time rate of pay for actual hours spent on the tour. Such hours will not be used for the calculation of overtime.
(c)	In the event the regular monthly inspection falls upon the Co-Chairpersons first night shift the member will be re-assigned to day shift for that shift; if on the second night shift the member will be re-assigned to day shift for the entire shift cycle.
16.19
(a)	In Mine Operations, Maintenance and Processing, the shift supervisor and the crew safety representative will inspect all work areas within the supervisor's responsibility sometime during the first two shifts of each cycle.
(b)	Should production be curtailed in any work area on the property for safety reasons, the crew or area safety representative directly affected will be advised.
63
16.20
(a)	In recognition of the commitment to educate employees and management representatives, and to ensure that acceptable standards are met regarding allowable dust levels, it is agreed that a continuing program of dust control will be supported by both parties.
To this end, the Company commits their resources to maintain air pressurization systems in an efficient and proper manner and to supply and require the use of respirators where employees must work outside of equipment cabs or control rooms in dusty conditions.
In recognition that a proper dust control program requires the co-operation of employees, it is understood that machinery operators will take all reasonable steps to ensure the cleanliness of their operating cabs and treat cab doors, seals and pressurizing equipment with due care in order to maximize the effectiveness of the pressurizing system. It is also understood that equipment operators will inspect, clean and change cab filters as required, and report defective components of the pressurizing system to their supervisors.
It is further understood that the Union will provide its full support to the program and assist in the objectives outlined through education and promotion of the contents of this article.
(b)	The Company will provide and maintain water trucks and train operators for road watering procedures, and the equipment being used. The Company will assign appropriate priority to repairing water trucks.
16.21
(a)	Should the Company request a meeting with an employee to discuss his claim with the Workers' Compensation Board, he will be entitled to a Union representative from the WCB Committee.
(b)	The Company shall provide copies to the concerned
64
employee and the Union of any claim related information it submits to Workers' Compensation Board.
Likewise whenever possible the Union shall provide the Company with copies of claim related information it submits to the Workers' Compensation Board.
16.22	In the event the Company intends to dispute an employee’s claim for workers compensation benefits, the Company will, prior to filing their dispute, advise the Union in writing of their intent, and outline their reasons for disputing the claim.
Within 48 hours of receiving this notice, the Union will be given opportunity to discuss the dispute before the paper work is sent to the Workers’ Compensation Board.
16.23
(a)	It is recognized that Safety Complaint Forms are a legitimate manner in which to bring safety concerns to the attention of the Company.
Prior to presenting such a form the employee must have discussed the matter with his Supervisor and have given him an opportunity to respond. Should this response be unsatisfactory and a Safety Complaint Form is filed, the Company will respond in writing.
(b)	The Company will provide written response within seven (7) business days or a date mutually agreed upon. Copies of all replies will be sent to the Union.
(c)	Failing satisfactory settlement the matter will be referred to the Joint Safety, Health and Environment Committee.
16.24	The parties recognize the benefits of a Modified Return to Work Program for employees recovering from both work related and non-work related injuries/sickness, as well as the benefit that flows to the Company and Union.
65
The parties will continue to endorse the existing Program, and will review and recommend changes where necessary for the successful operation of this Program. Any meetings will be on an as required basis and will include the Union Compensation Committee Chairperson.
16.25	The Joint Safety, Health and Environment Committee will review new products prior to being used if they may be harmful to employees.
If a less harmful product is available, the Committee shall make a recommendation to substitute.
ARTICLE 17:
HEALTH AND WELFARE
17.01	The Company agrees to pay the full cost of providing the benefits set out below for any employee who has elected or in the future may elect to be covered by the Plans; provided that such employee meets the eligibility requirements for enrollment. Coverage provided is subject to the terms of |he respective insurance policies.	7oA/Q£j\j
(a)	Medical Service Plan of British Columbia and Alberta*
Effective on the first day of the month following the date of employment-
(b)	Prescriptions/Medi-Care Supplement*
After $10.00 deductible, pays 100% of prescription drugs; Effective on the first day of the month following the date of employment.	\oG j
(c)	Vision Care*	^
The maximum amount payable will be effective August 1, 1995-$100- June 1, 1997-$125
(a) for persons under age 18 during any 12 month period;
66
(b)	for persons age 18 and over during any 24 month period.
Effective on the first day of fie month Tallowing the date of employment.	lOC
(d) Dental Plan*	O ^	7) -
Plan A - Basic Dentistry -100% coverage

Plan B - Crowns, Bridges - 80% coverage Plan C - Orthodontics - 50% coverage
The maximum coverage for Plan A & B combined is $1500.00 per year per person. Effective June 1,1998 -$1700 per year per person
The maximum coverage for Plan C is, effective August 1, 1995 - $1800.00 per lifetime per person.
Effective upon completion of the probationary period.
(e) Weekly Indemnity	~7&0 ^
Weekly benefit of $550.00, or at no time less than Unemployment Insurance Benefits.
Effective June 1st, I996, weekly payment of $575.00, and on J u ne 1 st, 1997 to $600.00
Benefits are provided from the 1st day of accident and the 4th day of sickness for 52 weeks (1 -4-52 Plan).
Effective on the first day of the month following the date of employment.
Employees off on Weekly Indemnity who experience undue delay in receiving benefits through no fault of their own, may, upon signing a promissory note assigning the benefit cheque to the Company, receive an advance on such benefit. Advances will be issued if the benefit cheque is not received by the end of the first two weeks following submis-j sion of claim form. ,
5Jo &
1 (>
9 (.b f 0 G 91 i
6
'14/?9?4TSO
B7 79/9?9 5 75 ■** 7^/999^0 0
(f)
Available to employees who suffer non-occupational injuries. Payments commence upon the expiration of Weekly Indemnity payments and continue until recovery, age 65 or death, whichever comes first.
Benefits shall be the difference between the Company payment of $1200.00 per month ‘and the total of all payments made by the Government (calculated monthly) to such disabled employees.
Effective August 1,1995 - $1300.00 per month Effective June 1,1998 - $1400.00 per month	/
(g)	Life insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment
Life Insurance:
70Sj
/OO
August 1 st, 1995 June 1 st, 1996 June 1 st,1997 June 1 st, 1998
-	$45,000 c^5
-	$46,000	V
-	$48,000	2
-	$50,000 05 O
Accidental Death and Dismemberment:
August 1 st, 1995	- $45,000
June 1st, 1996	-$46,000
June 1st, 1997	-$48,000
June 1st, 1998	-$50,000
Eligible on date of hire. *includes qualified dependents
17.02
(a)	A summary of the benefits plan will be provided to each employee.
(b)	A copy of the benefits master plan will be provided to the Union office.
17.03	An employee with one full year of seniority who is laid off and does not select severance or is mandatorily retired by the Company will be provided with Medical Service
68
Plan (as provided for in 17.01(a) and Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment (as provided for in 17.01(g)), for a period of three (3) months from the effective date of his lay off or retirement.
ARTICLE 18:
GENERAL PROVISIONS
18.01
(a)	Unless advised of changes, any registered mail required to be given to the Company under the terms of this agreement shall be addressed to the:
General Manager Quintette Operating Corporation Box 1500
Tumbler Ridge, B.C.
V0C 2W0
(b)	Unless advised of changes, any registered mail required to be given to the Union under this agreement shall be addressed to:
United Steelworkers of America Local Union 9113 Box 1810
Tumbler Ridge, B.C.
V0C 2W0
(c)	Any registered mail shall be deemed to be given on the next business day following the day of mailing. The registration receipt shall establish the date of mailing.
18.02
(a)	An employee who is laid off for a period of more than two (2) weeks or is terminated by the Company will be paid all wages forthwith.
(b)	An employee who gives seven (7) days notice of termination shall be paid all wages no later than two (2) business days from his last day worked.
69
(c)	An employee who gives less than seven (7) days notice of voluntary termination shall be paid all wages no later than six (6) days from his last day worked.
(d)	Where it is determined that an employee is not in receipt of his full wages for a pay period he will, upon request, be reimbursed within two (2) business days from the time that such determination is made.
18.03	The Company and Union agree to hold Union Management meetings on a monthly basis if requested by either party, the purpose of which is to encourage communications at regular intervals to solve problems and discuss subjects of mutual interest. In any event the meetings will be held at least once quarterly.
The Committee will consist of a maximum of four (4) members from each party. The agenda for the meeting will be established at least one week prior to the meeting date.
Employees shall suffer no loss of regular earnings while in attendance at such meetings. Attendance at such meetings outside regular work hours, will be paid at regular straight time, with the exception of the Local President while on leave.
18.04
(a)	The lunchrooms provided will be maintained in a clean condition. Lunchrooms in the Pit are for the use of the Blast and Pit services crews only.
(b)	Washrooms will be provided and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
18.05	The normal procedure for payment of wages will be by direct deposit every second Tuesday to the saving institution of an employees choice.
18.06
(a) The Company will provide a tool allowance each year to tradesmen as follows:
70
January 1st July 1 st
Sprinkler Fitter
Welder
Lubeservice
Electrician Pipe Fitter Gas Fitter
H.D. Mechanic
Machinist
Millwright
$250.00	$250.00
.‘tp.nn nn	$250.00
$250.00 $200.00
$200.00	S9nn nn
<R?nn nn  
This allowance will be paid on the first pay period following each of these dates.
An employee who has been continuously absent during the six months preceding these dates will not be eligible for this allowance.
Apprentices and Uncertified Trades shall be entitled to the tool allowance paid to the journeymen in their trade classification.
(b) Tool boxes damaged beyond repair through legitimate accidents proven to be no fault of the owner will be replaced by the Company to a comparable standard at no cost to the employee.
18.07	Employees who attend voluntary training courses on their scheduled days of rest will not be	for overtime
18.08	Union/Management Committee members (as outlined in 18.03), and all regular members of the Joint Committee (as outlined in Article 16.03(e)), who are requested to attend these meetings with the Company, shall be granted a four (4) hour leave of absence with pay either at the end of the shift immediately prior to, or at the commencement of the shift immediately following such meetings.
rates for the time spent training.
71
18.09
(a)	The Company will pay travel assistance of $6.00 per shift worked to those employees required to provide their own transportation to the Main Shop; the $6.00 per shift shall increase to $7.00 per shift effective June 1 st, 1998.
(b)	In the event a new work location(s) is established whereby an employee is required to provide transportation to a point further in distance than the Main Shop, the travel assistance provided for in 18.09(a) will be increased proportionately to the greater distance for those employees affected.
18.10	Rules and regulations of the Company will not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
Prior to the implementation of rules and regulations related to the terms of this Agreement, or the change thereof, the Company will discuss these matters with the Union before posting them on the appropriate bulletin boards.
18.11	The Company will bear the cost of printing the collective agreement and will provide all employees with a copy as soon as they are available.
18.12	The Company will make available a reasonable number of collective agreements to the Union.
18.13	Upon request by the Union, the Company will implement a payroll deduction to collect monies from employees to be used to provide financial assistance to other employees or their families.
18.14	The present practice with regards to mutual shift exchanges will be continued.
18.15	The Company and Union agree that continued support of the Employee and Family Assistance Program is beneficial and therefore agree to maintain the highest level of co-operation for the continued development of the program.
72
18.16 Joint Savinas Plan	Jy
(a)	This is an optional benefit plan which employees may join during the first three (3) months of employment and thereafter during February and August of each year.
(b) Employees contribute monies in increments of 1 % of straight time basic earnings (through payroll deductions) drawing an employer contribution as per the following table:
Years of	Employee	Company
Service	Contribution	Contribution
Up to 1 year
1	- 2 years
2	- 3 years
3	- 4 years
4	- 5 years
5	- 6 years
6	- 7 years 7-10 years 10+ years)
(effective July 18,1995)
(c)	For the purpose of the above, employees contributions will include their Vacation Entitlement based on the following formula: Number of hours of entitlement times the base rate at the time of vacation times the percentage the employee is contributing. The Company will contribute as in the table provided.
(d)	Contributions may be directed to a Non-registered and/or Registered (RRSP) account. Within each account employees may choose to invest in a Savings, Equity and/or Income fund. Employees may change investment options up to four (4) times annually. The reference to changing investment options up to four (4) times annually will mean not more than once each quarter.
(e)	The employee has immediate ownership of the Company contribution and investment income as well as his own contribution.
73
(f)	Every twenty-four (24) months the employee can make a withdrawal of funds without penalty. If an employee makes more than one withdrawal (excluding emergency withdrawals), in a twenty-four (24) month period, an automatic six (6) month suspension of company contributions is applied. For the purpose of this clause the twenty-four (24) month period will commence on the date of joining the plan and recommence every two (2) years from that date.
(g)	Emergency withdrawals can be made without penalty as a result of the death of a family member (as per article
15.02	(a) of the Collective Agreement), for emergency medical situations and for layoff of more than seven (7) days.
For the purpose of this clause emergency medical situations are defined as:
(i)	when a plan member or dependent is referred by a doctor to a major center for nonelective surgery or treatment:
(ii)	when a plan member or dependent is referred to a hospital in the local area, (Peace River District) for a period of seven (7) days or longer.
(h)	The current value of the Savings Plan account will be paid to the employee upon his leaving the Company; or will be paid to the employee's beneficiary upon his death.
(i)	The Company agrees that excess funds will be distributed amongst the plan participants on a pro-rata basis, on May 31st of each year of the plan.
Excess funds is defined as the difference between the amount actually paid by the Company into the Savings Plan and the amount the Company would have been required to contribute had all employees made maximum contributions.
0)
(i)	For the purpose of (i) above, a plan member is defined as ah employee who has made one or more contri-
74
butions, through payroll deduction, to the plan during the twelve (12) month period ending May 31st of each year of the plan, and is an employee of the Company on the May 31 st distribution date.
(ii)	For the purpose of calculating entitlement to the excess funds, a plan member will receive one (1) point for each month he contributes, through payroll deduction, to a maximum of twelve (12) points in any one year ending May 31st.
(iii)	In order to qualify for a point, an employee must be enrolled as a plan participant prior to the 15th day of the month.
(iv)	The total amount of excess funds will be divided by the total number of plan participant points to determine the value of a point. The distribution of the excess funds will be done within one month of May 31st of each year of the plan. Excess funds will be distributed to each plan participant in the form of a contribution to the Savings Plan.
(k)
(i)	Should an employee be discharged and subsequently reinstated with back wages, and was a plan member at the time of his discharge, he will have deducted, unless otherwise directed, the amount equal to the total of employee contributions, if he had been at work during the period between discharge and reinstatement.
(ii)	In the event of (i) above, the Company will also contribute as if the employee was at work.
(iii)	The calculations in (i) and (ii) above will be pro-rated in the event of a partial back wages award or agreement.
(l)	When a plan members' anniversary of years of service changes, resulting in an increased employee contribution, he must inform the Plan Administrator in the preceding February or August that he wants to change his contribution to the
75
revised level. If he fails to instruct the Plan Administrator, his contribution will remain at the same level prior to his anniversary date. The Company contribution will automatically be adjusted to reflect the increase, if applicable.
(m)
(i)	Employees who are in receipt of disability payments resulting from a Workers’ Compensation claim, or who are on approved leave as provided for in Article 15.01 (c), (d) and
(e), (excluding International Representative) of the Collective Agreement, may make contributions up to the amount that would have been permitted if they had been at work. If they make contributions, the Company will match as per the table outlined in (b) above.
(ii)	If an employee chooses to exercise this option, he must make contributions within one (1) month of returning from his Workers’ Compensation absence, or approved leave of absence, or in the case of long term leaves, (exceeding one (1) month) employees must make contributions on a month-by-month basis.
(iii)	Employees participating in the Savings Plan that are on Weekly Indemnity may continue to contribute to the Savings Plan. However, the Company will not be required to match contributions as in (b) above.
(n)	An employee who is laid off during the plan year, June 1st to May 31st, will be considered a plan participant on the May 31st distribution following his lay-off, provided he has made one (1) or more contributions during the plan year.
(o)	Employees participating in the Savings Plan may contribute in excess of the contribution level in (b) above. However, the Company will only be required to contribute to the level as in (b) above.
18.17	For the purpose of International Aid and Development, the Company agrees to deduct on a bi-weekly basis the amount of (not less than $0.01) per hour from the
76
wages of all employees in the bargaining unit for all hours worked, and on a bi-weekly basis, to pay the amount so deducted to the “Humanity Fund” and to forward such payment to United Steelworkers of America National Office, 234 Eglinton Avenue East, Toronto, Ontario M4P IK7, and to advise in writing both the Humanity Fund at the aforementioned address and the local union that such payment has been made, the amount of such payment and the names of all employees in the bargaining unit on whose behalf such payment has been made.
It is understood and agreed that participation by any employee in the bargaining unit in the program of deductions set forth above may be discontinued by any employee in the bargaining unit after the receipt by the Company and the local Union of that employee's written statement of his desire to discontinue such deductions from his pay which may be received during the four weeks following ratification of this agreement or at any time thereafter.
18.18	Commencing January 1st, 1993, upon submission of a receipt, employees will be reimbursed the cost of new work boots to a maximum of eighty ($80) in each calendar year. Effective January 1 st, 1996, to a maximum of one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125) in each calendar year.
(	. PPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
19.01
(a)	Any apprenticeship training sponsored by the Company will conform with the laws of the Province of British Columbia.
(b)	The course content, evaluation of apprentice performance and matters related thereto or regulated by statute or government regulations shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 19:
77
19.02
(a)	While an apprentice is at school attending the courses prescribed by the Director of Apprenticeship the Company will maintain his earnings at his regular hourly rate for forty (40) hours in each week for eight (8) hour and ten (10) hour shift workers, for forty-two (42) hours in each week for twelve (12) hours shift workers, less any subsidy paid by the Government with the exception of travel and living out allowance. The Company's obligation is limited to one repeat at any stage of the employee’s apprenticeship. The Company will discontinue the sponsoring of the apprenticeship where the apprentice has failed the required schooling more than once during the term of the apprenticeship.
(b)	An employee who has previously been removed from an apprenticeship resulting from failure will only be considered for future apprenticeship vacancies after a two (2) year period has passed from the date of removal. Upon successful posting for a future apprenticeship the employee will be entitled to one repeat as currently described in Article 19.02(a), however, upon a repeat the financial onus will be the responsibility of the employee. Additionally, upon a second removal from an apprenticeship due to failure the employee will be ineligible from posting on future apprenticeship vacancies.
19.03
(a)	The basic hourly rates for apprentices shall be in accordance with Appendix A -Wage Schedule.
(b)	Rate increases are contingent upon successful completion of the previous practical requirements, and Apprenticeship examinations. The yearly intervals shall be calculated using the date of entry into the program as the anniversary date.
19.04	Employees interested in being considered for apprenticeships must contact the Training Department and arrange to write the pre-apprenticeship examination. The
78
passing grade for such apprenticeship testing has been established as being 70%. Where a candidate has failed to pass the examination, he may be entitled to one re-write.
19.05
(a)	Vacancies for apprenticeships will be posted for eight (8) calendar days and candidates for apprenticeships will be evaluated and selected in consideration of the following criteria:
(i)	Length of service with the Company;
(ii)	Previous related experience or training in the applicable trade;
(iii)	Previous related apprenticeship training in the applicable trade;
(iv)	Education qualifications;
(v)	Successful completion of the pre-apprenticeship examination,
Where candidates are for all intents and purposes equal, length of service will be the deciding factor.
(b)	Notwithstanding (a) above, it is agreed that for every third apprenticeship posting in each category of apprenticeship, the selection will be made on the basis of Company seniority provided however the conditions of both 19.04 and government apprentice requirements have been met.
19.06	Upon successful completion of each year's Technical Training assignment and submission of receipts, the Company agrees to pay the apprentice a textbook allowance to a maximum of $120.00.
ARTICLE 20:
LEADHANDS
The parties agree that the use of Leadhands is beneficial to both employee(s) and the Company when they are not subject to abuse or misunderstanding.
79
It is therefore agreed that Leadhands may be used to permit the Company to evaluate employees who wish to become permanent supervisors.
It is further agreed that a Leadhand acts as a leader of a group of employees working on similar or related work under the direction of a salaried employee.
Leadhands will assign work as direct by the salaried employee and co-ordinate this work among the crew members.
The Leadhand functions as a leader and is differentiated from a supervisor in that he is responsible for the correct completion of work but not for disciplinary action or other personnel matters which are the responsibility of the salaried employee to whom he reports.
Leadhands will be selected by the Company at the Company’s discretion; and will have an accumulative evaluation period of no more than forty-five (45) shifts during the period of this Agreement. To meet unusual circumstances the parties may agree to extend this time limit.
During the period that an employee is acting as a Leadhand, he will be paid a premium of $.50 per hour for all hours worked, but will not be eligible for overtime except as a Leadhand.
After completion of the evaluation period, a Leadhand will be returned to the job previously held prior to the evaluation period or promoted to a permanent supervisory position.
The parties understand that Leadhands will not be entitled to repeat their evaluation period during the term of the Agreement.
The Company will supply to the Union an up-to-date list of Leadhands indicating the starting date of each Leadhand and in the event a Leadhand is unsuccessful in completion of the evaluation, the date of his removal from Leadhand position.
80
ARTICLE 21 TRAINING
21.01	The Company recognizes the need for training opportunities to enable each employee to improve his knowledge and skills to equip himself for future positions of greater responsibility or higher pay for which he is eligible within the Line of Progression or through Job Postings.
21.02
(a)	Each employee in training within a Line of Progression shall meet with his supervisor or the training supervisor at least quarterly to review his progress. More frequent meetings will be arranged upon request of the employee in training.
(b)	Every attempt shall be made to enable an employee in training to successfully develop the requisite qualifications and ability. In the event an employee fails to qualify for progression in training, the Company shall advise the employee in writing of the reasons for such failure and the employee shall be removed from further training.
(c)	Employees in training and Trainee positions will be given a course outline, and appropriate training manuals. Copies of the above will be made available to the Union.
(d)	If an employee has demonstrated the ability to accelerate through training, exceptions to the normal accumulation of training hours or days will be made.
(e)	Determination of qualifications and provision for reasonable training opportunities shall be made by the Company in a just manner and shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
(f)	All employees, other than those in Trainee positions while training up through the Line of Progression will receive the rate of pay for the job they normally perform.
81
(g)	Employees bidding down a Line of Progression, will receive the rate of pay applicable for the position to which they posted.
(h)	Subject to prior approval, employees who require driver's license endorsements other than Class 5 will be reimbursed for the costs of the course, and/or required text books, if they are successful in obtaining the licence endorsement.
In recognition of the importance of training, the Company agrees to reimburse an employee for the cost of approved courses which are deemed to be job related.
(i)	In recognition of the importance of employees being properly qualified to operate mobile equipment, it is agreed that employees will not be permitted to operate equipment until such time as they have been checked out by a supervisor designated and trained by the Company for the particular mobile equipment in question. The Company will provide the Union with a list of these supervisors and the equipment they are authorized to check out employees on and any changes in the same.
21.03	PLANT OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT
The purpose of 21.03 is to provide a system of training that will be more practical and efficient from an operational point of view while at the same time ensuring that senior employees do not miss an opportunity for advancement due to their not having been given the training required to qualify them for the position.
To this end the parties agree as follows:
(a)	The Company will train according to the requirements on each particular crew using the training Lines of Progression as outlined in Appendix D.
(b)	(i) Permanent vacancies above shift utility will be offered by department seniority to those employees in the
82
job group immediately below the vacancy, as outlined in Appendix C. Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees in the same job grouping, but in a different classification, or those in a higher job grouping will be awarded the vacancy subject to seniority and their having submitted a written notice of intention to their supervisor prior to the vacancy occurring. Likewise, employees previously qualified in a vacant position that is more than one (1) position above their current grouping will be awarded the vacancy subject to being qualified, seniority and their having submitted a written notice of intention to their supervisor prior to the vacancy occurring.
(ii)	All employees in classifications in the Plant Operations Line of Progression marked with an “X” who apply for other postings will only be awarded the job if a qualified replacement is available in the Line of Progression.
(iii)	If a vacancy is not filled as outlined in (i) above, it will be posted Departmentally and Company wide simultaneously and awarded to the senior qualified applicant, based on Department seniority firstly and Company seniority secondly. Failing this the Company may recruit.
(c)	(i) It is the objective of the Company to train senior Plant Operations employees in each classification at least one job ahead. Where there is more than one employee in a classification on a shift, the senior employee will complete training prior to the other one starting.
(ii)	Aside from those employees who were frozen according to Article 10.04 at the implementation of this posting and training system, it is understood that employees must forward train according to Appendix D.
(iii)	Employees in Shift Utility must forward train into each of Dryer Patrol, Pumps & Magnetite and Lower Screen and Crusher.
(iv)	Employees being trained on Bradford Breaker must
83
back train through Screen & Crusher if not previously trained.
(v)	Employees being trained on Modules must back train through Thickner Patrol and Pumps & Magnetite if not previously trained.
(vi)	Employees training ahead in the Plant shall become qualified when they have successfully completed both the practical and theory portions of the module training program.
(d)	For the purposes of the Plant Operations Department Line of Progression, with the exception of those classifications below Shift Utility, it is expressly agreed that Articles 10.02(a) and (b), 10.03(a), 10.04(a), (b) and (c) are not in effect.
21.04	ROAD CREW DEPARTMENT
(al It is the obiective of the Company to train senior Road Crew employees in each classification at least one job ahead.
(b)	The required hours for employees undergoing training for the Road Crew department shall be:
Utility Backhoe - 400 hours Dozer/Grader - 900 hours
(c)	Both practical and theory portions of the module training program must be successfully completed before the employee is deemed qualified.
21.05	MINE OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT
(a)	Successful applicants for Trainee positions will receive training when so scheduled and will be paid the appropriate Trainee rate for the hours while they are training.
(b)	In order to complete training in an efficient and productive manner, employees will have averaged approximately 50% of their regular scheduled hours in training during the Trainee 3 and Trainee 2 phase of the program. Once advanced to Trainee 1, the employee will be scheduled for the remainder of his training on a full time basis. This sched-
84
ule is subject to operational factors and individual abilities. If more than one-half of the trainees in any classification are in the Trainee 1 phase at one time, an adjustment in full time training may be made.
(c)	All employees in classifications in the Mines Operations Line of Progression marked with an “X” who apply for Trainee or other positions on their shift will only be awarded the job if a Trainee 1 or qualified back-up operator is available on their shift, or another employee in a back-up position or a trainee I volunteers to trade shifts provided a vacancy exists in his current classification.
(d)	P&H, Drill, Demag and Front End Loader applicants for Trainee positions on a different shift will only be awarded the job if a vacant position for which they are qualified exists on the same shift as the trainee position, or another employee in a classification for which they are qualified volunteers to trade shifts. If the vacant position is not in his current classification, he may opt not to accept the trainee position.
(e)	The junior Dozer/Grader Operator on a shift in which any of a P&H, Demag, Front End Loader or Drill training vacancy occurs, must switch shifts if the successful applicant is a Dozer/Grader Operator from another shift, provided the vacancy has to be filled.
(f)	It is the objective of the Company to train senior employees in each classification in Lines of Progression other than Trainee positions at least one job ahead.
(g)	An employee who is training or has completed his training in a trainee position will not be eligible for other trainee vacancies or posted jobs in his department, until he has completed one (1) year from the time he was qualified as an operator; and he must accept an operators position in the classification for which he has last received training, if the vacancy occurs within a year of his becoming qualified as an operator, and the vacancy is on his current shift in his department. In
85
applying this clause, it is understood that when there is more than one qualified back-up for an operator's vacancy, the senior employee will be given preference.
(h)	Employees who voluntarily withdraw from a training program after having completed the trainee 3 phase will not be eligible for further training for a six (6) month period.
(i)	Employees who have been specifically designated by the Company to train other employees to operate haul trucks shall be paid a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour for each hour in which they are engaged in such training.
21.06
(a)	The average training hours for advancement through Trainee positions shall be:
1)	P&H Shovel Trainee
1 to qualified Operator
2)	Demag Operator Trainee
1 to qualified Operator
3 to 2	300 hours
2 to 1	450 hours
	450 hours
3 to 2	200 hours'
2 to 1	350 hours'
	350 hours'
‘These hours will be spent on both the Shovel and Backhoe portion of the Demag.
3)	Dozer/Grader Trainee
1 to qualified Operator
4)	Drill Operator Trainee
1to qualified Operator
5)	Front End Loader Trainee
1 to qualified Operator.
6)	Backhoe Operator Trainee
1 to qualified Operator
3 to 2	300	hours
2	to 1	550	hours
550 hours
3	to 2	300	hours
2	to 1 450 hours
550 hours
3	to 2	100	hours
2	to 1	250	hours
250 hours
3	to 2,	100	hours
2 to 1	250	hours
250 hours
86
(b)	Both practical and theory portions of the module training program must be successfully completed before a Trainee is a qualified operator.
(c)	The required time for advancement from Utility Man 3 to Utility Man 2 shall be six (6) months.
21.07	It is the objective of the Company to have:
(a)	Four (4) fully qualified back-up P&H operators available on each shift;
(b)	Two (2) fully qualified back-up Demag operators available on each shift;
(c)	Four (4) fully qualified back-up Dozer/Grader operators available on each shift;
(d)	Three (3) fully qualified back-up Drill operators available on each shift;
(e)	Two (2) fully qualified back-up Front End Loader operators available on each shift;
(f)	One (1) fully qualified back-up Backhoe operator available on each shift,
(g)	An employee may only be a back-up to one (1) classification. Beyond the period described in 21.05(g), an employee successfully posting on a second Trainee position will forfeit the Trainee position first held.
21.08	Training opportunities for the dragline will be made available to employees who possess previous operating experience on either a dragline or cable crane. The senior employee will be given preference unless a demonstrable difference in previous experience can be demonstrated between the candidates. The maximum number of employees qualified on this machine will not exceed eight (8).
21.09
(a)	Notwithstanding 10.09, in the case of the Shikano Operation, all employees working in the Mine Department
87
will be eligible to bid on operator vacancies.
(b)	(i) Trainee vacancies in Mesa/Wolverine and Shikano will be posted separately, however should there not be a successful applicant, the vacancy will be re-posted in the other area. Applicants will only be eligible for vacancies in the other operating area if a vacancy for which they are qualified exists on the same shift as the trainee vacancy.
(ii)	When applying Article 10.02 (b) in filling operator vacancies in Mesa/Wolverine or Shikano, the senior qualified back-up operator from either Mesa/Wolverine or Shikano will be given preference.
(Hi) Employees wishing to transfer to Me&Wolverine from Shikano may either bid on posted operator vacancies outside of their current classification, or may request a transfer through their supervisor within their current classification.
(c)	Haul truck vacancies in the Shikano operation will be posted within the department prior to following the normal procedure forfilling haul-truck vacancies.
(d)	Blast Crew vacancies in Mesa/Wolverine and Shikano shall be filled separately as follows:
(i)	crew vacancies shall first be filled by offering the position to qualified employees currently on the Blast Crew in the respective area.
(ii)	should this step be unsuccessful, then employees outside the Blasting Line of Progression in that area may post for the position.
(iii)	failing that, current qualified Blast Crew employees from the other area will have first opportunity for the vacancy. This will be offered on the basis of department seniority firstly to the Blaster classification, then to Blaster I and, finally, Blaster Helper. Article 10.09 is waived for the purpose of 21.09(d).
88
(iv)	finally, should there still be no successful candidates the vacancy will be posted in the area away from the initial vacancy in accordance with Article 10.06
ARTICLE 22:
STUDENTS
22.01	Students may be employed for a period not exceeding four and one-half (4 1/2) months. In the event a student is hired as a regular employee, his probationary period shall commence at the time of re-hire.
22.02	In the event of a crew reduction at the operation, students shall be laid off before regular employees.
22.03	Students hired in accordance with the foregoing shall not acquire seniority, and will waive seniority with respect to Job Postings.
22.04	The company will supply the union with a list of names and employment dates of all students.
ARTICLE 23:
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
23.01	This Agreement shall commence on June 1 st. I995. It shall continue in full force and effect to'and including May 31st, I999 and thereafter from year to year unless either Party gives written notice, within (90) ninety days prior to the expiry date or of any subsequent anniversary date thereafter, requiring the other Party to commence collective bargaining with the intent of concluding a renewal agreement.
23.02	Should either Party give written notice to the other Party pursuant to Section 23.01, this Agreement shall thereafter continue in force and effect until the Union gives notice of strike or the Company gives notice of lockout in accordance with the. Labour Relations Code of British Columbia, or the Parties conclude a renewal Agreement.
89
23.03	The operation of Section 50(2) and 50(3) of the Labour Relations Code of British Columbia is hereby excluded. ;
ARTICLE 24:
CHANGE IN JOB CONTENT
24.01
(a) If any new job classifications are established or if there is a substantial change in the job content on any job classification set forth in this Wage Schedule or if any job classifications have been overlooked in this Wage Schedule the Parties agree to negotiate a rate for the jobs in question and where required elect a suitable job title.
(b) If the parties are unable to reach agreement on a dispute as to whether or not there is a substantial change in job content the dispute shall be settled by arbitration. ,
ARTICLE 25:
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
25.01
(a)	It is recognized that the introduction of technological change may become necessary for the purpose of monitoring processing, for the viability of the Company and the security of its employees. But'both parties also recognize the necessity to reduce the effect of these changes on employees security and earnings.
(b)	For the purpose of this agreement technological change shall be defined as the automation of equipment, or the mechanization or automation of duties which alters the material, process, methods or organization that affects one or more employees in the bargaining unit through lay-off, demotion, or transfer to a different job classification.
(c)	The Company shall, prior to the introduction of any technological change, provide notice to the Union at a meet-
90

ing which shall be held at least four months before implementation of the change. The Company will hold meetings with the Union, as requested, for the purpose of discussing and implementing opportunities for re-training or transfer of employees affected by the change," reviewing the effects the change will have on employees and discussing alternatives, and reviewing methods of job placement assistance in the event of lay-offs.
The notice referred to will include the nature of the change, the proposed date of the change, the names, classifications, and locations, of the employees directly affected by the change, and an outline of other <
(d)	An employee who is initially ‘g	,	,
demotion, or transfer as a direct result of the introduction of a technological change may:
(i)	Fill any available vacancy for which he has seniority and which he is able to perform; or
(ii)	Displace another employee with less seniority provided he is able to perform the job; or	// \J
(iii)	Be given retraining for new positions that arise as a direct result of the technological change provided those employees have the required qualifications and experience to satisfactorily undertake and complete the required training within 60 days. The requirements of the job posting provisions will be waived with respect to the filling of any such new positions. During training the employees previous rate will be maintained and upon satisfactory completion of that training, the employee will receive the rate of pay for the job in which he is being trained.
(iv)	Where an employee is able to provide proof of previous experience in a position he is applying for under this clause, he will be provided with a familiarization period of up to one (1) shift cycle. Such proof of experience will not be required for labourer positions.
the technological change may impact
91
25.02	The Company will co-operate with the Provincial or Federal Government and participate in every way possible in training or retraining of employees affected by technological change. This shall include educational leaves of absence for retraining, if required.
ARTICLE 26:
TRADES COMMITTEE
26.01	The Company will recognize a Trades Committee to deal with trades-related concerns that arise in their area. The Committee will be composed of four (4) tradesmen appointed by the Union and four (4) members appointed by the Company that are familiar and experienced with trades work. The Committee will meet as required, (not less than quarterly), at no loss of regular wages. The function of the Committee will be:
(a)	to review and set standards regarding in-house trades training programs for each trade,
(b)	discuss and agree to the proper implementation or recommended improvements to trades-related procedures and methods of work,
(c)	agree to on the job training programs for apprentices to assure broad exposure in the trade concerned.
ARTICLE 27:
LABOUR RELATIONS ENHANCEMENT FUND
Both the Company and the Union recognize the key role of good safety practices and smooth labour relations in the development of an efficient operation. These practices, always important, are essential to Quintette during the critical period it will face during the term of this contract. A sum of $15,000.00 will be made available on an annual basis to fund seminars concerning the development of professional approaches to these topics.
92
APPENDIX A
I
CLASSIFICATIONS
1.	Trades (Certified)
2.	Central Control Room Operator Warehouse Person (Certified)
3.	Shovel Operator (Cable)
Dragline
Crane (1001 Tons, Mobile)
Fourth Year Mechanical Apprentice
Fourth Year Electrical Apprentice Fourth Year Machinist Apprentice Fourth Year Millwright Apprentice
4.	Demag Operator
Rotary Drill Operator Uncertified Trades Module Operator
5.	Front End Loader Operator (+12 yds)
Road Crew Operator Blaster
Third Year Mechanical Apprentice Third Year Electrical Apprentice Third Year Machinist Apprentice
Third Year Millwright Apprentice Third Year Welding Apprentice Third Year Warehouse Apprentice Utility Man 1
6.	Dozer/Grader/RTDOperator
Bradford Breaker Control Room Operator Road Crew Operator 1 Backhoe Operator Maintenance Support Operator
WAGES (per hour) 7/18/95 6/1/96 6/1/97 6/1/98
24.21	24.70	25.19	25.82
23.72	24.19	24.67	25.29
23.14	23.61	24.08 24.68
22.09	22.54 22.99 23.56
21.50	21.93 22.37 22.93
21.02	21.44 21.87 22.42
93
CLASSIFICATIONS
7.	Haul Truck Loadout Operator Tank Drill Crusher Operator Shovel Trainee 1 Demag Trainee 1 Rotary Drill Trainee I Utility Man 2 Second Year Mechanical Apprentice Second Year Electrical Apprentice Second Year Millwright Apprentice Second Year Welding Apprentice Second Year Warehouse Apprentice Second Year Machinist Apprentice
8.	Backhoe Trainee 1	19.58 19.98 20.38 20.88
Dozer/Grader/RTD T rainee 1
Front End Loader Trainee 1 Lube Service
First Year Mechanical Apprentice First Year Electrical Apprentice First Year Machinist Apprentice First Year Millwright Apprentice First Year Welding Apprentice First Year Warehouse Apprentice Dryer Patrolman
9. Screen & Crusher Patrolman	19.25 19.63 20.02 20.53 Road Crew Operator 2
Thickner Patrolman Steam Truck Operator Blaster 1
Mobile Equipment Operator (Plant)
10. Road Crew Operator 3	18.88 19.26 19.64 20.13 Pumps and Magnetite Patrolman
Pit Services Utility Man Utility Man 3
WAGES (per hour)
7/18/95 6/1/96 6/1/97 6/1/98
20.31	20.71 21.13 21.66
94
WAGES (per hour)
CLASSIFICATIONS	7/18/95 6/1/96 6/1/97 6/1/98
11.	Demag Trainee 2	18.16 18.52 18.89 19.36
Rotarv Drill Trainee 2 Front End Loader Trainee 2 Dozer/Grader/RTD Trainee 2 Backhoe Trainee 2 Shovel Trainee 2 Crusher Attendant Steam Bay Attendant
12. Demag Trainee 3	17.81	18.17 18.53 18.99
Shovel Trainee 3
Rotary Drill Trainee 3 Dozer/Grader/RTD Trainee 3 Front End Loader Trainee 3 Backhoe Trainee 3 Dempster Dumpster Blaster Helper
13.	Shift Utility (Plant)	17.46	17.81	18.17	18.62
14. Labourer	17.11	17-45 17-80 18 24
Inter-provincial, Provincial and Territorial Trade Certificates will be recognized.
95
APPENDIX B
TRADES - POSTING WORK ASSIGNMENT AREAS (Article 10.13(r))
MINE MAINTENANCE MECHANICS
Inpit
1)	Running Repair
2)	Preventive Maintenance
3)	Major Repairs
Main Shop
1)	Diesel Mechanical
2)	Diesel Electrical
3)	Predictive Mtce.
Shikano
1)	International Bay
2)	Shop
3)	Component Bay
4)	Running Repair
5)	Field/Major Repair/Preventive Maintenance
6)	Engine Rebuild
MILLWRIGHTS
Shikano
1)	Component Bay
Inpit
WELDERS
1)	Running Repairs
2)	Preventive Maintenance
3)	Major Repairs
Main Shop
1)	Diesel Electrical
2)	Diesel Mechanical
96
Shikano
1)	Shop
2)	Running Repairs
3)	Preventive Maintenance and Major Repairs
4)	Welding Shop
Building Maintenance
Post as required for various trade related jobs.
MINE MAINTENANCE
MACHINIST
1)	Machine Shop
ELECTRICAL
Inpit
1)	Running Repairs
2)	Preventive Maintenance
3)	Major Repairs
Main Shop
1) Mesa/Wolverine Electrical Shikano
1)	Running Repairs
2)	Shikano Electrical
Linemen
GASFITTER
Building Maintenance
PLANT MAINTENANCE PLANT MILLWRIGHTS
1)	Overland
2)	Plant
3)	Dryer
4)	Plant Shift
97
PLANT ELECTRICIANS	
1)	Plant 2)	Shift	PLANT WELDERS
1)	Plant 2)	Dryer 3)	Overland	GASFITTER
1) Shop	SPRINKLER FITTER
1) Plant	WAREHOUSE
Plantsite Warehouse
1)	Shipping and Receiving
2)	Counter
3)	Yard
Main Shop Warehouse
1)	Shipping and Receiving
2)	Counter
3)	Yard
98
APPENDIX C
LINES OF PROGRESSION (Road Crew)
Road Crew Operator
Road Crew Operator I
Road Crew Operator II
A Road Crew Operator Ill
Labourer
Operator III - Water Truck Sand Truck Tandem Dump Packer Boom Truck*
Operator II	- Operator III + Front End Loader + 5 yd
Operator I	- Operator II + Grader and Dozer
Operator - Operator I + Utility Backhoe
*Employees receiving training on the Boom Truck must successfully complete a rigging course.
99
Group #5 Group #4 Goupe #3
Groi p #2 Group #1
PLANT OPERATIONS JOB POSTING LINES OF PROGRESSION (Permanent Vacancies)
X C.C.R,
X Module Patrol
Loadout /Thickener Patrol / X Bradford Breaker
Dryer Patrol / Pumps & Magnetite / Screen & Crusher
A Shift Utility
100
LINES OF PROGRESSION
(Mine Maintenance Department)
MESA/WOLVERINE
SHIKANO
Maintenance		Maintenance	
Support	Operator	Support	Operator
Lube	Service	Lube S	ervice
			
Steam Truck Operator
A Steam Bay Attendant
Labourer
An employee training on Boom Truck must successfully complete a Rigging Course
Steam Bay Attendants, Steam Truck Operators, Lube Service and Maintenance Support Operators wishing to transfer from Mesa/Wolverine to Shikano or vice versa may request a transfer through their supervisor within their current classification.
101
LINES OF PROGRESSION
(Mine Operations Department)
SECTION 1
P&H	DEMAG
OPR. (X)	OPR. (XI
Backup Backup
Trainee 1 Trainee
CRUSHER BLASTER OPERATOR
Tank
Dill
BLASTER 1
A BLASTER A CRUSHER HELPER ATTENDANT
Trainee 2 Trainee 2
ATrainee 3 A Trainee 3
LABOURER
Employee bidding from Section 1 to Section 2 must bid on a Haul Truck posting before becoming eligible for other vacancies in Section 2.
Employees undergoing Boom Truck training must successfully complete a rigging course.
Employees required to use oxy-acetylene torches must successfully complete the prescribed training course.
102
LINES OF PROGRESSION
(Mine Operations Department)
SECTION 2
ROTARY DOZER/GRADER/
BACKHOE 0PR.M DRILL OPR.fXI RTDOPR.m FELOPR.(X) UTILITYMAN1
i.
Backup
Trainee 1 Trainee 2
ATrainee
I
Backup
Trainee 1 Trainee 2
ATrainee 3
Backup Backup
Trainee 1 Trainee 1
I I
Trainee 2 Trainee 2
I
UTILITYMAN 2
ATrainee 3 " ATrainee 3 AUTILITYMAN 3 ____I___________I___________
HAUL TRUCK
Bellydump
Scraper
Terex ■ (Water & Sand)
All employees in Section 2 must be capable of driving Haul Truck.
3
103
APPENDIX D
PLANT OPERATIONS TRAINING LINES OF PROGRESSION
Loadout
A
Dryer
Patrol
x C.C.R.
X Module Operator
\
X Bradfo^ Breaker
Screen & Crusher (Upper)
Thickener Screen &
Patrol Crusher (Lower)
Letter of Understanding
By and Between
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113
Re: Expansion of the Operation
It is recognized that the continued viability of the Company, as well as the continued employment of members of the Union, may be dependent on future expansion of the operation.
The Company understands the Union's stated concern for the security of its membership and agrees to meet with the Union to exchange information regarding labour stability, and both development and production costs of expansions. It is understood that in the event the Company and the Union agree that the project or any portion of the work can be performed by Quintette employees as efficiently as an independent contractor, then such work will be performed by members of the bargaining unit.
Quintette agrees that it will require that all bids contain a provision to accommodate any Quintette employee who may be laid off during the term of this agreement in the contractors work force, provided the laid off employee is qualified to perform the work.
Nothing in this letter abrogates the Unions rights under the Labour Relations Code of British Columbia.
FORTHE COMPANY	FORTHE UNION
R.G. Scott Bill Cooling Tom Broddy Bill Black Bob Taylor Guy Theriault
Glenn Steele Doug Ward Kathleen Kenmuir Rob Mackay Stephen Hunt Will McCauley
105
May24,1995
Mr. Steve Hunt Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1 - 352 Seymour Street Kamloops, B.C.
V2C 2G2
Dear Steve:
This letter will serve as confirmation of the agreement in principle reached at negotiations with regards to the manning of new departments, or new work areas within a department, and reopening of existing pits.
The parties agree that senior qualified employees will be entitled to preference with regards to the manning as referred to above. Such transfers should be effected with the current operation being considered.
With these factors in mind, the parties agree to meet as far in advance as possible to discuss the orderly transfer of senior employees. Such discussions should include, but not be limited to, the posting of a pre-selection list, possible increase in training numbers, and the requirement of transfers.
In all cases of transfers the senior qualified employee indicating preference will be given an approximate transfer date.
Yours truly
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
Bill Cooling Superintendent Employee Relations
BC/kc
106
May 24,1995
Mr. Steve Hunt Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1 - 352 Seymour Street Kamloops, B.C.
V2C 2G2
Dear Steve:
This letter will serve as confirmation of our understanding reached at bargaining with regards to the preparation and presentation of a joint orientation package.
The parties agree to meet within two months of the ratification of the Collective Agreement to complete a package that would outline the role of the Union at the workplace, and the interaction between various departments of the Company and the Union committee's representatives. The parties further agree that such presentations will be done in a professional manner and should be of a duration compatible with the remainder of the orientation process.
Yours truly
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
Bill Cooling Superintendent Employee Relations
BC/kc
107
May24,1995
Mr. Steve Hunt Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1 - 352 Seymour Street Kamloops, B.C.
V2C 2G2
Dear Steve:
This letter will confirm our intent to continue our present practice regarding the departure and return to the dry, of mine operations employees, as follows:
(1)	Employees receive their instructions in sufficient time to board the buses which depart the mine dry at 6:45.
(2)	Buses will commence picking up employees for shift end at 6:45.
(3)	Employees who arrive at the dry after 7:00 at shift end will be paid overtime as provided for in Article 12.02.
Yours truly
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
Bill Cooling Superintendent Employee Relations
BC/kc
108
May 24,1995
Mr. Steve Hunt Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America 1 - 352 Seymour Street Kamloops,B.C.
V2C 2G2
Dear Steve:
Further to our discussions during negotiations concerning the application of Article 7.03(a), the Company recognizes the Union’s concern that it may be inappropriate for a steward to be the sole employee's representative in all circumstances of suspension
In response to this concern, the Company will ensure that if a General Foreman or more senior Management representative is present at a meeting under this Article, a Union Committee person will also be in attendance in accordance with Article 7.03(e).
Yours truly
QUINTET-f-E OPERATING CORPORATION
Bill Cooling Superintendent Employee Relations
BC/kc
109
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
By and Between
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
With respect to our discussions during negotiations, this letter will confirm our understanding of the use of counselling letters to employees.
The purpose of these letters is to formally follow-up a discussion between supervisor and employee, where the supervisor has outlined a problem with the employee’s behavior or performance and has sought to remedy the situation, and if corrected making discipline unnecessary.
These letters are to clearly reflect the contents of the discussion and it is understood that these letters are not considered disciplinary.
FOR THE COMPANY
R.G. Scott
Bill Cooling
TomBroddy
Bill Black
Bob Taylor
Guy Theriault
May 26th, 1995
FOR THE UNION
Glenn Steele Doug Ward Stephen Hunt Will McCauley Kathleen Kenmuir Rob Mackay
110
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
(The Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113 (The Union)
Re: Temporary Recall
The parties agree that should a laid-off employee temporarily return to work, pursuant to Article 3.13, the notice period required by Article 9.09 is waived at the conclusion of the work. In addition, the Company will inform the employee of the approximate duration of the work period, prior to the commencement of the recall.
FOR THE COMPANY
R. G. Scott Bill Cooling Bob Taylor Bill Black Guy Theriault
FOR THE UNION
Glenn Steele Wayne Carpenter James Jordan Stephen Hunt Kathleen Kenmuir Doug Ward Bryan Lee Rob Mackay
July 5th, 1995
111
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
(The Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113 (The Union)
Re: Rental Properties
In recognition of the concerns expressed by the Union regarding rental properties in Tumbler Ridge the Company agrees that monthly rental increases (if any), will be the lesser of the Residential Tenancy Act provisions or $15,00 per month. These increases would become effective on January 1 st of each calendar year for the duration of the Agreement.
The parties agree that all disputes between the Company and the employee, concerning the rental of residential property owned or controlled by the Company, shall first be referred to arbitration pursuant to the Residential Tenancy Act.
FOR THE COMPANY
R. G. Scott Bill Cooling Bob Taylor Bill Black Tom Broddy Guy Theriault
July 5th, 1995
FOR THE UNION
Glenn Steele James Jordan Kathleen Kenmuir Stephen Hunt Wayne Carpenter Doug Ward Bryan Lee Rob Mackay
112
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
(The Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113 (The Union)
Re: Call-Outs
When call-out work is performed, there will be an elapsed period of eight (8) hours between the end of the call-out and the employee’s next regularly scheduled shift. If the regular shift begins before the expiration of this period, the employee’s regular earnings will be maintained, to a maximum of eight (8) hours.
In the event that an employee is called out to work within four (4) hours of the commencement of his regularly scheduled shift, the parties agree that the employee, after arrangements with his supervisor, may leave work after having worked a total of hours equal to his regularly scheduled shift. It is understood that any such leave will be without pay.
FOR THE COMPANY
R.G. Scott
Bill Cooling
Bob Taylor
Bill Black
Tom Broddy
Guy Theriault
July 5th, 1995
FOR THE UNION
Glenn Steele James Jordan Kathleen Kenmuir Stephen Hunt Wayne Carpenter Doug Ward Bryan Lee Rob Mackay
113
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
(The Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113 (The Union)
Re: Permanent Lay-offs
In recognition of the concerns expressed by the Company, the Parties agree that in the event notice of layoff is given, which will result in the termination of employment of fifty (50) or more employees in any two (2) month period, Article 9.09 (a, b, c and d) will not apply, except in respect to the severance entitlement.
In this instance only the provisions of the Employment Standards Act will be followed.
FOR THE UNION
Glenn Steele James Jordan Kathleen Kenmuir Stephen Hunt Wayne Carpenter Doug Ward Rob Mackay Bryan Lee
July 5th, 1995
FOR THE COMPANY
R.G. Scott
Bill Cooling Bob Taylor Bill Black Tom Broddy Guy Theriault
114
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
(The Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113
Re: Christmas Day. Boxing Day and New Year’s Day
With respect to our discussions during negotiations, this letter will confirm our understanding regarding employee scheduling for the above
noted statutory holidays.
The Company will give two (2) weeks notice whether or not the operations will work on these days. In the event of reduced operations, the Company will, from the crews normally scheduled to work, provide the senior qualified employees the option to work. Failing sufficient manpower, the employees with the least department seniority on the crew, who are qualified, will be required to work.
It is further recognized that “one-way" mutuals will be permitted amongst qualified employees for these shifts.
The parties also agree that for Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New
Year’s Day, only, that these statutory holidays will commence at 7:00pm on the eve of the statutory holiday and terminate twenty four (24) hours thereafter.
(The Union)
Guy
i
Bill Cooling Bob Taylor Bill Black Tom
COMPANY
FORTHE UNION
Glenn Steele James Jordan Kathleen Kenmuir Stephen Hunt Wayne Carpenter Doug Ward Rob Mackay Bryan Lee
July 5th, 1995
115
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
(The Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113 (The Union)
Re: Final Closure of the Mine
The parties agree that the dismantling of the mine may be done by bargaining unit employees, provided the employees have the skills to do the work safely and the Company has the expertise, tools, and equipment to do the work.
This will not apply in situations where the Company has sold, and is no longer the owner of the equipment, buildings, infrastructure, etc. In these situations, the Company will encourage the owner or contractor on site, to hire laid off employees to do the work.
The parties agree to discuss the practicability of any projects that may be undertaken and commit to explore all options that will permit employees the opportunity to work.
All concerns involving this work will be referred to the Joint
llnion/Management Committee referred to in Article 18.03.
The parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the 5th day of July,
1995.
FOR ;&COMPANY R.G
Bill Cooling Bob Taylor Bill Black Tom Broddy Guy Theriault
July 5th, 1995
FOR THE UNION Glenn Steele James Jordan Kathleen Kenmuir Stephen Hunt Wayne Carpenter Doug Ward Rob Mackay Bryan Lee
116
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
(The Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113 (The Union)
The parties to this Letter of Understanding have reached an agreement in regards to the indenturing of apprentices.
It is agreed that when an employee is awarded an apprenticeship and then successfully completes his apprenticeship and there is no work available in his trade or the Company is reducing the size of its operations, the employee will be reduced from his trade.
An employee that is reduced from his trade pursuant to this letter may exercise his Company seniority and displace the most junior employee in an entry level job or elect to be laid off.
The parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the 25th day of May, 1995.
FOR THE COMPANY
R.G. Scott
Bill Cooling
Bob Taylor
Bill Black
Tom Broddy
Guy Theriault
May 12th, 1995
FOR THE UNION Glenn Steele James Jordan Kathleen Kenmuir Stephen Hunt Wayne Carpenter Doug Ward Bryan Lee Rob Mackay
117
May25,1995
United Steelworkers of America Local 9113 Box 1810
Tumbler Ridge, B.C.
VOC 2W0
Attention: Glenn Steele Dear Glenn:
Re: Plant Maintenance Electrician
It is the desire of the Company to ensure that all electricians in Plantsite Maintenance will be qualified to perform instrument mechanic functions.
Accordingly, the Company will assess all electricians to determine their individual skills inventory and further will advise each electrician as to the level of their skills pertinent to instrumentation.
The Company agrees to provide in-house training to develop proper proficiency levels for all electricians in the instrumentation field.
Yours truly
QUINTET-FE OPERATING CORPORATION
Bill Cooling Superintendent Employee Relations
BC/kc
118
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
(The Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113 (The Union)
Re: Warranty
In recognition of the concerns expressed by the Union, the parties agree it can be beneficial to meet and explain warranties, on the request of the Union.
The purpose of these meetings is to explain the aspects of the warranty. With this understanding, the Union has the opportunity to advise the Company of its concerns for consideration within the terms of reference outlined in Article 3.12.
FORTHE UNION
Glenn Steele James Jordan Kathleen Kenmuir Stephen Hunt Wayne Carpenter Doug Ward Bryan Lee Rob Mackay
July 5th, 1995
FOR THE COMPANY
R.G. Scott Bill Cooling Bob Taylor Bill Black Tom Broddy Guy Theriault
119
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113
Re: Duty to Accommodate
The Company recognizes its duty to accommodate employees with disabilities. Accordingly it is agreed that where an employee may be absent due to non-occupational sickness or accident for a period of one hundred and four (104) weeks, the Company will make every reasonable effort to provide the employee with suitable employment, provided such employment would not cause undue hardship to the Company
The Union agrees to assist the Company during this process by making recommendations that may help the disabled employee return to the workplace. If the Company is unable to accommodate the employee, after making every reasonable effort, it may take whatever actions it deems appropriate up to and including discharge of the employee as per Article 9.06(g).
(The Company) AND
(The Union)
tt
Bill Cooling Bob Taylor Bill Black Tom
COMPANY
Guy
FORTHE UNION
Glenn Steele Stephen Hunt Bryan Lee Rob Mackay Kathleen Kenmuir James Jordan Wayne Carpenter Doug Ward
July 5th, 1995
120
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
(The Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113 (The Union)
Re: Modified Return To Work Program and Alternate Work Assignments
Either the Company or the Union may recommend a candidate who has been absent from the workplace for more than eight (8) weeks, whether for occupational or non-occupational medical reasons.
Upon recommendation from either party, the Company, the Union and the employee agree to meet prior to the employee's return to the workplace.
Based on the employee’s attending physician’s input, the employee's present physical capabilities and their present skills and abilities, the parties will review the return to work to ensure the proposed assignment is consistent with medical circumstances.
Normally the employee where possible will be returned to his classification, however, if the employee cannot return to his regular classification the parties will review and discuss alternate work assignments.
It is agreed the Workers’ Compensation Board or other outside medical resources can be of assistance in considering the above circumstances.
Union representatives involved in such meetings will suffer no loss of regular earnings while in attendance at such meetings. If
121
attending on their days off, they will receive their regular straight time rate for actual hours spent at the meeting. Such hours will not be used for the calculation of overtime.
FOR THE COMPANY
R.G. Scott
Bill Cooling
Tom Broddy
Bill Black
Bob Taylor
Guy Theriault
May 25th, 1995
FOR THE UNION Bob Mackay Kathleen Kenmuir Glenn Steele Stephen Hunt Wayne Carpenter Doug Ward Will McCauley
122
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
(The Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113 (The Union)
Re: Engine Rebuild
With respect to our discussion during negotiations specific to the Engine Rebuild work assignment area, the parties agree that in the event of a reduction in other work assignment areas which could affect Engine Rebuild, the Company may ensure that a new employee to this area meets the requirements of the area as described in Article 10.13(c). Where a demonstrable difference in qualification is shown by the Company, the employee who is by-passed in favour of an employee with less seniority shall be notified in writing as to the reasons he was not accepted. In any case where a senior employee is denied a job in favour of an employee with less seniority the decision may be grieved.
FOR THE COMPANY
R. G. Scott Bill Cooling TomBroddy Bill Black Guy Theriault Bob Taylor
May 12th, 1995
FOR THE UNION
Wayne Carpenter Rob Mackay Kathleen Kenmuir Doug Ward Stephen Hunt Glenn Steele Will McCauley
123
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
By and Between
QUINTETTE OPERATING CORPORATION
(The Company)
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 9113 (The Union)
Re: Tentative Agreement
The bargaining committees agree to recommend the following
terms of agreement to their principals without reservation:
1.	All items agreed prior to July 5,1995 shall form part of the agreement.
2.	Article 8.08 shall be amended to increase the hours paid to 360 hours effective' August 1,1995 and to include a deceler-ator effective January 1,1997 to reduce payment by 30 hours for each reduction of 50 employees. The- minimum payment shall be 72 hours per month if 1000 manhours are worked in that month.
3.	Articles 9.04(b) and 9.06(g) are qualified by the Letter of
Understanding which is attached.
4.	Article 12.05(c) will have a new provision added to provide a minimum of 4 hours pay if the employee begins work on that shift.
5.	Article 14.02 shall be amended effective August 1,199(5 to provide 8% vacation pay after 9 years and 9% for 10 years+.
6.	The agreement shall include a new Letter of Understanding regarding rental properties which is attached.
7.	The agreement shall also include a Letter of Understanding regarding Article 9.09 which is attached.
124
8.	Article 17.01(c) shall be amended to read $100 effective
August 1,1995 and $125 effective June 1,1997.
9.	Article 17.01(d) shall be amended to read Plan “C” $1800
effective August 1,1995 and Plans “A” and “B” $1700 effective Junel, 1998.
10.	Article 17.01 (e) shall be amended to read $575 effective June 1,1996 and $600 effective June 1,1997. Wl shall be taxed at source.
11.	Article 17.01(f) shall be amended to read $1300 effective August 1,1995 and $1400 Junel, 1998.
12.	Article 17.01(g) shall be amended to read $45,000 effective August 1,1995, $46,000 effective June 1,1996, $48,000 effective June 1,1997 and $50,000 effective June 1,1998.
13.	Article 18.09 shall be amended to read $6.00 effective June 1,1995 and $7.00 effective June 1,1998.
14.	Article 18.18 shall be amended to read $125 effective January 1,1996.
15.	Individual wage reclassifications shall be MSO from classification 7 to classification 6. Dryer Patrol from classification 9 to classification 8. Warehouseman from classification 4 to classification 2. (Mr. Red MacEachern shall continue to be included in this classification.) Mr. Bob Giles shall be reclassified to classification 9 on an “incumbent only” basis. All rate adjustments to be effective June 1,1995.
16.	The term of the agreement shall be from June 1,1995 to
May31,1999.	'
17.	Article 18.16 shall be amended to provide 10+ years 1 -6.5% effective July 18,1995.
18.	General wage increases shall be 2% effective July 18, 1995,2% June 1,1996,2% June 1,1997 and 2.5% June 1, 1998.
19.	All active employees (excluding employees on LTD) at the
125
date of ratification shall be paid a lump sum of $500. The lump sum will be paid prior to August 1,1995.
20.	The agreement regarding maintenance of wages shall be destroyed after ratification.
21.	All items are to be effective from the date of ratification unless otherwise specified.
Signed in Ft. St. John, B.C. this 6th
FOR THE COMPANY
R.G. Scott
Bill Cooling
Bob Taylor
Bill Black
Tom Broddy
Guy Theriault
day of July 1995, FOR THE UNION Stephen Hunt Glenn Steele Bryan Lee Rob Mackay Kathleen Kenmuir James Jordan Wayne Carpenter Doug Ward
126
INDEX
CLAUSE	PAGE
Accidental, Death and Dismemberment...................68
Address, Employees Layoff.............................69
Apprenticeship Program, Selection.....................77
Arbitration, Arbitrators..............................11
Benefits..............................................66
Bereavement, Leave & Pay..............................51
Blast Crew Vacancies..................................88
Boots. Allowance......................................77
Breaks: Coffee. Lunch.................................39
Bulletin. Boards.................................... .15
Call Out............................................ .40
Change In Job Content.................................90
Compensation Claim Information........................64
Committee. Grievance..................................13
Committee, Joint Safety, Health	& Environment.........52
Committee. Trades................................... .92
Contracting Out........................................5
Dental Plan...........................................67
Designated Individuals.................................2
Disabled. Employee....................................68
Discipline & Discharge................................12
Discrimination, Intimidation, Harassment, Favouritism...1 5
Disputes. Settlement of................................7
Dues...................................................3
Duration of Agreement.................................89
Employee Definition....................................1
Employee and Family Assistance Program................72
-atalities............................................55
Floating Holidays.....................................44
Glasses............................................. .63
Grievance Committee...................................13
Grievance, Discharge..................................12
Grievance, Discipline.................................12
Grievance, Group...................................... 9
127
Grievance, Interpretation, Procedure...........
Grievance, Policy, Time Limits.................
Grievance, Time Off............................
Group, Life Insurance..........................
Health and Welfare, Benefits
Hours Of Work..................................
Humanity Fund..................................
Job Postings...................................
Job Vacancy .Forms.............................
Jury Duty....
Labour Relations Enhancement Fund..............
Lay Off, Severance.............................
Leadhands .....................................
Leave Of Absence...............................
Leave of Absence, Bereavement..................
Leave of Absence, Maternity....................
Leave of Absence, Paternity....................
Leave of Absence, Spousal Vacation.............
Leave of Absence, Union........................
Letters Of Understanding (see table of contents)
Lines Of Progression, Job Postings.............
Lines Of Progression, Maintenance..............
Lines Of Progression, Mine Operations..........
Lines Of Progression, Processing Plant.........
Lines Of Progression, Road Crew................
Lockouts.......................................
Long Term Disability...........................
Management Rights..............................
Medicals.......................................
Medicare.......................................
Modified Return To Work........................
Mutuals........................................
Overtime ......................................
Overtime, Meals
Pay, Reporting.................................
Pay, Severance.................................
Payment, Meeting Attendance....................
......9
....10
....10
68
66
.37
.77
.....27
30
51
92
....19
79
....48
.....51
....51
....51
.50
....50
......ii
.24
.101
102
.104
.....99
..7
....68
..... 3
56
.... 66
....65
72
40
40
....40
.... 19
.7,62,70
128
Payment, Staff Working,.,
Payroll, Deduction........
Permanent Postings........
Permanent Shutdown ... Preamble.
...2.
73
36
19
ill
Premiums, Saturday, Sundan"Night Shift..................43
Protiatiffrrary Period..'..:........................    10
Recall...................................„„„...........
Recognition of Union.................................... .
Safety and Health.......................................g2
Safety, Accident Investigations.........................57
Safety, Access To Property..............................59
Safety, Committee Pay.................................""63
Safety, Committee.......................................52
Safety, Complaint Form..............a..................65
Safety, Coverall Program.,..............................61
Safety, Crew Meetings...................................58
Safety, Cycle Inspection Tours..........................63
Safety, Disputes........................................5g
Safety, Dust Control Program............................54
Safety Equipment and Apparel............................g1
Safety, Information Supplied............................57
Safety, Inspection Tours................................53
Safety, Lockout Procedure.............................. 59
Safety, Medical Examinations/Pay....................... 55
Safety, Mines Inspector Tours...........................50
Safety, Monitoring Techniques............’.............56
Safety, Quarterly Meetings,.........*.*................58
Safety, Replacement Of Clothing........................g-|
Safety, Reportable Accidents/lncidents..................56
Safety, Right To Refuse Unsafe Work.....................59
Safety, Safety Glasses................................  63
Safety, Unable To Complete Shift....................... qi
Savings Plan.........................................   73
Seniority,............|.................. .............
Seniority, Displacing & Transferring....................17
Shift Change..........................................  4^
129
...38
starting ^Imes...................................38
Shift, 3	.................... ..............^
SickBenefit............•. ..................'	.43
Statutory Holidays, Holidaypay.........................14
Stewards................'.................................j
Strikes.
Students Suspensions
P.hflnQ©
Termination .Wages 3
Tool Allowance TradesPostingSystem Training TrainingFree^jjy0|untary Training Pay Travel Allowance
Union, Payment......
Union, Representation
Union, Security.....
Vacancies,Temporary Vacation
Vacation, Buy Out Vacation, Eligibility Vacation, Entitlement
Vacation, Pay......
Vacation, Scheduling
VisionCare.........
Wages..............
Wages Pay Day
12._
90
.69
70. .96 s.t. ,81 .71 72 ....3 ' ..14
....3
...35
46
.48
46
47
48 47.. '._66 .93 ..70 ,78
Wages ApprenticeshipProgram..........-.............^
Weekly Indemnity..................................37
Work, Hours Of..................................... .64
Workers’Compensation Board, Dispute In Writing
Workers’ compensation Board, Representation.......-64
Work, Emergency...................................
Work Schedules...................;.................
130