OURCE
AGREEMENT*
EMPLOYEES
O M 3 R E
'EMPLOYES
BETWE AR MIN
WESTAR
(BALMER OPERATIONS) SPARWOOD, B.C.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
LOCAL 7292

Mining
00195(02)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article
Page
1	Purpose of Agreement
2	Scope of Agreement
3	Management Rights.,
4	Union Security and Check-Off
5	Adjustment of Grievances........
6	Employees to Care for Mine......
7	Pensions........................
8	Seniority.......................
9	Cessation of Work...............
10	Reporting Pay and Minimum Daily Pay.
11	Holidays.......................
12	Vacations......................
13	Rates of Pay ...................
14	Hours of Work and Overtime.....
15	Safety.........................
16	Employee Conditions.............
17	Insurance Benefits..............
18	Leave of Absence................
19	Job Postings....................
20	Training .....................
21	Saving Clause...................
22	Absenteeism....................
23	Christmas Bonus,................
24	Severance Pay...................
25	Termination Benefit.............
26	Duration of Agreement...........
Appendix “A” Wage Scale &Job Groups
Appendix "B” Pension Plan..........
Appendix "C” Job Vacancy Posting ..
1
1
11
11
13
16
16
17
21
21
23
26
31
34
37
41
47
49
50
53
60
60
61
61
63
■C6jP
67
71
95
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article
Letter of Agreement Re: O v e r t i m e	97
Letter of Agreement
Re: Oiler Trainee... Letter of Agreement
Re: Vacation Entitlement	...
Letter of Agreement
Re: Statutory Holiday/Vacation ... Letter of Agreement
Re: Apprenticeship	...
Letter of Agreement
Re: Chainman Training Program.	. ..
Letter of Agreement
Re: Direct Bank Deposit System.	.. .
Letter of Agreement Re: A c e Explosives Ltd Letter of Agreement
Re: Marshalling Points, Shift Schedules, and Seniority
Letter of Agreement He:	Foreman
Letter of Agreement
Re: Printing copies of Collective Agreement Letter of Agreement Re: Lump Sum Payment Appendix “D" 12 Hour Shift Schedule
Page
98 100 101 103 105 107 109
1 12 114 1 16
117
118
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
It is the intent of the parties and the purpose of this Agreement to preserve and continue the harmonious relations existing between the parties; to ensure peaceful adjustment and settlement of grievances, claims, disputes and differences which may arise between Employer and its employees represented by the Union; to prevent stoppages and Interruptions of work, strikes and lockouts; anti to establish wages, hours and working conditions which shall prevail during the term hereof for the employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 2
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
2.01	This Agreement covers all hourly-rated production and maintenance employees of the Employer hired for its mining operations in the Michel-Natal-Elk Prairie, British Columbia area.
2.02	For greater certainty, the following classifications are excluded from this bargaining unit and from the scope of this Agreement.
1.	Office staff (OTEU, Local 378)
2 Surveyors (OTEU, Local 378)
3.	Assayers (OTEU, Local 378)
4.	Unit Foreman (Firebosses)
5.	Janitorial services presently contracted out at Reclamation, Main Office, Security, Training and the Michel Office,
6.	Watchmen and Security Staff
7.	Supervisory employees, who shall include employees with the authority to hire, discharge, promote, discipline or otherwise effect changes in the status of employees or who may effectively recommend a change in status or disciplinary action (Foreman and above).
2.03	This Agreement shall also apply to any employees of contractors, subcontractors, assignees or transferees of work performed by the employees of Employer as it pertains to the certification granted for the Union. Work performed by the employees of the Employer will not be sublet except to contractors, subcontractors, assignees or transferees who have a collective agreement with Local 7292 ll.M.W.A. coveting their bargaining unit employees on the Employer’s property.
2.04	The Scope of the Agreement is not intended as a wedge to displace employees of Employer but rather, where justification to subcontract exists, to require subcontractors to sign and abide by the terms and conditions of a Collective Agreement signed with Local 7292 U.M.W.A.
2.05	In the application of sections 2.03 and 2.04 the parties agree to follow the procedures set out in Letter of Understanding “A” which is attached and forms part of this Agreement.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING “A”
This letter of understanding sets out the policies and procedures agreed to be applicable to Sections 2.03 and 2.04 of the Collective Agreement.
2
1.	Except as specified In point three of this Letter of Understanding, the Union will be notified by the Employer of all contracts or subcontracts to be let by the Employer The Employer will also advise the Union of the reasons for the contract or subcontract.
2.	Except as specified in this Letter of Understanding, in point three no work within the scope of this Agreement can be contracted or subcontracted out without the Union's permission. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed by the Union
The following are the types of factors the parties agree are relevant to a consideration of "reasonableness1’. This is not an exhaustive list.
(1)	Availability of equipment to perform the work;
(2)	availability ot employees with present skill to perform the work;
(3)	availability of facilities for performing the work;
(4)	the requirement for undue or inequitable distribution of overtime beyond the usual practice;
(5)	surges and overloads of work.
3.	It is understood and agreed that Clauses 1 and 2 of this Letter of Understanding do not apply to the following items or funtions described below, and that the Employer may contract out these items or functions without seeking or obtaining the Union’s permission:
I. MAINTENANCE
--All warranty work provided that the warranty is for a normal period and the Company will verify such warranty if requested by the Union.
3
The work is restricted to that which is required to repair the failed component.
Westar employees remove and install the components where such action will not void the warranty as per past practice.
With respect to new Caterpillar equipment, the warranty is only for the first six (6) months the new equipment is on the Company property.
Engine Rebuilds:
- VT 1710 -Company is phasing these engines out. EMD
Cummins K-during 1980 M1 00-M200 Planetaries D.C. Motors &Controls
Relays
Undercutting and Balancing Armatures Miscellaneous D C. Equipment Gear Boxes - Elkview during 1980 Only - Note -Michel Effective Jan. 1,1981 -Breaker Gear Boxes Station 250 H.P.
and above.
Pumps - Elkview during 1980 Only - Note
Michel Effective Jan. 1,1980 all multi stage pumps as per past practice.
4
Injectors
Radiators
Aftercoolers
Oil Coolers
Heater Cores
Brake Shoes (Bonded)
Hoist Drums (Shovel)
Deck Bushings and Stabilizers Governors (EMD - Cummins)
Swing Frames and Cat Tracks Hydraulic Cylinders -Chroming and Testing Front Suspensions and Spindles Clutch Plates Testing Crane Booms Camshaft Grinding Crankshaft Grinding Power Packs (EMD) during 1980 Boilers Installations and special repairs of boilers that cannot be done by Westar Mining Ltd. employees.
Air Filters
Conveyor Vulcanized splices as per present Turbos (EMD)
Rewinding & field coils Pressure Vessel Welding
Magnafluxing (Magnafluxing 1980, as per past practice 1981 field only)
Ultrasonic Testing Seats & Seat Covers-Cushions Drill Steel Rebuild/Repair Transmission Repair FLP Horizontal/Line Boring
Vehicle Body work/Painting-major repairs only Motor Repair (FLP)
Light Duty Servicing overload only
Transformer Repair
Torque Converts - overload beyond capacity of present facility.
Engine Head Repair -as past practice Cat Rollers
Boom Pendant Sockets Respirator Maint.
Axle Boxes
Magna Torques as per past practice Water meter Repair
Diesel Pump Repair as per past practice Brake Drums (Grinding -Seating)
Jaws of Life Maintenance Saddle Block Line Bores Circuit Breakers
Audio/Visual Equipment Maintenance Traction Motor Frames - Haulage trucks only as per past practice.
Water Purifiers
Gas Pump Repair
Alternator Repair (heavy duty)
Starter Repair (heavy duty)
Vacuum Pump Maintenance Elkview & Michel -Major Maintenance only as per past practice Fiberglassing
Major Refractory Elkview Drier only Wheel Rims
Truck cabs & doors - Major repair only, Westar Mining Ltd. employees do all installation and removal.
Heat Treating Electronic Diagnostics
Major off site cat repair - Redamation/Exploration as per past practice.
Snubber Arms
6
Compressor Repair, other than reciprocal Shock subs repair drills only Interpoles
Stress relieving as per past practice Exciters as per past practice Specialty/Grinding i.e. motor block Snubbers
Transmissions RT910 - for Kenworth (one type of truck)
Rear Differentials - as per past practice. Carburetors as per past practice.
Air cooled engines - 4 cylinder Wisconsin - as per past practice.
Machining Tires and trunions - breaker station Hydraulic Pumps \ Overload beyond capacity Hydraulic Valves / of present facility Synchronous Condensor as per past practice Repair FLP Engines - Major rebuild only Con Rods-Magnaflux Alignment Check Shipper Shafts Head Pulley lagging
Pressing Major Shafts - installing/removing bearings etc. as per past practice.
Sprockets -Crawler equipment
Major Mast Rebuild drills as per past practice
Rotary Gear Case Drills
Track Slides Drills
Point Sheaves - Shovel
Brake Spiders
Gantry Equalizers -Shovel
Centre Pin and Nuts -Shovel
Electric Motor Couplings - as per past practice
Hoist Anchors - Haulage Truck
Water Pump-Cooling systems exchange
Specialized small tool repair Dart Loaders - Present loaders only.
High speed balancing on elect/Mech. Equipment
II.	PRODUCTION
Crane Rental with operator-over 140 ton Dump Supervisors Rail Transportation - Elkview Explosive Mixing & Delivery - Ace Explosives, Harmer
U/G Coal Haul - Sowchuk Trucking Oxidized Coal Haul Sowchuk Trucking, from Harmer Screening Plant to Elkview only. Coarse Refuse Haul - emergency, breakdown,
Elkview
Magnetite unloading
Stockpiling, clean coal, Elkview, past practice Coal Haulage from other than present operations, as Sowchuk has performed in the past. III.
III.	NEW CONSTRUCTION
Major projects, defined as the complete building of the new Panel 6 dry, the new Westar Mining Ltd. main office, new warehouse, or such similar major projects may be contracted out if the Company so desires.
If contracted out, all work must be done by employees who belong to other recognized Unions or by U.M.W.A. members. Where such employees are members of other recognized Unions, they shall pay monthly union dues to the U.M.W.A., Local 7292. Should there be any dispute as to whether a project may be contracted out under this clause, then the parties agree to proceed forthwith to arbitration.
8
The arbitrator is to determine the “reasonableness” as herein defined of the Union in withholding consent to contract out. Should the parties fail to agree to an arbitrator within forty-eight (48) hours, then either party will apply to the Minister of Labour to appoint an arbitrator.
Both parties will use their best efforts to expedite the arbitration. Both parties will request the arbitrator to make an “on the spot” decision. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final.
IV	ENVIRONMENTAL
Helicopter Seeding Helicopter Fertilizing
Tree failing and Slashing - as per past practice, except that the Company recognized that the Reclamation does a lot of this work and that this practice will continue.
Heavy Earth Moving (Dykes, Lagoons and associated roads) V
V	OTHER
-	Transportation as per past practice
-	Snow Removal as presently being performed at
Harmer blast areas - Warehouse yards - Main office - Panel 6.
House coal haul -Scrap removal
-	Garbage removal by the municipality at the Main
office, Elkview Chalet, Prep. Plant, Main Gate and as per past practice.
-All Communications/Data Processing - installation and maintenance
-	Water Softeners & Purifiers
-	Repairs of Scientific Equipment
9
-Tires (Major Repairs and Sections)
-Oil Analysis -Exploration Drilling
Underground toilet and septic tank service
- Utilities installation	Calgary Power
and maintenance as B.C. Hydro per past practice	B.C. Tel
Columbia Natural Gas Municipality
-	Sprinkler Installation and Maintenance Fire Protection
-Specialty Painting
-	Masonry except By Products, Michel
Boilers and Elkview Drier -Gas Pipeline insulation
-	Demolition eg. Michel Tipple
-	Roof repair - new roof, hot seal or total roof repair as per past practice
-	Laundry Service
4. It is understood and agreed that this Letter of Understanding is intended to deal only with work which falls within the scope of this Collective Agreement.
If such work is done on Westar Mining Ltd. property those persons performing that work must belong to the U.M.W.A. except for those persons performing work identified in 3, (III) of this Letter “New Construction”.
This Letter of Understanding may be amended at any time by mutual agreement of the parties.
10
ARTICLE 3
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union recognizes the sole and exclusive right of the Employer to operate and manage its business in all respects as it sees fit, including the right to hire, discipline or discharge for just and sufficient cause, and to make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, except that this right shall not supersede any other provision of this Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 4
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
4.01	The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees as defined in Article 2.01 of this Agreement.
i i ■
4.02	All employees covered by this Agreement shall become members of the Union and shall remain members of the Union as a condition of employment.
4.03	The Employer will honor written assignments of wages for Union dues, assessments and fines and shall remit such dues, assessments and fines to the Union monthly, together with information as to the persons from whose pay such deductions have been made. This obligation is subject to the Labour Code of B.C All such deductions shall be remitted to the Union by the 15th day of the month following the month in which such deductions were made.
s
11	" f
4.04	The Union shall indemnify the Employer and hold it harmless against any and all suits, claims, demands and liabilities that shall arise out of or by reason of any action taken or not taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with any provision of this Article 4.
4.05	The Employer will arrange for new employees to sign deduction assignment forms upon employment with the Company and will forward the executed documents to the Union.
4.06	The Employer will grant leave of absence without pay to employees who are:
(a)	Appointed or elected to Union office except that
not more than six (6) employees at any one time will be granted such leave;	/
(b)	appointed or elected as representatives .to attend
Union meetings, conventions, or Union business except that not more than twenty-five (25) employees at any one time will be granted such leave and not more than three (3) employees from the same job classification;	/
(c)	elected or appointed to Town Council: Hospital or School Boards;
(d)	one (1) weeks notice for such leave of absence will be given to the employer except that the company will not unreasonably withhold permission for such leave with less than one (1) weeks notice provided that the Union was not aware of the required leave one (1) week in advance.
4.07	Employees who are elected or appointed to full-time Union office within the U.M.W.A. shall be granted a leave of absence without pay on request as provided in 4 06 (a) above. Employees on such leave shall
12
continue to accrue seniority and service with the Employer. Such employees may make arrangements to continue to participate in the Employer Welfare and Insurance plans of this Agreement provided that prior arrangements are made by such employee or the Union to bear the full cost of premiums and/or contributions for such plans.
4.08	Employees granted a leave of absence under Article
4.06	(a) must return to work within two (2) months after the expiration of such Union appointment.
4.09	(a) When hired, all employees shall report to the
Union office before commencing work.
(b) The Employer shall issue each new employee one (1) copy of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 5
ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
5.01	Purpose
It is the intent and purpose of this Article 5 which shall be available both to the Union and the Employer to provide for the presentation and equitable adjustment of grievances. Should any differences arise between the Employer and the Union as to the meaning or application of the provisions of this Agreement or as to any questions relating to the wages, hours of work or other conditions of employment of any employee, the same shall be disposed of in accordance with the provision of this Article 5
5.02	Grievance Committee
The Grievance Committee shall consist of not more than twenty (20) employees, duly elected, from the
13
mine and/or plant. In addition, the local Union officers may act on the Committee, The Union must advise the Employer, in writing, which employees are selected for the Grievance Committee. Until such notice is received by the Company such employee will not be recognized as a grievance committee man.
5.03	Duties
The duties of the grievance committeeman shall be confined to the purpose as set forth in 5.01 above, and he shall be allowed to process a grievance during shift if the grievor makes the request to his foreman. The foreman shall arrange the meeting during the shift.
5.04	Step 1
Within five (5) working days of the alleged grievance, the employee, who may be accompanied by his steward if he so desires, may present the grievance either verbally or in writing to his foreman. Failing settlement to the employee's satisfaction within five (5) days, the employee may proceed to Step 2. In discharge cases, Step 1 will be by-passed and Step 2 will take precedence.
5.05	Step 2
Wthin five (5) working days from the time settlement could have been made in the previous step, the appeal shall be reduced in writing, dated, stating what contractual provision has been violated and signed by the employee, grievance committeeman or Local Union officer and submitted to Industrial Relations and the department supervisor who handled Step 1. A meeting shall be arranged within ten (10) working
14
days of receipt of notice of appeal to hear the appeal and determine a just disposition. The meeting shall consist of representatives of the Union, and the Company, and the employee. Either party may produce any persons familiar with the facts involved to aid in a just solution. The Employer shall reply within ten (10) working days to the Union and the employee.
Failing a satisfactory settlement or reply at this stage, the matter must be referred to arbitration within a further fourteen (14) days, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.06 - Step 3 or the matter shall be deemed abandoned.
5.06	Steo 3
An impartial umpire shall be appointed by mutual agreement of the parties hereto and whose decision shall be final. In the event mutual agreement cannot be reached on an umpire, it is agreed that either party may upon five (5) days written notice to the other party, request tho Minister of Labour of the Province of British Columbia to appoint such umpire. The umpire shall have jurisdiction and authority only to interpret, apply or determine compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, and such local working conditions as may hereafter be in effect, insofar as shall be necessary to determination of grievances appealed to the umpire. The umpire shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to, detract from or alter the provisions of this Agreement. The expenses and salary extent of the services of the umpire shall be shared equally by the Employer and the Union.
15
5.07	Policy Grievance
In the event that any differences arise between the Union and the Employer as to the meaning and/or application of the provisions of this Agreement or as to any questions relating to the wages, hours of work or other conditions of employment of any employee, the Union or the Employer shall have the right to present a Policy grievance.
Policy grievances must be presented to the other party within five (5) working days of the alleged incident that initiated the difference.
The Employer and the Union shall meet within ten (10) days after the presentation of the Policy Grievance to try to resolve the dispute. If the parties fail to agree at this meeting, either party may submit the grievance to arbitration in accordance to section 5.06 above.
ARTICLE 6
EMPLOYEES TO CARE FOR MINE
6.01	In the case of either local, general or emergency suspension of mining either at the expiration of this Agreement or otherwise, the Employer and the Union will mutually agree to the employees that are necessary to preserve the Employer's property and such employees will not suspend work
ARTICLE 7
PENSION
7.01	It is understood and agreed that the terms and con-
16
ditions of Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, U.M.W.A., Retirement and Benefit Plan as set out in the Trust Deed and/or Appendix "B" and the various additions and amendments thereto, shall be a part of this Agreement.
7.02	The Company shall pay the employees' contribution to the Canada Pension Plan.
7.03	The Agreement on the Welfare & Retirement Fund of District 18, United Mine Workers of America, between the United Mine Workers of America, District 18 and the Mine Operators, is hereby incorporated into this Agreement.
ARTICLE 8 SENIORITY
8.01	Seniority shall be determined on the basis of length of continuous service with the Employer and shall commence twenty (20) shifts worked after the date of employment, but when commenced shall date from the date of employment. In the event of a force reduction during this period, the last man hired will be the first man laid off.
8.02	Continuous service of an employee shall bd broken by:
1)	A resignation or “quit”.
2)	Discharge.
3)	Retirement.
4)	A layoff for a period in excess of six (6) months if the employee does not notify the Employer of his status at least once every six (6) months.
5)	Failure to report to work within ten (10) days from
17
the date of a written notice to return to work after a layoff. Written notice will be in the form of a registered letter with return receipt requested, sent to the last address given by the employee to the Employer. It is the employee's responsibility to keep the Employer advised of his current address.
6)	Absence extending beyond an authorized vacation period or beyond a leave of absence granted by the Employer.
7)	Absence due to disability other than Workers' Compensation if the employee does not notify the Employer of his status at least once every six (6) months.
8)	A transfer to a position within the Company, which is exempt from coverage under this Agreement for a period in excess of four (4) months, provided however that on returning to a position within the unit through Article 19 such employee will be credited with such seniority as he had accrued at the time of such transfer.
8.03	1. In the event of layoff and/or force reduction, seniority shall be the determining factor in job classes I to IX inclusive. In job classes IX-A to XVI the senior employee with the ability to perform the job will be given the job. Effective the date of ratification of this Agreement, in the event of layoff and/or force reduction, seniority shall be the determining factor in the 200T truck driver classification.
2. The procedure shall be as follows:
If there is a layoff or force reduction in one (1) or more areas the employee(s) with the least seniority in the classification(s) affected will be
18
removed out of the affected classification(s) in the affected area(s) and shall be given the following opportunities.
(a)	to move in any permanent vacancy available in their classification(s) in other areas of the Employer; or
the affected employee may bump any employee with less seniority in his classification, in his or other areas; or
(b)	If there are no permanent vacancies or no employee(s) with less seniority in the affected employee(s)' classification in any other area(s), then the employee may bump any employee with less seniority in any other classification in any area as per 8.03 (1) above
3. Also, all employees bumped under the provisions shall have all the rights described in 8.03 (1) and (2) above.	/	/
8.04	Employees having permanent or temporary partial disability shall be given preference over other workmen in the class of work they can reasonably perform. To exercise rights under this paragraph a vacancy must exist on a job prior to the disabled workmen having preference of assignment.
8.05	If the Employer introduces any change in equipment or material or any change in its work, undertaking of business, which directly results in the layoff or termination of employees as a direct result of the introduction of such equipment or material, those employees subject to layoff or termination as a result of such introduction of equipment or material, may exercise the seniority rights available to them under this Article.
19
8.06	In the event that after the application of the seniority provision, employees who choose termination as a direct result of the introduction of such equipment or material, or any change in its work, those employees will receive severance pay equivalent to
. one hundred (100) hours at the rate of the last *‘t classification which each employee could have held after the application of seniority rights by employees £[ affected.
8.07	It is understood and agreed that the terms of Article
8.05	and following this Article 8 relate to changes under the sole and exclusive control of the Employer and are not related to market conditions.
8.08	The following is the method of application of the provisions outlined in 8.05 and 8.06:
1.	Severance Pay: Those employees directly displaced as a result of technological change as defined in 8.05 will have the option of:
(a)	taking a layoff without severance pay,
OR
(b)	terminating their employment with the Company and taking the severance pay,
OR
(c)	exercising seniority rights by bumping less senior employees providing such employee has the ability to perform the job he is bumping into.
2.	The employees referred to above will have their
rates red circled until:	, /1
la) the Collective Agreement rates for the new job performed are equal to or greater than the employee's red circled rates,
20
OR
(b) such employee posts into another job, in which case the employee will receive the standard rate for the new job.
3.	Employees indirectly affected as a result of those employees in (a) above bumping will not be eligible for severance pay or have their rates red circled, except that those employees who after the application of all the seniority provisions of this Agreement would otherwise be lard off (i.e., no alternate job in the Company which they can perform or have seniority to bump into or otherwise is available to the employee) then such employees will have the option of:
(a)	electing severance pay
(b)	electing layoff without severance.
ARTICLE 9
CESSATION OF WORK
.01 There shall be no strikes or lockouts by either party, either collectively or individually during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 10
REPORTING PAY AND MINIMUM DAILY PAY
1.01 An employee who reports to work as scheduled without having been notified not to report and for
21
I '	'
l..-.	:
whom no work is available, or who works less than four (4) hours, will be allowed four (4) hours pay at the rate of the job for which he was scheduled to report.
10.02	An employee who reports for work on his scheduled shift and who works in excess of four (4) hours shall be provided work to complete his eight (8) hour shift or be paid the full eight (8) hours in lieu thereof.
10.03	The provisions of this Article will not apply in the event of strikes or work stoppages in connection with labour disputes, or other causes beyond the control of the Employer which prevent the Employer from continuing its operations in whole or in part) ,
Li'/,
10.04	(a) Where an employee is called out to work outside his regular work schedule, he will receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay at overtime rates,
EXCEPT THAT
(b)Where an employee is called out and reports for work prior to regular starting time and continues to work through his regular shift, he shall receive at appropriate overtime rates;
(i)	Pay for hours actually worked in advance of his regular starting time when twenty-four (24) hours notice has been given,
OR
(ii)	Four (4) hours pay or pay for actual hours worked in advance of his regular shift -whichever is greater when twenty-four (24) hours notice has not been given.
22
ARTICLE 11
HOLIDAYS
1.01
The following days will be New Year's Day Good Friday May 1 st Victoria Day Dominion Day B.C. Day
observed:
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day *Employee's Birthday
(a)	In the event that the Provincial or Federal Government proclaims an additional paid holiday to be added to the Annual and General Holidays Act, such holidays will be added to this Article, provided such holiday is not listed in 11 .01 and further provided that such proclaimed paid holiday is not a substitute or a replacement for any present legislated holiday.
(b)	It is agreed that there shall be not more than a total of thirteen (13) statutory holidays observed in a calendar year.
‘Employee’s Birthday - An employee may elect to take the birthday holiday on the actual day of the birth date or during the five (5) day period before or after the actual birth date.
1.02 Holidays shall be effective on the day of the week on which they fall however, should the Provincial or Federal Government proclaim a day in lieu of any of the holidays listed in 11.01 the day proclaimed shall become the holiday for the purpose of interpreting this Article unless otherwise mutually agreed.
23
11.03	An employee will receive holiday pay for any holiday not worked in 11.01 provided he meets the following qualifications:
He shall have worked all of his last scheduled shift prior to and all of his next scheduled shift following such holiday, unless an absence from one or both of such shifts is because of sickness of the employee (proof required) or because of death in the immediate family (spouse, mother, father, mother-inlaw, father-in-law, son, daughter, brother or sister, grandfather or grandmother, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law) or because of similar good cause.
11.04	All employees shall be paid their regular daily pay plus overtime, where applicable as per Article 14 for holidays not worked. Regular daily pay shall include:
(a)	eight (8) hours at classified rate of pay
(b)	underground premium where applicable
(c)	hot change where applicable
(d)	shift differential where applicable
11.05	Where a Statutory Holiday falls within an employee's scheduled vacation, the employee may
pre-arrange:
EITHER
(a) An additional day off with pay to be taken immediately prior to or immediately following the employee's scheduled vacation,
(b) elect to receive eight (8) hours pay in lieu thereof in addition to his regular vacation pay.
24
In electing either option (a) or (b) above, the employee must meet all the provisions of Article 11.
11.06	The Employer may request employees to work on statutory or paid holidays, however, such work shall be on a voluntary basis.
11.07	Any employee may be required to work holidays in the event of emergencies.
11 .08 An employee will not be penalized, with respect to holiday pay for absences incurred on afternoon shift Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve.
11.09 An employee who works on a holiday shall be paid at appropriate overtime rates for such work in addition to the holiday pay described in Section 11.04, above.
11 .10 Article 11.04 and 11.09 shall be interpreted and applied in accordance with the following chart.
CALCULATION OF PAYMENT FOR STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Not Worked Worked 8 Hours
Monday-Saturday
SDW	8x1	- 8 Mrs.	0x1,	8x 1.5	= 20 Hrs
SDW Sat 6th sell- 8 x 1.5 = 12 Hrs.	8 x 1 5,	8 X 1 5	= 24 Hrs
eduled shift
SDO	8x1.5= 12 Hrs. 0 x 1.5, 0 x 1.5 = 24 Hrs
Sunday Stat
SDW	Ox 1.5 = 12 Hrs.	0x1 5,	0x1 5	-- 24 IIrs
SDO	0x2 = 16 Hrs.	0x 2,	0 x 2	32	Hrs.
NOTE SDW -Scheduled Day Worked SDO Scheduled Day Off
25
ARTICLE 12
VACATIONS
12.01 Eligibility
(a)	An employee with one (1) or more years of service is eligible for a vacation in any calendar year during the term of this Agreement if he has worked at least one thousand (1,000) hours in the preceding calendar year, and has worked in the calendar year for which the vacation is sought except that;
(i)	If an employee has worked more than five hundred (500) hours but less than one thousand (1000) hours in the preceding calendar year as a direct result of being on Workers' Compensation and has worked in the calendar year for which the vacation is sought then such employee will receive full vacation entitlement for that year.
(ii)	If an employee has worked less that five hundred (500) hours in the preceding calendar year as a direct result of being on Workers’ Compensation and has worked in the calendar year for which the vacation is sought then such employee will have his vacation eligibility calculated as follows:
No. of hours worked x Full vacation entitlement 1,000	or two (2) weeks vacation
whichever is greater.
26
Such vacation time off and pay must be scheduled and taken prior to December 31st. of that year subject only to 12.01 (c).
Vacation paid to an employee will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of calculating the one thousand (1000) hours in the preceding year.
(b)	An employee completing his first twelve (12) months of continuous service on or after December 15th of any calendar year shall be allowed to take his vacation up to fifteen (15) days prior to his anniversary date if he has received earnings in at least one thousand (1,000) hours worked during the twelve (12) months following the date of his original employment.
(c)	An employee who has been unable to take his vacation due to a work incurred injury or sickness, prior to the end of the calendar year will receive his earned vacation pay entitlement on December 15th of that year.
(d)	Elk River Colliery service is applicable for vacation purposes providing there was no break in continuous service. The Company will continue to recognize the Vacation Pay year for such employees as April 1 to March 31.
12.02 Vacation Entitlement (effective Jan, 1, 1982)
(a)	Years of Service
I
2-3
27
Entitlement
2	wks, 12 days pay, or 4% of gross earnings whichever is greater
3	wks, 18 days pay, or 6% of gross earnings whichever is greater
4-9	4 wks, 24 days pay or 8% of gross
earnings whichever is greater 10-20	5 wks, 30 days pay, or 10% of gross
earnings whichever is greater 21 -29	6 wks, 36 days pay, or 12% of gross
earnings whichever is greater 30 +	7 wks, 42 days pay, or 14% of gross
earnings whichever is greater
(b)	The employees are entitled to receive benefits in the calendar year in which their anniversaries fall.
12.03	A vacation week shall consist of seven (7) consecutive days.
12.04	Employees are entitled to receive the benefits in the calendar year in which their anniversaries fall. Each employee, upon completion of his first year of continuous service shall take his vacation in the calendar year of his first anniversary. Thereafter subject to the provisions of this Article 12 each employee shall have his vacation scheduled at any time during the calendar year regardless of his anniversary date.
12.05	Scheduling of Vacations 1
1 The Employer shall have the right to close down the mine for up to a four (4) week period for the purpose of giving the employees vacation, but the period at which time this would be done is subject to mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union.
2.	Vacations for eligible employees shall be scheduled throughout the calendar year, but so far as possible will be granted at times most
28
desired by employees; provided however, that the Employer has the final right to allotment of vacation periods in order to ensure orderly operations ot the mine.
3.	The employee may elect to take vacations in any number of periods of one (1) week or longer.
4.	Seven (7) day operation employees because of their work schedule may have complete shift rotations or weeks as time off, but their vacation pay shall be governed by Article 12.02.
5.	Vacations may not be accumulated from one (1) calendar year to another.
6.	The minimum vacation to be scheduled and taken at one time is one (1) week.
7.	Employees willsubmit vacation requests to their respective foremen by no later than April 1 in each year and the Company will post the approved vacation schedules no later than April 30th of that year.
8.	Employees submitting late vacation requests (after April 1) will be placed on a second vacation schedule and will be granted vacation on a first come first serve basis within that schedule.
9.	This Article 12.05 (7 & 8) is not intended to prevent an employee from scheduling his vacation anytime during the calendar year ineluding the period January 1 to April 30th.
10.	Once an employee’s vacation has been approved It will not be changed unless by
29
mutual agreement between the Company and the employee.
11.	An employee may elect to take vacations for two (2) successive years at the end of one (1) calendar year and at the beginning of the next calendar year, in one (1) continuous period.
12.06	Vacation Pay
1.	A day of vacation pay will be an employee's regular daily pay, at the commencement date of his vacation defined as:
(a)	eight (8) hours at classified rate of pay
(b)	underground premium where applicable
(c)	hot change where applicable
(d)	shift differential where applicable
Vacation pay will be available to him prior to commencing the scheduled vacation.
2.	When the Employer elects to close down the mine for the purpose of giving most employees a vacation, each employee with less than one (1) year of service will receive one (1) day’s pay for each month worked at the time of closure and will receive the remaining vacation pay to which he is entitled upon reaching his first anniversary date.
12.0V Termination
Vacation pay for employees who leave the employment of the Employer for whatever reason shall be computed as follows:
(a)	Terminated employees who have not completed their first year of continuous service shall receive the appropriate percentage of earnings as defined in 12.02
30
(b)	Employees who have not taken their vacations and who have passed their anniversary date in the calendar year of their termination will receive their vacation entitlement as per Article 12.02 for the completed year plus the appropriate percentages of earnings for months worked after his last anniversary.
(c)	Employees who have taken vacations and have terminated before reaching the anniversary date at which full vacation credits would have been earned will have deducted from their final pay the differences between vacation monies actually received and allowed.
(d)	Employees who have taken all eligible vacations in accordance with 12.02 and who terminate after their anniversary date, will receive the appropriate percentages of earnings for months worked after their last anniversary to the date of termination, except as otherwise provided in 12.08.
12.08	Any employee sixty (60) years of age and over who terminates or retires and who has been continuously employed by Westar Mining Ltd. for ten (10) years or more immediately prior to his termination or retirement shall be paid a pro-rata portion of his vacation entitlement or a percentage of his earnings for that vacation year, whichever is greater.
ARTICLE 13 RATES OF PAY
13.01	Wage Scales
The Employer agrees to pay its employees covered 31
hereby, and the Union agrees that its members will accept wages for work performed in the various classifications contained in the Schedule of Wages as set forth in Appendix “A” attached hereto.
13.02	New Classifications	/,)	-
1.	When the Employer establishes a new job classification for which no wage rate is now established, the rate for such new classification shall be established by agreement between the Employer and the Union. The final adjustment agreed to will be retroactive for the hours worked on the job.
2.	In the event the Union and the Employer cannot agree on a wage rate for a new classification, the Employer will assign an interim rate and the parties will proceed to arbitration.
3.	The Employer will notify the Union in writing thirty (30) days before a new job classification becomes operational.
4.	During the term of this Agreement the Company and the Union agree to discuss the implementation of a progression system for warehouse employees.
13.03	Dual Classification
In the case of an employee working in a dual capacity the employee shall be paid the rate that is highest for the class of worked performed in any one (1) shift.
32
3.04	Rotation of Shifts
When any type of work is performed on a multiple shift basis, the general principle of shift rotation will be adhered to as far as is practicable.
3.05	Overrates
On application of the “red-circle” rates it is understood that the employee will not have his overrate reduced so long as he remains in the classification in which ho holds the overrate. When he moves to another classification he will be paid the contract rate for the classification.
3.06	Shift Differential Shift differentials will be paid for all hours afternoon shift and night shift as follows:
Jan. 1/84
Afternoon Shift	$0.60
Night Shift	$0.80
i j
'3.07 Pay day shall be every second Friday; no change to be made in the present method of issuing employees' pay statements. Any employee desiring to leave the service of the Employer shall, on his request, be paid all monies due him within two (2) working days after his stoppage of work.
13.08	(a) When an employee is properly designated by the Employer as a leadman, he shall receive twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour more than his basic rate.
(b)	A leadman shall not have the authority to hire, discharge, promote, discipline or otherwise
33
worked on
Jan. 1/85 $0.70 $0.90
make effective changes in the status of employees or effectively recommend a change in status or disciplinary action.
(c)	It is understood that employees who are properly designated as leadman and who are receiving the appropriate premium for leadman will not receive an additional premium for orienting and training a new employee.
(d)	Effective January 3, 1980 the Company will appoint no further leadmen.
13.09	Employees personally selected to train or orient other employees who are designated as an employee-in-training, excluding apprentices, will receive a premium of thrity-five cents ($0.35) per hour while performing such work with employees so designated.
13.10	There shall be two (2) crew member on each Continuous Miner and Hydraulic Monitor that receive the operator's rate of pay at all times,
13.11	Bus System
Effective the date of ratification of this Agreement the Company agrees to provide free bussing to and from the work site for the employees. Further, within sixty (60) days of ratification of this Agreement the Company and the Union shall meet to mutually agree on bus schedules and routes to include the Elkview Plant employees,
ARTICLE 14
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
14.01	The work week shall be five (5) days work a week
34
eight (8) hours a day from Monday through Friday inclusive commencing at 12:01 a.m. Monday except that:
(a)	The Surface Mining Division defined as the open pit operation at Harmer, the Elkview Preparation Plant and loading facilities shall work a seven (7) day work week. A normal work schedule for the employee will be arranged so that his normal work week will be five (5) consecutive days work and two (2) days of rest. It is around the clock basis, with a five (5) on two (2) off recognized, however, that a twenty-one (21) turn work schedule may result in occasional split days off. The Employer will make every effort to keep split day schedules to a minimum. The right to arrange the work schedule is vested exclusively with the Employer.
(b)	The By-Product productron personnel shall work six (6) consecutive days with two (2) days rest.
(c)	The Power House Stationary Engineers at Michel shall work a 7-2, 7-1,7-4 work schedule.
4.02 (a) Overtime at the rate of time and one-half shall be paid for:
1.	Any hours worked, in any one (1) calendar day, Monday through Friday, that are not part of the regular eight (8) hour shift schedule for that week and are not in excess of eleven (11) hours worked per calendar day.
2.	The first eleven (11) hours worked on Sunday except that if Sunday is a scheduled day of rest and an employee works he shall receive double time for all hours worked.
3.	A maximum of eleven (11) hours worked on a Saturday if the work occurs on a Saturday
35
which is the sixth scheduled work day of that calendar week or the Saturday is a day of rest.
4.	The first eleven (11) hours worked on scheduled days off except for Sunday. ‘
(b)	Overtime at the rate of double time shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of eleven (1 I) hours per calendar day, Monday through Saturday and on Sunday, when Sunday is a regular scheduled day of work.
(c)	Payment of overtime rates shall not be duplicated for the same hours worked to the extent that hours are compensated for at overtime rates under one (1) provision, they shall not be counted as hours worked in determining overtime under the same or any other provision; except that regular scheduled hours worked on Sunday (ie. straight time hours) shall be counted in determining the forty (40) hours per week and that hours paid on a holiday (as established in Article 11, Holidays), whether worked or not, shall be counted as hours worked in determining overtime under the provision of this Article.
14,03	(a) Eight (8) hours work commencing at his designated marshalling point will constitute a work day for all employees.
(b)	Employees will have a lunch period of twenty (20) minutes to be taken during the 4th or 5th hours of any shift worked with the Employer retaining the right to schedule the lunch period.
(c)	Every employee shall receive two (2) ten (10) minute rest breaks per eight (8) hour shift; one (1) in the first half and one (1) in the second half of the shift except that Underground employees
36
shall continue their past practice of taking one longer rest break near the beginning of the shift. In all areas other than the underground the Employer has the right to schedule the rest breaks for each employee.
4.04 Overtime shall be shared equitably amongst employees within the classification and work area in which the overtime is required.	... ’
•fU / /
14.05	Employees required to work overtime Will do so on a voluntary basis.
I 4.06 In the event an employee is specifically requested to change shifts during his regular scheduled work week, such employee will be paid overtime for hours worked only on the first shift of the changed schedule.
ARTICLE 15 SAFETY
15.01	The Employer shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee comprised of representatives of the Employer and the Union to be known as the “Safety Committee.” The Committee will explore and attempt to agree upon a Safety program for each of the operations of the Employer by establishing subcommittees for each operation. It is hoped to arrive at a system which will provide for a Union Safety Committeeman to be designated for each shift with the intent that employees will be represented in safety matters at all times. It is the further intent of this Article that safety representatives should be
37
knowledgeable of the equipment and working conditions in each operation so that they will be alert to any hazard, and responsible in attitude and representation.
15.02	The Employer shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee in each operation. Elkview - Harmer Ridge - Balmer - Hydraulic - Michel Surface. The employees shall choose two (2) fellow employees to act on the committee in each operation. (Except that Harmer Ridge will be allowed four (4) employees), The Union will notify the Employer in writing as to who was chosen. The Union President or Secretary shall be a member of any of these committees.
15.03	The Safety Committee shall meet once each month. There will be an inspection tour of each operation and a meeting each month.
15.04	Safety Committeemen shall be notified of and shall have the right to investigate all major accidents or serious happenings in the operation. Safety Committeemen will be paid at their regular classification for investigating major accidents or serious happenings occurring while he is on shift and for the inspection tours and meetings. If there is no Safety Committee on shift when an accident occurs, the Employer shall request two (2) Safety Committeemen that are off shift to investigate the accident. If only one (1) Safety Committeeman is on shift or if only one (1) shows up on request, then such Safety Committeeman shall appoint a fellow employee on shift to accompany him in his duties.
15.05	(a) Copies of minutes of monthly meetings will be
38
forwarded to the Union office, Employer's office and the appropriate government agencies. Chairman of the Safety Committee will alternate between the Union and the Employer's representatives every six (6) months.
(b) Each and every crew shall hold safety discussions at least once each month.
15.06	When an employee is ordered by the management to accompany an injured workman, he shall be compensated at the employees' classified rate for time necessarily lost. However, in the event that an underground workman is so ordered during the last half of his shift, he shall not be required to return to the mine for the balance of the shift and shall receive payment at the employees' classified rate for the full shift.
i 5.07 Physical Examinations
The Employer shall have the right to require that any applicant for employment shall pass a physical examination by a physician selected by the Employer. The Employer shall also have the right to require periodic physical examinations for any employee whose activities affect the safety of other persons or of the property of the Employer.
The Employer shall bear the costs of all physical examinations required by it. The Employer shalt pay four (4) hours (not to be considered as time worked) at the employee's regular wage rate, in obtaining periodic physical examinations (but not preemployment physical examinations) at the medical clinic. The employee may take the examination at the designated medical clinic most convenient to himself.
39
15.08 Protective Clothing
(a)	The proper apron and/or shirts and gloves will be available for welders to check out of the warehouse when such apparel is required to ensure their safety and well-being while performing their job. Replacement issues will be made upon return of the previous issue.
(b)	Safety belts where applicable, By-Products protective footwear and spats, wet suits and rubber gloves where required will be provided by the Company at no charge to the employees. Replacement issues will be made upon return of the previous issue.
(c)	Having completed one (1) year of continuous service with the Company an employee will be reimbursed for having purchased a pair of safety boots from Westar Mining Ltd. and will be issued a further pair of boots on each subsequent anniversary date. Boots will be obtained through the warehouse upon written application.
(d)	Each member of the U.M.W.A. who so requests, will be issued one (1) pair of coveralls, which will be exchanged weekly for a clean pair. Lost coveralls will be charged to employees at twenty dollars ($20.00) per pair. Coveralls will be returned to the company upon termination,
15.09 Accidental Fatality in the Mine
In the event of an instantaneous death by an accident in or outside the mine, all employees shall suspend work in the area where the accident occurred for the remainder of the day of the accident,
40
but shall resume work on the following day and shall continue to work until the day of the funeral al which time all areas shall be idle.
ARTICLE 16
EMPLOYEE CONDITIONS
l 6.01 Tools
All men working at the face or on other jobs which require the use of tools such as a pick, shovel, saw or axe, are required to obtain a set of tools from or through the Employer. The Employer will supply these tools free of charge.
16.02	All tradesmen (certified or uncertified) shall be required to have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired before they can qualify for their appropriate tradesman's rate, with the exception of machinery or tools which do not fall within the responsibility of the journeyman.
16.03	A tool allowance equivalent to two and one-half (2'A) hours pay per month at the employee’s applicable classified trades rale shall be paid to all tradesmen (certified, uncertified and apprentices in their second year and above) to purchase their own tools and to convert to metric tools provided such tradesmen have tools in excess of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00).
16.04	House Coal
1.	Coal will be made available for the private and individual use of employees, retired employees,
41
and for the widows providing their residence is in the immediate area.
2.	Coal prices for screened and dustless treated coal will be as set out below:
Michel	Fernie
Stoker 9.11	11.06
An additional twenty-five cents ($0.25) per ton on three (3) ton order delivered to Fernie. The rate mentioned above will be two dollars ($2.00) per ton less for retired employees.
16.05	Coke and By-Products 1
1.	The necessity for continuous and scheduled operation of the By-Products ovens of the Employer is recognized and admitted by the Union.
2.	The Employer will at least once each month post a work schedule at a convenient place in the plant showing each man the shifts he is scheduled to work, and failure to report for duty at the proper time by any man without having given the Employer’s superintendent two (2) hours notice before starting time, unless prohibited from giving notice by sickness or unavoidable circumstances over which the employee has no control shall be dealt with according to the absenteeism clause.
3.	It is agreed that no coke produced during a legal suspension of operations shall be sold on the market during such period. The ovens would be operated at a reduced capacity, approximately fifty percent (50%) of normal, subject to weather conditions during any such legal suspension affecting the mines.
42
4.	The Employer will post a “Pushing Schedule” giving the time intervals at which ovens should be discharged which shall be at intervals of not less than thirty (30) minutes but may be at longer intervals. The Employer will decide as to the number of men required to operate the schedule as posted.
16.06	The Employer shall not introduce or institute any type or kind of wage incentive or bonus other than one to which the Union has signified its approval in writing
16.07	Proper washhouse facilities with hot and cold water (running) and free bath soap shall be provided by Employer as in the past.
16.08	The Company shall give preference of employment to members of employee’s immediate family.
16.09	Wet Pay_
A working place in the mine which produces water from the roof equal to the amount experienced while stoping will be considered a “wet place” for which one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per day extra will be paid to those affected inside employees. Water conditions in excess of those described above will be considered “abnormal wet” for which one (1) extra hour at stratight time will be paid above the eight (8) hour shift for those affected inside employees.
16.10	Abnormal Weather Conditions
1. In the case where an underground employee is required by the Employer to perform duties outside of the mine under abnormal weather conditions, the Employer agrees to provide suitable
43
extra clothing to keep him warm and dry during the performance of such work. The foregoing shall not apply to any employee engaged in his usual occupation in/or about the mine.
16.11	1. Marshalling Points
The Company will maintain marshalling points at Michel, Harmer, Central Component Rebuild, Central Warehouse, Panel 6, Elkview, and Reclamation washhouses. It is understood and agreed that in the event that future development requires new marshalling points then the Company and the Union will discuss the matter prior to any introduction of any changes from the current system.
2. Exploration Personnel
Because exploration personnel can only work about five (5) months per year, the remaining time they will continue to be classed as exploration but can be employed in any part of the Employer's operations. At all times the exploration crew's marshalling point will be the Michel Washhouse.
16.12	Seniority List
The Company agrees to provide and post behind glass a seniority list of the employees covered by this Agreement in May and September of each calendar year.
16.13	Underground Premium	* 1
1. All underground employees shall receive two dollars ($2.00) per hour effective January 1, 1984 in addition to their classified rate for all hours worked underground. There will be no pyramiding
44
of the underground premium in the calculation of
ovorlirne.
2.	Employees whose regular job is not underground shall receive the underground premium for actual time spent underground.
3.	No premium shall be paid for hours worked where regular underground employees are assigned to work which does not require them to go underground anytime during that shift. The Company will continue its past practice in the application of this section.
4.	No premium shall be paid for hours worked where regular underground employees are asked to work overtime on another shift which work does not require them to go underground.
6.14	Security Checks
It is agreed that all employees will observe and submit to regular Security checks.
6.15	Tuition Reimbursement
The Company agrees to reimburse the full cost of books and tuition fees of any course where such course is directly related to work within Westar Mining Ltd. upon such employee successfully completing the course It is understood that this benefit does not appiy to designated apprentices. Employees wishing to take the advantages of this benefit must have the course approved by the training committee prior to enrollment.
6.16	The current suggestion plan providing incentives to employees who submit ideas which, upon im-
45
plementation increase the efficiency and productivity of the Company shall continue.
16.17	Access to the Company washhouses will be made available to Union officials designated as:
District President District Secretary/Treasurer Local President Local Vice-President Local Secretary/Treasurer Local Recording Secretary International Board Member District 18 Board Member
To gain access these designated officials sign in and out at either of the gate houses.
Should any of the above designated officials wish to enter the production and maintenance areas they will after signing in at the gate house be required to check in with the senior supervisor on shift in the area they wish to visit. That supervisor will provide an escort to the area requested. No Union official will disrupt work in progress in any area visited. On prearranged meetings between Union and Company officials the Union officials will sign in at the gate house closest to the meeting except when the meeting is held in an area that does not require the Union official to pass by a gate house.
Prior to access being allowed any official, the Union will advise the Company in writing of the names of the current officials as defined above.
16.18	Employees required to work two (2) hours or more of unscheduled overtime in excess of their regular shift
46
shall be provided a meat in accordance with present practice or at the employee’s option be given a meal allowance in the amount of six dollars ($6.00). The allowance shall be paid with the employee’s regular
pay.
ARTICLE 17
INSURANCE BENEFITS
17.01	(a) The Employer agrees to pay the total cost of a Group Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for all employees which will provide the following:	i
Effective Dale Life Insurance AD&D
January 1,1985	$35,000	$35,000
January 1, 1987	$40,000	$40,000
(b)	Non-occupational Sickness and Accident Insurance will be provided for each employee who is a member of the Union, with the total cost paid by the Employer. Sickness and Accident Benefits shall be for a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks payable from the first day of accident, first day of hospitalization and from the fourth day of absence due to sickness in accordance with the following schedule:
Effective Date	Weekly	Indemnity
January 1, 1985	$325.00/week
January 1,1987	$350.00/week
(c)	A disability resulting from the same cause as a previous disability will be treated as a continu-
47
ation of that disability unless an employee has returned to work for a period of fourteen (14) calendar days.
(d)	It is a condition of employment that employees maintain enrollment in the above Insurance Plan.
17.02	The Employer agrees to continue to provide each
employee with the medical, surgical and extended health benefit coverages equivalent to M.S.A. in British Columbia which were in force at the date of signing the Agreement at no cost to the employees. Such coverage to be effective the first day of employment with the Employer. The Extended Health Care Benefit Plan shall Include as eligible for reimbursement, co-insurance fees and , outpatient fees paid by employees.	'	,
17.03	It is a condition of employment that employees maintain enrollment in the above Medical Plan.
17.04	Insurance on Employee’s Clothing
The Employer will ensure employees’ clothing in the washhouse against loss by fire only to a maximum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) in each individual case.
17.05	(a) Employees on leave of absence in excess of sixty
(60) calendar days are required to make their own personal arrangements for continuation of Group insurance and Medical coverages referred to in this Article.
17.06	Dental Care Plan
Including orthodontia covering the employee, his spouse and their dependent children under the age
48
of nineteen (19) years of age. Benefits shall be equal to those provided under Medical Services Association.
Plan A	100% Coverage
Plan B	50% Coverage
Plan C	50% of approved	schedule of fees
Orthodontia Lifetime maximum:
Effective January 1,1984 - $1,500.00 Effective January 1, 1985 $1,750.00
Cost to be paid by the Employer '/Q-
7.07	(a) It is a condition of employment that all employees
will join and remain in the dental care program except those excluded by the past Agreement of 01/01/76-12/31/76.
(b) All employees will be required to enroll in the dental care plan commencing thrity (30) calendar days after the date of hire.
7.08	The Company will institute an Optical Program which will provide a maximum one hundred dollars ($100.00) in any two (2) year period for the purchase of prescription glasses or corrective lenses, for the employee and the employee's spouse or any dependent children.
ARTICLE 18 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
18.01	Leave of absence on compassionate grounds or for long journeys will not be unreasonably withheld by the Employer.
49
18.02	(a) When death occurs in an employee's immediate
family (spouse, mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son, daughter, brother or sister, grandmother, grandfather, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law) an employee upon request will be excused for up to three (3) days provided the days are taken within seven (7) days of the funeral.
(b)	The employee shall receive pay at his regular pay defined as, eight (8) hours at classified rate of pay, underground premium where applicable, hot change where applicable, shift differential where applicable for any such excused shifts he would have worked provided it is established that there was a death in the immediate family.
18.03	Jury Duty
When a regular employee is called for jury service, he shall be excused from work on the days he is required to appear in court. Employees called for jury duty, upon proof of such service and the amount of pay received thereof, will be paid whatever sum, if any is necessary in addition to the fees received for jury duty service to reimburse him for earnings lost because of such jury duty.
This section shall apply to a subpoenaed witness, except when an employee is appearing as a witness in his own defense.
ARTICLE 19 JOB POSTINGS
19.01 All permanent job vacancies shall be posted on the Notice Boards in the washhouses with a copy sent
50
to the Secretary of the Local Union. The job vacancy posting form, Appendix ''C” must be fully completed by the Employer. The employee shall be provided job posting application forms, as per Appendix “C", by the Employer.
19.02	All permanent vacancies will be posted within four (4) working days of the vacancy occurring and will be posted for a period of four (4) working days. The successful applicant shall be awarded the posting within tour (4) working days from the closing of the bid. The Employer shall post the name of the successful applicant in all areas.
19.03	Within ten (10) working days the successful applicant will be reclassified into his new job, and the Company will place the employee in the new job within twenty (20) working days.
19.04	Jobs will be assigned as follows:
Job Classes I - IX on the basis of the employee’s Company seniority. Except that the employees posting on the positions of grader operator, must have the ability to perform the job.
Job Classes IX-A . XVI on the basis of seniority providing they have the ability and,physical fitness to perform the job. Except that effective the date of ratification of this agreement 200T truck driver postings shall be awarded on the basis of seniority.
19.05	There will be a ten (10) working day training and orientation period for new applicants in job classes I - IX inclusive and the 200T truck driver job. All applicants who bid on job classes I IX inclusive and 200T truck driver job and are chosen according to the terms of the job posting procedure, shall be
51
given proper instruction by the supervisor or fellow employee designated by the Employer.
19.06	Employees who do not successfully complete their training and orientation period will revert to their former position. Such employee(s) will not be eligible to re-bid on that job for a period of six (6) months.
19.07	New employees hired in either one of the four (4) sections, Michel, Elkview, Harrner or Reclamation, will not be able to bid into another section for six (6) months after the date of hire.
19.08	Any employee may bid from one section to another one (1) time in any twelve (12) month period except that apprentices will be required to stay in their designated sections.
19.09	Having successfully bid on a specific job within a classification the employee will be eligible to bid laterally only once within that same classification in any twelve (12) month period.
19.10	Employees bidding into the Preparation Plant will be required to spend qualifying periods in each plant operator level before bidding into the next higher plant operator or control room level.
The periods of qualification shall be as follows: three (3) months as a plant operator III before being qualified as plant operator II.
-three (3) months as a plant operator II before being qualified as plant operator I.
- three (3) months as a plant operator I before being qualified as a control room operator.
19.11	Employees bidding into the following classifications will be required to spend:
52
(a)	Six (6) months as a drill oiler prior to being able to bid on a drill operator’s job.
(b)	Six (6) months as a shovel oiler prior to being able to bid on a shovel operator's job.
19.12	Employees bidding into the following classification will be required to spend:
Six (6) months as a continuous miner faceman prior to being able to bid as a continuous miner operator or hydraulic monitor operator.
19.13	Credit will be allowed, for relief operating, toward a job post in Job Classes IX-A-XVI.
19.14	Labourer positions are entry level jobs and will be posted as follows:
Where a labourer vacancy is awarded to another labourer then the vacancy created as a result of this move will not be posted and the Company will fill the position by other means.
19.15	Should there be no successful applicants to any job posted in compliance with Article 19 of the current Collective Agreement and the Company is unable to fill the position through other means, the job will be re-posted after a period of forty-five (45) calendar days.
19.16	When an employee has entered into an apprenticeship contract, he may not bid on another apprenticeship while under contract with the Department of Labour.
ARTICLE 20 TRAINING
In co-operation with the Director of Apprenticeship
53
and Industrial Training, Department of Labour, Province of British Columbia, the following program shall apply:
20.01	1. Purpose
The purpose of this program is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed as journeyman and apprentices in respect of the trades named in Point No. 2 herein.
2.	Trades
(a)	automotive - 4 years
(b)	electrical - 4 years
(c)	heavy duty mechanics - 4 years
(d)	instrumentation - 5 years
(e)	machinist - 5 years
(f)	millwright - 4 years
(g)	steamfitter-pipefitter - 5 years
(h)	welder - 3 years
(i)	linemen - 3 years
(j)	carpenter - 4 years
All employees in the above noted trades shall be employed in compliance with the Apprenticeship and Tradesman Qualifications Act.
3.	General Principles
(a)	All applicants must be chosen according to the job posting provision.
(b)	Once started in this program subject however to the provisions of this Agreement, the apprentice shall have the right to continue provided he passes all the tests and work is available for him.
(c)	In the event that an apprentice fails the tests at the end of his period of training in the vocational school, the apprentice will be given
54
an opportunity to re-attend that period of training, however, should the apprentice fail the repeated period of training, he shall bo required to withdraw from the program
(d)	Depending upon the availability of space in the vocational school and with the approval of the Apprenticeship Branch the apprentice will be reassigned to the course which he has failed preferably within a period of one hundred and twenty (120) clays.
(e)	Should an apprentice fail to qualify at the con-elusion of any training period as listed in (c) above, he will be required to repeat said period and will not receive the appropriate wage increase as set forth in Appendix ‘A' attached hereto.
(t) Wherever reference is made to a year as an apprentice if shall mean a period of not less than one thousand and six hundred (1,600) hours or two hundred (ZOO) working days. Said period to include time spent at the vocational school In the event a participant works less than two hundred (ZOO) days and has attended vocational school within the year, he will, subject to the approval of Apprenticeship Industrial Training Branch, be given an opportunity to take the required test.
(g)	The Employer will ensure that the apprentice will be given the necessary on-job practical training
(h)	Certification of those employees presently recognized and being paid as journeymen in the above-noted trades will be strictly on a
55
voluntary basis. Any employee affected by this clause of the Agreement who elects to remain in his present category or, who writes a Trades Qualification test and fails shall suffer no change in status or loss of pay.
(i)	Entrance to the program will in all cases be subject to the applicant meeting the standards required by the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
(j)	There will be no age limit for applicants into the program.
20.02	Training Schedules
All successful applicants will be registered as apprentices and will attend technical training within twelve (12) months of registration and each succeeding year thereafter. Apprentices shall attend technical training as prescribed by the Director of Apprenticeship and Industrial Training. If by any reason the vocational school facilities are unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the apprentice in the succeeding training requirements if successfully completed.
20.03	Journeyman Qualifications
(a)	Upon successful completion of his apprenticeship, the apprentice shall receive the established certified journeyman rate of pay.
(b)	Where an apprentice successfully graduates to a journeyman within his trade, and if no posting vacancies exist at the time he graduates, a journeyman’s position will be posted within his trade either Harmer, Michel or Elkview. The graduate apprentice may bid on such job posting, however, should he elect not to do so and/or
56
another journeyman is successful in bidding into the position, then the graduating apprentice will be placed in the ultimate vacancy created. Subsequent to this move the graduating apprentice may bid into any other positions in keeping with the provisions of Article 19 of the Collective Agreement.
I0.04	Allowance While Attending School * 1
(a)	Upon successful completion of the school period, the Employer will supplement allowances paid to the apprentice by the appropriate Government Authorities (excluding the living-away-from-home allowance) to an amount equal to that which the apprentice would have received had he not attended school but not more than an amount equal to forty (40) hours at his basic rate of pay in each week of full school attendance.
(b)	Tradesmen who:
1.	Have three (3) or more years continuous service with the Company and,
2.	Have requested a leave of absence not less than thirty (30) days in advance to upgrade, within their trade, maintenance skills used on Company property, (this provision shall apply to not more than three (3) employees in any one (1) trade, certified and uncertified, at the same time and not more than one (1) from Michel and one (1) from Elkview and two (2) from Harmer at the same time), and,
3.	Are accepted by a recognized trade school for the purpose of upgrading or obtaining a Trade Certificate within his trade will, upon successful completion of the school period be paid by the Employer a supplement to
57
allowances paid to said employees by the appropriate Government authorities (excluding living-away-from-home allowances) an amount equal to that which the employee would have received had he not attended school, but not more than an amount equal to forty (40) hours at his basic rate of pay in each week of full school attendance to a maximum of four (4) consecutive weeks.
20.05	Tools
(a)	The first year apprentices generally shall not be required to own tools and shall use those designated to him. However, in his own interest he should commence the process of building up a tool kit.
(b)	The second, third, Fourth and fifth year apprentices shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and be in the general process of building up the necessary tools to equip himself for the job.
(c)	All journeymen tradesmen shall be required to have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job before they can qualify for the journeyman's rate, with the exception of machinery or tools which do not fall within the responsibility of the journeyman.
20.06	(a) The first or second year apprentice shall assist
the third, fourth, and fifth year apprentices and/or the journeymen and work under their direction.
(b) The third, fourth, or fifth year apprentices shall be qualified to assist the journeymen and work under his direct supervision and instruction.
58
(c)	The journeyman must be qualified to carry out the responsibilities of his trade as outlined by the Apprenticeship and Tradesman's Qualification Act and be able to direct assistants.
>0.07 Training General	f
The Employer shall train employee^ (except tradesmen, as they have their own programs) on an area and shift basis, by seniority, where such training is available, in order to develop those senior employees so that they may qualify for higher rated or different job classifications.
20.08 The Company will develop a training program in conjunction with East Kootenay Community College for chainmen who wish to qualify as surveyors.
This training will be available to a minimum of four (4) chainmen at any one time and will follow the sequence and qualifiers described below:
(a)	Only classified chainmen will be eligible for this training and those employees will remain as chainmen during the training program.
(b)	The chainmen must successfully complete Surveyors Mathematics prioi to acceptance on this training program.
(c)	The surveyor trainee will follow the course curriculum as offered by evening program, and also through formalized on the job training.
(d)	The Company will reimburse the trainee for successful completion of each section of study. A trainee who does not successfully complete any portion of the course of study (either evening program or field training) will not be allowed to continue on the surveyor training program.
59 .
ARTICLE 21
SAVINGS CLAUSE
21 .01 If any article, section, paragraph, clause or phrase of this Agreement shall, by any Provincial, Federal or other law, or by decision of any court be declared or held illegal, void or unenforceable, the remaining portions of this Agreement shall continue to be valid and in full force and effect; and the parties shall thereupon immediately start to renegotiate that part or parts declared or held invalid. If the parties do not agree upon a mutually satisfactory replacement within ninety (90) days after the date of the conclusive declaration, the parties shall resort to Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
21.02	The parties hereto mutually agree to exclude the operation of Section 66(2) of the Labour Code of British Columbia.
ARTICLE 22 ABSENTEEISM
22.01	When an employee absents himself from work for a period of more than:
(a)	seven (7) days in a calendar year
OR
(b)	three (3) consecutive days
OR
(c)	any combination thereof to make a total of seven (7) days in a calendar year, unless through sickness or by first having properly arranged with
60
his foreman and obtained his consent, he may be discharged.
An employee whose absence from work would cause any stoppage of work, must before absenting himself properly arrange with ot notify the foreman of his intended absence, otherwise he may be terminated.
ARTICLE 23 CHRISTMAS BONUS
23.01	A Christmas bonus will be paid each year during the term of this Collective Agreement to all eligible employees. Eligible employees must have one (1) year continuous service to December 1st of such year and shall receive the bonus one (1) pay day prior to Christmas in accordance with the following:
Effective January 1,1985 - $200.00
23.02	Pro rata payments for the months they are on the payroll shall be provided for those mine workers who are given employment or who are laid off during the December 1st to November 30th qualifying period.
ARTICLE 24 SEVERANCE PAY
34.01	Should the Company be forced to layoff any employees for an indefinite period due to a shortage of work, then those employees laid off will be eligible for a severance payment of four (4) hours pay per month of service at the employee's regular rate of
61
pay up to a maximum of two hundred and fifty (250) hours provided that:
(a) Employees accept the severance pay as final termination of employment with the Company and will no longer be eligible for any recall rights under the Collective Agreement. Effective January 1, 1985 the maximum severance pay shall be increased to three hundred (300) hours.
24.02	It is understood that the above provision will appfy to employees retiring at age sixty-two (62) or over and to employees going on long term disability benefits or dying. Termination of employment for reasons other than those stated above (ie. quits or discharge for cause), are not to be construed as a layoff.
24.03	It is further understood that the above benefits are
payable in addition to the technological change provisions in Article 8.	,
24.04	The administration of this Agreement will include the following provisions:
(a)	If at the time of layoff no return to work date is given, then the laid off employees are eligible for severance pay at the time of layoff notice.
(b)	If the return to work date is greater than thirty (30) days hence, then the laid off employees are eligible for severance pay at the time of layoff.
(c)	Where the total number of days laid off exceeds thirty (30) days in any twelve (12) month period the employees shall be entitled to severance pay.
62
ARTICLE 25
TERMINATION BENEFIT
25.01	A termination benefit shall be payable upon written application to the mine worker who:
(a)	has completed at least three (3) full years from date of hire, but less than ten (10) years, of continuous service with the Company, and
(b)	is not eligible for any other benefits payable under the Pension Plan.
25.02	The amount ot termination benefit shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each year of completed service to a maximum of one thousand and eight hundred dollars ($1,800.00). In determining the amount of such benefit, service in excess of six (6) months will count as one (1) full year of service.
25.03	District 18, United Mine Workers of America service prior to January 1, 1976 will be included in the determination of the amount of benefit to which a mine worker IS entitled provided such mine worker was in the employ of Westar Mining Ltd. on December 31,1975.
Termination benefits for employees hired subsequent to December 31,1975 will accrue solely as a result of the total length of service by the employees with Westar Mining Ltd.
25.04	Employees with ten (10) or more years of service as defined above will not be eligible for any termination benefit. The benefits referred to in this Article shall
63
however be paid to the widow or dependent(s) of any r employee that dies while in the service of the Company and where there are no benefits payable from the Pension Plan, Appendix “B” attached hereto.
25.05	An employee eligible to receive a termination benefit may elect ot leave his accumulated years of service in trust with the Company. Upon reemployment with the Company, such service will count as credited service for the purpose of determining pension benefits. Such person may elect to withdraw termination benefits any time after his termination of employment.
ARTICLE 26
26.01 This Agreement shall become effective on January 1. 1986, and shall remain in effect until midnight of December 31,1988 and thereafter from year to year urftITeIther]oarty shall give notice in writing to the other party of a desire to terminate the same at least ninety (90) day prior to its expiry date.
64
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their hands through their respective officers on the___th day of___________________________1986.
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 7292
E. DeAnna, President Local 7292
T. Hume Vice-President
J. Caldwell Secretary/Treasurer
F. Leskosek Recording Secretary
J. Mittlestead District Board Member
B. Swaney, Secretary/Treasurer District 10
H.Fahey Shop Steward
65
M. Gordon Shop Steward
F. Poch Shop Steward
WESTAR MINING LTD
J.E. Gravestock, Director -Corporate Labour Relations
R.E. Vankoughnett, Superintendent Employee Relations
T.K. Webster, Asst. Superintendent Employee Relations
I.M. Berzins
Employee Relations Advisor
C. Britch, General Superintendent Surface Mining
G. Brust, Superintendent Coal Processing
66
Date
APPENDIX “A!
U.M.W.A. RATES OF PAY($/HR)
JOB Jan. 1
15.90
Oct. 1 1986
15.94
July 1
1987
16.24
II
III	16.09
IV	16.28
v	16.45
VI	17,00
VII	17.08
16.10	16.40
16.29	16.59
16.48	16.78
16.65	16.95
17.20	17.50
17.28	17.58
VIII	/	17.42
IXA	M . 17.6CT
X	17.69
XI	17.89
XIA	18.10
XII	18.31
XIII	18.50
XIV	18.90
XV	/1	19.13
XVIFY '	20.07
17.72	J8.02
i/.HU —18.10 17.89	18.19
18.09	18.39
18.30	18.60
18.51	18.81
18.70	19.00
19.10	19.40
19.33	19.63
20.27	20.57
Jan.1
1988
16.44
16.60
16.79 16.98 17.15 17.70 17.78 18.12 18.22 18.30 18.39
18.59
18.80 19.01 19.20
19.60 19.83 20.77
67
APPENDIX “A’
JOB
CLASS
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
JOB CLASS
CLASSIFICATION RATES ($/HR)
CLASSIFICATION	01/01	01/10	01/07	01/01
86	86	87	88
Labourer	15.74	15.94	16.24	16.44
Ashman
Apprentice 0-6 mth.
Sampler III
Utilityman-Explosives
Cokeside Inexperienced	15.90	16.10	16.40	16.60
Silo Control Operator Apprentice 7-12 mth.
Chalnman 0*12 mth.
Plant Operator IV	16.09	16.29	16.59	16.79
Apprentice 13-18 mth.
Oiler Trainee-Drill
Shovel
Chalnman 13-24 mth.
Brattlceman	16.28	16.48	16.78	16.98
Pump Operator Serviceman Service Truck Dr.
Supplyman Apprentice 19-24 mth.
Chalnman 25-36 mth.
Greenhouse-Nursery Attd
Tracklayer	16.45	16.65	16.95	17.15
Powderman’s Helper Hoistman Sampler ii
Apprentice 25-30 mth.
Chalnman Over 36 mth. 17.00	17.20	17.50	17.70
68
VII
VIII
IX
IX	A
X
17.00	17.28	17.58
17.42	17.62	17.92
Continuous Miner Faceman Shuttle Car Operator Backhoe Operator Apprentice 37-42 mth.
Lorryman Miner Timberman Mobile Lift Op.
(9T & Over)
P.M. Repairman Load Haul Dump Operator Warehouseman Oiler-Drill -Shovel
Plant Op. ill Sampler I
Apprentice 31-36 mth. Truck Dr. 25-50 T. Cokeside Experienced Load Point Operator Supply operator
Mobile Loader Op.
Tool Crib Attd.
Drill Op. (7-11)	17.52	17.72	18.02
F.E. Loader Op.
(Under 15)
Grader Operator Plant op. II 100T Truck Driver Scraper operator Air Track Operator Auger Truck Operator Trackmobile Operator
Jackleg Operator	17.60 17.80	18.10
Crusher Operator	17.69	17.89	18.19
Dozer Operator Breaker St. Op.
69
17.78
18.12
18.22
18.30
18.39
Uncert. Tradesman Cont. Miner Mech. Apprentice 43-48 mth. Pusher Operator Tarman
Twin Scraper Op.
Tlreman F/A Attendant (with ticket)
Screening Plant operator
XI	200T Truck Dr. Apprentice 49-54 mth. Powderman	17.69	18.09	18.39	18.59
	service op.. Explosives				
Xl A	350T Truck Dr.	18.10	18.30	18.60	18.80
XII	Drill op. over 11	18.31	18.51	18.81	19.01
Shvl. Op. UndBr25 F.E. Loader Op. over 15
Apprentice 55-60 mth. Equipment Jockey Plant Operator I Exploration Drill Operator
XIII	Control Am. Op.
(Except E.V.) Shovel Op. Over 25 Monitor op. I & II cont. Miner op. I&ll
Boiler operator (Class 4)
18.50	18.70	19.00	19.20
XIV	EJV Central Cnirl.	18.90	19.10	19.40	19.60
Room Operator
70
XV	Crane Operator	19.13	19.33	19.83	19.83
(SOT &Over)
XVI	Cert. Tradesman	20.07	20.27	20.57	20.77
Partsman-L/D
Certified
cert, stationary Eng.
Michel
Utlllt. Mtce Man Station 3 operator
APPENDIX ‘B’
THE WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND LOCAL 7292,
U.M.W.A. RETIREMENT AND BENEFIT PLAN
The Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, U.M.W.A. Retirement and Benefit Plan (herein called “The Plan”) is a FUNDED PENSION PLAN:
BETWEEN:
Local 7292, UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
(hereinafter called “Union') of the first part
AND
WESTAR MINING LTD., Sparwood, B.C. (Hereinafter referred to as “Employer”) of the second part
71
A FUND known as Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, U.M.W.A. RETIREMENT AND BENEFIT PLAN was established on January 1st, 1976, and will be maintained actuarially sound by monies paid by the Employer signatory to this Agreement and is administered solely for the use of those members of Local 7292 of the UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA, as described herein.
PART I
1.	a) “Members in Good Standing” shall mean any
person certified by the Union as being members in good standing.
b) “Contractors” or “subcontractors” shall mean Ace Explosives Limited, Dicken Bus Lines, or Fred Sowchuk Trucking Ltd.
2.	A. Commencing January 1,1976, Service subject
to the provisions herein, shall be all the time spent as a member in good standing and employed by the Employer or any of the subcontractors or contractors of the Employer, or by the Union,
(i)	Prior to January 1, 1976 Service shall be all the time spent as a member in good standing and employed by any Mine Operator or the contractors or subcontractors of any Mine Operator that contributed to the Welfare and Retirement Fund of District 18, United Mine Workers of America located at Calgary, Alberta.
72
(ii)	To be eligible for Service prior to January 1, 1976, a person shall have been employed by the Employer or the Union on December 31, 1975 or any of the Employer's contractors or subcontractors on December 31,1976 except as provided in Part 1-2-A (iii) below. Anyone not employed on December 31, 1975, by the Employer or December 31,1976, by any of the Employer's contractors or subcontractors shall not be eligible for any service prior to January 1, 1976, except as provided in Part 1-2-A (iii) below.
(iii)	All full-time Union officers and staff who
had any service with the Employer or any of the contractors of subcontractors of the Employer shall be covered by all the terms of this Agreement. Time spent as a Union officer or staff shall be credited service for all benefits contained in this Agreement, provided that the Union Officer does not receive a pension from the U.M.W.A. Pension Plan based on such service.
(iv)	Employees of contractors or subcontractors doing work for the Employer shall be covered by all the terms of this Agreement.
B. Service Qualification before January 1,1976.
1.	A year is twelve (12) calendar months.
2.	A quarter shall be a period of three (3) months ending on March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31.
73
3.	The Trustees shall determine in all cases what shall constitute a year's service. For their guidance, a year's service shall be one in which the member performs work in a job classified in the pertinent collective agreement for at least, and not less than, two quarters for any employer who contributed to District 18 Welfare and Retirement Fund; provided
(i)	The member shall receive credit for a calendar year for two quarters active military service in the Canadian Armed Forces or in any Allied forces during war time or by compulsion during peace time, served in that year.
(ii)	The member shall receive credit for service for absences due to injury covered by Workers' Compensation, sickness or personal injury off the job.
C. Service Qualification commencing January 1,
1976.
1.	An employee shall receive a full year's credit upon having worked a minimum of one thousand (1,000) hours during the calendar year.
2.	An employee shall receive Fractional Year's credit in direct proportion to the hours worked in any calendar year if such employee has worked less than one thousand (1,000) hours, (e.g. - If an employee has worked nine hundred (900) hours, credits shall be ninety percent (90%) of a full year; if an employee has worked four hundred
74
and fifty (450) hours, credits shall be forty-five percent (45%) of a full year.)
3.	An employee shall be credited as working if he is on Workers' Compensation or off work due to sickness or injury off the job. An employee shall receive eight (8) hours credit for each day not worked due to the causes stated herein. An employee may be laid off for a maximum of twenty-four (24) consecutive months at any one (1) time and upon return to work (recall) shall be given credit of eight (8) hours work per day for each day not worked during that period of lay off up to the maximum of twenty-four (24) months credit.
4.	A member shall be credited as working, for purpose of pension service, if he is receiving a Disability Benefit from this fund. A member shall receive eight (8) hours credit for each day not worked due to the disability.
5.	For additional credited service only:
It is agreed that if the Company requests a member of the Plan to retire early, between the age of fifty-five (55) and sixty-five (65), and the member accepts, such member shall be given additional months and years of credited service as though the member had worked to age sixty-five (65).
PART II
1. The Plan shall be operated and administered by a Board of three (3) trustees to be constituted and
75
nominated as follows: One (1) Trustee shall be nominated from time to time by Local 7292, United Mine Workers of America; One (1) Trustee shall be nominated from time to time by the Employer. A Third Trustee shall be selected from time to time by mutual agreement of the above two (2) Trustees. Failing agreement, application may be made by either Trustee, within seven (7) days, to the Minister of Labour, Province of British Columbia, to make such selection.
2 In the event that the position of either of the nominated Trustees becomes vacant from any cause including resignation, death, incapacity or unwillingness to act, the Party who nominated such Trustee shall immediately appoint a successor to fill the vacancy, and in the event that such appointment is not made within ten (10) days after the vacancy occurs, then the appointment shall be made in the manner aforesaid by the Minister of Labour, Province of British Columbia, upon application of any party to this Agreement.
3.	(a) The Trustee nominated by the Union or any suc-
cessor to him shall resign as Trustee upon the written request of the Union and the Trustee nominated by the Employer or successor to him, shall resign upon the written request of the Employer.
(b) The Union Trustee shall be one of the following Officers of Local 7292, United Mine Workers of America: the President, the Secretary-Treasurer or the Vice-President of Local 7292.
4.	Should either of the nominated Trustees be temporarily incapacitated from acting due to illness or
76
to other cause, such nominated Trustee may, by an instrument in writing, appoint a Deputy Trustee to act in his place during the continuance of such temporary incapacity.
5.	Any Trustee appointed hereunder as the successor of a Trustee where a vacancy has occured for any cause and any Deputy Trustee appointed as above set out shall have and exercise all the power hereby conferred upon each of the Trustees as if such Trustees had been named.
6.	All monies heretofore and hereafter received for the purpose of The Plan shall be deposited with the Administrator in trust for the purposes herein contained and shall constitute an irrevocable trust for the benefit of the members of the Union from time to time in good standing as defined here. The Administrator shall be selected by the Trustees; the Trustees shall enter into a Trust Agreement with the Administrator, detailing the powers and responsibilities of the Administrator under The Plan. Title to all monies paid into The Plan shall be vested in and remain exclusively with the Administrator. No benefits of the monies payable from this fund shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, enhance or charge, and any attempt so to anticipate, alien, sell, transfer assign, pledge, or charge the same shall be void. The Plan shall not constitute or be deemed to be wages due to the individual member, nor shall The Plan be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities or torts of the parties entitled to such fund, namely the beneficiaries of such trust under the terms of the Agreement. The Employer
77
hereby renounces and forever releases any and all claims to and interest in payments made or to be made to The Plan.
7 The Administrator shall forthwith, after receipt thereof, deposit all monies received in respect to The Plan in a branch of a Chartered Bank, Credit Union or Trust Company located in the province of British Columbia. The Administrator shall conduct an aggressive but prudent investment policy with all monies. All monies shall be held in trust for the Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, U.M.W.A. Retirement and Benefit Plan.
8.	The monies in The Plan and any earnings from the same shall be invested from time to time and the Administrator is hereby authorized to buy, sell and otherwise deal with the securities in such a manner as he deems in the best interests of l-he Plan. The Administrator shall be empowered to sign and issue all benefit payments from The Plan.
9.	All monies in The Plan are to be invested by the Administrator in fully registered securities or other investments as rapidly as business exigencies permit, provided however, that the Administrator may, and is hereby authorized, to keep on hand deposits in bank account or accounts or short term securities such amounts as he thinks requisite for the current needs of The Plan.
10.	All matters to be determined by the Trustees shall be decided by a majority. Should either of the nominated Trustees fail to attend by himself or his Deputy at any meeting of the Trustees of which seven (7) days notice has been given to such Trustee, the same may be treated by the other
78
Trustees as an act of disagreement.
11.	The Trustees shall appoint an Auditor, who shall be a Chartered Accountant, for The Plan who shall audit The Plan not less than once every year and shall certify the 'esults of his audit to the Trustees, the Union and tie Employer.
12.	The Administrator shall keep proper records of all receipts and expenditures and shall prepare an annual report to December 31st of each year thereof containing such statistical and actuarial material as the Trustees may think necessary and supply the same to the Union and the Employer not later than the 1 st day of March in each year.
13.	The Trustees shall be at liberty from time to time at their discretion if any difficulty arises, as to any matter relating to the collection or administration of The Plan or with regard to their duties hereunder to take the opinion of such counsel as they may determine and shall be at liberty in their discretion to act thereon.
14.	The Trustees shall not receive any remuneration or other monies from The Plan as compensation for the performance of their duties, except for the neutral Third Trustee.
15.	The Employer shall pay to the Administrator in equal monthly installments a minimum of forty-five thousand dollars ($45,000.00) per calendar month or the amount, if it is greater, determined by an annual actuarial study conducted bv an Actuary selected by the Trustees. Effective January 1,1987 monthly Installments shall be a minimum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) par calendar month. The liability
79
for such payment shall continue as long as there is a Collective Agreement in effect between the Employer and the Union and thereafter as long as the terms of such Collective Agreement are being continued by mutual consent or are ineffect by operation of law. Such payments shall be made by cheque monthly in favour of The Plan, and shall be made on or before the 20th day of each calendar month. If the Employer is late in submitting the monthly payment, he shall pay interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum, calculated daily, for each day the monthly payment shall be due and owing commencing the first day the monthly payment is in arrears.
16.	The contribution required effective January 1, 1984 is forty-five thousand dollars ($45,000.00) per month. Effective January 1, 1987 monthly Installments shall be a minimum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) per calendar month. In the event the amount stated above is inadequate, as determined by an actuarial evaluation conducted effective January 1,1984, the Employer agrees to make such future contributions as required to actuarially fund The Plan. Any contributions found by the Actuarial Report to be in excess of those required shall not be used to decrease the Employer's future contributions.
17.	The monies provided to be paid by the provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall constitute a debt from the Employer to The Plan and may be recovered by a suit in the name of The Plan by the Trustees and failure to pay any sum so due may in addition be considered by the Union as a breach of
80
the Collective Agreement on the part of the Employer.
18.	The Employer shall make contributions to The Plan of forty-five thousand dollars ($45,000.00) per month, or the amount, if greater, based on the last annual actuarial evaluation conducted as per Section
19.	Effective January 1,1987 the Employer shall pay fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) per calendar month. The Employer shall continue monthly contributions based on the last actuarial evaluation conducted until such time as the annual evaluation of The Plan is completed.
This increase shall become payable from January 1st of the calendar year in which the actuarial evaluation is concluded.
19.	The Trustees shall have an actuarial evaluation conducted on The Plan once every calendar year, to determine if the monies paid to The Plan by the Employer are sufficient to fund the pensions and benefits contained in Part Ill of this Agreement.
20.	Except for such payments as are provided for herein; for the investments of the said sums; for the payment of income tax, if any, and for the charges of the said bank, no withdrawals shall be made by the Administrator from The Plan's account or accounts. The Administrator shall not in any event borrow monies on account of The Plan nor expend funds or contract for their expenditure beyond those already at their disposal from time to time.
21.	The Trustees shall have the power and are hereby entitled to verify the correctness of the payments made from time to time by the Employer and for this
81
purpose may call on the Employer to have the returns duly verified by statutory declaration made by some responsible officer of the Employer. In the event of default in payment by the Employer, the Trustees may take such steps as they deem advisable for the collection of any arrears payable.
22.	The monies from time to time available in The Plan shall be used exclusively for and disbursed by the Administrator for the benefit of the members of Local 7292, United Mine Workers of America, as stated in Part III of this Agreement and the Administrator shall serve and administer The Plan so long as it remains in existence as herein provided. The Administrator may be replaced at the discretion of the Trustees.
23.	Any notice to the Employer shall be served by mailing a copy to the Employer's address. Any notice to be served to the Union shall be left at the Union office in Sparwood, British Columbia. If any party to this Agreement changes address, such party must notify the Trustees immediately.
24.	Neither the Trustees nor the Administrator shall be answerable for the default or misconduct of any agent or employee. A Trustee or the Administrator, shall only be liable for gross negligence or intentional default in the execution of any trust hereunder.
25.	Where provision is made in this Agreement for an appointment to be made by the Minister of Labour, Province of British Columbia, an application to the Minister shall be made after seven (7) days notice in writing has been given to the other party to this Agreement.
82
26 Each of the parties hereto agrees to do all things and execute all documents that may be reasonably required in order to carry out the spirit and intent of this Agreement.
27.	All costs and fees incurred in connection with the preparation and distribution of this Agreement shall be paid by the Employer.
28.	The decision of the Trustees made pursuant to this Agreement shall be upon real merits and justice of each case and no decision of the Trustees shall be binding upon the Trustees as a percedent for any other decision or ruling.
29.	The Trustees are responsible for the overall management of The Plan and shall determine all questions of eligibility for membership and benefits to be paid in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
30.	Any decision of the Trustees shall be subject to the right of the member affected to have his case reviewed from time to time upon production of new information or evidence by the applicant.
Members entitled to receipt of benefits under this Agreement shall provide to the Trustees such affidavits, declarations and statements as may, in the sole discretion of the Trustees, from time to time be required by the Trustees. Failure to provide such affidavits, declarations and statements as required may result in suspension of benefits until such documentation is received by the Trustees.
32.	Any applicant for or recipient of benefits under this Agreement who knowingly and willingly falsifies any records or makes representations or statements in
83
order to secure or to continue to secure benefits under this Agreement shall be barred from receiving any benefits from The Plan on the basis of such false claims or representations. The Trustees shall have the right to prosecute recipients of benefits where benefits have been received based on false records, representations and/or statements, This action must be taken within five (5) years of the matter arising.
33.	The Trustees may make such rules, prescribe such forms and perform such acts as may be deemed necessary by them for carrying out the provisions of this Agreement and not inconsistent therewith.
34.	The Trustees shall ensure that a complete record of Service of all working members is accurately compiled showing each member's Service to December 31, 1978, and for each year thereafter. Every member, once each calendar year, may request a complete record of his Service and the Trustees will ensure that his request is fulfilled.
PART III
BENEFITS AND PENSIONS EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1st, 1984
A.	DEATH BENEFITS
1.	Dependent Benefits:
If an employee, or a person entitled to benefits under the Plan dies, the Administrator shall pay the sum of one thousand, five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) to such dependent person or persons deemed proper, subject to the following:
84
(a)	Such payment may be made to a dependent or may be divided amongst any or all dependents as the Trustees shall decide.
(b)	For the purposes herein the following only shall be considered to be dependents:
(i)	The spouse of the deceased who at the time of his death was supported by the deceased.
(ii)	A child, parent, brother, sister, or near relative of the deceased whose principal means of support at the time of death, was the deceased.
(c)	Such payment may be made to a common-law spouse of the deceased or any illegitimate child or children in which case the formula used by the Workers' Compensation Board of B.C. shall be followed by the Trustees.
(d)	Such payment may be made to persons who are outside Canada, only where it is clearly established to the satisfaction of the Trustees that such person will actually receive such payment.
(e)	Where there are no dependents, as indicated above, the Trustees may approve the payment of five hundred dollars ($500.00) to relatives or the estate of the deceased for expenses incurred.
2.	Death Benefits shall be paid within thrity (30) days after the properly completed application and necessary affidavits are received by the Administrator.
3.	II the deceased member was entitled to a pension (vested) on the date of death, seventy-five percent (75%) of the vested member’s pension shall be transferred to the spouse and the
85
w-'-r/i
spouse shall be entitled to that portion of the pension accumulated to the date of death of the deceased member. The spouse shall commence receiving the pension at age sixty-two (62).
B.	DISABILITY BENEFITS
1.	Any member in good standing who has five (5) years or more of service and who is not eligible to retire shall be entitled to Disability Benefits if judged by a qualified medical Doctor approved by the Trustees, to be unable to perform work on any job which available to him.
2.	Disability Benefits shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) per month for each and every month an employee is disabled and unable to perform work on any job which is available to him. Effective January 1, 1985 this benefit shall increase to five hundred and fifty dollars ($550.00) per month. Effective January 1,1987 this benefit shall Increase to six hundred dollars ($600.00) per month.
3.	(a) Applicants for and recipients of benefits hereun-
der shall submit themselves for medical examinations by a duly qualified medical doctor approved by the Trustees, and a report from such doctor shall be furnished to the Trustees with the application and shall certify as to:
(i)	The condition of the member
(ii)	His fitness for employment in coal mining or in some suitable occupation which he is capable of performing
(iii)	If unfit, the cause of unfitness
(iv)	Such other matters as may be in the opinion of the doctor be pertinent to the claim.
86
(b)	Any applicant for or recipient of benefits hereunder may be required by the Trustees to submit himself for further medical examination by one or more duly qualified medical practitioners appointed by the Trustees.
(c)	Failure by a member to submit himself for medical examination when requested by the Trustees, may in the discretion of the Trustees result in refusal of the application or suspension of benefits until such time as the required medical examination has been completed.
4,	The Trustees after consideration and investigation of each application and consideration of the medical certificate(s) pertaining thereto, shall decide whether the applicant is entitled to receive benefits hereunder and in what amount in accordance with the conditions outlined herein.
5	When a member to whom benefits hereunder are payable changes address, he shall notify the Administrator immediately.
6	Under no circumstances are benefits hereunder to be paid on account of medical aid.
7.	After approval by the Trustees, payment of benefits shall commence for the calendar month that the properly completed application was received. Payment of benefits shall terminate upon death of the member or upon the member’s reaching tho age of sixty-two (62) years or upon recovery from his disability and medical declaration of his fitness to return to work. The last payment shall be made for the month in which death occurred or age sixty-two (62) was reached or such medical declaration of fitness was made.
87
8.	A member receiving a Disability Benefit who reaches age sixty-two (62) shall be eligible to receive a Retirement Pension as per Section C below. All the time a member is receiving a Disability Benefit shall be credited as service for Pension entitlement under Section C herein.
9.	A member who is receiving a Disability Benefit with less than ten (10) years of Service at age sixty-two (62), shall continue to be eligible for a Disability Benefit, until age sixty-five (65) if, by remaining eligible, he would then become eligible for a Normal Pension as provided in Section C below.
C.	RETIREMENT PENSIONS
The pensions provided herein shall be funded as outlined in Part II. In addition all past service unfunded liabilities created on or after January 1,1980 as a result of an improvement in benefits shall be funded over a period not to exceed ten (10) years. Past service unfunded liabilities created prior to January 1, 1980 shall continue to be funded on the fifteen (15) year schedule established effective January 1, 1976. An employee shall earn a vested right to pension benefits from The Plan after completion of ten (10) years of Service, as defined in Part I. The normal retirement age under The Plan shall be age sixty-two (62). 1
1.	NORMAL RETIREMENT
Covers all members of the Union who were employed on December 31, 1975, by the Employer or any contractor or subcontractor of the Employer or who became employed at a later date and who retired on January 1,1976 or any time thereafter.
88
(a)	All members, who retire with ten (10) years of Service or more as stated in Part I, Section 2, shall receive twenty dollars ($20.00) per month for each year of Service. The maximum pension benefit payable is five hundred dollars ($500.00) per month, based on a maximum of twenty-five (25) years of service. Effective January 1, 1985 the benefit shall increase to twenty-two dollars ($22.00) per month and the maximum pension benefit to five hundred and fifty dollars ($550.00) per month, based on a maximum of twenty-five (25) years of service. Effective January 1, 1987 the benefit shall increase to twenty-four dollars ($24.00) per month and the maximum pension benefit to six hundred dollars ($600.00) per month, based on a maximum of twenty-five (25) years of service.
(b)	Any member who is receiving a Disability Benefit under this agreement, shall, upon reaching age sixty-two (62), forfeit all rights to the Disability Benefits and shall receive a Pension under The Plan based upon his years of service, except as provided in Part III, Section B.9. The Pension shall begin in the first calendar month following the calendar month he reaches sixty-two (62) years of age.
2.	DEFERRED VESTED PENSION
Covers all members of the Union who left their employment on or after January 1, 1976, and before reaching the retirement age of sixty-two (62) years and had a minimum often (10) years of credited service at the time they left their employment with the Employer or any of the Employer's contractors or subcontractors
89
(a)	All members of the Union who had ten (10) years of service or more and left their employment before age sixty-two (62), shall, upon reaching age sixty-two (62), be entitled to a pension of twenty dollars ($20,00) per month, for each year of service. The maximum Deferred Vested Pension payable shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) per month, based on a maximum of twenty-five (25) years of service. Effective January 1, 1985 the Pension benefit shall increase to twenty-two dollars ($22.00) per month and the maximum deferred vested pension payable shall be increased to five hundred and fifty dollars ($550.00) per month. Effective January 1, 1987 the pension benefit shall increase to twenty-four dollars ($24.00) per month and the maximum Deferred Vested Pension payable shall be increased to six hundred dollars ($600.00) per month.
3.	JOINT AND SURVIVOR ANNUITY OPTION
A person, upon retirement, may elect to receive a full pension (normal or deferred vested), or he may elect to receive a pension of a lesser amount in order to provide the same pension for his spouse upon his death. The amounts of his pension, if he elects a joint and survivor annuity option shall be the actuarially determined equivalent of his normal or deferred vested pension benefit. The decision of the Actuary shall be approved by the Trustees before pensions payable under the joint and survivor annuity option can be paid.
NOTE: Common-law arrangements shall be judged the same as the Workers’ Compensation Board of British Columbia allows.
90
4 GENERAL PROVISIONS
(a)	No member shall have personal right to, claim to, or interest in any of the monies in The Plan or any right to, claim to, or interest in, anticipation or expectancy in any of said monies either prior to or after contribution thereof by the Employer except as provided herein
(b)	No payment of retirement pensions shall be made to any member for any month during which such member is employed by the Employer in any full-time capacity.
(c)	Where a member, after having been in receipt of retirement pension, becomes employed in any employment in the coal industry, other than casual employment, he shall not be entitled to make application for retirement pensions until the termination of such employment. Casual employment shall mean having worked for less than six (6) months per calendar year, or as other wise defined by the Trustees.
(d)	The first payment of retirement pensions becomes due when the applicant retires under the terms of The Plan. The first payment shall be made upon approval by the Trustees of the completed application and shall include all, if any, retroactive benefits owing the retiree from date of actual retirement.
(e)	Payment of retirement pensions shall terminate upon death of the member except that if a member has elected to receive the joint and survivor
91
annuity option as stated in Section C.3, the pension shall terminate upon the death of the spouse, The last payment shall be made for the calendar month in which the death occurs.
(f)	The Trustees, after consideration and investigation of each application and the evidence submitted as to age and length of service, shall decide whether the applicant is entitled to receive benefits hereunder and in what amount in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Any member who is contemplating retirement may make application at any time during the six (6) months immediately preceding the contemplated date of retirement, to have his age and service qualifications checked and approved by the Trustees.
(g)	When a member to whom pensions hereunder are payable changes his address, he shall notify the Trustees.
(h)	Each member of The Plan shall receive a written explanation of the terms and conditions of The Plan and amendments thereto applicable to him together with an explanation of the rights and duties of the employee with reference to the benefits available to him under the terms of The Plan and such other information as may be prescribed by statute.
(i)	All pension payments shall be made no later than the 15th day of each calendar month (includes disability benefits.)
92
(j)	At all times the Union and the Employer, signatory to this Agreement shall provide all the information requested by the Trustees.
PART IV
(a)	The benefits and pensions contained in this Agreement shall not be retroactive and shall commence on January 1, 1984. Any member of the Union who left his employment prior to December 31, 1975, shall not be entitled to any benefits or pensions contained in this Agreement, except as provided in Part I, Section 2 A(iii).
(b)	The Plan shall be a part of the Collective Agreement between the Union and the Employer.
(c)	The terms, conditions, pensions, and benefits contained in The Plan shall be in full force and effect and shall continue past the expiry date until a new Agreement on The Plan is concluded and signed between the Union and the Employer named herein.
(d)	The Plan shall remain in effect until midnight of December 31, 1988 and thereafter from year to year until the Union shall give notice, in writing, to the Employer to terminate, change or modify the same at least ninety (90) days prior to its expiry date.
93
The Parties of this Agreement have signed and executed this Agreement, the Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, U.M.W.A. Retirement and Benefit Plan for Local 7292, United Mine Workers on the
____th day of __________________ 1986. This
Agreement becomes effective January 1st, 1986.
UNITED MINE WORKERSOF AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
E. DeAnna, President Local 7292
J Caldwell. Secretary/ Treasurer, Local 7292
WESTAR MINING LTD.
J.E. Gravestock, Director corporate Labour Relations
R.E. Vankoughnett, Superintendent Employee Relations
DATE
94
CO
cn
Westar Mining
Job Posting Application (U.M.W.A.)
Supervise:	Date	j TT-e 1
		
White — .3D PosT'-'p 3zr Canary — oy=e ' Cccv
APPENDIX C”
Westar Mining
JOB VACANCY POSTING
DEPARTMENT ____________POSTING NUMBER_____
POSTING DATE___TIME ___EXPIRY DATE____TIME
JOB TITLE___________JOB CLASS___RATE OF PAY
CREW NUMBER ___NUMBER OF VACANCIES________
8
Job Classes I - IX -Awarded by Seniority
IXA - XVI - Awarded by Seniority provided the applicants have the ability to perform the work.
Job Posting Applications may be obtained from your foreman and must be returned to him prior to the expiry date and time shown above.
APPENDIX “C”
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
This letter is written for clearer definitions of Article 14.04 of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 14.04 reads:
“Selection of overtime shall be shared equitably amongst those employees within the classification and work area in which overtime is required.”
The words “classification” shall mean “Job Classification and the words “work area” shall refer to the areas Harmer, Michel, Elkview and Reclamation.
Where the Company is aware at least two (2) hours before the start of the shift that overtime is required then every effort will be made to make such overtime available to employees within the job classification in which the work is requirea. Where the Company is unable to fill the overtime requirements through employees within such classifications then the work may be assigned to other employees within the work areas provided they are able to perform the work.
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF	WESTAR MINING I TO
AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
fc DeAnna President Local 7292
J t Gravestock, Director Corporate Labour Relations
J Caldwell, Secretary/ Treasurer, Local 7292
R t Vankoughnett, Superintendent Employee Relations
DATL
7 K Webster, Asst Superintendent Employee Relations
97
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN!
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
The Company will maintain an “oiler trainee” program as follows:
a)	Employees will enter the program through Article 19 of the Collective Agreement at Job Class III.
b)	Rates of pay will be:
Month 0 to 6 Job Class 111
Upon successful completion of the training period, employees will be reclassified to Job Class VIII. Successful completion to be determined by practical evaluation and written examination.
Should a trainee fail to qualify at the conclusion of the program, he will be required to spend a further three (3) months in the program prior to repeating the examination, Should the trainee fail again at the conclusion of the three (3) month extension period, he shall be required to bid and obtain another available job within a thirty (30) day period, otherwise he will revert to a labourer classification and will be unable to rebid on the oiler trainee position for a further twelve (12) months.
It is further understood and agreed that the contents of this Memorandum of Agreement will neither set precedent nor prejudice similar future cases.
98
UNI TED MINE WORKERS OF	WESTAR MINING LTD
AMERICA, LOCAL 72.02.
E DeAnna, President	J E Gravestock, Director
Local 7292	Corporate Labour Relations
J Caldwell, Secretary/ Treasurer, Local 7292
II L Vankoughnett, Superintendent Employee Relations
DATF
T K Webster, Asst Superintendent Employee Relations
99
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
The following represents examples of the administration of Article 12.02 of the new Agreement. (Vacation Entitlement).
EXAMPLE A
Employees having their second or third anniversary falling any time during 1984 will be entitled to three (3) weeks eighteen (18) days pay or six percent (6%) whichever is greater which they can take in 1984.
EXAMPLE B
Employees having their fourth through tenth anniversary falling during 1984 are entitled to four (4) weeks twenty-four (24) days pay or eight percent (8%) whichever is greater which they can take in 1984. EXAMPLE C
Employees having their eleventh through twentieth anniversary falling during 1984 are entitled to five (5) weeks thrity (30) days pay or ten percent (10%) whichever is greater which they can take in 1984.
UNITED MINE WORKER OF	WESTAR MININGLID.
AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
LOCAL 7292
E DeAnna, President
J. Caldwell, Secretary/ Treasurer, Local 7292
DATE
100
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
The parties understand and agree that the method of application of regular daily pay will be in accordance with the examples outlined in this Letter of Agreement.
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Article 11.04 shall be administered in accordance with the following:
Whenever an employee is entitled to 11.04 (b) and/or (c) and/or (d) as part of his regular assigned scheduled shift then he shall also receive(b) and/or (c) and/or (d) as part of his statutory holiday entitlement.
In seven (7) day work schedule, the shift differential used in this calculation will relate to the regular work schedule immediately prior to the stat holiday. For Monday through Friday work schedule, the shift differential used in this calculation will relate to the normally scheduled shift for that calendar week in which the holiday occurs.
VACATION
Article 12.06 shall be administered in accordance
with the following:
Whenever an employee is entitled to 12.06 (a) and/or (b) and/or (c) and/or (d) as part of his regular
101
assigned scheduled shifts then he shall continue to receive (a) and/or (b) and/or (c) and/or (d) for each day of vacation pay.
The shift differential used in this calculation will be in accordance with the shift schedule had the employee not gone on vacation.
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
E. DeAnna, President Local 7292
J. Caldwell, Secretary/ Treasurer, Local 7292
DATE
WESTAR MINING LTD
J.E. Gravestock, Director Corporate Labour Relations
R.E. Vankoughnett, Superintendent Employee Relations
T.K. Webster, Asst. Superintendent Employee Relations
102
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
This letter constitutes a Letter of Agreement between Wester Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, United Mine Workers of America as it pertains to apprenticeship job postings.
Where the Company finds it necessary to fill an apprenticeship position which vacancy has arisen as a result of:
(a)	The incumbents reaching journeyman status -the Company will then post the vacancies at the 0-6 level.
(b)	An apprentice leaving the apprenticeship plan, then such vacancy will be posted at the level vacated.
(c)	The Company expanding the numbers within a trade or where a new trade apprenticeship is introduced, then the Company will post the required number of vacancies throughout the apprenticeship classification.
The parties agree that this action will serve as full resolution to the grievance in question.
103
UNITED MINE WORKERSOF	WESTAR MINING LTD
AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
E DeAnna, President	J E. Gravestock, Director
Local 7292	Corporate Labour Relations
J. Caldwell, Secretary/	R.E. Vankoughnett,
Treasurer, Local 7292	Superintendent Employee
Relations
DATE
T K. Webster, Asst. Superintendent Employee Relations
104
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
This letter constitutes a Letter of Agreement between Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, United Mine Workers of America, as it pertains to the chainman training program (Article 20.08).
It is the intent of the training program that Chainmen enrolled in the program be given periodic pay increments based on time.
A “Chainman” who does not enroll in the program will remain at the 0-12 month rate - Job Class II.
For a “Chainman” who enrolls in the program, his rate of pay will be increased to the next increment twelve (12) months after his enrollment in the program. Should a Chainman drop out of the program after say eighteen (18) months, his rate would remain as Chainman 13-24 months.
It was the negotiated intent that the rate increments be an encouragement for individuals to increase their skills and knowledge in the surveying field, and thus, the rate increases should apply only to these individuals.
105
UNITED MINE WORKERSOF	WESTAR MINING LTO
AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
E. DeAnna President	J E. Gravestock, Director
Local 7292	corporate Labour Relations
J. Caldwell, Secretary/	R.E. Vankoughnett,
Treasurer, Local 7292	Superintendent Employee
Relations
DATE
T K. Webster, Asst. Superintendent Employee Relations
106
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
The parties understand and agree that a direct bank deposit system will be implemented which will provide for employees pay to be available at the bank of their choice (from the list attached) every second Thursday at 3:00 p.m.
Each employee will be required to provide in writing to the Company Payroll Department, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of ratification their selection of bank and account number. Any employee who does not wish to utilize a regular bank account will advise the Company in writing of the master bank (as designated on the attached list) of their choice. Employees will then pick their pay up at the bank each pay day.
UNI rED MINE WORKERS OF	WESTAR MINING LI D.
AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
E DeAnna, President Local 7292
J Caldwell Secretary/ Treasurer, Local 7292
DATE
J E Gravestock, Director Corporate Labour Relations
Ft E Vankouyhnett, Superintendent Employee Relations
T K Webster, Asst Superintendent Employee Relations
107
SPARWOOD
FERNIE
BLAIRMORE
COLEMAN
BELLEVUE
HILLCREST
Royal -(Master Bank)
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
Bank of Nova Scotia Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (Master Bank)
Bank of Montreal Toronto Dominion
Bank of Nova Scotia
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
Credit Union
Royal Bank of Canada (Master Bank)
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Credit Union
Royal Bank of Canada
Credit Union
108
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
This letter will confirm the Agreement reached between Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, United Mine Workers of America.
1.	Effective April 1, 1980, Westar Mining Ltd. will perform the functions currently being performed by the employees of Ace Explosives Ltd. on Westar Mining Ltd. property and these functions will no longer be subcontracted out except for experimentation of new explosive products only.
This will be accomplished as follows:
2.	(a) The new positions will be posted in accordance
with Article 19 as service operator - Explosives Job Class XI and if required, utility man - Explosives Job Class I. (non truck driver or major explosives mixer).
(b)	Should the Company be unable to fill the posted positions from within, then qualified Ace Explosives employees posting on these positions will be awarded the job in order of Ace Explosives seniority, (i.e. - the most senior person bidding shall be first, etc.)
In this instance, Ace Explosives employees shall apply by submitting an application on the job posting
109
(c)	In the event that there are not enough jobs for all of Ace Explosives employees at their present jobs, then Westar Mining Ltd. shall offer alternate available jobs to those employees who are displaced.
3.	(a) An Ace Explosives employee who accepts employment with Westar Mining Ltd. effective April 1, 1980, will have their seniority with Ace Explosives recognized by Westar Mining Ltd. in all respects except for the purpose of job posting and layoff. Linder these circumstances, seniority shall commence April 1, 1980, the date of employment with Westar Mining Ltd.
(b)	The Ace Explosives position, lead hand will continue to be recognized as a Westar Mining Ltd. position after April 1, 1980. After April 1, 1980, it shall be governed by the Collective Agreement between the parties,
(c)	For the period January 1, 1980, to March 31, 1980 the present Ace Explosives employees shall be paid one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour for hours worked in addition to their respective rates for 1979. Commencing April 1, 1980, the hourly rate shall be as contained in the Westar Mining Ltd. Agreement for Job Class XI or I.
(d)	Those Ace employees who accept employment with Westar Mining Ltd. will not be eligible to receive either severance pay or termination benefits from Ace Explosives Ltd. as defined in the Ace Collective Agreement.
110
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF	WESTAR MINING LTD
AMERICA. LOCAL /202
E DeAnna, President	J E. Gravestock, Director
Local 7292	Corporate Labour Relations
J Caldwell, Secretary/ Treasurer. Local 7292
A E Vankoughnett, Superintendent Employee Relations
DATE
T K. Webster, Asst Superintendent Employee Relations
m
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
This letter constitutes a Memorandum of Agreement between Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, United Mine Workers of America as pertains to the employees covered in the Variance of Certification, issued by the Board of Labour Relations on May 8, 1977.
All the terms and conditions as stated herein shall be in full force and in effect from May 8,1977 to the date of implementation.
Thereafter all affected employees will be covered by the terms and conditions of the current Collective Agreement between Westar Mining Ltd. and Local 7292, United Mine Workers of America.
Marshalling Points
Shall be the place known as the Hostel Office. Shift Schedule
The normal work week will be day shift Monday -Friday 8:00 - 4:00 (twenty (20) minutes paid lunch).
Seniority
All affected employees will maintain seniority based upon their most recent date of hire.
112
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF	WESTAH MINING LTD
AMERICA, LOCAL 729?
E. DeAnna, President	J.E Gravestock Director
Local 7292	Corporate Labour Relations
J Caldwell, Secretary/ Treasurer, Local 7292
R E Vankoughnett, Superintendent Employee Relations
T K Webster, Assl Superintendent Employee Relations
113
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
This will confirm the following understanding and agreement between the parties with respect to foremen:
a)	It is agreed that the Company may appoint employees as foremen in accordance with past practice prior to the decision of the Labour Relations Board of British Columbia dated November 10, 1981.
b)	It is further agreed that if the appointment is for a period not to exceed forty-five (45) days worked per calendar year that during such time the employee's job shall not be posted.
c)	If an employee works beyond the forty-five (45) working days, as noted above, such employee's job shall be posted. Following the extended assignment he shall be required to pay a further initiation fee to the Union and comply with the job posting provisions of Article 19.
d)	The Company shall advise the Union every two (2) weeks of the employee’s name and duration of assignment including shifts worked as a Foreman.
In consideration of this agreement the Union agrees to withdraw Grievance No. 08-01-80 and the Union shall not initiate any new grievances during the term of the present Collective Agreement with regard to foremen who work no more than the forty-five (45) days in a calendar year.
114
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF	WF.STAR MINING LTD
AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
E DeAnna, President	J E. Gravestock, Director
Local 7292	Corporate Labour Relations
J Caldwell, Secretary/ Treasurer, Local 7292
HE Vankoughnelt, Superintendent Employee Relations
DATE
1 K. Webster, Asst Superintendent Employee Relations
115
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
This letter confirms that the Company agrees to:
a)	Print one thousand and three hundred (1,300) copies of the Memorandum of Terms of Agreement for distribution to the membership.
b)	The Company agrees to print and pay for two thousand (2,000) booklet form Collective Agreements following ratification. The booklets will be available for each current employee and two hundred (200) copies will be given to the Union.
UNITED MINE WORKERSOF	WESTAR MINING LI D.
AMERICA. LOCA 7292
E. DeAnna, President Local 7292
J.E Gravestock, Director Corporate Labour Relations
J. Caldwell, Secretary/ Treasurer, Local 7292
R.E. Vankoughnett, Superintendent Employee Relations
DATE
T.K Webster, Asst Superintendent Employee Relations
116
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTAR MINING LTD.
AND
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7292
This letter will confirm that the Company has agreed to pay all employees a lump payment as follows:
On ratification of the Collective Agreement (January 1, 1986 to December 31,1988) and return to work all employees shall be paid a three hundred dollar ($300,00) lump sum payment. Such payment to be included in the first pay period following ratification of the Collective Agreement.
Dated at Sparwood, B.C. on the____________day of
_________________ 1986.
UNITED MINE WORKERS Of	WESTAR MINING LTD
AMERICA, LOCAL 7292
E DeAnna, Presidonl	J E Gravestock, Director
Local 7292	Corporate I ubour Relations
J Caldwell, Secretary/ Treasurer I ocal 7292
R E Vankoucjhnett, Superintendent Employee Relations
DATE
T K Webster. Asst Superintendent Employee Relations
117
APPENDIX “D”
TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE
Appendix "D" only applies to employees working twelve (12) hour shifts in the Surface Mining Division as defined in Section 14.01(a) of the Collective Agreement in effect between the parties signatory hereto.
All the terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement shall be in full force and effect except for the specific amendments, and or additions stated in this Appendix "D”.
This Appendix “D” shall be part of the Agreement between the parties signatory hereto.
The twelve (12) hour shift schedule will be implemented on a trial basis for a period of four (4) months. The trial period will commence based on agrei
The signatories hereto have to agree before/the twelve (12) hour shift schedule will be implemented permanently. The employees shall decide, by secret ballot, to accept or reject the four (4) month trial period and/or the permanent implementation of the twelve (12) hour shift schedule.
Tne twelve (12) hour shift schedule is subject to the approval of the Ministry of Mines.
Article 10 - Reporting Pay and Minimum Daily Pay
Section 10.01 -Amended to read as follows:
“An employee who reports to work for this twelve (12) hour shift as scheduled without having been
ween the parties.
118
notified not to report and for whom no work is available, or who works less than six (6) hours will be allowed six (6) hours pay at the rate of the job for which he was scheduled to report”.
Section 10.02 -Amended to read as follows:
“An employee who reports for work on his scheduled shift and who works in excess of six (6) hours shall be provided work to complete his twelve (12) hour shift or be paid for the full twelve (12) hours in lieu thereof.
Section 10.04 -Amended to read as follows:
“(a) Where an employee is called out to work outside his regular work schedule, he will receive a minimum of six (6) hours pay at overtime rates, EXCEPT THAT
(b)	Where an employee is called out and reports for work prior to the regular starting time and continues to work through his regular shift, he shall receive at appropriate overtime rates:
(i)	Pay for hours actually worked in advance of his regular starting time when twenty-four(24) hours notice has been given,
OR
(ii)	Six (6) hours pay or pay for actual hours worked in advance of his regular shift, whichever is greater when twenty-four (24) hours notice has not been given”.
Article 11 - Holidays
Section 11.04 - Amended to read as follows:
"All employees shall be paid their regular daily pay plus overtime, where applicable as per Article 14,
119
for holidays not worked. Regular daily pay shall include:
(a)	Twelve (12) hours at classified rate of pay
(b)	Underground premium where applicable.
(c)	Hot change where applicable.
(d)	Shift differential where applicable”.
Sub-Section 11.05(b) - Amended to read as follows”
“Elect to receive twelve (12) hours pay in lieu thereof in addition to his regular vacation pay. In electing either option (a) or (b) above, the employee must meet all provisions of Article 11".
Section 11.10- Amended to read as follows:
“Article 11.04 and 11.09 shall be interpreted and applied in accordance with the following chart:
CALCULATION OF PAYMENT FOR STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
NOT WORKED
MONDAY -SATURDAY
SDW
SDO
SUNDAY STATUTORY
SDW
SDO
120
worked 12 HOURS
MONDAY-SATURDAY
SDW
SDO
SUNDAY STATUTORY
SDW
SDO
NOTE : SDW — Scheduled Day Worked SDO — Scheduled Day Off
3.	Article 12 ■ Vacations
Sub-section 12.05 (4) -Amended to read as follows: “Employees working the twelve (12) hour shift schedule may elect to have complete shift rotation or weeks as time off, but their vacation pay shall be governed by Sections 12.02 and 12.06"
4.	Article 13 ■ Rates of Pay
Section 13.06 -Amended to read as follows:
“Shift Differential
Shift differential will be paid for all hours worked on the night shift as follows: Night Shift $1 07 per hour.
NOTES: a) On shift rotations that are midnight to noon, the night shift shall be from 12:01 a.m. to 12 noon on shift rotations that are
8:00 a.m.to 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m., the night shift shall be from 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m
b) No shift differential will be paid for employees working the day shift.”
121
5.	Article 14 ■ Hours of Work and Overtime
Sub-section 14.02 (a) and 14.02 (b) - Amended to read as follows:
“(a) All employees working a twelve (12) hour shift schedule shall be paid overtime at the rate of time and one-half for:
1.	The twelve (12) hours worked on Sunday that are part of the regular twelve (12) hour work schedule.
2.	The first twelve (12) hours that are worked on scheduled calendar days off, except Sunday.
(b) Overtime at the rate of double time shall be paid for all hours worked:
1.	On Sunday, when it is a scheduled day off.
2.	On a scheduled day of work, Sunday to Saturday, which are not part of the regular twelve (12) hour shift schedule for that calendar day.
3.	On scheduled days off, Monday to Saturday, that are in excess of twelve (12) hours worked in any calendar day.
4.	That are in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours in any one (1) period of time
Section 14.02(d) - Add the following new sub-section: "(d) An employee that works in any calendar week shall receive one (1) additional overtime hours pay at his classified straight time rate of pay in addition to the actual hours worked during that calendar week (i.e.: if during a calendar week an employee works thirty-six (36) hours, he shall be paid thrity-six (36) hours, as provided in the Agreement, plus he shall be paid one (1) additional hour at his straight time classified rate)".
122
Section 14.03 - Sub-section (a), (b), and (c) shall be amended as follows:
(a)	Twelve (12) hours work commencing at his designated marshalling point will constitute a work day for all employees.
(b)	In each twelve (12) hour shift, employees will have the following rest breaks:
At the end of the 2nd hour-one 15 minute rest break At the end of the 5th hour -one 20 minute rest break At the end of the 8th hour-one 20 minute rest break At the end of the 10th hour - one 15 minute rest break
The Employer retains the right to schedule the rest breaks.”
6.	Article 16 - Employee Conditions
Section 16.18 -Amended as follows:
“Employees volunteering to work fourteen (14) or more consecutive hours will be provided a meal at the twelfth consecutive hour of work or at the employee's option he will be given a meal allowance of six dollars
($6.00)."
7.	Article 18 - Leave of Absence
Sub-section 18.02(b) - Amended to read as follows:
“The employee shall receive pay at his regular daily pay, as defined as; twelve (12) hours at classified rate of pay, underground premium where applicable, hot change where applicable and shift differential where applicable, for any such excused shifts he would have worked provided it is established that there was a death in the immediate family.”
123
8.	Article 19 ■ Job Posting
Section 19.02 -Amended to read as follows:
“All permanent vacancies will be posted within four (4) working days of the vacancy occurring and will be posted for a period of five (5) working days. The successful applicant shall be awarded the posting within four (4) working days of the closing of the bid. The Employer shall post the name of the successful applicant in all areas”.
9.	Article 20 -Training
Sub-section 20.01 3.(f) - Amended to read as follows:
“Wherever reference is made to a year as an apprentice ii shall mean a period of not less than one thousand and six hundred (1,600) hours or one hundred and thirty-three (133) working days.
Said period to include time spent at the vocational school. In the event a participant works less than one hundred and thrity-three (133) days and has attended vocational school within the year, he will subject to approval of Apprenticeship Industrial Training Branch, be given an opportunity to take the required test”.
10.	Appendix “B” - Retirement and Benefit Plan
Amended as follows:
“Credit as working:
Wherever reference is made in Appendix "B” to eight (8) hours it shall become twelve (12) hours for employees working the twelve (12) hour shift schedules”. 11
11.	General
(a) The employees shall select, by secret ballot vote which one (1) of the attached three (3) shift
124
schedules they prefer to work with respect to twelve (12) hour shifts (Appendix “A”).
Following the Initial trial period, the employees may elect to try one (1) other of the two (2) remaining schedules for an additional trial period. On each of the three (3) schedules employees shall be given the option of working either of the following shift rotations:
(i)	12:01 a.m. to 12:00 noon, and 12:00 noon to 12 midnight,
OR
(ii)	8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., and 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
(b)	The following understandings shail apply to twelve (12) hour shifts that rotate on the basis of 8:00 a.m to 8:00 p.m., and 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.:
1.	A statutory holiday shalt include all hours from 8:00 a.m. on the day of the statutory holiday to 8:00 a.rr,. the following day.
2.	The calendar week (seven (7) consecutive days) shall start at 8:00 a.m Sunday and end at 8:00 a.m. the following Sunday.
3.	The calendar day shall be the twenty-four (24) hour period from 8:00 a.m. one day to 8:00 a.m. the following day.
4.	Sunday shall include all hours from 8:00 a.m. on Sunday to 8:00 a.m on Monday. This same principle applies to all other days of the week.
(c)	The following understandings shall apply to any twelve (12) hour shift schedule
1. An employee will not be penalized, with respect to holiday pay, for absences on the last scheduled shift on Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve.
125
2. “Shift Rotation” shall mean any number of consecutive scheduled work days plus the consecutive days off that immediately follow such scheduled work days.
UNITED MINE WORKERSOF	WESTAR MINING LTD.
AMERICA. LOCAL 7292
E. DeAnna, President Local 7292
T Hume Vice-President
J. Caldwell Secretary/Treasurer
F. Leskosek Recording Secretary
J. Mittlestead District Board Member
J E Gravestack, Director-Corporate Labour Relations
R.E Vankoughnett, Superintendent Employee Relations
T K. Webster, Asst. Superintendent Employee Relations
I.M Berzins
Employee Relations Advisor
B Swaney, secretary/	C. Britcd, General
Treasurer, District 18	Superintendent Surface Mining
H Fahey Shoo Steward
G Brust, Superintendent Coal Processing
M. Gordon Shop Steward
F. Poch	DATE
Shop Steward
126
INDEX
Subject
Abnormal
-Weather.
- Wet pay
Article
16.10
16.09
Absence
- Leave of for:
Berevement	18.02
Co m pass io n/ J o u r n ey s 18.01 Union activities	4.06
. Union officials	4.07
-Without permission (AWOP).	22.01
Acceas
To Property-Union officials 16.17
Accident
Fatality	15.09
-	Investigation	15.04
Page
43
43
50
49
12
12
60
46
40
38
Agreement
-Employees covered by ..	2.01	1
Management rights	3.01	11
- Parlies t o	26.01	64
-Purposeof	1.01	1
Term	of	26.01	64
LETTERS OF -Distribution ot overtime 97 -Oiler trainee	98
-	Vacation entitlement 100
Regular daily	pay..	101
-Apprenticeship j o b postings 103
-	Chainman Training Program 105 -Ace Explosives 109 -Marshalling points, shift schedules,
sen I o	r	i t	y 112
-	Temporary foreman	..	114
-Bank deposits	107
-	Printing of Agreements, withdrawal
of discipline	116
-Extended Health Care
127
INDEX
Subject	Article	Page
Appendix		
-Appendix ‘	‘A” - Wages & classification	67
- A p p e n	d i x “B’1 -Pensions	71
-Appendix	“C" - Job vacancy posting	95
Arbitrators/Arbitration
-Appointment of arbitrators
- Grievances	5.06	15
- Contracting out	2.05	2
Areas -Defined	19.07	52
Assignment
-Of wages..................... 4.03
A.W.O.P. (see Absences)
Benefits
-	Insurance - Life and A.D.&D.	17.01 (a)
-	Sickness and Accident 17.01(b) -Medical 17.02
-	D e n t a I 17.06
-	Optical	17.08
-Severance Pay 24.00 -Termination 25.00
11
47
47
48
48
49 61 63
Bereavement Leave ,	18.02	50
Breaks
- L u n c h 14.03(b)	36
-Rest ..............14.03(a)	36
Bumping	8.03	18
Bussing ............13.11	34
128
INDEX
Subject	Article
Call out	to.04
Care for Mine	0 01
Cessation of Work	9 01
Check-off
- Union duos & initiation	4.03
No Company responsibility	4.04
Christmas Bonus	23.01
Classification
- Job classes	Appendix A
New	classifications	13.02
Dual job.	13.03
Overtime in	14.04
Coal
House	10 04
Coke and By-Products	16 05
Continuous Miner
Crew	13.10
Continuous Service	a.01
Crew Reductions.	8.03
Disability
. Pertaining to job postings	8 04
Long term Appendix B
Disputes
Procedure to settle
14.02(b) 129
Page
22
16
21
11
12
61
67
32
32
37
41
42
34
17
18
19
71
13
36
Double Time
INDEX
Subject	Article	Page
Dual Classifications	13.03	32
Dues		
- Union; assignment of	4.03	11
Employees -Covered by the Agreement	2.01	1
- Excluded from Agreement	2.02	1
-Of contractors	2.03-2.05	2
-To care for mine	6.01	16
Exploration Personnel	16.11	44
Grievances
-Adjustment of -Committee
-	Procedure ..
-	Policy, Hiring
Preference
5,01	13
5.03	14
5.04-5.06	14-15
5.07	16
16.08	43
Holidays
-Statutory Holidays.	11.01
-Observance of	11.02
-	Quality for payment of	11.03
-Within Vacation..,. 11.05 -Calculation of payment for	11.10
-	Define regular daily pay.	11.04
-Permission to work	11.06
-Birthdays	11.01
23
23
24
24
25
24
25 23
Hours of Work
- Definition of work week	14.01	34
Regular shift schedules by department	14.01	34
130
Subject
Hydraulic Monitor
-	Crew
Immediate Family
-	D e f i n
Incentives
INDEX
Article
13.10
e d 18 02(a) 10 06
Injured Workman.. 15.06
Life
Insurance
-Group
-	On clothing
Job Postings
Application
-	Requirement:; to post -Posting form -Timing of posting
7 iming of award/reclassification B y seniority...............
form
17.01 17.04
Appendix C
19.01
Appendix C
19.02
19.03
19.04
By ability................ 19.04
-Training and orientation 19.05-19.06 Bidding areas/restrictions	19 07-19.09
-Bidding into	Prop Plant	1910
- Bidding as Drill Oiler	19.11
Bidding as C M. Op. or
Hydraulic O	p	.	19.12
Credits in job classes
IX(a) - XVI	19.13
Labourers	19.14
Reposting	19 15
Jury Duty.
18.03
131
Page
34
50
43
39
47
48
95
50
96
51 51 51
51 51.52
52 52 52
53
53
53
53
50
INDEX
Subject
Layoff
-Procedure, - Due to changes Lead Hands. Lunch Breaks (see Breaks) Management Rights
Marshalling Points o w a n c e
Meal All Medical
e f i t s
Article	Page
8.03	18
8.05	19
13.08	33
3.01	11
16.11	44
16.18	46
17.02	48
10.01	21
10.04	22
17.02	48
Letter	a
19.06	52
14.02(a)	35
14.02(b)	36
14.04	37
14.05	37
16.18	46
-	Ben
Minimum Pay
-	Reporting -Call out
M.S.A.
New Construction Orientation Period
Overtime
-Rates at time and one-half -Rates at double time
-	Distribution of
-	Vo l u n t a r y
- M	e a	I s ,
132
Subject
INDEX
Article
Pay
Ratos	of.
-	Wet pay . ..........
Regular daily pay
Call out ..............
Reporting .............
-	Pay day ............
Appendix
■ ■ ■	16.09
defined'1.04 ■ ■	10.04
.. 10.01 . .	1307
Pension ........... 7.01-7.03
(Cont’d) .................... Appendix B
Preference
-of employment -Job bidding . . .
Premiums
-Shift differential - Underground . -Lead hand. . . .
Physical Exams
16.08
8.04
13.06 16.13 13.08
15.07
Promotions/Transfers ......... 8 02
Protective Clothing ........... 16,08
Pyramiding................. 14 02(c)
Qualifications & Progression
-	Elkviow Plant operators
Drill oilers........
-	Faceman to C.M. Op and
Hydraulic Op...............
133
19.10
19.11
19.12
Page
A 67 43 24 22 21 33
16-17
71
43 19
33
44
33
39 17
40 36
52
52
53
INDEX
Subject
Article
Rates
-Hourly rates,, , . ■ • Appendix A -Overtime... 14.02 Over rates...	13.05
-Red -circled. ..	808
-	New rates/classification	■	13.02
-	Regular daily pay-defined	■	11.04
-Statutory holidays	•	11.10
Re-Classifying
19.03
Recognition
-Company recognition of U.M.W.A.	4.01
- Union recognition of Company. 3.01
Red Circled 8.03-13.05
Re-Posting	19.15
Retirement Appendix B Rest Breaks 14.03(c) Rights
-Management 3.01
-	To investigate accidents 15.04
Safety
-Accident Prevention Committee 15.01
-	Meetings/tours/inspections 15.03
-	right of Union to investigate 15.04 -Monthly meeting minutes. 15.05
-	B o o t s ,	15.08(c)
-Other protective clothing 15.08
Savings Clause 21.00 134
Page
67
35
33
20
32
24
25
51
11
11
18-33
53
71
36
11
38
37
38 38 38 40 40
60
INDEX
Subject
Article
Scope of Agreement Security Checks
Seniority
Commences after . Broken	by	.
-Job posting Lists
Severance Pay
Shifts
Rotation
Differential
- S c h e d u l
Changes o f
2 01 16 14
8.00 8.01
. 8.02 19 04 16.12
8.06-24.00
i 8.04 1 3.06 e S 14.01 14.06
Sick Benefits
7.01(b)
Statutory Holidays (see “Holidays)
Subcontracting
Surveyor
-	Training f o r
Termination
-Benefits.
-	For A.W.O.P ..........
Retirement
Time and One-Half fools
While in apprenticeship Supplied by Company Allowances
2.03-2.05
20 08
25 00 22.01 12 08
14.02(a)
20.05 16.0 I I 6 03
135
Page
I
45
17
17
17
51
44
20-61
33
33
34 37
47
2
59
63
60
31
35
58
41
41
INDEX
Subject
Article Page
Training 20.00
-	Apprenticeship trades 20.01 -Schedules. 20.02 -Allowances. 20,04 -Selection for training 20.07
-Chainman......... 20.08
-Premium for 13.09
Transportation (see bussing)
Tuition Reimbursement 16.15 Vacations
-Eligibility 12.01 -Entitlement 12.02 -Vacation week defined.	12.03
-Scheduling of, 12.05
-	P	a	y	.	12.06
-Statutory holidays during 11.05
Washhouse Facilities 16.07
53
54
56
57 59 59 34
45
26
27
28 28 30 24
43
136