agreement
between
SOtMCI	O-O.	,	
SFF.	jaMiki	
raiKIfTTlF^		
. No. 6F ' IMHOVIIS		to.i.0 .
NOMH1 MM novli		L.U).
CU iQjfiA,. L £*>■££ -
enr^i
Strncn..
0H8and»0ioup
AMD
EFFECTIVE:
Apill 19,1992 to M«y1.1«»t
«8 28 892
OOZ-Q^ato
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article	. Igfias 'll	
I	Purpose	7
II	Recognition	2
III	Management Rights	3
IV	Union Relations	3
V	Hours of Work	5
VI	Overtime	12
VII	Salaries	16
VIII	Vacations	17
IX	Holidays	23 i * 26
X	Leave of Absence	
XI	Promotion, Seniority, Transfers, Training and Progression Charts	27
XII	Layoff and Discharge	31
XIII	Grievance Procedure	34
XIV	Safety, Health and General Conditions	37
XV	Incorporation of Overtime Agreement	38
XVI	Effective Date, Duration and Amendments	<39)
Appendix "A"	Salary Groups	41
	Salary Schedules, Effective 92-02-01	
	Monthly - A, B, D, Cf Gf F	4S
	Monthly - E, H l	46
	Bi-Weekly - A, B, D, C, Gr H, E, F	47
	Salary Schedules, Effective 93-02-01	
	Monthly - A, Bf D, Cr G, F	48
	Monthly - E. H	49
	Bi-Weekly - A, B, D, C, G, E, E, F	50 .
Appendix "B*	Master Maintenance Progression Notes	51
	Electronics Department Chart & Notes	53
	Plant Industrical Maintenance Chart & Notes	56
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article		59
Appendix "B"	Mobile Equipment Maintenance Chart & Notes	
	Central Maintenance Department Chart & Notes	64
	Extraction Operations Chart & Notes	66
	Upqradinq Operations Chart & Notes	70
	Utilities Operations Chart & Notes	74
	Laboratory Department Chart & Notes	78 |
	Materials Department Chart & Notes	SI
	Overburden Department Chart & Notes	84
	Mine Department Chart & Notes	87
Appendix "C"	Overtime Coverage for Upgrading, Utilities, Extraction Progressions	92
	Overtime Coverage for the Mine and Overburden Progressions	94
Appendix "0"	Letter of Understanding #1 Clothing Allowance	95
	Letter of Understanding #2 Article 6.08(a)	97
	Letter of understanding #3 Productivity and Efficiency	98
	Letter of understanding #4 Article 11.07 (b)	99 1
	Letter of Understanding #5 Safety, Health and Industrial Relations Training	100
	Letter of Understanding #6 Department, Union, Company Relationships	101
	Letter of Understanding #7 Harassment	102
	Shi£t Schedules 1992	103
	Shift Schedules 1993	107 I
	Shift Schedules 1994	jLJ
SUNCOR INC.,
OIL SANDS GROUP
OF WE FIRST PART
AND
Ml INDEPENDENT OIL WORKERS LOCAL 707 ENERGY AND CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION
OF WE SECOND PANT
is JL day of 4ui*r_	1992
This AGREEMENT entered into thi between SUNCOR INC., OIL SANDS GROUP, hereinafter referred to as "the Company" and the McMURRAY INDEPENDENT OIL WORKERS, LOCAL 707 ENERGY AND CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION, hereinafter referred to as "the
Union".
The PARTIES hereto mutually agree as follows:
1
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.01	a) The purpose of this Agreement it to promote
harmonious relations between the Company and the employees; encourage safety; 'promote the morale of all employees through procedures for the fair and peaceful resolution of grievances and disputes; to provide a means for continuing dialogue between the Company and the Union that has the mutual objective of resolving differences and matters of concern to either party and to promote a shared commitment to effactive and efficient operation in the interest of both parties.
b> It is understood that wherever this Agreement refers to he/she, it will also mean him/her.
ARTICLE II “ RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent for all nonsupervisory employees excluding office staff, messenger-drivers, Loss Management staff, survey crew and those employed in a confidential capacity in matters relating to labour relations; the Union having been certified by the Labour Relations Board as Bargaining Agent on behalf of the said Employees.
2.02	If the Company implements, during the life of the Agreement, a new job not currently covered by this Agreement, the Conpany shall notify the Union of this new job and the salary which would be applicable. If the Union disagrees with the salary established by the Company, the Union shall advise the Conpany in writing of their desire to negotiate the salary. If agreement is not reached between the parties within thirty (30) days of the written notice, the matter nw be referred, for determination, to arbitration in accordance with Article 13. If the salary for the job is changed as a result of negotiations or an arbitrator's decision, the revised salary shall be paid retroactively' to~ the data the employee was assigned to the new job. This same procedure will apply to Collective Agreement provisions pertinent to the introduction of a new operating or maintenance department into the Suncor Inc., Oil Sands Group organization.
2
3.01
4.01
4.02
4.03
ARTICLE ZZI > MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Company shall retain and exercise all management functions, duties and responsibilities except as limited/ restricted or precluded by this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - UNION RELATIONS
This Agreement shall be administered and applied in a fair and just manner to all employees. The parties further agree that there shall be no intimidation of and no discrimination against an employee either by the Company or by the Union, by reason of activity or lack of activity in, or in respect of the Union or by reason of sex, race, creed, colour, national origin, political or marital status.
The Union agrees that, during the life of this Agreement, there will be no strike, slow-down or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout either complete or partial.
a)	The Company agrees to recognize twenty-two (22) duly elected or appointed Union Stewards throughout the Plant, with any increase in the number of such Stewards being subject to mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. Additionally, up to four (4) temporary Stewards may be appointed for periods not to exceed six (6) months, provided that the Company is notified in advance of the name(s) and area(s) of the appointee(s). The Company agrees to recognize only those Stewards whose names have been submitted in writing to the Company by the Union.
,b> The Company agrees to recognize certain committees to be comprised of Stewards included in (a) above, to participate in meetings as follows:
i) Monthly Meetings * A committee normally composed of up to five (5) Union Stewards shall meet with Management monthly to discuss and settle matters falling within the scope of this Collective Agreement.
Additional meetings may be called by either party giving notice to the other party.
ii> Grievance Hastings! A grievance committee appointed or otherwise selected by the Union to assist and/or represent employees in the presentations of any grievance that may arise under this Collective Agreement, shall consist of no more than five (5) members of the Union.
3
iii) Negotiating Meetings:	The Union negotiating
committee shall be composed of not more than one (1) Steward from each area of the plant. In the event that circumstances prevent the attendance of one Steward from each of the areas, then any five (5) Stewards, regardless of the area they represent, and as designated by the Union, shall constitute a legally comprised quorum for a particular negotiating meeting. Up to two (2) additional Stewards shall attend the meetings while negotiating their respective area notes, except during the negotiating of Master Maintenance Notes, when up to three (3) additional Stewards may attend. The Company will make arrangements to ensure that a participating Steward will not have to work a midnight shift before attending a negotiating meeting.
e) Any designated Steward attending meetings as are envisaged under this Article, and which are held during his working hours, will suffer no loss in pay for time spent in such meetings.
<*) A Union Steward may, with the permission of his Supervisor, leave his regular duties to investigate grievances and perform other Union duties under the Collective Agreement.
e) It is recognized that occasions nry arise which require the attendance of an outside counsel at one of the meetings set out in (b) above. In such cases, the party requesting the presence of such advisor shall Inform the other party of its desire, on a timely basis.
A.04	The Company will provide bulletin boards in suitable
locations, which may be used by the Union in posting notices of Union activities.
4.05	a) The Company agrees to deduct once a month from the
salary due and payable to each employee covered by Article 2.01, an amount equal to”the monthly Union dues determined from time to time by the Union pursuant to its Constitution. The total amount of such dues deductions shall be remitted by the Company, together with a list of names of employees from whom the deductions were made, to the Treasurer of the Union forthwith after the deductions are made.
b)	The deduction of monthly'dues constitutes a continuing condition of employment.
4
5.01
5.02
5.03
ARTICLE V - HOURS OF WORK
a)	A work day is defined as the 24-hour period starting at 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. of the following calendar day.
b)	The work week ahall be from 8:00 a.m. on Sunday to 8:00 a.m. on the following Sunday.
c)	The Company recognizes coffee breaks and lunch breaks, which will coincide with natural production breaks.
a)	"Day Employees" are defined in Article 5.03(a).
b)	"Shift Employees" are defined as those employees assigned to Shift #1> Shift #2, Shift #3 or Shift #4 schedules.
0)	"Continuous Shift employees" are defined as those employees assigned to a four shift, continuous work schedule.
a)	Qav Employ—
1)	The normal work schedule for day employees shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m., with one twenty minute break for lunch commencing between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, with Saturday and Sunday off.
ii)	The normal work schedule for day employees on a C^gpraflaed-,.Wnmk Waali schedule shall be specified i n
Article 5.07 with one 15 minute lunch break commencing between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m.
iii)	In the event an employee is unable to receive such break for lunch by virtue of a work assignment by supervision on a particular day, such employee ahall receive payment at the applicable overtime rate for the missed break.
b)	Employ,,
Shift #1, Shift #2, Shift #3 and Shift #4 employees will work shift schedules as outlined in Article 5.07.
o) Continuous Shift- ftmlnyHi Employees assigned to continuous shift work will work according to schedules as established by agreement between the Union and the Company from time to time. Specific hours and days of work within these work schedules shall be designated by the assignment of an employee to a letter on a work schedule. An employee shall be reassigned to a different shift letter on the work schedule when work load, shift vacancies, and the safe and efficient operation of the
5
plant requires it.
d)	In accordance with (a) , (b) and (c) above, the normal work schedule shall be specified in Article 5.07.
e)	Should it become necessary to introduce a new schedule or permanently alter an existing schedule, the new or altered schedule will be established by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
S.°4	a) i) The Company will give each eight hour continuous
shift employee the opportunity to have at least one "long change" in each 28-day cycle, provided the employee has not changed his shift. Saturday and Sunday shall be included in such a "long change".
ii)	The Company will give each twelve hour continuous shift employee the opportunity to have at least one "long change" in every two 16-day cycles or as otherwise specified in Progression Notes Appendix "B", provided the employee has not changed his shift.
b)	Beginning of cycles are defined in Article 5.07.
c)	11 28-Pay Cycle
If an employee is assigned to a different shift during the cycle as defined above, then for the purposes of earned days off, his cycle will continue on the shift to which he is transferred. If, at the completion of his new shift cycle, he has not received days off considering both part cycles in the ratio of one quarter (1/4) of the total number of calendar days in the period from the start of the cycle on his old shift to the end of the cycle on his new shift, then he will receive premium pay for the missed days off as defined in Article 6.01. This agreement is subject to the provisions of Article 6.11 re:	pyramiding of overtime.
ii) 16 Week Cycle
If an employes is assigned to a different shift during the cycle as defined above, then for the purposes of earned days off, his cycle will continue on the shift to which he is transferred.	If, at the completion of his
working cycle, he has not received days off considering both part cycles in the ratio of one-half (1/2) of the total number of calendar days in the period from the start of the cycle on his old shift to the end of the cycle or his new shift, then he will receive premium pay for the missed days off as defined in Article 6.01. Ibis agreement is subject to the provisions of Article 6.11 re:	pyramiding of overtime.
6
5.08
5.06
5.07
d) When employees are required to change to or f rot^. day, shift or continuous shift work schedule, proportionate consideration will be given to earned days off as ri (a) above.
a)	Employees with compatible qualifications shell be allowed shift exchanges/ provided no overtime or penalty payments result and further provided that their Supervisor is advised at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance. Shift exchanges may not be arranged if they would result i n an employee working more than twelve {12) consecutive hours.
b)	Shift exchanges may not be arranged if they would result in an employee being absent for mac than six (6) consecutive shirts. Mutuals ere deemed to be consecutive if there ie not a regularly scheduled shift worked between them.
The provisions of this Agreement respecting Compressed Workweek sahedule shall constitute en overtime agreement pursuant to the Employment Standards Act. A Compressed Work Week schedule shall constitute normal hours of work and shall not involve overtime payments, with the exoeption of two (2) hours per week overtime averaged over the cycle in Article 5.07 E, F and <3* If the daily hours of the schedule are exceeded, the excess daily hours shall be paid at overtime rater. If the daye off of tho schedule are worked, such drys worked will be paid at overtime rates. No additional claims for overtime related to the Compressed Work Week provisions of this Agreement, the Employment Standards Act, or Article 6, may be made by the employee.
lfgarh 5ght4ulta
A.	Day Employee
40 hours per vreek
Monday through Friday 8*00 a.m. to 4il5 p.xu
Saturday and Sunday off Weekly cycle starting Monday.
B.	Shift #2 Employees 40 hours per week
Monday through Friday, Saturday and Sunday off Day shift
-	8*00 a.m. to 4*00 p.n.
Afternoon Shift
-	4*00 p.m. to 12 midnight Night shift
-	12 midnight • 8*00 a.m.
Weekly cycle starting Monday.
7
C.	Continuous Shift Employees (28 day cycle)
-	average 42 hours/week
7 night shifts, two days off, 7 afternoon shifts, one day off,
7 day shifts, four days off Day shift
-	8100 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Afternoon shift
-	4:00 p.m. to 12 midnight Night shift
-	12 midnight to 8:00 a.m.
28 day cycle starting first shift of the night shift period
Overtime Aqgaameata - (per Employment Standards Act Section 26, 1980 as amended September 20, 1982)
D.	Day Employees
i)	10 hour shifts - 40 hours per week 4 days Tuesday to Friday
2 days off
4	days Monday to Thursday 4 days off
8:00 a.m. to 6:15 p.m.
2 week cycle starting on set of days starting Tuesday
OR
ii)	. S and 12 hours shifts - 40 hours per week Monday through Friday
* 8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
-	two weeks Monday off Tuesday, Thursday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Wednesday, Friday
-	8:00 am. to 8:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
-	two weeks Monday, Wednesday
-	8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, Thursday
-	8:00 p.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Friday off.
Six week cycle starting Monday, of the first five 8 hour day week
OR
8
ill) 8 and 12 hour shifts - 40 hours per week Monday through Friday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
-	two weeks
Saturday and Sunday off .
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Wednesday
-	8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Saturday and Sunday off Monday, Tuesday, Thursday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Wednesday
-	8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Friday, Saturday and Sunday off
Four week cycle starting Monday following Friday off.
E,	Shift, #1 Employees 12 hour shift - 42 hours per week average
i)	4 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4	days off
8 week cycle beginning set of days starting Sunday. OR
ii)	3-days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Wednesday to Friday
2	days off
4	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Monday to Thursday
5	days off and
3	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Monday to Wednesday 5 days off
4	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Tuesday to Friday 2 days off
2	week cycle beginning sat of days starting Monday OR
iii)	4 days Monday to Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
5	days off
5	days Wednesday to Sunday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4	days off
5	days Friday to Tuesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
5 days off .
4 week cycle beginning with the set of days starting on Monday
9
OR
iv)	4 days Tuesday to Friday 8:60 am to 8:00 p.m.
5 days off
5 day8 Thursday to Monday 8iOQ a.m. to 8x00 p.m.
4	days off
5	days Saturday to Wednesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. S day8 off
4 week cycle beginning with the set of days starting with Tuesday
F.	Shift #3 Employees 12 hour shifts - 42 hours per week average
4 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Tuesday to Friday 3 days off
3	nights 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Tuesday to Thursday
4	days off
H. Shift #4 Employees
8 and 12 hour shifts 40 hours per week Monday, Tuesday 8:00 am to 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 4x00 p.m.
Friday, Saturday, Sunday off Weekly cycle beginning Monday
OR
Tuesday, Friday 8x00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, Thursday 8x00 am. to 4:00 p.m.
Saturday, Sunday, Monday off Weekly cycle beginning Tuesday
OR
Monday, Thursday 8x00 a.m. to 4x00 p.m.
Tuesday, Wednesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Friday, Saturday, Sunday off Weekly cycle beginning Monday
6, Continuous Shift Employees 12 hour shifts * 42 hours per week average
10
i)	4 nights 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
2	days off
4 days 8:00 am. to 8:00 p.m.
6	days off
16 week cycle beginning first set of nights starting Sunday
OR
4 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
1 day off
4 nights 8:00 p.m. to-8:00 a.m.
7	days off
16 week cycle beginning first set of days starting Sunday
OR
3	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m*
3	nights 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
6	days off
12 week cycle beginning first set of days starting Sunday
OR
ii)	4 nights 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
4	days off
4 day8 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4 days off
16 week cycle beginning first set of nights starting Sunday
The Company shall have the right to temporarily alter schedules for Turnarounds or for unforeseeable and exceptional circumstances. It is the Company's intent that these changes will be mads following consultation with Area Steward(s).
5.08	a) The Company will make every effort to maintain a
stable schedule for every employee.
b) Temporary shift vacancies shall not be filled through the application of temporary shift changes.
11.
ARTICLE VI - OVERTIME
6.01
6.02
6.03
a)	Any work in excess of an employee's work day or in excess of that included as part of his work schedule or all hours worked on a statutory holiday or included as part of his work schedule when In excess of forty (40) hours per week, when averaged over the employees shift cycle shall be deemed overtime and paid at two (2) times the eaployee’s base hourly rate.
b)	The provisions of Article 6.02 (a) shall not apply if shift relief is delayed less than fifteen (15) minutes into a twelve (12) hour break.
e) For Compressed Work VUaek schedules the Company will implement voluntary standby procedures in accordance with the Progression Notes Appendix "B". The Company reserves the right to schedule employees for standby if the voluntary standby procedures do not supply sufficient personnel to safely and efficiently operate the plant.
a)	If an employee's schedule is such that he does not have a minimum of a twelve (12) hour break between work periods, he will work his scheduled hours and will receive two (2) times hie base hourly rate, until he has had a minimum of a twelve hour break. However, for reasons of safety only, his supervisor may instruct him to take a twelve (12) hour break. This paragraph does not apply to "call-outs".
b)	For employees on twelve (12) hour overtime agreements the specified breaks in 6.02(a) shall be read as ten and one quarter (10%) hours.
a) A Dty or Shift employee who has returned to his residence and is called for duty and who reports for work before or after ' nis regular shift shall receive the greater of:
i) The applicable overtime rate, or, ii) A minimum of four (4) hours' pay computed at the applicable overtime rate.
b> An employee who is called for duty under (a) above will not be required to perform non-essential work during the call-out.
a) If a call-out ends less than eight (8) hours prior to a Day or Shift employee's next regular shift, he shall take an eight (8) hour break with no loss of regular pay. An employee shall not be required to return to work on his regular shift for less than two (2) hours.
12
d)	If a call-out extends up to the commencement of 1W. regular shift, a Day or Shift employee shall normally take an eight (8) hour break. Sowsvsr, if requested to work after the commencement of his regular shift, he will receive the applicable overtime rate for the hours of h i s regular shift that ha works. Following completion of his call-out work, he shall take an eight (8) hour break, with no loss of regular pay for the remaining hours of his regular shift.
6*04	a) An employee who is required to work more than two (2)
hours beyond his regular stopping time and has not had eight (8) hour8 notice of this overtime prior to his shift shall be supplied with a suitable hot meal which will be eaten on Company time. For overtEBe scheduled with less than eight (8) hours prior notice, the Company will supply hot meals. These meals will be furnished thereafter at approximate four (4) hour intervals throughout the remaining period of continuous work.
b) Suitable hot meals will be delivered to employees assigned to duties which require the employee to remain at his place of work. Other employees will be allowed to eat their meals at the camp kitchen.
6*05	When an employee is required to make a special trip in
order to work overtime or when he is "called out" at other than regular shift change timesr transportation will be provided at Company expense.
a)	The Company will schedule buses, provide special transportation, or reimburse an employee who is requested and who agrees to provide his own transportation in
connection with an overtime assignment*-------- Company
transportation will be provided £o-thSw>ziial bus stops, or to an employee's home in Fort McMurray where possible when unscheduled transportation is provided.
b)	An employee who is called out or who works a sixteen (16) hour shift upon request shall be granted a room in
camp, to allow him to obtain maximum rest during the period before his next shift. A hot meal will be provided in camp prior to the start of hi8 next shift. A second meal will be provided at the next regular meal time as provided in Article 6.04 . All of the above will be provided at no cost to the employee
o) A special trip with respect to overtime work is defined as a trip to or from work, either before or after an overtime assignment, where there is no regular bus transportation scheduled within a reasonable period of time after the employee is called to report for work, or
13
6.06
6.07
6.08
after completion of the overtime shift.
If an employee is assigned to work on a schedule different from his regular schedule and his starting time on the new schedule is more than one hour sooner or later than the starting time under his schedule immediately prior to the change, he shall be paid two (2) times his base hourly rate for the first shift worked of the new shift schedule, unless the change is made:
a)	As an accommodation to or for the convenience of the employee.
b)	As a result of the employee being upgraded or promoted on a permanent basis.
c)	In returning an employee to his original schedule within 28 days, which he worked prior to the change.
*> So that the employee may attend off-the-job training, i.e.	in class, job related training, or plant
protection, or safety training.
No employee working on shift shall leave his working area until properly relieved, without the permission of Supervision.
a)	Consistent with Article 7.01 and within the six month periods ending June 30 and December 31/ annually, the Company will make every reasonable effort to distribute overtime work equally among employees, either within the pay classification where the overtime is required, if move up is not possible, or as otherwise specified in the Progression Notes, Appendix "B". Article 6.08 (a) shall not be applicable to employees in progressions where a "chit" system is utilized for the assignment of overtime.
b)	The Company will post overtime lists on all relevant area bulletin boards bi-weekly.
a) Refusal of overtime shall be considered as overtime worked for record purposes and will be recorded on the bi-weekly overtime list.
d)	For record purposes, upon permanent entry into a classification, or area as specified in the Progression Notes, an employee shall be assigned the current average overtime hours of all other employees within that classification or area.
e)	For record purposes, an employee who is absent from his regular duties on leave of absence or due to
14
6.09
6.10 6.11
illness/injury for more than sixty (60) consecutive calendar days shall be assigned the current average overtime hours for all other employees within the classification or area upon his return.
f)	Any distribution of overtime, found to be in violation of the provision of the Collective Agreement, will be resolved through mutual agreement between the wronged employee and their supervisor. Such agreement is limited to an overtime assignment of equal duration, at a time acceptable to both the employee and the supervisor, not more than forty-five (45) calendar days after the original overtime assignment giving rise to the claim or the date such original assignment was determined to be in violation, whichever is later. In the event the employee and the supervisor are unable to reach agreement to satisfy this forty-five (45) day limitation, the matter will be deemed to be settled and the employee will be recorded refused overtime for the number of hours in question. This forty-five (45) day period will be extended by the number of shifts an employee is absent from regular duties on an approved leave of four (4) or more consecutive days.
Such overtime assignment will not result in another employee being denied overtime as per the Chit Systems in Appendix "B* and "C".
g)	In accordance with the chit systems in Appendix B and C where two (2) or more employes's overtime hours are equal, the employee with the greatest area seniority will be offered the overtime first.
If an employee reports for an overtime assignment which has been cancelled or shortened with leas than eight (8) hours prior notice, he will be permitted to perform an alternate assignment of equivalent hours on that day.
An employee's overtime shall be calculated to the next quarter hour, in accordance with Article 6.01.
In no case shall payments be pyramided or paid under more than one provision of thio agreement unless specifically provided for.
15
ARTICLE VII - SALARIES
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06
All employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid on a monthly salary basis in accordance with Appendix "A" appended to this Agreement.. The monthly salary of employees has been adjusted in the salary schedule to include shift differential and average shift overtime worked as part of the work schedules as defined in Article 5.07.
Shift differentials in accordance with Appendix "A" are included in the monthly salary of all Continuous Shift, Shift #2, and Shift #3 employees. Shift Differentials in accordance with Appendix "A" will be paid to Shift #1 and Shift #4 employees for all straight time hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Additionally, shift differentials will be paid to Day employees for eight (8) or more consecutive overtime hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 an, to Shift #1 and Shift #4 employees for all overtime hours worked between 4x00 p.m. and 8:00 ajn. and to Continuous Shift, Shift #2 and Shift #3 employees for all overtime hours worked.
While an employee is temporarily assigned to a higher classification for other than his own training, he shall receive the salary for this higher classification in accordance with Appendix ”A”. Upon permanent promotion to a higher classification, an employee shall receive the salary for this higher classification in accordance w i t h Appendix *A*.
Employees who are temporarily assigned to a lower classification will have their regular rate of pay maintained.
Amendments to an eoployee's time sheet shall not be permitted without consultation with the employee concerned.
Any pay due an employee as a result of an error in his pay deposit or statement shall be made available by special cheque within ninety-six (96) hours, upon the employee's request.
16
ARTICLE VIII - VACA3I0VS
8.01 An employee after one year of continuous service shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay. A similar
vacation shall be taken each calendar year thereafter. During the first year af employment, an employee may elect to take one (l)week of his earned vacation after six (6) months of continuous service; in which event however, he will be eligible for only the remaining two (2) weeks of vacation with pay after the completion of that first year of continuous service. No employee shall receive acre then three (3) weeks vacation in one (1) calendar year unless he qualifies under Articles 8.02 or 8.12.
$.02	a) Daring the calendar year in which an employee
completes ten (10) years of continuous service he shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation. A similar vacation shall be taken each calendar year thereafter.
b) i) During the calendar year in which an employs* completes twenty (20) years of continuous service, he shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation. A similar vacation shall be taken each calendar year thereafter.
ii) During the calendar year in which an employee completes alas teen (19) years (affective January 1/ 1994) of continuous service, the enployee shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation. A similar vacation shall be taken each calendar year thereafter.
e)	During the calendar, year in which an employee completes twenty-five (25) years of continuous service, he shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation. A similar vacation shall be taken each calendar year thereafter.
$.03	Smplcyees will indicate vacation period preference in
advance of December 1st of each year for the following calendar year's vacation and vacation schedules for all earned vacation hours shall be posted by the Company by January 1st of each year.
8.04	a) An employe* who qualifies for vacation in accordance
with Articles 8.01 or 8.02 will receive vacation pay based on the greater of:
i)	his regular salary, or
ii)	for each hour of vacation taken, O.OSt of his regular salary as recorded for all tine worked during the 2f biweekly pay periods prior to the first day of the pay period ih which his vacation caxmences.
17
8.05
8.06
8.07
8.08
b> An employee may request in writing, at least thirty (3 0) calendar days prior to the commencement of his vacation, to receive a vacation pay advance on the pay day immediately preceding the commencement of nis vacation in accordance with la) above. The Company shall recover any vacation pay advance in the pay period(s) immediately following receipt of such advance.
c)	The Company shall make any vacation pay adjustment by the end of the first pay period immediately following the pay period during which an employee's vacation, or part thereof, is completed.
*> The Company shall publish on each bi-weekly pay statement the current vacation pay adjustment due to the employee and the earnings on which the calculation is based.
Should an employee become disabled as a result of sickness or accident immediately prior to commencing his vacation, or if he becomes disabled during hi* vacation, his vacation, or part vacation, shall be rescheduled in such a manner that he shall not lose his vacation by reason of such disability. In order to have his vacation rescheduled, such employee must notify his Supervisor of said disability as soon as possible. He must also provide proof of hospitalization, or submit a Doctor's certificate. The baric intent is to ensure that an employee receives his earned vacation where, because of a bonafide medical reason this may not have been possible. Under no circumstances is this section to be construed as an opportunity for premium pay in lieu of the earned vacation pay.
When a recognized holiday or holidays fall on one of an employee's scheduled vacation days, he shall take an extra day or days vacation with pay, to be taken either at the beginning or end of the vacation if scheduled, or at another time mutually agreeable to him and the Company. Cn___
An employee who is eligible for three (3) weeks vacation in a calendar year may split his vacation into three (3) parts. An employee wno is eligible for four (4) or more weeks vacation in a calendar year may split his vacation into four (4) parts.
Vacation allowance on termination shall be as follows:
a) In the case of an employee who has not become eligible for an annual vacation, the employee shall receive an amount equal to four (4) percent of his base salary for
18
8.09
the period from his date of hire to his termination date.
b> In the case of an employee who has become entitled to a vacation in accordance with Articles 8.01 or 8.02, he shall receive vacation pay, .baaed on 0.05% of hi8 accumulated base salary for each hour of vacation for which he is eligible, and as calculated for all straight time hours worked from his anniversary date in the year in which he last took vacation, leas any vacation pay already received during the calendar year in which he terminates.
a)	Up to 14% of the work force in one area will be allowed off on vacation at any time. At the Company/s option, this percentage may be increased. Fractional numbers of employees will be adjusted to the next whole number.
i)	Notwithstanding (a) above, up to 7% of the workforce in any one area will be allowed off on vacation at one time during a scheduled turnaround. Other arrangements may be made with mutual agreement between Area Management and Area Steward(s) . Full turnaround period will consist of the ten (10) days prior to turnaround, the scheduled turnaround and the ten (10) days after the scheduled start-up date.
b)	The manager and/or Supervisor will define in writing the combination of job positions he will allow to be on vacation at the same time. This will be posted by October 1st of aaoh year for the following calendar year's vacations.
a)	Once a vacation has been agreed upon by the Company and the employee, it can be changed only by:
i)	The employee with thirty (30) calendar days written notice to his area manager and/or supervisor. In case of layoff, the employee will have the option of electing to take his vacation prior to the layoff taking effect.
ii)	The Company in cases of emergency. The need to schedule relief coverage at overtime rates shall not be considered just cause for denying an employee his scheduled vacation.
d)	In the went that an employee's work schedule has been changed after the vacation list has been posted, the Company agrees the employee will have the option of s
i) taking his vacation as posted;
19
ii)	changing his vacation to fit into the new schedule, i.e., if such vacation was to be taken in conjunction with a "long change" on the old vacation schedule, the employee may rearrange his vacation to fit in con junction with a "long change" on the new schedule.
• ) Where work schedule changes have occurred, no other employee will be required to change his vacation due to such change.
*> In the event that an employee wishes to change his vacation period, no other employee's vacation period will be changed as a result, except where the employees concerned and supervision mutually agree to such change.
g) An employee will not be required to work any overtime on scheduled days off which fall in conjunction with his vacation*
8.10	a) i) Seniority for purposes of indicating vacation
period preference shall be defined as the number of vacation points accumulated by each employee in his department as of October 1st of each year. Such vacation points shall continue to accumulate from year to year as outlined in (d) below.
ii)	Within the constraints of other sections in Article VIZI, employees shall be eligible to select their annual vacation periods in order of most assigned vacation points receiving first choice, with remaining choices allowed in declining vacation point sequence. An employee electing to split his vacation into more than one (1) part must select his second part after all other employees have selected their first choice. Similarly, he must select his third part after all other employees have selected their second choice.
iii)	In the event that two (2) or more employees in a department have the same number of vacation points, vacation period selection among such employees will be allowed in order of the longest respective Company service dates.
b> For purposes of this Article 8.10 only, vacation "prime time" shall be defined as the annual period of July 1 to August 31 inclusive. "Vacation days" shall be defined as the actual earned days of annual vacation, excluding the travel days, holidays, banked holidays, mutual changes and scheduled days off.
c)	By October 10th of each year the Company shall post a list in each department which will indicate the total
20
number of vacation points assigned to each employee.
d) On October 1st of each year, employees in each department shall receive or lose vacation points as follows:
1) One (1) service point shall be added to each employee's accumulated total points,
ii)	Each employee who took twenty-four (24) vacation hours or less during "prime time" in the previous twelve
(12) months shall receive one (1) vacation point bonus.
iii)	An employee shall lose vacation points , based on the
total number of vacation hours taken during prime time in the previous twelve (12) months, in accordance with the following:	Twenty-five (25) to sixty (60) vacation hours
loses one (1) point. Sixty-one (61) to ninety-six (96) vacation hours loses two (2) points. Ninety-seven (97) to one hundred and forty-four (144) vacation hours -loses three (3) points. One hundred and forty-five (145) to one hundred and eighty (180) vacation hours loses four (4) points. Over one hundred and eighty (180) vacation
hours - loses five (5) points.
e)	i) Upon employment, each new employee shall receive the lower of zero (0) points or one (1) point lass than the lowest individual point total in his department as of October 1st preceding his hire date. Thereafter, they
shall receive additional points in accordance with (d) above.
ii)	If an employee transfers from one department to another within the bargaining unit, he shall carry his accumulated vacation point total to his new department.
iii)	If an employee transfers to a department within the
bargaining unit from a position outside of the bargaining unit he shall, immediately upon entry into his new department, receive vacation points as per 8.10	(e)(i)
above. Thereafter, he shall receive or loss vacation point8 in accordance with (d) above.
8.11	For the purpose of soheduling vacations, supervisors' vacations shall not be taken into account.
8.12	Employees entitled to three (3) weeks of vacation may elect to _defer one (1)^ week of vacation. 1 Employees entitlecT~to'fouir-*f4J or more'Ueeks of vacation nay elect to defer two (2) weeks of vacation. Deferred vacation will be taken in the following calendar year outside of the period July and August inclusive.
21
.13
8.14
8.15
a)	A week of vacation is defined as forty (40) scheduled working hours.
b)	A day of vacation is defined as eight (8) scheduled working hours. Vacation will be scheduled in full shifts.
If, at the end of an employee's vacation entitlement, a partial shift of vacation is remaining, the employee will be granted a leave of absence without pay for the remaining hours of said shift to complete his vacation.
Upon completion of one (1) year of continuous service, twenty-four hours of travel time with pay at the employee's base hourly rate will be granted annually to each employee in conjunction with his annual vacation.
22
ARTICLE IX - HOLIDAYS
9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04
a) The following holidays will be granted to all employees covered by this agreement:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Family Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day
b)	Additionally, employees on schedules 5.07 (a), (b), (c), (d)(ii) and (d)(iii) will be granted the following holidays:
August Civic Holiday Boxing Day
c)	A floating holiday announced by the Company in October each year for the following year will be granted to all employees on schedules 5.07 (a), (b), (c) and (d).
a)	Shift #1, Shift #3, Shift #4 and Continuous Shift employees will observe holidays on the day on which they
b)	Shift #2 and Day employees will observe holidays on the day or which they fall; where that day is included i n their work schedule. Where the holiday falls on a Shift #2 or Day enployee's scheduled day off the employee shall observe the holiday on a scheduled day of work. For holidays falling on a Friday or a Saturday that day shall be observed on the preceding scheduled day of work. For holidays falling on a Sunday or Monday that day shall be observed on the following scheduled day of work.
a) For purposes of determining the date of a holiday under Article 9.01, the day proclaimed by Government legislation shall apply.
If a recognized holiday falls on a day an employee is scheduled to work, he will work his shift that day and receive, in addition to his regular salary, pay at applicable overtime rates for all hours worked.
If a recognized holiday falls on a Shift #1, Shift #3, Shift A4 or a continuous shift enployee's scheduled day off, the employee will receive, in addition to his regular salary, one shift's pay calculated at his base hourly rate.
23
>.05	a) Notwithstanding the provisions in Articles 9.02/ 9.03
and 9.04r an employee w i 11 be paid a holiday credit for each of the agreed upon statutory holidays, only provided:
i)	if his schedule is such that the employee works on the holiday, or;
ii)	if his schedule is such that he does not work on the holiday, but the employee works his last scheduled shift or day before the holiday and his first scheduled shift or day after the holiday or;
ill) if his schedule is such that he does not work on the holiday, but the employee works either his last scheduled shift or day before the holiday or his first scheduled shift or day after the holiday, and has an excused absence for the other day mentioned.
b)	An employee will, however, be entitled to holiday pay if absent on the holiday when scheduled to work, if his shift is covered by another employee with a mutual shift change agreement. The provisions of Article 9.06 will apply.
9.06	In the event that a Shift #1, Shift #3, Shift #4 or
continuous shift employee is required to work on a statutory holiday, or if the holiday falls on a scheduled day off, the employee may elect to receive a regularly scheduled work day off, on the following basis t
a)	i) Any seventy-two (72) statutory holiday hours per year may be reserved to be scheduled at other than the period of July and August. The statutory holidays so reserved would be the Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Family Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, New Year's Day and Good Friday. Additionally, employees not on a Compressed Work Week schedule may bank August Civic Holiday and Boxing Day.
A maximum of one hundred and eight (108) statutory holiday hours so reserved may be carried from year to year at an employee's option.
ii) The Company agrees to publish the current number of accumulatecf banked statutory holiday hours, defined in
(i)	above on the bi-weekly pay statement of each employee covered by Article 2.01.
b)	If there is open time available during the period of July and August, after vacation schedules have been posted, employees may schedule some or all reserved statutory holiday credits to fit these open periods, in
24
accordance with Article 9.06 (•).
0)	Employees must elect, in writing, thirty (30) days in advance, to reserve the specified statutory holidays.
d)	Notwithstanding Articles 6;01, 9.03 and 9*04, payment for these reserved holidays or portion thereof, at the time the holiday occurs, will be at one (1) times pay, plus regular salary for those reserved holidays worked, and at regular salary only with no premium for those reserved holidays falling on an enployee's scheduled days off*
•) Employees most give their Supervisor at least three (3) working days written notice or five (5) calendar days notice of their desire to schedule a day of their reserved statutory holiday.
If the request is done in writing, the employee will receive a written reply at least two (2) working days prior to their requested time off.
If the request is done verbally, the employee will receive a verbal reply at least two (2) calendar days prior to the requested time off.
The request shall be granted under the following conditions:
1)	subject to 9.06(a);
ii) operations not being unduly restricted;
ill) the job combinations allowed off at any one time will be the same as defined in 8.09(b) .
£) The provisions of (a), (b),	(d) and (e) above,
inclusive, shall also apply to a Day or Shift #2 employee who is required to work on a holiday, subject to the employee electing in writing, in advance or on the holiday, to reserve the holiday.
g) Subject to 9.06 (e) debanking of statutory holidays shall be on a first coma, first served basis*
25
ARTICLE Z - LEAVE OP ABSHBCE
10.01	Individual employees may, with the Company's ooniant in
writing, obtain a leave of absence withpjiju^ay* The written consent shall state th-e dater “diCwhich the leave of absence begins and ends.
10.02	In the oasa of death in the immediate family of an employee, such employee w i 11 be granted three (3) working days off with no loss of pay. For employees not covered by an overtime agreement an additional two (2) working days will be granted with no loss of pay i f travel out or town it required. For employees covarsd by ovartima agreement* an additional one (1) working day will be granted with no loss of pay if travel out of town is required. If oirouastancee are such ss to make this impractical, additional time off may be granted subject to Company approval. The "immediate family* shall be deemed as any member of the employee's actual household, and the following relatives of the employes or spouse even though not living in the employee's house:
(1)	Parents
(2)	Son or his wife
(3)	Daughter or her husband
(4)	Brother or his wife
(5)	Sister or her husband
(6)	Grandparents
(7)	Grandchildren
1** C3 An employee who receives a subpoena for jury or witness
duty will be granted a leave of absence for that purpose provided the Company is properly notified. The employee will receive an amount of pay from the Company, whloh wheh added to hi8 jury duty or witness pay, will equal his regular salary while on much duty.
10.04	The Company agrees to grant leaves of absence without pay to members of the Union for the business purposes of the Union and to attend Union fuootions. Application for approval of suoh leave shall be made by one or more of the Executive Officers of the Union, who will endeavour to request such leave at least 48 hours prior to the cammencemant of the shift(s) for which the leave is requested.
10.05	In the event that an employee is recruited for fighting forest fires, an amount will be paid by the Company which/ when added to the fire fighting pay received fiom the Government equals the employee's normal salary.
26
ARTICLE XI
PROMOTION, SENIORITY, TRANSFERS, TRAINING AMD PROGRESSION CHARTS
11.01 a) i) permanent progression within any area shall be in accordance with progression c.hart* and notes, Appendix "B". Qualification Is based on the employee's knowledge of the theories, procedures and equipment related to the job in question. The Company undertakes to evaluate the qualifications of employees in a fair and just manner. The Company agrees that all employees will be given every opportunity to qualify for the next higher jobs within the minimum time periods, as set out in the progression charts. Employees shall be provided with special instruction, instructional material and/or any other advice or means for self improvement* If an employee has not qualified for the next higher job because the Company has not given him the opportunity to train within the minimum time period, the Company agrees that within a further ninety (90) day period the employee shall receive the opportunity to train and qualify. Providing the employee qualifies during this ninety (90) day period he shall receive his wage increment retroactive to the date of completion of the minimum time period as outlined in Appendix "B".
•£,1	il) When a permanent vacancy occurs the most senior man
in the next lower classification or phase will be given the job, provided he is qualified for move up or phase progression. In the event that it is found that an employee has not sufficient qualification for move up or phase progression he w i 11 be informed as to the areas in which he is .expected to improve and will be given extra assistance in those areas. If time is such that it would not be practical for reevaluation of said employee before the vacant job must be filled, the next most senior employee will be given the job, subject to the same conditions. It is agreed that the senior employes will be given the same opportunity for all subsequent vacancies in the next higher classification or phase. However, if the senior employee, providing he meets the certification requirements where required as outlined in Appendix "B", has not been given the opportunity to train for the job, the position will be filled on a temporary basis for up to thirty (30) working days, during which time the senior employee will be given the opportunity t o train and qualify.
ill) Pay classification seniority will be the governing factor to determine move vp, however if pay classification seniority is the same, the qualified employee with the most area seniority will be given the jab. If the area seniority is the seme, then the
27
qualified employee with the moat Company seniority will be given the job. Pay classification or area seniority begins on the date an employee is given a permanent assignment in the pay classification; phase or area. If there is no one qualified	in the given pay
classification, phase or area, then persons in the next lower pay classification or phase will become eligible. An employee may, with the approval of the Area Superintendent, decline a permanent move vp. In such case his rate of pay will be fixed at his currently assigned position rate in accordance with Appendix MB". This agreement will remain in effect ion til cancelled by either party with 30 days written notice. The date cf cancellation will	determine	the employees	pay
classification seniority for subsequent progression.
b> Move—ups caused by temporary vacancies as well as training for the next job snail be in accordance with the Progression Charts and Notes for each area.
c)	Temporary shift vacancies will be filled by the next most senior employee on the shift concerned, or as outlined in Appendix HB", provided the employee has sufficient training. If it is determined that a temporary job opening will last in excess of thirty (30) days, it shall be considered as a permanent job opening and shall be filled by the normal procedure as defined in 11.01(a) except as follows:
i)	When filling job vacancies on a temporary basis, resulting from vacations, injury, sickness, leave of absence, training or emergency, the temporary procedure may apply beyond thirty (30) days.
ii)	Specific projects of limited duration, not to exceed six (6) months, provided the Union is notified of such specific project.
d)	When two or mora employees begin employment on the same fay, the order of Company seniority will be established at that time by a draw in the presence of a 11 employees concerned. Badge numbers will be assigned to new hires in the order of the lowest number representing the most seniority. If required, a similar draw shall be held to determine the order of Company seniority for any employees whose order of Company seniority has not been previously determined.
e)	It is the Company's intent that, when the equipment or plant area is in operation, all shift positions will be manned. It is also the intent that when the equipment or plant area is not in operation, but is ready and
28
11.02
11.03
11.04
11.05
11.04
11.07
available for operation, and it is evident that it may w required to operate during a shift, than in the event any employee is absent, move-up will be made to man each position.
f)	Summer student employees will receive move-up, overtime and promotional opportunities only after all employees hired into permanent positions.
Company policy regarding educational assistance is included in the Suncor, Inc. Benefits Package
*) In tho event an employee whose gay classification is above the rank of Trainee transfers of his own volition to another area; nis salary will be adjusted to the greater of the rate of pay for the job to which he transfers or to the "H" rate of pay, An employee who transfers at a rate of gay below "H" rate will maintain his rate of pay. However, on such transfer, he shall be established at the Trainee or equivalent start level in hie new department or area, and his classification and area seniority will begin on the day of his transfer.
b> An employee who transfers into a labourer's position will have hi8 salary reduced to T rate. He will receive wage increases as per Appendix "A".
Mf-ThtrJoh Training
The Company encourages participation in all forms of off-the-job training such as Company sponsored courses, correspondence courses, or stationary engineering studies. These are aids to increase ability but they are not requirements for any job classification in any area, except as specifically provided elsewhere in this Agreement.
Employees shall be probationary for the first four hundredand eighty (480)working hours. After successful completion of his probationary period, the employee's seniority shall be dated fun the day his employment began.
Seniority lists will be posted at least every three (3) months. Distribution will consist of the employer's classification seniority, Area seniority and Company seniority.
a)	Non-bargaining unit employees shall not perform work normally assigned to employees within the bargaining unit to the extent of denying an employee in the bargaining unit the opportunity for a job or promotion. It is not the Ccnpany's intent that non-bargaining unit personnel
29
11.08
11.09
perform work normally assigned to bargaining unit personnel, on an ongoing basis. It is recognized that there will be occasions such as, in emergency situations, for teaching or demonstrations, in experimental and developmental work, critical atart-up and shutdown, or to improve productivity and effectiveness of the plant, that it may be necessary from time to time for non-bargaining unit employees to do work in co-operation with bargaining unit employees.
b)	Employment of contractors for work expected to last in excess of ten (10) days to supplement bargaining unit work will only take place after discussion with and input from the Area Steward(s).
Before the Company seeks candidates from outside the Bargaining Unit, preference shall be given to senior qualified employees who have a minimum of one (1) year Area seniority, in accordance with Article 11.06, in the area he is transferring from, and have applied pursuant to the procedures belbw.
a)	The Company shall post notices of any permanent vacancies on designated job vacancy bulletin boards, and shall send a copy of each posting to the Union Office.
b)	The Company agrees to receive written applications for transfer from employees for eight (8) days from the date of the posting. Employees may file standing applications with Sfindor Inc. Employment Office for a specific job opportunity. Such applications will be valid for a period of three (3) months.
c)	A successful job applicant shall be released to his new job as soon as possible but in any event not later than thirty (30) working day8 after the closing of the job posting.
d)	The Company shall notify each unsuccessful employee of the reasons why he was not selected for the posted job vacancy.
Any employee who accepts a promotion or transfer out of the Bargaining Unit in excess of one thousand and forty (1040) accumulated working hours per contract year shall be notified by the Company of his loss of bargaining unit seniority and may only re-enter the Bargaining Unit at the trainee level. A*y overtime worked will be recorded on the bi-weekly overtime list. During this period he may be reverted to his former position.
30
12.01
ARTICLE XIX - LAYOFF AMD DISCHARGE
a) The Ccnpany agrees to provide the Union with six (6) months notice of a plant closure, partial plant closure or other workforce reduction caused by change8 in working methods or facilities which will involve the lay-off of any person covered by Article 2.01 during the life of this Agreement,
b) Employees displaced as a result of such change will be given the opportunity to transfer to any department in the operation where there is an opening, if they satisfy the basic requirements for the position. If retraining is required to fill the open position, the Company will provide such training where possible, or cooperate with government retraining departments to provide such training in order that the displaced employee nay qualify to continue in the employ of the Ccnpany. Employees who remain in the employ of the Company will have their regular rate of pay maintained until permanently reassigned to their new job. Employees who are permanently reassigned will have their regular salary maintained until they qualify for a higher rate or until subsequent adjustments in regular salary rates qualify the employees for an increase. For this maintenance of rate provision to apply, employees who are permanently reassigned must meet the progression requirements in accordance with this agreement.
a) In the event it is 'not possible to reassign the employee to other useful employment in the operation, then on severance resulting from technological change or
automation, the employee will reoeive severance pay based on the greater of: .--------------------
i)	one (1) month's pay; or
ii)	two (2) weak's pay for each year of service with the Company to a maximum of twenty (20) weeks' pay, provided in either case he has at least one (1) year of service with the Ccnpany.
12.02
a) In the event that it is necessary for the Company to reduce the working force, the lay-off shall be made by the Company in the reverse order of Company seniority within the trade or progression concerned within each Department of the plant, providing employees retained are qualified to do the work remaining. However, in the event of lay-off in a trade or progression common to more than one Department, then the junior of the qualified employees affected will be laid off regardless of the department, with the remaining employees being
31
transferred to fill the resulting vacancies.
b) If an employee who has transferred from one department to smother while employed by the company is to be laid off, he may exercise his Company seniority to displace the employee”wKo~BW less Company seniority and who has the least Company seniority in his last previous department provided he is qualified to fill the position.
e)	The recall of employees will be in the reverse order of layoff^ provided the employee has not been laid off for more than twelve (12) months and further provided the employee (s) recalled are qualified to perform tho work available.
d)	For the purpose of "continuous service”, an employee recalled will be deemed to have continuous service.
e)	An employee who accepts recall to other than the position that he held prior to layoff will retain his position on the recall list until such time as he has had an opportunity to return to the position held prior to layoff, provided the employee has not been on the recall list for more than twelve (12) months.
12.03	For the purposes of layoff the date and time of notification of layoff shall be deemed the commencement of layoff and the data and time of notification of recall shall be deemed the official time of the recall regardless of which shift a recalled employee actually works in accordance with regular work schedules.
12.04	In the event that any classification or position is cancelled for any reason and the employee in that classification is lowered to a lower classification, he will maintain his regular salary.
12.05	Should an employee accept an opportunity to transfer to another position rather than be laid off, the employee will have his regular rate of pay maintained until he qualified for a higher rate or until subsequent adjustments in regular rates of pay qualify the employee for an increase. For this maintenance of rate provision to apply, an employee who is permanently reassigned must meet the progression requirements in accordance with this agreement.
12.06	In preference to being laid off, an employee who has at^ least one (1) year of continuous service with the Company' may request in writing to aaoept the following severance pay and to terminate his employment with the Company. In this case, the employee shall have no recall rights under
32
this Agreement. Severance pay will be provided based 'b. the greater of:
a)	one (1) month's pay; or
b)	two (2) weeks' pay for each year of service with the Company to a maximum of twenty (20) weeks' pay, provided in either case he has at lease one (I) year of service with the Company.
33
ARTICLE ZZII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
13.01	Definition: For the purpose of this Agreement the term "grievance” shall mean any dispute between the Company and the Union, or between the Company and any employee within the jurisdiction of the Union, concerning the interpretation, application, claim of breach or violation of this Agreement.
13.02	a) Ary employee who has a dispute shall first discuss the matter with his immediate Supervisor with a view to prompt settlement thereof. The employee may have hie Union Steward present at such discussion.
b)	i) Step One: If after forty-eight (48) hours the dispute is not resolved, if then becomes a formal grievance if the employee and/or his Union Steward present a written grievance form to his Supervisor, specifying the provision(s) of the Collective Agreement violated and specifying the remedy requested, within seven (7) working days of the date of occurrence of the fact or event which gave rise to the matter in dispute.
ii) The grievance will be heard by the Manager or his appointee, the Manager will arrange an acceptable hearing date within five (5) working days cf the formal submission. At this meeting the Grievor will be accompanied by a Union Steward. The Manager or his appointee shall reply in writing to the Grievor within a further five (5) working days.
a) Step Ttoo: Failing the satisfactory resolution of the grievance within five (5) working days of the date of the written reply in Step One, the grievance may be appealed to the Vice President or his appointee, who will arrange a meeting with a Union Grievance Committee for that purpose, within a further ten (10) working days.
U) i) The meetings referred to in (b) (ii) and (c) above shall be held on the Grievor's day shift.
ii) Where an appointee hears the grievance, such appointee shall not be the person who heard the grievance in the previous step.
e) If the grievance is not resolved within five (5) working day8 of the date of the meeting, it may be submitted to arbitration in accordancewith the following procedures >
i) discipline and discharge grievances will be heard by a single arbitrator;
34
both parties.
13.03	The party desiring arbitration shall notify the other party of intention to arbitrate/ and if no such notice is received within thirty (30) working days of the date of the final answer in Step Two of the grievance procedure, the grievance shall be deemed to be settled.
13e04 a) A grievance of the Union which cannot be made the grievance of an employee or a group of employees may be submitted by the Union to tho Company/ and a grievance of the Company may be submitted in writing within ten (10) working days arter the occurrence of the fact or event which gave rise to the matter in dispute, A meeting of the parties shall be held thereafter within a period of five (5) working days with the Director of Human Resources and Administration, Oil Sands Group or his appointee in attendance. Such meeting and response in writing within ten (10) working days thereof/ shall constitute the first and final step of the grievance procedure in a grievance of this nature.
b> If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved by this procedure it may be submitted to arbitration according to Article 13.03.
13.05	The the limit imposed on the initial filing of a written grievance is not intended to be restrictive where the employee or party grieving could not be aware of the existence of a potential grievance within such limit/ e.g.r a delay caused by pay calculation procedures which extend beyond the allowed time limit, or by promotion, or the event of an amployee's absence through illness, compensable accident/ vacation or authorized leave of •bs •nee.
13.05	a) In the event that the Company does not respond to a grievance within the specified time limits (subject to
13.06	(b)) the grievance tm/ be advanced to the next step in the grievance procedure.
b) In the event that a grievance is not submitted or advanced from one step to another within the time limits speoified, (subject to Article 13.05) or as extended by agreement between the Company and the Union in writing, the grievance shall bo deemed t o be settled.
13.07	a) Prior to the imposition of documented discipline, an employee, if available, will be notified at a meeting
35
3r
/
13.08
13.09
with Management of the reasons for such action, unless he is a danger to himself or others. The employes, if he so desires, may be accompanied by a Union Steward at the meeting.
b) Art/ complaint or grievance by an employee, that he ha8 been terminated without cause, may be submitted directly to Step Two of the grievance procedure, provided such action is taken within ten (10) calendar days of the date of termination. Probationary employees may not grieve their termination.
a) Termination grievances will be scheduled for arbitration at the earliest opportunity.
d) Following completion of a consecutive twelve (12) month period without receiving further disciplinary letters, all letters of discipline will be removed from an employee's file provided that the discipline is not being processed through the grievance procedure. Once removed from the file a letter shall not be referred to in any subsequent action. Further, the Company agrees that all letters of discipline when removed are returned to the employee.
The term "working days" as used in Articles 13.01, 13.02, 13.03 and 13.04 is defined as the scheduled days worked by the individual holding the grievance.
The decision of the Board of Arbitration shall be final .......... "	' '	’	" affected
36
AXSXCU XXV
The Company recognizes the importance of and will promote and encourage safety in the Plant for the protection and
Jeneral welfare of the employees. The Union recognizes ts responsibility and will. I cooperate fully with the Company.
In recognition that safety is a joint: management and employee concern, the following connaittees will be established*
a)	Central Safety Committee; consisting of the Sxecutive Vice-President, Oil Sand8Group, Loss Management Manager, Union President, the Safety Board Chairperson and Union Safety Coordinators, or their desiccates will meet on a regular basis to discus8 overall plant safety, exchange ideas and address concerns to ensure the safety of all employees at Suncor. This meeting w i 11 be held a minimum of once a quarter.
b)	Departmental Safety Committees will be established with representation from employees and Management to promote and discuss safety at the Departmental levels. These commit tees will meat monthly.
0)	The Conpany will recognise the Safety Board Chairperson, two (2) Union Safety Coordinators and fourteen (14) Area Safety Representative!, The Company will raeogaiza a Shift Safety Representative where a sufficient number of employees per shift exists in the Area.
1)	The Area Safety Representatives will receive all accident investigation and near miss reports for hi8 area as issued.
ii) Th« Shift Safety Representative may attend all accident investigation meetings for his shift.
d) No safety committee member shall suffer loss of regular pay by attending regularly scheduled meetings of this committee. Committee Nabors attending regularly scheduled meetings on their own time will he paid the travel allowance and their normal rate of pay, for actual time spsat at the meeting, at overtime rates.
The Conpiwy will provide adequate first aid facilities in the Plant. The Conpany sgreet to provide and maintain lockers, lunch rooms, and reasonable sanitary, washing
37

and shower facilities. Employees using these facilities are expected to refrain from littering and abusing the facilities.
14*04 When required to work in a location remote from other employees, an employee may request of his Supervisor, and his Supervisor may authorize, another employee to aooompany him to ensure his safety.
14.05	a) Twice weekly clothing changes will be allowed all Suncor Inc. employees covered by Article 2.01.
b) Additional coveralls will be supplied as determined by the Area Superintendent.
C) The Company will pay, on the second pay day of October, to all emplgyees covered by Article 2.01 who have completed their probationary period, an annual clothing allowance as outlined in Appendix "D", Letter of Understanding #1*
d) The Company agrees that the present practice of supplying safety equipment will continue in full.
JUtSXCU XV
IKCORPORAIIOH OF OVERTIME AGREEMEHT
15.01 The terms of the overtime agreement. Article 5.07, shall be for such period as provided for in Article XVI of the Collective Agreement or may be terminated by either party after 30 calendar days written notice provided that a majority of employees from an area or progression have expressed a desire to be removed from the compressed work week schedule or the Company has served proper notice of cancellation.
38
ARTICLE XVX
EFFECTIVE DATE, DURATION AMD AMENDMENTS
16.01 a) This Agreement shall brcgme e$£edtive at 12:01 a.su
oh- A-1992 and shall ■continue in force and effect^HV^121ol a.a. on the 1st
day of	1IH tnd thereafter from year to year unless
written notice is given fcy either party to the other, within one hundred and twenty (120) days of the expiration date, of intention to terminate or negotiate amendments for a new Agreement.
b)	Where notice to negotiate amendments for a new Agreement has been given, then this Agreement shall continue in force and effect until the Union and employees are in a position to lawfully strike or the Company is in a position to lawfully lock-out.
c)	Notwithstanding anything in this Article, any portion of this Agreement may be amended by the Company and the Union at any the provided that both Parties agree.
In witness whereof, we the undersigned hereby ttach our
seal 1392 Abbs 199 A.D.
iagrthaeitit/f jthdii Fq
Mctteyray f
39
For McMurray Independent 0 i 1 Workers Local 707 Energy and Chemical Workers Union
Keith Barringtoh
40
tronix 'A"
SALARY GROUPS
| CROUP	HAMM 92-02-01	BUIS 93-02-01	
A-3	29.58	30.17	Unit Leader - Conplatsd 2 years in classification
A-2	29.02	29.60	Unit Leader • Completed 1 year in classification
A-l	28.42	28.99	Chit Laadar - upon promotion
B-l	27.32	27.99	UtilitiM Main Control Room Operator Upgrading Main Control Room Operator Extraction Main Control Roam Operator
B	26.80	27.34	Journeyman Extraction Operator - Ph. 5 Upgrading Operator | -	See Progreaaion Chart Utilities Operator -	See Progression Chart Laboratos7 Peek - Ph. 9 Sanies Storaaan Stosaaaa - 64 aentha Overburden Senior Operator Overburden Operator - Ph. 7 Mina Senior operator Mina Operator/Dyke -	Ph.7 (lat Claes Tickat) Mine Operator - Ph. 7 Vacuum Truck Specialist -	64 month8 TTaok Presa/Tire Repairman /Tire Specialist - 64 mths
41
0	25.69	26.20	Extraction Operator Ph. 4 Upgrading Operator -	See Progression Chart utilities Operator -	See Progression Chart Laboratory Tach. Ph. 8 Storeman - Ph. 5-12 rnths Overburden Operator - Ph. 6 | Mine Operator/Dyke - Ph. 6 (Completed 2nd year apprenticeship) Vacuum Truck Specialist . -	48 months Track Press/Tire Repairman /Tire Specialist - 48 mths
D	24.93	25.43	Lube Specialist - 12 months Extraction Operator - Ph. 3 upgrading Operator -	See Progression Chart Utilities Operator -	See Progression Chart Laboratory Tech Ph. 7 Storeman - Ph. 5 Overburden Operator - Ph. 5 Mine Operator - Ph. 5 Vacuurt Truck Specialist -	12 months Track Press/Tire Repairman /Tire Specialist -	24 mths. Tool Crib Attendant - 24 months
I	24.16	24.64	- .tart ^ Upgrading Operator -	See Progression Chart \ Laboratory Tech - Ph. 6 Steam Bay - 12 months L.V.F. Steambay - 12 mths. VaciMTi Truck Specialist -	start Track Press/Tire Repairman /Tire Specialist -	12 mths. Tool Crib Attendant - 12 months 1
42
r	23.38	23.85	Extraction Operator - Ph. 2 Upgrading Operator -	See Progression Chart utilities operator -	See Progression Chart Progression Chart Laboratory Tech. - Ph. 5 Storeman - Ph. 4 Overburden Operator - Ph. 4 Mine Operator - Ph. 4
9	22.61	23.06	Apprentice ZZI Steam Bay - start Upgrading Operator -	See Progression Chart Utilities Operator -	See Progression Chart Laboratory Tech - Ph. 4 Storeman - Ph, 3 Overburden Operator - Ph. 3 Mine Operator - Ph. 3 Track Press/Tire Repairman . /Tire Specialist - start Tool Crib Attendant - start
B	21.85	22.29	Labourer *24 months Extraction Operator - Ph. 1 Upgrading Operator - See Progression Chart Utilities Operator • See Progression Chart Laboratory Tech • Ph.3 Storeman - Ph.2 Overburden Operator - Ph. 2 Mine Operator - Ph. 2
I	21.26	21.69	Apprentice IZ Labourer ■ 18 months Upgrading Operator - See Progression Chart Laboratory Tech. « Ph. 2
43
J	20.34	20.75	Laboratory - 12 month8 Extraction Trainee - 3 mths Upgrading Trainee ■ See Progression Chart Utilities trainee - See Progression Chart Laboratory Tech - Ph. 1
	19.54	19.93	Apprentice I Labourer - 6 mths
L	17.09	17.43	Labourer - start Extraction Trainee - start Upgrading Trainee -	See Progression Chart Utilities Trainee -	Sea Progression Chart Moratory Trainee - start Storeman - Ph. 1 Overburden Operator - Ph.l Mine Operator - Ph.l
.	11.60 32.16 96.48	11.83 32.81 98.42	Other Allowances Bat Shift Change -.6% of the A-B-D Schedule biweekly at the "B" salary group Power Engineering Certificate « 4th Class Ticket - 1.5% of the A-B-D Schedule bi-weekly ut the "B" salary group - 3rd Class Ticket - 4.5% of the A-B-D Schedule bi-weekly at the "B" salary group
44
SALARY SCHEDULE - MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 92-02-01 (YY-tlM-DD)
SALARY	BASE 5.07 (A,B,D) HOURLY MONTHLY SAL.	5.07 (F)	5.07 (C,G)	AVERAGE	5.07 (F) SHIFT REG.	5.07 (C,G) SHIFT REG.
GROUP	£ATr~"\ 40 HOUR	SHIFT DIFF.	SHIFT DIFF	SHIFT 0/T	MONTHLY SAL. MONTHLY SAL.	
A-3«*V		$5144.81	$168.54	$178.36	$514.48	$5827.82	$5837.65
A-2	"$2$tf2	$5047.41	$168.54	$178.36	$504.74	$5720.68	$5730.51
A-1	$28.42	$4943.05	$168.54	$178.36	$494.31	$5605.89	$5615.72
B-1	$27.32	$4751.73	$168.54	$178.36	$475.17	$5395.44	$5405.27
B	$26.00	$4661.29	$168.54	$178.36	$466.13	$5295.95	$5305.78
C	$25.69	$4468.23	$168.54	$178.36	$446.82	$5083.58	$5093.41
D	$24.93	$4336.04	$168.54	$178.36	$433.60	$4938.18	$4948.01
h	$24.16	$4202.11	$168.54	$178.36	$420.21	$4790.86	$4800.69
(&/**<*	$23.38	$4066.45	$168.54	$178.36	$406.65	$4641.63	$4651.46
o I,-;*	$22.61	$3932.53	$168.54	$178.36	$393.25	$4494.31	$4504.14
H	$21.85	$3800.34	$168.54	$178.36	$380.03	$4348.91	$4358.74
1	$21.26	$3697.72	$168.54	$178.36	$369.77	$4236.03	$4245.86
J	$20.34 .	43537.71	$168.54	$178.36	$353.77	$4060.01	$4069.84
	$19.54/	$3398.56	$168.54	$178.36	$339.86	$3906.96	$3916.78
S:	$17.09	$2972.44	$168.54	$178.36	$297.24	$3438.22	$3448.05
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHIFT -2%,				AFTERNOON SHIFT	-4*, NIGHT SHIFT-7 %		
RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP		•G“ HOURLY RATE		$0.45	$0.90	$1.58	
						!	
						/■ 6s "Z.	
					x * y 	 9 *—	/ o CdQs	
yy - /a -? <s~ ^ y-i"— / a 0 / sr 8^
SALARY SCHEDULE - MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 92-02-01 (YY-MM-DD)
SALARY GROUP	BASE HOURLY RATE	5.07 <A,B,D) MONTHLY SAL. 40 HOUR	5.07 (E) SHIFT DIFF.	5.07 (H) SHIFT DIFF	5.07 (E) AVERAGE SHIFT 0/T	5.07 (E) 5.07 (H) SHIFT REG. SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SAL. MONTHLY SAL.	
A-3	$29.56	$5144.81	$54.79	$31.31	$514.48	$57,14.08	$5176.1 1
A-2	$29.02	$5047.41	$54.79	$31.31	$504.74	$5606.94	$5078.71
A-1	$28.42	$4943.05	$54.79	$31.31	$494.31	$5492.14	$4974.36
B-1	$27.32	$4751.73	$54.79	$31.31	$475.17	$5261.69	$4783.04
B	$26.80	$4661.29	$54.79	$31.31	$466.13	$5182.20	$4692.59
C	$25.69	$4468.23	$54.79	$31.31	$446.82	$4969.84	$4499.53
D	$24.93	$4336.04	$54.79	$31.31	$433.60	$4824.43	$4367.35
E	$24.16	$4202.11	$54.79	$31.31	$420.21	$4677.11	$4233.42
F	$23.38	$4066.45	$54.79	$31.31	$406.65	$4527.88	$4097.76
G	$22.61	$3932.53	$54.79	$31.31	$393.25	$4380.57	$3963.83
H	$21.85	$3800.34	$54.79	$31.31	$380.03	$4235.16	$3831.65
1	$21.26	$3697.72	$54.79	$31.31	$369.77	$4122.28	$3729.03
J	$20.34	$3537.71	$54.79	$31.31	$353.77	$3946.27	$3569.01
K	$19.54	$3398.56	$54.79	$31.31	$339.86	$3793.21	$3429.87
L	$17.09	$2972.44	$54.79	$31.31	$297.24	$3324.47	$3003.75
	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON : DAY SHIFT -2%. AFTERNOON SHIFT - 4 S, NIGHT SHIFT - 7 SB RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP "G“ HOURLY RATE $0.45 $0.90 $1.58	
		
SALARY SCHEDULE - BI-WEEKLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 92-02-01 (YY-MM-DD)
	BASE	5.0? (A,B,D)	5.07 (H)	5.07 (E)	5.07 IF)	5.07 <C,G>	
SALARY	HOURLY	BI-WEEKLY	SHIFT REG	SHIFT REG	SHIFT REG	SHIFT REG.	
GROUP	RATE	40 HOUR	61-WEEKLY	61-WEEKLY	81-WEEKLY	BI-WEEKLY	
A-2	$29.02	$2321.60	$2336.00	$2578.96	$2631.28	$2635.80
A-l	$28.42	$2273.60	$2268.00	$2526.16	$2578.48	$2583.00
B-1	$27.32	$2185.60	$2200.00	$2429.36	$2481.68	$2486.20
B	$26.82	$2144.00	$2158.40	$2383.60	$2435.92	$2440.44
C	$25.69	$2055.20	$2069.60	$2285.92	$2336.24	$2342.76
D	$24.93	$1994.40	$2008.80	$2219.04	$2271.36	$2275.88
E	$24.16	$1932.80	$1947.20	$2151.28	$2203.60	$2208.12
F	$23.38	$1870.40	$1884.80	$2082.64	$2134.96	$2139.48
G	$22.61	$1808.80	$1823.20	$2014.86	$2067.20	$2071.72
H	$21.85	$1748.00	$1762.40	$1948.00	$2000.32	$2004.84
1	$21.26	$1700.80	$1715.20	$1896.08	$1948.40	$1952.92
J	$2fiJ54LL,	$1627.20	$1641.60	$1815.12	$1867.44	$1871.96
K	(3l1?54^	) $1563.20	$1577.60	$1744.72	$1797.04	$1801.56
L	>t7.09	$1367.20	$1381.60	$1529.12 ■	$1581.44	$1585.96
	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON : DAY SHIFT -2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT - 4 *, NIGHT SHIFT - 7 * RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP "G" HOURLY RATE $0.45 $0.90 $1.56 1		
		
SALARY SCHEDULE - MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 93-02-01 (YV-I1H-DD)
SALARY GROUP	BASE HOURLY RATE	5.07 (A,B,D> MONTHLY SAL. 40 HOUR	5.07 (F) SHIFT DIFF.	5.07 (C.G) SHIFT DIFF	AVERAGE SHIFT 0/T	5.07 (F) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SAL.	5.07 (C G1 SHIFT REG, MONTHLY SAL.
A-3	$30.17	$5247.43	$172.02	$182.02	$524.74	$594418	$5954.18
A-2	$29.60	$5148.29	$172.02	$182.02	$514.83	$5635.13	$5845.13
A-1	$28.99	$5042.19	$172.02	$182.02	$504.22	$5718.42	$5728.42
B-1	$27.99	$4868.26	$172.02	$182.02	$486.63	$5527.10	$5537.10
B	$27.34	$4755.21	$172.02	$182.02	$475.52	$5402.74	$5412.74
C	$26.20	$4556.93	$172.02	$182.02	$455.69	$5184.64	$5194.64
D	$25.43	$4423.00	$172.02	$182.02	$442.30	$5037.32	$5047.32
E	$24.64	$4285.60	$172.02	$182.02	$428.56	$4886.18	$4896.18
F	$23.85	$4148.20	$172.02	$182.02	$4(4.82	$4735.03	$4745.03
6	$23.06	$4010.79	$172.02	$182.02	$401.08	$4583.89	$4593.89
H	$22.29	$3876.87	$172.02	$182.02	$387.69	$4436.57	$4446.57
1	$21.69	$3772.51	$172.02	$182.02	$377.25	$4321.78	$4331.78
J	$20.75	$3609.02	$172.02	$182.02	$360.90	$4141.94	$4151.94
K	$19.93	$3466.40	$172.02	$182.02	$346.64	$3985.05	$3995.05
L	$17.43	$3031.58	$172 02	$182.02	$303.16	$3506.75	$3516.75
ISHIfT DIFFERENTIAL BASED OM : DAY SHIFT -2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT - 4 *, NIGHT SHIFT - 7 * RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP "G" HOURLY RATE $0.46 $0.92 $1.61	
	
SALARY SCHEDULE - MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 93-02-01 (YY-fIM-OD)
5.07 (A,B,D) MONTHLY SAL. 1 40 HOUR
5.07 (E)	5.07 [E)	5.07 (H)
5.07(E)	5.07(H) AVERAGE SHIFT REG. SHIFT REG.
SHIFT DIFF. SHIFT DIFF SHIFT 0/T MONTHLY SAL. MONTHLY SAL.
$5247.43
$5148.29
$5042.19
$4868.26
$4755.21
$4556.93
$4423.00
$4285.60
$4148.20
$4010.79
$3876.87
$3772.51
$3609.02
$3466.40
3031.58
$56.01
$56.01
$56.01
$56.01
$56.01
$56.01
$56.01
$56.01
$56.01
$56.01
$56.01
$56.01
$56.01
$56.01
$56.01
$32.00 $32.00 $32 00 $32.00 $32.00 $32.00 $32.00 $32.00 $32.00 $32.00 $32.00 $32.00 $32.00 $32.00 $32.00
$524.74
$514.83
$504.22
$486.83
$475.52
$455.69
$442.30
$428.56
$414.82
$401.08
$387.69
$377.25
$360.90
$346.64
$303.16
$5828.17
$5719.12
$5602.41
$5411.09
$5286.73:
$5068.63
$4921.31
$4770.17
$4619.02
$4467.88
$4320.56
$4205.77
$4025.92
$3869.04
$3390.74
$5279.43
$5180.29
$5074.19
$4900.26
$4787.21
$4588.93
$4455.01
$4317.60
$4180.20
$4042.80
$3908.87
$3804.51
$3641.02
$3498.40
$3063.58
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHIFT -2%. RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP "G“ HOURLY RATE
AFTERNOON SHIFT $0.46
•4*, NIGHT SHIFT-7 J8 $0.92	$1.61

f 3 0
/ a/ a / £ /

SALARY SCHEDULE-BI-WEEKLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 93-02-0) (YV-MM-DD)
SALARY GROUP	BASE HOURLY RATE	5.07 (A.B.D) BI-WEEKLY 40 HOUR	5.07 (H) SHIFT REG BI-WEEKLY	5.07 (E) SHIFT REG BI-WEEKLY	5.07 (F) SHIFT REG 8!-weekly	5.07 (C,G) SHIFT REG. BI-WEEKLY
A-S	$30.17	$2413.60	$2428.32	$2680.72	$273406	$2738.68
A-2	$29.60	$2366.00	$2362.72	$2630.56	$2683.92	$2668.52
A-l	$28.99	$2319.20	$2333.92	$2576.88	$2630.24	$2634.84
B-l	$27.99	$2239.20	$2253.92	$2488.86	$2542.24	$2546.84
B	$27.34	$2)87.20	$2201.92	$2431 68	$2485.04	$2489.64
C	$26.20	$2096.00	$2110 72	$2331.36	 $2384.72		$2389.32
D	$25.43	$2034.40	$2049.12	$2263.60	$2316.96	$2321.56
E	$24.64	$1971.20	$1985.92	$2194.08	$2247.44	$2252.04
F	$23.85	$1908.00	$1922.72	$2124.56	$2177.92	$2182.52
G	$23.06	$184460	$1859.52	$2055.04	$2106.40	$2113.00
H	$22.29	$1783.20	$1797.92	El 987.28	$2040.64	$2045.24
1	$21.69	$1735.20	$1749.92	$1934.48	$1987.84	$1992.44
J	$20.75	$1660.00	$1674.72	$1851.76	$1905.12	$1909.72
K	$19.93	$159440	$1609.12	$1779.60	$1832.96	$1837.56
L	$17.43	$139440	$1409.12	$1559.60	$1612.96	$1617.56
	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON : DAY SHIFT - 2 X. AFTERNOON SHIFT - 4 *, NIGHT SHIFT - 7 % RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP “G” HOURLY RATE $0.46 $0.92 $1.61	
		
8
APPENDIX "B"
MASTER MAINXEKARCB PROGRESSION NOTES
X. New Hires
a)	When filling vacancies in skilled positions, the Company agrees to give first preference to Journeymen with an appropriate tickets
b)	When a non-fully qualified employee is hired, he will be classified either as Apprentice IV, which employee will be additional to the existing complement of apprentices, or in accordance with the Area Progression Notes.
2.	The following table relates the various levels of the apprenticeship program to the levels of the Suncor Inc. Maintenance Progression Charta:
JPOMBMUli A holder of a certificate of proficiency or certificate of qualification in his trade recognized by the Province of Alberta.
APPRENTICE IV:	Completed the third year of a four year
apprenticeship program, or the second year of a three year apprenticeship program.
APPRENTICE -11I» Completed the second year of a four year apprenticeship program, or the first year of a three year apprenticeship program.
APPRENTICE II:	Completed the first year of a four year
apprenticeship program.
APPREHIISE-It An employee upon being indentured into an apprenticeship program shall be classified as an Apprentice I.
3.	While every effort will be made by the Company to ensure that an employee is given the opportunity to complete his annual course work and examination prior to each twelve month point on his progression being reached, it is recognized that scheduling difficulties arising from the necessity of maintaining the efficiency of the Suncor Inc. ; Maintenance Departments may result In the completion of such
course work and examination at a date after the twelve (12) month period(e). In such cases of Company occasioned delays and upon successful completion of his apprenticeship for a given year, including thn passing of the examination, the apprentice who, as a direct consequence is reclassified according to Note 2 above, shall receive a retroactive pay adjustment for all hours worked from the anniversary date upon which he was eligible for reclassification, pending only the successful completion of the apprenticeship
51
examination and preceding course work.
4.	a) While the Company has every desire and intention to continue the apprenticeship program indefinitely, it reserves the right to amend, alter, suspend, or cease the program or any part of it, should conditions so indicate. In such event, however, the Company would still allow all apprentices then enrolled to complete their Journeyman qualifications through the apprenticeship program. This provision does not preclude layoffs under Article XII.
b)	Notwithstanding (a) above, before the Company axercisas ita right to amend, alter, suspend or cease any part of the apprenticeship program, it shall only be done after consultation with the Union.
5.	The Manpower Development Act of Alberta shall apply in the resolution of disputes over job assignments of apprentices, if not otherwise covered by the Agreement.
6.	Consistent with Article 7.01 and within the period specified in Article 6.08, the Company will make every reasonable effort to distribute overtime work equally among qualified employees within each Maintenance Department, or within areas of each Department as specified in that Department' a Progression Notes.
7.	While reserving the right, subject to legal restrictions, to utilize the abilities of Maintenance personnel as required in jobs other than their specialty, the Company recognizee the desirability of maximizing the utilization of an employee's certified skills.
8.	In selecting employees for job-related training, selection shall be based on both seniority and departmental training needs with first consideration being given to senior employees who have not previously received such training.
9.	Whie qualifications and experience required for a permanent Bargaining Unit vacancy sure relatively equal among two or more day, shift or continuous shift employees, the senior of such employees on a different shift schedule will have the first preference to fill the vacancy.
10.	Apprentices while at sahool will receive their normal rate of pay and will reimburse the Company (through the payroll deduction program) , with any Government Training Allowance received, excluding "Living Away" portion of allowance.
11.	All required tools will be supplied by the Company at no cost to Maintenance employee.
52
MAINTENANCE JOB PROGRESSION CHART & NOTES ELECTRONICS DEPARTMENT
APPRENTICE II
APPRENTICE I
1*	a) In Electronics, the Instrument Mechanic, Electrician,
and Radio Technician, Power Electrician, Refrigeration and, if required, Electrical Mechanic, Power System Electrician Apprenticeship Programs shall be made available. Should employees be hired in related other trades which are properly encompassed by the Electronics Progression, every effort will be made to hire only those employees qualified at the Journeyman level.
b)	While preference will be given to the hiring of journeymen, in the Instrument Mechanic trade, a noncertif led tradesman may be hired at the journeyman rate of pay based on his having a minimum of five (5) years experience in the trade. Such employees must subsequently
qualify for an Alberta.trade certificate within six (6) months.
c)	A non-fully qualified employee in the Instrument Mechanic trade may be hired at the Apprentice IV, III or II level,' provided he has completed at least the first year of apprenticeship. Such employee will be additional to the
53
existing complement of apprentices.
d)	For other trades encompassed by the Electronics Progression, an employee may be hired at the Apprentice II or III level when an apprenticeship contract in level II or III is cancelled or f or balancing the Apprenticeship Program upon failure in the II or III level. All apprenticeship positions will be posted through the internal posting system.
2.	Overtime	distribution, in accordance with Master
Maintenance Progression Note 6, shall be within each individual area, namely; Mobile Equipment Maintenance, Mine, Extraction, Utilities, Upgrading, Blectrical Distribution (B.D.) and Central Facilities Shop.
3.	For training purposes, apprentices will be rotated among the working areas where their trade is practiced.
4*	There shall be a minimum of one Apprenticeship opening per
year in each of the Electrician and Instrument Mechanic Trades. Subject to minimum staffing requirements being met, a Journeyman employee will be permitted to indenture in the other trade, with selection being based on seniority and qualifications. A Journeyman employee who is indentured in another Apprenticeship Program, properly encompassed by this Progression, will maintain their Journeyman Classification Seniority. Successful applicants who write off the First Year of the second apprenticeship and complete the program in three (3) years, will be paid the "C* Salary Group for each of the three (3) years. Successful applicants who opt to take the normal four (4) years of the second apprenticeship will be paid the "E" Salary Group for the first year, the "D" Salary Group for each of the second and the third years and the ”C" Salary Group for the fourth year.
5.	Overtime shall be distributed to qualified employees in the trade, job classification and area where the overtime is required in accordance with Article 6.08.
6.	In the Upgrading, Utilities and Extraction Maintenance Departments, in accordance with Article 5.08(b), temporary shift vacancies shall not be filled through the application of temporary shift changes for vacancies of four days or less on a twelve (12) hour Compressed Work Week Continuous Shift Schedule.
7.	Before filling any permanent vacancy within the Electronics department, employees who have submitted a request for reassignment, prior to the vacancy occurring, or who have submitted a written request for a transfer to a different
54
shift schedule and who has the greatest classification seniority may be reassigned to the area or transferred to the shift where the vacancy has occurred.
8.	The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise
apply in full to Electronics.
55
mairtejumck job progmssio*
CHART ft ROnS
PLANT INDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE
1.	In the Plant Industrial Maintenance Department, the Millwright, Carpenter, Welder, Hoisting Equipment Operator, Pipefitter and any other applicable apprenticeship programs may be made available.
2.	It is the recognized and continuing responsibility of every employee in the department, regardless of their particular skills, to become knowledgeable and flexible with all of the work encompassed by the department.
3 4	a) Apprentices may be hired at Level I, II, III or IV.
b)	All Apprenticeship positions will be posted through the Internal Posting System.
a)	An Apprentice, may be rotated among any of the areas of the department to allow maximum exposure to the types of equipment relevant to the level of Apprenticeship, or to allow another apprentice to receive such exposure.
56
d) An Apprentice who withdraws from Apprenticeship will be reclassified to Labourer. The employee's Classification Seniority will commence on the date returned to the Labourer classification.	Hie rate of pay on
reclassification will be set. at the Labourers' rate applicable to the employees' Area Seniority.
4.	Overtime Coverage - Mbe Maintenance Area ONLY.
For the purposes of overtime coverage, the following will apply provided the employee can work his next regular shift and at regular pay. The employees on eoapreased work waak will not chit for less than four (4) hours.
a)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a Chit Form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days caff.
b)	When overtime is required, the following is the basis for selecting employees for assignment to overtime t
i)	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overthe list, in the trade, who have submitted Chits in accordance with (a) above.
ii)	Secondly, to qualified employees lowest on the overthe list, in the trade, who have submitted Chits not in accordance with (a) above.
iii)	Thirdly, if insufficient Chits are received, qualified employees in the trade, lowest on the overtime list, may be assigned to overtime.
c)	An employee, upon returning to work, may request their supervisor to record refused hours for the hours of overtime the employee could have worked had a Chit been submitted.
d)	When call outs are required, the Company will make every reasonable effort to offer overtime in conjunction with the employees1 work schedule.
5.	A Labourer or Tool Crib Attendant will be entitled to apply for other jobs in the department in accordance with Article 11.08. in no event, should a successful applicant's pay be reduced by more than one pay classification.
4.	Employees classified as rigger will receive the journeyman
rate of pay.
57
7
EXTRACTION MAINTENANCE AREA ONLY
Notwithstanding Article 11.07, a portion of maintenance work will be contracted out; however, in the event of a reduction in the work force, Letter of Understanding Number 4 would apply.
8.	The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise
apply in full to the department.
58
gOPSORT
PROGRESS
mobile bopipmeht maihtctamce
JOB PROGRESSION CHART
.BflmWflgrr HMHTEHABCg
___________________X
LABOURER
59
1
MOBILE igOXFMKR MEXEEEHBMCE
PROGRESSIOM BOXES
In Mobile Equipment Maintenance, the Heavy Duty Meohanio, Automotive Mechanic, Welder or any other applicable apprenticeship nay be made available.
2.	The chit system shall apply to each of the following groups
independently, namely, Heavy Duty Shop trades, Support Shop trades, Field trades, Light Vehicle Fleet Shop trades, Heavy Duty Support Progression, Support Shop Support Progression-/ Field Support progression, Light Vehicle Fleet Shop Support progression and Tire/Track Press progression.
3*	An apprentice may be rotated among any of the areas defined
in Mots 2 above, with the exception oi. Tire/Track Press Progression to allow maximum exposure^ to the types of equipment relevant to hie level of apprenticeship, or to allow another apprentice to receive such exposure. Subject to regulations of the Manpower Development Act, an apprentice may only be rotated to the field area in the last year of his apprenticeship if he so requests. An apprentice assigned to one of the above areas on a temporary basis will continue to accumulate overtime based on actual overtime hours worked by that apprentice.
4*	a) Any employee hired into other than a Journeyman or
Apprentice XV classification shall bo classified am Labourer, however, an employee may be hired at the Apprentice II or III level when an apprenticeship contract in level XX or XXX is cancelled or for balancing the Apprenticeship Program upon failure in the II or III level.
b) Employees hired as Labourers will progress in accordance with Article 11.01(a) and Mobile Equipment Maintenance Support Progression or the Tire/Track Press Progression Note8 and Chart.
a)	If a permanent vacancy occurs in one cf the Support Progressions, the senior qualified employee in the next lower olaseif ication in that Progression shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01(a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
i)	If the permanent vacancy occurs in the Lube Specialist olaseif ication, the senior employee in the n>3Xt lower classification will be determined by the oldest classification seniority date in either Steambay or L.V.F. Steam Bay.
60
ii)	It is understood and agreed that employees in the classification of L.V.F. Steam Bay may not receive exposure to train and qualify as Luba Specialist prior to a permanent vacancy arising.	Such employees will be
covered by the provisions of Article 11.01 (a)(ii) if they have provided written notice, prior to the vacancy occurring, indicating their desire to be promoted to Lube Specialist.
d)	Employees will receive sufficient exposure and training to qualify for promotion.
a)	i) When filling a temporary vacancy, the senior trained employee on the shift and in the area concerned in the next lower classification will be moved up and paid accordingly. If such employee is not available, the Company shall utilize the senior employee otherwise considered qualified.
ii)	Prior to being promoted, a labourer will select either the Support or Tire/Track Press Progression. If operating conditions require, the Company has the tight to assign the labourer on each shift to either progression. Until permanently assigned to one of the progressions, labourers may be utilized in either progression.
f)	For training, qualification and move-up purposes, the positions on the Mobile Equipment Maintenance Support and Tire/Track Press Progressions will be designated at all times except in the case of unscheduled overtime. However, employees may be temporarily assigned to other than assigned duties as operating conditions require and for cross training purposes within each progression.
g)	A labourer shall be reclassified to Steam Bay Operator, Tire/Track Press Repairman or L.V.F. Steam Bay at the rate of pay indicated in Appendix "A" twelve (12) months following the receipt of his Labourer 24 month increment.
h)	Employees in the support progressions who have completed twelve (12) months in any of the following pay classifications shall receive a pay increment as followst Lube Specialist - "D" rate. Steam Bay Operator, L.V.F. Steam Bay «"B" rate.
5.	a) As an apprenticeship opening arises, the senior
qualified employee in the Support Progressions desiring apprenticeship In the vacant trade will be indentured at the level determined by the Apprenticeship Branch. Evidence of the time spent by such employee in the maintenance of mobile equipment will be forwarded to the Apprenticeship Branch for time credit evaluation. Such employee will be indentured as soon as practical to his interests following
61
the occurrence of the vacancy. In no event shall his rav of pay be reduced by more than one pay classification.
b) An Apprentice who withdraws fitin an Apprenticeship will be reclassified to Labourer in accordance with the rate of pay for his area service as indicated in Appendix "A” and may progress to Lube Specialist or Tire/Track Press Progression. However, hia classification seniority will commence on the date he returns to the Labourer classification.
6.	For the purposes of overtime coverage the following will
apply provided the employee can work nis next regular shift and at regular pay.
a)	The following sequence will be utilized for filling vaoancies in trades groups as specified in note #2* Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off.
b)	When overtime is required, the following is the basis for selecting employees for overtime:
i)	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list, in the trade who have submitted chits in accordance with (a) above.
ii)	Secondly, to the qualified employees lowest on the overtime list, in the trade who have submitted chits not in accordance with (a) above.
ill) Thirdly, if insufficient chits are received, qualified employees, in the trade lowest on the overtime list may be assigned to overtime.
c)	The following sequence will be utilized for filling vaoanoies in Support and Tire/Track Press Progression groups as specified in note #2»
i> If a chit has been received from an employee currently assigned to the vacant position he will oa assigned the overtime.
ii) If no chit has been received from an employee currently assigned to the vacant position the shift will be moved up, and an employee in the area who has submitted a chit and who is permanently assigned to the next lowest classification will be assigned the overtime.
ill) If no chits have been received from employees currently assigned to positions in the Support Progression
62
7
or Tira/Track Press Progression, move-up will be utilized from the Labourer classification in accordance with 4(e).
d)	Notwithstanding Article 6.08, overtime lists are to be zeroed every three (3) months. .
For temporary*shift vacancies of more than four (4) days in Light Vehicle Fleet the provisions of Article 5.08(b) will not apply for employees on a twelve hour Compressed Work Week continuous shift schedule,
8.	Before filling any permanent vacancy within the M.E.H. Department, employees who have submitted a request for reassignment, prior to the vacancy occurring, or who have submitted a written request for a transfer to a different shift schedule and who has the-greatest area seniority may be reassigned to the area or transferred to the shift where the vacancy has occurred.
9.	The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise apply in full to Mobile Equipment Maintenance.
63
MAINTENANCE JOB PROGRESSION CHART ft NOTES
CENTRAL MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
APPRENTICE II
VACUUM
TRUCK
SPECIALIST
1.	In the Central Maintenance Department, the Pipefitter, Carpenter, Refrigerator Mechanic and Painter Apprenticeship Programs may be made available. Should employees be hired in related other trades which are properly encompassed by the Central Maintenance Department, every effort will be made to hire only those employees qualified at the Journeyman level.
2.	a) As apprenticeship openings arise, the senior qualified employee in the Central Maintenance Department desiring apprenticeship in the vacant trade will be indentured at the level determined by the Apprenticeship Branch. Such employee will be indentured as soon as practical following, the occurrence of the vacancy. In no event shall his rate of pay be reduced by more than one pay classification.
64
b)	Prior to completing twenty-four (24) months as a Labourer an employee may elect an apprenticeship of his choice under the Note 1 above. After so electing, employees shall receive exposure in the trade of their choice. :
Overtime shall be distributed to qualified employees in the trade, job olassifioation and area where the overtime is required in accordance with Article 6.08.
In the Central Maintenance Department, in accordance with Article 5.08 (b), temporary shift vacancies shall not be filled through the application of temporary shift changes for vacancies of four (4) days or less on a twelve (12) hour compressed work week shift schedule.
The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise apply in full to the Central Maintenance Department.
EXTRACTION OPERATOR SALARI AND JOB PROGRESSION CHERT
Extraction Operator Salary and Job Progression from Phase to Phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:
UNIT LEADER	
	
BOARD 01	’BRATOR ,,
UNIT LEADER
BOARD OPERATOR
(Salary Group B-l)
*Designation	Phase	Plant 3 Functions		Plant 4 Functions	Min.Tima	Salary Group
Senior	5	Area		Lead Westfalia	48 nos.	B '
Technician	4	Drums		Pumps	38 moa.	C
Technician	3	F.T.P.H.		Time Only	28 nos.	D
"A"	2	Pumps		Birds	20 mos.	F
Technician	1	Utility		Westfalia	10 mos.	H
					3 mos.	J
					Start	L
		TRAINEE				
	All	time refers to Extraction Department Continuous			Service.	
The designations of Senior Technician, Technician "A" and Technician recognize level of achievement in salary and job progression only.
EXTRACTION PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	a) Within the Extraction Department, the total complement per shift shall be as follows:
Plant 3:	One Unit Leader
Six (6) Extraction Operators Plant 4:	One Unit Leader
Five (5) ExtractionOperators
b)	For training and qualification purposes, and for normal operations the following positions will be designated in each plant:
Plant 3:	Unit Leader, Board, Area, Drums, Final Tailings
Pump House, Pumps, Utilities.
Plant 4:	Unit Leader, Board, Lead Westfalia, Pumps, Birds,
Westfalia.
e)	While the total shift complement will be maintained in accordance with Article 11.01(e), an employee may be temporarily assigned, in accordance with Extraction Note 3, to other than his regular position for training purposes or as operating conditions require.
d) Employees requesting a transfer from one line of progression to another will be given first consideration. Upon such transfer, he shall be established at the Trainee level and advancement in the new progression will be based on qualifications and time requirements for that progression, but his salary group will not be reduced.
2.	If a permanent vacancy occurs, the Senior qualified employee shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01(a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
3.	a) Shift staffing shall recognize seniority and the established sequence of job progression. The Company shall not realign employees without regard to their service, qualifications and experience. Such realignment will be for shift coverage and training purposes only, with an employee normally moving to the next higher job in the Progression for which he is qualified.
b) Prior to attaining Phase 1, trainees will select the line of progression they wish to advance in. If operating conditions require, the Company has the right to assign the junior trainee on each shift to either progression. Until permanently assigned to a Phase 1 function, trainees may be utilized in Phase 1 of either progression.
67
4
An employee when designated to cover an Extraction Operaw continuous shift position shall be deemed qualified in that position. However, in order to qualify for a phase progression an employee must complete the experience requirements.	..
5.	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to provide sufficient opportunity for than to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
6.	Unit Leaders qualified in both progressions may exchange positions, should the Company and the employee agree. Control Room Operators in Extraction may, if the Company agrees, rotate between Plants for training purposes only.
7.	a) The Department will post' an assigned standby schedule for all Extraction Operators on a quarterly basis, or as changes occur.
b)	The Superintendent will post quarterly the minimum number and minimum qualification of persons who must be on standby. The number of persons designated to be on standby shall be reasonable in relation to the anticipated number of absences from a shift for any reason. Employees on standby must be available for contract by phone between the hours of 6s30 to 8:30 and must report for work within one and one-quarter (1*1/4) hours of notice if called.
a)	Employees with compatible qualifications will be permitted to exchange standby assignments provided employees can work their next regular scheduled shift at regular pay. The Shift Supervisor nut be notified of the change.
d)	Notwithstanding this note, a Supervisor may refuse to place an employee on stand-by for safety reasons only.
e)	The standby procedure may only be changed by Area Management in consultation with the Area Steward (a). It is the Company's intent that mutual agreement will be reached on these procedures.
f)	Consistent with Article 11.01(c) temporary shift vacancies will be filled in the following sequence:
i)	Realignment within the shift without overtime resulting.
u> Overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for the group in which the vacancy originally occurs.
iii)	Realignment within the shift with overtime worked by
68
an employee assigned to standby for the next group in which the resulting vacancy occurs.
iv)	Overtime in the vacant function worked by a qualified employee lowest on the overtime, distribution list who has submitted a chit.
v)	Should employees in (iii) and (iv) decline the overtime, then the original standby employee must report for work.
g)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on any of their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two
(2)	working days prior to their scheduled days off.
h)	Employees on standby will have first opportunity for overtime consistent with their standby schedule.
8.	A shift staffing list which indicates currently assigned positions will be posted and updated whenever changes occur. This does not prevent realignment of employees on their normal shifts for training or shift staffing.
9.	Plant 4 employees, upon completing 8 months at Phase 2, shall be reclassified to Phase 3.
10.	Notwithstanding Article 5.04(a) (ii) tho Company will give each 12-hour continuous shift employee the opportunity to have at least one (1) "long change” in every 16 week cyole provided the employee has not changed his shift.
69
0FG8ADXTC OPERATOR SAURY AID JOB PROGRESSION CHART
Upgrading Operator Salary and Job Progression from Phase to Phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:
FIXED PLANT PROGRESSION						COKER PROGRESSION			
UNIT LEADER				UNIT LEADER			UNIT	LEADER	
Board Operator				Board Operator					
	Min.	Plant 647		Plant 5(8	Salary		l&Jl.	Coker	Salary
Phase	Time	Functions		Functions	Group	Phase Tima		Functions	Group
4	48 mos.	Compressors		Plant 8	B	6	48 moa.	Tank Farm	C
3	34 bos.	Time Only		Tima Only	C	5	36 mos.	Time Only	D
2	24 moa.	Plant 7		Time Only	F	a	24 moa.	Any 4 of 4	F
1	12 BOS.	Plant 6		Plant 5	G	3	18 moa.	Any 3 etc 4	G
						2	9 BOB.	Any 2 cf 4	I
	6 BOS.	Time Only			H	1	3 mos.	Any 1 of 4	J
	3 BOS.	Time Only			I		Start	Trainee	L
	Start	Trainee			L				
							Coker Function		
							Fireman, Coker Lead Operator,		
							Coker Operator II,		
							Coker Operator I.		
Trainee start at either Phase 1 or 2.									
UPGRADING PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	a) Within the Upgrading Department, the total complement per shift shall be as follows:
Three (3) Unit Leaders Twelve (12) Upgrading Operators.
b)	For training and qualification purposes, and for normal
operations, the following positions will be designated.
Unit Leader - Plant 5 & 8
Unit Leader - Plant 6 & 7
Unit Leader - Cokers
Plants 5 & 8 Board
Plants 6 & 7 Board
Compressors
Plants 5, 6, 7 and 8
Tank Farm
Coker Lead Operator Coker Operator II Fireman
Coker Operator I
e)	While the total shift cceplement will be maintained in accordance with Article 11.01(e), and employee may be temporarily assigned, in accordance with Upgrading Note 3, to other than his regular position for training purposes or as operating conditions require.
<*> Unit Leaders qualified in each progression me# exchange positions, should the Company and the employees mutually agree.
a) A third class Power Engineering Certificate is mandatory prior to attaining qualification in the Fixed Plant Progression of, Plants 5 & 8 Board.
f)	A fourth class Power Engineering Certificate is mandatory prior to attaining Phase 1 qualification in the Fixed Plant Progression.
g)	Employees in the Fixed Plant Progression will be paid an allowance for Power Engineering Certificates as per Appendix "A".
2.	If a permanent vacancy occurs, the senior qualified employee shall be promoted in aooordanoe with Article 11.01(a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
3.	Shift staffing shall recognize seniority and the established sequence of job progression. The Company shall not realign employees without regard to their service,
71
qualification and experience. Such realignment will be fe>. shift coverage and training purposes only, with an employee normally moving to the next higher job in the Progression for which he is qualified.
4.	An employee when designated to cover a Upgrading Operator
continuous shift position shall be deemed qualified in that position. However, in order to qualify for phase progression an employee must complete the experience requirements.
5*	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to
provide sufficient opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
6.	A shift staffing list which indicates currently assigned positions will be posted and updated whenever changes occur. This does not prevent realignment of enployees an their normal shifts for training or shift staffing.
7.	Prior to attaining Phase 1 in the Fixed Plant Progression, trainees will select the line of progression they wish to advance in. If operating conditions require, the Company has the right to assign the Junior Trainee on each shift to either progression. Until permanently assigned to a Phase 1 function, trainees maybe utilized in Phase 1 of either progression.
8.	a) Enployees in the Fixed Plant Progression, requesting a transfer from one line of progression to another will be given first consideration. Upon such transfer, he shall be established at Phase 1 and advancement in the new progression will be based on qualifications and time requirements for that progression, but his salary group will not be reduced.
b) Enployees in the Coker Progression who have provided ' written notice in advance of a vacancy occurring in the Fixed Plant Progression, will be given first consideration to fill the vacancy. Upon suoh transfer, the employee will be established at the Trainee Level and advancement in the new progression will be based on qualifications and time requirements for that progression; however, the employee's Salary Group will not be reduced.
9.	Enployees hired before July 2, 1980 will not be required to obtain Steam Tiokets and will not suffer any loss of pay or any loss of opportunity for promotion or phase progression. This loss of pay protection does not include payment for Power Engineering Certificates.
72
The Power Engineering Program currently in place to assist employees to obtain their fourth and third class stationary engineers certificates will be continued in full and can be altered by management at any time for the benefit of the employees. This provision does-not apply to employees in the Coker Progression.
Notwithstanding Article 5.04(a) (ii), the Company will give each 12 hour continuous shift employee the opportunity to have at least one (1) "long change" in every 16 week cycle provided the employee has not changed his shift.
Employees in the Coker Progression who are receiving the "C" salary group, in accordance with the and qualification requirement will receive the MBM salary group after having completed sixty-four (64) months service in the Upgrading Department.
Overtime in the Upgrading Progression will be distributed as per Appendix "C".
UTILITIES OPERATOR SALMI JUID JOB PROaRMflJOa CHART
Utilities Operator salary and job progression from phase to phase shai be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability J accordance with the following:
* Designation		Min. Phase Time		Utilities Salary Functions Group	
Senior Technician		4	48 moa.	Plant 35	B
		3	36 moe.	Water Treatment	C
Technician			32 moe.	Time Only	E
•A"		2	24 moe.	Lead Main Plant	F
Technician	c		12 moe.	Main Plant	6
			6 moe.	Time Only	H
			Start	Trainee	L
		All time refers to Utilities Department Continuous Service.			
The designtion of Senior Technician, Technician "A” and Technicia recognize level of achievement in salary and job progression only
UTILITIES PROORBSSXON - MOTES
1.	a) Within the Utilities Department, the total complement per shift shall be as follows:
One Unit Leader
Seven (7) Utilities Operators
b)	For training, progression, and for normal operations, the following positions will be designated on each shift: Unit Leader
Main Control Room Operator Plant 35 Operator Water Treatment Operator Lead Main Plant Operator Main Plant Operator
c)	While the total shift complement will be maintained in accordance with Article 11.01(e), an employee may be temporarily assigned, in accordance with Utilities Note 3, to other than hi8 regular position for training purposes or as operating conditions require.
d)	A Third Class Power Engineering Certificate is mandatory prior to attaining Phase 4 Progression.
e)	A Fourth Class Power Engineering Certificate is mandatory prior to attaining Phase 2 qualification.
f)	Employees will be paid an allowance for Power Engineering Certificates as per Appendix "A".
2.	If a permanent vacancy occurs, the senior qualified employee shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01(a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
3.	Shift staffing shall recognize seniority and the established sequence of job progression. The Company shall not realign employees without regard to their service, qualification and experience. Such realignment will be for shift coverage and training purposes only, with an employee normally moving to the next higher job in the Progression for which he is qualified.
4.	An employee when designated to cover a Utilities Operator continuous shift position shall be deemed qualified in that position. However, in order to qualify for phase progression an employee must complete the experience requirements.
75
5
Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions fcb provide sufficient opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
6.	a) The Department will post an-assigned standby schedule
for all Utilities Operators on a quarterly basis, or as changes occur.
b) The Superintendent will post quarterly the minimum number and minimum qualification of persons who must be on standby. The number of persons designated to be on standby shall be reasonable in relation to the anticipated number of absenoes from a shift for any reason. Employees on standby must be available for contact by phone between the hours of 6?30 to 8 <30 and must report for work within one and one-quarter (1-1/4) hours of notice if called.
e) Employees assigned to stand-by on the posted schedule will be permitted to exchange standby assignments with employees on their shift who have compatible qualifications. The Shift Supsrvisor must be notified of the change.
d)	Notwithstanding this note, a Supervisor may refuse to place an employee on stand-by for safety reasons only.
e)	The standby proosdure may only be changed by Area Management in consultation with the Arsa Steward(s). It is the Company's intent that mutual agreement will be reached on these procedures.
f)	Consistent with Article 11.01	(c) temporary shift
vacancies will be filled in the following sequence i
i)	Realignment within the shift without overtime resulting.
ii)	Overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for the group in which the vacancy originally occurs.
ill) Realignment within the shift with overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for the next group in which the resulting vacancy ocours.
iv)	Overtime in the vacant function worked by a qualified employee lowest on the overtime distribution list who has submitted a chit.
v)	Should employees in (ill) and (iv) decline the overtime, then the original standby employee must report for work.
9), Employees who volunteer for overtime on any of their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two
76
(2) working days prior to their scheduled days off.
h> Employees on standby will have first opportunity for overtime consistent with their standby schedule.
7.	A shift staffing list which indicates currently assigned
positions will be posted and updated whenever changes occur. This does not prevent realignment of employees on their normal shifts for training or shift staffing.
a.	The Power Engineering Program currently in place to assist
employs** to obtain tneir fourth and third class stationary engineers certificates will be continued in full and can be altered by management at any tis» for the benefit of the employees.
9.	Notwithstanding Article 5.04(a)(ii) the Company will give
each 12 hour continuous shift employee the opportunity to have at least one (1) "long change" in every 16 week cycle provided the employee has not changed his shift.
77
IABQSMORT •Memwf'TaM SALARY t i	I MSIOM '
Laboratory Technician salary and job progression from phase to phase shal. be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability L accordance with Note 4 and the following:
				
♦DESIGNATION	PSA8S	QUALIFICATIQSf	MmiUMUM TIME	SALAR. GROUP
Senior
Technician
8
7
6
5
6 of 6 Tine Only 5 of 6 Tine Only 4 of 6 Time Only'
48 months 42 months 36 months 30 months 24 months 18 months
B
C
D
E
P
6
Technician
-3
2
-1
3 of 6 2 of 6
1 of 6 Trainee
12 months	H
8 months	I
4 months	J
Start	L
fWCTIOHS
Environmental Control (Air)
Environmental Control (Water)
Wear Metals/Lube 0 i 1 Analysis Extraction Testing Gas Chromatography	Upgrading Testing
The designations of Senior Technician and Technician "A" recognize levs! of achievement in salary and job progression only.
LABORATORY PROGRESS!OH - HOSES
1*	a) Within the Laboratory there shall be a minimum of three
(3)	Unit Leaders, seven (7) Laboratory Technicians Days, two (2) Laboratory Technicians per shift.
*> For training and qualification purposes, the following functions will be designated:
Unit Leader
Environmental Control (Air)
Environmental Control (Water)
Wear Metals/Lube Oil Analysis Gas Chromatography Extraction Testing Upgrading Testing
c)	While the total complement of shift personnel shall be maintained, a day or shift employee may be temporarily assigned to other than his regular position for training purposes or as work priorities require. Qualified Technicians will be rotated approximately every six (6) months through functions and the qualified shift Laboratory Technicians will be rotated through the functions on days of their shift rotation, provided that the effective efficient operation of the Laboratory is maintained.
d)	Upon qualification of each phase within the Laboratory Progression, the Company will supply the employee with a certificate stating the phase8 and positions for which the employes is qualified.
2.	a) If a permanent Laboratory Technician day vacancy occurs, the senior qualified employee on continuous shift shall be given first opportunity for assignment to days.
b) If a permanent vacancy occurs the senior qualified employee will be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01 (a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
3.	An employee when designated to cover a shift position, senior technician position or Unit Leader position shall be deemed qualified in that position. However, in order to qualify for a salary phase progression an employee must complete the time requirements.
4.	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to provide sufficient opportunity for __ them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
5.	The following guidelines will apply for the coverage of temporary shift vacancies provided the employee can work
79
his next regular shift and at regular pay:
e)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled day8 off will do so on a chit form on their first night or day shift prior to the employee's scheduled days off.
b) When overtime is required, the following is the basis for selecting employees for overtime:
i)	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chit8 in aooordanae with (a).
ii)	Secondly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted ahits not in aooordanae with (a).
iii)	Thirdly, if insufficient chits are received, qualified employees lowest on the overtime distribution list will be assigned to overtime.
C* *	m	. i -	.	«	.	_
which he could have worked had he submitted a chit.
d)	Persons who chit for overtime must be available for contact by phone between 07(30 to 08 s 30 or 18 s 30 to 19 s 30 respective to their chit.
e)	Temporary vacancies between the hours of 8s00 a.m. and 8s00 p.m., shift or day positions, will bo filled at tho discretion of the Laboratory Manager dependent on the priority of the work involved except for Unit Leader position wbioh will be filled at all times in accordance with Article 11*01 (c).
An employee, will be paid the A-l rate of pay for the full shift(s) when assigned to Stack Survey duties.
80
^TtV-jv
B88ICTI CHAM
MATERIALS SMART A JOB
Materials Storeman salary and job progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience,..demonstrated knowledge and
ability in accordance with the following:
	SENIOR STOREMAN |	
PHASE	QUALIFICATIONS	MINIMUM TIME
5	Any 4 of 4	40 Months
4	Any 3 of 4	25 Months
3	Any 2 of 4	15 Months
2	Any 1 of 4	3 Months
1 Materials	TOHCTIWS Familiarization	start
Materials Storage/Orderpicking
Equipment Operation and Knowledge Materials Receiving and Shipping
SALARY
<Mff-
B
D
F
6
H
L
All tine refers to Materials continuous service.
81
MATERIALS JOB PKOOXKSSXOH - ROTES
1.	Within the Materials Department there shall be four (4)
functions for training and qualification purposes. These are:
i)	Materials Familiarization.
ii)	Equipment Operation and Knowledge.
iii)	Materials Receiving and Shipping.
iv)	Materials Storage, Orderpicking.
2*	In the Materials Department there shall be four (4) Senior
Storeman positions. As permanent vacancies arise, the senior employee who possesses working knowledge of Materials Systems and Procedures pertaining to all four functions will be promoted to Senior Storeman in accordance with Article 11.01(a). Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
3.	a) Storeman salary progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the Materials Department Progression Chart.
b) A rotation system shall be established to provide sufficient exposure and training to enable employees to qualify for progression to the next phase within the minimum time period.
4.	Temporary move-up to Senior Storeman shall be in accordance with Article 11.01(c) within each area.
5.	a) i) The chit system shall apply in each of four areas in the Department independently, namely, Main Warehouse, Mobile Equipment Maintenance Warehouse, Main Shipping/Receiving and Delivery/Yards.
ii) If overtime within an area as outlined in Notes 5(a) (i) above cannot be fully covered by those employees currently assigned to that area, then every reasonable effort will be made to offer the balance of the overtime assignment to qualified employees in other areas of the Department in accordance with the chit system.
b) For record purposes, upon hire, an employee shall be assigned the current average overtime hours of all other employees within his classification in the Materials Department.
e) An employee reassigned to another Department area will continue to accumulate overtime based on actual overtime hour8 worked ky that employee.
82
d) For purposes of covering shift vacancies the following will apply!
1) Employees may volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off by doing so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off.
ii)	The employee lowest on the overtime distribution list who has submitted a chit will be assigned the overtime. If insufficient chits are received, qualified employees lowest on the overtime distribution list; firstly in the area affected, and secondly in any area" of the Department, will be assigned the overtime.
iii) For temporary shift vacancies in Materials the provision of Article 5.08(b) will not apply for twelve hour Compressed Work Week Continuous Shift Schedule.
6.	A storeman, upon completing twelve (12) months at the "D" salary group, will receive the "C" salary group.
7.	A Storeman, who is receiving the "C" salary group in accordance with Note 6 above and having completed sixty-four (64) months service in Materials will receive the "Bn salary group.
83
OVERBURDEN DEPARTMENT PROGRESSION CHARS « NOTES
SENIOR OPERATOR
SENIOR
TRAINER/OPERATOR
OPERATOR
OVERBURDEN PROGRESSION ROSES
1.	a) Within the Overburden Progression there shall be six (6)
functions for salary progression qualification purposes as follows:
Operation cf: Loaders, Crawler Tractors, Graders, Haulage Trucks, . Packers, and Water Wagon.
b) Salary progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated Knowledge and ability in accordance with the fallowing:
PHASE	QUALIFICATIONS	MIN. TIME	SALARY GROUP
7	4 of 6	64 mom.	B
6	Time Only	52 nos.	C
5	3 of 6	40 mos.	D
4	Time Only	25 s»a.	F
3	2 of 6	15 soa.	G
2	1 of 6	3 mos.	H
1	Start	—		L
All time service.	refers to Overburden Department continuous		
a4
o) Employees will receive sufficient exposure in the various functions to provide opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum tins periods.
d) In addition to the above, employees will be expected to qualify in and may be assigned to other functions performed within the Department.
2.	Within the Overburden Department there shall be a minimum of one (1) Senior Trainer/Operator and one(l) Senior Operator position per shift. The hydraulic shovel(s) will be operated by Senior Operator(s).
3.	a) Temporary vacancies in the Senior Trainer/Operator and Senior Operator positions shall be filled in accordance with Article 11.01(c).
b)	A permanent vacancy in the Senior Trainer/Operator position will be filled by the senior qualified employee who has demonstrated basic ability to give proper direction and instruction in operating procedures and techniques during temporary move-up assignments.
c)	A permanent vacancy in the Senior Operator position will be filled by the senior qualified operator who has attained 4 of 6 functions. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a promotion.
*> The qualification for promotion to Senior Trainer/Operator and Senior Operator positions shall be a minimum of 4 of 6 functions, when an employee is promoted to either position and has not attained 6 of 6 functions he will be trained in the remaining function upon promotion.
4.	Should regular duties be temporarily unavailable due to inclement weather affecting Overburden operations, work assignments in Overburden Operations will be made on seniority and qualifications in accordance with the following:
a)	Training
b)	Similar work in the Mine department a) Other productive work in Overburden 0) Productive work i n other areas.
5.	a) In accordance with Mote 7 below, the Company will
distribute overtime among qualified employees on the respective shifts.
85
b) For the purpose c£ overtime cancellation in Overburden, the required notice period in Article $.09 shall read as two (2) hours.
The Company agrees to supply and maintain four (4) lunch roans. A 11 lunch rooms will be equipped with power, heat, hand cleaner and paper towels. The cooperation of all users is essential, to ensure the cleanliness of these facilities is maintained.
Overtime in the Overburden Progression will be distributed as per Appendix "C*.
MIHS PROORXSSiaa - MORS
SENIOR OPERATOR
As openings arise, new employees will be hired into either the Buckstwheel, Support or Dyke Progressions.
a) Within the Bucketwheel Progression, there shall be Your functions for salary progression qualification purposes, as followss Conveyor Operation, Bolt Wagon Oiling, Belt Wagon Operation, Bucketwheel Oiling.
b) Salary progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated Knowledge and ability in accordance with the following}
|Phase	Qualifications	Min. Time	Salary Group
7	4 of 4	64 mos.	B
6	Time Only	52 mos.	C
5	3 of 4	40 nos.	D
4	Time Only	25 mos.	P
3	2 of 4	15 mos.	G
2	1 of 4	3 mos.	E
1	Start	—	L
All time refers to Bucketwheel Progression continuous service.			
a) Within the Support and Dyke Progressions, there shall be six functions for salary progression qualification purposes, as follows:
i) SupportOperation of:	Haulage Trucks, Rubber Tired
Dozer, Tracked Dozer, Scraper, Grader or Water Wagdn, Loader or Drills.
ii) Dvke - Pipeline Procedures, 988 Forks Operation, Coke Handling, Cell Building, Dry Dyking, Side Boom Operation.
b) Salary progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:
Phase	Qualifications	Min. Time	Salary Group
7	l of 4	64 nos.	B
. 6	Tine Only	52 nos.	C
5	3 of 4	40 aos.	D
4	Time Only	25 mos.	P
3	2 of 4	15 mos.	G
2	1 of 4	3 mos.	H
1	start		L
All time refers to Mine Department continuous within either the Dyke or Support Progressions combined.			service , not
4.	a) i) Employees in each progression will receive sufficient
exposure in the various functions to provide opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
ii) The Hoisting Equipment Operator in the Mine Support Progression upon hire will receive the "B" salary rats. The Company at it's discretion may require much employees to train and qualify in accordance with note 3(a).
b)	In addition to the above, employees will be expected to qualify in and may be assigned to other functions performed within their Progressions,
c)	If a permanent vacancy occurs the senior qualified employee shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01(a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be oause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
88
5
within each Progression there shall be a minimum number of Senior Operator positions as follows, with these positions being manned in accordance with Article 11.01:
a)	Bucketwheel - seven per shi£t.
b)	Support - one per shift, plus two positions for blasting purposes«
c)	Dyke - two par shift, plus one day position.
6.	a) Sufficient operators will be indentured into a welding
apprenticeship program, to ensure an adequate number of qualified Welders are available in the Dyke progression.
b)	As openings arise the Senior qualified operator desiring apprenticeship in the welding trade will be indentured.
c)	For salary purposes those employees in the Dyke Progression indentured in the welding trade will receive salary increases as follows:
i)	An operator who has completed three of six functions and is recognized as having completed forty (40) months qualifying service and the second year of his welding apprenticeship will be paid the "C" salary rate.
ii)	An operator who has completed four of six functions and ha8 obtained his first class ticket will be paid the "B" salary rate.
iii)	Should an employee be indentured into the Welder Apprenticeship program with less than four of six functions, he will continue to progress to the higher salary groups in accordance with the defined time periods even though he may not meet the qualification requirements. A t such time as he completes the second year of his welding apprenticeship and has satisfied the forty (40) month time requirement he will receive the ”C” rate. At such time as he receives his First Class Welder's ticket and has satisfied the forty (40) month time requirement he will receive the "8* pay rate.
7«	a) When the Company initiates a temporary seasonal movement
from dyke progression to support progression, the employee shall suffer no loss in pay, or ' progressional Opportunities.
b) Heavy equipment operator positions for the drainage/conveyor crew shall be filled by qualified enployees who have at least twelve (12) months continuous service in the Mine Department Support Progression. Other
89
positions for the drainage crew shall be filled from witITTn the Mine Department Bucketwheel Progression.
a) An employee who is employed on the drainage/conveyor crew shall suffer no lose in pay or progressional opportunity.
d)	Blasting, Dragline and Drainage equipment operator positions shall be posted and filled from within the Mine Department Support Progression.
e)	The most senior operator in possession of a blasting certificate and designated to a blasting crew shall receive the A-l rate of pay while engaged in blasting duties.
f)	Employees selected for the Dragline will receive the "B" rate of pay while working on the Dragline unless their normal rate of pay is higher in which event such emplcyee(s) will receive his/their regular rate.
8.	Should regular duties be temporarily unavailable due to inclement weather affecting Mine operations, work assignments in Mining Department progressions will be made on seniority and qualifications in accordance with the following]
a)	Training
b)	Similar work in Overburden
o) Other productive work in their progreeeion
d)	Productive work in other areas.
9.	Those employees assigned to the functions outlined below will receive other allowances as per Appendix "A” for each shift that they make a hot change at one or both ends of a shift. It is understood that the number of employees required to make a hot change i s dependent on the circumstances prevailing in the Mine at any given time.
The positions ere]
Bucketwheel Proqressiont Bucketwheel Operator, Bucketwheel Oiler, Belt Wagon Operator, Belt Wagon Oiler, Conveyor Operator for all conveyors except f 's 6, 7, 6A and 7A.
Support Progression] 824 operator cleaning up around Bucketwheel and Dozer Operator at Bucketwheel (when required).
Dvkei Dozer operators when engaged in cell building.
90
The Company will make every reasonable effort in the distribution of assignments in order that qualified employees will receive equal opportunity insofar as is practical* In this regard Supervisors and Union Stewards will work together.
10* a) Overtime in the Mine Progression will be distributed as per Appendix "C"*
b> Overtime hours for Mine Support will be returned to zero (0) every six (6) months.
91
APPINDXX "C"
OVERTIME COVSR
FOR UPORADXMO OSILITIES, KXTRACTXOM PROORSSSIOWS
CHIT SXSTEMt
To the extent that these employees are committed and remain committed to making this system work, the Company will set: aside the requirements of the standby system.
For the purposes of overtime coverage, the following will apply for the Fixed Plants, namely Upgrading, Utilities, Extraction, Progressions t
Consistent with Article 11.01(e) temporary shift vacancies will be filled in the following sequence:
a)	Realignment within the shift without overtime resulting.
b)	For the purposes of overtime coverage the following will apply provided the employee can work his next regular shift and at regular pay. Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off.
i)	Priority of chits received.
-	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits in accordance with (b) abgve
-	Secondly to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits not in accordance with (b) above
ii)	If insufficient chits are received, qualified employers, lowest on the overtime list, may be assigned to overtime.
ill) In accordance with (b) (i) above overtime will be firstly, in the vacant function worked by an employee qualified in that function; secondly, realignment within the shift with overtime in the resulting vacant function worked by an employee qualified in that function.
«> An employee, upon returning to work, may request his supervisor to mark him refused for the hours of overtime which he could have worked had he submitted a chit.
In the case where the chit system fails to provide minimum staffing requirements, the following will apply:
92
a)	The Department will poet an assigned standby schedule for all Department Operators on a quarterly basis, or as changes occur.
b)	The Superintendent will post quarterly the minimum number and minimum qualification of perrons who must be on standby. The number of persons designated to be on standby shall be reasonable in relation to the anticipated number of absences from a shift for any reason. Employees on standby must be available for contact by phone between the hours of 6:30 to 8:30 and must report for work within one and one-quarter (1-1/4) hours of notice if called.
a) Employees assigned to standby on the posted schedule will be permitted to exchange standby assignments with employees on their shift who have compatible qualifications. The Shift Supervisor must be notified of the change.
d)	Notwithstanding this note, a Supervisor may refuse to place an employee on standby for safety reasons only.
e)	The standby procedure may only be changed by Area Management in consultation with the Area Steward(s). It is the Company's intent that mutual agreement will be reached on these procedures.
*) Consistent with Article 11.01	(o) temporary shift
vacancies will be filled in the following sequence:
i)	Realignment within the shift without overtime resulting.
ii)	Overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for the group in which the vacancy originally occurs.
iii)	Realignment within the shift with overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for the next group in which the resulting vacancy occurs.
iv)	Overtime in the vacant function worked by a qualified employee lowest on the overtime distribution list who has submitted a chit.
V) Should employees in (iii) and (iv) decline the overtime, then the original standby employee must report for work.
g)	Employ ees who volunteer for overtime on any of their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off.
h)	Employees on standby will have first opportunity for overtime consistent with their standby schedule.
93
APPENDIX ”C
OVERTIME COVERAGE
FOR SHE MIES AMD OVERBURDEN PROGRESSIONS
For purposes of overtime coverage the following will apply within each progression:
a)	Employees who volunteer for overt 1st* on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off.
b)	When overtime is required, the following is the basis for selecting employees for overtimet
i)	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits in accordance with (a).
ii)	Secondly , to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits not in accordance with (a).
iii)	Thirdly, if insufficient chits are received, qualified employees lowest on the overtime distribution list may be assigned to overtime.
c)	An employee, upon returning to work, may request hie supervisor to mark him refused for the hours of overtime which he could have worked had he submitted a chit.
d)	The Company will make every reasonable effort to contact employees for overtime between 0630 and 0730 or 1830 to 1930 respective to their chit.
e)	Where standby is required to efficiently operate the Plant, the Area Management will designate the coverage required and will, in consultation with the Area Steward (s) f develop the necessary procedures to provide standby coverage.
*> This procedure may only be changed by the Area Management in consultation with the area Steward(e) • It is the Company's intent that mutual agreement will be reached on these procedures.
94
APPENDIX
UTTER OF UHDERSTAMDIHG #1 Rli CLOTHIEO ALLCTTAMCE - AETICU 14.05(0
Lump sum payments for clothing will be Abased on the need in each area. Both boots and clothing will be rated in variables of 1 - 3 with a combined total indicating amount of money needed to sufficiently cover the cost of clothing.
RASE It Reflects areas where conditions are reasonably constant, (dry and clean) with little or no exposure to seasonal variations, Wear factor8 would also be very low in the88 areas.
RATE 2:	Where conditions are more severe than Rate 1 but less than
in areas indicated by Rate 3.
RATE 3:	Where outside work would be the norm on a year round basis
and there is an exposure to seasonal variations. Those areas have high wear faotors for boots or clothing and also a high replacement and cleaning frequency.
Areas are rated as follows:
CLOTHING
TOTAL
Overburden MEM - Field MEM ~ Shops BWB
Conveyor/Drainage Crew
Support	2
Plant Industrial Maintenance
3
extractions Operations	3
CMD	2
Utilities Operations	2
Upgrading Operations	3
LVF	2
Laboratory	1
Materials	1
Electronics
2	1
3	3
2	1
3	3
Employees permanently receive the greater of
3
3
2
3
3
1
I
1
Clothing Allowance same value as the
assigned to.
will
area
3
6
3
6
assigned wil BVTS or Support.
6
6
4
5
6 3 2 2
paid at the
be
an
employee is
95
scai.B 2	$175.00
3	$200.00
4	$225.00
5	$250.00
6	$275.00
This letter shall f onapart of the Collective Agreement signed this !L day of	. 1992, A.D. in the.City of Fort
McMurray, Alberta.
96
APPEHDIX "D"
LETTER OF UHDER8ZAEDXMO #2
This letter outlines the intentione of the parties with respect to Article 6.08 (a). It is not intended to affect the operation of existing chit systems.
It is understood and accepted that this provision is a "best efforts" overtime opportunity and not an absolute equalization clause, It is not intended that a Supervisor endeavor to equalize overtime on a day-to-day or a week-to-week basis, nor is it intended that he always offer overtime to the employee with the least hours in the pay classification.
Overtime lists sure zero at the beginning cf each calendar year. The list published mid-year is used as check point to determine where the emphasis should be to have the overtime opportunity distribution reasonably equalized by the end of the year.
This letter sh*., ff«rm part of the Collective Agreement signed this day of ♦ 1992, A.D. in the City of Fort McMurray,
For the Union,
For the Company
President-14. I.O.W.
Local 707 B.C.W.U
97
APPENDIX "D"
LETTER Or UMDEII1Z1UDZM #3
CTwacmm m vrmivm
The purpose of this letter is to establish a meaningful framework within which regularly scheduled discussions will occur on productivity and efficiency issues affecting the success of the Company.
The parties agree to meet every six month8 during the life of the Collective Agreement to discuss productivity issues.
This letter shall tjffr P*?t of the Collective Agreement signed this /fa day of rrwA*t t_ . 1992, A.D. in the City of Fort MoMurray, Alberta.
For the Union,	For the Company,
President
M.I.O.W.
Local 707 B.C.W.O
98
APPENDIX ”D"
LETTER OP UNDERSTANDING #4
ARTICLE 11.07 <b>
Employment of contractors for work expected to last in excess of ten (10) days to supplement bargaining unit work will only take place after discussion with and input from the Area Steward(s).
Prior to layoff of journeymen and/or apprentices in a given department, the Company will reduce journeymen and/or apprentices in the same trade who are employed by Contractors in the same department. In a department where contractors are employed for other than trades work, such contractors will be reduced prior to lay off of Bargaining Unit Employees in that department employed in similar work.
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this _/d_ day of f 1992, A.D. in the City of Fort McMurray, Alberta. f
For the Union, For the Company,
President-
M.I.O.ff.
Local 707 E.C.W.U.
99
APPENDIX "D"
LETTER OP UHDER8TAIDXRO *5
fiimr, WM.ro mm tumwiit.	TRAINING
As part of the current wage settlement the Company agrees to remit three (30) per hour for each full time enplqyee's regular hours of work to a Safety Health and Industrial Relations Training Fund of the E.C.W.U. on a quarterly basis.
The Union agree6 that the sole purpose of this fund will be to provide training to its members primarily those from Smmeor Inc. O.S.O. in the areas specified above.
The Union further agrees that the content of the Safety and Health programs will be Consistent with current Safety and Health Programs endorsed ky Suncor 3hc., O.S.G. (i.e. Five Star Program) .
The Union also agrees to furnish the Company on an annual basis, a listing of the courses to be presented to its Suncor members at Local 707, E.C.W.U.
The Union agrees to provide a fund audit as requested.
The Union agrees that the Conpany w i 11 be invited to have input to the type and content of the training supported by this fund.
Leave of Absence will be in accordance with Article 10 of the Collective Agreement.
This memorandum will be included as part of the Collective Agreement and unless cancelled fcy either party within thirty (30) days prior to April 30,	1990, all terms and conditions will
continue to apply,	-
Signed this fC day of	. 1992, A.D. in the City of Port
McMurray, Alberta.
For the Union,	For the Conpany,
President-
M.I.O.W.
Local 707 E.C.W.U
100
APPENDIX "D"
LETTER OF URDERSTAHDIBG #6 DEPARTMENT. IMIOe. COMPART BELATIOHSHIPS
The purpose of this letter is to establish regular scheduled meetings between the Area Job Stewards and Area Management. Those meetings to be scheduled quarterly, will be to discuss any unsolved problems in the area that are appropriate with the intent that both parties continue to improve relationships.
Signed this	day c£	1992f A.D. in the City of Fort
McMurray, Alberta.
For the Union	For the Company
101
APPENDIX "O'
LETTER OP OMDERSTAHDIVO #7
Sj^ASSMSSS
The purpose of this letter is to outline activities the parties undertake to increase employee awareness regarding harassment and to create a workplace free of harassment.
The parties each have Policies/Rules against harassment in the Workplace - neither party will condone acts of harassment. To ensure that employees are fully aware of these policies/rulea, the parties agree to jointly communicate same to all employees. The parties commit to reinforce these policies/rules within their own organization structures through forums such as regularly scheduled meetings - communications/ general, etc.
The parties further agree that it is necessary to maintain awareness of the subject. To this end, the parties will jointly establish an annual day of awareness, including, but not limited to, posters and hand cuts.
Signed this McHurray/ Alberta.
For the Union,
For the Company,
President
M.X.O.W.
Local 707, E.C.W.U.
rGene Bacori	.
Manager, Labour Relations Suneor Inc.
Oil Sands Group

10‘
1992 SHIFT SCHEDULE
12 HOUR C.W.W. SCHEDULES
E-1JE- 2,E-3,E-4.M,H.0,P,MXU> 1	UC“ 1 X~ 1 ,M-4,H-4,0-4,P-4
eh	2	3	4	5	6	1	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	I—161
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	" 20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29		2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	36	31		i	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30		2	3	4	5	6	1
8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	2o	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	n	18	19	20	21	22	1%	U
25	26	27	28	29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
IS	14		15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	i9	30
KUDU		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14		15
18	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	ii	28	29	30	
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	zia
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31		zij
DAYS	E-3	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-4	i-4	E-4	E-4	e-3	IT	IT
DAYS	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2	E-i	t-i		i-i	E-1	E-1	i-i	E-i	E-2	i-i	E-i	E-1
DAYS	N	N	N	P	P	P	p	M	M	M	M	0	0	0	0	N
RIGHTS	M	M	14	0	0	0	0	N	N	N	N	P	P	p	p	M
DAYS	K	K	K	J	J	J	j	L	L	i	L	i	i	i	1	k
RIGHTS	J	L	L	L	L	1	*	1	i	k	k	k	k	J	J	J
DAYS	J-l	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	1-1	i-i	1-1	1-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	j-t	J-1	J-1
RIGHTS	K-1	K-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	1-1	1-1	1-1	i-i	K-1	K-1
DAYS	0-4	M-4	14-4	M-4	M-4	P-4	P-4	P-4	P-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	0-4	0-4	6-4
RIGHTS	P-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	0-4	0-4	0-4-	0-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	P-4	P-4	P-4
103
1992 SHIFT 8CHHNU C.V.V. l-2,J-2,IC-‘2,L-2
JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	25	24	25	26	27	28	29	MAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	2D	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	HAY	2	' 3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	13	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	' 80	31	JUN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	■ 9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	JUL	. 2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AIM	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31	CEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	81	NOV	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31																		
1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	1-2	L-2	1-2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2
1-2	1-2	1-2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2
1992 8MFT SCHEDULE C.V.V.
E-71E-81t-»1l-*(l-5^-«IF-4/-7/-ejH J6-2J6-6ft-9^\-\ ,M-2
JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	MM)	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	03	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	IS	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	IS	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	76	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AUO	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	It	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2	3	4	5	6
7	S	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	NOV	2	3
4	9	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	-9	10	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
3D	31																										
DAYS	M	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7
DAYS	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9
DAYS	M-2	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1				M-2	M-2	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1				M-2
NIBHT8	M-1	M-1					M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1	M-1	M-1					M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1
DAYS	E-5	E-5						E-5	E-5	E-9			H	E-5	E-5	E-5						E-5	E-5	E-5				
DAY8	E-6	E-6	E-6			M	E-6	E-6						E-6	E-6	E-6	iT			w"	M	E-6						E-6
DAYS ID'S	R-l	R-l					R-1	R-l	R-l	R-l			EE	R-1	R-1	R-1					R-l	R-1	R-l	R-1			R-1	R-1
DAYS ID'S	uasasa					r*	R-2	R-2	R*					R-2	R-2	R-2	R-2			r-5"	R-2	R-2	R-2					R-2
DAYS F-6*	81	*1				12	12	8	8				~12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8				12	12
DAYS F-7«	"" 8	8! 12					12	8	8	12				12	. 8	8	12				12	8	8	12				12
DAYS F-S*	12	®l				“5	12	12	8				“5	12	12	8				“a	12	12	8				8	12
DAYS R-A*	~12					8	. 8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8
DAYS W»		8	L3	Li			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	12	8	8			a	8	12	8				8	8
	V	T	r	S	8	M	T	V	T	F	S	S	M	T	V	T	F	S	S	t*	T	V	T	F	S	S	M	T
g
1992 SHIFT SCHEDULE R-4,R-5,R-6.R-7,R-8.R-9
8/12 HOUR COMPRFSSEO WORKWEEK
MjrWTF S S M T W T F 8 8 H T W T F S J HTWT_F S S H -T W T F 8 S HTWT F
1131141151161171				
13				
1 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 |1Q|				
18	EB3H1E3			
29	QDDDQ			
75	11	12	13	14
21	22	23	24	25
N2	3	4	5	6
14	75	16	77	75
R4	R4	R4	R4	R4
	55	55	RS	55
		12		12
R6	55	R6	55	R6
57	57	R?	IF?	57
R8	55	55	55	
12		12		
R9	55	R9	55	55
20	21	22		24
M2	3	4		6
75	14	15		17
25	26	27		29
6	7	8		75
17	18	19		21
28	29	30		.2
9	10	11		13
				
	R4	R4	R4	R4
		12		12
55	RS	R5	55	R5
R6	R6	55	R6	55
57	57	R7	57	
12		12		
R8	R8	R8	R8	55
R9	55	55	55	55
rr			TTH				6	7	8	9	10
EEEDEBEBEE							17	18	19	20	21
LSLEfcLJBJEii							So	31	A	T	T
□BQBD							11	12	13	14	15
IB KB KB KD EE							23	23	24	25	26
EflEIEJEaHl							55	4	T	T	7
ULlUIBEli							14	E KB IB KE1			
KBEDH1E3E3							26	EJEBE3E!]			
							7	□□HIED			
R4	R4	R4	54				R4	R4	R4	R4	R4
12		12									
R5	RS	R5	RS	RS			R5	RS ■	RS	RS	RS
55	55	R6	55	55				55	55	55	55
									12		12
	R7	R7	57	R7			R7	57	57	57	R7
		12		12							
55	R8	R8	R8	R8			R8	55	55	55	R8
R9	55	55	R9	51			R9	55	5?	55	
							11		J2		
27	28	29	30	31
T	75	11	73	13
20	37	22	23	24
J	2	3	4	S
EB EH EE EE EH				
EHEEEEEBED				
U	6	7	a	9
16	17	18	19	20
35	35	15	31	
R4	R4	R4	R4	R4
55	RS	55	55	65
R6	66	R6	R6	
12		12		
R7	6)	57	R7	57
55 -J	55	55	55	68
n	55	55	55	55
		12		12
F3	4	5	6	7
i4	17	18	16	2o
27	28	29	30	M
8	9	10	11	12
3o	21	22	it	34
31	S	2	3	4
12	13	14	15	16
23	24	2S	26	i7
				
R4	R4	R4	R4	R4
RS	R5	R5	RS	
12		12		
R6	R6	R6	R6	R6
67	R?	R7	R7	R7
	R8	R8	R8	R8
		12		12
R9	R9	R9	R9	R9
12 UNDER SHIFT LETTER INDICATES 12 HOUR SHIFT
1993 SHIFT SCHEDULE
12 HOUR C.W.W. SCHEDULES
£-1	2,E-3,E-4,M,M,0,P#l,J#K,U-M-1-K-I.L-l,M-4.M-4JI-4.P-4
IE33	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	p6|
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30l	31	
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	~13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	MAR	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	ii		i	3	4	4	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30		2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	16	11	12	<3	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	i2	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15		16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	zi
28	29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15		16	f?	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
~ 29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
■e^Esa		2	i	4		6	7	4	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
1 **» ”		18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
cma	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14		l|	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	CM	25	26	27	28	29	30		2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	mo	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	|	26	27	28	29	30	31		zij	
MVS	E-3	E-3	E-3	£-4	E-4	£-4	£-4	E-3	£-3	£-3	£-3	E-4	I=T	E-4	E-4	E-3
DAYS	E-2	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2	£-2	E-2	E-2	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-t	E-2	E-2	E-2
MVS	0	N	N	N	N	P	P	P	P	M	M	M	M	0	0	0
NIGHTS	P	M	M	M	M	0	0	0	0	N	N	N	N	P	P	P
MVS	1	K	K	K	K	J	J	J	J	L	L	L	L	1	1	1
NIGHTS	J	J	J	L	L	L	L	1	1	1	1	K	K	K	K	J
MVS	J-1	J-1	J-1	1-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	1-1	1-1	1-1	1-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	J-1
NIGHTS	K-1	K-1	K-l	K-l	J-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	1-1	1-1	1-1	1-1
DAYS	0-4	0-4	0-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	P-4	P-4	P-4	P-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	0-4
NI6HTS	P-4	P-4	P-4	N-4	n-41	k-4	N-4	0-4	0-4	0-4	0-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	M-4	P-4
107
108
1993 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.V.V.
	JAN	2	3	4	9	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	■E	14	19	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	23	26	27	28
	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	9	6	7	8	9	EE	11	12	13	14	13		17	18	19	20	21	22	23	26	29
	26	27	28	MAC	2	3	4	3	;	6	7	- 8	9	ME	11	12	13	14	19	16)	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	9	6	m	8	9	10	11	12		14	19	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
	23	24	23	26	27	28	29	30	MA\	2	3	4	m	6	7	8	9	10		12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
	21	22	m3	24	28	26	1 27	28	29	30	31	JUN	m	3	4	9	6	7		9	10	11	12	13	14	13	16	17
	_18	r'T5	r»	21	"22	23	-24	29	26	27	28	29	E	JUL	2	3	4	9		7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	13
	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	29	26	27	ME	29	30	31	AUB	2		4	9	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
	13	14	18	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	ME	26	27	28	29	30		SEP	2	3	4	5	6	?	8	9
	10	11	12	11	14	19	16	17	IS	19	20	21	ME	23	24	25	26	27		29	30	OCT	2	3	4	9	6	7
	1 1	9	10	11	12	13	14	19	16	17	18	19		it	22	23	24	23		~n		2$	36	31	NOV	2	3	4
	S	6	7	6	9	10	tt	12	13	14	19	16	EL	18	19	20	21	22		24	29	26	27	28	L»	30	pec	2
	_3	A	9	_6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	EE	16	17	18	19	20	\w	22	23	24	29	26	L2Z	28	29	30
	31	\											^|					1 I 1							1			
																												
OATS	T1	E-8	H	w]	EH	E-7	E-7	IT	IT	ET	ET	E-8	E-7	E-7	IT	IT	IT	E-8	E-e	E-8	E-8	E-7	IT	IT	eT	E-7	E-8	E-e
DAYS	33	E-A	E-A	ES	IT	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	iT]	E-9	E-9	E-A
DAYS	SE			■	mT	M-l	f+T	M-l				M-2	M-2	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	mh"				M-2	M-2	M-2
mams	hi			■	-	M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1'	M-1	M-t					SE1EE3GE							M-1	M-l	M-l
DAYS	H				j		E-9	E-9	IT			IT	E-9	E-9	E-9					1	E-5	E-5	E-5			IT	E-3	E-3	E-5
DAYS	S3			333133				.1				E-6	E-6	E-6	IT			eT	Ml	E-6						E-6	E-6	E-6
DAYS 10’S	n				8-1	R-l	R-1	El			EE	R-1	R-1	ft-1					RH]	R-1	IT	R-1			rT	R-1	R-1	R-1
DAYS 10*8	33			R-2	R-2	rT	R-2					R-2	R-2	R-2	rT			rT	Ml	R-2	R-2		'			R-2	R-2	R-2
DAYS F-S*	■			12	12	8	8				Hi	12	8	8				12	12	“i	B				12	12	8	8
DAYSF-7*	■E				12	8	8	J2				12	8	8	~12					8	' 8	12			Z3	_«2	8	8
DAYS F-6*	Hi			~9	12	12	8				“8	12	12	8				~8	i2	12	S				Zl	12!	12	8
DAYS R-A*	IE			8	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	“5			8	i	8	8	8			8	81	12	8
DAYS R-D*	HE			8	8	8	8	~8			a	8	12	8		8			a	U	12	8				__s	13	8	8
	F	8	B	M	T '	V	T	F	8	8	M	T	V	T'	F	s	S	M	T	V	T	F	s	S	M	T	V	T
• WM MDICATE DWOULFO VDM( HOURS
1993 Starr schedule c.v.v.
l-2,J-2,lC-2,L-2
JM	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	. 28	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5	. 6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	MAR	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
HAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	81	JUH	2	3	4	S	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AUB	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31	8EF	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	18	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	ROV	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31																			
K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2
J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	1-2	1-2	J-2
1993 SHIFT SCHEDULE R-4.R-5.R- 6,R-7.R- 8,R-9
6/12 HOUR COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
12 UNDER SHIFT LETTER INDICATES 12 HOUR SHIFT
F	2	3	4	5
15	16	0	18	19
26	27	28	29	30
7	8	9	10	11
19	20	21	22	23
13	1l	S	2	1
ii	12	iJ	14	IS
iz	23	24	25	26
				
	R4	R4	R4	R<l
		12		12
RS	R5	RS	R5	tti
R6	R6	R6	R6	Rfi
	R7	R7	R7	
12		12		
Re	R8	R8	R8	R8
(19	R9	R9	R9	R9
g
1994 SHIFT SCHEDULE 12 HOUR C.W.W. SCHEDULES
E-1 ,E-2#E- 3,E-,J#K,L,I -1 .J-11 #L-1 ,M-4,N-4,0-4,P-4
EH	2	5	4	rr~5	6	7	—5	—5	“T5	FT	12	it	14	15	I—16]
17	18	F?	20	21	22	23	24	25	“25	27	“15	29	30	31	
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	$	10	ti	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	"IS	23	24	25	26	27	28	HM	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	26	2P	3o	3i		2	3	4	t	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	f?	18	49	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30		2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	h	1 2	13	14	15		l_6	r?	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	16	it	St	a	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	42
13	14	15		16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	2?	28	29	30	31
cun	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30		2
3	4	! 5	6	r“?	8	9	10	! FT	12	13	1 14	15	16	17	1 18
19	20	1 21	22	□S	24	25	26	cm	28	29	30	31			i
DAYS	E-4	E-4	E-3	t-3	E-3	rr	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-3	E-3	e-3	E-3	E-4	E-4
DAYS	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2	t-i	E-2	E-2	E-1	t-\	E-1	E-1
DAYS	0	0	0	0	N	N	N	N	P	P	p	p	M	M	M	M
MIGHTS	P	P	P	P	M	M	M	M	0	0	0	6	N	N	N	N
•AYS	1	1	1	1	K	K	K	K	J	J	j	j	L	L	L	L
MIGHTS	K	K	J	J	J	J	L	L	L	L	i	i	1	I	k	k
DAYS	K-1	K-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	i-i	i-i	1-1	1-1	K-1	K-1
NIGHTS	1-1	1-1	1-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	j-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	l-i
DAYS	N-4	N-4	0-4	0-4	0-4	0-4	h-4	M-4	M-4	FP7	P-4	P-4	P-4	P-4	N-4	N-4
NIGHTS	H-4	M-4	P-4	P-4	6-4	P-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	N-4	0-4	0-4	0-4	0-4	M-4	M-4
III

a	X	A	X	M	•	8	i	X	A	X	M	8	8	J	X	A	X	M	8	8	4	1
8	8	8	9	8				8	El	8	8			8	8	Zl	8	8			B	m
8	8	Zt	8	8			5~	8	9	8	8			8	B	8	8	8 '				[M
	8	Z1	Z1	0				8	Zl	Zl	8				8	Zt	Zl	8				m
zT	8	8	Zl				Zl	8	9	Zl				Zl	8	9	Zl				zi~	JM
	8	8	Zl	Zl				8	9	Zl	Zl				9	9	Zl	Zl				lH
	f?rrrr							Z-8	Z-8	Z-8	Z-8			Z-8	Z-8	Z-8	Z-8					Ej
	1-8	i-o	1-8	1-8			1-8	1-8	1-8	1-8					1-8	1-8	1-8	1-8			T5	IEj
r>5	9-3	9-3	9-3						9-3	9-3	9-3			9-3	9-3	9-3	9-3					Hi
	6=3	S-3	9=3	6-3	. . -		H	"51	.6-3						6-3	6-3	6-3	6-3			M	ESI
	1-W	1-W	l-W					Z-W	Z-W	Z-W					1-W	l-W	1-W					an
'EW	ZW	Z-W	Z-W				l-W	l-W	1-W	l-W				Z-W	Z-W	Z-W	Z-W				Tw	cs
y-3	V-3	6-3	6-3	6-3	T5	H	y-3	y-3	V-3	y-3	6-3	M	M	6-3	6-3	y-3	y-3	y-3	75	75	6-3	IE
8-3	8-3	8-3	4-3	4-3	2.-3	4-3	4-3	8-3	8-3	8-3	8-3	4-3	4-3	4-3	4-3	4-3	8-3	0-3	8-3	8-3	8-3	EE
A	A	H	8	8
8	8	8		
Zl	8	8		
Zl	Zl	8		
8	Zl			
8	Zt	Zl		
Z-8	Z-8	Z-8		
1-8	1-8			
9-3	9-3	9-3		
6-3				
Z-W	Z-W			
l-W	l-W			
6-3	6-3	y-3	y-s	y-3
4-3	4-3	4-3	9-3	8-3
tH SAVQ
•v-a un •8-4 uva
•4-4 8AV0 •9-4 SAva
8.01	8A9«
8.01	0AV0 8AVO 8AV0 81HMH U*4 SAM
																											IS
0£	6Z	8Z	AZ	9Z	SZ	9Z	SZ	ZZ	IZ	OZ	61	8!	41	91	Bl	91	81	Zl	II	01	6	8	4	9	6	9	s
z	030	06	6Z	8Z	iZ	9Z	ez	9Z	SZ	ZZ	IZ	OZ	61	81	41	91	61	91	SI	Zl	11	01	6	8 .	4	9	6
9	s	Z	AON	18	08	SZ	8Z	4Z	9Z	BE	►Z	EZ	ZZ	IZ	BZ	61	81	41	91	Bl	91	SI	Zl	II	01	6	8
L	9	6. ..	9 .	8 .	z	400	08	6Z	BZ	AZ	9Z	BZ	9Z	EZ	ZZ	IZ	OZ	61	81	41	91	Bl	91	81	Zl	II	01
6	8	4	9	6	9	8	Z	438	18	OB	6Z	SZ	AZ	9Z	BZ	9Z	SZ	ZZ	IZ	OZ	61	81	41	91	61	91	81
Zl	11	01	6	8	4	9	6	9	S	Z	onv	18	08	6Z	SZ	AZ	9Z	SZ	*Z	sz	ZZ	IZ	OZ	61	81	41	91
SI	91	81	Zl	II	01	6	8	4	9	s	9	S	Z -	mr	OS	6Z	8Z	AZ	9Z	ez	98	SZ	ZZ	IZ	OZ	bl	81
41	91	61	91	SI	Zl	II	01	6	8	4	9	6	9	e	E	not	IS	OS	SZ	8Z	AZ	9Z	BZ	£	sz	ZZ	IZ
OZ	61	81	41	91	61	91	81	Zl	11	01	6	8	4	9	6	9	8	z	ww	OS	6Z	BE	AZ	9Z	sz	K	SZ
EZ	IZ	OZ	61	81	41	91	61	91	Bl	Zl	11	01	6 .	8 '	A	9	6	9	E	z	84V	IS	OS '	6Z	sz	IZ	9Z
sz	9Z	SZ	ZZ	IZ	OZ	61	81	41	91	61	91	81	Zl	II	01	6 '	8'	4	9	6	9	S	E	HVW	az	tz	9Z
sz	9Z	sz	ZZ	IZ	OZ	61	81	41	91	61	91	Bl	Zl	11	01	6	8	4	9	6	9	s	Z	833	18	OS	68
0Z	AZ	9Z	BZ	9Z	SZ	ZZ	IZ	OZ	61	81	41	91	61	91	81	Zl	II	01	S	8	4	9	6	9	e	z	Nvr
WC l-WHrf-rW l -O' 0-4* 4-4* 9-4' 9-3* 8-3* V-3* 8-3* 8-3* 4-3
A A 3 TVM3K38 14IH8 MCI
1994 SHFT SCHEDULE C.V.V.
I-2,J-2<K-2,I.**
JAN	2	3	4	9	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	3	3
29	26	27	28	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	S	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	3	24	3	3	27	3	MAR	2	3	4	3	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
U	IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	3	24	3	3	27	28	29	30	31	APS	2	3	4	S	6
7	8	9	10	It	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	3	21	22	3	24	3	26	27	3	29	30
MAY	2	3	4	9	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
29	26	27	28	29	30	31	JON	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	II	12	13	14	IS	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	3	3	3	3	27	3	29	30	JHL	2	3	4	S	6	■ 7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	19	t6	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	3	3	27	3	29	30	31	AUB	2	3	4
9	6	7	8	9	10	II	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	3	3	27	28
29	30	81	80*	2	3	4	9	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	29	26	27	3	29	SO	OCT	2	3	4	S	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	IS
18	17	18	19	20	21	22	3	2*	3	3	27	3	29	30	31	NOV	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	3	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	2
3	4	9	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	3	3
27	28	29	30	31																			
1-2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2
L-2	L-2	L-2	H2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	>2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2
E
19*4SHIFT SCHEDULE R-4<R-6.R>6,R-7,R-R,R-9
<ki12 NRUR COMPRESSED WDRKWEEK
nrVT f IS H I |_Lf 58 HTWTfSRMTWT F9SMTWT F SS Ml W T F
!£]££] EUEfiEU UEJULLJII1 HJUJliJliltii LJturjuu (HIUDJIEIL1 EBEUEJE3HJ tuuuuu ICJUJIUliJIU KJEiiEilfciJLi]				
14 12	14	14 12	14	
Is	55	Iff	IS	15
W	SS	IS	IS	IS
	1?	1? 12	IT	IT 12
11	15	R8	IS	15
iHHWi				
LUUE1UKJ LtiH'irJQJLU fcilEJfcUHJKJ 11M LIU EE UJlUfcEEflE EJLUOIQB il] iii m ffiiE tutaiijEiBa				
				
14	IS	14	14	14
18	15	15	15	Is
	Iff	IS 12	IS	IS 12
If	IT	IT	IT	IT
A	H	18	13	IS
15 UiJ	8	is Liii	IS	
UUUKEH1 HQQDUU ILi El.1 LLi LU Ui EjEJBJfcEtil UURJEJU KilEIUBDHl EDEJEIDUEI				
■	■I			■
i	R4	14	14 ’ i	1
	18	15 12	15	i
IS	IS	is	IS	i
IT	IT	IT	IT	1
15 12	15	15 12	15	
IS	IS	IS	IS	19
12 UNDER SHIFT LETTER INDICATES 12 MUR SHIFT