COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
HIGHVALE MINE
and
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
LOCAL 1595
Effective: April 1,2001 to March 31,2004

00202 (07)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE ARTICLE I ARTICLE 2
ARTICLE 3 ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE I5 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22
ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26
Page
...............................1
SCOPE..........................2
RECOGNITION AND MANAGEMENT RIGHTS.........................2
UNION SECURITY.................3
CHECKOFF.......................3
SAFETY AND HEALTH..............4
LEAVE OF ABSENCE...............9
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE...........11
SENIORITY.....................15
REDUCTION IN STAFF............16
INCREASE IN STAFF.............17
PROMOTIONS AND VACANCIES......18
DISCIPLINE....................25
GENERAL HOLIDAYS..............27
ANNUAL VACATIONS..............28
HOURS OF WORK.................31
OVERTIME......................33
PAYMENT OF WAGES..............36
DIFFERENTIALS.................36
GROUP INSURANCE...............37
SICK LEAVE ACCUMULATIVE.......41
GENERAL PROVISIONS ...........43
OCCUR ANDRZ
strikes-SinI'D LOCKOUTS
PENSION PLAN..................51
EMPLOYEE & FAMILY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM ... 52 WORKING RESTRICTIONS..........52
TABLE OF CONTENTS (con’t)
ARTICLE 27- CONTRACTING OUT........
ARTICLE 28 - COOLING SYSTEMS.......
ARTICLE 29 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT.
Page ...52 ... 53
...54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #96-01 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #96-02 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #96-03 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #96-09 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #98-01
55
60
63
64
65
LETTER RE: PRINCIPALS THAT GOVERN LIEU DAYS,,, 66 LETTER RE: JOINT TRAINING COMMITTEE..........67
IV
INDEX
Absence ..........................
Accidental Death & Dismemberment
Agreement, duration...............
Apprenticeship....................
Arbitration.......................
Bereavement Pay...................
Boots & Clothing Allowance........
Breaks, lunch and coffee..........
Bulletin Boards...................
Call out..........................
Committee, grievance .............
Committee, labour - management....
Committee, safety - department....
Committee, safety - quarterly.....
Contracting out...................
Dental Plan.......................
Discipline........................
Discrimination....................
Dues..............................
Extended Health Care..............
Fatality..........................
Glasses ..........................
Grievances........................
Group Life Insurance..............
Hours of Work.....................
Job Opportunity, trial period.....
Job Opportunity, training period..
Job Posting.......................
Jury Duty.........................
Lay Offs..........................
Page
....9
...37
...54
...44
...12
...10
....7
31,58
...46
...33
...13
...47
....4
....9
..3,52
...37
...25
...46
....3
...39
....6
...40
...11
...37
...31
...20
...20
...18
...43
...16
V
INDEX
Page
Leave of Absence............................................9
Leave of Absence, bereavement..............................10
Letters of Understanding................................55-65
Long Term Disability.......................................38
Lunch Breaks...........................................31, 58
Medicals.................................................7, 8
Management Rights...........................................2
Notices....................................................46
Overtime...................................................33
Overtime Agreement.........................................35
Payment, meeting attendance................................5,	47
Pension Plan...............................................51
Probation..................................................15
Promotion.................................................18,	23
Recall.....................................................17
Recognition.................................................2
Review, Amendment, Renewal and Termination.................54
Safety......................................................4
Seniority..................................................15
Severance, Notice..........................................17
Shift Change...............................................31
Shift Differential.........................................36
Short Term Disability......................................39
Sick Benefit...............................................41
Statutory Holidays.........................................27
Stewards...................................................43
Students...................................................47
Subcontractors.............................................3,	52
Supervisors, working.......................................52
Suspensions................................................25
Temporary Employees.......................................18,	24
Time off - executive........................................9
VI
INDEX
Tool Replacement....
Training............
Union Activity......
Union Checkoff......
Union Recognition ...
Union Security......
Vacation, entitlement
Vacation, pay.......
Vacation, scheduling
Vision Care.........
Wages...............
Work, schedules.....
Page
...45
20, 67
....9
....3
....2
....3
...28
...29
...29
...40
36, 48 ...31
VII
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into as of the 8th day of November, 2001.
between
LUSCAR LTD., HIGHVALE MINE IN THE PROVINCE OF ALBERTA (hereinafter referred to as the Company)
OF THE FIRST PART and
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1595
(hereinafter referred to as the Union)
OF THE SECOND PART PREAMBLE
The purpose of this Agreement shall be to establish, through negotiations, terms and conditions of employment relating to rates of pay, hours of work and other working conditions of employees, and to provide a method for negotiating settlement of disputes, complaints and grievances of employees, and to establish a harmonious relationship between the Company and the Union.
1
ARTICLE 1 -	SCOPE
1.01
This Agreement shall apply to all employees of Luscar Ltd., at the Highvale Mine, excluding Engineers, Surveyors, Engineering Technicians, Office & Clerical Staff, Assistant Purchasing Agents, Purchasing Agents, Foremen, and those above the rank of Foreman.
ARTICLE 2 -	RECOGNITION AND MANAGEMENT
RIGHTS
2.01
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for the employees covered by this Agreement and hereby consents and agrees to negotiate with the Union, or its designated bargaining representatives, in all matters relating to rates of pay, hours of work, working conditions, disputes, complaints, and grievances of employees. The Company also agrees that the Union may have the assistance of a representative of the United Steelworkers of America in any or all negotiations or discussions between the parties to this Agreement.
2.02
The right to hire, retire, promote, demote, discharge or discipline for just cause, and to maintain discipline and efficiency of employees is the exclusive function of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement. All matters concerning the operation of the Company’s business not specifically dealt with herein shall be reserved to the Company and be its exclusive responsibility.
Without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the Union further recognizes the jurisdiction of the Company over all operations, buildings, machinery, tools, and employees and the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all
2
respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
3.01
Every employee who is now or hereafter becomes a member of the Union shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment, and every new employee whose employment commences hereafter shall, within three days after the commencement of his employment, apply for and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of his employment.
The services of an employee shall be immediately terminated upon the request of the Union, should such employee fail to apply for the Union membership as required above, and/or should he fail to maintain his membership in the Union in any manner and/or should he withdraw from the Union.
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK OFF
4.01
a.	The Company agrees that upon written request by the Union, accompanied by signed authorization cards, all Union initiation fees, monthly dues, assessments or levies, shall be deducted for, and on behalf of all employees who are members of the Union, and such monies shall be made payable, for deposit only, in the Union Bank Account, and forwarded to the SecretaryTreasurer of the Union not later than the 20th day of each month accompanied by a list of names of all employees for, and on behalf of whom such deductions have been made. Monthly statements showing the names of all additions and deletions of staff shall be forwarded to the SecretaryTreasurer of the Union.
In the event of a contractor or subcontractor being employed by the Company at the mine site or in the event of employees employed by contractors or subcontractors be-
3
ing directly or indirectly paid by, or under the control and direction of the Company on the mine site in excess of 24 man hours (excluding time spent on warranty work) in any calendar month, the Company will pay to the Union an amount equivalent to one month’s union dues for each individual on the mine site in excess of 24 hours. A statement will be included with the remittance.
b.	The Company will supply the Union with a statement on each contractor used indicating the Contractor’s name, date started, length of time spent on job, number of people involved and the reason for using the Contractor.
ARTICLE 5 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
5.01
The Company and the Union agree that it is in the interest of all concerned to maintain a safety and health program at the Company’s operations in order to prevent industrial injury and illness.
To this end, it is expected that all persons on the property shall cooperate to promote safe work conditions, practices and enforcement of reasonable rules of conduct and safety on the property.
To assist in meeting our mutual objectives in matters related to health and safety, a Joint Safety and Health Committee will be established and maintained as outlined in Clause 5.03 following.
5.02
The Company shall make provisions for the safety and health of the employees during working hours, and the Union, may from time to time, bring to the attention of the Company any recommended suggestions in this regard. Such recommendations shall be subject to negotiation between the Company and the Union.
4
5.03
a.	The Joint Worksite Safety and Health Committee will be comprised of not more than three members from each party, one of whom must be the Union’s Occupational Health and Safety Chairman and each member will have an alternate to act in his absence. The chairmanship of monthly meetings and tours will alternate between the Company and the Union.
This committee will participate in the monthly safety tours/ inspections and the meeting that follows the conclusion of such tours. Minutes of this meeting will be recorded and forwarded to the Union Occupational Health and Safety Chairman, and will be posted on the appropriate bulletin board(s) within 14 days of the conclusion of the meeting. In addition, the Committee will review, on an on-going basis, the safety programs and procedures (including those related to accident and incident investigation) and, where applicable, propose improvements to the Company and the Union.
The Committee will develop Safety Training in a joint format.
The Company will make available information necessary to enable the joint work site Health and Safety Committee to fulfill its function as it relates to Health and Safety. With the agreement of the Employer, copies may be provided to the Union.
The Union recognizes and commits that where the material provided is designated as sensitive to the Employer, it will be held in the strictest of confidence.
b.	The committee members will not suffer any loss of regular pay as a result of attending Safety and Health meetings.
c.	Each crew shall hold regular monthly safety meetings and, where operations permit, these meetings will be held dur-
5
ing the day shift. Minutes from these meetings will be recorded with a copy retained by the Supervisor and Crew Safety Representative. These meetings will include the reading of the previous meeting’s minutes and updates to outstanding safety items from previous meetings. New suggestions or concerns that have not previously been reviewed with either the Crew Safety Representative or the Foreman will be raised for awareness, or may be investigated further prior to discussion.
d.	In the event of a serious accident or incident, a Company representative along with a Crew Safety Representative will investigate. If a Safety Representative is not available, a Highvale Mine employee who is a Union member of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety committee may be substituted and, failing their availability, a member of the Highvale Union executive may be used. In the event of a fatality the Union Safety Chairman or Local Union President, or a designate will participate with the Company Representative during the investigation. The investigating Union member shall not suffer any loss of regular pay as a result of such an investigation.
5.04
The Company with the assistance of the Joint Worksite Committee will develop a procedure as per the Working Alone Safely
Guide for employees and employers dated September 2000.
5.05
a.	An employee injured in an industrial accident shall be paid for the time lost on the day he was injured; at his regular daily earnings.
b.	Following the submission of documents to establish a WCB claim, should the Company request a meeting with an employee to discuss aspects of the claim other than improper documentation, the employee will be entitled to a Union representative from the Highvale Mine who is either
6
a WCB Committee member or a member of the Local Unit Executive.
5.06
The Company shall pay for medical fees incurred for the purpose of receiving pre-employment medical examinations for all prospective new employees.
5.07
a.	Upon request, Employees shall be provided free of charge approved high voltage gloves only for the purpose of handling live trailing power cables.
b.	No employee shall be allowed to handle live high voltage power cable without high voltage gloves or a hot stick.
5.08
a.	The Company agrees to provide free of charge to employees, articles of clothing which are found, through negotiations, to cause undue expense to the employees and/or which may be necessary for the safety and health of employees. This provision does not mean clothing usually required for the job. The results of such negotiations shall be put in writing.
The Company shall supply the following, free of charge:
Welder’s Masks, Goggles & Gloves, Leather Aprons and Leather Arms, Rubber Boots and Rainsuits.
The Company shall supply gloves at cost to all employees. Gloves will he supplied for specific working conditions at no cost to the employee.
b.	The Company shall pay to each employee the sum of $100.00 each year towards the purchase of work clothing or C.S.A. approved safety boots. In the event an employee
7
provides an appropriate receipt for the purchase of C.S.A. approved safety boots or work clothing before November 30th of any calendar year, no income tax shall be deducted from such payment. Employees who provide receipts will receive their allowance with their regular pay for the next full pay period following the submission of the receipt. Employees who do not provide a receipt on or before November 30th of any year, will receive their allowance, less income tax, with their regular pay for the first full pay period in December.
c.	Employees at their option may carry forward the clothing allowance for a period of three years (to a maximum of $300).
5.09
Employees are required to take good care of any articles loaned to them by the Company, and such articles must be returned to the Company on termination of employment. Employees must acknowledge, in writing, receipt of: welding masks, goggles, gloves, leather aprons and arms; rubber boots; and good quality rain suits. Rainsuits and rubber boots will be replaced on an exchange basis.
5.10
Once every two years, the Company shall make available to all employees at no cost to any employee, a chest x-ray and recognized hearing tests. A copy of the report shall be submitted to the employee. Employees will be paid at their regular rate of pay to a maximum of four hours in the event the tests are carried out on their non-scheduled shift(s).
5.11
The lock-out procedure is an integral component of the safety program on the property, as it relates to the protection of all individuals and equipment on-site.
a
5.12
The Company and the Union agree to comply with the provisions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act in force on January 1, 1995, as they relate to the right to refuse unsafe work.
5.13
Unless the Mine Inspector chooses otherwise the JWSC CoChairman will accompany him on all work site tours and/or inspections.
5.14
The parties will jointly develop a Respectful Worksite Statement, within 90 days from the date of ratification.
5.15
The Company agrees to meet quarterly with the Highvale Unit President, Union Safety Committee Chairman and one other Union representative to review the effectiveness of the Joint Safety Committee, and to review safety concerns or suggestions that, because of their nature, are beyond the scope of authority of participants of the Joint Safety Committee. The General Manager, a Company representative to the Joint Safety Committee, and the Manager, Human Resources and Loss Prevention, will attend these meetings. Minutes of meetings will be jointly reviewed and signed prior to being posted. The minutes will be posted on the designated bulletin boards within five (5) business days.
ARTICLE 6 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
6.01
The Company agrees that leave of absence without pay but with maintenance and accumulation of seniority shall be granted to any designated employee for the conducting of Union business at large.
9
a.	For periods not in excess of two weeks at any one time, 48 hours notice being required, provided however, time spent by the negotiating committee of the Union may, where necessary, exceed such two weeks.
b.	For an indefinite period, two weeks written notice being required.
6.02
The Company agrees that a leave of absence without pay to a maximum of one year shall be granted to employees for good and sufficient reason. Such request for a leave of absence will be in writing and the response will also be in writing and no such leave will affect any employee’s seniority rights when used for the purpose granted. During a leave of absence, including a military leave, of 30 calendar days or less all benefits will be maintained. Seniority will be maintained and accumulated on leaves of 30 calendar days or less, and maintained for that portion of a leave that is in excess of 30 calendar days. If an employee works elsewhere while on leave of absence, he will lose all seniority unless he has written permission from the Company to do so. Such leave shall be granted without discrimination and in cases of leaves for periods in excess of three months, approval must be obtained from the Company and the Union.
6.03
Special leave of absence with pay and with maintenance of seniority rights, shall be granted in cases of death in the employee’s immediate family. Immediate family shall mean an employee’s mother, father, brothers, sisters, spouse, children, mother-in-law and father-in-law. Such leave shall not exceed three days.
Spouse shall include a common-law spouse who has cohabitated in a spousal relationship for a minimum of two years. Children shall include the natural or adopted children of a qualified common-law spouse.
10
In the event of the death of brothersinlaw, sistersinlaw, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, or grandchildren, one day of leave shall be granted with pay and maintenance of seniority to attend the funeral.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01
All grievances, except as provided for elsewhere in this agreement, and those relating to an employee who has acquired seniority and has been discharged, shall be dealt with by following Steps 1, 2, and 3 of this procedure. The grievance of a discharged employee as noted above shall be taken up at Step 3 within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) after the day the employee has been terminated from the Company.
In the event of any grievance arising during the currency of this Agreement, the employee or employees concerned shall within 10 days after the employee knew or ought to have known of the matter giving rise to the grievance, refer the matter in writing signed by the employee or employees, as the case may be, to his crew Shop Steward (failing his availability, another shop steward or executive member may be substituted) who, if the Shop Steward considers the grievance to be a legitimate one, shall promptly take the matter up with the designated Foreman of the employee or employees. The designated Foreman and another Company representative shall discuss the grievance with the Shop Steward and another Union representative (with the employee or employees concerned encouraged to attend), and shall render a decision within three of the grievor’s regularly scheduled working days (holidays excluded), following notification of the grievance.
Step 2
In the event that the designated Foreman does not give a decision satisfactory to the Union, or does not render a decision
11
within the period prescribed above, the Grievance Committee may, within four days, refer the written grievance to the Department Head. The Department Head and other Company representatives shall discuss the grievance with the Grievance Committee and the Shop Steward who signed the grievance (with the employee or employees concerned encouraged to attend), and shall render a decision within four days (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays being excluded) of being notified of the grievance, provided however, that if circumstances warrant, this time prescribed may be extended by mutual agreement.
In the event that the Department Head does not give a decision satisfactory to the Union or does not render a decision within the time prescribed above, the Grievance Committee may within five days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) refer the written grievance to the General Manager of the Company. The General Manager, accompanied by other Company representatives, shall meet with the Grievance Committee and the Shop Steward who signed the grievance (with the employee or employees concerned encouraged to attend) and render his decision within five days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) of referral of the grievance, provided however, the time may be extended by mutual consent.
ARBITRATION
Step 4
In the event that any grievance or matter in dispute has not been settled through the procedure outlined above, either party may, within fourteen days after the General Manager’s decision in Step 3, submit the grievance or matter in dispute to arbitration. A single arbitrator shall be used unless either party requests to submit the issue to an Arbitration Board. If, within 10 days after such referral, the parties are unable to agree upon an Arbitrator, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Alberta will be asked to appoint one. Should the issue be referred to a Board of Arbitration, it shall consist of three members, one named by
12
each of the Company and the Union within 10 days of the referral to arbitration, and the third, the Chairman, to be selected by the two previously nominated members within a further 10 days. In the event of their failure to agree on a Chairman within the time prescribed, they shall notify the Minister of Labour for the Province of Alberta who shall be asked to name a Chairman. After either the Arbitration Board has been formed, or Arbitrator named, by the foregoing procedure, the three members, or single Arbitrator, shall meet and hear the evidence of both parties and render a decision within seven days after the completion of taking evidence.
The decision of either the majority of the Arbitration Board or the sole Arbitrator for the matter at issue shall be final and binding on both parties, but the jurisdiction of either the Arbitration Board or of the single Arbitrator shall be limited to deciding the matter at issue within the existing provisions of the Agreement, and in no event shall either the Arbitration Board or the single Arbitrator have the power to add to, subtract from, alter or amend this Agreement in any respect.
The fees and expenses of the Chairman or single Arbitrator shall be shared equally between the parties. Each party shall pay its own costs and the fees and expenses of witnesses called by it, and where applicable, its representative.
7.02
For the purpose of Clause 1 hereof, the person duly authorized to act for and on behalf of the officials mentioned herein, during their absence, shall similarly be authorized to act in respect to the procedure outlined herein.
7.03
The Union shall promptly notify the Company of the personnel of its Grievance Committee and the Shop Stewards and of any change in personnel, and the Company shall notify the Union of the names of the designated supervisory personnel with whom
13
grievances shall be discussed as set forth in Clause 1 of this Article.
7.04
In the discussions of grievances with representatives of the Company, the Grievance Committee may be accompanied by a representative of the United Steelworkers of America.
7.05
As far as practicable, all grievances shall be dealt with during working hours, and no employee or members of the Grievance Committee or Shop Steward will suffer loss of pay by reason of time spent in discussing grievances with representatives of the Company.
In the event the Company requests the Shop Steward and/or Grievance Committee to meet outside regular working hours to discuss a grievance, he will be paid at his straight time regular rate for the time spent at the meeting. Such meetings shall only be in conjunction with regular working hours.
7.06
The Grievance Committee shall consist of four employees only. The Union Local President may also attend grievance meetings.
7.07
Grievances alleging violations which directly involve more than one employee and which are sufficiently common in nature that they may be conveniently dealt with together, by mutual agreement, may be submitted as one grievance at either step one or two. Policy grievances will be filed at Step Two of the grievance procedure. The time frames for submission and progression, and the representation at the meetings, will be the same as in the steps set out preceding, except that normally not more than two of the employees will attend.
14
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
8.01
The seniority and service of an employee shall be plantwide and shall he based upon continuous service with the Company and shall date from the time he last entered the service of the Company, subject to the following:
a.	An employee shall acquire seniority when he has completed his probationary period of 360 regularly scheduled hours worked, and upon completion of this period, his seniority shall he retroactive to the date of his hiring.
b,	Continuous service of an employee shall be broken and seniority shall terminate by reason of any of the following:
(i)	Dismissal forjust and reasonable cause;
(ii)	Voluntary resignation;
(iii)	Failure to report for work within 10 working days after being notified to report following a layoff, unless the employee can give a reason satisfactory to the Company for his failure to report within the time prescribed;
(iv)	Withdrawal of any amount to which that employee is entitled under the Company Pension Plans;
(v)	A continuous layoff which is equal to onehalf of the employee’s seniority at the time of layoff, hut in no event shall this period exceed two years, i.e. one year of service six months.
NOTE: Should an employee break service or lose seniority for any of the foregoing reasons and be subsequently rehired, such employee shall commence employment as a new employee and shall not have any service or seniority from any previous employment with the Company.
15
c.	Subject to 8(b)(v) an employee’s seniority and service shall accumulate during a period of layoff due to lack of work.
8.02
Employees shall not be laid off, recalled promoted or demoted until the Union has been notified of the names of the persons affected and the reasons for such action and a consultation with the Union has taken place in respect to the matter.
In cases of terminations, the Union will be notified, as soon as possible, but not beyond the next working day, excluding Saturday, Sunday, and holidays.
8.03
The Company agrees to prepare and post not later than January 31st and July 31 st of each year, or at such other time as may be mutually agreed upon, in places easily accessible to all employees, a list of the names of all employees, showing their job classifications, rates of pay and combined seniority standing, the latter being open to protest by employees for 30 days from the date of such submission. Upon proof of error being established by a representative of the Union, correction shall immediately be made. The Company will supply the Union with a copy of seniority lists and corrections thereto, within two working days excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
ARTICLE 9 - REDUCTION IN STAFF
9.01
When reducing staff, senior employees, ability being sufficient to perform the duties required for the position to be filled, shall be retained. A lay-off of staff due to emergency conditions arising in the plant for periods not in excess of two days may be made without reference to seniority. However, every effort shall be made to provide work for employees who would otherwise be laid off.
16
9.02	L'
The Company shall give employees written notice of permanent layoff of at least:
One week after three months;
Two weeks after two years;
Four weeks after four years;
Five weeks after six years;
Six weeks after eight years; or Eight weeks after ten years.
Permanent layoff shall mean a planned layoff of 60 or more calendar days duration.
9.03
In the event of reduction of work in a classification, the employee affected shall displace any other employee in any pay classification provided the employee has more seniority than the employee displaced. The employee so displaced shall displace any other employee in any pay classification provided such employee has more seniority than the employee displaced until the reduction has been completed. The employee displacing must have the ability to perform the work of the classification which such employee is going into and the 240 hour trial period shall not apply when the anticipated time period for layoff is less than six months. Should the employee be unsuccessful in completing the trial period, he will be assigned to the classification of labourer, but will not be restricted in bidding out of the labourer position by Article 11(6).
ARTICLE 10 - INCREASE IN STAFF
10,01
When increasing staff, consideration will be given wherever possible and practical, to local area people being employed. Employees laid off because of reduction in staff shall be returned to service first, ability being sufficient to perform the
17
duties required for the position to be filled, in order of seniority. Notification of rehiring shall be by registered mail addressed to the last address which the employee shall have recorded with the Company, and a copy of such notice shall be given to the “Recording Secretary” of the Union. Until such time as employees recalled to work actually report back to work, the Company shall be entitled to hire employees on a temporary basis.
10.02
Temporary employees hired to replace an employee on a callback shall not be required to join the Union until after the 10 working days referred to in Article 8(l)(b)(iii).
ARTICLE 11 - PROMOTIONS AND VACANCIES
11.01
a.	Notice of new positions, including the day shift labourer position (except students), or vacancies of a promotional nature coming within the scope of this Agreement, shall be issued from the office of the Manager and shall be posted for seven days in places accessible to all employees. A copy of said postings shall be supplied to the Union. Each vacancy will be posted not later than seven days from the date that the Company became aware of the vacancy. Each posting will set forth the title of the job, the rate of pay, the crew designation and shift schedule of the initial vacancy, the closing date of the posting and, for vacancies in Reclamation and Pit Operations, (excepting dragline operators and dragline oilers), the equipment number of the initial vacancy, and for vacancies in the Coal Handling Plant, the initial vacant position.
b.	Postings for new positions shall include a description of the position. For the purposes of job posting, a new position is one which has not existed prior to the time of posting and does not include replacement equipment.
18
c.	Notices of vacancies will be posted on the same day of each week, except for circumstances beyond the Company’s control.
d,	In the event that a posted job has been cancelled for reasons other than an employee withdrawing his bid, the Company will advise the Union, in writing, of the reasons for the cancellation.
11.02
a.	Employees in any classification shall be entitled to submit a bid for such positions or vacancies by means of triplicate written applications, with one copy each for the Company, the Union and the applicant. No application from employees received later than the posted closing date will be considered.
b.	Employees must complete all applicable sections of the Bid Sheet. The Company and the Union shall jointly review the Bid Sheets at the time of bid closure. When an employee is bidding more than one job, one Bid sheet is to be used and the desired jobs will be listed in order of preference. Should the Bid Sheet not include sufficient information to clearly identify an employee’s preference or if essential information is missing, the bid will be excluded.
11.03
a.	New positions or vacancies shall be filled, ability being sufficient to perform the duties required for the position to be filled, on a basis of seniority.
b.	The successful applicant will be confirmed in the position unless he withdraws his application within three days of being posted as the successful applicant. Should an applicant withdraw his bid, the name of the next successful applicant will be posted for three days and confirmed in the position unless he withdraws his bid within three days of the posting of his name. This selection process will
19
continue until an applicant is confirmed in the position. The successful applicant will normally be placed in the position of the promotion or vacancy within 30 days of his confirmation in the position. In the event that the Company is unable to fill the vacancy from amongst the employees, posting of the name of the successful applicant may be delayed for a period of 75 days. The Union shall receive a copy of all such postings.
11.04
a.	Employees accepting promotions to a new position or vacancy may be required to take a trial period of 240 hours working on the job to which they have been promoted. In cases of there being any question as to his ability, and during this period, he shall be given both practical training from an individual with previous relevant experience and the necessary instruction for the position concerned. If such employee feels he does not qualify within such time he may revert to his former position without loss of seniority. If, before the expiry of such 240 hours, it appears that such employee is incapable of qualifying for such position the Company may, after consultation with the Union, require him to revert to his former position, and where the employee has not received 48 work hours of practical training from a qualified individual, there will be no penalty applied. Where the employee has received the minimum training and the Company feels he does not qualify within such time, he may revert to his former position without loss of seniority and shall be subject to a penalty of two years as outlined in Article 11.5, but the penalty outlined in Article 11.6(a) will not apply. Employees on a trial period shall be paid at the rate received prior to accepting promotion to a new position or vacancy. In the event of a dispute between the Company and the Union regarding an employee’s ability to operate equipment, a suitable method, practical test, instrument or device shall be installed on that particular piece of equipment to determine and record the operation, and a tolerance of 10%
20
against the most efficient operator of comparable equipment shall be allowed.
b.	Employees who have previously worked 240 hours within a six month period, or previously held the bid position, at a job classification other than their normal bid classification, shall not be required to take a 240 hour trial period in the samejob classification. It is the employee’s responsibility to verify the periods of time(s) previously worked in the classification in question.
c.	An employee removed from a temporary bid prior to completing the 240 hour trial period may, at his request, have hours worked in the position on the temporary bid deducted from a future trial period, provided the return to the position occurs within six weeks of his removal.
11.05
Employees who do not successfully complete the trial period will revert to their former position. Such employees will not be eligible to rebid for that position for a period of two years, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the Company and the Union.
11.06
a.	Unless otherwise agreed between the Company and the Union, employees may not bid for a period of four months after being posted as the successful applicant.
b.	Employees who successfully hold a temporary bid position will not be restricted from bidding on a permanent bid position within the same classification.
c.	Certified Tradesmen, who have been apprenticed toward their chosen trade, sponsored by the Company, may not bid out of their trade for a minimum of the same additional amount of time that the Tradesman has spent, sponsored by the Company, in the Trades Apprenticeship Program.
21
d,	Notwithstanding either Article 11.05 or 11.06(a) above, when an employee has been posted as the successful applicant and has not been transferred to his new position within the time periods outlined in Article 11.03(b), he may withdraw from the position without penalty provided the withdrawal is submitted in writing to the Company on the employee’s first scheduled shift following the expiration of the transfer date. Employees who have a planned absence covering this period must submit their withdrawal on their last shift worked prior to the commencement of the planned absence, and employees with an unplanned absence must submit their withdrawal on the earlier of their first shift worked or five days past the expiration of the transfer period. In the latter situation, the withdrawal may be done verbally. In either event, the Company may initiate a legitimate transfer either prior to the expiration of the transfer period or the receipt of a withdrawal.
11.07
a.	An employee required temporarily to fill another position paying a higher rate of pay shall receive the rate for such position for the time worked in the higher paying position, but if required temporarily to fill a position paying a lower rate, shall continue to receive the rate payable for his regular position.
b.	In the event an employee has to be transferred from his bid position, the Company will consult with the employee prior to such transfer taking place.
11.08
The Company agrees to notify the Union and post in places accessible to all employees all positions outside the jurisdiction of this Agreement as such positions are created or become vacant and employees shall be given full opportunity to make the proper application for such positions.
22
11.09
The provisions of this Article 11 will apply to the filling of new classifications. Any new permanent classifications coming within the scope of this Agreement will be the subject of negotiations between the Company and the Union Executive. Failure of the parties to agree on any aspect of new or changed classifications will result in the matter being referred to the Grievance Procedure at Step 3.
11.10
a.	Employees who are promoted to permanent supervisory positions exempt from coverage under this Agreement, who continue to pay union dues, will accumulate seniority for the first 90 days after they are promoted, and shall retain their seniority for the next succeeding 90 days from the date of their promotion, but shall lose all seniority 180 days from the date of such promotion.
b.	In the event such employee(s) returns to the bargaining unit within the time prescribed, he shall be entitled to use his seniority as stated above to hid on any job classification available, but will be ineligible to act as a permanent supervisor, or non-permanent relief foreman, or as a lead hand for a period of two years from the date the employee returned to the bargaining unit.
c.	Employees who are non-permanent relief foreman in excess of 3 60 hours in any calendar year shall not accumulate seniority.
d.	A Steward for the area will be notified if an employee is acting as a relief foreman, or if an employee who is not normally a lead hand is designated as such.
11.11
In the circumstances where an employee is absent on sick leave or Worker’s Compensation, the Company agrees to hold open the
23
employee’s bid position for a period of 12 months, and in the interim may bid that position on a temporary basis. Other vacancies arising out of the initial vacancy may also be bid on a temporary basis. In such situations the 240 hour trial period shall apply with the exceptions of Shovel Operator, Dragline Operator, Coal Handling Plant Operator, Front-End Loader Operator and Drill Operator. The absent employee shall continue to accumulate seniority for a 36-month period. Employees filling temporary positions shall be confirmed in the positions after 12 months. In the event the absent employee returns within 12 months fit for full duties, affected employees holding the temporary bids shall be returned to their former positions. After 12 months the returning employee will revert to a labourer classification.
11.12
Should there be no applicants for a posted position, employees who have not completed the probationary period specified in Article 8 will be asked, in order of their hire date, if they would accept the posted position, provided the posted position is a higher paying position. Employees who have had either documented performance problems, or a sub-standard evaluation, will be excluded from the process. If the 240-hour trial period is applicable, the employee’s probationary period will be the later of 3 60 hours from date of hire or the end of the trial period.
11.13
In addition to the requirements of Article 11,4, employees bidding an operators position on walking type draglines must have four months experience as an oiler or an operator on a walking or crawler type shovel or dragline.
The requirements would be the same for employees bidding on the position of Coal Handling Plant Operator; they too would require four months oiling or operating within the Coal Handling Plant area.
During this period, oilers of both classifications, will be given the opportunity to become familiar with all phases of the
24
specific classifications operation and general maintenance, including spending some time actually operating as an operator
trainee.to
11.14
All employees who bid to a D11 size Dozer will be required to take the trial period as outlined in Article 11 (4)(a).
11.15
Employees who are successful on bidding on a dragline oiler vacancy, who either claim or can verify previous experience as an operator or oiler on a dragline, may be given the opportunity to demonstrate their skills. Employees who are unable to demonstrate a satisfactory skill level will progress in the oiler classification as per the normal training procedure.
ARTICLE 12 - DISCIPLINE
12.01
The Company agrees to forward copies of all written warnings, notices of demotion, suspension or termination to the Union for their records. The Company agrees that all discipline will be removed from an employee’s employment record upon completion of an 18-month period in which the employee was discipline free, and will not be used in any disciplinary actions thereafter.
12.02
a.	A steward will be present when an employee is to be formally disciplined, unless the employee in question advises the steward otherwise.
b.	The Highvale Unit President (or his designate from the Highvale Unit), will be present when the disciplinary action for an employee is to be discharged, unless the employee advises the Unit President otherwise.
25
c.	When the Company holds formal investigative meetings with an employee in which discipline is being contemplated for that employee, it will be conducted in the presence of a steward, unless the employee advises the steward otherwise.
d Should a steward be unavailable, a member of the Highvale Unit Executive may attend.
e.	The unavailability of appropriate union representation will, where necessary, result in the granting of an extension to the time period for imposition of discipline as stated in 12(3).
f.	Notwithstanding the requirement for union representation, should the Company be unable to contact an employee, and/or should an employee be unable or unwilling to attend a meeting, the Company may proceed with disciplinary action. Any such disciplinary action will be communicated to the Union.
12.03
Employees shall be disciplined within eight of the employees working shifts from the later of the date of the incident or the date from which the Company was aware of the incident. This time may be extended by agreement between the Company and the Union.
12.04
Upon request, an employee may review his personnel file in accordance with the following criteria:
• the review must occur outside of the employee’s working hours at a time mutually agreed to between the employee and the Company;
26
•	the review must occur in the presence of a representative of the Company; and
•	a union representative may accompany the employee provided the review occurs outside the representative’s working hours.
ARTICLE 13 - GENERAL HOLIDAYS
13.01
The following days shall be observed as holidays without deduction of pay therefore:
New Year’s Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Good Friday Victoria Day Thanksgiving Day
Remembrance Day 2nd Monday in Feb. Canada Day Labour Day 1st Monday in Aug.
and any other day when nationally proclaimed and approved by the Provincial Government. In the event that a day in February is nationally proclaimed and approved by the Provincial Government as a holiday, then that day shall automatically replace the second Monday in February agreed to as a holiday.
13.02
When any of the above mentioned holidays fall during the period of an employee’s regularly assigned day or days of rest, the following regular working day shall be observed as the day of rest.
13.03
All time worked on a holiday as specified in Clause i of this Article, shall be paid at two times the employee’s regular rate of pay in addition to pay for the full holiday at the employee’s
27
regular rate of pay. If overtime is worked, the overtime provisions of Article 16 shall be invoked.
13.04
Employees will not be entitled to General Holiday pay for any General Holidays which occur in their first 30 days of employment.
13.05
The Company will advise the Union prior to the end of February of each year of the dates scheduled for staff socials. The Union shall have the right to alter the observance of a General Holiday to one of the above mentioned dates by providing written notice to the Company by March 31 of each year as to the date selected and the General Holiday to be altered.
ARTICLE 14 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
14.01
All employees covered by this Agreement shall be entitled to vacation with pay based upon years of continuous service as computed on the employee’s anniversary date of employment.
Such entitlement shall be as follows:
One year	10 working	days
Three years -	15 working days
Nine years	20 working	days
Nineteen years	■	25 working	days
14.02
Employees must accumulate one-year service from the date they commence employment with the Company prior to becoming eligible to take vacation.
28
14.03
Vacation pay shall be either two weeks, three weeks, four weeks or five weeks pay or 2/52, 3/52, 4/52 or 5/52 of the total earnings earned during the year the vacation was earned, whichever is the greater figure had he worked, as calculated on the employee’s anniversary date.
14.04
Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees who are or were absent from work due to a layoff shall be entitled to vacation and receive vacation pay on a prorata basis relating to time actually worked.
14.05
Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees who are or were absent from work on WCB, STD/LTD for a period of one year or more shall be entitled to, on a pro-rata basis relating to time actually worked, vacation and vacation pay.
Employees who are or were absent from work on WCB, STD/ LTD for a period of less than one year shall be entitled to vacation and vacation pay in accordance with Article 14(1) and 14(3).
14.06
At the employee’s option, vacation pay will either be paid to the employee on a separate cheque prior to going on vacation or with their regular pay.
14.07
Except as provided for in Article 14(12), seniority shall govern selection of vacation dates in cases of disputes. On or before January 15 of each year, a vacation planner will be posted, in a place accessible to all employees, for the purpose of requesting vacations for the current year. Employees will request vacation on
29
the posted planner prior to the closing date, which will normally be mid-March. Vacations will then be approved on the basis of seniority and the completed vacation planner will be re-posted, normally by mid-April. The dates for posting and re-posting of the vacation planner may be altered by mutual agreement.
Employees may then request vacations, including requests for less than one work cycle, on a “first come, first served” basis, for dates that remain available for vacation requests. These approved requests or changes will be confirmed in writing
14.08
For any General Holiday which occurs during the employee’s vacation, the said vacation period shall be increased by one working day for each General Holiday and the employee shall receive pay for the day.
14.09
Upon termination, an employee shall receive the unused portion of earned vacation in the form of vacation pay based upon his entitlement as provided for in this Article.
14.10
Vacations are not cumulative and must be taken in the 12-month period following eligibility.
14.11
Vacations for eligible employees will be granted as far as is practical, at times most desired by employees; provided however, the Company reserves the right of allotment of vacation periods in order to ensure orderly operation of the Mine.
14.12
If it is consistent with production and with the consent of the Company, employees may take their annual vacation in incre-
30
merits of at least one work cycle except where the employee has less than one cycle remaining in his entitlement and as provided for in Article 14(7). A work cycle is defined as the period from the beginning of work on the employee’s first scheduled day of work until the commencement of his regularly scheduled day of rest.
14.13
Should a death occur in the employee’s family as described in Article 6(3) while the employee is on vacation, and subject to the provisions of Article 6(3), the employee will be permitted to re-schedule vacation for the day(s) on which bereavement leave is utilized.
ARTICLE 15 - HOURS OF WORK
15.01
a.	Any employee changing a shift different from the one he or she is scheduled for shall receive 24 hours notice. Where such notice is not given, the employee shall be paid double time for time worked on the first shift following the change. All succeeding shifts of the employee’s new schedule shall be paid at the employee’s regular rate. Written confirmation of this change will be provided.
Should the Company require employees to change shifts, it will determine the shifts involved and where more than one employee is in the affected classification, the senior employee(s) will be given preference. For duration’s of less than one (I) month senior employees within the department and affected classification will be given preference.
b.	The normal workweek shall be five consecutive eight-hour days or shifts or as mutually agreed to.
c.	(i) Employees shall be required to work their regularly
scheduled shift exclusive of lunch break which shall be of 15 minutes duration. Employees working in excess
31
of their regularly scheduled shift including travel time from washhouse to the worksite and return, but excluding time taken for lunch shall be paid at overtime rates. Time worked by each employee shall be recorded by means of a time clock located in the washhouse and time cards shall be punched by each employee at the scheduled starting and stopping time of each shift. All time cards must be validated by the supervisor. Subject to the exclusion of the 15-minute lunch break employees will only be paid on the basis of the time shown on their individual time clock cards.
(ii) Ash Truck Operators at the Highvale Mine, Tradesmen, Apprentices, Field Maintenance Personnel, Shop Labourer, Tire Servicemen, Shop Servicemen, Warehousemen, and Janitors shall be required to work their regularly scheduled shifts inclusive of lunch breaks which shall be of 15 minutes duration.
15.02
a.	For shift schedules that average 40 or 42 hours of work per week per employee, the Company and Union shall mutually agree to such shift schedules that are in accordance with the Company’s operating requirements and associated required manpower levels, required hours of work per day and required hours of work per week in each area of the operation. In order to arrive at such mutual agreement, the Company shall propose suitable shift schedules and the Union may either agree to the shift schedules or propose alternative schedules that meet the Company’s requirements at no increased labour cost.
b.	Shift schedules other than those referred to in Article 15(2)(a) shall be by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
c.	Starting and stopping times shall be by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
32
d.	Such schedules shall be posted in conspicuous places and well in advance of their effective date.
15.03
Coffee and lunch breaks during working hours shall be continued as presently practised.
15.04
At spring change to daylight saving time employees will be paid for hours worked (11 on 12-hour shifts). At fall change to standard time employees will be paid for hours worked including any hours in excess of 12 at double time.
ARTICLE 16 - OVERTIME
16.01
Overtime will be voluntary subject to meeting the requirements of the operation.
16.02
All hours worked in any one day or any one week, outside of the regularly assigned hours of work which from time to time are agreed upon by the Parties, shall be considered as overtime hours and, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be paid at double the employee’s regular pay.
16.03
Any employee who, because of an emergency, is called out for duty at any time after or before his regular work period, shall be free when the emergency is over but shall, nevertheless, be paid a minimum of four hours at double the employee’s regular pay. Emergency work in excess of four hours shall be paid at the rate of double time.
33
16.04
Employees required to work on their regularly assigned days of rest shall be paid as follows:
a.	When employees are assigned two consecutive days of rest, double the regular rate of pay.
b.	When an assigned day of rest falls on a Sunday and when employees are required to work on such day of rest, they shall be paid at double the regular rate of pay.
16.05
Any employee who normally is required to report for work and so reports but who, after reporting, is sent home, shall receive not less than four hours pay at such employee’s regular pay, excepting Acts of God or circumstances beyond the Company’s control.
16.06
Overtime shall be paid at double time.
16.07
All overtime shift work shall be paid shift differential pay.
16.08
A system will be implemented to eliminate the problem of employee’s not arriving back at the washhouses within normal hours of work. Additional manhaul vehicle(s) will be provided to insure the problem is eliminated.
Should employees not be returned to the washhouses in accordance with the above, then the following overtime rates will apply:
1 to 7 minutes late	= double time rates
34
8 to 23 minutes late 24 to 38 minutes late
3 8 minutes late or later
15 minutes at double time 30 minutes at double time
the above rates applied in a logical progressive fashion (i.e.. 45 minutes at double time, etc.)
16.09
When, in the discretion of the Company, overtime is required opportunities for overtime will be distributed as equitably as practicable amongst the employees in the classification who normally perform the work for which overtime is required and in accordance with the jointly developed overtime distribution document. This document may be amended by mutual agreement.
16.10
Should the Company make an error when administering the overtime distribution system, and such error results in an employee not being given the opportunity to work overtime and another employee works the overtime opportunity, the following remedies will apply:
(i)	for the first two times the same employee is wronged in any one calendar year, he will be given an extraordinary overtime opportunity for each of the infractions, of a duration equal to the time worked by the employee who received the opportunity. Such opportunity will be at the discretion of the employee, provided the day selected is within 30 of his regular shifts worked from the date that it is determined that an error was made, and is on a day that the Mine is in full operation.
(ii)	for the third and subsequent errors for the same employee in the same calendar year, he will be considered as having worked for the purpose of the overtime procedure and will receive compensation at double his
35
regular rate of pay for the time worked by the employee who received the overtime opportunity.
The clause shall not apply when the overtime worked is the result of an emergency situation.
ARTICLE 17 -	PAYMENT OF WAGES
17.01
All wages due to employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid them on every other Friday following the period for which their pay is due.
17.02
On each pay-day, the Company shall provide to each employee, an itemized statement setting forth the total number of hours worked by the employee concerned during the immediately preceding pay period, the rate of wages applicable to him, all deductions made from his wages whatsoever, the purpose for which such deductions were made, the total amount actually paid to him and such other information as may from time to time be agreed upon by the Parties.
17.03
The Union negotiation committee shall consist of a maximum of six employees. Each committee member will be paid eight hours per day for negotiations at their regular straight time rate. At no time will this be used for the purpose of calculating overtime.
ARTICLE 18 - DIFFERENTIALS
18.01
Employees shall be paid in addition to other wages payable to them, a differential for all hours worked on shifts commencing between the hours of 2:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m. in the amounts of:
36
Afternoon shift	- $.50/per hour
Midnight shift	- $.85/per hour
ARTICLE 19 - GROUP INSURANCE
19.01	Life Insurance
a.	The Company shall provide a policy of insurance for an amount of $50,000 Life Insurance and $50,000 Accidental Death and Dismemberment, a copy of which shall be supplied to the Union.
b,	Coverage shall commence on the first of the month coinciding with or next following two months of continuous employment.
19.02	Dental Plan
a. The Parties hereby agree to maintain the group dental plan for all employees covered by the scope of this Agreement. The coverage, at the current rate as set by the Alberta Dental Association shall be as follows:
A - Basic and Routine - 100%
B - Major and Restorative - 90%
C - Orthodontics - 50%
Maximums:	A & B combined-$2,000/person/year;
C - $l,500/person/lifetime.
The premium costs of the dental plan shall be borne in its entirety by the Company.
Effective April 1, 2002, the combined maximum for Plan A and B services will be increased to $2,500 per person per year.
Effective April 1, 2002, the Plan C lifetime maximum will be increased to $2,500 per person
37
b, Coverage shall commence on the first of the month coinciding with or next following two months of continuous employment.
19.03	Health Care
The Company will pay the entire cost of the appropriate Alberta Health Care Insurance premiums for all employees, excluding employee arrears.
19.04	Long Term Disability
a.	The Company will provide a Long Term Disability Plan; elfective January 1, 1981, The cost of the Long Term Disability Plan will be borne in its entirety by the Company. The Plan shall include the following conditions:
(i)	Effective after 17 weeks disability;
(ii)	Benefits equal to 60% of salary;
(iii)	Maximum benefits will be 60% of the weighted average for the bargaining unit. The weighted average calculation will not include employees hired as Labourers or Watchmen/Janitors after September 21, 1987.
b.	Coverage shall commence on the first of the month coinciding with or next following two months of continuous employment.
c.	If any employee on Long Term Disability is unable to perform the duties of his regular job classification the Company shall appoint such employee to do alternate work to be paid at the rate for such work.
No employee will be appointed to do alternate work under this clause unless the Company determines that the completion of the alternate work is necessary and the employee has received clearance to perform the alternate
38
work by a medical practitioner selected jointly by the Company and the Union.
Evidence of the medical practitioner’s clearance to return to work shall be provided to the Highvale Unit Executive.
Employees who refuse such alternate work shall be terminated, unless the Union and the Company mutually agree to lesser discipline.
19.05	Short Term Disability
a.	The Company will provide a Short Term Disability Plan to become effective January 1, 1981. The cost of the Short Term Disability Plan will be borne in its entirety by the Company. The Plan shall include the following conditions:
(i)	Benefits commence the first day of the accident and/or hospitalization; and the sixth day of illness;
(ii)	Benefits continue for 17 weeks duration;
(iii)	Benefits will be for 66 2/3% of salary;
(iv)	Until April 1, 1993, maximum benefits will be 66 2/3% of weighted average for the bargaining unit. The weighted average calculation will not include employees hired as Labourers or Watchmen/Janitors after September 21, 1987.
(v)	Effective April 1, 1993, benefits will be equal to 66 2/ 3% of salary.
b.	Coverage shall commence on the first of the month coinciding with or next following two months of continuous employment.
39
19.06	Major Medical
a.	The Company will provide a major medical plan for all employees and dependants. The cost of this plan shall be borne in its entirety by the Company. The plan shall include the following conditions:
(i)	Semiprivate hospital coverage;
(ii)	The payment for ambulance services;
(iii)	Prepaid prescription drug plan with a coinsurance of 100% towards the cost of prescriptions, and an annual deductible of $15.00 for either single or family coverage;
(iv)	All other coverage as provided for in Plan booklet
b.	Coverage shall commence on the first of the month coinciding with or next following two months of continuous employment.
19.07	Optical
a.	The Company shall provide an optical plan to provide a maximum of $125.00 in each 24 month period, commencing April 1, 1992, for an employee or employee’s spouse and each dependent child toward the purchase of prescription glasses or corrective lenses purchased in that period. The cost shall be verified by an appropriate receipt. For the purpose of this clause, a 24 month period will be that period from April 1st in one year to March 31st two years thereafter. Effective April 1, 2002, the level of coverage will be increased to $200 per 24-month period.
b.	Coverage shall commence on the first of the month coinciding with or next following two months of continuous employment.
40
19.08
Coverage provided shall be subject to the terms and conditions as set out in general terms in the Collective Agreement and, where applicable, as per the specifics of coverage as set out in each insurance agreement. The coverage as set out in each document may not be amended without the mutual agreement of the parties. Should the Company opt to self-insure, coverage will remain as per the last insurance document. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company reserves the right to retain alternate insurance providers.
a.	A copy of all insurance plans and policies covering employees within the bargaining unit will be supplied to the Union by the Company.
ARTICLE 20 - SICK LEAVE ACCUMULATIVE
20.01
Each employee shall maintain accumulated sick leave credits up to a maximum of one year or 260 days.
As of January 1, 1981 and each succeeding year, each employee will be credited with five sick leave days.
For new employees such credits will be granted from the date of commencement of employment but no employee shall be entitled to sick leave pay until he has completed three mouths of continuous employment. Unused sick leave credits earned since January 1, 1981 will not be carried into the years following the year which they are earned.
The employee will have the option of using his credited sick leave days and/or the Short Term Disability Plan and Long Term Disability Plan.
41
20.02
Every employee who may be absent from duty on account of sickness shall notify his immediate supervisor and no employee shall be entitled to benefits for time previous to such notification, unless the delay shall be shown to have been unavoidable.
If an employee does not report one half hour prior to the commencement of the shift that he will not be in to work due to illness or a non-occupational injury, the employee will forfeit two hours of eligible sick leave pay.
20.03
Before payment is made under sick leave benefits, the Company may require a medical certificate or a written statement from the employee and in cases of lengthy illness, the Company shall call for physician’s reports from time to time as it deems necessary.
20.04
The Company reserves the right to call for an examination at any time by a physician designated by the Company if such procedure is deemed advisable.
20.05
For the purpose of this Article, sickness shall include injury other than accidental injury arising out of and in the course of employment by the Company. It is understood that this Article does not apply when an employee is employed by an employer other than the Company or on Workers Compensation.
20.06
The Company agrees to prepare and post in January, April, July and October of each year, in places accessible to all employees, a statement listing the names of all employees indicating the amounts of sick leave credits used by each for the preceding three month period. Such statement shall be open to protest for
42
a period of 30 days and on presentation by a member of the Union of proof of error, a correction shall be made immediately. Such corrections shall be shown on a supplementary statement. In addition to the foregoing, the Company agrees to supply the Union, in January of each year, with a statement of the unexpended sick leave credits as of December 31 st, in respect of all employees.
20.07
In the event that an employee’s absence due to illness extends from one year into the next, our policy in future will be that this will not effect the employee’s eligibility for sick day payout in the new year. Once an employee has returned to active duty at the mine, any subsequent absence will reduce the employee’s sick day payout eligibility.
ARTICLE 21 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
21.01
Where circumstances warrant and as mutually agreed upon, a five-minute washup period shall be granted for employees before the end of each shift.
21,02
There shall be a maximum of eight Shop Stewards at the Highvale Mine covered under the scope of this Agreement.
21,03
The Company shall pay an employee who is required for jury service, the difference between his pay for his regular shifts normally worked and the daily jury fee received. In the event an employee is subpoenaed to appear in court as a witness in a matter in which he has no direct interest, he shall be offered alternative shifts at his regular pay to make up for money lost.
43
21.04
Employees who are involved in occurrences in which Company property is damaged and who fail to report each such occurrence to their supervisor within eight hours of such occurrence are subject to discipline.
21.05
The Company agrees:
a.	To pay to pupils attending Trade School, an amount of money that together with the amount or amounts of money paid to the pupil by any outside agency, will constitute 100% of the pupil’s normal salary.
b.	Apprentice selections will be based on the Seniority, Provincial Pre-Apprentice Test results and related experience of candidates bidding for posted apprenticeships. Selection criteria will be weighted as follows:
(i)	Seniority 35%
(ii)	Test Results 30%
(iii)	Related Experience 35%*
* Related experience will be determined by a joint committee consisting of three members appointed by the Union and three members appointed by the Company.
c.	In the event that an apprentice fails the tests at the end of his period of training in the Vocational School, the apprentice will be given an opportunity to rewrite his/her examination or take a leave of absence without pay or any other company paid allowances to re-attend that period of training. In the event he/she selects the leave of absence his seniority will be maintained.
44
d.	Apprentice tradesmen, who maintain a permanent residence in excess of 80 kilometres from the institution they attend will be paid a maximum of $350.00 per month for the additional room and board costs incurred while attending school.
e.	The Company agrees to provide Technical School Training to Mine Electricians toward Mine Electricians achieving “Journeyman” status. This program shall be initiated immediately.
f.	Blaster Trainee
Employees will be selected as per Article 11 and must be prepared to have the necessary qualifications as set out in the applicable Government Legislation.
Each such employee shall be required to sit for examination each year and in the event of failure to pass such examination, the Company shall have the right to remove such Blaster Trainee from this classification.
g.	Employees who take upgrading courses specifically approved by the Company shall have their tuition paid upon successful completion of the course.
21.06
Personal tools required by an employee on the job will be replaced by the Company with same brand or equivalent if they have been lost or damaged on the job site. Personal toolboxes will be repaired or replaced if damaged on the job-site.
Each employee who is required to supply tools shall prepare an inventory of his tools and this inventory shall be verified and cosigned by a management representative at the time of hire. Signed copies of the inventory shall be retained by the Company and the employee. Any employee purchasing new tools shall report such additions to his Foreman and they shall each initial
45
amendments to the inventory and copies of such amendments shall be retained by the Company and the employee.
21.07
After two (2) hours of overtime which is continuous with an employee’s regular shift, or after two consecutive hours on call out duty the employee may request a hot meal or a meal voucher.
21.08
The Company shall provide and bear the cost of a sufficient supply of new collective agreements, in book form, to the Union.
21.09
Where the masculine pronoun is used in this agreement, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun, unless the context clearly provides otherwise.
21.10
The Company and the Union agree that they will not discriminate against any employee due to race, colour, creed, sex, age, nationality, political beliefs, marital status or Union membership.
21,11
The Company will provide the Union with a locking bulletin board not smaller than four feet square in the locker rooms, or in another place as mutually agreed to, for the sole purpose of posting Union notices and official papers pertaining to Union affairs. Notices will be posted only by Officers of the Union and will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of this agreement.
46
21.12
Monthly Union/Management meetings will be held to discuss
issues relating to labour relations and technological change,
based on the following conditions:
a.	There shall be a maximum of three members appointed on behalf of the Company and three members appointed on behalf of the Union.
b.	All meetings are to be held on site.
c.	The members appointed by both parties shall decide how the meetings are to be structured and the date the meetings are to occur.
d.	The members appointed by the Union shall not suffer a loss in regular earnings as a result of said meetings.
e.	Minutes of meetings will be jointly reviewed and signed prior to being posted. The minutes will be posted on the designated bulletin boards within seven (7) calendar days of the meeting
21.13
Post-secondary students may be hired for the period of May 1 st through September 7th at the entry level labourer’s rate. In the case of high school students hired for the period of May 1 st through September 7th, they will be paid at the rate of $9.00 per hour.
Students will not qualify for any benefits, allowances or income replacement plans (including sick days and sick day buy-out) under the terms of the Collective Agreement, but will be eligible for statutory holiday pay and shift differentials as set out in the Collective Agreement. Students shall have all rights as specified in the Collective Agreement dealing with the grievance procedure.
47
Students working on in scope duties, with the exception of Labourer, Water Truck Operator, End Dump Operator or Warehouse will be paid at the appropriate rates of pay for that classification under the Collective Agreement.
The Union waives initiation fees for students hired May 1st through September 7th at the Highvale Mine. Regular union dues will be deducted from post-secondary students and deducted from high school students at the rate of 60% of regular dues. Any employee on layoff with recall rights will be returned to work prior to the hiring of summer students.
ARTICLE 22 - OCCUPATIONALCLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
22.01
CLASSIFICATION	RATE	RATE	RATE
	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
	FROM	APRIL 1	APRIL 1
RATIFICATION		2002	2003
Certified Welder	$26.50	$27.30	$28.12
Certified Mechanic	$26.50	$27.30	$28.12
Certified Electrician	$26.50	$27.30	$28.12
Certified Millwright	$26.50	$27.30	$28.12
Certified Machinist	$26.50	$27.30	$28.12
Certified Carpenter	$26.50	$27.30	$28.12
Certified Crane Operator	$26.50	$27.30	$28.12
Certified Light Duty ,	$26.50	$27.30	$28.12
Mechanic			
Shovel Operator	$25.93	$26.71	$27.51
Front-End Loader Operator	$25.93	$26.71	$27.51
Dragline Operator	$25.93	$26.71	$27.51
Crane Operator	$25.93	$26.71	$27.51
Certified Blaster	$24.94	$25.69	$26.46
Coal Handling Plant	$24.94	$25.69	$26.46
Operator
48
CLASSIFICATION	RATE EFFECTIVE FROM RATIFICATION	RATE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1 2002	RATE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1 2003
Ash Plant Operator	$24.94	$25.69	$26.46
Tire Serviceman	$24.55	$25.29	$26.05
Trac-Truck Serviceman	$24.55	$25.29	$26.05
Crawler Tractor Operator	$24.55	$25.29	$26.05
Power Scraper Operator	$24.55	$25.29	$26.05
Backhoe Operator	$24.55	$25,29	$26.05
Shovel & Dragline Oiler	$24.21	$24.94	$25.69
Field Maintenance Oiler	$24.21	$24.94	$25.69
Trac-Truck Driver (15 tons & over)	$24.21	$24.94	$25.69
Coal Handling Plant Oiler	$24.21	$24.94	$25.69
Road Maintenance Operator $24.21		$24.94	$25.69
Drill Operator	$24.21	$24.94	$25.69
Tradesman’s Helper	$24.03	$24.75	$25.49
Pit Pumpman	$24.03	$24.75	$25.49
Trac-Truck Drivers (under 15 tons)	$24.03	$24.75	$25.49
Warehouseman	$21.57	$22.22	$22.89
Shipper/Receiver	$21.57	$22.22	$22.89
Labourer	$20.66	$21.28	$21.92
Watchman - Janitor	$20.66	$21.28	$21.92
Labourer (hired after Sept. 21/87)	$16.06	$16.54	$17.04
Watchman - Janitor	$16.06	$16.54	$17.04
(hired after Sept. 21/87)
*
Retroactive increase of 3% effective from April 1, 2001 to October 11, 2001.
49
TRADESMEN APPRENTICE
First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year
60% of Certified Rate 70% of Certified Rate 80% of Certified Rate 90% of Certified Rate
NOTE: Three-year apprentice trades eliminate the second year level
1a.	Labourers who are successful in obtaining a new bid
position, and have successfully completed their training of trial period in the new classification, but are subsequently bumped pursuant to Article 9 to a labourer position, or are reverted back to a labourer position by the company, shall be paid the labourer rate without reference to their date of hire.
b. A Eleavy Duty Mechanic Apprentice replacing a Trac-Truck Serviceman may elect to receive a rate over-ride for the period of time spent working as a Serviceman. If the employee elects to receive the rate over-ride, such period of time will not count towards his apprenticeship hours. No rate over-ride shall be given when an Apprentice is replacing a Tradesman’s Helper.
ARTICLE 23 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
23.01
The Union agrees there shall be no strikes and the Company agrees there shall be no lockouts during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 24 - PENSION PLAN
24.01
It is understood and agreed that the terms and conditions of the document entitled “Pension Plan for Hourly Employees of Luscar Ltd. - Highvale Mine” as established January 1, 1975 and as amended are accepted. The benefit levels in effect as of December 31, 1998 will not be altered or amended without the consent of the Union.
Effective January 1, 1999 the defined benefit pension plan will be amended to increase the death benefit provided to 100% of the commuted value of the pension benefit to which the employee would have been entitled in respect of such credited service had he terminated employment on the date of his death, for all service prior to October 1, 1992.
24.02
New Employees will be required to join the Pension Plan upon completion of 30 calendar days of employment with the Company.
24.03
The Union shall receive a copy of the Pension Plan and copies of all amendments, proposed changes and actuarial studies relating to the Pension Plan that are produced during the term of this Collective Agreement.
24.04
The Company agrees to meet on a joint basis with all unions representing employees who are plan members once but in no event more than twice in any one calendar year to review the annual actuarial valuation of the Pension Plan for Hourly Employees of Luscar Ltd. and to discuss othermatters if any, related solely to the Pension Plan and its administration.
51
These meetings may be attended by a maximum of two union representatives from the mine site who may be accompanied by a representative from their National union.
24.05
Effective April 1, 2002, the Company agrees to remove the 35 year limit on the maximum pension provision of the Plan.
ARTICLE 25 - EMPLOYEE & FAMILY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
25.01
The parties agree to the ongoing support, during the term of this Agreement, to an Employee and Family Assistance Program. The program shall be administered on a joint basis and the procedures of the program shall be mutually agreed upon. The program will be reviewed on a quarterly basis.
ARTICLE 26 - WORKING RESTRICTIONS
26.01
The Company and the Union agree that neither a foreman nor a relief foreman shall perform the work that is usually performed by Union members, except in emergencies arising out of an act of nature, or sickness, provided every reasonable effort has been made to obtain an employee for the work in question.
ARTICLE 27 - CONTRACTING OUT
27.01
The Company agrees that it will not contract out work at the operation which is normally performed by employees if an employee will be terminated or laid off and such employee is qualified to perform the work.
Such contracting out shall not result in the loss of work to any Highvale employee whose name appears on the current Seniority list.
52
27.02
The Company and Union Executive shall meet monthly to discuss and review contracting out, including warranty work.
When work is to he contracted out, the Company will advise the Union of the following:
a)	the work being contracted out.
b)	the expected duration of the contract.
c)	the anticipated number of contracted employees
27.03
No member of the Highvale Unit Executive shall suffer a loss in earnings as a result of said meetings.
27.04
This meeting shall be held in conjunction with the regularly monthly Union/Management meetings.
ARTICLE 28 - COOLING SYSTEMS
28.01
The Company agrees to install an air conditioning system in the lunchrooms at the Highvale Mine.
Circulating fans will be installed in the cab of all equipment.
All new major equipment will he purchased with air conditioning. Air conditioning will he installed on existing major equipment during major rebuilds e.g. certified rebuilds.
53
ARTICLE 29 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT	
29.01	
This Agreement shall be effective as of the first day of April, 2001 and shall remain in force and effect up to and including the 31st day of March, 2004 and from year to year thereafter providing that either party may, not less than 60 days nor more than 120 days prior to the anniversary date hereof give notice in writing to the other party of their intention to terminate this Agreement or negotiate a revision thereof.	
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties hereto have caused these presents to be executed the day and year first above written.	
Luscar Ltd,, Highvale Mine	United Steelworkers of America, Local 1595
Vince Miller General Manager	Dale Friedel President
AI Hamernick Human Resources Manager	Bob Bernard Vice-president
Mike Peck Mine Manager	Walter Case Recording Secretary
Tom Watts Manager, Industrial Relations	Curtis Daniels Treasurer
	Lance Dyck Trustee
54	Keith Turcotte Staff Representative
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #96-01 BETWEEN:
LUSCAR LTD.
HIGHVALE MINE
-AND-
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595
RE:	Compressed Work Week 12 Hour Shift Schedule
For purposes of the 12 hour shift schedule:
a.	A tour will be the number of scheduled consecutive working days without a scheduled day off;
b.	A work week will be defined as that period of time commencing at 7:00 a.m. Sunday and terminating 168 hours thereafter on the succeeding Sunday;
c.	Unless otherwise scheduled by the Company, day shift will be 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and night shift will be 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
d.	Shift differential will be paid in the amount of $0.90 per hour for night shifts. No shift differential will be paid for day shift.
e.	This shift schedule repeats itself after eight weeks.
1.	a. The agreed upon compressed work week schedule averages 42 hours of work per week over an eight week cycle. The scheduled overtime will be prevented by scheduling time off in lieu.
55
b.	Employees must complete a minimum of four tours as defined in this letter of agreement, before time off in lieu will be granted.
c.	Overtime will not be paid if incurred as a result of discontinuing the 12 hour shift schedule.
d.	Mutual trades of shifts or days off must be in writing, signed by both parties, and approved by the Mine Manager or his designate, 48 hours before proposed, to ensure coverage.
2.	a. For the purpose of the 12 hour shift schedule, a
General Holiday will begin at 7:00 a.m. on the day of the General Holiday and end at 7:00 a.m. on the day following the General Holiday with the exception of Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and New Years Day which will be observed from 7:00 p.m, of the day preceding the General Holiday until 7:00 p.m. on the day of the General Holiday.
b.	The days listed as per Article 13(1) shall be observed as holidays with 12 hours pay per employee normally scheduled to work, and eight hours pay per employee not normally scheduled to work.
c.	When any of the above mentioned holidays fall during the period of an employee’s regularly assigned day or days of rest, there will be no additional time off granted, nor will overtime be incurred.
d.	All time worked on a General Holiday will be paid as per Article 13(3) of the Collective Agreement. A General Holiday will be observed as defined in clause 2(a) and 2(b) of this letter of agreement.
3.	a. Vacations will be granted in accordance with Ar-
ticle 14 of the Collective Agreement as it relates to qualifying for vacation and vacation pay. Notwith-
56
standing the provisions of Article 14 of this Collective Agreement, actual vacation pay and time off will be determined as follows:
b.	For any General Holiday which occurs during the employee’s vacation, the said vacation period shall be increased by eight hours for each General Holiday and the employee shall receive eight hours pay.
c.	Vacations will be granted on the basis of 12-hour days. Employees with less than one year of completed service will be subject to Article 14(2) of the Collective Agreement.
d.	Days of vacation will be based on hours of entitlement rounded to the nearest 12 hours. This will include General Holiday entitlement where applicable.
4.	Special leaves of absence as stated in Article 6(3) of the present Collective Agreement shall convert to shifts. This shall be interpreted as a maximum of 36 hours leave with pay in the case of death in the employee’s immediate family and in the event of other stated members, 12 hours of leave with pay shall be granted.
5.	a. Group insurance policies will be maintained as per Article 19 of the Collective Agreement, based on an eight hour day, 40 hour work week.
b.	The five days sick leave, as stated in Article 20(1) of the Collective Agreement, will convert to 40 hours sick leave entitlement.
One Year Three Years Nine Years Nineteen Years
57
c.	Sick leave credits accumulated before January I, 1981 will also be expressed in hours for each individual, with one-day entitlement being eight hours.
6.	Normal coffee breaks and lunch periods of the 12-hour shift schedule will be as follows:
DAY SHIFT
NIGHT SHIFT
10 minute break at 09:00 a.m. 15 minute break at 11:00 a.m. 10 minute break at 01:00 p.m. 15 minute break at 03:00 p.m. 10 minute break at 05:00 p.m.
10 minute break at 09:00 p.m. 15 minute break at 11:00 p.m. 10 minute break at01:00 a.m. 15 minute break at 03:00 a.m. 10 minute break at 05:00 a.m.
7.	With reference to the warehouse personnel, there will be one person designated to provide coverage for the following:
a,	normal lieu days, as required, for those employees following the compressed work week schedule.
b,	annual vacation, as required, for those employees following the compressed work week schedule.
c,	sick time, as required, for those employees following the compressed work week schedule.
The person designated to provide this coverage work on an eight-hour shift, 40-hour workweek basis will be given time off in lieu for the hours of coverage provided.
For those warehouse employees following the compressed workweek schedule, any lieu day which is
58
normally scheduled on Sunday will be rescheduled to that Monday.
Due to the nature of the job performed, the flexibility which presently exists, with regards to coffee and lunch breaks, will remain.
It is expressly understood that this letter of agreement applies to the HIGHVALE MINE only and remains in effect for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
RENEWED this 9th day of November, 2001.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Vince Miller A1 Hamernick Mike Peck Tom Watts
Dale Friedel Bob Bernard Walter Case Curtis Daniels Lance Dyck Keith Turcotte
59
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #96-02 BETWEEN:
LUSCAR LTD.
HIGHVALE MINE
-AND-
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595
RE:	Compressed Work WeekIO-ffour Shift Schedule
For purposes of the 10 hour shift schedule:
Unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union, the regular hours of work will be 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
1.	Mutual trades of shifts or days off must he in writing, signed by both parties and approved by the Mine Manager or his designate, 48 hours before proposed, to ensure coverage.
2.	a. The days listed as per Article 13(1) shall be observed as
holidays with eight hours of pay per employee.
b.	Article 13(2) of the Collective Agreement shall apply.
c.	All time worked on a General Holiday will be paid as per Article 13(3) of the Collective Agreement.
a.	Vacations will be granted in accordance with Article 14 of the Collective Agreement as it relates to qualifying for vacation and vacation pay. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 14 of this Collective Agreement, actual pay and time off will be determined as follows: One Year	80	hours	pay
Three Years	120 hours	pay
Nine Years	160 hours	pay
Nineteen Years	200 hours	pay
60
b.	For any General Holiday which occurs during the employee’s vacation, the said vacation period shall be increased by eight hours for each General Holiday and the employee shall receive eight hours pay.
c.	Vacations will he granted on the basis of 10-hour days. Employee’s with less than one year of completed service will be subject to Article 14(2) of the Collective Agreement.
d.	Days of vacation will he based on hours of entitlement rounded to the nearest 10 hours. This will include General Holiday entitlement where applicable.
4.	Special leaves of absence as stated in Article 6(3) of the present Collective Agreement shall convert to shifts. This shall he interpreted as a maximum of 30 hours leave with pay in the case of death in the employee’s immediate family and in the event of other stated members, 10 hours of leave with pay shall he granted.
5.	a. Group insurance policies will be maintained as per
Article 19 of the Collective Agreement, based on an eight-hour day, 40-hour week.
b.	The five days sick leave, as stated in Article 20(1) of the Collective Agreement, will convert to 40 hours sick leave entitlement.
c.	Sick leave credits accumulated before January 1, 1981 will also he expressed in hours for each individual, with one-day entitlement being eight hours.
6.	Normal coffee breaks and lunch periods of 10-hour shift schedule will he as follows:
10 minute break at 09:00 a.m.
15 minute break at 11:00 a.m.
10 minute break at 01:00 p.m.
15 minute break at 03:00 p.m.
61
It is expressly understood that this letter of agreement applies to the HIGHVALE MINE only and remains in effect for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
RENEWED this 9th day of November, 2001.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Vince Miller	Dale Friedel
AI Hamernick	Bob Bernard
Mike Peck	Walter Case
Tom Watts	Curtis Daniels Lance Dyck Keith Turcotte
62
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #96-03
BETWEEN:
-AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595
RE:	Lead Hand
The Company may designate employees as lead hands and they will receive $1.00 per hour more than his regular rate. A lead hand acts as a leader of a group or groups of employees working on similar or related work. He assigns work to the men as directed by the Supervisor and works along with and co-ordinates work among them. The lead hand functions as a work leader and not as a Supervisor. He is responsible for the correct completion of work but not for disciplinary action or other personnel matters which are the responsibility of the Supervisor to whom the lead hand reports. The lead hand function is not considered to be a permanent position. The lead hand will revert back to his former position immediately after termination of his lead hand position. Lead hands will not be used to replace Foremen or Relief Foremen.
RENEWED this 9th day of November, 2001
FOR THE COMPANY Vince Miller AI Hamernick
Dale Friedel Bob Bernard Walter Case
FOR THE UNION
Mike Peck Tom Watts
Curtis Daniels Lance Dyck Keith Tnrcotte
63
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #96-09 BETWEEN:
LUSCAR LTD.
HIGHVALE MINE
-AND-
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595
RE:	Sick Pay Pav-out
Those employees who have not utilized their yearly sick pay entitlement from the prior calendar year shall be paid 50% of their unused entitlement in the first pay period of January of each year. For the purpose of determining whether sick time has been utilized, absence due to illness or injury other than an accidental injury arising out of and in the course of employment by the Company shall be deemed sickness. However, employees who have accumulated sick time prior to 1981 may utilize such time without impacting upon their entitlement to the 50% payment until such banked sick time is exhausted.
RENEWEDthis 9th day of November, 2001
FOR THE COMPANY Vince Miller AI Hamernick Mike Peck Tom Watts
FOR THE UNION Dale Friedel Bob Bernard Walter Case Curtis Daniels Lance Dyck Keith Turcotte
64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #98-01 BETWEEN:
LUSCAR LTD. HIGHVALE MINE
-AND -
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595
RE:	Hot Change
The Company agrees to maintain the current practice of payment for employees who are required to hot change.
The Company agrees that at the request of the union, the parties will review the time paid for hot change and will make adjustments where appropriate.
This letter of Understanding is subject to the Grievance and Arbitration process of this Collective Agreement.
RENEWED this 9th day of November, 2001
FOR THE COMPANY Vince Miller AI Hamernick Mike Peck Tom Watts
FOR THE UNION Dale Friedel Bob Bernard Walter Case Curtis Daniels Lance Dyck Keith Turcotte
65
November 8, 2001
Keith Turcotte Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America Local 1595
Dear Keith:
This will confirm our understanding reached during negotiations with respect to employees working on lieu days.
The principles that govern lieu days are:
The Company will pay overtime to those employees required to work their scheduled lieu days.
The Company will determine shift schedules as per the Collective Agreement: Article 15.02 a.
The Company will determine the number of employees required to work lieu days.
The procedure for filling the lieu day overtime will be the practice that is utilised for General Holidays as described in the Overtime Document.
An employee may request pay for the lieu day worked at straight time and in addition reschedule another lieu day at a time to be mutually agreed, in lieu of overtime pay for the lieu day worked, upon mutual agreement between the employee and supervisor.
Vince Miller General Manager
66
April 30, 2001
V
Keith TUrcotte Staff Representative United Steelworkers of America Local 1595
Dear Keith,
In the interest of improved training on site, the Company and the Union support the concept of a joint Training Committee. This Committee will be formed within 60 days from the date of ratification and will then establish its goals. The Committee will remain in affect for a period of 12 months beyond the goal setting date. During this period, the purpose of the Committee will be to review and incorporate suggestions / recommendations to training. The Committee will consist of 2 Union representatives and 2 Company representatives.
Vince Miller General Manager
67