Collective Agreement Between Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands and Unifor Local 707-A
Collective Agreement
Between
Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands
and
Unifor Local 707-A
Suncor
UniFOR
theUnion | lesyndicat
Expires: May 1, 2016
SUNCOR ENERGY INC., OIL SANDS
OF THE FIRST PART
AND
UNIFOR LOCAL 707-A
OF THE SECOND PART
This AGREEMENT entered into this 6th day of September, 2013 between SUNCOR ENERGY INC., OIL SANDS, hereinafter referred to as "the Company" and UNIFOR LOCAL 707-A, hereinafter referred to as the "the Union".
The PARTIES hereto mutually agree as follows:
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE I	-	Purpose....................................... 1
ARTICLE II	-	Recognition................................... 1
ARTICLE III	-	Management Rights............................. 2
ARTICLE IV	-	Union Relations............................... 2
ARTICLE V	-	Hours Of Work................................. 4
ARTICLE VI	-	Overtime..................................... 14
ARTICLE VII	-	Salaries..................................... 19
ARTICLE VIII	-	Vacations ................................... 20
ARTICLE IX	-	Holidays..................................... 27
ARTICLE X	-	Leave Of Absence............................. 30
ARTICLE XI	-	Promotion, Seniority, Transfers,
Training And Progression Charts.............. 32
ARTICLE XII	-	Layoff And Discharge......................... 38
ARTICLE XIII	-	Grievance Procedure.......................... 42
ARTICLE XIV	-	Safety, Health And General Conditions.....	45
ARTICLE XV	-	Incorporation Of Overtime Agreement.......	47
ARTICLE XVI	-	Effective Date, Duration And Amendments...	47
APPENDIX "A"	- Salary Groups.............................. 50
APPENDIX "B"	- Master Maintenance Progression Notes.......	63
Maintenance Job Progression Chart & Notes -
Electronics Department........................................... 66
Maintenance Job Progression Chart & Notes -
Plant Industrial Maintenance..................................... 68
Mine Equipment Maintenance - Job Progression Chart & Notes....	70
Extraction Operator Salary - Job Progression Chart & Notes....	75
Upgrading Operator Salary - Job Progression Chart & Notes......	81
Laboratory Technician Salary - Job Progression Chart & Notes...	87
Materials Distribution Department Salary - Job Progression
Chart &	Notes................................... 91
Mine / Tailings Departments Progression	Chart	&	Notes.............. 93
Energy & Utilities Operator Salary - Job Progression Chart & Notes....	98
APPENDIX "C"	- Overtime Coverage For Extraction /
Upgrading / Energy & Utilities Progression.	102
APPENDIX "C”	- Overtime Coverage For Mine And Tailings
Department.................................... 105
Appendix "D"	- Banked Overtime.............................. 106
Appendix "E"	- Revised Job Posting Process - Article 11.08.. 116
Shift Schedules	..................................... 117
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.01	a) The purpose of this Agreement is to promote harmonious relations between the Company and the employees; encourage safety; promote the morale of all employees through procedures for the fair and peaceful resolution of grievances and disputes; to provide a means for continuing dialogue between the Company and the Union that has the mutual objective of resolving differences and matters of concern to either party and to promote a shared commitment to effective and efficient operation in the interest of both parties.
b)	The provisions of this Agreement are intended to be gender neutral, and will be interpreted on that basis.
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent for all non-supervisory employees excluding office staff, messenger-drivers, Loss Management staff, survey crew and those employed in a confidential capacity in matters relating to labour relations; the Union having been certified by the Labour Relations Board as Bargaining Agent on behalf of the said Employees.
2.02	If the Company implements, during the life of the Agreement, a new job not currently covered by this Agreement, the Company shall notify the Union of this new job and the salary which would be applicable. If the Union disagrees with the salary established by the Company, the Union shall advise the Company in writing of their desire to negotiate the salary. If agreement is not reached between the parties within thirty (30) days of the written notice, the matter may be referred, for determination, to arbitration in accordance with Article 13. If the salary for the job is changed as a result of negotiations or an arbitrator's decision, the revised salary shall be paid retroactively to the date the employee was
1
assigned to the new job. This same procedure will apply to Collective Agreement provisions pertinent to the introduction of a new operating or maintenance department into the Suncor Energy Inc., Oil Sands organization.
ARTICLE III - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Company shall retain and exercise all management functions, duties and responsibilities except as limited, restricted or precluded by this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - UNION RELATIONS
4.01	This Agreement shall be administered and applied in a fair and just manner to all employees. The parties further agree that there shall be no intimidation of and no discrimination against an employee either by the Company or by the Union, by reason of activity or lack of activity in, or in respect of the Union or by reason of sex, sexual orientation, race, creed, colour, national origin, political or marital status.
4.02	The Union agrees that, during the life of this Agreement, there will be no strike, slow-down or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout either complete or partial.
4.03	a) The Company agrees to recognize 2.0% of the total
bargaining unit employees as duly elected or appointed Union Stewards throughout the plant. Additionally up to 4 temporary Stewards may be appointed for periods not to exceed six (6) months, provided that the Company is notified in advance of the name(s) and area(s) of the appointeefs). The Company agrees to recognize only those Stewards whose names have been submitted in writing to the Company by the Union.
2
b)	The Company agrees to recognize certain committees to be comprised of Stewards included in (a) above, to participate in meetings as follows:
(i) Monthly Meetings: A committee normally composed of up to five (5) Union Stewards shall meet with Management monthly to discuss and settle matters falling within the scope of this Collective Agreement. Additional meetings may be called by either party giving notice to the other party.
ii)	Grievance Meetings: A grievance committee appointed or otherwise selected by the Union to assist and/or represent employees in the presentations of any grievance that may arise under this Collective Agreement, shall consist of no more than five (5) members of the Union.
iii)	Negotiating Meetings: The Union negotiating committee shall be composed of not more than one (1) Steward from each area of the plant. In the event that circumstances prevent the attendance of one Steward from each of the areas, then any five (S) Stewards, regardless of the area they represent, and as designated by the Union, shall constitute a legally comprised quorum for a particular negotiating meeting. Up to two (2) additional Stewards shall attend the meetings while negotiating their respective area notes, except during the negotiating of Master Maintenance Notes, when up to three (3) additional Stewards may attend. The Company will make arrangements to ensure that a participating Steward will not have to work a midnight shift before attending a negotiating meeting.
c)	Any designated Steward attending meetings as are envisaged under this Article, and which are held during his working hours, will suffer no loss in pay for time spent in such meetings.
3
d)	A Union Steward may, with the permission of his Supervisor, leave his regular duties to investigate grievances and perform other Union duties under the Collective Agreement.
e)	It is recognized that occasions may arise which require the attendance of an outside counsel at one of the meetings set out in (b) above. In such cases, the party requesting the presence of such advisor shall inform the other party of its desire, on a timely basis.
4.04	The Company will provide bulletin boards in suitable locations, which may be used by the Union in posting notices of Union activities.
4.05	a) The Company agrees to deduct once a month from the
salary due and payable to each employee covered by Article 2.01, an amount equal to the monthly Union dues and any special assessments as determined from time to time by the Union pursuant to its Constitution. The total amount of such dues deductions shall be remitted by the Company, together with a list of names of employees from whom the deductions were made, to the Treasurer of the Union forthwith after the deductions are made.
b)	The deduction of monthly dues constitutes a continuing condition of employment.
ARTICLE V - HOURS OF WORK
5.01	a) A work day is defined as the 24-hour period starting at 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. of the following calendar day.
b)	The work week shall be from 8:00 a.m. on Sunday to 8:00 a.m. on the following Sunday.
c)	The Company recognizes coffee breaks and lunch breaks, which will coincide with natural production breaks.
4
5.02 a)	"Day Employees" are defined in Article 5.03(a).
b)	"Shift Employees" are defined as those employees assigned to Shift #1, Shift #2, Shift #3 or Shift #4 schedules.
c)	"Continuous Shift employees" are defined as those employees assigned to a four shift, continuous work schedule.
5.03	a) Day Employees
i)	The normal work schedule for day employees shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m., with one twenty-minute break for lunch commencing between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, with Saturday and Sunday off.
ii)	The normal work schedule for day employees on a Compressed Work Week schedule shall be specified in Article 5.07 with one 15-minute lunch break commencing between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m.
iii)	In the event an employee is unable to receive such break for lunch by virtue of a work assignment by supervision on a particular day, such employee shall receive payment at the applicable overtime rate for the missed break.
b)	Shift Employees
Shift #1, Shift #2, Shift #3 and Shift #4 employees will work shift schedules as outlined in Article 5.07.
c)	Continuous Shift Employees
Employees assigned to continuous shift work will work according to schedules as established by agreement between the Union and the Company from time to time. Specific hours and days of work within these work schedules shall be designated by the assignment of an employee to a letter on a work schedule. An employee shall be reassigned to a different shift letter on the work schedule when work load, shift vacancies, and the safe and efficient operation of the plant requires it.
5
d)	In accordance with (a), (b) and (c) above, the normal work schedule shall be specified in Article 5.07.
e)	Should it become necessary to introduce a new schedule or permanently alter an existing schedule the new or altered schedule will be established by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
5.04	a) i) The Company will give each eight-hour continuous shift employee the opportunity to have at least one "long change" in each 28-day cycle, provided the employee has not changed his shift. Saturday and Sunday shall be included in such a "long change".
ii)	The Company will give each twelve hour continuous shift employee the opportunity to have at least one "long change" in every two 16-day cycles of shift schedules with 16 week cycles, in every two 12-day cycles of shift schedules with 12 week cycles or as otherwise specified in Progression Notes Appendix "B", provided the employee has not changed his shift.
b)	Beginning of cycles are defined in Article 5.07.
c)	i) 28-Day Cycle
If an employee is assigned to a different shift during the cycle as defined above, then for the purposes of earned days off, his cycle will continue on the shift to which he is transferred. If, at the completion of his new shift cycle, he has not received days off considering both part cycles in the ratio of one quarter (1/4) of the total number of calendar days in the period from the start of the cycle on his old shift to the end of the cycle on his new shift, then he will receive premium pay for the missed days off as defined in Article 6.01. This agreement is subject to the provisions of Article 6.11 re: pyramiding of overtime.
6
ii)	16 Week Cycle
If an employee is assigned to a different shift during the cycle as defined above, then for the purposes of earned days off, his cycle will continue on the shift to which he is transferred. If, at the completion of his working cycle, he has not received days off considering both part cycles in the ratio of one-half (1/2) of the total number of calendar days in the period from the start of the cycle on his old shift to the end of the cycle on his new shift, then he will receive premium pay for the missed days off as defined in Article 6.01. This agreement is subject to the provisions of Article 6.11 re: pyramiding of overtime.
d)	When employees are required to change to or from a day, shift or continuous shift work schedule, proportionate consideration will be given to earned days off as in (c) above.
5.05	a) Employees with compatible qualifications shall be allowed
shift exchanges, provided no overtime or penalty payments result and further provided that their Supervisor is advised at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance. Shift exchanges may not be arranged if they would result in an employee working more than twelve (12) consecutive hours.
b) Shift exchanges may not be arranged if they would result in an employee being absent for more than twelve (12) consecutive shifts. Mutuals are deemed to be consecutive if there is not a regularly scheduled shift worked between them.
5.06	The provisions of this Agreement respecting Compressed Work Week schedule shall constitute an overtime agreement pursuant to the Employment Standards Code. A Compressed Work Week schedule shall constitute normal hours of work and shall not involve overtime payments, with the exception of two (2) hours per week overtime averaged over the cycle in Article 5.07 E, F and G. If the daily hours of the schedule are exceeded, the excess daily hours shall be paid at overtime rates. If the days off of the schedule
7
are worked, such days worked will be paid at overtime rates. No additional claims for overtime related to the Compressed Work Week provisions of this Agreement, the Employment Standards Code, or Article 6, may be made by the employee.
5.07	Work Schedules
A.	DAY EMPLOYEE
40 hours per week
Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Saturday and Sunday off Weekly cycle starting Monday.
B.	SHIFT #2 EMPLOYEES
40 hours per week
Monday through Friday, Saturday and Sunday off
DAY SHIFT
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
AFTERNOON SHIFT
-	4:00 p.m. to 12 midnight NIGHT SHIFT
-	12 midnight - 8:00 a.m.
Weekly cycle starting Monday.
C.	CONTINUOUS SHIFT EMPLOYEES (28 DAY CYCLE)
average 42 hours/week
7 night shifts, two days off, 7 afternoon shifts, one day off,
7 day shifts, four days off DAY SHIFT
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
AFTERNOON SHIFT
-	4:00 p.m. to 12 midnight NIGHT SHIFT
-	12 midnight to 8:00 a.m.
28 day cycle starting first shift of the night shift period Overtime Agreements - per Employment Standards Code
8
D. DAY EMPLOYEES
i)	10 hour shifts-40 hours per week 4 days Tuesday to Friday
2	days off
4	days Monday to Thursday 4 days off
8:00 a.m. to 6:15 p.m.
2	week cycle starting on set of days starting Tuesday OR
ii)	8 and 12 hours shifts - 40 hours per week Monday through Friday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
-	two weeks Monday off Tuesday, Thursday
-	8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, Friday '
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Monday through Friday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
-	two weeks Monday, Wednesday
-	8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, Thursday -8:00 p.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Friday off.
Six week cycle starting Monday of the first five 8 hour day week
OR
iii)	8 and 12 hour shifts-40 hours per week Monday through Friday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
-	two weeks
Saturday and Sunday off Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
9
Wednesday
-	8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Saturday and Sunday off Monday, Tuesday, Thursday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Wednesday
-	8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Friday, Saturday and Sunday off
Four week cycle starting Monday following Friday off.
OR
iv)	8 and 12 hour shifts - 40 hours per week Two weeks Monday through Friday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. except Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
One week Monday to Thursday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Three week cycle starting Monday after Friday off.
OR
8 and 12 hour shifts - 40 hours per week Two weeks Monday through Friday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. except Tuesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
One week Monday to Thursday
-	8:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
Three week cycle starting Monday after Friday off.
The normal schedule will be day shift, however employees may be assigned to afternoon shift with five (5) calendar days notice without shift change penalty. Afternoon shift assignments will follow the same sequence of days on and off. 8-hour shifts will be 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. 12-hour shifts will be 4:00 p.m. to 4:00 a.m. Assignments to afternoon shift will be on a rotational basis and will not exceed three consecutive weeks.
10
E.	SHIFT #1 EMPLOYEES 12 HOUR SHIFT
- 42 hours per week average
i)	4 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4 days off
8 week cycle beginning set of days starting Sunday.
OR
ii)	3 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Wednesday to Friday
2	days off
4	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Monday to Thursday
5	days off and
3	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Monday to Wednesday 5 days off
4	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Tuesday to Friday 2 days off
2	week cycle beginning set of days starting Monday OR
iii)	4 days Monday to Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
5	days off
5 days Wednesday to Sunday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4	days off
5	days Friday to Tuesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
5 days off
4	week cycle beginning with the set of days starting on Monday
OR
iv)	4 days Tuesday to Friday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
5	days off
5 days Thursday to Monday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4 days off
11
5 days Saturday to Wednesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
5	days off
4 week cycle beginning with the set of days starting with Tuesday
F.	SHIFT #3 EMPLOYEES 12 HOUR SHIFTS
-	42 hours per week average
4 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Tuesday to Friday 3 days off
3	nights 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Tuesday to Thursday
4	days off
G.	CONTINUOUS SHIFT EMPLOYEES 12 HOUR SHIFTS
-	42 hours per week average
i) 4 nights 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
2	days off
4 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
6	days off
16 week cycle beginning first set of nights starting Sunday OR
4 days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
1 day off
4 nights 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
7	days off
16 week cycle beginning first set of days starting Sunday OR
3	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
3	nights 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
6	days off
12 week cycle beginning first set of days starting Sunday OR
12
ii) 4 nights 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
4	days off
4	days 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
4 days off
16 week cycle beginning first set of nights starting Sunday
H.	SHIFT #4 EMPLOYEES
8	AND 12 HOUR SHIFTS 40 hours per week Monday, Tuesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Friday, Saturday, Sunday off Weekly cycle beginning Monday
OR
Tuesday, Friday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Saturday, Sunday, Monday off Weekly cycle beginning Tuesday
OR
Monday, Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Tuesday, Wednesday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Friday, Saturday, Sunday off Weekly cycle beginning Monday
OR
Wednesday, Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, Friday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Saturday, Sunday, Monday off Weekly cycle beginning Tuesday
13
The Company shall have the right to temporarily alter schedules for Turnarounds, Outages, or for unforeseeable and exceptional circumstances. It is the Company's intent that these changes will be made following consultation with Area Steward(s).
5.08	a) The Company will make every effort to maintain a stable schedule for every employee.
b)	Temporary shift vacancies shall not be filled through the application of temporary shift changes.
ARTICLE VI - OVERTIME
6.01	a) Any work in excess of an employee's work day or in excess
of that included as part of his work schedule or all hours worked on a statutory holiday or included as part of his work schedule when in excess of forty (40) hours per week, when averaged over the employees shift cycle shall be deemed overtime and paid at two (2) times the employee's base hourly rate.
b)	The provisions of Article 6.02 (a) shall not apply if shift relief is delayed less than fifteen (15) minutes into a twelve (12) hour break.
c)	For Compressed Work Week schedules the Company will implement voluntary standby procedures in accordance with the Progression Notes Appendix "B". The Company reserves the right to schedule employees for standby if the voluntary standby procedures do not supply sufficient personnel to safely and efficiently operate the plant.
6.02	a) If an employee's schedule is such that he does not have a
minimum of a twelve (12) hour break between work periods, he will work his scheduled hours and will receive two (2) times his base hourly rate, until he has had a minimum of a twelve hour break. However, for reasons of safety only, his supervisor may instruct him to take a twelve (12) hour break. This paragraph does not apply to "call-outs".
14
b)	For employees on twelve (12) hour overtime agreements the specified breaks in 6.02(a) shall be read as ten and one-quarter (101A) hours.
6.03	a) A Day or Shift employee who has returned to his residence
and is called for duty and who reports for work before or after his regular shift shall receive the greater of:
i)	The applicable overtime rate, or,
ii)	A minimum of four (4) hours' pay computed at the applicable overtime rate.
b)	An employee who is called for duty under (a) above will not be required to perform non-essential work during the callout.
c)	If a call-out ends less than eight (8) hours prior to a Day or Shift employee's next regular shift, he shall take an eight (8) hour break with no loss of regular pay. An employee shall not be required to return to work on his regular shift for less than two (2) hours.
d)	If a call-out extends up to the commencement of his regular shift, a Day or Shift employee shall normally take an eight (8) hour break. However, if requested to work after the commencement of his regular shift, he will receive the applicable overtime rate for the hours of his regular shift that he works. Following completion of his call-out work, he shall take an eight (8) hour break, with no loss of regular pay for the remaining hours of his regular shift.
6.04	a) An employee who is required to work more than two (2)
hours beyond his regular stopping time and has not had eight (8) hours notice of this overtime prior to his shift shall be supplied with a suitable hot meal which will be eaten on Company time. For overtime scheduled with less than eight (8) hours prior notice, the Company will supply hot meals. These meals will be furnished thereafter at approximate four (4) hour intervals throughout the remaining period of continuous work.
15
b) Suitable hot meals will be delivered to employees assigned to duties, which require the employee to remain at his place of work. Other employees will be allowed to eat their meals at the camp kitchen.
6.05	When an employee is required to make a special trip in order to work overtime or when he is "called out" at other than regular shift change times, transportation will be provided at Company expense.
a)	The Company will schedule buses, provide special transportation, or reimburse an employee who is requested and who agrees to provide his own transportation in connection with an overtime assignment.
Company transportation will be provided to the normal bus stops, or to an employee's home in Fort McMurray where possible when unscheduled transportation is provided.
b)	An employee who is called out or who works a sixteen (16) hour shift upon request shall be granted a room in camp, to allow him to obtain maximum rest during the period before his next shift. A hot meal will be provided in camp prior to the start of his next shift. A second meal will be provided at the next regular meal time as provided in Article 6.04. All of the above will be provided at no cost to the employee.
c)	A special trip with respect to overtime work is defined as a trip to or from work, either before or after an overtime assignment, where there is no regular bus transportation scheduled within a reasonable period of time after the employee is called to report for work, or after completion of the overtime shift.
6.06	If an employee is assigned to work on a schedule different from his regular schedule and his starting time on the new schedule is more than one hour sooner or later than the starting time under his schedule immediately prior to the change, he shall be paid two (2) times his base hourly rate for the first shift worked of the new shift schedule, unless the change is made:
16
a)	As an accommodation to or for the convenience of the employee.
b)	As a result of the employee being upgraded or promoted on a permanent basis.
c)	In returning an employee to his original schedule within 28 days, which he worked prior to the change.
d)	So that the employee may attend off-the-job training, i.e. in class, job related training, or plant protection, or safety training.
6.07	No employee working on shift shall leave his working area until
properly relieved, without the permission of Supervision.
6.08	a) Consistent with Article 7.01 and within the six month
periods ending June 30 and December 31, annually, the Company will make every reasonable effort to distribute overtime work equally among employees, either within the pay classification where the overtime is required, if move up is not possible, or as otherwise specified in the Progression Notes, Appendix " B". Article 6.08 (a) shall not be applicable to employees in progressions where a "chit" system is utilized for the assignment of overtime.
b)	The Company will post overtime lists on all relevant area bulletin boards bi-weekly.
c)	Refusal of overtime shall be considered as overtime worked for record purposes and will be recorded on the bi-weekly overtime list.
d)	For record purposes, upon permanent entry into a classification, or area as specified in the Progression Notes, an employee shall be assigned the current average overtime hours of all other employees within that classification or area.
17
e)	For record purposes, an employee who is absent from his regular duties on leave of absence or due to illness/injury for more than sixty (60) consecutive calendar days shall be assigned the current average overtime hours for all other employees within the classification or area upon his return.
f)	Any distribution of overtime, found to be in violation of the provision of the Collective Agreement, will be resolved through mutual agreement between the wronged employee and their supervisor. Such agreement is limited to an overtime assignment of equal duration, at a time acceptable to both the employee and the supervisor, not more than forty-five (45) calendar days after the original overtime assignment giving rise to the claim or the date such original assignment was determined to be in violation, whichever is later. In the event the employee and the supervisor are unable to reach agreement to satisfy this forty-five (45) day limitation, the matter will be deemed to be settled and the employee will be recorded refused overtime for the number of hours in question. This forty-five (45) day period will be extended by the number of shifts an employee is absent from regular duties on an approved leave of four (4) or more consecutive days.
Such overtime assignment will not result in another employee being denied overtime as per the Chit Systems in Appendix "B" and "C".
g)	In accordance with the chit systems in Appendix B and C where two (2) or more employee's overtime hours are equal, the employee with the greatest area seniority will be offered the overtime first.
6.09	If an employee reports for an overtime assignment which has been cancelled or shortened with less than eight (8) hours prior notice, he will be permitted to perform an alternate assignment of equivalent hours on that day.
6.10	An employee’s overtime shall be calculated to the next quarter hour, in accordance with Article 6.01.
18
6.11	In no case shall payments be pyramided or paid under more than one provision of this agreement unless specifically provided for.
ARTICLE VII - SALARIES
7.01	All employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid on a monthly salary basis in accordance with Appendix "A" appended to this Agreement. The monthly salary of employees has been adjusted in the salary schedule to include shift differential and average shift overtime worked as part of the work schedules as defined in Article 5.07.
7.02	Shift differentials in accordance with Appendix "A" are included in the monthly salary of all Continuous Shift, Shift #2, and Shift #3 employees. Shift Differentials in accordance with Appendix "A" will be paid to Shift #1 and Shift #4 employees for all straight time hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Additionally, shift differentials will be paid to Day employees for eight (8) or more consecutive overtime hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., to Shift #1 and Shift #4 employees for all overtime hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. and to Continuous Shift, Shift #2 and Shift #3 employees for all overtime hours worked.
7.03	While an employee is temporarily assigned to a higher classification for other than his own training, he shall receive the salary for this higher classification in accordance with Appendix "A". Upon permanent promotion to a higher classification, an employee shall receive the salary for this higher classification in accordance with Appendix "A".
7.04	Employees who are temporarily assigned to a lower classification will have their regular rate of pay maintained.
7.05	Amendments to an employee's time sheet shall not be permitted without consultation with the employee concerned.
19
7.06	Any pay due an employee as a result of an error in his pay deposit or statement shall be made available through direct deposit to the employees normal account within ninety-six (96) hours, upon the employee's request.
7.07	The Company will provide qualification pay when the qualification should have occurred if training is delayed by training backlogs.
ARTICLE VIII - VACATIONS
8.01	An employee after one year of continuous service shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay. A similar vacation shall be taken each calendar year thereafter. During the first year of employment, an employee may elect to take one (1) week of his earned vacation after six (6) months of continuous service; in which event however, he will be eligible for only the remaining two (2) weeks of vacation with pay after the completion of that first year of continuous service. No employee shall receive more than three (3) weeks vacation in one (1) calendar year unless he qualifies under Articles 8.02 or 8.12.
8.02	a) During the calendar year in which an employee completes
ten (10) years of continuous service the employee shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation. A similar vacation shall be taken each calendar year thereafter.
b)	During the calendar year in which an employee completes eighteen (18) years of continuous service, the employee shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation. A similar vacation shall be taken each calendar year thereafter.
c)	During the calendar year in which an employee completes twenty-five (25) years of continuous service, he shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation. A similar vacation shall be taken each calendar year thereafter.
8.03	Employees will indicate vacation period preference in advance of December 1st of each year for the following calendar year's vacation and vacation schedules for all earned vacation hours shall be posted by the Company by January 1st of each year.
20
8.04	a) An employee who qualifies for vacation in accordance with
Articles 8.01 or 8.02 will receive their regular salary while on vacation. In addition an employee may qualify for a vacation pay adjustment based on the following. Total vacation pay will be based on a percentage of an employee's regular salary as recorded for all time worked during 26 bi-weekly pay periods preceding the last pay period of the calendar year in which the vacation is taken. This percentage will equal 0.05% for each hour of vacation taken between the 25th pay day of the previous year and the 25th pay day of the current year. If the result of this calculation is a sum greater than the regular salary paid as vacation taken during the same period the difference will be paid on the 26th pay day of the year as vacation pay adjustment.
b)	The company will include with the 26th pay statement the calculation of vacation pay adjustment.
c)	An employee may request in writing, at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the commencement of his vacation, to receive a vacation pay advance on the pay day immediately preceding the commencement of his vacation. The Company will recover any vacation advance in the pay period(s) immediately following the receipt of such advance.
8.05	Should an employee become disabled as a result of sickness or accident immediately prior to commencing his vacation, or if he becomes disabled during his vacation, his vacation, or part vacation, shall be rescheduled in such a manner that he shall not lose his vacation by reason of such disability. In order to have his vacation rescheduled, such employee must notify his Supervisor of said disability as soon as possible. He must also provide proof of hospitalization, or submit a Doctor's certificate. The basic intent is to ensure that an employee receives his earned vacation where, because of a bona fide medical reason this may not have been possible. Under no circumstances is this section to be construed as an opportunity for premium pay in lieu of the earned vacation pay.
21
8.06	When a recognized holiday or holidays fall on one of an employee's scheduled vacation days, he shall take an extra day or days vacation with pay, to be taken either at the beginning or end of the vacation if scheduled, or at another time mutually agreeable to him and the Company.
8.07	An employee who is eligible for three (3) weeks vacation in a calendar year may split his vacation into three (3) parts. An employee who is eligible for four (4) or more weeks vacation in a calendar year may split his vacation into four (4) parts.
8.08	Vacation allowance on termination shall be as follows:
a)	In the case of an employee who has not become eligible for an annual vacation, the employee shall receive an amount equal to four (4) percent of his base salary for the period from his date of hire to his termination date.
b)	In the case of an employee who has become entitled to a vacation in accordance with Articles 8.01 or 8.02, he shall receive vacation pay based on 0.05% of his accumulated base salary for each hour of vacation for which he is eligible, and as calculated for all straight time hours worked from his anniversary date in the year in which he last took vacation, less any vacation pay already received during the calendar year in which he terminates.
8.09	a) Up to fourteen percent (14%) of the work force in one area
will be allowed off on vacation at any time. At the Company's option, this fourteen percent may be increased in consultation with Area Steward(s). Management and Area Steward(s) may also agree on variations which result in a distribution of employees allowed off that varies month to month or for defined periods of the year. Fractional numbers of employees will be adjusted to the next whole number.
22
i)	Notwithstanding (a) above, up to seven percent (7%) of the workforce in any one area will be allowed off on vacation at one time during a scheduled turnaround. Other arrangements may be made with mutual agreement between Area Management and Area Steward(s). Full turnaround period will consist of the ten (10) days prior to turnaround, the scheduled turnaround and the ten (10) days after the scheduled start-up date.
b)	The manager and/or supervisor will define in writing the combination of job positions he will allow to be on vacation at the same time. Prior to finalizing the combination, the manager and/or supervisor will review the document with the area job steward. This will be posted by October 1st of each year for the following calendar year's vacations.
c)	Once a vacation has been agreed upon by the Company and the employee, it can be changed only by:
i)	The employee with thirty (30) calendar days written notice to his area manager and/or supervisor. In case of layoff, the employee will have the option of electing to take his vacation prior to the layoff taking effect.
ii)	The Company in cases of emergency. In such cases the Company will notify the area job steward of the need to cancel vacation. The need to schedule relief coverage at overtime rates shall not be considered just cause for denying an employee his scheduled vacation.
iii)	If within 30 days of a scheduled vacation, a serious injury or illness occurs that requires the employee to change his vacation schedule, the employee may change his vacation.
d)	In the event that an employee's work schedule has been changed after the vacation list has been posted, the Company agrees the employee will have the option of:
23
i)	taking his vacation as posted;
ii)	changing his vacation to fit into the new schedule, i.e., if such vacation was to be taken in conjunction with a "long change" on the old vacation schedule, the employee may rearrange his vacation to fit in conjunction with a "long change" on the new schedule.
e)	Where work schedule changes have occurred, no other employee will be required to change his vacation due to such change.
f)	In the event that an employee wishes to change his vacation period, no other employee's vacation period will be changed as a result, except where the employees concerned and supervision mutually agree to such change.
g)	An employee will not be required to work any overtime on scheduled days off which fall in conjunction with his vacation.
8.10	a) i) Seniority for purposes of indicating vacation period preference shall be defined as the number of vacation points accumulated by each employee in his department as of October 1st of each year. Such vacation points shall continue to accumulate from year to year as outlined in (d) below,
ii)	Within the constraints of other sections in Article VIII, employees shall be eligible to select their annual vacation periods in order of most assigned vacation points receiving first choice, with remaining choices allowed in declining vacation point sequence. An employee electing to split his vacation into more than one (1) part must select his second part after all other employees have selected their first choice. Similarly, he must select his third part after all other employees have selected their second choice.
24
iii)	In the event that two (2) or more employees in a department have the same number of vacation points, vacation period selection among such employees will be allowed in order of the longest respective Company service dates.
b)	For purposes of this Article 8.10 only, vacation "primetime" shall be defined as the annual period of July 1 to August 31 inclusive. "Vacation days" shall be defined as the actual earned days of annual vacation, excluding the travel days, holidays, banked holidays, mutual changes and scheduled days off.
c)	By October 10th of each year the Company shall post a list in each department which will indicate the total number of vacation points assigned to each employee.
d)	On October 1 st of each year, employees in each department shall receive or lose vacation points as follows:
i)	One (1) service point shall be added to each employee's accumulated total points,
ii)	Each employee who took twenty-four (24) vacation hours or less during "prime time" in the previous twelve (12) months shall receive one (1) vacation point bonus.
iii)	An employee shall lose vacation points, based on the total number of vacation hours taken during prime time in the previous twelve (12) months, in accordance with the following: Twenty-five (25) to sixty (60) vacation hours loses one (1) point. Sixty-one (61) to ninety-six (96) vacation hours loses two (2) points. Ninety-seven (97) to one hundred and forty-four (144) vacation hours - loses three (3) points. One hundred and forty-five (145) to one hundred and eighty (180) vacation hours loses four (4) points. Over one hundred and eighty (180) vacation hours -loses five (5) points.
25
e)	i) Upon employment, each new employee shall receive the lower of zero (0) points or one (1) point less than the lowest individual point total of all employees as of October 1st preceding his hire date. Thereafter, they shall receive additional points in accordance with (d) above.
ii)	If an employee transfers from one department to another within the bargaining unit, he shall carry his accumulated vacation point total to his new department.
iii)	If an employee transfers to a department within the bargaining unit from a position outside of the bargaining unit he shall, immediately upon entry into his new department, receive vacation points as per
8.10	(e)(i) above. Thereafter, he shall receive or lose vacation points in accordance with (d) above.
8.11	For the purpose of scheduling vacations, supervisors' vacations shall not be taken into account.
8.12	Employees entitled to three (3) weeks of vacation may elect to defer one (1) week of vacation. Employees entitled to four (4) or more weeks of vacation may elect to defer two (2) weeks of vacation. Deferred vacation will be taken in the following calendar year outside of the period July and August inclusive.
8.13	a) A week of vacation is defined as forty (40) scheduled
working hours.
b) A day of vacation is defined as eight (8) scheduled working
hours. Vacation will be scheduled in full shifts.
8.14	If, at the end of an employee's vacation entitlement, a partial shift of vacation is remaining, the employee will be granted a leave of absence without pay for the remaining hours of said shift to complete his vacation.
26
8.15	Upon completion of one (1) year of continuous service, twenty-four hours of travel time with pay at the employee's base hourly rate will be granted annually to each employee in conjunction with his annual vacation.
ARTICLE IX - HOLIDAYS
9.01	a) The following holidays will be granted to all employees
covered by this agreement:
New Year's Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Remembrance Day
Canada Day	Christmas Day
Family Day
b)	Additionally, employees on schedules 5.07 (a), (b), (c), (d)(ii), (d)(iii) and (d)(iv) will be granted the following holidays:
August Civic Holiday	Boxing Day
c)	A floating holiday announced by the Company in October each year for the following year will be granted to all employees on schedules 5.07 (a), (b), (c) and (d). For religious observances, an employee may request that his floating holiday be scheduled on a different date than the annual designated date. Such requests shall not be unreasonably denied.
9.02	a) Shift #1, Shift #3, Shift #4 and Continuous Shift employees
will observe holidays on the day on which they fall.
b) Shift #2 and Day employees will observe holidays on the day on which they fall, where that day is included in their work schedule. Where the holiday falls on a Shift #2 or Day employee's scheduled day off the employee shall observe the holiday on a scheduled day of work. For holidays falling on a Friday or a Saturday that day shall be observed on the proceeding scheduled day of work. For holidays falling on a Sunday or Monday that day shall be observed on the following scheduled day of work.
27
c) For purposes of determining the date of a holiday under Article 9.01, the day proclaimed by Government legislation shall apply.
9.03	If a recognized holiday falls on a day an employee is scheduled to work, he will work his shift that day and receive, in addition to his regular salary, pay at applicable overtime rates for all hours worked.
9.04	If a recognized holiday falls on a Shift #1, Shift #3, Shift #4 or a continuous shift employee's scheduled day off, the employee will receive, in addition to his regular salary, one shift's pay calculated at his base hourly rate.
9.05	a) Notwithstanding the provisions in Articles 9.02, 9.03 and
9.04, an employee will be paid a holiday credit for each of the agreed upon statutory holidays, only provided:
i)	if his schedule is such that the employee works on the holiday, or;
ii)	if his schedule is such that he does not work on the holiday, but the employee works his last scheduled shift or day before the holiday and his first scheduled shift or day after the holiday or;
iii)	if his schedule is such that he does not work on the holiday, but the employee works either his last scheduled shift or day before the holiday or his first scheduled shift or day after the holiday, and has an excused absence for the other day mentioned.
b) An employee will, however, be entitled to holiday pay if absent on the holiday when scheduled to work, if his shift is covered by another employee with a mutual shift change agreement. The provisions of Article 9.06 will apply.
9.06	In the event that a Shift #1, Shift #3, Shift #4 or continuous shift employee is required to work on a statutory holiday, or if the holiday falls on a scheduled day off, the employee may elect to receive a regularly scheduled work day off, on the following basis:
28
a)	i) Any seventy-two (72) statutory holiday hours per year
may be banked to be scheduled at other than the period of July and August. The statutory holidays so banked would be the Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Family Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, New Year's Day and Good Friday. Additionally, employees not on a Compressed Work Week schedule may bank August Civic Holiday and Boxing Day. A maximum of one hundred and twenty (120) banked statutory holiday hours may be carried from year to year at an employee's option.
ii) The Company agrees to publish the current number of accumulated banked statutory holiday hours, defined in (i) above on the bi-weekly pay statement of each employee covered by Article 2.01.
b)	If there is open time available during the period of July and August, after vacation schedules have been posted, employees may schedule some or all banked statutory holiday credits to fit these open periods, in accordance with Article 9.06 (e).
c)	Employees must elect, in writing, thirty (30) days in advance, to bank the specified statutory holidays.
d)	Notwithstanding Articles 6.01,9.03 and 9.04, payment for these banked holidays or portion thereof, at the time the holiday occurs, will be at one (1) times pay, plus regular salary for those reserved holidays worked, and at regular salary only with no premium for those reserved holidays falling on an employee's scheduled days off.
e)	Employees must give their Supervisor at least three (3) working days written notice or five (5) calendar days notice of their desire to debank a day of their banked statutory holidays.
If the reguest is done in writing, the employee will receive a written reply as soon as possible; but no later that 6 working days, or 9 calendar days from date request was submitted.
29
If the request is done verbally, the employee will receive a verbal reply as soon as possible, but no later that 6 working days, or 9 calendar days from date request was submitted.
The request shall be granted under the following conditions:
i)	subject to 9.06(a);
ii)	operations not being unduly restricted;
iii)	the job combinations allowed off at any one time will be the same as defined in 8.09(b).
f)	The provisions of (a), (b), (d) and (e) above, inclusive, shall also apply to a Day or Shift #2 employee who is required to work on a holiday, subject to the employee electing in writing, in advance or on the holiday, to bank the holiday.
g)	Subject to 9.06(e) debanking of statutory holidays shall be on a first come, first served basis.
ARTICLE X - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
10.01	Individual employees may, with the Company's consent in writing, obtain a leave of absence without pay. The written consent shall state the dates on which the leave of absence begins and ends.
10.02	In the case of death in the immediate family of an employee, such employee will be granted three (3) working days off with no loss of pay. For employees not covered by an overtime agreement an additional two (2) working days will be granted with no loss of pay if travel out of town is required. For employees covered by overtime agreements an additional one (1) working day will be granted with no loss of pay if travel out of town is required. If circumstances are such as to make this impractical, additional time off may be granted subject to Company approval. Immediate family includes:
(1) Spouse (including common-law or same-sex)
30
(2)	Parent (including step-parent or foster parent) of the employee or the employee's spouse		
(3)	Child (including step or foster child) of the employee or the employee's spouse		
(4)	Grandparents (including step grandparents) employee or the employee's spouse	of	the
(5)	Grandchildren (including step grandchildren) employee or the employee's spouse	of	the
(6)	Sister/Brother (including in-laws)		
(7)	Daughter/Son (including in-laws)		
10.03	An employee who receives a subpoena for jury or witness duty will be granted a leave of absence for that purpose provided the Company is properly notified. The employee will receive an amount of pay from the Company, which when added to his jury duty or witness pay, will equal his regular salary while on such duty.
10.04	The Company agrees to grant leaves of absence without pay to members of the Union for the business purposes of the Union and to attend Union functions. Application for approval of such leave shall be made by one or more of the Executive Officers of the Union, who will endeavour to request such leave at least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the shift(s) for which the leave is requested.
10.05	In the event that an employee is recruited for fighting forest fires, an amount will be paid by the Company which, when added to the fire fighting pay received from the Government equals the employee's normal salary.
31
ARTICLE XI - PROMOTION, SENIORITY, TRANSFERS, TRAINING AND PROGRESSION CHARTS
11.01	a) i) Permanent progression within any area shall be in accordance with progression charts and notes. Appendix "B". Qualification is based on the employee's knowledge of the theories, procedures and equipment related to the job in question. The Company undertakes to evaluate the qualifications of employees in a fair and just manner. The Company agrees that all employees will be given every opportunity to qualify for the next higher jobs within the minimum time periods, as set out in the progression charts. Employees shall be provided with special instruction, instructional material and/or any other advice or means for self-improvement. If an employee has not qualified for the next higher job because the Company has not given him the opportunity to train within the minimum time period, the Company agrees that within a further ninety (90) day period the employee shall receive the opportunity to train and qualify. Providing the employee qualifies during this ninety (90) day period he shall receive his wage increment retroactive to the date of completion of the minimum time period as outlined in Appendix "B".
ii)	When a permanent vacancy occurs the most senior man in the next lower classification or phase will be given the job provided he is qualified for move up or phase progression. In the event that it is found that an employee has not sufficient qualification for move up or phase progression he will be informed as to the areas in which he is expected to improve and will be given extra assistance in those areas. If time is such that it would not be practical for re-evaluation of said employee before the vacant job must be filled, the next most senior employee will be given the job, subject to the same conditions. It is agreed that the
32
senior employee will be given the same opportunity for all subsequent vacancies in the next higher classification or phase. However, if the senior employee, providing he meets the certification requirements where required as outlined in Appendix "B", has not been given the opportunity to train for the job, the position will be filled on a temporary basis for up to thirty (30) working days, during which time the senior employee will be given the opportunity to train and qualify, iii) Pay classification seniority will be the governing factor to determine move up, however if pay classification seniority is the same, the qualified employee with the most area seniority will be given the job. If the area seniority is the same, then the qualified employee with the most Company seniority will be given the job. Pay classification or area seniority begins on the date an employee is given a permanent assignment in the pay classification, phase or area. If there is no one qualified in the given pay classification, phase or area, then persons in the next lower pay classification or phase will become eligible. An employee may, with the approval of the Area Superintendent, decline a permanent move up. In such case his rate of pay will be fixed at his currently assigned position rate in accordance with Appendix "B". This agreement will remain in effect until cancelled by either party with 30 days written notice. The date of cancellation will determine the employees pay classification seniority for subsequent progression.
b)	Move-ups caused by temporary vacancies as well as training for the next job shall be in accordance with the Progression Charts and Notes for each area.
c)	Temporary shift vacancies will be filled by the next most senior employee on the shift concerned, or as outlined in Appendix "B", provided the employee has sufficient
33
training. If it is determined that a temporary job opening will last in excess of thirty (30) days, it shall be considered as a permanent job opening and shall be filled by the normal procedure as defined in 11.01 (a) except as follows:
i)	When filling job vacancies on a temporary basis, resulting from vacations, injury, sickness, leave of absence, training or emergency, the temporary procedure may apply beyond thirty (30) days.
ii)	Specific projects of limited duration, not to exceed six (6) months, provided the Union is notified of such specific project.
d)	When two or more employees begin employment on the same day, the order of Company seniority will be established at that time by a draw in the presence of all employees concerned or in the presence of a union representative.
e)	It is the Company's intent that, when the equipment or plant area is in operation, all shift positions will be manned. It is also the intent that when the equipment or plant area is not in operation, but is ready and available for operation, and it is evident that it may be required to operate during a shift, then in the event any employee is absent, move-up will be made to man each position.
f)	Summer student employees will receive move-up, overtime and promotional opportunities only after all employees hired into permanent position.
11.02	Company policy regarding educational assistance is included in the
Suncor, Inc. Benefits Package.
11.03	This provision does not apply to successful applicant for
apprenticeship positions.
a)	In the event an employee whose pay classification is above the rank of Trainee transfers of his own volition to another area, his salary will be adjusted to the greater of the rate of pay for the job to which he transfers or to the "H" rate of
34
pay. An employee who transfers at a rate of pay below "H" rate will maintain his rate of pay. However, on such transfer, he shall be established at the Trainee or equivalent start level in his new department or area, and his classification and area seniority will begin on the day of his transfer.
b)	An employee who transfers into a labourer's position will have his salary reduced to "K" rate. He will receive wage increases as per Appendix "A".
11.04	Off-The-Job Training
The Company encourages participation in all forms of off-the-job training such as Company sponsored courses, correspondence courses, or stationary engineering studies. These are aids to increase ability but they are not requirements for any job classification in any area, except as specifically provided elsewhere in this Agreement.
11.05	Employees shall be probationary for the first four hundred and eighty (480) working hours. After successful completion of his probationary period, the employee's seniority shall be dated from the day his employment began.
11.06	Seniority lists will be posted at least every three (3) months. Distribution will consist of the employee's classification seniority, Area seniority and Company seniority.
11.07	a) Non-bargaining unit employees shall not perform work
normally assigned to employees within the bargaining unit to the extent of denying an employee in the bargaining unit the opportunity for a job or promotion. It is not the Company's intent that non-bargaining unit personnel perform work normally assigned to bargaining unit personnel, on an ongoing basis. It is recognized that there will be occasions such as, in emergency situations, for teaching or demonstrations, in experimental and developmental work, critical start-up and shutdown, or to improve productivity and effectiveness of the plant, that it
35
may be necessary from time to time for non-bargaining unit employees to do work in co-operation with bargaining unit employees.
b)	The use of contractor's employees to supplement bargaining unit work will not cause the layoff of any employee in the bargaining unit.
c)	The company will inform the Local President or designate in writing of any use of contractor's employees that will be of at least 10 days in duration and provide the following information:
i)	The nature of and reasons for the work being
contracted out.	.
ii)	The expected duration of the contract.
iii)	The anticipated number of contractor's employees to be involved.
d)	When the Company retains contractor's employees to supplement the work of bargaining unit employees and where work is not continuous with a regular shift, the Company will offer overtime to employees who have submitted chits before the overtime work is assigned to a contractor's employee.
e)	Where there is any issue arising out of the use of contractor's employees or contracting out activity, the company will meet directly with the Local President to resolve. If the matter cannot be resolved, it will be referred to a Senior VP quarterly meeting or as required.
f)	The company will provide listings of all contracting out activity in an area upon request of the Local President.
11.08	Before the Company seeks candidates from outside the Bargaining Unit, preference shall be given to senior qualified employees who have a minimum of one (1) year Area seniority, in accordance with Article 11.06, in the area he is transferring from, and have applied pursuant to the procedures below.
36
a)	The Company shall post notices of any permanent vacancies on designated job vacancy bulletin boards, and shall send a copy of each posting to the Union Office. Such posting shall contain qualification requirements, rate of pay for the job, date of posting, actual posting expiry date, and date for contact of applicants.
b)	The Company agrees to receive written applications for transfer from employees for a minimum of eight (8) days from the date of the posting. Applications must include a phone number where they may be reached on the second business day following the posting expiry date. Employees contacted will have twenty-four (24) hours to respond to the job offer. An applicant who is not available for contact or who declines the offer will not be permitted to apply for the same job for the balance of the calendar year. Employees may file standing applications with Suncor Energy Inc. Employment Office for a specific job opportunity. Such applications will be valid for the calendar year in which they are submitted.
c)	A successful job applicant shall be released to his new job as soon as possible but in any event not later than thirty (30) working days after the closing of the job posting. In the event the successful applicant's home area decides to fill the resulting vacancy within fourteen (14) calendar days of being notified then the standing applications on file that date will be the applicants for this resulting vacancy.
d)	The Company shall notify each unsuccessful employee of the reasons why he was not selected for the posted job vacancy.
e)	Employees may apply for internal apprenticeship postings with a minimum of 6 months Area seniority.
f)	The 'request for re-assignment' process that exists in some progressions is integrated with this process. The reassignment process is activated when a job posting occurs. Request for re-assignments are valid for that calendar year and the interested employee's rights to re-assign are equally affected if they decline a re-assignment.
37
(A process flow chart is set out in Appendix "E". In addition the parties may refer to the original memorandum signed July 11,2001 to support a claim under Article 11.08)
11.09	Any employee who accepts a promotion or transfer out of the Bargaining Unit in excess of one thousand and forty (1040) accumulated working hours per contract year shall be notified by the Company of his loss of bargaining unit seniority and may only re-enter the Bargaining Unit at the trainee level. Any overtime worked will be recorded on the bi-weekly overtime list. During this period he may be reverted to his former position.
ARTICLE XII - LAYOFF AND DISCHARGE
12.01	a) The Company agrees to provide the Union with six (6) months' notice of a plant closure, partial plant closure or other workforce reduction caused by changes in working methods, technological change or automation and/or facilities which will involve the lay-off of any person covered by Article 2.01 during the life of this Agreement.
b) Senior employees displaced as a result of such change will be given the opportunity to transfer to any department in the operation where there is an opening, if they satisfy the basic requirements for the position. If retraining is required to fill the open position, the Company will provide such training where possible, or co-operate with government retraining departments to provide such training in order that the displaced employee may qualify to continue in the employ of the Company. Employees who remain in the employ of the Company will have their regular rate of pay maintained until permanently reassigned to their new job. Employees who are permanently reassigned will have their regular salary maintained until they qualify for a higher rate or until subsequent adjustments in regular salary rates qualify the employees for an increase. For this maintenance of rate provision to apply, employees who are permanently reassigned must meet the progression requirements in accordance with this agreement.
38
c)	In the event it is not possible to reassign the employee to other useful employment in the operation, then on severance, the employee will receive severance pay based on the greater of:
i)	four weeks pay multiplied by 1.15; or
ii)	two weeks' pay plus two weeks pay for each year of Continuous Service multiplied by 1.15, provided in either case the employee has at least one (1) year of Continuous Service with the Company. Severance pay for a partial year of service will be calculated on a prorated basis. A weeks' pay shall equal 40 hours at the employee's base hourly rate.
12.02	a) In the event that it is necessary for the Company to reduce the working force, the lay-off shall be made by the Company in the reverse order of Company seniority within the trade or progression concerned within each Department of the plant, providing employees retained are qualified to do the work remaining. However, in the event of lay-off in a trade or progression common to more than one Department, then the junior of the qualified employees affected will be laid off regardless of the department, with the remaining employees being transferred to fill the resulting vacancies.
b)	i) If an employee who has transferred from one department to another while employed by the company is to be laid off, he may exercise his Company seniority to displace the junior employee in the trade or progression where he worked in his last previous department provided the junior employee has less company seniority and has the least company seniority in the trade or progression in his last previous department and provided he is qualified to fill the position.
39
ii) Employees who are not able to retain employment through (b)(i) above may use their qualifications and seniority to displace the employee who has less Company Seniority and who has the least Company Seniority in any entry level position provided that no more than twenty-five (25%) percent of such employees in an area are displaced. For the purpose of this provision, entry-level positions are Labourer, Trainee, Warehouse Technician, and Mine Operator. In the case of Mine Operators, the Company reserves the right to phase in the displacement of a large number of operators if to do otherwise would not be in the best interest of the business. In the case of Labourers, there are no restrictions on displacement.
c)	i) The recall of employees will be in the reverse order of layoff, provided the employee has not been laid off for more than twelve (12) months and further provided the employee(s) recalled are qualified to perform the work available.
ii)	Employee who decline a Recall for work expected to last less than one hundred and twenty (120) Calendar Days will not lose their position on the Recall List because of declining.
iii)	Employees on the Recall List are responsible to inform the Company of their whereabouts so that they may be contacted for Recall. The Company will notify the employee by telephone. Failing that, the Company will notify the employee by Registered Mail or other form of delivery which demonstrates the attempt to contact was made at the last known address of the employee and a copy of the notices to be sent to the Union.
iv)	The employee has forty-eight (48) hours to respond to contact by telephone and must report for work within an additional seven (7) days or some longer period if longer notice can be given by the Company. The employee has fourteen (14) days from the date
40
a Registered or similar Letter of Notice is dispatched from the Company in which to respond and must report for work within an additional seven (7) days or some longer period if longer notice can be given by the Company.
d)	For the purpose of "continuous service", an employee recalled will be deemed to have continuous service.
e)	An employee who accepts recall to other than the position that he held prior to layoff will retain his position on the recall list until such time as he has had an opportunity to return to the position held prior to layoff, provided the employee has not been on the recall list for more than twelve (12) months.
12.03	For the purposes of layoff the date and time of notification of layoff shall be deemed the commencement of layoff and the date and time of notification of recall shall be deemed the official time of the recall regardless of which shift a recalled employee actually works in accordance with regular work schedules.
12.04	In the event that any classification or position is cancelled for any reason and the employee in that classification is lowered to a lower classification, he will maintain his regular salary.
12.05	Should an employee accept an opportunity to transfer to another position rather than be laid off, the employee will have his regular rate of pay maintained until he qualified for a higher rate or until subsequent adjustments in regular rates of pay qualify the employee for an increase. For this maintenance of rate provision to apply, an employee who is permanently reassigned must meet the progression requirements in accordance with this agreement.
12.06	In preference to being laid off, an employee who has at least one (1) year of continuous service with the Company may request in writing to accept the following severance pay and to terminate his employment with the Company. In this case, the employee shall have no recall rights under this Agreement. Severance pay will be provided based on the greater of:
41
a)	four weeks' pay multiplied by 1.15; or
b)	two weeks' pay plus two weeks' pay for each year of Continuous Service multiplied by 1.15, provided in either case the employee has at least one (1) year of Continuous Service with the Company. Severance pay for a partial year of service will be calculated on a prorated basis. A weeks' pay shall equal 40 hours at the employee's base hourly rate.
ARTICLE XIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
13.01	Definition: For the purpose of this Agreement the term "grievance" shall mean any dispute between the Company and the Union, or between the Company and any employee within the jurisdiction of the Union, concerning the interpretation, application, claim of breach or violation of this Agreement.
13.02	a) Any employee who has a dispute shall first discuss the
matter with his immediate Supervisor with a view to prompt settlement thereof. The employee may have his Union Steward present at such discussion.
b)	i) Step One: If after forty-eight (48) hours the dispute is not resolved, it then becomes a formal grievance if the employee and/or his Union Steward present a written grievance form to his Supervisor, specifying the provision(s) of the Collective Agreement violated and specifying the remedy requested, within seven (7) working days of the date of occurrence of the fact or event which gave rise to the matter in dispute, ii) The grievance will be heard by the Manager or his appointee, the Manager will arrange an acceptable hearing date within five (5) working days of the formal submission. At this meeting the Grievor will be accompanied by a Union Steward. The Manager or his appointee shall reply in writing to the Grievor within a further five (5) working days.
42
c)	Step Two: Failing the satisfactory resolution of the grievance within five (5) working days of the date of the written reply in Step One, the grievance may be appealed to the Vice President or his appointee, who will arrange a meeting with a Union Grievance Committee for that purpose, within a further ten (10) working days.
d)	i) The meetings referred to in (b) (ii) and (c) above shall
be held on the Grievor's day shift.
ii) Where an appointee hears the grievance, such appointee shall not be the person who heard the grievance in the previous step.
e)	If the grievance is not resolved within five (5) working days of the date of the meeting, it may be submitted to arbitration in accordance with the following procedures:
i)	discipline and discharge grievances will be heard by a single arbitrator;
ii)	grievances of any other nature will be heard by a three-man Arbitration Board unless otherwise agreed to by both parties.
13.03	The party desiring arbitration shall notify the other party of intention to arbitrate, and if no such notice is received within thirty (30) working days of the date of the final answer in Step Two of the grievance procedure, the grievance shall be deemed to be settled.
13.04	a) A grievance of the Union which cannot be made the
grievance of an employee or a group of employees may be submitted by the Union to the Company, and a grievance of the Company may be submitted in writing within ten (10) working days after the occurrence of the fact or event which gave rise to the matter in dispute. A meeting of the parties shall be held thereafter within a period of five (5) working days with the Director of Human Resources, Oil Sands or his appointee in attendance. Such meeting and response in writing within ten (10) working days thereof,
43
shall constitute the first and final step of the grievance procedure in a grievance of this nature.
b) If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved by this procedure it may be submitted to arbitration according to Article 13.03.
13.05	The time limit imposed on the initial filing of a written grievance is not intended to be restrictive where the employee or party grieving could not be aware of the existence of a potential grievance within such limit, e.g., a delay caused by pay calculation procedures which extend beyond the allowed time limit, or by promotion, or the event of an employee's absence through illness, compensable accident, vacation or authorized leave of absence.
13.06	a) In the event that the Company does not respond to a
grievance within the specified time limits (subject to 13.06 (b)) the grievance may be advanced to the next step in the grievance procedure.
b) In the event that a grievance is not submitted or advanced from one step to another within the time limits specified, (subject to Article 13.05) or as extended by agreement between the Company and the Union in writing, the grievance shall be deemed to be settled.
13.07	a) Prior to the imposition of documented discipline, an
employee, if available, will be notified at a meeting with Management of the reasons for such action, unless he is a danger to himself or others. The employee, if he so desires, may be accompanied by a Union Steward at the meeting.
b) Any complaint or grievance by an employee, that he has been terminated without cause, may be submitted directly to Step Two of the grievance procedure, provided such action is taken within ten (10) calendar days of the date of termination. Probationary employees may not grieve their .	termination.
44
c)	Termination grievances will be scheduled for arbitration at the earliest opportunity.
d)	Following completion of a consecutive twelve (12) month period without receiving further disciplinary letters, all letters of discipline will be removed from an employee's file provided that the discipline is not being processed through the grievance procedure. Once removed from the file a letter shall not be referred to in any subsequent action. Further, the Company agrees that all letters of discipline when removed are returned to the employee.
13.08	The term "working days" as used in Articles 13.01, 13.02, 13.03 and 13.04 is defined as the scheduled days worked by the individual holding the grievance.
13.09	The decision of the Board of Arbitration shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon all affected employees as set out in the Alberta Labour Relations Code.
ARTICLE XIV- SAFETY, HEALTH AND GENERAL CONDITIONS
14.01	The Company recognizes the importance of and will promote and encourage safety in the Plant for the protection and general welfare of the employees. The Union recognizes its responsibility and will co-operate fully with the Company.
14.02	In recognition that safety is a joint management and employee concern, the following committees will be established:
a) Central Safety Committee, consisting of the Executive VicePresident, Oil Sands, Loss Management Manager, Union President and the Safety Board Chairperson or their designates will meet on a regular basis to discuss overall plant safety, exchange ideas and address concerns to ensure the safety of all employees at Suncor. This meeting will be held a minimum of once a quarter.
45
b)	Departmental Joint Health & Safety Committees will be established with representation from employees and Management to promote and discuss safety at the departmental levels. These committees will meet monthly.
c)	The Company will recognize the Safety Board Chairperson and thirty (30) Area Safety Representatives. The Company will recognize a Shift Safety Representative where a sufficient number of employees per shift exist in the Area.
i)	The Area Safety Representatives will receive all accident investigation and near miss reports for his area as issued.
ii)	The Shift Safety Representative may attend all accident investigation meetings for his shift.
d)	No Joint Health & Safety committee member shall suffer loss of regular pay by attending regularly scheduled meetings of this committee. Committee members attending regularly scheduled meetings on their own time will be paid the travel allowance and their normal rate of pay, for actual time spent at the meeting, at overtime rates.
e)	Area Safety Representatives will be given the opportunity for worksite observation and other safety related work as the Company requests. Area Safety Representatives will be given the appropriate time to prepare for meetings where requested by the Company.
14.03	The Company will provide adequate first aid facilities in the Plant. The Company agrees to provide and maintain lockers, lunch rooms, and reasonable sanitary, washing and shower facilities. Employees using these facilities are expected to refrain from littering and abusing the facilities.
14.04	When required to work in a location remote from other employees, an employee may request of his Supervisor, and his Supervisor may authorize, another employee to accompany him to ensure his safety.
46
14.05	a) Twice weekly clothing changes will be allowed all Suncor Energy Inc. employees covered by Article 2.01.
b)	Additional coveralls will be supplied as determined by the Area Superintendent.
c)	The Company will pay, on the second pay day of October, to all employees covered by Article 2.01 who have completed their probationary period, an annual clothing allowance as outlined in Appendix "D", Letter of Understanding #1.
d)	The Company agrees that the present practice of supplying safety equipment will continue in full.
ARTICLE XV- INCORPORATION OF OVERTIME AGREEMENT
15.01 The terms of the overtime agreement, Article 5.07, shall be for such period as provided for in Article XVI of the Collective Agreement or may be terminated by either party after 30 calendar days written notice provided that a majority of employees from an area or progression have expressed a desire to be removed from the compressed work week schedule or the Company has served proper notice of cancellation.
ARTICLE XVI - EFFECTIVE DATE. DURATION AND AMENDMENTS
16.01 a) This Agreement shall become effective at 12:01 a.m. on the 6th day of September, 2013 and shall continue in force and effect until 12:01 a.m. on the 1st day of May, 2016 and thereafter from year to year unless written notice is given by either party to the other, within one hundred and twenty (120) days of the expiration date, of intention to terminate or negotiate amendments for a new Agreement.
47
b)	Where notice to negotiate amendments for a new Agreement has been given, then this Agreement shall continue in force and effect until the Union and employees are in a position to lawfully strike or the Company is in a position to lawfully lock-out.
c)	Notwithstanding anything in this Article, any portion of this Agreement may be amended by the Company and the Union at any time provided that both Parties agree.
48
In witness whereof, we the undersigned hereby attach our hands and seal to this agreement this 9th day of December, 2013 in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo, Alberta.
FOR SUNCOR ENERGY INC., OIL SANDS
Brad Droppo, Chairperson
Mike Agnew
Paul Bourque
Martin Carter
FOR
UNIFOR LOCAL 707-A
Steve Drover
Angela Adams
Scott Carnochan
Tod Jackson
iMAw
Megan Scheie
Sue Pearce 49
APPENDIX "A" - SALARY GROUPS
GROUP RATES 13-02-01	RATES RATES 14-02-01 15-02-01
A-3 60.91	63.04 65.40 Unit Leader - Completed 2 years in classification
A-2 59.80	61.89 64.21 Unit Leader-Upon promotion
A-1 58.54	60.59 62.86 Dual Ticket Journeyman Shovel Operator Upgrading Control Room Operator Extraction Control Room Operator Energy & Utilities Control Room Operator
B-1 57.29	59.55 62.04 Journeyman completed Multi-skilling program Mine Senior Operator Warehouse Technician - Phase 8 Maintainer/Operator - Tailings Extraction Fine Tailings Control Room Operator
B 55.28	57.21 59.37 Journeyman Plant Support Equipment Operator - See Progression Chart Extraction Operator - See Progression Chart Upgrading Operator - See Progression Chart Energy & Utilities Operator - Phase 5 Extraction Fine Tailings Operator - Phase 7 Laboratory Tech - Phase 9 Warehouse Technician - Phase 7 Mine Operator - Phase 7 Maintenance Services Operator - 64 months Tire Specialist - 64 months Lube Specialist - 64 months
C 52.99	54.84 56.91 Extraction Operator - See Progression Chart Plant Support Equipment Operator - See Progression Chart Upgrading Operator - See Progression Chart Extraction Fine Tailings Operator - Phase 6 Energy & Utilities Operator - Phase 4 Laboratory Tech. - Phase 8 Warehouse Technician - Phase 6 Mine Operator - Phase 6 Maintenance Services Operator - 52 months Tire Specialist - 48 months Lube Specialist - 48 months Field Labourer - 48 months
	BO
GROUP RATES 13-02-01	RATES RATES 14-02-01 15-02-01
D 51.45	53,25 55.25 Extraction Operator - See Progression Chart Plant Support Equipment Operator - See Progression Chart Upgrading Operator - See Progression Chart Energy & Utilities Operator - Phase 3 Extraction Fine Tailings Operator - Phase 5 Laboratory Tech. - Phase 7 Warehouse Technician - Phase 5 Mine Operator - Phase 5 Maintenance Services Operator - 40 months Tire Specialist - 24 months Lube Specialist - 24 months Field Labourer - 24 months
E 49.84	51.58 53.51 Apprentice Plant Support Equipment Operator - See Progression Chart Upgrading Operator - See Progression Chart Extraction Operator - See Progression Chart Extraction Fine Tailings Operator - Phase 4 Warehouse Technician - Phase 4 Laboratory Tech. - Phase 6 Tire Specialist - start Lube Specialist-start Field Labourer - start
F 48.28	49.97 51.84 Extraction Operator-Phase 2 Plant Support Equipment Operator - See Progression Chart Upgrading Operator - See Progression Chart Energy & Utilities Operator - Phase 2 Extraction Fine Tailings Operator - Phase 3 Laboratory Tech. - Phase 5 Warehouse Technician - Phase 3 Maintenance Services Operator - 25 months Mine Operator - Phase 4
G 46.68	48.31 50.12 Upgrading Operator - See Progression Chart Plant Support Equipment Operator - See Progression Chart Extraction Operator - See Progression Chart Energy & Utilities Operator - Phase 1 Laboratory Tech. - Phase 4 Warehouse Technician - Phase 2 Maintenance Services Operator - 15 months Mine Operator - Phase 3 Steam Bay - 12 months
51
GROUP RATES 13-02-01	RATES RATES 14-02-01 15-02-01
H 45.15	46.73 48.48 Apprentice III Labourer - 24 months Extraction Operator - See Progression Chart Upgrading Operator-See Progression Chart Energy & Utilities Operator - Phase 1 Extraction Fine Tailings Operator - Phase 2 Plant Support Equipment Operator - See Progression Chart Laboratory Tech. - Phase 3 Warehouse Technician - Phase 1 Maintenance Services Operator - 3 months Mine Operator - Phase 2 Steam Bay - Start
1 43.95	45.49 47.20 Labourer - 18 months Extraction Operator - See Progression Chart Upgrading Operator - See Progression Chart Laboratory Tech. - Phase 2
J 42.03	43.50 45.13 Apprentice II Apprentice 1 (internal) Labourer - 12 months Extraction Operator - See Progression Chart Extraction Fine Tailings Operator - Phase 1 Laboratory Tech. - Phase 1
K 40.42	41.85 43.42 Labourer - 6 months
L 35.40	36.64 38.01 Apprentice 1 (external) Labourer-start Extraction Trainee - start Upgrading Trainee - start Extraction Fine Tailings Trainee - start Energy & Utilities Operator - start Laboratory Technician - start Maintenance Services Operator - start Mine Operator-start Plant Support Equipment Operator - See Progression Chart
52
APPENDIX "A" - OTHER ALLOWANCES
RATES RATES RATES
13-02-01	14-02-01	15-02-01	Power Engineering Certificate
66.34	68.65	71.24	4th Class Ticket - 1.5% of the A-B-D Schedule bi-weekly at the "8" salary group
199.01	205.96	213.73	3rd Class Ticket-4.5% of the A-B-D Schedule bi-weekly at the "B" salary group
243.23	251.72	261.23	2nd Class Ticket-5.5% of the A-B-D Schedule bi-weekly at the "B" salary group
61.82*	63.98*	66.40*	Hot Shift Change
*Subject to change per terms of Memorandum of Agreement.
53
SALARY SCHEDULE
MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 13-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SALARY RASE GROUP HOURLY RATE		5.07 (A,B,D) MONTHLY SAURY 40 HOUR	5.07(F) SHIFT DIFF.	5.07 (C,G) SHIFT DIFF.	AVERAGE SHIFT O/T	5.07(F) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SAURY	5.07 (C,G) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SAURY
A-3	$60.91	$10,593.99	$349.16	$369.51	$1,059.40	$12,002.55	$12,022.90
A-2	$59.80	$10,400.93	$349.16	$369.51	$1,040.09	$11,790.18	$11,810.53
A-1	$58.54	$10,181.78	$349.16	$369.51	$1,018.18	$11,549.12	$11,569.47
B-1	$57.29	$9,964.37	$349.16	$369.51	$996.44	$11,309.97	$11,330.32
B	$55.28	$9,614.77	$349.16	$369.51	$961.48	$10,925.41	$10,945.76
C	$52.99	$9,216.48	$349.16	$369.51	$921.65	$10,487.28	$10,507.63
D	$51.45	$8,948.63	$349.16	$369.51	$894.86	$10,192.65	$10,213.00
E	$49.84	$8,668.60	$349.16	$369.51	$866.86	$9,884.62	$9,904.97
F	$48.28	$8,397.27	$349.16	$369.51	$839.73	$9,586.16	$9,606.51
G	$46.68	$8,118.99	$349.16	$369.51	$811.90	$9,280.05	$9,300.40
H	$45.15	$7,852.88	$349.16	$369.51	$785.29	$8,987.32	$9,007.67
1	$43.95	$7,644.16	$349.16	$369.51	$764.42	$8,757.74	$8,778.09
J	$42.03	$7,310.22	$349.16	$369.51	$731.02	$8,390.40	$8,410.75
K	$40.42	$7,030.19	$349.16	$369.51	$703.02	$8,082.37	$8,102.72
L	$35.40	$6,157.07	$349.16	$369.51	$615.71	$7,121.94	$7,142.29
							
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHIFT -NIGHT SHIFT -7%					2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT		- 4%,
RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP			"G" HOURLY RATE		$0.93	$1.87	$3.27
54
SALARY SCHEDULE
MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 13-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SAURY BASE GROUP HOURLY RATE		5.07 (A,B*D) MONTHLY SALARY 40 HOUR	5.07(E) SHIFT DIFF.	5.07(H) SHIFT DIFF.	AVERAGE SHIFT 0/T	5.07(E) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SAURY	5.07 (H) SHIR REG. MONTHLY SAURY
A-3	$60.91	$10,593.99	$113.84	$65.05	$1,059.40	$11,767.22	$10,659.04
A-2	$59.80 $10,400.93		$113.84	$65.05	$1,040.09	$11,554.86	$10,465.98
A-1	$58.54 $10,181.78		$113.84	$65.05	$1,018.18	$11,313.79	$10,246.83
B-l	$57.29	$9,964.37	$113.84	$65.05	$996.44	$11,074.64	$10,029.42
B	$55.28	$9,614.77	$113.84	$65.05	$961.48	$10,690.08	$9,679.82
C	$52.99	$9,216.48	$113.84	$65.05	$921.65	$10,251.96	$9,281.52
D	$51.45	$8,948.63	$113.84	$65.05	$894.86	$9,957.32	$9,013.67
E	$49.84	$8,668.60	$113.84	$65.05	$866.86	$9,649.30	$8,733.65
F	$48.28	$8,397.27	$113.84	$65.05	$839.73	$9,350.83	$8,462.32
G	$46.68	$8,118.99	$113.84	$65.05	$811.90	$9,044.72	$8,184.04
H	$45.15	$7,852.88	$113.84	$65.05	$785.29	$8,752.00	$7,917.92
1	$43.95	$7,644.16	$113.84	$65.05	$764.42	$8,522.41	$7,709.21
J	$42.03	$7,310.22	$113.84	$65.05	$731.02	$8,155.08	$7,375.27
K	$40.42	$7,030.19	$113.84	$65.05	$703.02	$7,847.05	$7,095.24
L	$35.40	$6,157.07	$113.84	$65.05	$615.71	$6,886.61	$6,222.12
							
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHIFT - 2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT - 4%, NIGHT SHIFT - 7%
RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP "G" HOURLY RATE $0.93	$1.87	$3.27
55
SALARY SCHEDULE
MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 13-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SAURY GROUP	BASE HOURLY RATE	5.07 (A.B.D) BI-WEEKLY SAURY 40 HOUR	5.07 (H) SHIFT REGUUR BI-WEEKLY	5.07 (E) SHIFT REGUUR BI-WEEKLY	5.07(F) SHIFT REGUUR BI-WEEKLY	5.07 (C,G) SHIFT REGUUR BI-WEEKLY
A-3	$60.91	$4,872.80	$4,902.72	$5,412.44	$5,520.68	$5,530.04
A-2	$59.80	$4,784.00	$4,813.92	$5,314.76	$5,423.00	$5,432.36
A-1	$58.54	$4,683.20	$4,713.12	$5,203.88	$5,312.12	$5,321.48
B-1	$57.29	$4,583.20	$4,613.12	$5,093.88	$5,202.12	$5,211.48
B	$55.28	$4,422.40	$4,452.32	$4,917.00	$5,025.24	$5,034.60
C	$52.99	$4,239.20	$4,269.12	$4,715.48	$4,823.72	$4,833.08
D	$51.45	$4,116.00	$4,145.92	$4,579.96	$4,688.20	$4,697.56
E	$49.84	$3,987.20	$4,017.12	$4,438.28	$4,546.52	$4,555.88
F	$48.28	$3,862.40	$3,892.32	$4,301.00	$4,409.24	$4,418.60
G	$46.68	$3,734.40	$3,764.32	$4,160.20	$4,268.44	$4,277.80
H	$45.15	$3,612.00	$3,641.92	$4,025.56	$4,133.80	$4,143.16
I	$43.95	$3,516.00	$3,545.92	$3,919.96	$4,028.20	$4,037.56
J	$42.03	$3,362.40	$3,392.32	$3,751.00	$3,859.24	$3,868.60
K	$40.42	$3,233.60	$3,263.52	$3,609.32	$3,717.56	$3,726.92
L	$35.40	$2,832.00	$2,861.92	$3,167.56	$3,275.80	$3,285.16
						
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHIFT -NIGHT SHIFT - 7%				2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT		- 4%,
RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP "G"			HOURLY RATE	! $0.93	$1.87	$3.27
56
SALARY SCHEDULE
MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 14-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SALARY BASE GROUP HOURLY RATE		5.07 (A,B,D) MONTHLY SALARY 40 HOUR	5.07(F) SHIFT OIFF.	5.07 (C,G) SHIFT DIFF.	AVERAGE SHIFT 0/T	5.07(F) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SALARY	5.07 (C,G) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SALARY
A-3	$63.04	$10,964.46	$361.34	$382.30	$1,096.45	$12,422.24	$12,443.20
A-2	$61.89	$10,764.44	$361.34	$382.30	$1,076.44	$12,202.22	$12,223.18
A-1	$60.59	$10,538.33	$361.34	$382.30	$1,053.83	$11,953.50	$11,974.46
B-1	$59.55	$10,357.45	$361.34	$382.30	$1,035.74	$11,754.53	$11,775.49
B	$57.21	$9,950.45	$361.34	$382.30	$995.05	$11,306.84	$11,327.79
C	$54.84	$9,538.24	$361.34	$382.30	$953.82	$10,853.40	$10,874.36
D	$53.25	$9,261.70	$361.34	$382.30	$926.17	$10,549.20	$10,570.16
E	$51.58	$8,971.24	$361.34	$382.30	$897.12	$10,229.70	$10,250.65
F	$49.97	$8,691.21	$361.34	$382.30	$869.12	$9,921.67	$9,942.63
G	$48.31	$8,402.49	$361.34	$382.30	$840.25	$9,604.07	$9,625.03
H	$46.73	$8,127.68	$361.34	$382.30	$812.77	$9,301.79	$9,322.75
1	$45.49	$7,912.01	$361.34	$382.30	$791.20	$9,064.55	$9,085.51
J	$43.50	$7,565.89	$361.34	$382.30	$756.59	$8,683.82	$8,704.78
K	$41.85	$7,278.91	$361.34	$382.30	$727.89	$8,368.14	$8,389.10
L	$36.64	$6,372.74	$361.34	$382.30	$637.27	$7,371.35	$7,392.31
							
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHIFT -NIGHT SHIFT - 7%					2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT		- 4%,
RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP'			'G" HOURLY RATE		$0.97	$1.93	$3.38
57
SALARY SCHEDULE
MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 14-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SALARY BASE GROUP HOURLY RATE		5.07 (A,B,D) MONTHLY SAURY 40 HOUR	5.07(E) SHIFT DIFF.	5.07 (H) SHIFT DIFF.	AVERAGE SHIFT O/T	5.07(E) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SAURY	5.07(H) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SALARY
A-3	$63.04	$10,964.46	$117.49	$67.14	$1,096.45	$12,178.39	$11,031.59
A-2	$61.89	$10,764.44	$117.49	$67.14	$1,076.44	$11,958.37	$10,831.58
A-1	$60.59	$10,538.33	$117.49	$67.14	$1,053.83	$11,709.65	$10,605.47
B-1	$59.55	$10,357.45	$117.49	$67.14	$1,035.74	$11,510.68	$10,424.58
B	$57.21	$9,950.45	$117.49	$67.14	$995.05	$11,062.99	$10,017.59
C	$54.84	$9,538.24	$117.49	$67.14	$953.82	$10,609.56	$9,605.38
D	$53.25	$9,261.70	$117.49	$67.14	$926.17	$10,305.35	$9,328.83
E	$51.58	$8,971.24	$117.49	$67.14	$897.12	$9,985.85	$9,038.37
F	$49.97	$8,691.21	$117.49	$67.14	$869.12	$9,677.82	$8,758.35
G	$48.31	$8,402.49	$117.49	$67.14	$840.25	$9,360.23	$8,469.63
H	$46.73	$8,127.68	$117.49	$67.14	$812.77	$9,057.94	$8,194.82
1	$45.49	$7,912.01	$117.49	$67.14	$791.20	$8,820.70	$7,979.15
J	$43.50	$7,565.89	$117.49	$67.14	$756.59	$8,439.97	$7,633.03
<	$41.85	$7,278.91	$117.49	$67.14	$727.89	$8,124.29	$7,346.05
L	$36.64	$6,372.74	$117.49	$67.14	$637.27	$7,127.51	$6,439.88
							
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHIFT -NIGHT SHIFT - 7%					2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT		- 4%,
RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP "G" HOURLY RATE					$0.97	$1.93	$3.38
58
SALARY SCHEDULE
MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 14-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SAURY GROUP	BASE HOURLY RATE	5.07 (A,B,D) BI-WEEKLY SALARY 40 HOUR	5.07 (H) SHIFT REGULAR BI-WEEKLY	5.07(E) SHIFT REGUUR BI-WEEKLY	5.07(F) SHIFT REGUUR BI-WEEKLY	5.07 (C,G) SHIFT REGUUR BI-WEEKLY
A-3	$63.04	$5,043.20	$5,074.08	$5,601.56	$5,713.72	$5,723.36
A-2	$61.89	$4,951.20	$4,982.08	$5,500.36	$5,612.52	$5,622.16
A-1	$60.59	$4,847.20	$4,878.08	$5,385.96	$5,498.12	$5,507.76
B-1	$59.55	$4,764.00	$4,794.88	$5,294.44	$5,406.60	$5,416.24
B	$57.21	$4,576.80	$4,607.68	$5,088.52	$5,200.68	$5,210.32
C	$54.84	$4,387.20	$4,418.08	$4,879.96	$4,992.12	$5,001.76
D	$53.25	$4,260.00	$4,290.88	$4,740.04	$4,852.20	$4,861.84
E	$51.58	$4,126.40	$4,157.28	$4,593.08	$4,705.24	$4,714.88
F	$49.97	$3,997.60	$4,028.48	$4,451.40	$4,563.56	$4,573.20
G	$48.31	$3,864.80	$3,895.68	$4,305.32	$4,417.48	$4,427.12
H	$46.73	$3,738.40	$3,769.28	$4,166.28	$4,278.44	$4,288.08
1	$45.49	$3,639.20	$3,670.08	$4,057.16	$4,169.32	$4,178.96
J	$43.50	$3,480.00	$3,510.88	$3,882.04	$3,994.20	$4,003.84
K	$41.85	$3,348.00	$3,378.88	$3,736.84	$3,849.00	$3,858.64
L	$36.64	$2,931.20	$2,962.08	$3,278.36	$3,390.52	$3,400.16
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHIFT - 2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT - 4%, NIGHT SHIFT - 7%
RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP "G" HOURLY RATE $0.97	SI.93	S3.38
59
SALARY SCHEDULE
MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 15-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SALARY BASE GROUP HOURLY RATE		5.07 (A.B.D) MONTHLY SALARY 40 HOUR	5.07(F) SHIFT DIFF.	5.07 (C,G) SHIFT DIFF.	AVERAGE SHIFT 0/T	5.07(F) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SALARY	5.07 (C,G) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SALARY
A-3	S65.40	$11,374.93	$374.47	$396.30	$1,137.49	$12,886.89	$12,908.72
A-2	$64.21	$11,167.95	$374.47	$396.30	$1,116.80	$12,659.22	$12,681.05
A-1	$62.86	$10,933.15	$374.47	$396.30	$1,093.32	$12,400.93	$12,422.76
B-1	$62.04	$10,790.53	$374.47	$396.30	$1,079.05	$12,244.05	$12,265.88
B	$59.37	$10,326.14	$374.47	$396.30	$1,032.61	$11,733.22	$11,755.05
C	$56.91	$9,898.28	$374.47	$396.30	$989.83	$11,262.57	$11,284.40
D	$55.25	$9,609.55	$374.47	$396.30	$960.96	$10,944.98	$10,966.81
E	$53.51	$9,306.92	$374.47	$396.30	$930.69	$10,612.08	$10,633.91
F	$51.84	$9,016.46	$374.47	$396.30	$901.65	$10,292.57	$10,314.40
G	$50.12	$8,717.30	$374.47	$396.30	$871.73	$9,963.50	$9,985.33
H	$48.48	$8,432.06	$374.47	$396.30	$843.21	$9,649.73	$9,671.56
1	$47.20	$8,209.43	$374.47	$396.30	$820.94	$9,404.84	$9,426.67
J	$45.13	$7,849.40	$374.47	$396.30	$784.94	$9,008.80	$9,030.63
<	$43.42	$7,551.98	$374.47	$396.30	$755.20	$8,681.64	$8,703.47
L	$38.01	$6,611.03	$374.47	$396.30	$661.10	$7,646.60	$7,668.42
							
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHIFT -NIGHT SHIFT - 7%					2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT		- 4%,
RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP			"G" HOURLY RATE		$1.00	$2.00	$3.51
60
SALARY SCHEDULE
MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 15-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SAURY BASE GROUP HOURLY RATE		5.07 (AAD) MONTHLY SALARY 40 HOUR	5.07(E) SHIFT DIFF.	5.07 (H) SHIFT DIFF.	AVERAGE SHIFT on	5.07(E) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SALARY	5.07 (H) SHIFT REG. MONTHLY SAURY
A-3	$65.40	$11,374.93	$121.75	$69.57	$1,137.49	$12,634.17 $11,444.50	
A-2	$64.21	$11,167.95	$121.75	$69.57	$1,116.80	$12,406.50 $11,237.53	
A-1	$62.86	$10,933.15	$121.75	$69.57	$1,093.32	$12,148.22 $11,002.72	
B-1	$62.04	$10,790.53	$121.75	$69.57	$1,079.05	$11,991.33	$10,860.10
B	$59.37	$10,326.14	$121.75	$69.57	$1,032.61	$1 1,480.50 $10,395.71	
C	$56.91	$9,898.28	$121.75	$69.57	$989.83	$11,009.85	$9,967.85
D	$55.25	$9,609.55	$121.75	$69.57	$960.96	$10,692.26	$9,679.13
E	$53.51	$9,306.92	$121.75	$69.57	$930.69	$10,359.36	$9,376.49
F	$51.84	$9,016.46	$121.75	$69.57	$901.65	$10,039.85	$9,086.03
G	$50.12	$8,717.30	$121.75	$69.57	$871.73	$9,710.78	$8,786.87
H	$48.48	$8,432.06	$121.75	$69.57	$843.21	$9,397.01	$8,501.63
I	$47.20	$8,209.43	$121.75	$69.57	$820.94	$9,152.12	$8,279.00
J	$45.13	$7,849.40	$121.75	$69.57	$784.94	$8,756.09	$7,918.97
<	$43.42	$7,551.98	$121.75	$69.57	$755.20	$8,428.93	$7,621.55
L	$38.01	$6,611.03	$121.75	$69.57	$661.10	$7,393.88	$6,680.60
							
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHIFT -NIGHT SHIFT-7%					2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT		’ - 4%,
RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP			"G" HOURLY RATE		$1.00	$2.00	$3.51
61
SALARY SCHEDULE
MONTHLY SALARIES EFFECTIVE 15-02-01 (YY-MM-DD) subject to verification
SALARY	BASE	5.07 (A.B.D)	5.07 (H)	5.07(E)	5.07(F)	5.07 (C,G)
GROUP	HOURLY	BI-WEEKLY	SHIFT	SHIFT	SHIFT	SHIFT
	RATE	SAURY	REGUUR	REGUUR	REGUUR	REGUUR
		40 HOUR	BI-WEEKLY	BI-WEEKLY	BI-WEEKLY	BI-WEEKLY
A-3	$65.40	$5,232.00	$5,264.00	$5,811.20	$5,927.44	$5,937.48
A-2	$64.21	$5,136.80	$5,168.80	$5,706.48	$5,822.72	$5,832.76
A-1	$62.86	$5,028.80	$5,060.80	$5,587.68	$5,703.92	$5,713.96
B-1	$62.04	$4,963.20	$4,995.20	$5,515.52	$5,631.76	$5,641.80
B	$59.37	$4,749.60	$4,781.60	$5,280.56	$5,396.80	$5,406.84
C	$56.91	$4,552.80	$4,584.80	$5,064.08	$5,180.32	$5,190.36
D	$55.25	$4,420.00	$4,452.00	$4,918.00	$5,034.24	$5,044.28
E	$53.51	$4,280.80	$4,312.80	$4,764.88	$4,881.12	$4,891.16
F	$51.84	$4,147.20	$4,179.20	$4,617.92	$4,734.16	$4,744.20
G	$50.12	$4,009.60	$4,041.60	$4,466.56	$4,582.80	$4,592.84
H	$48.48	$3,878.40	$3,910.40	$4,322.24	$4,438.48	$4,448.52
1	$47.20	$3,776.00	$3,808.00	$4,209.60	$4,325.84	$4,335.88
J	$45.13	$3,610.40	$3,642.40	$4,027.44	$4,143.68	$4,153.72
K	$43.42	$3,473.60	$3,505.60	$3,876.96	$3,993.20	$4,003.24
L	$38.01	$3,040.80	$3,072.80	$3,400.88	$3,517.12	$3,527.16
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL BASED ON: DAY SHIFT - 2%, AFTERNOON SHIFT - 4%, NIGHT SHIFT - 7%
RESPECTIVELY OF GROUP "G" HOURLY RATE $1.00	$2.00	S3.51
62
APPENDIX "B"
MASTER MAINTENANCE PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	New Hires
a)	When filling vacancies in skilled positions, the Company agrees to give first preference to Journeymen with an appropriate ticket.
b)	When a non-fully qualified employee is hired, he will be classified either as Apprentice IV, which employee will be additional to the existing complement of apprentices, or in accordance with the Area Progression Notes.
2.	The following table relates the various levels of the apprenticeship
program to the levels of the Suncor Energy Inc. Maintenance
Progression Charts:
JOURNEYMAN: A holder of a certificate of proficiency or certificate of qualification in his trade recognized by the Province of Alberta. Journeyman with twelve (12) month's service is a certified Journeyman who has been employed in a maintenance capacity at Suncor Energy Inc. for 12 months or longer.
APPRENTICE IV: Completed	the	third year	of	a	four-year
apprenticeship program, or the second year of a three-year apprenticeship program.
APPRENTICE III: Completed the second year of a four-year apprenticeship program, or the first year of a three-year apprenticeship program.
APPRENTICE II: Completed	the	first year	of	a	four-year
apprenticeship program.
APPRENTICE I:	An employee upon being indentured into an
apprenticeship program shall be classified as an Apprentice I.
63
3.	While every effort will be made by the Company to ensure that an employee is given the opportunity to complete his annual course work and examination prior to each twelve month point on his progression being reached, it is recognized that scheduling difficulties arising from the necessity of maintaining the efficiency of the Suncor Energy Inc.; Maintenance Departments may result in the completion of such course work and examination at a date after the twelve (12) month period(s). In such cases of Company occasioned delays and upon successful completion of his apprenticeship for a given year, including the passing of the examination, the apprentice who, as a direct consequence is reclassified according to Note 2 above, shall receive a retroactive pay adjustment for all hours worked from the anniversary date upon which he was eligible for reclassification, pending only the successful completion of the apprenticeship examination and preceding course work.
4.	a) While the Company has every desire and intention to continue
the apprenticeship program indefinitely, it reserves the right to amend, alter, suspend, or cease the program or any part of it, should conditions so indicate. In such event, however, the Company would still allow all apprentices then enrolled to complete their Journeyman qualifications through the apprenticeship program. This provision does not preclude layoffs under Article XII.
b)	Notwithstanding (a) above, before the Company exercises its right to amend, alter, suspend or cease any part of the apprenticeship program, it shall only be done after consultation with the Union.
c)	When an apprentice successfully completes the apprenticeship program and becomes a newly classified journeyman, his placement will be pursuant to the respective area reassignment process. Where there is no area in which to be reassigned, then this provision shall not apply.
5.	The Apprenticeship and Industry Training Act of Alberta shall apply in the resolution of disputes over job assignments of apprentices, if not otherwise covered by the Agreement.
64
6.	Consistent with Article 7.01 and within the period specified in Article 6.08, the Company will make every reasonable effort to distribute overtime work equally among qualified employees within each Maintenance Department, or within areas of each Department as specified in that Department's Progression Notes.
7.	While reserving the right, subject to legal restrictions, to utilize the abilities of Maintenance personnel as required in jobs other than their specialty, the Company recognizes the desirability of maximizing the utilization of an employee's certified skills.
8.	If the Company regularly and routinely assigns a Journeyman who, in accordance with note 2 above, is certified in more than one trade to tasks requiring one of their other certificates then such employee will be paid the rate of pay indicated in Appendix "A". For this purpose regular and routinely will mean approximately 25% or more of the time or duties.
9.	In selecting employees for job-related training, selection shall be based on both seniority and departmental training needs with first consideration being given to senior employees who have not previously received such training.
10.	Where qualifications and experience required for a permanent Bargaining Unit vacancy are relatively equal among two or more day, shift or continuous shift employees, the senior of such employees on a different shift schedule will have the first preference to fill the vacancy.
11.	Apprentices while at school will receive their normal rate of pay and will reimburse the Company (through the payroll deduction program), with any Government Training Allowance received, excluding "Living Away" portion of allowance. When required to attend school out of town, apprentices will be reimbursed to a maximum of $225 per week upon proof of passing and upon providing receipts. Apprentices will be reimbursed for out of town expenses only when there is no local schooling reasonably available.
12.	All required tools will be supplied by the Company at no cost to Maintenance employee.
65
MAINTENANCE JOB PROGRESSION CHART & NOTES -ELECTRONICS DEPARTMENT
1.	a) In Electronics, the Instrument Mechanic, Electrician, and Electronic Technician, Power Lineman, and, if required, Electrical Motor Technician, Power Systems Electrician Apprenticeship Programs shall be made available. Should employees be hired in related other trades which are properly encompassed by the Electronics Progression, every effort will be made to hire only those employees qualified at the Journeyman level.
b)	While preference will be given to the hiring of journeymen, in the Instrument Mechanic trade, a non-certified tradesman may be hired at the journeyman rate of pay based on his having a minimum of five (5) years' experience in the trade. Such employees must subsequently qualify for an Alberta trade certificate within six (6) months.
c)	A non-fully qualified employee may be hired at the Apprentice IV, III, II or I level. Such employee will be additional to the existing complement of apprentices.
66
d)	For other trades encompassed by the Electronics Progression, an employee may be hired at the Apprentice II or III level when an apprenticeship contract in level II or III is cancelled or for balancing the Apprenticeship Program upon failure in the II or III level. All apprenticeship positions will be posted through the internal posting system.
2.	Overtime distribution, in accordance with Master Maintenance Progression Note 6, shall be within each individual area, namely; Mine Equipment Maintenance, Extraction, Upgrading, C.M.S. Electrical, Radio Shop East, Radio Shop West, Valve Shop, Transmission & Distribution, Millennium and Energy & Utilities.
3.	For training purposes, apprentices will be rotated among the working areas where their trade is practiced.
4.	Overtime shall be distributed to gualified employees in the trade, job classification and area where the overtime is required in accordance with Article 6.08.
5.	In the Upgrading, Millennium and Extraction Maintenance Departments, in accordance with Article 5.08(b), temporary shift vacancies will not be filled through the application of temporary shift changes for vacancies of four days or less on a twelve (12) hour Compressed Work Week Continuous Shift Schedule.
6.	Before filling any permanent vacancy within the Electronics department, employees who have submitted a request for reassignment, prior to the vacancy occurring, or who have submitted a written request for a transfer to a different shift schedule and who has the greatest classification seniority may be reassigned to the area or transferred to the shift where the vacancy has occurred.
7.	The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise apply in full to Electronics.
67
MAINTENANCE JOB PROGRESSION CHART & NOTES -PLANT INDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE
MAINTENANCE SERVICE OPERATORS		
Salary Group	Time	Qualification
B	64 Mos.	4 Skills
C	52 Mos.	Time Only
D	40 Mos.	3 Skills
F	25 Mos.	2 Skills
G	15 Mos.	Time Only
H	3 Mos.	1 Skill
L	-	start
JOURNEYMAN
APPRENTICE IV
APPRENTICE III
APPRENTICE II
r
APPRENTICE I
LABOURER
1.	In the Plant Industrial Maintenance Department, the Plumber, Gasfitter, Machinist, Millwright, Carpenter, Welder, Crane and Hoisting Equipment Operator, Steamfitter-Pipefitter Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic, Painter and Decorator and any other applicable apprenticeship programs may be made available.
68
2.	It is the recognized and continuing responsibility of every employee in the department, regardless of their particular skills, to become knowledgeable and flexible with all of the work encompassed by the Department.
3.	a) Apprentices may be hired at Level I, II, III or IV.
b)	All Apprenticeship positions will be posted through the Internal Posting System.
c)	An Apprentice shall be rotated among any of the areas of the department to allow maximum exposure to the types of eguipment relevant to the level of Apprenticeship, or to allow another apprentice to receive such exposure.
d)	An Apprentice who withdraws from Apprenticeship will be reclassified to Labourer. The employee's Classification Seniority will commence on the date returned to the Labourer classification. The rate of pay on reclassification will be set at the Labourers' rate applicable to the employees' Area Seniority.
4.	A Labourer will be entitled to apply for other jobs in the department in accordance with Article 11.08. In no event, should a successful applicant's pay be reduced by more than one pay classification.
5.	Notwithstanding Article 11.07, a portion of maintenance work will be contracted out; however, in the event of a reduction in the work force, Letter of Understanding Number 4 would apply.
6.	Overtime Distribution, in accordance with Master Maintenance Progression Note 6, shall be within each area namely: Refurbishment & Manufacturing, Extraction and Infrastructure Maintenance. In the Extraction Maintenance area the procedures covering overtime on days off agreed to and posted February 7, 2002 may only be changed by the Area Management in consultation with the area Steward(s). It is the Company's intent that mutual agreement be reached on these procedures.
7.	The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise apply in full to the department.
69
MINE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
JOB PROGRESSION CHART
SUPPORT AND TIRE PROGRESSION
70
MINE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	In Mine Equipment Maintenance, the Heavy Equipment Technician, Automotive Service Technician, Welder, Millwright, Machinist, Crane and Hoisting Equipment Operator or any other applicable apprenticeship may be made available.
2.	The chit system shall apply to each of the following groups independently, namely, Mine Equipment Shop Trades, Maintenance Services Shop Trades, Shovel Maintenance Trades, and Support & Tire Progression. For the purposes of overtime in Mine Equipment Shop Trades, employees may elect to chit for trucks, tracks or both.
3.	Apprentices may be rotated among any of the areas defined in Note 2 above, with the exception of Support and Tire Progression to allow maximum exposure to the types of equipment relevant to their level of apprenticeship, or to allow another apprentice to receive such exposure. Apprentices assigned to one of the above areas on a temporary basis will continue to accumulate overtime based on actual overtime hours worked by that apprentice.
4.	a) Any employee hired into other than a Journeyman or
Apprentice IV classification shall be classified as Labourer, however, an employee may be hired at the Apprentice II or III level when an apprenticeship contract in level II or III is cancelled or for balancing the Apprenticeship Program upon failure in the II or III level.
b)	Employees hired as Labourers will progress in accordance with Article 11.01(a) and Mine Equipment Maintenance Support and Tire Progression Notes and Chart.
c)	If a permanent vacancy occurs in the Support and Tire Progression, the senior employee in the next lower classification shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01(a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
d)	Employees will receive sufficient exposure and training to qualify for promotion.
71
e)	i) When filling a temporary vacancy, the senior trained
employee on the shift and in the area concerned in the next lower classification will be moved up and paid accordingly. If such employee is not available, the Company shall utilize the senior employee otherwise considered qualified.
ii)	Prior to being promoted, a Steam Bay Operator will select Lube, Tire, or Field Labourer. If operating conditions require, the Company has the right to assign the Steam Bay Operator on each shift to any of the three jobs. Until permanently assigned to one of the jobs Steam Bay operators may be utilized in any of the three jobs.
iii)	Employees working in the Support and Tire Progression will have the opportunity to apply for shift reassignment only once they have reached the top of the progression.
f)	For training, qualification and move-up purposes, the positions on the Mine Equipment Maintenance Support and Tire Progressions will be designated at all times except in the case of unscheduled overtime. However, employees may be temporarily assigned to other than assigned duties as operating conditions require and for cross training purposes.
g)	Employees in the Support and Tire Progression shall receive pay increments as outlined in Appendix "A".
5.	An Apprentice who withdraws from an Apprenticeship will be reclassified to Labourer in accordance with the rate of pay for his area service as indicated in Appendix "A". However, his classification seniority will commence on the date he returns to the Labourer classification.
6.	For the purposes of overtime coverage the following will apply provided the employee can work his next regular shift and at regular pay.
72
a)	The following sequence will be utilized for filling vacancies in trades groups as specified in note #2: Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off.
b)	When overtime is required, the following is the basis for selecting employees for overtime:
i)	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list, in the trade, who have submitted chits in accordance with (a) above.
ii)	Secondly, to the qualified employees lowest on the overtime list, in the trade, who have submitted chits not in accordance with (a) above.
iii)	Thirdly, if insufficient chits are received, qualified employees, in the trade, lowest on the overtime list may be assigned to overtime.
c)	The following sequence will be utilized for filling vacancies in Support and Tire Progression as specified in note #2:
i)	If overtime is required and a chit has been received from an employee currently assigned to the original vacant position he will be assigned the overtime.
ii)	If no chit has been received from an employee currently assigned to the vacant position the shift will be moved up, and an employee in the area who has submitted a chit and who is permanently assigned to the next lowest classification will be assigned the overtime.
d)	Notwithstanding Article 6.08, overtime lists are to be zeroed every three (3) months.
e)	The Supervisor will exhaust all the chits, including late chits, in the group where overtime is being scheduled before going to other groups.
f)	The Company will make every reasonable effort to contact employees for overtime between 07:00 - 09:30 or 17:00 -19:00 hours respective of their chits.
73
7.	Before filling any permanent vacancy within M.E.M. Department, employees who have submitted a request for reassignment, prior to the vacancy occurring, or who have submitted a written request for a transfer to a different shift schedule and who has the greatest area seniority may be reassigned to the area or transferred to the shift where the vacancy has occurred.
8.	The Master Maintenance Progression and Notes otherwise apply in full to Mine Equipment Maintenance.
9.	M.E.M will staff all operational lube islands with a qualified employee who is in the progression where such position is required for lubing and/or fueling of haul trucks. This role only needs to be staffed when haul trucks are being routed to lube islands for lubing and/or fueling. This does not remove the requirement that drivers are responsible for checking their own fluid levels and topping up fluid levels as necessary.
74
EXTRACTION OPERATOR SALARY
AND JOB PROGRESSION CHART
Extraction Operator salary and job progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:
Steepbank		Millennium		Secondary
				
(2) Unit Leaders		(1) Unit Leader		(1) Unit Leader
						I
(2) Control Room Operators		(1) Control Room Operator		(2) Control Room Operators
Salary Group	Time	Phase	Plant 300/82 Function	Time	Phase	Plant 85/86 Function	Time	Phase	Plant 4/16/87 Function
B	48	6	West	48	7	FTPH	48	7	Pump
	Mos.		Side	Mos.			Mos.		Floor
C	38	5	FTPH	38	6	Time	38	6	IPS
	Mos.			Mos.		Only	Mos.		
D	28	4	Area	29	5	Area	29	5	Time
	Mos.			Mos.			Mos.		Only
E	19	3	Senior	19	4	Utilities	19	4	Lead
	Mos.		82	Mos.			Mos.		West
F				12	3	Time			
				Mos.		Only			
G							12	3	Birds
							Mos.		
H	12	2	Wet	9	2	OPP			
	Mos.		End	Mos.		(x2)			
i							6	2	West
							Mos.		
j	6	1	Dry	3	1	Time	3	1	Time
	Mos.		End	Mos.		Only	Mos.		Only
L		0	Trainee		0	Trainee		0	Trainee
All time refers to Extraction Operations continuous service.
* Upon transfer of all Tailings lines to SD8, the Utility position shall no longer be required or staffed.
75
EXTRACTION PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	a) Within the Extraction Department the total complement per shift shall be as follows:
•	Steepbank Extraction: 2 Unit Leaders, 2 CRO's & 6 Operators
•	Millennium Extraction: 1 Unit Leader, 1 CRO & 5 Operators
•	Secondary Extraction: 1 Unit Leader, 2 CRO's & 5 Operators
b)	For training and qualification purposes, and for normal operations the positions outlined will be designated in each plant.
Steepbank Extraction:
Unit Leader (2), Control Room Operators (2), West Side, FTPH, Area, Senior 82, Wet, Dry
Millennium Extraction:
Unit Leader, Control Room Operator, FTPH, Area, Utilities, OPP (x2)
Secondary Extraction:
Unit Leader, Control Room Operators (2), Pumps, Lead West, IPS, Birds, West
c)	while the total shift complement will be maintained in accordance with Article 11.01(e), an employee may be temporarily assigned, in accordance with Extraction note 3, to other than his regular position for training purposes or as operating conditions require.
d)	employees requesting a transfer from one line of progression to another will be given first consideration. Upon such transfer he shall be established at the trainee level and advancement in the new progression will be based on qualification and time requirements for that progression but his salary group will not be reduced.
76
e)	to attain a trainee position, one must have successfully completed, the Extraction CBT Training Modules or Part "A" of the Fourth Class Power Engineering Certificate. Consideration will also be given to previous processing experience and/or an equivalent diploma/certificate issued by an accredited college related to processing operations. Labourers in Plant Support will have first opportunity for trainee positions, provided they have requested a transfer.
2.	If a permanent vacancy occurs, the Senior qualified employee shall be promoted in accordance with article 11.01(a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
3.	Shift staffing shall recognize seniority and the established sequence of job progression. The company shall not realign employees without regard to their service, qualifications and experience. Such realignment will be for shift coverage and training purposes only, with an employee normally moving to the next higher job in the progression for which he is qualified.
4.	An employee when designated to cover an extraction operator continuous shift position shall be deemed qualified in that position. However in order to qualify for a phase progression an employee must complete the experience requirements.
5.	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to provide sufficient opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
6.	Unit leaders qualified in both Primary Extraction progressions may exchange positions should the company and the employee agree. Control room operators in extraction may if the company agrees rotate between the plants for training purposes only.
7.	A shift staffing list which indicates currently assigned positions will be posted and updated whenever changes occur. This does not prevent realignment of employees on their normal shift for training or shift staffing.
77
8.	For Operators and Trainees within a phased progression, to remain current in a position for which they are qualified, they must work each position for 3 consecutive shifts (or 6 random shifts) once every two rolling years. Maintenance of this currency will be done on a voluntary basis until the time limit is exceeded, after which it will be scheduled.
9.	Notwithstanding Article 6.08(d), overtime hours in the Extraction Department will be averaged only upon permanent entry into the area, or as covered by Article 6.08(e).
10.	As employees qualify at each phase within the progression, they will receive the appropriate corresponding rate of pay taking into consideration their skills and qualifications.
11.	Plant Support Equipment Operator Salary and Job Progression Chart
Plant Support Equipment Operator Salary and Job Progression from Phase to Phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:
Qualification	Minimum Time	Salary Group
5 of 5	48 Mos.	B
4 of 5	39 Mos.	C
3 of 5	31 Mos.	D
Time Only	25 Mos.	E
2 of 5	16 Mos.	F
Time Only	9 Mos.	G
1 of S	3 Mos.	H
Start	—	L
All time refers to Extraction Operations continuous service.
78
12. Plant Support progression will consist of Equipment Operator and Labourer. (It is noted that for the life of the Collective Agreement expiring May 1st 2016 that the Plant Support Progression will have four full-time employees per shift.)
a)	As openings arise employees will be hired into the Plant Support Progression.
b)	The Equipment Operator progression to the "B" rate will be 48 months in duration. There will be three functions for salary progression qualifications purposes as follows: Rake Cat, Loader and BobCat. In addition to the above, employees will be expected to qualify in and may be assigned to other functions performed within the progression.
c)	Labourer in Plant Support will have first opportunity for Equipment Operator vacancies, provided they have requested such transfer. A Labourer in Plant Support who obtains an Equipment Operator position, will be credited with time spent as a labourer in Plant Support towards the 64 month progression to Equipment Operator up to a maximum of 15 months. A Labourer in Plant Support who obtains an Equipment Operator position and has completed 25 months and the qualifications for phase 4 will begin at the "F" rate of pay.
d)	Temporary upgrade to Equipment Operator will be paid G rate of pay.
e)	Overtime in the plant support progression will be distributed as per Extraction progression note 7.
79
13. Extraction Fine Tailings Operator Salary and Job Progression Chart
Extraction Fine Tailings Operator salary and job progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:
(1) CONTROL ROOM OPERATOR
n
Phase	Qualification	Minimum Time	Salary Group
7	Support	48 Mos.	B
6	Thin Fine Tailings	38 Mos.	C
5	Time Only	29 Mos.	D
4	South Tailings Pond	22 Mos.	E
3	Time Only	16 Mos.	F
2	Area	12 Mos.	H
1	Utility	6 Mos.	J
0	Start	-	L
All time refers to Extraction Operations continuous service.
14.	a) Within the Extraction Fine Tailings Department, the total
complement per shift shall be 1 CRO, 5 Operators.
b) For training and qualification purposes, and for normal operations, the positions outlined will be designated: CRO, Support, Thin Fine Tailings, South Tailings Pond, Area, and Utility.
15.	The Extraction Fine Tailings Operator progression shall follow Appendix "C" Overtime Coverage for Extraction/Upgrading Progression.
80
UPGRADING OPERATOR SALARY AND JOB PROGRESSION CHART
Upgrading Operator Salary and Job Progression from Phase to Phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:
COKER & OFFPLOTS/TANKFARM PROGRESSION
		Plant 5 Cokers Unit Leader		Plant 52 Cokers Unit Leader		Offplots/Tankfarm Unit leader		Salary Group
Phase	Min. Time	Coker Functions		Coker Functions		Offplots/Tankfarm Functions		
6	48 Mos.	Coker Tech A	3 of 3	Coker Tech A	3 of 3	North Tankfarm	4 of 5	8
5	36 Mos.	Time Only		Time Only		Waste Water	3 of 5	C
4	24 Mos.	Time Only		Time Only		56 East	2 of 5	F
3	12 Mos.	Coker II	2 of 3	Coker B	2 of 3	56 West	1 of 5	G
2	6 Mos.	Time Only		Time Only		South Tankfarm		H
1	3 Mos.	Coker I	1 of 3	Coker T	1 of 3	Time Only		1
	Start	Trainee		Trainee		Trainee		L
All times refers to Upgrading Department continuous service.
81
FIXED PLANT PROGRESSIONS
	Phase		Ut Primary		U1 Hydro		U2 Primary		U2 Hydro		U1 Sulphur		U2 Sulphur		
	2		Plant	2	Plant	2	Plant	2	Plant	2	Plant	2	Plant	2	
			58,25	of 2	6&7	of 2	528,57	of 2	648,66	of 2	8Si9	of 2	538,68	of 2	
i			Unit		Unit		Unit		548,55		Unit		Unit		
			Leader		Leader		Leader		Unit		Leader		Leader		
a <									Leader						
															
tn	l		Board	i	Board	i	Board	i	Board	1	Board	1	Board	1	
			Oper.	of 2	Oper.	of 2	Oper.	of 2	Oper.	of 2	Oper.	of2	Oper.	of 2	
	Phase	Min.	Plant		Plant		Plant		Plant		Plant		Plant		Salary
		Time	5 & 25		6 & 7		52 & 57		64 & 66		8&S		53 868		Group
			functions		Functions		Functions		548155		Functions		Functions		
									Functions						
	4	48	Plant	2	C.H.	3	Plant	2	Plant	2	Plant	2	Plant	2	B
		Mos.	25	of 2		of 3	57	of 2	64/66	of 3	9	of 2	68	of 2	
	3	36	Time		Plant	2	Time		Plant		Time		Time		C
		Mos.	Only		7	of 3	Only		55		Only		Only		
	2	24	Time		Time		Time		Time		Time		Time		F
LU Z		Mos.	Only		Only		Only		Only		Only		Only		
hi	1	12	Plant	1	Plant	1	Plant	1	Plant	1	Plant	1	Plant	1	G
1		Mos.	5	Of 2	6	of 3	52	of 2	54	of 3	8	of 2	53	of 2	
		6	Time		lime		Time		Time		Time		Time		H
		Mos.	Only		Only		Only		Only		Only		Only		
		3	Time		Time		Time		Time		Time		Time		i
		Mos.	Only		Only		Only		Only		Only		Only		
		Start	Trainee		Trainee		Trainee		Trainee		Trainee		Trainee		L
All times refers to Upgrading Department continuous service.
Designation Fixed Plant	Phase 1 and 2	Plant Operator
Phase 3 and 4	Senior Operator
Cokers & Offplots Phase 1 of 6	Operator
The designation of Senior Operator, Plant Operator and Operator recognize level of achievement in salary and job progression only.
82
UPGRADING OPERATOR PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	a) Within the Upgrading Department, the total complement per shift shall be as follows:
Nine (9) Unit Leaders Forty-four (44) Operators
b)	For training and qualification purposes, and for normal operations, the following positions will be designated.
Unit Leaders
-	Plant 5 & 25, Plant 6 & 7, Plant 8 & 9, Plant 5 Cokers
-	Plant 52 & 57, Plant 54 & 55, Plant 53 & 68, Plant 52 Cokers
-	Offplots and Tankfarm Operators
-	Plants 5 & 25 Board (2), Plant 8 & 9 Board,
-	Plants 52 & 57 Board (2), Plants 53 & 68 Board
- Plants 6 & 7 Board, Plants 54 & 55 Board (2)
- Plants 5 (2), 6, 7 (2), 8, 9, 25, 52 (2), 53, 54, 55 (2), 57, 64/66, 68 & Compressors
-	North Tankfarm, South Tankfarm, Waste Water, Plant 56 West, Plant 56 East
-	Plant 5 Coker Tech A, Coker II (4), Coker I (2)
-	Plant 52 Coker Tech A, Coker B (3), Coker T
c)	While the total shift complement will be maintained in accordance with Article 11.01(e), an employee may be temporarily assigned, in accordance with Upgrading Note 3, to other than his regular position for training purposes or as operating conditions require.
d)	A third class Power Engineering Certificate is mandatory prior to attaining qualification in the Fixed Plant Progression of Plants 8 & 9, and the Plants 53 & 68.
83
e)	A fourth class Power Engineering Certificate is mandatory prior to attaining a training position in the Fixed Plant Progressions.
f)	Employees in the Fixed Plant Progressions will be paid an allowance for Power Engineering Certificates as per Appendix "A".
2.	If a permanent vacancy occurs, the senior qualified employee within the progression shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01 (a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion. Progression seniority will be the determining factor to determine move up.
3.	Shift staffing shall recognize seniority and the established sequence of job progression. The Company shall not realign employees without regard to their service, qualification and experience. Such realignment will be for shift coverage and training purposes only, with an employee normally moving to the next higher job in the Progression for which he is qualified. A shift staffing list which indicates currently assigned positions will be updated and posted when changes occur.
4.	An employee when designated to cover an Upgrading Operator continuous shift position shall be deemed qualified in that position. However, in order to qualify for phase progression an employee must complete the experience requirements.
5.	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to provide sufficient opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
6.	For Operators and Trainees within a phased progression, to remain current in a position for which they are qualified, they must work each position for 3 consecutive shifts (or 6 random shifts) once every one rolling year. Maintenance of this currency will be done on a voluntary basis until the time limit is exceeded, after which it will be scheduled.
84
7.	Employees in Upgrading Operations who have provided written notice in advance of a vacancy occurring in one of the other Upgrading progressions will be given first consideration to fill the vacancy. If more than one applicant, the employee with the most area seniority will be considered first. Upon such transfer, the employee will be established at the Trainee Level however their salary will not be reduced. Advancement in the new progression will be based on qualifications and time requirements for that progression except as follows. Employees who transfer progressions under this provision will be entitled to salary increases based on their previous progression for the first twelve (12) months following their transfer. Employee's will be expected to maintain qualifications in their previous progression for this twelve (12) months period and may be assigned to those functions for shift coverage or as operating conditions require.
a)	In order to protect the seniority rights of those employees who provide written notice in advance of a vacancy occurring yet are held back by the company due to manpower constraints, the employee shall retain full area progression seniority rights over any employee(s) who;
i)	was newly hired and assigned a trainee position;
ii)	has transferred in from another department on or after the day, or date in which the written notice to move from one progression to another was approved.
8.	Employees hired before July 2, 1980 will not be required to obtain Steam Tickets and will not suffer any loss of pay or .any loss of opportunity for promotion or phase progression. This loss of pay protection does not include payment for Power Engineering Certificates.
9.	The Power Engineering Program currently in place to assist employees to obtain their fourth and third class stationary engineers certificates will be continued in full and can be altered by management at any time for the benefit of the employees. This provision does not apply to employees in the Coker Progressions.
85
10.	Overtime in the Upgrading Progressions will be distributed as per Appendix "C".
11.	Notwithstanding Article 6.08 (d), overtime hours in the Upgrading Department will be averaged only upon permanent entry into the area, or as covered in 6.08 (e).
12.	To attain a coker trainee position in Plants 5 and 52, one must have completed at least one of the following, i) Upgrading's CBT Training modules, ii) Part 'A' of the Fourth Class Power Engineering Certificate, iii) relevant previous process operator experience.
13.	As employees qualify at each phase within the progression, they will receive the appropriate corresponding rate of pay taking into consideration their skills and qualifications.
14.	Progression trainers will be used based on area needs.
86
LABORATORY TECHNICIAN SALARY AND JOB PROGRESSION CHART
Laboratory Technician salary and job progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with Note 4 and the following:
UNIT LEADER
Designation*	Phase	Qualification	Min. Time	Salary Group
SENIOR TECHNICIAN**	10	6 of 8 & Multi-Skilling	64 Mos.	B-1
	9	Time Only	48 Mos.	B
	8	5 of 8	42 Mos.	C
INTERMEDIATE	7	Time Only	36 Mos.	D
TECHNICIAN	6	4 of 6	30 Mos.	E
	5	Time Only	24 Mos.	F
	4	3 of 6	18 Mos.	G
	3	Time Only	12 Mos.	H
TECHNICIAN	2	2 of 6	8 Mos.	1
"A"	1	1 of 6	4 Mos.	J
	0	Start	-	L
FUNCTIONS:
4 of 6	6 of 8
Waters	GC
Extraction	QA
Upgrading 1 & 3	ICP
Upgrading 2 & 4	Projects
ICP	Waters
Projects	
* The designations of Senior Technician, Intermediate Technician and Technician "A" recognize level of achievement in salary and job progression only.
** Represents a maximum of 50% of technicians within the progression. Multi-Skilling is defined instrument care and repair.
87
LABORATORY TECHNICIAN PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	a) Within the laboratory there shall be a minimum of four (4)
Unit Leaders, fifteen (15) Laboratory Technicians Days, three (3) Laboratory Technicians per continuous shift.
b)	For training and qualification purposes, the following functions will be designated:
Unit Leader
Waters - 1 & 2
Extraction - 1 & 2
Upgrading - 1 & 3
Upgrading - 2 & 4
Projects
GC
ICP
QA
* Numbers beside the functions, representing separate qualifications within the function, are subject to change due to laboratory business requirements..
c)	While the total complement of shift personnel shall be maintained, a day or shift employee may be temporarily assigned to other than his regular position for training purposes or as work priorities require. Qualified Technicians will be rotated through functions for which they are qualified to ensure that their qualifications remain current, provided that the effective efficient operation of the laboratory is maintained.
i)	Nightshift qualification will be 2 of the "4 of 6" list of functions.
d)	Upon certification of each phase within the laboratory progression, the company will supply the employee with a certificate stating that the phases and positions for which the employee is qualified.
2.	a) If a permanent laboratory technician day vacancy occurs, the
senior qualified employee on continuous shift shall be given first opportunity for assignment to days.
88
b)	If a permanent vacancy occurs the senior qualified employee will be promoted in accordance with article 11.01 (a) and be paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
3.	An employee when designated to cover a shift position, senior technician position, or unit leader position shall be deemed qualified in that position.
However, in order to qualify for a salary phase progression an employee must complete the time requirements.
4.	Employees will receive exposure in the phase function to provide sufficient opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
5.	The following guidelines will apply for the coverage of temporary shift vacancies provided the employee can work his next regular shift and at regular pay:
a)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form on their first day shift prior to the employee's scheduled days off.
b)	When overtime is required, the following is the basis for selecting employees for overtime:
i)	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits in accordance with (a).
ii)	Secondly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits not in accordance with (a).
iii)	Thirdly, if insufficient chits are received, qualified employees lowest on the distribution list will be assigned the overtime.
iv)	The following guidelines will apply when a temporary vacancy occurs on a nightshift: If there are insufficient chits, qualified technicians with the lowest overtime hours will be assigned the nightshift. When temporary vacancies occur on both a night shift and a day shift, the temporary on the night shift will be filled first.
89
c)	An employee, upon returning to work, may request his/her supervisor to mark him/her refused for the hours of overtime which he/she could have worked had he/she submitted a chit.
The laboratory supervisor will accept written requests for refused overtime hours for a period of seven (7) days following the start of the overtime shift worked.
After the seven days, the person with the lowest overtime hours who has submitted a request for refused hours shall be marked as having refused the overtime opportunity provided he/she has lower hours than the individual who actually worked it.
d)	Persons who chit for overtime must be available for contact by phone between 7:30 to 8:30 or 18:30 to 19:30 respective to their chit.
e)	Temporary vacancies between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., shift or day position, will be filled at the discretion of the laboratory supervisor dependent on the priority of the work involved except for the unit leader position which will be filled at all times in accordance with article 11.01 (c).
90
MATERIALS DISTRIBUTION DEPARTMENT SALARY AND JOB PROGRESSION CHART
MATERIALS DISTRIBUTION DEPARTMENT PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	A rotation system shall be established to provide sufficient exposure and training to enable employees to qualify for progression to the next phase within the minimum time period.
2.	Any temporary move-up will be given to the most senior qualified person performing the work in the warehouse where the vacancy occurred.
3.	For purposes of covering shift vacancies the following will apply:
i) Employees may volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off by doing so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off.
91
ii)	The employee lowest on the overtime distribution list who has submitted a chit will be assigned the overtime. If insufficient chits are received, qualified employees lowest on the overtime distribution list will be assigned the overtime. Refusal of overtime shall not be considered as overtime worked for record purposes, and will not be recorded on the bi-weekly overtime list.
iii)	For temporary shift vacancies in the Warehouse, the provision of Article 5.08(b) will not apply for twelve hour Compressed Work Week Continuous Shift Schedule.
4.	Two Year Shift Rotation: An employee may submit a request indicating their preferred shift in advance of the rotation. The shift rotation assignment starts at the top of the Warehouse Seniority list every two years and works down the list until all shifts are filled.
5.	Interim Shift Openings: When a shift becomes vacant or a new shift is created in the interim, the open shift will first be offered to the most senior warehouse technician based on the warehouse seniority list. If, after going down the warehouse seniority list, no existing warehouse technician chooses the open shift, the new hire will fill the vacancy.
92
MINE / TAILINGS DEPARTMENT SALARY AND JOB PROGRESSION CHART
Salary progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:
SENIOR OPERATOR MAINTAINER/OPERATOR
PHASE	MINE QUALIFICATION	TAILINGS QUALIFICATION	MIN. TIME	SALARY GROUP
7	4 of 9	4 of 6	64 Mos.	B
6	Time Only	Time Only	52 Mos.	C
5	3 of 9	3 of 6	40 Mos.	D
4	2 of 9	2 of 6	25 Mos.	F
3	Time Only	Time Only	15 Mos.	G
2	1 of 9	1 of 6	3 Mos.	H
1	Start	Start	—	L
All time refers to Continuous Service in either Mine Department or Tailings Department but not combined.
93
MINE / TAILINGS DEPARTMENTS PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	a) All training opportunities will be done by seniority.
I.	Within the Mine Department there shall be 9 functions for salary progression qualification purposes as follows: Operation of: Loader, Dozer, Grader, Mechanical Truck, Support Truck, Electrical Truck, Backhoe, Utility Operator, and Rubber Tire Dozer.
II.	Non-progression functions; Transporter and Motivator.
III.	The mine department is committed to training approximately 15% of the work force per shift on the 6 non truck progression functions.
b)	Within the Tailings Department there shall be six (6) functions for salary progression qualification purposes as follows: Cell Placement, Line Patrol, Boom Crew, Sideboom Operation, Forks Operation, Backhoe or Transporter, or Fuel Truck or Grader.
c)	When employees in the Mine Department first get hired on, they will have the opportunity to put their name under one of the 6 functions (Loader, Dozer, Grader, Backhoe, Utility Operator, Rubber Tire Dozer. Initial training opportunities will be based on seniority.
d)	After an employee in the Mine Department is qualified on all three truck functions, they will be eligible to get trained under one of the above 6 functions.
e)	Only after an employee in the Mine Department has completed training on one of the 6 non-truck functions will they be eligible to train on another function. An employee choosing not to select a function will have to wait until the next calendar year before getting an opportunity to choose again.
f)	Priority training will be given to employees who have not completed their Progression Training.
94
g)	If a vacancy occurs in one of the senior operator positions in the Mine Department, they will be given opportunity to transfer from one Senior Operator position to the other provided they are qualified. (For example - could transfer from shovel to trainer/operator back to shovel). This language does not preclude senior qualified B-rated employees from applying for either Trainer/Operator or Shovel Operator positions.
2.	In addition to the above, employees may be expected to qualify in and can be assigned to other functions performed within their respective Progression.
3.	Employees will receive sufficient exposure in the various functions to provide opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods.
4.	Operators requesting a transfer from one line of progression to another will be given first consideration. If more than one applicant, the employee with the most area seniority will be given consideration first. Upon such transfer he shall be established at his/her current operator level and will be frozen at their minimum progression time for a period of 12 months prior to their time advancing again.
5.	Mine Department Progression
a)	Within the Mine the Senior Operator position will include 15 Shovel Operators and 3 Senior Trainer/Operators per shift. Temporary vacancies in the senior operator positions shall be filled in accordance with Article 11.01(c).
b)	Upon completion of phase 6, operators will select the senior operator position in which they wish to advance. If an insufficient number of employees have selected to progress in any of the senior operator positions, the Company may assign the junior employee on each shift who has completed phase 6 to progress in that senior operator position.
95
c)	The B-1 rate shall be paid to employees classified as senior operator or performing a function in the Senior Operator classification other than for their own training. The A-1 rate shall be paid to employees classified as Senior Shovel Operator or performing a function in the Shovel Operator classification other than for their own training.
d)	The most senior operator in possession of a blasting certificate and designated to a blasting crew shall receive the "A-1" rate of pay while engaged in blasting duties.
6.	Tailings Department Progression
a)	Sufficient operators will be indentured into a welding apprenticeship program to ensure an adequate number of qualified Welders are available in the Tailings Department. As openings arise the senior qualified operator desiring apprenticeship in the welding trade will be indentured. For salary purposes those employees in the Tailings Department indentured in the welding trade will receive salary increases as follows:
i)	An operator who has completed three (3) of six (6) functions and is recognized as having completed forty (40) months qualifying service and the second year of the welding apprenticeship will be paid the "C" salary rate.
ii)	Should an employee be indentured into the welder Apprenticeship program with less than four (4) of six (6) functions, the employee will continue to progress to the higher salary groups in accordance with the defined time periods even though the employee may not meet the qualification requirements. At such time as the employee completes the second year of his welding apprenticeship and has satisfied the forty (40) month time requirement the employee will receive the "C" rate. At such time as the employee receives a Journeyman Certification and has satisfied the forty (40) month time requirement the employee will receive the "B” pay rate.
96
b)	Maintainer Operator: A qualified B-pressure welder who has a minimum of 24 months area seniority and who has qualified in the functions of Boom Crew, Forks and Sideboom will be paid the B-1 rate of pay. The Tailings Department will give the Maintainer/Operator appropriate training required for them to become qualified on the above functions within the 24 month period. Failure to provide the training will result in the employee receiving the B1 rate at the 24 month cutoff. This does not waive the employee's responsibilities to future training requirements.
7.	Permanent day, shift, or continuous shift positions shall be posted and filled from within the respective Department Progression by senior qualified employees in that Department on a different shift schedule.
8.	Those employees who are required to make a hot change will receive other allowances as per Appendix A for each shift. Employees will be compensated in accordance with the length of time spent executing a hot change.
It is understood that the number of employees required to make a hot change is dependent on the circumstances prevailing in the department at any given time.
The Company will make every reasonable effort in the distribution of assignments in order that qualified employees will receive equal opportunity insofar as is practical. In this regard Supervisors and Union Stewards will work together.
9.	Overtime in each the Mine Department and the Tailings Department will be distributed as per Appendix "C".
97
ENERGY & UTILITIES OPERATOR SALARY AND JOB PROGRESSION CHART
Energy & Utilities Operator salary and job progression from phase to phase shall be through seniority, experience, demonstrated knowledge and ability in accordance with the following:
UNIT LEADER
CONTROL ROOM OPERATOR
Designation	Phase	Function	Min. Time	Salary Group
Technician 5	5	Water Systems	48 Mos.	B
Technician 4	4	Lead Main Plant	36 Mos.	C
Technician 3	3	Time Only	24 Mos.	D
Technician 2	2	Main Plant	18 Mos.	F
Technician 1	1	Time Only	12 Mos.	G
Technician 1	1	FGD / Mat. Handling	6 Mos.	H
	0	Trainee	Start	L
All time refers to Energy and Utilities Operations Department Continuous Sen/ice.
98
ENERGY & UTILITIES OPERATOR PROGRESSION NOTES
1.	a) Within the Energy and Utilities Operations Department, the total complement per shift shall be as follows:
One (1) Unit Leader Eight (8) Operators
b)	For training, progression, and for normal operations, the following positions will be designated on each shift:
Unit Leader (1)
Control Room Operator (2)
Water Systems Operator (2)
Lead Main Plant Operator (1)
Main Plant Operator (2)
FGD/Materials Handling Operator (1)
It was further agreed that to maintain a complement of 9 in the instance of a short term absence (up to a maximum of 2 days) and to ensure that training continues, that the company may force to fill the vacancy rather than fill the vacancy with an operator who is training.
c)	While the total shift complement will be maintained in accordance with Article 11.01(e), an employee may be temporarily assigned, in accordance with Energy and Utilities Operations Note 3, to other than his regular position for training purposes or as operating conditions require.
d)	A Third Class Power Engineering Certificate is mandatory prior to training for or attaining CRO.
e)	A Fourth Class Power Engineering Certificate is mandatory prior to attaining Phase 2 qualification.
f)	That there will be a maximum of two trainees at any time with their part "A" of a Fourth Class Power Engineer Certificate "ABSA". These trainees will have a maximum time period of a year from their start date to get their full Fourth Class Power Engineering Certificate. Current employees at the time of signing the original MOU on July 8, 2011 within progression are exempt from this change.
99
g)	Employees will be paid an allowance for Power Engineering Certificates as per Appendix "A".
h)	Employees who are qualified in the Water Treatment position will be provided the required material and reasonable training to allow them to complete the Alberta Environment Level 1 Certification within two (2) years of Water Treatment qualification.
2.	If a permanent vacancy occurs, the senior qualified employee shall be promoted in accordance with Article 11.01(a) and paid accordingly. Time constraints shall not be cause for denying an employee a permanent promotion.
3.	Day to Day shift staffing shall recognize seniority and the established sequence of job progression. The Company shall not realign employees without regard to their service, qualification and experience. Such realignment will be for shift coverage and training purposes only, with an employee normally moving to the next higher job in the Progression for which he is qualified. Employees may be moved one (1) position lower than their normal position for no more than six (6) days in a six (6) month period for refresher training.
4.	An employee when designated to cover a Energy and Utilities Operator continuous shift position shall be deemed qualified in that position. However, in order to qualify for phase progression an employee must complete the experience requirements.
5.	Employees will receive exposure in the phase functions to provide sufficient opportunity for them to train and qualify within the minimum time periods. Immediately following qualification, employees will receive six (6) to twelve (12) working shifts exposure time in the phase in which they have just qualified.
6.	Overtime distribution will be in accordance with Appendix "C" overtime coverage.
100
7.	A shift staffing list which indicates currently assigned positions will be posted and updated whenever changes occur. This does not prevent realignment of employees on their normal shifts for training or shift staffing.
8.	The Power Engineering Program currently in place and described in a letter outside of the agreement to assist employees to obtain their Fourth, Third and Second class Power Engineers certificates will be continued in full and can be altered by management at any time for the benefit of the employees. Details of this program shall be made available to employees at their request.
101
APPENDIX "C
OVERTIME COVERAGE FOR EXTRACTION / UPGRADING / ENERGY & UTILITIES PROGRESSION
CHIT SYSTEM:
To the extent that these employees are committed and remain committed to making this system work, the Company will set aside the requirements of the standby system.
For the purposes of overtime coverage, the following will apply for the Fixed Plants, namely Upgrading, Progressions:
Consistent with Article 11.01(c) temporary shift vacancies will be filled in the following sequence:
a)	Realignment within the shift without overtime resulting.
b)	For the purposes of overtime coverage the following will apply provided the employee can work his next regular shift and at regular pay. Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off
i)	Priority of chits received.
-	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits in accordance with (b) above
-	Secondly to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits not in accordance with (b) above
ii)	If insufficient chits are received, qualified employees, lowest on the overtime list, may be assigned to overtime. If two or more employees have equal amount of hours then the junior employee will be assigned.
102
iii)	In accordance with (b)(i) above overtime will be firstly, in the vacant function worked by an employee qualified in that function; secondly, realignment within the shift with overtime in the resulting vacant function worked by an employee , qualified in that function.
c)	An employee, upon returning to work, may request his supervisor to mark him refused for the hours of overtime which he could have worked had he submitted a chit.
In the case where the chit system fails to provide minimum staffing
requirements, the following will apply:
a)	The Department will post an assigned standby schedule for all Department Operators on a quarterly basis, or as changes occur.
b)	The Superintendent will post quarterly the minimum number and minimum qualification of persons who must be on standby. The number of persons designated to be on standby shall be reasonable in relation to the anticipated number of absences from a shift for any reason. Employees on standby must be available for contact by phone between the hours of 6:30 to 8:30 and must report for work within one and one-quarter (1-1/4) hours of notice if called.
c)	Employees assigned to standby on the posted schedule will be permitted to exchange standby assignments with employees on their shift who have compatible qualifications. The Shift Supervisor must be notified of the change.
d)	Notwithstanding this note, a Supervisor may refuse to place an employee on standby for safety reasons only.
e)	The standby procedure may only be changed by Area Management in consultation with the Area Steward(s). It is the Company's intent that mutual agreement will be reached on these procedures.
f)	Consistent with Article 11.01 (c) temporary shift vacancies will be filled in the following sequence:
i)	Realignment within the shift without overtime resulting.
ii)	Overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for the group in which the vacancy originally occurs.
103
iii)	Realignment within the shift with overtime worked by an employee assigned to standby for the next group in which the resulting vacancy occurs.
iv)	Overtime in the vacant function worked by a qualified employee lowest on the overtime distribution list who has submitted a chit.
v)	Should employees in (iii) and (iv) decline the overtime, then the original standby employee must report for work.
g)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on any of their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off.
h)	Employees on standby will have first opportunity for overtime consistent with their standby schedule.
104
APPENDIX "C"
OVERTIME COVERAGE FOR MINE AND TAILINGS DEPARTMENT
For the purposes of overtime coverage in each of the Departments, separate from the other, the following will apply:
a)	Employees who volunteer for overtime on their scheduled days off will do so on a chit form at least two (2) working days prior to their scheduled days off.
b)	When overtime is required, the following is the basis for selecting employees for overtime:
i)	Firstly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits in accordance with (a).
ii)	Secondly, to qualified employees lowest on the overtime list who have submitted chits not in accordance with (a).
iii)	Thirdly, if insufficient chits are received, qualified employees lowest on the overtime distribution list may be assigned to overtime.
c)	The Company will make every reasonable effort to contact employees for overtime between 0630 and 0730 or 1830 to 1930 respective to their chit.
d)	An employee, upon returning to work, may request his supervisor to mark him refused for the hours of overtime which he could have worked had he submitted a chit.
e)	Where standby is required to efficiently operate the Plant, the Area Management will designate the coverage required and will, in consultation with the Area Steward(s), develop the necessary procedures to provide standby coverage.
f)	This procedure may only be changed by the Area Management in consultation with the area Steward(s). It is the Company's intent that mutual agreement will be reached on these procedures.
105
APPENDIX "D"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
RE: CLOTHING ALLOWANCE - ARTICLE 14.05 (C)
Lump sum payments for clothing will be based on the need in each area.
Both boots and clothing will be rated in variables of 0 - 3 with a
combined total indicating amount of money needed to sufficiently cover
the cost of clothing.
RATE 0:	Fire Resistant Outer clothing provided.
RATE 1:	Refleas areas where conditions are reasonably constant, (dry
and clean) with little or no exposure to seasonal variations. Wear factors would also be very low in these areas.
RATE 2:	Where conditions are more severe than Rate 1 but less than
in areas indicated by Rate 3.
RATE 3:	Where outside work would be the norm on a year round basis
and there is an exposure to seasonal variations. Those areas have high wear faaors for boots or clothing and also a high replacement and cleaning frequency.
Areas are rated as follows:
	BOOTS	CLOTHING	TOTAL
Mining/Tailings Operations	3	3	6
M.E.M.	3	3	6
Plant Industrial Maintenance: - Extr. Mech. Mtce.	3	3	6
- Energy Services Mtce.	2	3	5
- Facilities Mtce. Services	2	2	4
Extraction Operations: - Extraction Ops., Plant 3	3	3	6
- Extraction Ops., Plant 4	3	0	3
- Extraction Ops., Plant 300	3	3	6
-Extraction Fine Tailings	3	3	6
Upgrading Operations	3	0	3
Laboratory	2	1	3
Materials Distribution	2	2	4
Energy & Utilities	2	3	5
106
Electronics Clothing Allowance will be paid at the same value as the area an employee is assigned to.
SCALE	
2	$230.00
3	$255.00
4	$280.00
5	$305.00
6	$330.00
A winter clothing allowance will be provided in the amount of $125 annually for any employee who works the majority of their time in the outdoors and is not being supplied Nomex winter clothing.
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 9th day of December, 2013 in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
Roland Lefort President
Unifor Local 707-A
Brad Droppo
Director, Labour & Employee Relations Suncor Energy Inc.
107
APPENDIX "D"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
RE: OVERTIME - ARTICLE 6.08 (A)
This letter outlines the intentions of the parties with respect to Article 6.08 (a). It is not intended to affect the operation of existing chit systems.
It is understood and accepted that this provision is a "best efforts" overtime opportunity and not an absolute equalization clause. It is not intended that a Supervisor endeavour to equalize overtime on a day-today or a week-to-week basis, nor is it intended that he always offer overtime to the employee with the least hours in the pay classification.
Overtime lists are zero at the beginning of each calendar year. The list published mid-year is used as check point to determine where the emphasis should be to have the overtime opportunity distribution reasonably equalized by the end of the year.
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 9th day of December, 2013 in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
Roland Lefort President
Unifor Local 707-A
Brad Droppo
Director, Labour & Employee Relations Suncor Energy Inc.
108
APPENDIX "D"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
RE: PRODUCTIVITY AND EFFICIENCY ISSUES
The purpose of this letter is to establish a meaningful framework within which regularly scheduled discussions will occur on productivity and efficiency issues affecting the success of the company and alignment of employees with the goals of Oil Sands.
The parties agree to meet at mutually agreed times during the life of the Collective Agreement to discuss productivity issues with Oil Sands leaders.
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 9th day of December, 2013 in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
Roland Lefort President
Unifor Local 707-A
Brad Droppo
Director, Labour & Employee Relations Suncor Energy Inc.
109
APPENDIX "D"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
RE: ARTICLE 11.07 (C)
Employment of contractors for work expected to last in excess of ten (10) days to supplement bargaining unit work will only take place after discussion with and input from the Area Steward(s).
Prior to layoff of journeymen and/or apprentices in a given department, the Company will reduce journeymen and/or apprentices in the same trade who are employed by Contractors in the same department. In a department where contractors are employed for other than trades work, such contractors will be reduced prior to lay off of Bargaining Unit Employees in that department employed in similar work.
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 9th day of December, 2013 in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
Roland Lefort President
Unitor Local 707-A
Brad Droppo
Director, Labour & Employee Relations Suncor Energy Inc.
110
APPENDIX "D"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5
RE: S.H.I.R.T. FUND
As part of the current wage settlement the Company agrees to remit three (3c) per hour for each full time employee's regular hours of work to a Safety Health and Industrial Relations Training Fund of the C.E.P. on a quarterly basis.
The Union agrees that the sole purpose of this fund will be to provide training to its members primarily those from Suncor Inc. O.S.G. in the areas specified above.
The Union further agrees that the content of the Safety and Health programs will be consistent with current Safety and Health Programs endorsed by Suncor Inc., O.S.G. (i.e. Journey to Zero).
The Union also agrees to furnish the Company on an annual basis, a listing of the courses to be presented to its Suncor members at Unifor Local 707-A.
The Union agrees to provide a fund audit as requested.
The Union agrees that the Company will be invited to have input to the type and content of the training supported by this fund.
Leave of Absence will be in accordance with Article 10 of the Collective Agreement.	'
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 9th day of December, 2013 in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
Roland Lefort President
Unifor Local 707-A
Brad Droppo
Director, Labour & Employee Relations Suncor Energy Inc.
111
APPENDIX "D"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #6
RE: UNION MANAGEMENT MEETINGS
The purpose of this letter is to establish regular scheduled meetings between the Area Job Stewards and Area Management. Those meetings to be scheduled quarterly, will be to discuss any unsolved problems in the area that are appropriate with the intent that both parties continue to improve relationships.
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 9th day of December, 2013 in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
Roland Lefort President
Unifor Local 707-A
Brad Droppo
Director, Labour & Employee Relations Suncor Energy Inc.
112
APPENDIX "D"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #7
RE: HARASSMENT
The Company and the Union recognize the right of employees to work in an environment free from sexual or workplace harassment, and to be treated fairly and with respect in the workplace. The purpose of this letter is to outline activities for both the Company and the Union to provide a workplace environment that is productive and promotes both the dignity and self-esteem of all employees.
For the purpose of this joint initiative, Sexual Harassment means any unwelcome behaviour of a sexual nature that causes offence or humiliation to any employee or that might be perceived by the employee as placing a condition of a sexual nature on any employment relationship.
Workplace harassment means any unwelcome behaviour, which creates an intimidating, threatening or hostile work environment such that an employee's performance is impaired, the employment relationship is adversely affected or the employee's dignity or respect is denied.
It is both a right and a responsibility of all employees who believe that they have been subjected to unacceptable behaviour to first ask the instigator to stop the unwelcome behaviour.
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 9th day of December, 2013 in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
Roland Lefort President
Unifor Local 707-A
Brad Droppo
Director, Labour & Employee Relations Suncor Energy Inc.
113
APPENDIX "D"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #8
RE: ELECTRONICS NOTE 6, MEM NOTE 7, AND PLANT INDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE PROGRESSION
The following components are considered when employees in the Electronics, MEM and PIM departments request reassignment to other areas of their respective departments.
At least twelve (12) months since the last reassignment request granted. This time limit will not apply to requests for shift reassignments.
Request for reassignment must be submitted in advance of vacancy occurring.
As an opening occurs and based on the above, preference for reassignment shall be given to the senior qualified employee. For employees in the Plant Industrial Maintenance department, classification seniority will apply.
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 9th day of December, 2013 in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo..
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
Roland Lefort President
Unifor Local 707-A
Brad Droppo
Director, Labour & Employee Relations Suncor Energy Inc.
114
APPENDIX "D"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #9
RE: BANKED OVERTIME
This will confirm our discussions with respect to personal time off needs of employees assigned to "R" type shifts. These employees normally would not work on Statutory Holidays and therefore have limited opportunity to accumulate banked time.
The Company will undertake to modify the Payroll system to accommodate banking of overtime for Bargaining Unit personnel assigned to "R" shifts.
"R" Shift employees will be permitted to accumulate up to fifty-six (56) hours of banked time, inclusive of Banked Statutory Holiday time. This means that for each Statutory Holiday hour banked, one less overtime hour bankable. (If all of the Banked Time is due to Statutory Holidays, then the Collective Agreement provisions apply in full.) Banking of overtime hours will be either two (2) for each hour worked or one (1) banked, one (1) paid for each hour worked. The most cost effective of these will be used in the programming of the payroll system.
Debanking of banked overtime will normally only be permitted provided overtime does not result on that day and provided the supervisor can reschedule the work the person would otherwise do that day. It is intended that best efforts will be made to accommodate the employees request with due regard to the cost effectiveness of the operation.
This letter shall form part of the Collective Agreement signed this 9th day of December, 2013 in the Municipality of Wood Buffalo.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
Roland Lefort President
Unifor Local 707-A
Brad Droppo
Director, Labour & Employee Relations Suncor Energy Inc.
APPENDIX "E"
REVISED JOB POSTING PROCESS - ARTICLE 11.08
This is intended for explanation purposes and does not supercede the process text
Other Changes:
•	Standing applications are now valid for the calendar year in which they are submitted
•	If an employee declines an offer, is not available for contact, or does not respond to an offer he/she will not be eligible to apply for the same job for the balance of that calendar year
•	The re-assignment process has been aligned with this process
-	requests for re-assignment will now be valid for the calendar year in which they are submitted
-	if an employee declines an offer they will not be permitted to re-assign to the same area for the balance of that calendar year
116
2013 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W.
I-2, J-2, K-2, L-2
JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	MAR
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8'	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31	NOV	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31							
DAYS	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	1-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	1-2	1-2	J-2
NIGHTS	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	1-2	L-2	1-2
117
2014 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W.
I-2, J-2, K-2, L-2
JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	MAR
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31	NOV	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31							
DAYS L-2	L-2	L-2	I-2	I-2	I-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2
NIGHTS K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	I-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2
118
2015 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W.
I-2, J-2, K-2, L-2
JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5
5	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	MAR
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31	NOV	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31							
DAYS	I-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	I-2	I-2
NIGHTS	L-2	I-2	I-2	I-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2
119
2016 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W.
I-2, J-2, K-2, L-2
JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
MAR	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	• 8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31	NOV	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31						
DAYS K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	I-2	I-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2
NIGHTS J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	I-2	1-2	1-2	J-2
120
2013 SHIFT SCHEDULE - 12 HOUR C.W.W.
E-1, E-2, E-3, E-4,1-3, J-3, K-3, L-3,1-9, J-9, K-9, L-9,1-1, J-1, K-1, L-1,1-4, J-4, K-4, L-4
JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	FEB
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	MAR	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	OCT	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
NOV	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31			
DAYS	E-3	E-3	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-3	E-3
DAYS	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-2
DAYS	I-3	1-3	I-3	I-3	J-3	J-3	J-3	J-3	K-3	K-3	K-3	K-3	L-3	L-3	L-3	L-3
NIGHTS	K-3	K-3	K-3	K-3	L-3	L-3	L-3	L-3	I-3	I-3	I-3	I-3	J-3	J-3	J-3	J-3
DAYS	L-9	L-9	L-9	L-9	I-9	1-9	l-9	1-9	K-9	K-9	K-9	K-9	J-9	J-9	J-9	J-9
NIGHTS	I-9	1-9	K-9	K-9	K-9	K-9	J-9	J-9	J-9	J-9	L-9	L-9	L-9	L-9	I-9	I-9
DAYS	1-1	1-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	1-1	1-1
NIGHTS	L-1	L-1	L-1	1-1	i-i	1-1	l-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	L-1
DAYS	J-4	J-4	K-4	K-4	K-4	K-4	L-4	L-4	L-4	L-4	1-4	I-4	I-4	I-4	J-4	J-4
NIGHTS	L-4	L-4	I-4	I-4	1-4	I-4	J-4	J-4	J-4	J-4	K-4	K-4	K-4	K-4	L-4	L-4
121
2014 SHIFT SCHEDULE - 12 HOUR C.W.W.
E-1, E-2, E-3, E-4,1-3, J-3, K-3, L-3,1-9, J-9, K-9, L-9,1-1, J-1, K-1, L-1,1-4, J-4, K-4, L-4
JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	FEB
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	MAR	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	OCT	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
NOV	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31			
DAYS	E-4	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-4	E-4	E-4
DAYS	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2
DAYS	L-3	L-3	L-3	I-3	I-3	I-3	I-3	J-3	J-3	J-3	J-3	K-3	K-3	K-3	K-3	L-3
NIGHTS	J-3	J-3	J-3	K-3	K-3	K-3	K-3	L-3	L-3	L-3	L-3	I-3	I-3	1-3	1-3	J-3
DAYS	J-9	J-9	J-9	L-9	L-9	L-9	L-9	1-9	1-9	I-9	I-9	K-9	K-9	K-9	K-9	J-9
NIGHTS	L-9	I-9	1-9	I-9	I-9	K-9	K-9	K-9	K-9	J-9	J-9	J-9	J-9	L-9	L-9	L-9
DAYS	L-1	l-1	1-1	1-1	1-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	L-1	L-1	L-1
NIGHTS	J-1	J-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	M	I-1	M	M	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	J-1	J-1
DAYS	I-4	J-4	J-4	J-4	J-4	K-4	K-4	K-4	K-4	L-4	L-4	L-4	L-4	I-4	1-4	1-4
NIGHTS	K-4	L-4	L-4	L-4	L-4	I-4	1-4	1-4	I-4	J-4	J-4	J-4	J-4	K-4	K-4	K-4
122
2015 SHIFT SCHEDULE - 12 HOUR C.W.W.
E-1, E-2, E-3, E-4,1-3, J-3, K-3, L-3,1-9, J-9, K-9, L-9,1-1, J-1, K-1, L-1,1-4, J-4, K-4, L-4
JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	FEB
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	MAR	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	OCT	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
NOV	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31			
DAYS	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-3
DAYS	E-1	E-1	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-1	E-1
DAYS	K-3	K-3	L-3	L-3	L-3	L-3	I-3	I-3	1-3	I-3	J-3	J-3	J-3	J-3	K-3	K-3
NIGHTS	1-3	I-3	J-3	J-3	J-3	J-3	K-3	K-3	K-3	K-3	L-3	L-3	L-3	L-3	I-3	I-3
DAYS	K-9	K-9	J-9	J-9	J-9	J-9	L-9	L-9	L-9	L-9	I-9	I-9	I-9	I-9	K-9	K-9
NIGHTS	L-9	L-9	L-9	L-9	I-9	1-9	I-9	I-9	K-9	K-9	K-9	K-9	J-9	J-9	J-9	J-9
DAYS	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	M	M	l-l	l-l	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	J-1
NIGHTS	K-1	J-1	j-i	j-i	J-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	1-1	1-1	1-1	1-1	K-1	K-1	K-1
DAYS	1-4	1-4	I-4	I-4	J-4	J-4	J-4	J-4	K-4	K-4	K-4	K-4	L-4	L-4	L-4	L-4
NIGHTS	K-4	K-4	K-4	K-4	L-4	L-4	L-4	L-4	I-4	I-4	I-4	I-4	J-4	J-4	J-4	J-4
123
2016 SHIFT SCHEDULE - 12 HOUR C.W.W.
E-1, E-2, E-3, E-4,1-3, J-3, K-3, L-3,1-9, J-9, K-9, L-9,1-1, J-1, K-1, L-1,1-4, J-4, K-4, L-4
JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	FEB
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	MAR	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	OCT	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31	NOV	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31		
DAYS	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-3	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-4	E-3
DAYS	E-2	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-2	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-1	E-2	E-2	E-2
DAYS	J-3	K-3	K-3	K-3	K-3	L-3	L-3	L-3	L-3	I-3	I-3	I-3	I-3	J-3	J-3	J-3
NIGHTS	L-3	I-3	I-3	1-3	1-3	J-3	J-3	J-3	J-3	K-3	K-3	K-3	K-3	L-3	L-3	L-3
DAYS	I-9	K-9	K-9	K-9	K-9	J-9	J-9	J-9	J-9	L-9	L-9	L-9	L-9	I-9	I-9	1-9
NIGHTS	J-9	J-9	J-9	L-9	L-9	L-9	L-9	I-9	I-9	I-9	I-9	K-9	K-9	K-9	K-9	J-9
DAYS	J-1	J-1	J-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	I-1	I-1	M	1-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	J-1
NIGHTS	K-1	K-1	K-1	K-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	J-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	L-1	1-1	1-1	1-1	M
DAYS	L-4	L-4	L-4	I-4	I-4	I-4	I-4	J-4	J-4	J-4	J-4	K-4	K-4	K-4	K-4	L-4
NIGHTS	J-4	J-4	J-4	K-4	K-4	K-4	K-4	L-4	L-4	L-4	L-4	1-4	I-4	I-4	1-4	J-4
124
125
2013 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W. - E-7, E-8f E-9, E-A, E-5, E-6, P-6, P-7, P-8, P-9, T-1, T-2, S-A, S-B, M-1, M-2, AA, BB, CC, DD
DAY OF WEEK	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M
	JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	27	28	MAR	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2	3	4	5	6	7
	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	NOV	2	3	4
	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	2
	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	1/	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
	31																											
DAYS	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7
DAYS	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9
DAYS	M-2	M-2	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1				M-2	M-2	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1			
NIGHTS	M-1	M-1	M-1					M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1	M-1	M-1					M-2	M-2	M-2				
DAYS	BB	BB	BB	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	BB	BB	BB	BB
AFTERNOONS	CC	CC	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	8B	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC
NIGHTS	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	BB	88	B8	BB	BB	BB	BB	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD
DAYS	E-5	E-5	E-5						E-5	£-5	E-5			E-5	E-5	E-5	E-5						E-5	E-5	E-5			
DAYS	E-6	E-6	E-6	E-6			E-6	E-6	E-6						E-6	E-6	E-6	E-6			E-6	E-6	E-6					
DAYS ■ 10s	T-1	T-1	T-1					T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1			T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1					T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1			T-1
DAYS - 10s	T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2			T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2					T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2			T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2				
DAYS P-6 *	12	8	8				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8				12
DAYS P-7 *	12	8	8	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	8	12			
DAYS P-8 *	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8
DAYS P-9 *	8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8			
DAYS S-A *	8	12	8	8			8	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			8
DAYS S-B *	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	12	8	8			8	8	12	8				8
DAY OF WEEK	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M
'NUMBERS INDICATE SCHEDULED HOURS
126
2014 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W. - E-7, E-8, E-9, E-A, E-5, E-6, P-6, P-7, P-8, P-9, T-1, T-2, S-A, S-B, M-1, M-2, AA, BB, CC, DD
DAY OF WEEK	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T
	JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	27	28	MAR	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	JUl	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2	3	4	5	6	7
	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	NOV	2	3	4
	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	2
	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
	31																											
DAYS	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7
DAYS	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9
DAYS	M-2	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1				M-2	M-2	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1				M-2
NIGHTS	M-1	M-1					M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1	M-1	M-1					M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1
DAYS	BB	8B	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	BB	BB	BB	86	BB
AFTERNOONS	CC	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC
NIGHTS	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	8B	8B	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	AA
DAYS	E-5	E-5						E-5	E-5	E-5			E-5	E-5	E-5	E-5						E-5	E-5	E-5				E-5
DAYS	E-6	E-6	E-6			E-6	E-6	E-6						E-6	E-6	E-6	E-6			E-6	E-6	E-6						E-6
DAYS - 10s	T-1	T-1					T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1			T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1					T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1			T-1	T-1
DAYS -10$	T-2	T-2	T-2			T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2					T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2			T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2					T-2
DAYS P-6 *	8	8				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8				12	12
DAYS P-7 *	8	8	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	8	12				12
DAYS P-8 *	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12
DAYS P-9 *	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8
DAYS S-A *	12	8	8			8	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8
DAYS S-B *	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	12	8	8			8	8	12	8				8	8
DAY OF WEEK	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T
*NUMBERS INDICATE SCHEDULED HOURS
127
2015 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W. - E-7, E-8, E-9, E-A, E-5, E-6f P-6f P-7, P-8, P-9, T-1, T-2, S-A, S-B, M-1, M-2, AA, BB, CC, DD
DAY OF WEEK	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	s	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W
	JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	27	28	MAR	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	iUN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2	3	4	5	6	7
	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	NOV	2	3	4
	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	2
	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
	31																											
DAYS	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8
DAYS	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-E	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9
DAYS	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1				M-2	M-2	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1				M-2	M-2
NIGHTS	M-1					M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1	M-1	M-1					M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1	M-1
DAYS	BB	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	DD	D(	DD	DD	DD	DD	DC	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	BB	BB	BB	BB	86	BB
AFTERNOONS	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	AA	AA	A/	AA	AA	AA	AA	BE	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC
NIGHTS	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	BB	BB	BB	BB	Bi	BB	BB	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	AA	AA
DAYS	E-5						E-5	E-5	E-5			E-5	E-5	E-5	E-S						E-5	E-5	E-5				E-5	E-5
DAYS	E-6	E-6			E-6	E-6	E-6						E-6	E-6	E-6	E-6			E-6	E-6	E-6						E-6	E-6
DAYS-10s	T-1					T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1			T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1					T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1			T-1	T-1	T-1
DAYS - 10s	T-2	T-2			T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2					T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2			T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2					T-2	T-2
DAYS P-6 *	8				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	E				12	12	8	8				12	12	8
DAYS P-7 *	8	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	E	12				12	8	8	12				12	8
DAYS P-8 *	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	E				8	12	12	8				8	12	12
DAYS P-9 *	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12
DAYS S-A *	8	8			8	8	12	8				8	8	8	E	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	12
DAYS S-B *	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	12	£	8			8	8	12	8				8	8	8
DAY OF WEEK	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W
*NUMBERS INDICATE SCHEDULED HOURS
128
2016 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.W.W. - E-7, E-8, E-9, E-A, E-5f E-6, P-6, P-7, P-8, P-9, T-1, T-2, S-A, S-B, M-1, M-2, AA, BB, CC, DD
DAY OF WEEK	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T
	JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
	26	27	28	29	MAR	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2	3	4	5	6
	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	NOV	2	3
	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC
	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
	30	31																										
DAYS	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8
DAYS	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-9	E-A
DAYS	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1				M-2	M-2	M-2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-1				M-2	M-2	M-2
NIGHTS					M-2	VI-2	M-2					M-1	M-1	M-1					M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1	M-1	M-1
DAYS	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	BB	BB	BB	BB	B8	BB	8B
AFTERNOONS	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	AA	B6	BB	BB	BB	BB	BB	8B	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	DD
NIGHTS	AA	AA	AA	AA	BB	BB	B8	BB	BB	BB	BB	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	CC	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	DD	AA	AA	AA
DAYS						E-5	E-5	E-5			E-5	E-5	E-5	E-5						E-5	E-5	E-5				E-5	E-5	E-5
DAYS	E-6			E-6	E-6	E-6						E-6	E-6	E-6	E-6			E-6	E-6	E-6						E-6	E-6	E-6
DAYS - 10s					T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1			T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1					T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1			T-1	T-1	T-1	T-1
DAYS• 10s	T-2			T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2					T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2			T-2	T-2	T-2	T-2					T-2	T-2	T-2
DAYS P-6 *				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8
DAYS P-7 *	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	8
DAYS P-8 *				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8
DAYS P-9 *	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12
DAYS S-A *	8			8	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	12	8
DAYS S-B *	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	12	8	8			8	8	12	8				8	8	8	8
DAY OF WEEK	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T
*NUMBERS INDICATE SCHEDULED HOURS
2013 SHIFT SCHEDULE S-4, S-5, S-6, S-7, S-8, S-9, SC. SD
8 /12 HOUR COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M
J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	FI	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	M1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	A1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	M1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31	A1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	S1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	01	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	N1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	D1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31													
S4 8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8
S5 8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8
S6 8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12
S7 8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8
58 8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8
S9 12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			
SC 8	8	8				8	12	8	8	8			8	12	8	8	8			8	8	8	8				8	12	8	8	8			8	12	8	8	8			8
SD 8	8	12	8			8	8	8	8				8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	8				8	8	8	12	8			8
T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M
2014 SHIFT SCHEDULE S-4, S-5, S-6, S-7, S-8, S-9, SC, SD
8/12 HOUR COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
w	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T
J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	F1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	M1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	A1	2	3	4	.5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	M1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28.	29	30	J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31	A1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	S1	2	3	4	5	6	.7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	01	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	N1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	D1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14.	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31													
S4 8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8
S5 8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12
S6 8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8
S7 8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8
S8 12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8
S9 8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8
SC 8	8	8			8	12	8	8	8			8	8	8	8				8	12	8	8	8			8	12	8	8	8			8	8	8	8				8	12
SD 8	8				8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	8				8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	12	8			8	8
W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T
2015 SHIFT SCHEDULE S-4, S-5, S-6, S-7, S-8, S-9, SC, SD
8/12 HOUR COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
T	F	S	$	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W
J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	F1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	Ml	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	A1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	M1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31	A1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	S1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	01	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	N1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	D1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31													
CO				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12
S5 8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8
56 8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8
S7 12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8
58 8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8
59 8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8
SC 8	8			8	8	8	8				8	12	8	8	8			8	12	8	8	8			8	8	8	8				8	12	8	8	8			8	12	8
SD 12	8			8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	8				8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	8				8	8	8
T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	5	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W
2016 SHIFT SCHEDULE S-4, S-5, S-6, S-7, S-8, S-9, SC, SD
8 M2 HOUR COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T
J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	F1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	M1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	A1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	M1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	J1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31	A1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	S1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	01	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	N1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	>1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31												
S4 8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8
S5 8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8
S6			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8
S7 8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8
S8 8				12	8	12	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8
S9 8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			12	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8				12	8	12
SC			8	12	8	8	8			8	12	8	8	8			8	8	8	8				8	12	8	8	8			8	12	8	8	8			8	8	8	8
$D 8			8	8	8	8				8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	8				8	8	8	12	8			8	8	8	12
F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T
2013
		JANUARY				
s	M	T	W	T	F	s
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31		
		MARCH				
s	M	T	W	T	F	s
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31						
			MAY			
s	M	T	W	T	F	s
				2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	1 1
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	
		JULY				
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
		2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	1 1	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31			
	SEPTEMBER					
s	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30					
	NOVEMBER					
S	M	T	W	T	F	s
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
		FEBRUARY				
s	M	T	W	T	F	s
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28		
		APRIL				
s	M	T	W	T	F	s
	1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30				
		JUNE				
s	M	T	w	T	F	s
						1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30						
		AUGUST				
s	M	T	W	T	F	S
				1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
		OCTOBER				
s	M	T	W	T	F	S
			2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31		
	DECEMBER					
s	M	T	W	T	F	S
	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	8	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31				
2014
		JANUARY				
s	M	T	W	T	F	s
				2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	
		MARCH				
s	M	T	W	T	F	S
						1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31					
			MAY			
s	M	T	w	T	F	s
				1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
16	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
		JULY				
s	M	T	W	T	F	S
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31		
	SEPTEMBER					
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
		2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30				
	NOVEMBER					
s	M	T	w	T	F	S
2	3	4	5	6	7	1 8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30						
		FEBRUARY				
s	M	T	W	T	F	s
						1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	
		APRIL				
S	M	T	W	T	F	s
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30			
		JUNE				
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30					
		AUGUST				
s	M	T	W	T	F	s
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31						
		OCTOBER				
s	M	T	w	T	F	s
				2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	
	DECEMBER					
S	M	T	W	T	F	s
	1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	8	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31			
2015
		JANUARY				
s	M	T	w	T	F	s
				1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
		MARCH				
S	M	T	w	T	F	s
	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31				
			MAY			
S	M	T	w	T	F	S
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	1 1	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31						
		JULY				
S	M	T	W	T	F	s
				2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	1 1
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	
	SEPTEMBER					
s	M	T	w	T	F	s
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30			
	NOVEMBER					
s	M	T	w	T	F	S
	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30					
		FEBRUARY				
s	M	T	w	T	F	s
	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
		APRIL				
s	M	T	W	T	F	S
				2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30		
		JUNE				
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
		2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30				
		AUGUST				
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
2	3	4	5	6	7	1 8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31					
		OCTOBER				
S	M	T	W	T	F	s
				1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	DECEMBER					
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
			2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	8	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31		
2016
		JANUARY				
s	M	T	W	T	F	S
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31						
		MARCH				
s	M	T	W	T	F	s
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31		
			MAY			
S	M	T	w	T	F	S
	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31				
		JULY				
s	M	T	w	T	F	s
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31						
	SEPTEMBER					
s	M	T	W	T	F	S
				1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	
	NOVEMBER					
s	M	T	W	T	F	S
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30			
		FEBRUARY				
S	M	T	W	T	F	5
	1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29					
		APRIL				
s	M	T	w	T	F	s
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	1 1	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
		JUNE				
s	M	T	W	T	F	s
				2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30		
		AUGUST				
s	M	T	w	T	F	s
		2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31			
		OCTOBER				
s	M	T	W	T	F	S
						1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31					
	DECEMBER					
S	M	T	w	T	F	S
				1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
Suncor)
UniFOR
theUnion | lesyndicat