COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT between
HIGHVALE MINE and
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
LOCAL 1595
Effective: April 1, 2004 to March 31, 2009
COQ.OZ(pi)
TABLE OF CONTENTS	Page
PREAMBLE ................................1
ARTICLE 1 - SCOPE........................2
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION AND MANAGEMENT
RIGHTS........................2
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY ..............3
ARTICLE 4 - CHECKOFF.....................3
ARTICLE 5 - SAFETY AND HEALTH ...........4
ARTICLE 6 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE............10
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ........12
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY...................16
ARTICLE 9 - REDUCTION IN STAFF..........18
ARTICLE 10 - INCREASE IN STAFF..........19
ARTICLE 11 - PROMOTIONS AND VACANCIES...20
ARTICLE 12 - DISCIPLINE.................27
ARTICLE 13 - GENERAL HOLIDAYS ..........29
ARTICLE 14 - ANNUAL VACATIONS ..........30
ARTICLE 15 - HOURS OF WORK..............34
ARTICLE 16 - OVERTIME...................36
ARTICLE 17 - PAYMENT OF WAGES ..........39
ARTICLE 18 - DIFFERENTIALS..............39
ARTICLE 19 - GROUP INSURANCE ...........40
ARTICLE 20 - SICK LEAVE ACCUMULATIVE....44
ARTICLE 21 - GENERAL PROVISIONS.........46
ARTICLE 22 - OCCUPATIONAL CLASSIFICATIONS
AND RATES OF PAY.............52
ARTICLE 23 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS.......54
ARTICLE 24 - PENSION PLAN...............55
iii
TABLE OF CONTENTS (con’t)	Page
ARTICLE 25 - EMPLOYEE & FAMILY
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM .........56
ARTICLE 26 - WORKING RESTRICTIONS......56
ARTICLE 27 - CONTRACTING OUT...........57
ARTICLE 28 - COOLING SYSTEMS...........58
ARTICLE 29 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT.....59
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
#2004-01 COMPRESSED WORK WEEK
12 HOUR SHIFT.............
#2004-02 COMPRESSED WORK WEEK
10 HOUR SHIFT.............
#2004-03 LEAD HAND................
#2004-04 SICK PAY PAY-OUT.........
#2004-05 HOT CHANGE ..............
#2004-06 RELIEF FOREMAN...........
#2004-07 CONTRACTING OUT .........
#2004-08 RETIREE GROUP BENEFITS...
#2004-09 COVERALLS................
#2004-10 UNION LEAVE REIMBURSEMENT
60
67
70
71
72
73 76 78 80 81
IV
INDEX
Absence...........................
Accidental Death & Dismemberment.
Agreement, duration...............
Apprenticeship....................
Arbitration.......................
Bereavement Pay...................
Boots & Clothing Allowance .......
Breaks, lunch and coffee..........
Bulletin Boards...................
Call out..........................
Committee, grievance..............
Committee, union - management.....
Committee, safety - department....
Committee, safety - quarterly.....
Contracting out...................
Dental Plan.......................
Discipline........................
Discrimination....................
Dues..............................
Extended Health Care..............
Fatality..........................
Glasses...........................
Grievances........................
Group Life Insurance .............
Hours of Work.....................
Job Opportunity, trial period.....
Job Opportunity, training period..
Job Posting ......................
Jury Duty.........................
Lay Offs..........................
Leave of Absence .................
Leave of Absence, bereavement.....
Leave of Absence, maternity/parental
Letters of Understanding..........
Long Term Disability .............
Lunch Breaks .....................
Medicals..........................
Management Rights.................
Overtime..........................
Overtime Agreement................
Payment, meeting attendance.......
Pension Plan......................
Page
...10
...40
...59
...47
...13
....1
...26, 64, 69
...........50
...........36
..........15
...........50
............5
............9
....4, 57, 76
...........40
...........27
...........49
............3
...........42
...........6
...........43
..........12
...........40
...........34
.......22, 23
.......22, 23
..........20
...........47
..........18
..........10
..........11
..........11
.......60-81
..........41
...36, 64, 69
.7 & 8, 41,45
...........2
...........36
...........37
....6, 15, 57
..........55
V
INDEX	Page
Probation.............................................16
Promotion ............................................20
Recall...........................................  IV,	19
Recognition and Rights.................................2
Safety.................................................4
Seniority ............................................16
Severance, Notice ....................................18
Shift Change...................................34,	61,	67
Shift Differential.................................39,	60
Short Term Disability ................................42
Sick Benefit...................................44,	45,	71
Statutory Holidays....................................29
Stewards .......................................12,28,47
Students..............................................51
Subcontractors..................................4.	57,	76
Supervisors, working..................................56
Temporary Employees...................................19
Tool Replacement......................................48
Training............................................5,	22
Union Activity........................................10
Union Checkoff.........................................3
Union Security.........................................3
Vacation, entitlement and pay.................31,63,	67
Vacation, scheduling..........................32,	64,	68
Vision Care...........................................43
Wages ........................................39,	52,	81
Work, schedules ..............................35,	60,	67
vi
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into as of the 25® day of March, 2004.
between
LUSCAR LTD., HIGH VALE MINE IN THE PROVINCE OF ALBERTA (hereinafter referred to as the Company)
OF THE FIRST PART and
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1595
(hereinafter referred to as the Union)
OF THE SECOND PART PREAMBLE
The purpose of this Agreement shall be to establish, through negotiations, terms and conditions of employment relating to rates of pay, hours of work and other working conditions of employees, and to provide a method for negotiating settlement of disputes, complaints and grievances of employees, and to establish a harmonious relationship between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 1 - SCOPE
1.01
This Agreement shall apply to all employees of Luscar Ltd., at the Highvale Mine, excluding Engineers, Surveyors, Engineering Technicians, Office & Clerical Staff, Assistant Purchasing Agents, Purchasing Agents, Foremen, and those above the rank of Foreman.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION AND MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for the employees covered by this Agreement and hereby consents and agrees to negotiate with the Union, or its designated bargaining representatives, in all matters relating io rates of pay, hours of work, working conditions, disputes, complaints, and grievances of employees. The Company also agrees that the Union may have the assistance of a representative of the United Steelworkers of America in any or all negotiations or discussions between the parties to this Agreement.
2.02
The right to hire, retire, promote, demote, discharge or discipline for just cause, and to maintain discipline and efficiency of employees is the exclusive function of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement. All matters concerning the operation of the Company's business not specifically dealt with herein shall be reserved to the Company and be its exclusive responsibility.
Without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the Union further recognizes the jurisdiction of the Company over all
2
operations, buildings, machinery, tools, and employees and the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
3.01
Every employee who is now or hereafter becomes a member of the Union shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment, and every new employee whose employment commences hereafter shall, within three days after the commencement of his employment, apply for and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of his employment.
The services of an employee shall be immediately terminated upon the request of the Union, should such employee fail to apply for the Union membership as required above, and/or should he fail to maintain his membership in the Union in any manner and/or should he withdraw from the Union.
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK OFF
4.01
a.	The Company agrees that upon written request by the Union, accompanied by signed authorization cards, all Union initiation fees, monthly dues, assessments or levies, shall be deducted for, and on behalf of all employees who are members of the Union, and such monies shall be made payable, for deposit only, in the Union Bank Account, and forwarded to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union not later than the 20^ day of each month accompanied by a list of names of all employees for, and on behalf of whom such deductions have been made. Monthly statements showing the names of all additions and deletions of staff shall be 3
forwarded to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union.
In the event of a contractor or subcontractor being employed by the Company at the mine site or in the event of employees employed by contractors or subcontractors being directly or indirectly paid by, or under the control and direction of the Company on the mine site in excess of 24 man hours (excluding time spent on warranty work) in any calendar month, the Company will pay to the Union an amount equivalent to one month's union dues for each individual on the mine site in excess of 24 hours. A statement will be included with the remittance.
b.	The Company will supply the Union with a statement on each contractor used indicating the Contractor's name, date started, length of time spent on job, number of people involved and the reason for using the Contractor.
ARTICLE 5 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
5.01
The Company and the Union agree that it is in the interest of all concerned to maintain a safety arid health program at the Company's operations in order to prevent industrial injury and illness.
To this end, it is expected that all persons on the property shall cooperate to promote safe work conditions, practices and enforcement of reasonable rules of conduct and safety on the property.
To assist in meeting our mutual objectives in matters related to health and safety, a Joint Safety and Health Committee will be established and maintained as outlined in Clause 5.03 following.
4
5.02
The Company shall make provisions for the safety and health of the employees during working hours, and the Union, may from time to time, bring to the attention of the Company any recommended suggestions in this regard. Such recommendations shall be subject to negotiation between the Company and the Union.
5.03
a. The Joint Worksite Safety and Health Committee will be comprised of not more than three members from each party, one of whom must be the Union's Occupational Health and Safety Chairman and each member will have an alternate to act in his absence. The chairmanship of monthly meetings and tours will alternate between the Company and the Union.
This committee will participate in the monthly safety tours/inspections and the meeting that follows the conclusion of such tours. Minutes of this meeting will be recorded and forwarded to the Union Occupational Health and Safety Chairman, and will be posted on the appropriate bulletin board(s) within 14 days of the conclusion of the meeting. In addition, the Committee will review, on an on-going basis, the safety programs and procedures (including those related to accident and incident investigation) and, where applicable, propose improvements to the Company and the Union.
The Committee will develop Safety Training in ajoint format.
The Company will make available information necessary to enable the joint work site Health and Safety Committee to fulfill its function as it relates to Health and Safety. With the agreement of the Employer, copies may be provided to the Union.
5
The Union recognizes and commits that where the material provided is designated as sensitive to the Employer, it will be held in the strictest of confidence.
b.	The committee members will not suffer any loss of regular pay as a result of attending Safety and Health meetings.
c.	Each crew shall hold regular monthly safety meetings and, where operations permit, these meetings will be held during the day shift. Minutes from these meetings will be recorded, with a copy retained by the Supervisor and Crew Safety Representative. These meetings will include the reading of the previous meeting's minutes and updates to outstanding safety items from previous meetings. New suggestions or concerns that have not previously been reviewed with either the Crew Safety Representative or the Foreman will be raised for awareness, or may be investigated further prior to discussion.
d.	In the event of a serious accident or incident, a Company Representative along with a Crew Safety Representative will investigate. If a Safety Representative is not available, a Highvale Mine employee who is a Union member of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety committee may be substituted and, failing their availability, a member of the Highvale Union executive may be used. In the event of a fatality the Union Safety Chairman or Local Union President, or a designate will participate with the Company Representative during the investigation. The investigating Union member shall not suffer any loss of regular pay as a result of such an investigation.
5.04
The Company with the assistance of the Joint Worksite
Committee will develop a procedure as per the Working Alone
6
Safely Guide for employees and employers dated September
2000.
5.05
a.	An employee injured in an industrial accident shall he paid for the time lost on the day he was injured; at his regular daily earnings.
b.	Following the submission of documents to establish a WCB claim, should the Company request a meeting with an employee to discuss aspects of the claim other than improper documentation, the employee will be entitled to a Union representative from the Highvale Mine who is either a WCB Committee member or a member of the Local Unit Executive.
5.06
The Company shall pay for medical fees incurred for the
purpose of receiving pre-employment medical examinations for
all prospective new employees.
5.07
a.	Upon request, Employees shall be provided free of charge approved high voltage gloves only for the purpose of handling live trailing power cables.
b.	No employee sh&ll be allowed to handle live high voltage power cable without high voltage gloves or a hot stick.
5.08
a. The Company agrees to provide free of charge to employees, articles of clothing which are found, through negotiations, to cause undue expense to the employees and/or which may be necessary for the safety and health of employees. This
7
provision does not mean clothing usually required for the job. The results of such negotiations shall be put in writing.
The Company shall supply the following, free of charge:
Welder's Masks, Goggles & Gloves, Leather Aprons and Leather Arms. Rubber Boots and Rainsuits.
The Company shall supply gloves at cost to all employees. Gloves will be supplied for specific working conditions at no cost to the employee.
b. The Company shall pay to each employee the sum of $ 150.00 each year towards the purchase of work clothing or C.S.A. approved safety boots. The sum will be paid on the first pay date in December of each year to employees on the Company's payroll except to those that have been continuously absent during the six (6) months preceding December 1st.
Effective April 1, 2006, the sum will increase to $200.00 per year.
5.09
Employees are required to take good care of any articles loaned to them by the Company, and such articles must be returned to the Company on termination of employment. Employees must acknowledge, in writing, receipt of welding masks, goggles, gloves, leather aprons and arms; rubber boots; and good quality rainsuits. Rainsuits and rubber boots will be replaced on an exchange basis.
5.10
Once every two years, the Company shall make available to all employees at no cost to any employee, a chest x-ray and
8
recognized hearing tests. A copy of the report shall be submitted to the employee. Employees will be paid at their regular rate of pay to a maximum of four hours in the event the tests are carried out on their non-scheduled shift(s).
5.11
The lock-out procedure is an integral component of the safety program on the property, as it relates to the protection of all individuals and equipment on-site.
5.12
The Company and the Union agree to comply with the provisions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act in force on January 1, 1995, as they relate to the right to refuse unsafe work.
5.13
Unless the Mine Inspector chooses otherwise the JWSC CoChairman will accompany him on all work site tours and/or inspections.
5.14
The parties will jointly develop a Respectful Worksite Statement, within 90 days from the date of ratification.
5.15
The Company agrees to meet quarterly with the Highvale Unit President, Union Safety Committee Chairman and one other Union representative to review the effectiveness of the Joint Safety Committee, and to review safety concerns or suggestions that, because of their nature, are beyond the scope of authority of participants of the Joint Safety Committee. The General
9
Manager, a Company representative to the Joint Safety Committee, and the Manager, Human Resources and Loss Prevention, will attend these meetings. Minutes of meetings will be jointly reviewed and signed prior to being posted. The minutes will be posted on the designated bulletin boards within five (5) business days.
ARTICLE 6 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
6.01
The Company agrees that leave of absence without pay but with maintenance and accumulation of seniority shall be granted to any designated employee for the conducting of Union business at large.
a.	For periods not in excess of two weeks at any one time, 48 hours notice being required, provided however, time spent by the negotiating committee of the Union may, where necessary, exceed such two weeks.
b.	For an indefinite period, two weeks written notice being required.
6.02
a. The Company agrees that a leave of absence without pay to a maximum of one year shall be granted to employees for good and sufficient reason. Such request for a leave of absence will be in writing and the response will also be in writing and no such leave will affect any employee's seniority rights when used for the purpose granted. During a leave of absence, including a military leave, of 30 calendar days or less all benefits will he maintained. Seniority will be maintained and accumulated on leaves of 30 calendar days or less, and maintained for that portion of a leave that is in excess of 30 calendar days. If an employee works elsewhere while on
10
leave of absence, he will lose all seniority unless he has written permission from the Company to do so. Such leave shall be granted without discrimination and in cases of leaves for periods in excess of three months, approval must be obtained from the Company and the Union.
b. In the event that an employee requests and is eligible for Maternity and/or Parental leave under the appropriate legislation in effect, the period of such leave shall be considered as Company service for seniority, pension and vacation entitlement (excluding vacation pay) purposes. An employee on approved Maternity and/or Parental leave may continue benefit coverage beyond the time limits as set out in 6.02 a. by paying the full amount of the medical, extended health, dental, vision care and basic group insurances (excluding Short Term and Long Term disability coverage) premiums. The Company agrees to remit the same with its regular group billing returns. In order for an employee to be eligible for the provisions of the benefit plans, an employee must apply and remit payment to the Company prior to the billing date. Upon the employee's return to work from the approved leave, the Company will reimburse the employee for the full cost of the premiums paid by the employee while on leave.
6.03
Special leave of absence with pay and with maintenance of seniority rights, shall be granted in cases of death in the employee's immediate family. Immediate family shall mean an employee's mother, father, brothers, sisters, spouse, children, mother-in-law and father-in-law. Such leave shall not exceed three days.
Spouse shall include a common-law spouse who has cohabitated in a spousal relationship for a minimum of two years. Children
11
shall include the natural or adopted children of a qualified common-law spouse.
In the event of the death of brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, or grandchildren, one day of leave shall he granted with pay and maintenance of seniority to attend the funeral.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01
All grievances, except as provided for elsewhere in this agreement, and those relating to an employee who has acquired seniority and has been discharged, shall be dealt with by following Steps 1, 2, and 3 of this procedure. The grievance of a discharged employee as noted above shall he taken lip at Step 3 within fourteen (14) days after the day the employee has been terminated from the Company.
In the event of any grievance arising during the currency of this Agreement, the employee or employees concerned shall within fourteen (14) days after the employee knew or ought to have known of the matter giving rise to the grievance, refer the matter in writing signed by the employee or employees, as the case may he, to his crew Shop Steward (failing his availability, another shop steward or executive member may be substituted) who, if the Shop Steward considers the grievance to he a legitimate one, shall promptly take the matter up with the designated Foreman of the employee or employees. The designated Foreman and another Company representative shall discuss the grievance with the Shop Steward and another Union representative (with the employee or employees concerned encouraged to attend), and shall render a decision within seven (7) days of being notified of
12
the grievance.
In the event that the designated Foreman does not give a decision satisfactory to the Union, or does not render a decision within the period prescribed above, the Grievance Committee may, within seven (7) days, refer the written grievance to the Department Head. The Department Head and other Company representatives shall discuss the grievance with the Grievance Committee and the Shop Steward who signed the grievance (with the employee or employees concerned encouraged to attend), and shall render a decision within seven (7) days of being notified of the grievance, provided however, that if circumstances warrant, this time prescribed may be extended by mutual agreement.
Step 3
In the event that the Department Head does not give a decision satisfactory to the Union or does not render a decision within the time prescribed above, the Grievance Committee may within seven (7) days refer the written grievance to the General Manager of the Company. The General Manager, accompanied by other Company representatives, shall meet with the Grievance Committee and the Shop Steward who signed the grievance (with the employee or employees concerned encouraged to attend) and render his decision within seven (7) days of referral of the grievance, provided however, the time may be extended by mutual consent.
ARBITRATION
Step 4
In the event that any grievance has not been settled through the procedure outlined above, either party may, within fourteen (14)
13
days after the General Manager's decision in Step 3, submit the grievance to an Arbitrator. The selection of an arbitrator shall he by alphabetical order from the following panel, if available to act. The selection of an arbitrator for the next arbitration shall commence with the next name.
1.	Timothy Christian
2.	Andrew Simms
3.	Colin Taylor
The arbitrator shall convene a hearing and hear the evidence of both parties and render a written decision within thirty (30) days after the completion of taking evidence deciding the matter at issue within the existing provisions of the Agreement. In no event shall the arbitrator have the power to add to, subtract from, alter or amend this Agreement in any respect.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties.
The fees and expenses of the Arbitrator shall be shared equally between the parties. Each party shall pay its own costs and expenses including the fees and expenses of its own witnesses and of its own representative.
7.02
For the purpose of Clause 1 hereof, the person duly authorized to act for and on behalf of the officials mentioned herein, during their absence, shall similarly be authorized to act in respect to the procedure outlined herein.
7.03
The Union shall promptly notify the Company of the personnel of its Grievance Committee and the Shop Stewards and of any change in personnel, and the Company shall notify the Union of
14
the names of the designated supervisory personnel with whom grievances shall be discussed as set forth in Clause 1 of this Article.
7.04
In the discussions of grievances with representatives of the Company, the Grievance Committee may be accompanied by a representative of the United Steelworkers of America.
7.05
As far as practicable, all grievances shall be dealt with during working hours, and no employee or members of the Grievance Committee or Shop Steward will suffer loss of pay by reason of time spent in discussing grievances with representatives of the Company.
In the event the Company requests the Shop Steward and/or Grievance Committee to meet outside regular working hours to discuss a grievance, he will be paid at his straight time regular rate for the Lime spent at the meeting. Such meetings shall only be in conjunction with regular working hours.
7.06
The Grievance Committee shall consist of four employees only. The Union Local President may also attend grievance meetings.
7.07
Grievances alleging violations which directly involve more than one employee and which are sufficiently common in nature that they may be conveniently dealt with together, by mutual agreement, may be submitted as one grievance at either Step 1 or 2. Policy grievances will be filed at Step 2 of the grievance procedure. The time frames for submission and progression, and
15
the representation at the meetings, will be the same as in the steps set out preceding, except that normally not more than two of the employees will attend.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
8.01
The seniority and service of an employee shall be plantwide and shall be based upon continuous service with the Company and shall date from the time he last entered the service of the Company, subject to the following:
a.	An employee shall acquire seniority when he has completed his probationary period of 360 regularly scheduled hours worked, and upon completion of this period, his seniority shall be retroactive to the date of his hiring.
b.	Continuous service of an employee shall be broken and seniority shall terminate by reason of any of the following:
(i)	Dismissal forjust and reasonable cause;
(ii)	Voluntary resignation;
(iii)	Failure to report Ter work within 10 working days after being notified to report following a layoff, unless the employee can give a reason satisfactory to the Company for his failure to report within the time prescribed;
(iv)	Withdrawal of any amount to which that employee is entitled tinder the Company Pension Plans:
(v)	A continuous layoff which is equal to one-half of the employee's seniority at the time of layoff, but in no event shall this period exceed two years, i.e. one year of service six months.
NOTE: Should an employee break service or lose seniority for any of the foregoing reasons and be subsequently
16
rehired, such employee shall commence employment as a new employee and shall not have any service or seniority from any previous employment with the Company.
c.	Subject to 8(b)(v) an employee's seniority and service shall accumulate during a period of layoff due to lack of work.
8.02
Employees shall not be laid off, recalled, promoted or demoted until the Union has been notified of the names of the persons affected and the reasons for such action and a consultation with the Union has taken place in respect to the matter.
In cases of terminations, the Union will be notified, as soon as possible, but not beyond the next working day, excluding Saturday, Sunday, and holidays.
8.03
The Company agrees to prepare and post not later than January 31st and July 31st of each year, or at such other time as may be mutually agreed upon, in places easily accessible to all employees, a list of the names of all employees, showing their job classifications, rates of pay and combined seniority standing, the latter being open to protest by employees for 30 days from the date of such submission. Upon proof of error being established by a representative of the Union, correction shall immediately be made. The Company will supply the Union with a copy of seniority lists and corrections thereto, within two working days excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
17
ARTICLE 9 - REDUCTION IN STAFF
9.01
When reducing staff, senior employees, ability being sufficient to perform the duties required for the position to be filled, shall be retained. A lay-off of staff duc to emergency conditions arising in the plant for periods not in excess of two days may be made without reference to seniority. However, every effort shall be made to provide work for employees who would otherwise be laid off.
9.02
The Company shall give employees written notice of permanent layoff of at least:
One week after three months;
Two weeks after two years;
Four weeks after four years;
Five weeks after six years;
Six weeks after eight years; or Eight weeks after ten years.
Permanent layoff shall mean a planned layoff of 60 or more calendar days duration.
9.03
a.	In the event of reduction of work in a classification, the employee affected shall be given up to 48 consecutive hours to displace any other employee in any pay classification provided the employee has more seniority than the employee displaced. The employee so displaced shall displace any other employee in any pay classification provided such employee has more seniority than the employee displaced until the reduction has been completed. The employee displacing must
18
have the ability to perform the work of the classification which such employee is going into and the 240 hour trial period shall not apply when the anticipated time period for layoff is less than six months. Should the employee be unsuccessful in completing the trial period or fail to exercise his right to displace another employee within 48 consecutive hours of receiving written notification of his right to displace, he will be assigned to the classification of labourer, but will not be restricted in bidding out of the labourer position by Article 11.06.
b.	Any bidding procedure that is being contemplated or underway in accordance with Article 11 will be reviewed with the Union and when deemed necessary upon mutual agreement, will be delayed or suspended until the reduction is completed.
ARTICLE 10 - INCREASE IN STAFF
10.01
When increasing staff, consideration will be given wherever possible and practical, to local area people being employed. Employees laid off because of reduction in staff shall be returned to service first, ability being sufficient to perform the duties required for the position to be filled, in order of seniority. Notification of rehiring shall be by registered mail addressed to the last address which the employee shall have recorded with the Company, and a copy of such notice shall be given to the "Recording Secretary" of the Union. Until such time as employees recalled to work actually report back to work, the Company shall be entitled to hire employees on a temporary basis.
10.02
Temporary employees hired to replace an employee on a 19
callback shall not be required to join the Union until after the 10
working days referred to in Article 8.01 (b)(iii).
ARTICLE 11 ■ PROMOTIONS AND VACANCIES
11.01
a.	Notice of new positions, including the day shift labourer position (except students), or vacancies of a promotional nature coming within the scope of this Agreement, shall be issued from the office of the Manager and shall be posted for eight days in places accessible to all employees. A copy of said postings shall be supplied to the Union. Each vacancy will be posted not later than seven days from the date that the Company became aware of the vacancy. Each posting will set forth the title of the job, the rate of pay, the crew designation and shift schedule of the initial vacancy, the closing date of the posting and, for vacancies in Reclamation and Pit Operations, the equipment number of the initial vacancy, and for vacancies in the Coal Handling Plant, the initial vacant position.
b.	Postings for new positions shall include a description of the position. For the purposes of job posting, a new position is one which has not existed prior to the time of posting and does not include replacement equipment.
c.	Notices of vacancies will be posted for a minimum of eight (8) calendar days, except for circumstances beyond the Company's control.
d.	In the event that a posted job has been cancelled for reasons other than an employee withdrawing his bid, the Company will advise the Union, in writing, of the reasons for the cancellation.
20
11.02
a.	Employees in any classification shall be entitled to submit a bid for such positions or vacancies by means of triplicate written applications, with one copy each for the Company, the Union and the applicant. No application from employees received later than the posted closing date will be considered.
b.	Employees must complete all applicable sections of the Bid Sheet. The Company and the Union shall jointly review the Bid Sheets at the time of bid closure. When an employee is bidding more than one job, one Bid Sheet is to be used and the desired jobs will be listed in order of preference. Should the Bid Sheet not include sufficient information to clearly identify an employee's preference or if essential information is missing, the bid will be excluded.
11.03
a.	New positions or vacancies shall be filled, ability being sufficient to perform the duties required for the position to be
filled, on a basis of seniority.
b.	The successful applicant will be confirmed in the position unless he withdraws his application within three days of being posted as the successful applicant. Should an applicant withdraw his bid, the name of the next successful applicant will be posted for three days and confirmed in the position unless he withdraws his bid within three days of the posting of his name. This selection process will continue until an applicant is confirmed in the position. The successful applicant will normally be placed in the position of the promotion or vacancy within 30 days of his confirmation in the position. In the event that the Company is unable to fill the vacancy from amongst the employees, posting of the name of the successful applicant may be delayed for a period of 75
21
days. The Union shall receive a copy of all such postings.
11.04
a.	Employees accepting promotions to a new position or vacancy may be required to take a trial period of 240 hours working on the job to which they have been promoted. In cases of there being any question as to his ability, and during this period, he shall be given both practical training from an individual with previous relevant experience and the necessary instruction for the position concerned. If such employee feels he does not qualify within such time he may revert to his former position without loss of seniority but will be subject to the penalties outlined in Articles 11.05 and 11.06(a). If, before the expiry of such 240 hours, it appears that such employee is incapable of qualifying for such position the Company may, after consultation with the Union, require him to revert to his former position or upon mutual agreement a reasonable and agreed upon time extension may be granted for the purpose of training, and where the employee has not received 48 work hours of practical training from a qualified individual, there will be no penalty applied. Where the employee has received the minimum training and the Company feels he does not qualify within such time, he may revert to his former position without loss of seniority and shall be subject to a penalty of two years as outlined in Article 11.05, but the penalty outlined in Article 11.06(a) will not apply. Employees on a trial period, to a maximum of 240 hours, shall be paid at the rate received prior to accepting promotion to a new position or vacancy. In the event of a dispute between the Company and the Union regarding an employee's ability to operate equipment, a suitable method, practical test, instrument or device shall be installed on that particular piece of equipment to determine and record the operation, and a tolerance of 10% against the most efficient
22
operator of comparable equipment shall be allowed.
b.	Employees who have previously worked 240 hours within a six month period, or previously held the bid position, at a job classification other than their normal bid classification, shall not be required to take a 240 hour trial period in the samejob classification. It is the employee's responsibility to verify the periods of time(s) previously worked in the classification in question.
c.	An employee removed from a temporary bid prior to completing the 240 hour trial period may, at his request, have hours worked in the position on the temporary bid deducted from a future trial period, provided the return to the position occurs within six weeks of his removal.
d.	Successful bidders to the dragline operators and dragline oilers position may be required to complete a progressive training program in order to advance to their bid unit. If the progressive training program is to exceed 240 hours the Company will notify and review the employee's progress with both the employee and Union. For the purpose of evaluation only, the 240 hour trial period will begin once the employee has advanced to his bid unit.
11.05
Employees who do not successfully complete the trial period
will revert to their former position. Such employees will not be
eligible to rebid for that position for a period of two years, unless
otherwise mutually agreed by the Company and the Union.
11.06
a. Unless otherwise agreed between the Company and the Union, employees may not bid for a period of four months after being posted as the successful applicant.
23
b.	Employees who successfully hold a temporary bid position will not be restricted from bidding on a permanent bid position within the same classification.
c.	Certified Tradesmen, who have been apprenticed toward their chosen trade, sponsored by the Company, may not bid out of their trade for a minimum of the same additional amount of time that the Tradesman has spent, sponsored by the Company, in the Trades Apprenticeship Program.
d.	Notwithstanding either Article 11.05 or 11.06(a) above, when an employee has been posted as the successful applicant and has not been transferred to his new position within the time periods outlined in Article 11.03(b), he may withdraw from the position without penalty provided the withdrawal is submitted in writing to the Company on the employee's first scheduled shift following the expiration of the transfer date. Employees who have a planned absence covering this period must submit their withdrawal on their last shift worked prior to the commencement of the planned absence, and employees with an unplanned absence must submit their withdrawal on the earlier of their first shift worked or five days past the expiration of the transfer period. In the latter situation, the withdrawal may be done verbally. In either event, the Company may initiate a legitimate transfer either prior to the expiration of the transfer period or the receipt of a withdrawal.
11.07
a. An employee required temporarily to fill another position paying a higher rate of pay shall receive the rate for such position for the time worked in the higher paying position, but if required temporarily to fill a position paying a lower rate, shall continue to receive the rate payable for his regular position.
24
b. In the event an employee has to he transferred from his bid position, the Company will consult with the employee prior to such transfer taking place.
11.08
The Company agrees to notify the Union and post in places accessible to all employees all positions outside the jurisdiction of this Agreement as such positions are created or become vacant and employees shall he given full opportunity to make the proper application for such positions.
11.09
The provisions of this Article 11 will apply to the filling of new classifications. Any new permanent classifications coming within the scope of this Agreement will be the subject of negotiations between the Company and the Union Executive. Failure of the parties to agree on any aspect of new or changed classifications will result in the matter being referred to the Grievance Procedure at Step 3.
11.10
In the circumstances where an employee is absent on sick leave or Worker's Compensation, the Company agrees to hold open the employee's hid position for a period of 18 months, and in the interim may hid that position on a temporary basis. Other vacancies arising out of the initial vacancy may also he hid on a temporary basis. In such situations the 240 hour trial period shall apply with the exceptions of Shovel Operator, Dragline Operator, Coal Handling Plant Operator, Front-End Loader Operator and Drill Operator. The absent employee shall continue to accumulate seniority for a 36-month period. Employees filling temporary positions shall he confirmed in the positions after 18 months. In the event the absent employee
25
returns within 18 months fit for full duties, affected employees holding the temporary bids shall be returned to their former positions. After 18 months the returning employee will;
i.	Return to any vacancy in the employee’s previous bid classification or, if no such vacancy exists,
ii.	Claim any vacancy that exists in a bid classification that he has previously held or is qualified to perform and the 240 hour trial period shall apply.
11.11
Should there be no applicants for a posted position, employees who have not completed the probationary period specified in Article 8 will be asked, in order of their hire date, if they would accept the posted position, provided the posted position is a higher paying position. Employees who have had either documented performance problems, or a sub-standard evaluation, will be excluded from the process. If the 240-hour trial period is applicable, the employee’s probationary period will be the later of 360 hours from date of hire or the end of the trial period.
11.12
In addition to the requirements of Article 11.04, employees bidding an operator’s position on walking type draglines must have four months experience as an oiler or an operator on a walking or crawler type shovel or dragline.
The requirements would be the same for employees bidding on the position of Coal Handling Plant Operator; they too would require four months oiling or operating within the Coal Handling Plant area.
During this period, oilers of both classifications, will be given the opportunity to become familiar with all phases of the
26
specific classification's operation and general maintenance, including spending some time actually operating as an operator trainee.
11.13
Employees who are successful on bidding on a dragline oiler vacancy, who either claim or can verify previous experience as an operator or oiler on a dragline, may be given the opportunity to demonstrate their skills. Employees who are unable to demonstrate a satisfactory skill level will progress in the oiler classification as per the normal training procedure.
ARTICLE 12 - DISCIPLINE
12.01
The Company agrees to forward copies of all written warnings, notices of demotion, suspension or termination to the Union for their records. The Company agrees that all discipline will he removed from an employee's employment record upon completion of an 18-month period in which the employee was discipline free, and will not be used in any disciplinary actions thereafter.
12.02
a.	A steward will be present when an employee is to be formally disciplined.
b.	The Highvale Unit President (or his designate from the Highvale Unit), will be present when the disciplinary action for an employee is to he discharged.
c.	When the Company holds formal investigative meetings with an employee in which discipline is being contemplated for that employee, it will be conducted in the presence of a
27
steward.
d.	Should a steward be unavailable, a member of the Highvale Unit Executive inay attend.
e.	The unavailability of appropriate union representation will, where necessary, result in the granting of an extension to the time period for imposition of discipline as stated in 12.03.
f.	Notwithstanding the requirement for union representation, should the Company he unable to contact an employee, and/or should an employee be unable or unwilling to attend a meeting, the Company inay proceed with disciplinary action. Any such disciplinary action will be communicated to the Union.
12.03
a.	Employees shall be disciplined within eight of the employee’s working shifts froin the later of the date of the incident or the date froin which the Company was aware of the incident. This time may be extended by agreement between the Company and the Union.
b.	Employees who are involved in occurrences in which Company property is damaged arid who fail to report each such occurrence to their supervisor within eight hours of such occurrence are subject to discipline.
12.04
Upon request, an employee may review his personnel file in
accordance with the following criteria:
• the review must occur outside of the employee’s working hours at a time mutually agreed to between the employee and the Company;
28
•	the review must occur in the presence of a representative of the Company: and
•	a union representative may accompany the employee provided the review occurs outside the representative's working hours.
ARTICLE 13 - GENERAL HOLIDAYS
13.01
The following days shall he observed as holidays without deduction of pay therefore:
New Year's Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Good Friday Victoria Day Thanksgiving Day
Remembrance Day 2nd Monday in Feb. Canada Day Labour Day 1st Monday in Aug.
and any other day when nationally proclaimed and approved by the Provincial Government. In the event that a day in February is nationally proclaimed and approved by the Provincial Government as a holiday, then that day shall automatically replace the second Monday in February agreed to as a holiday.
13.02
When any of the above mentioned holidays fall during the period of an employee's regularly assigned day or days of rest, the following regular working day shall he observed as the day of rest.
13.03
All time worked on a holiday as specified in Clause 1 of this
29
Article, shall be paid at two times the employee's regular rate of pay in addition to pay for the full holiday at the employee's regular rate of pay. If overtime is worked, the overtime provisions of Article 16 shall be invoked.
13.04
Employees will not be entitled to General Holiday pay for any General Holidays which occur in their first 30 days of employment.
13.05
The Company will advise the Union prior to the end of February of each year of the dates scheduled for staff socials. The Union shall have the right to alter the observance of a General Holiday to one of the above mentioned dates by providing written notice to the Company by March 31s* of each year as to the date selected and the General Holiday to be altered.
ARTICLE 14 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
14.01
All employees covered by this Agreement shall be entitled to vacation with pay based upon years of continuous service as computed on the employee's anniversary date of employment.
Such entitlement shall be as follows:
One year	-
Three years	-
Nine years	-
Nineteen years	-
Twenty five years	-
Twenty six years	-
Twenty seven years	-
10 working days 15 working days 20 working days
25	working days
26	working days
27	working days
28	working days
30
Twenty eight years -	29 working days
Twenty nine years -	30 working days
At the request of an employee and as approved by the Company, an employee with twenty-five (25) years or more of service may take twenty-five (25) working days of vacation together with a vacation payout equivalent to any regular vacation entitlement over and above the twenty-five (25) working days of regular vacation.
14.02
Employees must accumulate one-year service from the date they commence employment with the Company prior to becoming eligible to take vacation.
14.03
Vacation pay shall he either two weeks, three weeks, four weeks, five weeks or six weeks (or portion thereof) pay or 2/52, 3/52, 4/52, 5/52 or 6/52 (or portion thereof) of the total earnings earned during the year the vacation was earned, whichever is the greater figure had he worked, as calculated on the employee's anniversary date.
14.04
Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees who are or were absent from work due to a layoff shall he entitled to vacation and receive vacation pay on a prorata basis relating to time actually worked.
14.05
Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees who are or were 31
absent from work on WCB, STD/LTD for a period of one year or more shall be entitled to, on a pro-rata basis relating to time actually worked, vacation and vacation pay.
Employees who are or were absent from work on WCB, STD/LTD for a period of less than one year shall he entitled to vacation and vacation pay in accordance with Article 14.01 and 14.03.
14.06
At the employee's option, vacation pay will either be paid to the employee on a separate cheque prior io going on vacation or with their regular pay.
14.07
Except as provided for in Article 14.12, seniority shall govern selection of vacation dates in cases of disputes. On or before January 15^ of each year, a vacation planner will he posted, in a place accessible to all employees, for the purpose of requesting vacations for the current year. Employees will request vacation on the posted planner prior to the closing date, which will normally be mid-March. Vacations will then be approved on the basis of seniority and the completed vacation planner will he reposted, normally by mid-April. The dates for posting and reposting of the vacation planner may be altered by mutual agreement.
Employees may then request vacations, including requests for less than one work cycle, on a "first come, first served” basis, for dates that remain available for vacation requests. These approved requests or changes will be confirmed in writing.
14.08
For any General Eloliday which occurs during the employee's
32
vacation, the said vacation period shall be increased by one working day for each General Holiday and the employee shall receive pay for the day.
14.09
Upon termination, an employee shall receive the unused portion of earned vacation in the form of vacation pay based upon his entitlement as provided for in this Article.
14.10
Vacations are not cumulative and must be taken in the 12-month period following eligibility.
14.11
Vacations for eligible employees will be granted as far as is practical, at times most desired by employees; provided however, the Company reserves the right of allotment of vacation periods in order to ensure orderly operation of the Mine.
14.12
If it is consistent with production and with the consent of the Company, employees may take their annual vacation in increments of at least one work cycle except where the employee has less than one cycle remaining in his entitlement and as provided for in Article 14.07. A work cycle is defined as the period from the beginning of work on the employee's first scheduled day of work until the commencement of his regularly scheduled day of rest.
14.13
Should a death occur in the employee's family as described in
33
Article 6.03 while the employee is on vacation, and subject to the provisions of Article 6.03, the employee will be permitted to re-schedule vacation for the day(s) on which bereavement leave is utilized.
ARTICLE 15 - HOURS OF WORK
15.01
a.	Any employee changing a shift different from the one he or she is scheduled for shall receive 24 hours notice. Where such notice is not given, the employee shall be paid double time for time worked on the first shift following the change. All succeeding shifts of the employee's new schedule shall be paid at the employee's regular rate. Written confirmation of this change will be provided.
Should the Company require employees to change shifts or bid units, it will determine the shifts or bid units involved, and where more than one employee is in the affected classification or on the bid unit, the senior employee(s) will be given preference. For duration's of less than one (1) month senior employees within the department and affected classification will be given preference.
b.	The normal workweek shall be five consecutive eight-hour days or shifts or as mutually agreed to.
c.	(i) Employees shall be required to work their regularly
scheduled shift exclusive of lunch break which shall be of 15 minutes duration. Employees working in excess of their regularly scheduled shift including travel time from washhouse to the worksite and return, but excluding time taken for lunch shall be paid at overtime rates. Time worked by each employee shall be recorded by means of a time clock located in the washhouse and
34
time cards shall be punched by each employee at the scheduled starting and stopping time of each shift. All lime cards must be validated by the supervisor. Subject to the exclusion of the 15-minute lunch break employees will only be paid ou the basis of the time shown on their individual time clock cards.
(ii) Ash Truck Operators at the Highvale Mine, Tradesmen, Apprentices, Field Maintenance Personnel, Shop Labourer, Tire Servicemen, Shop Servicemen Warehousemen, and Janitors shall be required to work their regularly scheduled shifts inclusive of lunch breaks which shall be of 15 minutes duration.
15.02
a.	For shift schedules that average 40 or 42 hours of work per week per employee, the Company and Union shall mutually agree to such shift schedules that are in accordance with the Company's operating requirements and associated required manpower levels, required hours of work per day and required hours of work per week in each area of the operation. In order to arrive at such mutual agreement, the Company shall propose suitable shift schedules and the Union may either agree to the shift schedules or propose alternative schedules that meet the Company's requirements at no increased labour cost.
b.	Shift schedules other than those referred to in Article 15.02(a) shall he by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
c.	Starting and stopping times shall be by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
d.	Such schedules shall be posted in conspicuous places and
35
well in advance of their effective date.
15.03
Coffee and lunch breaks during working hours shall be continued as presently practised.
15.04
At spring change to daylight saving time employees will be paid for hours worked (1 I on 12-hour shifts). At fall change to standard time employees will be paid for hours worked including any hours in excess of 12 at double time.
ARTICLE 16 - OVERTIME
16.01
Overtime will be voluntary subject to meeting the requirements of the operation and will be distributed in accordance with the guidelines of the Overtime Distribution Document in effect.
16.02
All hours worked in any one day or any one week, outside of the regularly assigned hours of work which from time to time are agreed upon by the Parties, shall be considered as overtime hours and, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be paid at double the employee's regular pay.
16.03
Any employee who, because of an emergency, is called out for duty at any time after or before his regular work period, shall be free when the emergency is over but shall, nevertheless, be paid a minimum of four hours at double the employee's regular pay. Emergency work in excess of four hours shall be paid at the rate of double time.
36
16.04
Any employee who normally is required to report for work and so reports but who, after reporting, is sent home, shall receive not less than four hours pay at such employee's regular pay, excepting Acts of God or circumstances beyond the Company's control.
16.05
Overtime shall be paid at double time.
16.06
Ali overtime shift work shall be paid shift differential pay.
16.07
A system will be implemented to eliminate the problem of employee's not arriving back at the washhouses within normal hours of work. Additional manhaul vehicle(s) will be provided to insure the problem is eliminated.
Should employees not be returned to the washhouses in accordance with the above, then the following overtime rates will apply:
1 to 7 minutes late = 8 to 23 minutes late = 24 to 38 minutes late = 38 minutes late or later =
double time rates 15 minutes at double time 30 minutes at double time the above rates applied in a logical progressive fashion (i.e.. 45 minutes at double time, etc.)
16.08
When, in the discretion of the Company, overtime is required, 37
opportunities for overtime will be distributed as equitably as practicable amongst the employees in the classification who norinally perform the work for which overtime is required, and in accordance with the jointly developed overtime distribution document. This document may be amended by mutual agreement.
16.09
Should the Company make an error when administering the overtime distribution system, and such error results in an employee not being given the opportunity to work overtime and another employee works the overtime opportunity, the following remedies will apply:
(i)	for the first two times the same employee is wronged in any one calendar year, he will be given an extraordinary overtime opportunity for each of the infractions, of a duration equal to the time worked by the employee who received the opportunity. Such opportunity will be at the discretion of the employee, provided the day selected is within 30 of his regular shifts worked from the date that it is determined that an error was made, and is on a day that the Mine is in full operation.
(ii)	for the third and subsequent errors for the same employee in the same calendar year, he will be considered as having worked for the purpose of the overtime procedure and will receive compensation at double his regular rate of pay forthe time worked by the employee who received the overtime opportunity.
The clause shall not apply when the overtime worked is the result of an emergency situation.
38
ARTICLE 17 - PAYMENT OF WAGES
17.01
All wages due to employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid them on every other Friday following the period for which their pay is due.
17.02
On each pay-day, the Company shall provide to each employee, an itemized statement setting forth the total number of hours worked by the employee concerned during the immediately preceding pay period, the rate of wages applicable to him, all deductions made from his wages whatsoever, the purpose for which such deductions were made, the total amount actually paid to him and such other information as may from time to time be agreed upon by the Parties.
17.03
The Union negotiation committee shall consist of a maximum of six employees. Each committee member will be paid eight hours per day for negotiations at their regular straight time rate. At no time will this be used for the purpose of calculating overtime.
ARTICLE 18 - DIFFERENTIALS
18.01
Employees shall be paid in addition lo other wages payable to them, a differential for all hours worked on shifts commencing between the hours of 2:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m. in the amounts of:
Afternoon shift - $0.50 per hour
Midnight shift - $ 1.00 per hour effective April 1, 2004
39
$1.05 per hour effective April 1, 2006 $ 1.10 per hour effective April 1, 2008
ARTICLE 19 - GROUP INSURANCE
19.01	Life Insurance
a.	The Company shall provide a policy of insurance for an amount of $50,000 Life Insurance and $50,000 Accidental Death and Dismemberment, a copy of which shall be supplied to the Union.
b.	An employee may purchase optional life insurance coverage subject to the insurance carrier’s approval. The cost of the optional life insurance will be payable by the employee.
c.	Coverage shall commence on the first of the month coinciding with or next following two months of continuous employment.
19.02	Dental Pian
a.	The Parties hereby agree to maintain the group dental plan for all employees covered by the scope of this Agreement. The coverage, at the current rate as set by the Alberta Blue Cross Usual and Customary Fee Guide shall be as follows:
A - Basic and Routine - 100%
B - Major and Restorative - 90%
C - Orthodontics - 50%
Maximums:	A & B combined-$2,500/person/year;
C - $2,500/person/lifetime.
The premium costs of the dental plan shall be borne in its
entirety by the Company.
b.	Coverage shall commence on the first of the month
40
coinciding with or next following two months of continuous employment.
19.03	Health Care
a.	The Company will pay the entire cost of the appropriate Alberta Health Care Insurance premiums for all employees, excluding employee arrears.
b.	The Company will reimburse employees for any extra costs associated with medical information required and requested by the insurance carrier or Company.
19.04	Long Term Disability
a.	The Company will provide a Long Term Disability Plan. The cost of the Long Term Disability Plan will be borne in its entirety by the Company. The Plan shall include the following conditions:
(i)	Effective after 17 weeks disability;
(ii)	Benefits equal to 60% of salary;
(iii)	Maximum benefits will be 60% of the weighted average for the bargaining unit. The weighted average calculation will not include employees hired as Labourers or Watchmen/Janitors after September 21, 1987.
b.	Coverage shall commence on the first of the month coinciding with or next following two months of continuous employment.
c.	If any employee on Long Term Disability is unable to perform the duties of his regular job classification the Company shall appoint such employee to do alternate work to be paid at the rate for such work.
41
No employee will be appointed to do alternate work under this clause unless the Company determines that the completion of the alternate work is necessary and the employee has received clearance to perform the alternate work by a medical practitioner selected jointly by the Company and the Union.
Evidence of the medical practitioner's clearance to return to work shall be provided to the Highvale Unit Executive.
Employees who refuse such alternate work shall be terminated, unless the Union and the Company mutually agree to a lesser discipline.
19.05	Short Term Disability
a.	The Company will provide a Short Term Disability Plan. The cost of the Short Term Disability Plan will be borne in its entirety by the Company. The Plan shall include the following conditions:
(i)	Benefits commence the first day of the accident and/or hospitalization; and the sixth day of illness;
(ii)	Benefits continue for 17 weeks duration;
(iii)	Benefits will be equal to 66 2/3% of salary.
b.	Coverage shall coininence on the first of the month coinciding with or next following two months of continuous employment.
19.06	Major Medical
a.	The Company will provide a major medical plan for all employees and dependants. The cost of this plan shall be borne in its entirety by the Company. The plan shall include the following conditions:
42
(i)	Semiprivate hospital coverage:
(ii)	The payment for ambulance services:
(iii)	Prepaid prescription drug plan with a coinsurance of 100% towards the cost of prescriptions, and an annual deductible of $15.00 for either single or family coverage;
(iv)	All other coverage as provided for in the Plan booklet.
b.	Coverage shall commence on the first of the month coinciding with or next following two months of continuous employment.
19.07 Optical
a.	The Company shall provide an optical plan to provide a maximum of $200.00 in each 24 month period, for an employee or employee's spouse and each dependent child toward the purchase of prescription glasses or corrective lenses purchased in that period. The cost shall be verified by an appropriate receipt. For the purpose of this clause, a 24 month period will be that period from April 1 s' in one year to March 31st two years thereafter.
b.	The Company shall provide an optical plan to provide a maximum of $200.00 in each 24 month period for an employee toward the purchase of prescription safety glasses purchased in that period. The cost shall be verified by an appropriate receipt. For the purpose of this clause, a 24 month period will be that period from April 1st in one year to March 31s' two years thereafter.
c.	Coverage shall commence on the first of the month coinciding with or next following two months of continuous employment.
43
19.08
Coverage provided shall be subject to the terms and conditions as set out in general terms in the Collective Agreement and, where applicable, as per the specifics of coverage as set out in each insurance agreement. The coverage as set out in each document may not be amended without the mutual agreement of the parties. Should the Company opt to self-insure, coverage will remain as per the last insurance document. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company reserves the right to retain alternate insurance providers.
a.	A copy of all insurance plans and policies covering employees within the bargaining unit will be supplied to the Union by the Company.
19.09
During the term of this agreement, the Company and Union agree to work cooperatively in reviewing the disability management program in effect at the minesite incorporating a modified work philosophy which recognizes early intervention and individual rehabilitation.
ARTICLE 20 - SICK LEAVE ACCUMULATIVE
20.01
Each employee shall maintain accumulated sick leave credits up to a maximum of one year or 260 days.
As of January 1, 1981 and each succeeding year, each employee will be credited with five sick leave days.
For new employees such credits will be granted from the date of commencement of employment but no employee shall be entitled to sick leave pay until he has completed three months of
44
continuous employment. Unused sick leave credits earned since January I, 1981 will not be carried into the years following the year which they are earned.
The employee will have the option of using his credited sick leave days and/or the Short Term Disability Plan and Long Term Disability Plan.
20.02
Every employee who may be absent from duty on account of sickness shall notify his immediate supervisor and no employee shall be entitled to benefits for time previous to such notification, unless the delay shall be shown to have been unavoidable.
If an employee does not report one half hour prior to the commencement of the shift that he will not be in to work due to illness or a non-occupational injury, the employee will forfeit two hours of eligible sick leave pay.
20.03
Before payment is made under sick leave benefits, the Company may require a medical certificate or a written statement from the employee and in cases of lengthy illness, the Company shall call for physician's reports from time to time as it deems necessary.
20.04
The Company reserves the right to call for an examination at any time by a physician designated by the Company if such procedure is deemed advisable.
20.05
For the purpose of this Article, sickness shall include injury 45
other than accidental injury arising out of and in the course of employment by the Company. It is understood that this Article does not apply when an employee is employed by an employer other than the Company or on Workers Compensation.
20.06
The Company agrees to prepare and post in January, April, July and October of each year, in places accessible to all employees, a statement listing the names of all employees indicating the amounts of sick leave credits used by each for the preceding three month period. Such statement shall be open to protest for a period of 30 days and on presentation by a member of the Union of proof of error, a correction shall be made immediately. Such corrections shall be shown on a supplementary statement. In addition to the foregoing, the Company agrees to supply the Union, in January of each year, with a statement of the unexpended sick leave credits as of December 31st, in respect of all employees.
20.07
In the event that an employee’s absence due to illness extends from one year into the next, our policy in future will be that this will not affect the employee’s eligibility for sick day payout in the new year. Once an employee has returned to active duty at the mine, any subsequent absence will reduce the employee’s sick day payout eligibility.
ARTICLE 21 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
21.01
Where circumstances warrant and as mutually agreed upon, a five-minute washup period shall be granted for employees before the end of each shift.
46
21.02
There shall be a maximum of eight Shop Stewards at the Highvale Mine covered under the scope of this Agreement.
21.03
The Company shall pay an employee who is required for jury service, the difference between his pay for his regular shifts normally worked and the daily jury fee received. In the event an employee is subpoenaed to appear in court as a witness in a matter in which he has no direct interest, he shall be offered alternative shifts at his regular pay to make up for money lost.
21.04
The Company agrees:
a.	To pay to pupils attending Trade School, an amount of money that together with the amount or amounts of money paid to the pupil by any outside agency, will constitute 100% of the pupil's normal salary.
b.	Apprentice selections will be based on the Seniority, Provincial Pre-Apprentice Test results and related experience of candidates bidding for posted apprenticeships. Selection criteria will be weighted as follows:
(i)	Seniority 35%
(ii)	Test Results 30%
(iii)	Related Experience 35%*
* Related experience will be determined by a joint committee consisting of three members appointed by the Union and three members appointed by the Company.
c.	In the event that an apprentice fails the tests at the end of his
47
period of training in the Vocational School, the apprentice will be given an opportunity to rewrite his/her examination or take a leave of absence without pay or any other company paid allowances to re-attend that period of training. In the event he/she selects the leave of absence his seniority will be maintained.
d.	Apprentice tradesmen, who maintain a permanent residence in excess of 80 kilometres from the institution they attend will be paid a maximum of $350.00 per month for the additional room and board costs incurred while attending school.
e.	The Company agrees to provide Technical School Training to Mine Electricians toward Mine Electricians achieving "Journeyman" status. This program shall be initiated immediately.
f.	Blaster Trainee
Employees will be selected as per Article 11 and must be prepared to have the necessary qualifications as set out in the applicable Government Legislation.
Each such employee shall be required to sit for examination each year and in the event of failure to pass such examination, the Company shall have the right to remove such Blaster Trainee from this classification.
g.	Employees who take upgrading courses specifically approved by the Company shall have their tuition paid upon successful completion of the course.
21.0s
Personal tools required by an employee on the job will be
replaced by the Company with same brand or equivalent if they
have been lost or damaged on the job site. Personal toolboxes
48
will be repaired or replaced if damaged on the job-site
Each employee who is required to supply tools shall prepare an inventory of his tools and this inventory shall be verified and cosigned by a management representative at the time of hire. Signed copies of the inventory shall be retained by the Company and the employee. Any employee purchasing new tools shall report such additions to his Foreman and they shall each initial amendments to the inventory and copies of such amendments shall be retained by the Company and the employee.
21.06
After two (2) hours of overtime which is continuous with an employee’s regular shift, or after two consecutive hours on call out duty the employee may request a hot meal or a meal voucher with a value of $10.00.
21.07
The Company shall provide and bear the cost of a sufficient supply of new collective agreements, in book form, to the Union.
21.08
Where the masculine pronoun is used in this agreement, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun, unless the context clearly provides otherwise.
21.09
The Company and the Union agree that they will not discriminate against any employee due to race, colour, creed, sex, age, nationality, political beliefs, physical or mental
49
disability, marital status or Union membership.
21.10
The Company will provide the Union with a locking bulletin hoard not smaller than four feet square in the locker rooms, or in another place as mutually agreed to, for the sole purpose of posting Union notices and official papers pertaining to Union affairs. Notices will be posted only by Officers of the Union and will he in keeping with the spirit and intent of this agreement.
21.11
Monthly Union/Management meetings will be held to discuss issues relating to labour relations and technological change, based on the following conditions:
a.	There shall he a maximum of three members appointed on behalf of the Company and three members appointed on behalf of the Union.
b.	All meetings are to be held on site.
c.	The members appointed by both parties shall decide how the meetings are to be structured and the date the meetings are to occur.
d.	The members appointed by the Union shall not suffer a loss in regular earnings as a result of said meetings.
e.	Minutes of meetings will be jointly reviewed and signed prior to being posted. The minutes will be posted on the designated bulletin boards within seven (7) calendar days of the meeting.
21.12
Post-secondary students may he hired for the period of May 1st through September 71'1 at the entry level labourer's rate. In the case of high school students hired for the period of May 1s* through September 7**\ they will be paid at the rate of $9.00 per hour.
50
Students will not qualify for any benefits, allowances or income replacement plans (including sick days arid sick day buy-out) under the terms of the Collective Agreement, but will be eligible for statutory holiday pay and shift differentials as set out in the Collective Agreement. Students shall have all rights as specified in the Collective Agreement dealing with the grievance procedure.
Students working on in scope duties, with the exception of Labourer, Water Truck Operator, End Dump Operator (under 90 tons) or Warehouse will he paid at the appropriate rates of pay for that classification under the Collective Agreement.
The Union waives initiation fees for students hired May 1st through September 7^ at the Highvale Mine. Regular union dues will be deducted from post-secondary students and deducted from high school students at the rate of 60% of regular dues. Any employee on layoff with recall rights will be returned to work prior to the hiring of summer students
51
ARTICLE 22 - OCCUPATIONAL CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
22.01
CLASSIFICATION	RATE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 20043.5%	RATE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 20053.0%	RATE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 20064.0%	RATE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 20074.0%*	RATE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 20084.0%*
Certified Welder	S29.10	$29.97	$31.17	$32.42	$33.72
Certified Tipple Welder	$29.10	$29.97	$31.17	$32.42	$33.72
Certified Field Maintenance					
Mechanic	$29.10	$29.97	$31.17	$32.42	$33.72
Certified Mobile Maintenance					
Mechanic	$29.10	$29.97	$31.17	$32.42	$33.72
Certified Electrician	$29.10	$29.97	$31.17	$32.42	$33.72
Certified Millwrieht	$29.10	$29.97	$31.17	$32.42	$33.72
Certified Machinist	$29.10	$29.97	$31.17	$32.42	$33.72
Certified Carpenter	$29.10	29.97	$31.17	$32.42	$33.72
Certified Light Duty Mechanic	$29.10	$29.97	$31.17	$32.42	$33.72
Shovel Onerator	$28.47	$29.32	$30.49	$31.71	$32.98
Front-End Loader Operator	$28.47	$29.32	$30.49	$31.71	$32.98
Dragline Onerator	$28.47	$29.32	$30.49	$31.71	$32.98
Crane Operator	$28.47	$29.32	$30.49	$31.71	$32.98
Certified Blaster	$28.47	$29.32	$30.49	$31.7!	$32,98
Coal Handling Plant Onerator	$27.39	$28.21	$29.34	$30.51	$31.73
Tire Serviceman	$26.96	$27.77	$28.88	$30.04	$31.24
Trac-Truck Serviceman	$26.96	$27.77	S28.88	$30.04	$31.24
Light Duty Trac-Truck Serviceman	$26,96	$27.77	S28.88	$30.04	$31.24
Crawler Tractor Onerator	$26.96	$27.77	S28.88	$30.04	$31.24
Power Scraper Onerator	$26.96	$27.77	$28.88	$30.04	$31.24
Site And Drainage Backhoe Operator	$26.96	$27.77	$28.88	$30.04	$31.24
Production Department Backhoe Operator	$26.96	$27.77	$28.88	$30.04	$31.24
52
CLASSIFICATION	HATE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 20043.5%	RATE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 20053.0%	RATE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 20064.0%	RaTT" EFFECTIVE APRIL I, 20074,0%*	RATE EFFECT1VI APRIL 1, 20084.0%*
Shovel & Dragline Oiler	$26.59	$27,39	$28,49	$29.63	$30,82
Field Maintenance Oiler	$26.59	$27.39	$28.49	$29.63	$30.82
Trac-Truck Driver	$26.59	$27.39	$28.49	$29.63	$30.82
Trac-Truck Ash Driver	$26.59	$27.39	$28.49	$29.63	$30,82
Trac-Truck Equipment Hauler Driver	$26.59	$27.39	$28.49	$29.63	$30.82
Coal Handling Plant Oiler	$26.59	$27.39	$28.49	$29,63	$30.82
Road Maintenance Operator	$26.59	$27.39	$28.49	$29.63	$30.82
Services Road Maintenance Operatoi	$26.59	$27.39	$28.49	$29.63	$30.82
Drill Operator	$26.59	$27.39	$28.49	$29.6.1	$30.82
Tradesman's Helner	$26.38	$27.17	$28.26	$29.39	$30.57
Pit Pumpman	$26.38	$27.17	$28.26	$29.39	$30.57
Warehouseman	$23.69	$24.40	$25.38	$26.40	$27.46
Blaster's Helper	$23.69	$24.40	$25.38	$26.40	$27.46
Shlnner/Receiver	$23.69	$24.40	$25.38	$26.40	$27.46
Labourer		$22.69	$23.37	$24.30	$25.27	$26.28
Watchman-Janitor	$22.69	$23.37	$24.30	$25.27	$26.28
Labourer (hired after Sept. 21/871	$17.64	$18.17	$18.90	$19.66	$20.45
Watchman-Janitor' (hired after Sept, 21/871	$1764	■ $18.17		—118.90	119.66	$20,45.
*In years 4 and 5 the rate of pay increase shall be a minimum of 4% or the CPI for Edmonton actual percentage increase for the previous year to a maximum of 5%. The CPI percentage will be determined by the published Statistics Canada Consumer Price Index for April 1st to March 31st of each corresponding year, (i.e. the increase for April 1, 2007, would be based on the CPI monthly average for April 1, 2006, to March 31, 2007.)
53
TRADESMEN APPRENTICE
First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year
60% of Certified Rate 70% of Certified Rate 80% of Certified Rate 90% of Certified Rate
NOTE: Three-year apprentice trades eliminate the second year level.
a.	Labourers who are successful in obtaining a new hid position, and have successfully completed their training of trial period in the new classification, but are subsequently bumped pursuant to Article 9 to a labourer position, or are reverted back to a labourer position by the company, shall be paid the labourer rate without reference to their date of hire.
b.	A Heavy Duty Mechanic Apprentice replacing a Trac-Truck Serviceman may elect to receive a rate over-ride for the period of time spent working as a Serviceman. If the employee elects to receive the rate over-ride, such period of time will not count towards his apprenticeship hours. No rate over-ride shall be given when an Apprentice is replacing a Tradesman’s Helper.
c.	In order to receive the Blaster’s Flelper rate of pay, an individual must obtain and maintain the Provincial Blaster’s Certification, he working on the Blasting crew and willing to act as a Certified Blaster when required.
ARTICLE 23 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
23.01
The Union agrees there shall be no strikes and the Company agrees there shall be no lockouts during the term of this Agreement.
54
ARTICLE 24 - PENSION PLAN
24.01
It is understood and agreed that the terms and conditions of the document entitled "Pension Plan for Hourly Employees of LuscarLtd. - Highvale Mine" as established January 1, 1975 and as amended are accepted. The benefit levels in effect as of December 31, 1998 will not be altered or amended without the consent of the Union.
Effective January 1, 1999 the defined benefit pension plan will be amended to increase the death benefit provided to 100% of the commuted value of the pension benefit to which the employee would have been entitled in respect of such credited service had he terminated employment on the date of his death, for all service prior to October 1, 1992.
24.02
New Employees will be required to join the Pension Plan upon completion of 30 calendar days of employment with the Company.
24.03
The Union shall receive a copy of the Pension Plan and copies of all amendments, proposed changes and actuarial studies relating to the Pension Plan that are produced during the term of this Collective Agreement.
24.04
The Company agrees to meet on a joint basis with all unions representing employees who are plan members once but in no event more than twice in any one calendar year to review the annual actuarial extrapolation of the Pension Plan for Hourly
55
Employees of Luscar Ltd. and to discuss other matters if any, related solely to the Pension Plan and its administration. The actuarial valuation will he reviewed as above, in the years it is required to be filed by law.
These meetings may be attended by a maximum of two union representatives from the mine site who may be accompanied by a representative from their National union.
24.05
Effective April I, 2002, the Company agrees to remove the 35 year limit on the maximum pension provision of the Plan.
ARTICLE 25 - EMPLOYEE & FAMILY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
25.01
The parties agree to the ongoing support, during the term of this Agreement, to an Employee and Family Assistance Program. The program shall be administered on a joint basis and the procedures of the program shall he mutually agreed upon. The program will be reviewed on a quarterly basis.
ARTICLE 26 - WORKING RESTRICTIONS
26.01
The Company and the Union agree that neither a foreman nor a relief foreman shall perform the work that is usually performed by Union members, except in emergencies arising out of an act of nature, or sickness, provided every reasonable effort has been made to obtain an employee for the work in question.
56
ARTICLE 27 ■ CONTRACTING OUT
27.01
The Company agrees that it will not contract out work at the operation which is normally performed by employees if an employee will be terminated or laid off and such employee is qualified to perform the work.
Such contracting out shall not result in the loss of work to any Highvale employee whose name appears on the current Seniority list.
27.02
The Company and Union Executive shall meet monthly to discuss and review contracting out, including warranty work.
When work is to be contracted out, the Company will advise the Union of the following:
a)	the work being contracted out.
b)	the expected duration of the contract.
c)	the anticipated number of contracted employees.
27.03
No member of the Highvale Unit Executive shall suffer a loss in earnings as a result of said meetings.
27.04
This meeting shall be held in conjunction with the regularly monthly Union/Management meetings.
57
ARTICLE 28 - COOLING SYSTEMS 28.01
The Company agrees to install an air conditioning system in the lunchrooms at the Highvale Mine.
Circulating fans will be installed in the cab of all equipment.
All new major equipment will be purchased with air conditioning. Air conditioning will be installed on existing major equipment during major rebuilds e.g. certified rebuilds.
58
ARTICLE 29 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
29.01
This Agreement shall be effective as of the First day of April, 2004 and shall remain in force and effect up to and including the 31st day of March, 2009 and from year to year thereafter providing that either party may, not less than 60 days nor more than 120 days prior to the anniversary date hereof give notice in writing to the other party of their intention to terminate this Agreement or negotiate a revision thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties hereto have caused these presents to be executed the day and year First above written. Luscar Ltd.,	United Steelworkers of America,
Highvale Mine	Local 1595
A1 Brown	Dale Friedel
General Manager	President
Michel Panet-Raymond	Clint Yates
Manager, Human Resources	Vice-president
Roger Twemlow	Walter Case
Mine Manager	Recording Secretary
GaryWoloszyn Financial Secretary
Rick Stecyk Inside Guard
59
Dan Will
Staff Representative
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2004-01 BETWEEN:
LUSCAR LTD.
HIGHVALE MINE -AND-
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595
RE: Compressed Work Week 12-Hour Shift Schedule
For purposes of the I2 hour shift schedule:
a.	A tour will be the number of scheduled consecutive working days without a scheduled day off;
b.	A work week will be defined as that period of time commencing at 7:00 a.m. Sunday and terminating 168 hours thereafter on the succeeding Sunday;
c.	Unless otherwise scheduled by the Company, day shift will be 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and night shift will be 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
d.	Shift differential will be paid in the amount of $1.00 (effective April 1, 2004), $1.05 (effective April 1, 2006) and $1.10 (effective April I, 2008) per hour for night shifts. No shift differential will be paid for day shift.
e.	This shift schedule repeats itself after eight weeks
1.	a. The agreed upon compressed work week schedule 60
averages 42 hours of work per week over an eight week cycle. The scheduled overtime will be prevented by scheduling time off in lieu.
b.	Employees must complete a minimum of four tours as defined in this letter of agreement, before time off in lieu will be granted.
c.	Overtime will not be paid if incurred as a result of discontinuing the 12 hour shift schedule.
d.	Mutual trades of shifts or days off must be in writing, signed by both parties, and approved by the Mine Manager or his designate, 48 hours before proposed, to ensure coverage.
e.	The principles that govern lieu days are:
The Company will pay overtime to those employees required to work their scheduled lieu days.
The Company will determine shift schedules as per the Collective Agreement: Article 15.02 a.
The Company will determine the number of employees required to work lieu days.
The procedure for filling the lieu day overtime will be the practice that is utilized for General Holidays as described in the Overtime Distribution Document in effect.
f.	Whenever practicable and subject to meeting the requirements of the operation, the following guidelines will apply to the scheduling of lieu shifts;
i.	Six (6)scheduled crew lieu shifts will be scheduled
61
on the last shift of a ninety-six (96) hour pay period for each crew throughout the calendar year.
ii.	Three (3) floating lieu shifts will be scheduled at the employee’s request with the Company’s approval. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Should the employee not make a request to schedule the floating lieu shifts by the final quarter of the calendar year, the Company will advise the employee to make his request or have the remaining floating lieu shifts scheduled by the Company, subject lo operational requirements.
iii.	Employees may request partial shifts be applied toward floating lieu shifts. Employees must obtain prior approval from the Company for partial shifts as lieu shifts. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld and will be subject to operational requirements.
iv.	All requests for floating lieu shifts must be made in writing using the appropriate Company form and approved prior to the lieu time being taken.
2.	a. For the purpose of the 12 hour shift schedule, a General Holiday will begin at 7:00 a.m. on the day of the General Holiday and end at 7:00 a.m. on the day following the General Holiday with the exception of Christinas Day, Boxing Day. and New Years Day which will be observed from 7:00 p.m. of the day preceding the General Holiday until 7:00 p.m. on the day of the General Holiday.
b.	The days listed as per Article 13.01 shall be observed as holidays with 12 hours pay per employee normally scheduled to work, and eight hours pay per employee
62
not normally scheduled to work.
c.	When any of the above mentioned holidays fall during the period of an employee's regularly assigned day or days of rest, there will be no additional time off granted, nor will overtime be incurred.
d.	All time worked on a General Holiday will be paid as per Article 13.03 of the Collective Agreement. A General Holiday will be observed as defined in clause 2(a) and 2(b) of this letter of agreement.
3.	a. Vacations will be granted in accordance with Article 14 of the Collective Agreement as it relates to qualifying for vacation and vacation pay. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 14 of this Collective Agreement, actual vacation pay and time off will be determined as follows:
One Year Three Years Nine Years Nineteen Years Twenty five years Twenty six years Twenty seven years Twenty eight years Twenty nine years
80 Hours 120 Hours 160 Hours 200 Hours 208 Hours 216 Hours 224 Hours 232 Hours 240 Hours
At the request of an employee and as approved by the Company, an employee with twenty-five (25) years or more of service may take 200 hours of vacation together with a vacation payout equivalent to any regular vacation entitlement over and above the 200 hours of regular vacation.
63
b.	For any General Holiday which occurs during the employee's vacation, the said vacation period shall be increased by eight hours for each General Holiday and the employee shall receive eight hours pay.
c.	Vacations will be granted on the basis of 12-hour days. Employees with less than one year of completed service will be subject to Article 14.02 of the Collective
Agreement.
d.	Days of vacation will be based on hours of entitlement rounded to the nearest 12 hours. This will include General Holiday entitlement where applicable.
4.	Special leaves of absence as stated in Article 6.03 of the present Collective Agreement shall convert to shifts. This shall be interpreted as a maximum of 36 hours leave with pay in the case of death in the employee's immediate family and in the event of other stated members, 12 hours of leave with pay shall be granted.
5.	a. Group insurance policies will be maintained ai per
Article 19 of the Collective Agreement, based on an eight hour day, 40 hour work week.
b.	The five days sick leave, as stated in Article 20.01 of the Collective Agreement, will convert to 40 hours sick leave entitlement.
c.	Sick leave credits accumulated before January 1, 1981 will also be expressed in hours for each individual, with one-day entitlement being eight hours.
6.	Normal coffee breaks and lunch periods of the 12-hour shift schedule will be as follows:
Effective April 1, 2004;
64
DAY SHIFT
NIGHT SHIFT
Effective April DAY SHIFT
NIGHT SHIFT
15 minute break 15 minute break 15 minute break 15 minute break
15 minute break 15 minute break 15 minute break 15 minute break
1, 2006;
20 minute break 20 minute break 20 minute break
20 minute break 20 minute break 20 minute break
at 09:15 a.m. at 11:45 a.m. at 02:15 p.m. at 04:45 p.m.
at 09:15 p.m. at 11:45 p.m. at 02:15 a.m. at 04:45 a.m.
at 10:00 a.m. at 01:00 p.m. at 04:00 p.m.
at 10:00 p.m at 01:00 a.m. at 04:00 a.m.
7.	With reference to the warehouse personnel, there will be one person designated to provide coverage for the following:
a.	normal lieu days, as required, for those employees following the compressed work week schedule.
b.	annual vacation, as required, for those employees following the compressed work week schedule.
c.	sick time, as required, for those employees following the compressed work week schedule.
The person designated to provide this coverage work on an eight-hour shift, 40-hour workweek basis will be given time off in lieu for the hours of coverage provided.
65
For those warehouse employees following the compressed workweek schedule, any lieu day which is normally scheduled on Sunday will be rescheduled to that Monday.
Due to the nature of the job performed, the flexibility which presently exists, with regards to coffee and lunch breaks, will remain.
it is expressly understood that this letter of agreement applies to the HIGHVALE MINE only and remains in effect for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
RENEWED this 25th day of March, 2004
FOR THE COMPANY AI Brown
Michel Panet-Raymond Roger Twemlow
FOR THE UNION Dale Friedel Walter Case Rick Stecyk Gary Woloszyn Clint Yates Dan Will
66
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2004-02
BETWEEN:
LUSCAR LTD.
HIGHVALE MINE - AND-
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1S9S RE:	Compressed Work WeeklO-Hour Shift Schedule
For purposes of the 10 hour shift schedule:
Unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union, the regular hours of work will be 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
1.	Mutual trades of shifts or days off must be in writing, signed by both parties and approved by the Mine Manager or his designate, 48 hours before proposed, to ensure coverage.
2.	a. The days listed as per Article 13.01 shall be observed as
holidays with eight hours of pay per employee.
b.	Article 13.02 of the Collective Agreement shall apply.
c.	Ail time worked on a General Holiday will be paid as per Article 13.03 of the Collective Agreement.
3.	a. Vacations will be granted in accordance with Article 14 of
the Collective Agreement as it relates to qualifying for vacation and vacation pay. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 14 of this Collective Agreement, actual pay and time off will be determined as follows:
67
One Year	80 hours pay
Three Years	120 hours pay
Nine Years	160 hours pay
Nineteen Years	200 hours pay
Twenty five years	208 hours pay
Twenty six years	216 hours pay
Twenty seven years	224 hours pay
Twenty eight years	232 hours pay
Twenty nine years	240 hours pay
At the request of an employee and as approved by the Company, an employee with twenty-five (25) years or more of service may take 200 hours of vacation together with a vacation payout equivalent to any regular vacation entitlement over and above the 200 hours of regular vacation.
b.	For any General Holiday which occurs during the employee's vacation, the said vacation period shall be increased by eight hours for each General Holiday and the employee shall receive eight hours pay.
c.	Vacations will be granted on the basis of IO-hour days. Employees with less than one year of completed service will be subject to Article 14.02 of the Collective Agreement.
d.	Days of vacation will be based on hours of entitlement rounded to the nearest 10 hours. This will include General Holiday entitlement where applicable.
4.	Special leaves of absence as stated in Article 6.03 of the present Collective Agreement shall convert to shifts. This shall be interpreted as a maximum of 30 hours leave with pay in the case of death in the employee's immediate family and in the event of other stated members, 10 hours of leave with pay shall be granted.
68
5.	a. Group insurance policies will be maintained as per Article
19 of the Collective Agreement, based on an eight-hour day, 40-hour week.
b.	The five days sick leave, as stated in Article 20.01 of the Collective Agreement, will convert to 40 hours sick leave entitlement.
c.	Sick leave credits accumulated before January 1, 1981 will also be expressed in hours for each individual, with one-day entitlement being eight hours.
6.	Normal coffee breaks and lunch periods of 10-hour shift schedule will be as follows:
10 minute break at 09:00 a.m.
15 minute break at 11:00 a.m.
10 minute break at 01:00 p.m.
15 minute break at 03:00 p.m.
It is expressly understood that this letter of agreement applies to the H1GHVALE MINE only and remains in effect for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
RENEWED this 25th day of March, 2004.
FOR THE COMPANY AI Brown
Michel Panet-Raymond Roger Twemlow
FOR THE UNION
Dale Friedel
Walter Case
Rick
Gary
Clint
Dan Will
69
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2004-03
BETWEEN:
LUSCAR LTD. HIGHVALE MINE -AND-
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595 RE: Lead Hand
The Company may designate employees as lead hands and they will receive $ 1.00 per hour more than his regular rate. A lead hand acts as a leader of a group or groups of employees working on similar or related work. He assigns work to the men as directed by the Supervisor and works along with and coordinates work among them. The lead hand functions as a work leader and not as a Supervisor. He is responsible for the correct completion of work but not for disciplinary action or other personnel matters which are the responsibility of the Supervisor to whom the lead hand reports. The lead hand function is not considered to be a permanent position. The lead hand will revert back to his former position immediately after termination of his lead hand position. Lead hands will not be used to replace Foremen or Relief Foremen.
RENEWED this 29^ day of January, 2004.
FOR THE COMPANY AI Brown
Michel Panet-Raymond Roger Twemlow
FOR THE UNION Dale Friedel Walter Case Rick Stecyk Gary Woloszyn Clint Yates Dan Will
70
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#2004-04
BETWEEN:
LUSCAR LTD. HIGHVALE MINE - AND-
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595 RE: Sick Pay Pay-out
Those employees who have not utilized their yearly sick pay entitlement from the prior calendar year shall be paid 50% of their unused entitlement in the first pay period of January of each year. For the purpose of determining whether sick time has been utilized, absence due to illness or injury other than an accidental injury arising out of and in the course of employment by the Company shall be deemed sickness. However, employees who have accumulated sick time prior to 1981 may utilize such time without impacting upon their entitlement to the 50% payment until such banked sick time is exhausted.
RENEWED this 26* day of February, 2004.
FOR THE COMPANY AI Brown
Michel Panet-Raymond Roger Twemlow
FOR THE UNION Dale Friedel Walter Case Rick Stecyk Gary Woloszyn Clint Yates Dan Will
71
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2004-05
BETWEEN:
LUSCAR LTD. HIGHVALE MINE - AND-
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595 RE: Hot Change
The Company agrees to maintain the current practice of payment for employees who are required to hot change before the majority of the remaining positions’ start time of work.
The positions that are presently involved include:
Dragline Operators Dragline Oilers
Pre-Strip Trac-Truck Operators Pre-Strip Loader Operators
The Union and Company agree that at the request of either party, the parties will review the time paid for hot change and/or the positions involved and will make adjustments where mutually agreed.
RENEWED this 28^ day of January, 2004.
FOR THE COMPANY AI Brown
Michel Panet-Raymond Roger Twemlow
FOR THE UNION Dale Friedel Walter Case Rick Stecyk Gary Woloszyn Clint Yates Dan Will
72
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2004-06
BETWEEN:
LUSCAR LTD.
HIGHVALE MINE -AND-
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595
RE: Relief Foremen
The Union and Company agree to apply the following rules and
guidelines to bargaining unit employees when they act as a
Relief Foreman;
1.	The requirement to use and the selection of Relief Foremen will he determined by the Company and will be its exclusive responsibility.
2.	Relief Foremen will he actively involved and registered with the Provincial Occupational Health and Safety Supervisory Education Program, hold valid certificates for Basic First Aid and Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation 1 and meet all other requirements of the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Regulation and Code in effect at the time and have two years minimum Highvale Site experience.
3.	Relief Foremen will perform the duties and responsibilities of regular Foremen save and except for the issuance of discipline and C.I.R.’s,
4.	Relief Foremen who work a complete shift will be paid;
73
•	$32.00 per hour for the regular shift:
•$45.00 shift premium when required to perform the pre and post shift duties and responsibilities not to exceed one and a half hours;
•Time worked over and above the one and half hours required for the pre and post shift duties and responsibilities will be paid at double the Relief Foreman’s rate.
5.	Relief Foremen who work less than a complete shift will be paid;
•	$32.00 per hour for hours actually worked acting as a relief foreman.
6.	Relief Foremen who work a complete overtime shift will be paid;
•	Double the Relief Foreman’s rate for the regular shift; •$45.00 shift premium when required to perform the pre
and post shift duties and responsibilities not to exceed one and a half hours;
• Time worked over and above the one and half hours required for the pre and post shift duties and responsibilities will be paid at double the Relief Foreman’s rate.
7.	Relief Foremen who work an overtime shift will be stale dated pursuant to the overtime agreement in effect.
8.	Employees who work more than six (6)hours in a shift as a Relief Foreman will not be eligible to work overtime on that shift in any classifications covered by the Collective Agreement unless all other employees on shift capable of performing the work have been offered and refused the overtime first.
74
9.	The Union and Company will ensure that Relief Foremen understand and administer the overtime scheduling procedures required pursuant to the overtime agreement in effect.
10.	Employees who act as Relief Foremen shall continue to accumulate seniority; however such employees shall not accumulate any seniority for time worked as Relief Foremen in excess of 360 hours in that calendar year. The Company will provide the Union with a monthly list of all hours worked by Relief Foremen.
11.	Notification in a form acceptable to both the Union and the Company will be made to the Union whenever an employee is acting as a Relief Foreman.
12.	Employees who are promoted lo a permanent supervisory position are exempt from coverage under the Collective Agreement.
13.	It is understood by both parties that, should this Letter of Understanding not be renewed or incorporated into the Collective Agreement in the future, then Article 11, marginal paragraph 11.10 will form part of and be reinserted into the Collective Agreement.
FOR THE COMPANY AI Brown
Michel Panet-Raymond Roger Twemlow
FOR THE UNION
Dale Friedel
Walter Case
Rick
Gary
Clint
Dan Will
Dated this 26^ day of February, 2004.
75
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2004-07
BETWEEN:
LUSCAR LTD.
HIGHVALE MINE - AND-
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595 RE: Contracting Out
The Company assures the Union that it will continue its general operating policy of placing primary reliance on its own employees to perform production and maintenance work and therefore, use its best efforts to minimize the amount of production and maintenance work to be contracted out provided it has the manpower, skills, equipment, facilities and that it is safe and economical to do so.
The Company and the Union will establish a joint committee consisting of three (3) Union representatives and three (3) Company representatives to review and make recommendations on contracting out practices and shall include Union and Company representatives familiar with the work being contracted out. The objectives of the committee shall be:
(i.) To establish a list of work that is historically contracted out.
(ii.) To review and preview planned work that has been or is expected to be contracted out in an effort to explore possible alternatives taking into consideration the efficiency of the operation, the urgency of the work to
76
be performed, the availability of manpower, skills, equipment, facilities, that the work can be performed safely and the economic viability.
(iii.) To actively support production and maintenance programs which aid in the efficiency of the operation.
FOR THE COMPANY AI Brown
Michel Panet-Raymond Roger Twemlow
FOR THE UNION
Dale Friedel
Walter Case
Rick
Gary
Clint
Dan Will
Dated this 161*1 day of March, 2004,
77
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2004-08
BETWEEN:
LUSCAR LTD.
HIGHVALE MINE -AND-
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595 RE: Retiree Group Benefits * •
Within the first eighteen (18) months of the new Collective Agreement, the Company will implement a benefit program at retirement.
Through this process the Company will research options that would allow retired employees to purchase benefits at a reduced market rate versus individual premium rates.
Benefits that will be reviewed will include:
•	Prescriptions coverage
•	Vision care
•	Paramedical coverage
•	Dental
The program must meet all of the following criteria:
1.	The Company will identify a carrier
2,	The retired employees will hear the full cost of premiums
78
3.	Administration costs will be borne by the Company
4.	The program cannot negatively impact the operations of the Company’s regular benefit program and associated costs.
All criteria must be met before implementation will take place.
FOR THE COMPANY AI Brown
Michel Panet-Raymond Roger Twemlow
FOR THE UNION Dale Friedel Walter Case Rick Stecyk Gary Woloszyn Clint Yates Dan Will
Dated this 251*1 day of March, 2004.
79
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2004-09
BETWEEN:
LUSCAR LTD. HIGHVALE MINE -AND-
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595
RE: Coveralls
The Company will supply one (1) pair of coveralls with reflective striping to each active employee at the beginning of each calendar year at no cost to the employee. The coveralls will bear the Union and Company logos and employee name.
FOR THE COMPANY AI Brown
Michel Panet-Raymond Roger Twemlow
FOR THE UNION Dale Friedel Walter Case Rick Stecyk Gary Woloszyn Clint Yates Dan Will
Dated this 23rci day of March, 2004.
80
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2004-10
LUSCAR LTD. HIGHVALE MINE - AND-
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595
RE: Union Leave Reimbursement
The Company agrees to pay for regularly scheduled time lost by employees delegated by the Union for the purpose of conducting Union business pursuant to Article 6, Marginal Paragraph 6.01.
Affected employees will fill out a Company time sheet for regularly scheduled lost time which the Company will pay at the employee’s standard rate of pay.
Monthly the Union will reimburse the Company an amount equal to the employee’s hourly rate that was paid out by the Company.
BETWEEN:
FOR THE COMPANY AI Brown
Michel Panet-Raymond Roger Twemlow
FOR THE UNION
Dale Friedel
Walter Case
Rick
Gary
Clint
Dan Will
Dated this 25^ day of March, 2004,
81