HIGHVALE MINE
- AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1595
Effective
APRIL 1, 1992 TO
MARCH 31, 1995
00202
(04)
	IABLE OF CONTENTS Page
ARTICLE	1 -SCOPE	2
ARTICLE	2 -RECOGNITION AND MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 	2
ARTICLE	3 -UNION SECURITY	3
ARTICLE	4 -CHECK-OFF 	4
ARTICLE	5 -SAFETY AND HEALTH	 5
ARTICLE	6 -LEAVE OF ABSENCE 	9
ARTICLE	7-GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 	 11
ARTICLE	8 -SENIORITY 	 17
ARTICLE	9 -REDUCTION IN STAFF 	 19
ARTICLE	10 -INCREASE IN STAFF 	 21
ARTICLE	11 -PROMOTIONS AND VACANCIES .... 22
ARTICLE	12 -DISCIPLINE 	 29
ARTICLE	13 -GENERAL HOLIDAYS	 30
ARTICLE	14 -ANNUAL VACATIONS 	 31
ARTICLE	15 -HOURS OF WORK 	 34
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued).	Page
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28 29
-OVERTIME.....................
-PAYMENT OF WAGES ............
-DIFFERENTIALS................
-GROUP INSURANCE .............
-SICK LEAVE ACCUMULATIVE ....
-MISCELLANEOUS ..............
-OCCUPATIONAL CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY.............
-STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS .......
-PENSION PLAN ...............
-REHABILITATION PLAN ........
-WORKING RESTRICTIONS........
-CONTRACTING OUT ............
-COOLING SYSTEM
-DURATION OF AGREEMENT
37
39
40 40 46 48
53
55
55
56
56
57
57
L53
/
LETTER Of. UNDERSTANDING & .AGREEMENT
Page
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #92-01 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #92-02 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #92-03 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #92-04 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #92-05 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #92-06 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #92-07 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #92-08 LETTER OF AGREEMENT #92-01A . . LETTER OF AGREEMENT #92-02A . . MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT . . .
GO
65
69
70
71
72
73
75
76
77
78
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into as cf the 7th day of December , 1992.
BETWEEN:
MANALTA COAL LTD., HIGHVALE MINE, IN THE PROVINCE OF ALBERTA (hereinafter referred to as the "Company"),
OF THE FIRST PART
AND -
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595, (hereinafter referred to as the "Union"),
OF THE SECOND PART
PREAMBLE,
The purpose of this Agreement shall be to establish, through negotiations, terms and conditions of employment relating to rates cf pay, hours ot work and other working conditions of employees, and to provide a method for negotiating settlement of disputes, complaints and grievances of employees, and to establish a harmonious relationship between the Company and the Union.
1
The Company and the Union agree that they will not discriminate against any employee due to race, color, creed, sex, age, nationality, political beliefs, marital status or Union membership.
ARTICLE 1 - SCOPE
This Agreement shall apply to all employees of Manalta Coal Ltd., excluding Engineers, Surveyors, Engineering Technicians, Office & Clerical Staff, Assistant Purchasing Agents, Purchasing Agents, Foremen, and those above the rank of Foreman.
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
ARTICLE 2 ■ RECOGNITION _______________________________
1) Union Recognition
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for the employees covered by this Agreement and hereby consents and agrees to negotiate with the	Union, or its	designated bargaining
representatives, in all matters relating to rates of pay, hours of work, working conditions, disputes, complaints, arid grievances of employees. The Company also agrees that the Union may have the assistance of a representative of the United Steelworkers of America in any or all negotiations or discussions between the parties to this Agreement.
2
2) Management Rights
The right to hire, retire, promote, demote, discharge or discipline for just cause, and to maintain discipline and efficiency of employees is the exclusive function of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement. All matters concerning the operation of the Company's business not specifically dealt with herein shall be reserved to the Company and be its exclusive responsibility.
Without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the Union further recognizes the jurisdiction of the Company over all operations, buildings, machinery, tools, and employees and the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
Every employee who is now or hereafter becomes a member of the Union shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment, and every new employee whose employment commences hereafter shall, within three (3) days after the commencement of his employment, apply for and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of his employment.
3
The services of an employee shall be immediately terminated upon the request of the Union, should such employee fail to apply for the Union membership as required above, and/or should he fail to maintain his membership in the Union in any manner and/or should he withdraw from the Union.
ARTICLE CHECK OFF
The Company agrees that upon written request by the Union, accompanied by signed authorization cards, all Union initiation fees, monthly dues, assessments or levies, shall be deducted for, and on behalf of all employees who are members of the Union, and such monies shall be made payable, for deposit only, in the Union Bank Account, and forwarded to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than the twentieth (20) day of each month accompanied by a list of names of all employees for, and on behalf of whom such deductions have been made. Monthly statements showing the names of all additions and deletions of staff shall be forwarded to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union.
In the event of a contractor or subcontractor being employed by the Company at the mine site or in the event of employees employed by contractors or sub-contractors being directly or indirectly paid by, or under the control and direction of the Company on the mine site in excess of twenty four (24) man
4
hours (excluding time spent on warranty work) in any calendar month, the Company will pay to the Union an amount equivalent to one (1) months union dues for each individual on the mine site in excess of twenty four (24) hours. A statement will be included with the remittance.
ARTICLED - SAFETY AND HEALTH
1.	The Company shall make provisions for the safety and health of the employees during working hours, and the Union, may from time to time, bring to the attention of the Company any recommended suggestions in this regard. Such recommendations shall be subject to negotiation between the Company and the Union.
2.	An employee shall not be allowed to work on a night shift unless accompanied by another employee. This clause shall not apply to Watchman-Janitor.
3.	An employee injured in an industrial accident shall be paid for the time lost on the day he was injured; at his regular daily earnings.
4.	The Company shall pay for medical fees incurred lor the purpose of receiving pre-employment medical examinations for all prospective new employees.
5
5.	A) Upon request, Employees shall be provided free of
charge approved high voltage gloves only for the purpose of handling live trailing power cables.
B) No employee shall be allowed to handle live high voltage power cable without high voltage gloves or a hot stick.
6.	A) The Company and the Union agree to establish a joint
Safety Committee consisting of three (3) representatives from the Company and three (3) representatives from the Union. The Committee shall function as outlined by the applicable government regulations as well as conduct monthly inspections.
B)	The Safety Committee members shall not suffer any loss of regular pay as a result of attending Safety and Health meetings. The Company shall provide one copy of the minutes of the monthly meetings to the mine office, one copy forwarded to the local Union, one copy to the appropriate government agency, and one copy posted on the safety bulletin board, within fourteen (14) days following the meeting.
C)	In the event of a serious accident or happening, a
6
Company Official and a Highvale Mine Employee, who is either a member of the Highvale Unit Executive Safety Committee or Shop Steward will investigate.
The investigating Union member shall not suffer any loss of regular pay as a result of investigating a serious accident or happening.
In the event it is necessary to call out a Union member for the above purpose the Company will not be responsible to pay such employee
7.	A) The Company agrees to provide free of charge to employees, articles of clothing which are found, through negotiations, to cause undue expense to the employees and/or which may be necessary for the safety and health of employees. This provision does not mean clothing usually required for the job. The results of such negotiations shall be put in writing.
The Company shall supply the following, free of charge:
Welder's Masks, Goggles & Gloves Leather Aprons and Leather Arms Rubber Boots and Rainsuits
The Company shall supply gloves at cost to all employees. Gloves will be supplied for specific working conditions at no cost to the employee.
B) The Company shall pay to each employee the sum of One Hundred ($100.00) Dollars each year towards the purchase of work clothing or C.S.A. approved safety boots. In the event an employee provides an appropriate receipt for the purchase of C.S.A. approved safety boots before November 30th of any calendar year, no income tax shall be deducted from such payment. Employees who provide receipts will receive their allowance with their regular pay for the next full pay period following the submission of the receipt. Employees who do not provide a receipt on or before November 30th of any year, will receive their allowance, less income tax, with their regular pay for the first full pay period in December.
B. A) Employees are required to take good care of any articles loaned to them by the Company, and such articles must be returned to the Company on termination of employment. Employees must acknowledge, in writing, receipt of: welding masks, goggles, gloves, leather aprons and arms; rubber
8
book: and good quality rain suits
B) Good quality rainsuits and rubber boots will be replaced on an exchange basis. Failure to return good quality rainsuits or rubber boots for exchange will result in a deduction from an employee's pay in accordance with the following:
Within 12 months cf issue - 50% cf original value After 12 months but before
36 months	- 25% of original value
After 36 months	- no deduction
9. Once every two (2) years, the Company shall make available to all employees at no cost to any employee, a chest x-ray and recognized hearing tests. A copy of the report shall be submitted to the employee. Employees will be paid at their regular rate of pay to a maximum of four (4) hours in the event the tests are carried out on their non-scheduled shift(s).
ARJLCLE 6 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
1.	The Company agrees that leave of absence without pay but with maintenance of seniority rights shall bo granted to
9
any designated employee for the conducting of Union business at large.
A)	For periods not in excess of two weeks at any one time, forty-eight (48) hours notice being required, provided however, time spent by the negotiating committee of the Union may, where necessary, exceed such two weeks.
B)	For an indefinite period, two (2) weeks written notice being required.
2.	The Company agrees that leave of absence without pay to a maximum of one (1) year but with maintenance of seniority rights, providing that seniority does not accumulate during the period of leave of absence for the purpose of this clause, shall be granted to employees for good and sufficient reason. Such request for a leave of absence will be in writing and the response will also be in writing and no such leave will affect any employee's seniority rights when used for tho purpose granted. Military Leave of less than two (2) weeks per calendar year shall not result in loss of seniority. If an employee works elsewhere while on leave of absence, he will lose all seniority unless he has written permission from the
10
Company to do so. Such leave shall bo granted without discrimination and in case of leaves for periods in excess of three (3) months, approval must be obtained from the Company and the Union.
3.	Special leave of absence with pay and with maintenance of seniority rights, shall be granted in cases of death in the employee's immediate family. Immediate family shall mean an employee's mother, father, brothers, sisters, spouse, children mother-in-law and father-in-law. Such leave shall riot exceed three (3) days.
Spouse shall include a common-law spouse who has cohabitated in a spousal relationship for a minimum of two (2) years. Children shall include the natural or adopted children of a qualified common-law spouse.
In the event of the death of brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, grandparents, or grandchildren, one (1) day of leave shall be granted with pay and maintenance of seniority to attend the funeral.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
1.	All grievances, except as provided foi elsewhere in this agreement, and those relating to an employee who has
11
acquired seniority and has been discharged, shall be dealt with by following Steps 1, 2, and 3 of this procedure. The grievance of a discharged employee as noted above shall be taken up at Step 3 within ten (10) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) after the day the employee has been terminated from the Company.
STEP 1 In the event of any grievance arising during the currency of this Agreement, the employee or employees concerned shall within ten (10) days after the employee knew or ought to have known of the matter giving rise to the grievance, refer the matter in writing signed by the employee or employees, as the case may be, to a Shop Steward who, if the grievance is considered a legitimate one, shall promptly take the matter up with the designated Forernan of the employee or employees. The designated Forernan shall discuss the grievance with the Shop Steward, (with the employee or employees present or absent at their option), and shall render a decision within three (3) of the grievor’s regularly scheduled working days, (holidays excluded), following notification of the grievance.
12
step 2 in the event that the designated Foreman does not give a decision satisfactory to tho Union, or does not render a decision within the period prescribed above, the Grievance Committee, may within four (4) days, (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excluded), refer the written grievance to the Supervisor. The Supervisor shall discuss the grievance with the Grievance Committee, (with the employee or employees concerned present or absent at their option), and shall render a decision within four (4) clays (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays being excluded), following notification of the grievance, provided however, that if circumstances warrant, this time prescribed may bo extended by mutual agreement.
STEP 3 In the event that the Supervisor does not give a decision satisfactory to the Union or does not render a decision within the time prescribed above, the Grievance Committee may within five (5) working days (excluding Saturdays,Sundays and holidays) refer the written grievance to the Mine Manager of the Company. The Mine Manager shall render his decision within five (5) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) of referral of the grievance, provided however, the time may be extended by mutual consent.
13
GRIEVANCE BOARD
STEP 4 In the event that any grievance or matter in dispute has not been settled through the procedure outlined above, either party may, within fourteen (14) days after the Mine Manager's decision in Step 3, submit the grievance or matter in dispute to an Arbitration Board as follows: The Arbitration Board shall consist of three (3) members; one (1) named by the Company and one (1) named by the Union. The two (2) members named shall meet and endeavour to agree on a third member who shall act as Chairman of the Board. Each of the parties to this Agreement shall have their respective Board Member selected and made known to each other within ten (10) days of notice being given by either party for the establishment of the Board. The two (2) members thus selected shall endeavour to agree on the selection of a Chairman within ten (10) days following their nomination as Board Members. In the event of their failure to agree on a Chairman within the time prescribed, they shall notify the Minister of Labour for the Province of Alberta who shall be asked to name a Chairman. After the Arbitration Board has been formed by the foregoing procedure, the three (3) members shall meet and hear the evidence of both parties and render a decision within seven (7) days
14
after fhe completion of taking evidence.
The decision of the majority of the Arbitration Board on the matter at issue shall be final and binding on both parties but the jurisdiction of the Arbitration Board shall be limited to deciding the matter at issue within the existing provisions of the Agreement, and in no event shall the Arbitration Board have the power to add to, subtract from, alter or amend this Agreement iri any respect.
The fees and expenses of the Chairman shall be shared equally between the parties. Each party shall pay its own costs and the fees and expenses of witnesses called by it, and of its representative.
2.	For the purpose of Clause 1 hereof, the person duly authorized to act for and on behalf of the officials mentioned herein, during their absence, shall similarly be authorized to act in respect to the procedure outlined herein.
3.	The Union shall promptly notify the Company of the personnel of its Grievance Committee and the Shop Stewards and of any change in personnel, and the
15
Company shall notify the Union of the names of the designated supervisory personnel with whom grievances shall be discussed as set forth in Clause 1 of this Article.
4.	In the discussions of grievances with representatives of the Company, the Grievance Committee may be accompanied by a representative of the United Steelworkers of America.
5.	As far as practicable, all grievances shall be dealt with during working hours, and no employee or members of the Grievance Committee or Shop Steward will suffer loss of pay by reason of time spent in discussing grievances with representatives of the Company.
In the event the Company requests the Shop Steward and/or Grievance Committee to meet outside regular working hours, to discuss a grievance he will be paid at his straight time regular rate for the time spent at the meeting. Such meetings shall only be in conjunction with regular working hours.
6.	The Grievance Committee shall consist of four (4) employees only. The Union Local President may also attend grievance meetings.
16
ARTICLE 8_- SENIORITY
1.	The seniority and service of an employee shall be plant-wide and shall be based upon continuous service with the Company and shall date from the time he last entered the service of the Company, subject to the following:
a)	An employee shall acquire seniority when tie has completed his probationary period of three hundred and sixty (360) regularly scheduled hours worked, and upon completion of this period, his seniority shall be retroactive to the date of his hiring.
b)	Continuous service of an employee shall be broken and seniority shall terminate by reason of any of the following:
i)	Dismissal for just and reasonable cause;
ii)	Voluntary resignation;
iii)	Failure to report for work within ten (10) working days after being notified to report following a layoff, unless the employee can give a reason satisfactory to the Company for his failure to
17
report within the time prescribed;
iv)	Withdrawal of any amount to which that employee is entitled under the Company Pension Plans:
v)	A continuous layoff which is equal to one-half (1/2) of the employee’s Seniority at the time of layoff, but in no event shall this period exceed two (2) years, i.e. one (1) year of service - six (6) months.
NOTE:	Should an employee break service or lose seniority for
any of the foregoing reasons and be subsequently rehired such employee shall commence employment as a new employee and shall not have any service or seniority from any previous employment with the Company.
c)	Subject to 8(b)(v) an employee’s seniority and service shall accumulate during a period of layoff due to lack of work.
2.	Employees shall not be laid off, recalled, promoted or demoted until the Union has been notified of the names of
18
the persons affected and the reasons for such action arid a consultation with the Union has taken place in respect to the matter.
In cases of terminations, the Union will be notified, as soon as possible, but not beyond the next working day, excluding Saturday, Sunday, and holidays.
3.	The Company agrees to prepare and post not later than January 31st and July 31st cf each year, or at such other time as rnay be mutually agreed upon, in places easily accessible to all employees, a list of the names of all employees, showing their job classifications, rates of pay and combined seniority standing, the latter being open to protest by employees for thirty (30) days from the date of such submission. Upon proof of error being established by a representative of the Union, correction shall immediately be made. The Company will supply the Union with a copy of seniority lists and corrections thereto, within two (2) working days excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
ARTICLE. 9 - REDUCTION IN STAFF
1.	When reducing staff, senior employees, ability being sufficient to pedorm the duties required for the position to
19
be filled, shall be retained. Reduction in staff due to emergency conditions arising in the plant for periods not in excess of two (2) days may be made without reference to seniority. However, every effort shall be made to provide work for such employees who would otherwise be laid off.
2.	The Company shall give employees written notice of permanent layoff of at least:
One (1) week after three (3) months;
Two (2) weeks after two (2) years;
Four (4) weeks after four (4) years;
Five (5) weeks after six (6) years;
Six (6) weeks after eight (8) years; or
Eight (8) weeks after ten (10) years.
Permanent layoff shall mean a planned layoff of sixty (60) or more calendar days duration.
3.	In the event of reduction of work in a classification, the employee affected shall displace any other employee in any pay classification provided the employee has more seniority than the employee displaced. The employee so displaced shall displace any other employee in any pay
20
classification provided such employee has more seniority than the employee displaced until the reduction has been completed. The employee displacing must have the ability to perform the work of the classification which such employee is going into and the two hundred and forty (240) hour trial period shall not apply when the anticipated time period for layofl is less than six (6) months. Should the employee be unsuccessful in completing the trial period, he will be assigned to the classification of labourer, but will not be restricted in bidding out of the labourer position by Article 11(6).
ARTICLE-10-- INCREASE IN STAFF
1. When increasing staff, consideration will be given wherever possible and practical, to local area people being employed. Employees laid off because of reduction in staff shall be returned to service first, ability being sufficient to perform the duties required for the position to be filled, in order of seniority. Notification of rehiring shall be by registered mail addressed to the last address which the employee shalt have recorded with the Company, and a copy of such notice shall be given to the "Recording Secretary" of the Union. Until such time as employees recalled to work actually report back to work, the Company shall be entitled to hire employees on a temporary basis.
21
2.	Temporary employees hired to replace an employee on a callback shall not be required to join the Union until after the ten (10) working days referred to in Article 8(1)(b)(iii).
ARTICLE 11 - PROMOTIONS AND VACANCIF.S
1. Notice of new positions or vacancies of a promotional nature coming within the scope of this Agreement shall be issued from the office of the Manager and shall be posted for four (4) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays in places accessible to all employees. A copy of said postings shall be supplied to the Union. All vacancies shall be posted not later than three (3) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, from the date that the Company became aware of the said vacancy. All postings shall set forth the exact title of the job and the rate, or range, of pay applicable. Interested employees shall obtain from the Company all required information regarding the posting.
Postings for new positions shall include a description of the position. For the purposes of job posting, a new position is one which has not existed prior to the time of posting and does not include replacement equipment.
22
In the event that a posted job bid has been cancelled for reasons other than an employee withdrawing his bid, tho Company will advise the Union, in writing, of the reasons for the cancellation.
2.	Employees shall be entitled to bid for such positions or vacancies by means of written applications in duplicate, one (1) copy of which shall be submitted to the office cf the Manager and the other to the Union. No application from employees received later than the posted closing date will be considered.
3.	A) New positions or vacancies shall be filled, ability being
sufficient to perform the duties required for the position to be filled, on a basis of seniority. The name of the successful applicant shall receive general posting within three (3) days following the closing date shown on the vacancy posting. The successful applicant shall immediately be placed in the position of the promotion or vacancy. In the event that the Company is unable to fill the vacancy from amongst the employees, posting of the name of the successful applicant may be delayed for a period of seventy-five (75) calendar days. The Union shall receive a copy cf all such postings.
23
B) When a vacancy occurs in a classification, the most senior employee (including the successful applicant), in the said classification shall have the first option on the vacant machine and/or position. The remaining vacancy shall be filled by the junior employee. Application to exercise this option must be made to the Mine Manager in writing within three (3) working days excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, from the date the successful applicant is identified.
4.	A) Employees accepting promotions to a new position or vacancy, may be required to take a trial period of two hundred and forty (240) hours working on the job to which they have been promoted, in cases of there being any question as to his ability, and during this period he shall be given training and the necessary instructions for the position concerned. If such employee feels he does not qualify within such time he may revert to his former position without loss of seniority; if before the expiry of such two hundred and forty (240) hours it appears that such employee is incapable of qualifying for such position the Company may, after consultation with the Union, require him to revert to his former position before such lime, without prejudice and without loss of seniority. Employees on
24
a trial period shall be paid at the rate received prior to
accepting promotion to a new position or vacancy. In the event of a dispute between the Company and the Union regarding an employee's ability to operate equipment, asuitable method, practical test, instrument or device shall be used to determine and record the operation and a tolerance of 10% against the most efficient operator of comparable equipment shall be allowed.
B) Employees who have previously worked two hundred and forty (240) hours within a four (4) month period, at a job classification other than their normal bid classification, shall not be required to take a two hundred and forty (240) hour trial period in the same job classification. It is the employee's responsibility to verify the periods cf time(s) previously worked in the classification in question.
5.	Employees who do not successfully complete the trial period will revert to their former position. Such employees will not be eligible to rebid for that position for a period of two (2) years unless otherwise mutually agreed by the Company and the Union.
25
6.	Unless otherwise agreed between the Company and the Union, employees may not bid out of a position for a period of three (3) months.
Certified tradesmen, who have been apprenticed toward their chosen trade, sponsored by the Company, may not bid out of a position for a minimum cf the same additional amount of time that the Tradesman has spent, sponsored by the Company in the Trades Apprenticeship Program.
7.	A) An employee required temporarily for a period of one
day or more to fill another position paying a higher rate of pay shall receive at least the minimum rate for such position but if required temporarily to fill a position paying a lower rate, shall continue to receive the rate payable for his regular position.
B) In the event an employee has to be transferred from his bid position, the Company will consult with the employee prior to such transfer taking place.
8.	The Company agrees to notify the Union and post in places accessible to all employees all positions outside the jurisdiction of this Agreement as such positions are created or become vacant and employees shall be given full
26
opportunity to make the proper application for such positions.
9.	The provisions of this Article shall apply to the filling of new classifications. Any new permanent classifications coining within the scope of this Agreement will be the subject of negotiations between the Company and the Union Executive. Failure of the parties to agree on any aspect of new or changed classifications will result in the matter being referred to the Grievance Procedure at Step 3.
10.	Employees who are promoted to permanent supervisory positions exempt from coverage under this Agreement shall accumulate seniority for the first ninety (90) days after they are promoted; provided that they continue to pay Union Dues; and shall retain their seniority for the next succeeding ninety (90) days from the date of their promotion, but shall lose all seniority one hundred and eighty (180) days from the date of such promotion.
In the event such employee(s) returns to the bargaining unit within the time prescribed, tie shall be entitled to use his seniority as stated above to bid on any job classification available.
27
Employees who are non-permanent relief foreman in excess of three hundred and sixty (360) hours in any calendar year shall not accumulate seniority thereafter while working outside of the bargaining unit in that calendar year.
11.	In the circumstances where an employee is absent on sick leave or Worker's Compensation, the Company agrees to hold open such employee's bid position for a period of twelve (12) months, and in the interim may bid that position on a temporary basis. Other vacancies arising out of the initial vacancy may also be bid on a temporary basis. In such situations the two hundred and forty (240) hour trial period shall apply with the exceptions of Shovel Operator, Dragline Operator, Coal Handling Plant Operator, Front-End Loader Operator and Drill Operator. The absent employee shall continue to accumulate seniority. Employees filling the temporary positions shall be confirmed in the positions after twelve (12) months. In the event the absent employee returns within twelve (12) months, affected employees holding the temporary bids shall be returned to their former positions.
28
ARTICL E 2 ^DISCIPLINE
11. The Company agrees to forward copies of all written warnings, notices of demotion, suspension or termination to the Union for their records. The Company agrees that written warnings will be removed from an employees employment record twelve (12) months after issue and will not be considered in any disciplinary actions thereafter.
2.	Upon request of the employee the Company shall allow a Union Steward to attend formal disciplinary meetings where formal written discipline is to be given to the employee provided that such request shall not unduly delay the imposition of discipline.
3.	Employees shall be disciplined within eight (8) of the employees working shifts from the later of the date of the incident or the date from which the Company was aware of the incident. This time may bo extended by agreement between the Company and the Union
4.	Upon request, an employee may review his personnel file in accordance with the following criteria:
the review must occur outside of the employee's working hours at a time mutually agreed to between
29
the employee and the Company;
- the review must occur in the presence of a representative of the Company; and
' a union representative may accompany the employee provided the review occurs outside the representative's working hours.
ARTICLE 13 - GENERAL HOLIDAYS
1.	The following days shall be observed as holidays without deduction of pay therefore New Year's Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Good Friday Victoria Day Thanksgiving Day
and any other day when nationally proclaimed and approved by the Provincial Government. In the event that a day in February IS nationally proclaimed and approved by the Provincial Government as a holiday, then that day shall automatically replace the second Monday in February agreed to as a holiday.
30
Remembrance Day 2nd Monday in Fob Canada Day Labour Day 1st Monday in Aug
2.	When any of the above mentioned holidays fall during the period of an employee's regularly assigned day or days of rest, the following regular working day shall be observed as the day of rest.
3.	All time worked on a holiday as specified in Clause 1 of this Article, shall be paid at two (2) times the employee’s regular rate of pay in addition to pay for the full holiday at the employee's regular rate of pay. If overtime is worked, the overtime provisions of Article 16 shall be invoked.
4.	Employees will not be entitled to General Holiday pay for any General Holidays which occur in their first thirty (30) days of employment.
ARTICLE 14 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
1.
All employees covered by this Agreement shall be entitled to vacation with pay based upon years of continuous service as computed on the employee's anniversary date of employment.
Such entitlement shall be as follows:
One (1) year Three (3) years Nine (9) years Nineteen (19) years
Ton (10) working days Fifteen (15) working days Twenty (20) working days Twenty five (25) working days
31
2.	Employees must accumulate one (1) year of service from the date they commence employment with the Company prior to becoming eligible to take vacation.
3.	Vacation pay shall be either two (2) weeks, three (3) weeks, four (4) weeks or five (5) weeks pay or 2/52, 3/52, 4/52 or 5/52 of the total earnings earned during the year the vacation was earned, whichever is the greater figure had he worked, as calculated on the employee's anniversary date.
4.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees who are or were absent from work due to a layoff shall be entitled to vacation and receive vacation pay on a pro-rata basis relating to time actually worked.
5.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees who are or were absent from work on WCB, STD/LTD for a period of one (1) year or more shall be entitled to vacation and receive vacation pay on a pro-rata basis relating to time actually worked.
Employees who are or were absent from work on WCB, STD/LTD for a period of less than one (1) year shall be entitled to vacation and vacation pay in accordance with
32
Article 14 (1) and 14 (3)
6.	Vacation pay to be paid to the employee prior to going on vacation.
7.	Seniority shall govern selection of vacation dates in case of disputes.
8.	For any General Holiday which occurs during the employee's vacation, the said vacation period shall be increased by one working clay for each General Holiday and the employee shall receive pay for the clay.
9.	Upon termination, an employee shall receive the unused portion of earned vacation in the form of vacation pay based upon his entitlement as provided for in this Article.
10.	Vacations are riot cumulative arid must be taken in the twelve (12) month period following eligibility.
11.	Vacations for eligible employees will bo granted as for as is practical, at times most desired by employees; provided however, the Company reserves the right of allotment of vacation periods in order to ensure orderly operation of the Mine.
33
12.	If it is consistent with production and with the consent of the Company, employees may take their annual vacation in one (1) period or in periods which are multiples of one (1) week or multiples of one (1) working cycle. A working cycle is defined as the period from the beginning of work on the employees first scheduled day of work until the commencement cf his regularly scheduled day of rest.
ARTICLE 15 - HOURS OF WORK
1.	A) Any employee changing a shift different from the one he or she is scheduled for shall receive twenty-four (24) hours notice. Where such notice is not given, the employee shall be paid double time for time worked on the first shift following the change. All succeeding shifts of the employee's new schedule shall be paid at the employee's regular rate.
B)	The normal work week shall be five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days or shifts or as mutually agreed to.
C) i) Employees shall be required to work their
regularly scheduled shift exclusive of lunch break which shall be of fifteen (15) minutes duration. Employees working in excess of their regularly scheduled shift including travel time from
34
washhouse to the worksite and return, but excluding time taken for lunch shall be paid at overtime rates. Time worked by each employee shall be recorded by means of a time clock located in the washhouse and time cards shall be punched by each employee at the scheduled starting and stopping time of each shift. All time cards must be validated by the supervisor. Subject to the exclusion of the fifteen (15) minute lunch break employees will only be paid on the basis of the time shown on their individual time clock cards.
ii) Ash Truck Operators at the Highvale Mine, Tradesmen, Apprentices, Field Maintenance Personnel, Shop Labourer, Tire Servicemen, Shop Servicemen, Warehousemen, and Janitors shall be required to work their regularly schedulecl shifts inclusive of lunch breaks which shall be of fifteen (15) minutes duration.
2.	A) For shift schedules that average forty (40) or forty-two (42) hours of work per week per employee, the Company arid Union shall mutually agree to such shift schedules that are in accordance with the Company's
35
operating requirements and associated required manpower levels, required hours of work per day and required hours of work per week in each area cf the operation. In order to arrive at such mutual agreement, the Company shall propose suitable shift schedules and the Union may either agree to the shift schedules or propose alternative schedules that meet the Company's requirements at no increased labour cost.
B)	Shift schedules other than those referred to in Article 15(2)(a) shall be by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
C)	Starting and stopping times shall be by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
D)	Such schedules shall be posted in conspicuous places and well in advance of their effective date.
3.	Coffee and lunch breaks during working hours shall be continued as presently practised.
4.	At spring change to daylight saving time employees will be paid for hours worked (eleven (11) on twelve (12) hour shifts). At fall change to standard time employees will be
36
paid for hours worked including any hours in excess of twelve (12) at double time.
ARTICLE 16 - OVERTIME
1.	Overtime will be voluntary subject to meeting the requirements of the operation.
2.	All hours worked in any one (1) day or any one (1) week, outside of the regularly assigned hours of work which from time to time are agreed upon by the Parties, shall be considered as overtime hours and, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be paid at double the employee's regular pay.
3.	Any employee who, because of an emergency, is called out for duty at any time after or before his regular work period, shall be free when the emergency is over but shall, nevertheless, be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the rate of time and one-half. Emergency work in excess of four (4) hours shall be paid at the rate of double time.
4.	Employees required to work on their regularly assigned days of rest shall be paid as follows:
a)	When employees are assigned two (2) consecutive
37
days of rest, double the regular rate of pay.
b)	When an assigned day of rest falls on a Sunday and when employees are required to work on such day of rest, they shall be paid at double the regular rate of pay.
5.	Any employee who normally is required to report for work and so reports but who, after reporting, is sent home, shall receive not less than four (4) hours pay at such employee's regular pay, excepting Acts of God or circumstances beyond the Company's control.
6.	Overtime shall be paid at double time
7.	All overtime shift work shall be paid shift differential pay.
8.	A system will be implemented to eliminate the problem of employee's not arriving back at the washhouses within normal hours of work. Additional manhaul vehicle(s) will be provided to insure the problem is eliminated.
Should employees not be returned to the washhouses in accordance with the above, then the following overtime
38
rates will apply:
1 to 7 minutes late = double time rates
8 to 23 minutes late = 15 minutes at double time
24 to 38 minutes late = 30 minutes at double time
38 minutes late or later = the above rates applied in a
logical progressive fashion (ie. 45 minutes at double time,
etc.)
ARTICLE 17 - PAYMENT OF WAGES
1.	All wages due to employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid them on every other Friday following the period for which their pay is due.
2.	On each payday, the Company shall provide to each employee, an itemized statement setting forth the total number of hours worked by the employee concerned during the immediately preceding pay period, the rate of wages applicable to him, all deductions made from his wages whatsoever, the purpose for which such deductions were made, the total amount actually paid to him and such other information as may from time to time be agreed upon by the Parties.
39
3.	The Union negotiation committee shall consist of a maximum of six (6) employees. Each committee member will be paid eight (8) hours per day for negotiations at their regular straight time rate. At no time will this be used for the purpose of calculating overtime.
ARTICLE 1B - DIFFERENTIALS
1. Employees shall be paid in addition to other wages payable to them, a differential for all hours worked on shifts commencing between the hours of 2:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m. in the amounts of:
Afternoon shift -	$.50/per hour
Midnight shift -	$.85/per hour
ARTICLE 19 ■ GROUP INSURANCE
1. Life Insurance
a)	The Company shall provide a policy of insurance foi an amount of $50,000 Life Insurance and $50,000 Accidental Death and Dismemberment, a copy of which shall be supplied to the Union
b)	Coverage shall commence on the first (1st) of the month coinciding with or next following two (2) months of continuous employment.
40
2. Dental Plan
a)	The Parties hereby agree to maintain the group dental plan for all employees covered by tho scope of this Agreement. The coverage, at the current rates as set by the Alberta Dental Association shall he as follows:
A - Basic and Routine - 100%
B - Major and Restorative - 80%
C - Orthodontics - 50%
Maximums: A& Bcombined -$1,500/person/year;
C - $1,500/person/lifetime.
The premium costs of the dental plan shall be borne in its entirety by the Company.
b)	Coverage shall commence on the first (1st) of the month coinciding with or next following two (2) months of continuous employment.
3.	Health Care
The Company will pay the entire cost of the appropriate Alberta Health Care Insurance premiums for all employees, excluding employee arrears.
4.	Long Term Disability
a) The Company will provide a Long Term Disability 41
Plan; effective January 1, 1981. The cost of the Long Term Disability Plan will be borne in its entirety by the Company. The Plan shall include the following conditions:
j) Effective after 17 weeks disability; iij Benefits equal to 60% of salary; iii) Maximum benefits will be 60% of the weighted average for the bargaining unit. The weighted average calculation will not include employees hired as Labourers or Watchmen/Janitors after September 21, 1987.
b)	Coverage shall commence on the first (1st) of the month coinciding with or next following two (2) months of continuous employment.
c)	If any employee on Long Term Disability is unable to perform the duties of his regular job classification the Company shall appoint such employee to do alternate work to be paid at the rate for such work.
No employee will be appointed to do alternate work under this clause unless the Company determines that the completion of the alternate work is necessary
42
arid the employee has received clearance to perform the alternate work by a medical practitioner selected jointly by the Company and the Union.
Evidence of the medical practitioner’s clearance to return to work shall be provided to the Highvale Unit Executive.
Employees who refuse such alternate work shall be terminated, unless the Union and the Company mutually agree to lesser discipline.
5.	Short Term Disability
a) The Company will provide a Short Term Disability Plan to become effective January 1, 1981. The cost cf the Short Term Disability Plan will be borne in its entirety by the Company. The Plan shall include the following conditions:
j) Benefits commence the 1st day of the accident and/or hospitalization; arid the 6th day of illness:
ji) Benefits continue for 17 weeks duration;
iii) Benefits will be for 66 2/3 % of salary;
jv) Until April 1, 1993, maximum benefits will be
43
66	2/3% of weighted average for the
bargaining unit. The weighted average calculation will not include employees hired as Labourers or Watchmen/Janitors after September 21, 1987.
v) Effective April 1, 1993, benefits will be equal to 66 2/3% of salary.
b) Coverage shall commence on the first (1st) of the month coinciding with or next following two (2) months of continuous employment.
6.	Major Medical
a) The Company will provide a major medical plan for all employees and dependents. The cost of this plan shall be borne in its entirety by the Company. The plan shall include the following conditions:
i)	Semi-private hospital coverage;
ii)	The payment for ambulance services;
ill) Pre-paid prescription drug plan with a co-insurance of 90% towards the cost of prescriptions, and an annual deductible of $15.00 for either single or family coverage;
iv) All other coverage as provided for in Plan booklet.
44
b) Coverage shall commence on the first (1st) cf the month coinciding with 01 next following two (2) months of continuous employment.
7.	Optical
a)	The Company shall provide an optical plan to provide a maximum of One Hundred & twenty five ($125.00) Dollars in each twenty four (24) month period, commencing April 1, 1992, for an employee or employee's spouse and each dependent child toward the purchase of prescription glasses or corrective lenses purchased in that period. The cost shall be verified by an appropriate receipt. For the purpose of this clause, a twenty four (24) month period will be that period from April 1st in one (1) year to March 31st two (2) years thereafter.
b)	Coverage shall commence on the first (1st) of the month coinciding with or next following two (2) months of continuous employment.
8.	A copy of all insurance plans and policies covering employees within the bargaining unit will be supplied to the Union by the Company.
45
ARTICLE 20 - SICK LEAVE ACCUMULATIVE
1.	Each employee shall maintain accumulated sick leave credits up to a maximum cf one (1) year or two hundred and sixty (260) days.
As of January 1, 1981 and each succeeding year, each employee will be credited with five (5) sick leave days.
For new employees such credits will be granted from the date of commencement of employment but no employee shall be entitled to sick leave pay until he has completed three (3) months of continuous employment. Unused sick leave credits earned since January 1, 1981 will not be carried into the years following the year which they are earned.
The employee will have the option of using his credited sick leave days and/or the Short Term Disability Plan and Long Term Disability Plan.
2.	Every employee who may be absent from duty on account of sickness shall notify his immediate supervisor and no employee shall be entitled to benefits for time previous to such notification, unless the delay shall be shown to have been unavoidable.
46
	If an employee does not report one half (1/2) hour prior to the commencement of the shift that he will not be in to work due to illness or a non-occupational injury, tho employee will forfeit two (2) hours of eligible sick leave pay.
3.	Before payment is made under sick leave benefits, tho Company may require a medical certificate or a written statement from the employee and in cases of lengthy illness, the Company shall call for physician's reports from time to time as it deems necessary.
4.	The Company reserves the right to call for an examination at any time by a physician designated by the Company if such procedure is deemed advisable.
5.	For the purpose of this Article, sickness shall include injury other than accidental injury arising out of and in the course of employment by the Company. It is understood that this Article does not apply when an employee is employed by an employer other than the Company oi on Workers Compensation.
6.	The Company agrees to prepare and post in January, April, July and October of each year, in places accessible
	47
to all employees, a statement listing the names of all employees indicating the amounts of sick leave credits used by each for the preceding three (3) month period. Such statement shall be open to protest for a period of thirty (30) days and on presentation by a member of the Union of proof of error, a correction shall be made immediately. Such corrections shall be shown on a supplementary statement. In addition to the foregoing, the Company agrees to supply the Union, in January of each year, with a statement of the unexpended sick leave credits as of December 31st, in respect of all employees.
ARTICLE 21 - MISCELLANEOUS
1.	Where circumstances warrant and as mutually agreed upon, a five-minute washup period shall be granted for employees before the end of each shift.
2.	There shall be a maximum of eight (8) Shop Stewards at the Highvale Mine covered under the scope of this Agreement.
3.	The Company shall pay an employee who is required for jury service, the difference between his pay for his regular shifts normally worked and the daily jury fee received. In the event an employee is subpoenaed to appear in court
48
as a witness in a matter in which he has no direct interest, he shall be offered alternative shifts at his regular pay to make up for money lost.
4.	Employees who are involved in occurrences in which Company property is damaged and who fail to report each such occurrence to their supervisor within eight (8) hours of such occurrence are subject to immediate discipline.
5.	The Company agrees:
a)	To pay to pupils attending Trade School, an amount of money that together with the amount or amounts of money paid to the pupil by any outside agency, will constitute 100% of the pupil's normal salary;
b)	Apprentice selections will be based on the Seniority, Provincial Pre-Apprentice Test results arid related experience of candidates bidding for posted apprenticeships. Selection criteria will be weighted as follows:
i)	Seniority 35%
ii)	Test Results 30%
iii)	Related Experience 35%*
49
•Related experience will be determined by a joint committee consisting of three (3) members appointed by the Union and three (3) members appointed by the Company;
c)	In the event that an apprentice fails the tests at the end of his period of training in the Vocational School, the apprentice will be given an opportunity to rewrite his/her examination or take a leave of absence without pay or any other company paid allowances to re-attend that period of training. In the event he/she selects the leave of absence his seniority will be maintained.
d)	Apprentice tradesmen, who maintain a permanent residence in excess of eighty (80) kilometres from tho institution they attend will be paid a maximum of Three Hundred and Fifty ($350.00) Dollars per month for the additional room and board costs incurred while attending school.
e)	The Company agrees to provide Technical School Training to Mine Electricians toward Mine Electricians achieving "Journeyman" status. This program shall be initiated immediately.
50
f)	Apprentice Blaster
Employees will be selected as pet Article 11 and must be prepared to have the necessary qualifications as set out in the applicable Government Legislation.
Each such employee shall be required to sit for examination each year and in the event of failure to pass such examination, the Company shall have the right to remove such apprentice from this classification.
g)	Employees who take upgrading courses specifically approved by the Company shall have their tuition paid upon successful completion of the course.
6.	Personal tools required by an employee on the job will be replaced by the Company with same brand or equivalent if they have been lost or damaged on the job site.
Each employee who is required lo supply tools shall prepare an inventory of his tools and this inventory shall be verified and co-signed by a management representative at the time of hire. Signed copies of the inventory shall be retained by the Company and the employee. Any
51
employee purchasing new tools shall report such additions to his Foreman and they shall each initial amendments to the inventory and copies of such amendments shall be retained by the Company and the employee.
7.	The Company shall make available a deep freeze stocked with “T.V." type dinners as well as a microwave oven in which the dinners can be heated in order to provide a hot meal to any employee working more than two (2) consecutive hours on overtime or two consecutive hours on call out duty.
8.	In addition to the requirements of Article 11.4, employees bidding an operators position on walking type draglines must have four (4) months experience as an oiler or an operator on a walking or crawler type shovel or dragline.
The requirements would be the same for employees bidding on the position of Coal Handling Plant Operator; they too would require four (4) months oiling or operating within the Coal Handling Plant area.
During this period, oilers of both classifications, will be given the opportunity to become familiar with all phases of the specific classifications operation and general
52
maintenance, including spending some time actually
operating as an operator trainee
9.	The Company shall provide and boar the cost of a sufficient supply of new collective agreements, in book form, to the Union.
10.	Where the masculine pronoun is used in this agreement, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun, unless the context clearly provides otherwise
ARTICLE 22 - OCCUPATIONAL CLASSIFICATIONS AND
RATES OF PAY
CLASSIFICATION
RATE	RATE
EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE APRIL _1/92 APRIL 1/93
Certified Blaster
Certified Welder
Certified Mechanic Certified Electrician Certified Millwright Certified Machinist Certified Carpenter Shovel Operator
Dragline Operator Crane Operator
Coal Handling Plant Operator
Ash Plant Operator Tire Serviceman
53
CLASSIFICATION
Trac-Truck Serviceman Crawler Tractor Operator Front-End Loader Operator Power Scraper Operator Backhoe Operator Shovel & Dragline Oiler Trac-Truck Driver (15 tons & over)
Coal Handling Plant Oiler
Road Maintenance Operator
Drill Operator
Trademan’s Helper
Pit Pumpman
Trac-Truck Driver
(under 15 tons)
Warehouseman
Shipper/Receiver
Labourer
Watchman - Janitor Labourer
(hired after Sept. 21/87 Watchman -Janitor (hired after Sept. 21/87)
RATE	RATE
EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1/92 APRIL 1/93
$21.07	$21.44
21.07	21.44
21.07	21.44
21.07	21.44
21.07	21.44
20.78	21.14
20.78	21.14
20.78	21.14
20.78	21.14
20.78	21.14
20.62	20.98
20.62	20.98
20.62	20.98
18.51	18.83
18.51	18.83
17.73	18.04
17.73	18.04
13.77	14.01
13.77	14.01
TRADESMEN APPRENTICE
First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year
60% of Certified rate 70% of Certified rate 80% of Certified rate 90% of Certified rate
NOTE:	Three year apprentice trades eliminate the second
year level.
54
a)	Al! retroactive pay will be paid from and including April 1, 1992, to only those employees who are on tho payroll at the time of ratification,
b)	Labourers who are successful in obtaining other permanent bid positions who are subsequently bumped back to their labourer category shall be paid without reference to their date of hire.
ARTICLE 23 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
The Union agrees there shall be no strikes and the Company
agrees there shall be no lockouts during the term of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE 24 - PENSION PLAN
1.	It is understood and agreed that the terms and conditions of the document entitled “Pension Plan for Hourly Employees of Manalta Coal Ltd." as established January 1, 1975 and as amended are accepted
2.	New Employees will be required to join the Pension Plan upon completion of thirty (30) calendar days of employment with the Company.
55
3.	The Union shall receive a copy of the Pension Plan and copies of all amendments, proposed changes and actuarial studies relating to the Pension Plan that are produced during the term of this Collective Agreement.
4.	The Company agrees to meet on a joint basis with all unions representing employees who are plan members once but in no event more than twice in any one calendar year to review the annual actuarial valuation of the Pension Plan for Hourly Employees of Manalta Coal Ltd. and to discuss other matters if any, related solely to the Pension Plan and its administration.
These meetings may be attended by a maximum of two (2) union representatives from the minesite who may be accompanied by a representative from their National union.
The parties agree to establish, during the term of this Agreement, an Alcohol and Drug Rehabilitation Program. The program shall be administered on a joint basis and the procedures of the program shall be mutually agreed upon.
ARTICLE 2fi - WORKING RESTRICTIONS
The Company and the Union agree that a foreman shall not
56
perform tho work that is usually performed by Union members, except in emergencies arising out of an act of nature, or sickness provided every reasonable effort has been made to obtain an employee for the work in question.
ABJICLE 2X- CONTRACTING OUT
The Company and the Union Executive shall meet monthly to discuss and review the use of contractors
No member of the Highvale Unit Executive shrill suffer a loss in earnings as a result cf said meetings.
This meeting shall be held in conjunction with the regular monthly Union/Management meetings.
ARTICLJI 28 - PQQUNG SYSTEMS
The Company agrees to install an air conditioning system in the lunchrooms at the Highvale Mine.
Circulating fans will be installed in the cab of all equipment
57
ARTICLE 29 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
1.	This Agreement shall be effective as of the 1st day of April, 1992 and shall remain in force and effect uptoand including the 31st day of March, 1995, (unless the parties fail to negotiate a wage schedule in accordance with paragraph 2 below, in which case the agreement shall remain in force and effect up to and including the 31st day of March 1994), and from year to year thereafter, providing that either party may, not less than sixty (60) days nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary date hereof, give notice in writing to the other party of their intention to negotiate a revision thereof. Should such notice be given, the Collective Agreement shall continue in force and effect until a new Collective Agreement has been executed or until such time as the Union has gone on legal strike or the Company has instituted a legal lockout.
2.	The parties further agree they shall meet to review and negotiate wage schedules to be effective the 1st day of April, 1994. This review shall take place between February 1, 1994, and March 31, 1994. Should the parties be unable to successfully negotiate the wage schedule within the time limits described above, or such longer period as may be
58
agreed upon by the parties in writing, then the date of March 31, 1995, as contained in Article 29 (I) shall be amended to March 31, 1994.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties hereto have caused these presents to be executed the day and year first above written.
MANALTA COAL LTD. Highvale Mine
Suzanne Simmons
Bill Dzus
Wayne _Anderson DavidJHonsberger _
Paul Scott___________
Garry_Djrk
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA Local 1595
Hick Saunders
Mervin Sciljey
Rocky Rice
Walter Case
Bernie. Welke
59
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 92-01
BETWEEN:
MANALTA COAL LTD., HIGHVALE MINE - AND -
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1595
RE: Compressed Work Week
Twejve (121 Hour Shift Schedule
For purposes of the 12 hour shift schedule:
A)	A tour will be the number of scheduled consecutive working days without a scheduled day off;
B)	A work week will be defined as that period of time commencing at 7:00 a.m. Sunday and terminating 168 hours thereafter on the succeeding Sunday;
C)	Unless otherwise scheduled by the Company, day shift will be 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and night shift will be 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
D)	Shift differential will be paid in the amount of $0.90 per hour for night shifts. No shift differential will be paid for day shift.
E)	This shift schedule repeats itself after eight weeks.
1. a) The agreed upon compressed work week schedule averages 42 hours of work per week over an eight week cycle. The scheduled overtime will be prevented by scheduling time off in lieu.
.12
60
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 92-01	PAGE2
b)	Employees must complete a minimum of four tours as defined in this letter of agreement, before time off in lieu will be granted.
c)	Overtime will not be paid if incurred as a result of discontinuing the 12 hour shift schedule.
d)	Mutual trades o1 shifts or days off must be in writing, signed by both parties and approved by the Mine Manager or his designate, 48 hours before proposed, to ensure coverage.
2. a) Forthe purposes of the 12 hour shift schedule, a General Holiday will begin at 7:00 a.m. on the day of the General Holiday and end at 7:00 a m. on the day following the General Holiday with the exception of Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and New Years Day which will be observed from 7:00 p.m. of the day preceding the General Holiday until 7:00 p.m. on the day of the General Holiday.
b)	The days listed as per Article 13-1 shall be observed as holidays with twelve (12) hours pay per employee normally scheduled to work, and eight (8) hours pay per employee not normally scheduled to work.
c)	When any of the above mentioned holidays fall during the period of an employee's regularly assigned day or days of rest, there will be no additional time off granted, nor will overtime he incurred.
d)	All time worked on a General Holiday will be paid as per Article 13-3 of the Collective Agreement. A General Holiday will be observed as defined in clause 2(a) arid 2(b) of this letter of agreement.
...13
61
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 92-01
PAGE 3
3,	a) Vacations will be granted in accordance with Article 14 of the Collective Agreement as it relates to qualifying for vacation and vacation pay. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 14 of this Collective. Agreement, actual vacation pay and time off will be determined as follows:
Nineteen (19) Years 200 Hours
b)	For any General Holiday which occurs during the employee's vacation, the said vacation period shall be increased by eight (E) hours for each General Holiday and the employee shall receive eight (8) hours pay.
c)	Vacations will be granted on the basis of twelve (12) hour days. Employees with less than one (1) year of completed service will be subject to Article 14-2 of the Collective Agreement.
d)	Days of vacation will be based on hours of entitlement rounded to the nearest twelve (12) hours. This will include General Holiday entitlement where applicable.
4.	Special leaves of absence as stated in Article 6-3 of the present Collective Agreement shall also convert to hours. This shall be interpreted as a maximum of twenty four (24) hours leave with pay in the case of death in the employee's immediate family and in the event of other staled members, eight (8) hours of leave with pay shall be granted.
One (1) Year Three (3) Years Nine (9) Years
.14
62
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 92-01	PAGE 4
5.	a) Group insurance policies will be maintained as per Article
19 of the Collective Agreement, based on an eight (8) hour day, forty (40) hour work week.
b)	The five (5) days sick leave, as stated in Articlo 20-1 of the Collective Agreement, will convert to forty (40) hours sick leave entitlement.
c)	Sick leave credits accumulated before January 1, 1981 will also be expressed in hours for each individual, with one day entitlement being eight (8) hours.
6.	Normal coffee breaks and lunch periods of the twelve (12) hour shift schedule will be as follows:
DAY SHIFT 10 minute break at 9:00 a m 15 minute break at 11:00 a.m 10 minute break at 1:00 p.m. 15 minute break at 3:00 p.m. 10 minute break at 5:00 p.m.
NIGHT SHIFT 10 minute break at 9:00 p.m.
15 minute break at 11:00 p.m 10 minute break at 1:00 a.m. 15 minute break at 3:00 a.m. 10 minute break at 5:00 a.m.
7.	With reference to the warehouse personnel, there will be otic (1) person designated to provide coverage for the following:
a)	normal lieu days, as required, for those employees following the compressed work week schedule.
b)	annual vacation, as required, for those omployees following the compressed work week schedule.
,../5
63
■LETTER^OF UNDERSTANDING 92-01
PAGE 5
c)	sick time, as required, for those employees following the compressed work week schedule.
The person designated to provide this coverage work on an eight (8) hour shift, forty (40) hour work week basis will be given time off in lieu for the hours of coverage provided.
For those warehouse employees following the compressed work week schedule, any lieu day which is normally scheduled on Sunday will be re-scheduled to that Monday.
Due to the nature of the job performed, the flexibility which presently exists, with regards to coffee and lunch breaks, will remain.
It is expressly understood that this letter of agreement applies to the HIGHVALE MINE only and remains in effect for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
SIGNED this 7th day of December 1992.
MANALTA COAL LTD.	UNITED STEELWORKERS
Highvale Mine	OF AMERICA Local 1595
Suzanne Simmons ________ Rick_Sauriders
Bill Dzus________
Wayne Anderson
David tlorisberger
Paul Scott____
Mervin Sciliey Rocky Rice Walter Case Be_mie__Welke
64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 92-02
BETWEEN:
MANALTA COAL LTD., HIGHVALE MINE -AND -
UNITED STEELWORKERS CF AMERICA LOCAL 1595
RE: Compressed Work Week
Ten (10) Hour Shift Schedule
For purposes of the 10 hour shift schedule:
Unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union, the regular hours of work will be 7:00 a.in. to 5:00 p.m.
1.	Mutual trades of shifts or days off must be in writing, signed by both parties and approved by the Mine Manager or his designate, 48 hours before proposed, to ensure coverage.
2.	A) The days listed as per Article 13-1 shall be observed as holidays with eight (8) hours cf pay per employee.
B)	Article 13-2 of the Collective Agreement shall apply
C)	All time worked on a General Holiday will be paid as per Article 13-3 of the Collective Agreement.
72
65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING-92-02	PAGE 2
3.	A) Vacations will be granted in accordance with Article 14 of the Collective Agreement as it relates to qualifying for vacation and vacation pay. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 14 of this Collective Agreement, actual pay and time off will be determined as follows:
One (1) Year Three (3) Years Nine (9) Years Nineteen (19) Years
80 hours pay 120 hours pay 160 hours pay 200 hours pay
B) For any General Holiday which occurs during the employee's vacation, the said vacation period shall be increased by eight (8) hours for each General Holiday and the employee shall receive eight (8) hours pay.
C) Vacations will be granted on the basis of ten (10) hour days. Employee's with less than one (1) year of completed service will be subject to Article 14-2 of the Collective Agreement.
D)	Days of vacation will be based on hours of entitlement rounded to the nearest ten (10) hours. This will include General Holiday entitlement where applicable.
4.	Special leaves of absence as stated in Article 6-3 of the present Collective Agreement shall also convert to hours. This shall be interpreted as a maximum of twenty four (24) hours leave with pay in the case of death in the employee's immediate family and in the event of other stated members, eight (8) hours of leave with pay shall be granted.
./3
66
LETTER. OF UNDERSTANDING 92-02
PAGE 3
5.	A) Group insurance policies will bo maintained as per Article 19 of the Collective Agreement, based on an eight (8) hour day, forty (40) hour week.
B) The five (5) days sick leave, as stated in Article 20- i of the Collective Agreement, will convert to forty (40) hours sick leave entitlement.
C) Sick leave credits accumulated before January 1, 1981 will also be expressed in hours for cacti individual, with one (1) clay entitlement being eight (8) hours.
6.	Normal coffee breaks and lunch periods of the ten (10) hour shift schedule will be as follows:
10 minute break at 9:00 a.m 15 minute break at 11:00 am 10 minute break at 1:00 p.m. 15 minute break at 3:00 p.m.
./4
67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 92-02
PAGE 4
1 is expressly understood that this letter cf agreement applies to the HIGHVALE MINE only and remains in effect for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
SIGNED this____7th . day of ____December_____, 1992.
MANALTA COAL LTD. Highvale Mine
Suzanne Simmons
Bill Dzus__________
Wayne Anderson________
David Honsberaer
Paul Scott______
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA Local 1595
Rick Saunders_
Rocky Rice__
Walter Case Bernie Welke _
68
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 92-03
BETWEEN:
MANALTA COAL LTD., HIGHVALE MINE - AND -
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1595
RE: Lead Hand
The Company may designate employees as lead hands and they will receive One Dollar ($1.00) per hour more than his regular rate. A lead hand acts as a leader of a group or groups of employees working on similar or related work. He assigns work to the men as directed by the Supervisor arid works along with and coordinates work among them. The lead hand functions as a work leader and not as a Supervisor. He is responsible for the correct completion of work but not for disciplinary action or other personnel matters which arc the responsibility of the Supervisor to whom the lead hand reports. The lead hand function is not considered to be a permanent position. The lead hand will revert back to his former position immediately after termination of his lead hand position. Lead hands will not be used to replace Foremen or Relief Foremen.
SIGNED this 7th _ day of _ _December , 1992.
MANALTA COAL LTD Highvale Mine
Suzanne Simmons
Bjll Dzus
Wayne Anderson _	_
David Honsberger_ _
Paul_Scoti_ _ _______
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA Local 1595
Rick Saunders
Mervin Scilley
Rocky Rice
Waller Case
Bernie Welke
69
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 92-04
BETWEEN:
MANALTA COAL LTD., HIGHVALE MINE - AND -
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1595
RE: Bulletin Board
The Company agrees to provide the Union with a bulletin board in the locker rooms for the sole purpose of posting Union notices and official papers pertaining to Union affairs
Such bulletin board shall not measure smaller than four (4) feet square Notices will be posted only by Officers of the Union and will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of this agreement
SIGNED this 7th
MANALTA COAL LTD. Highuale Mine
Suzanne Simmons
Bill Dzus___________
Wavne Anderson______
David Honsberaer
Paul Scott _________
day of _ DecembeL , 1992
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA Local 1595
Rick-Saunders Morvin Scillov Rocky Rice Walter Case Bernie Welke
70
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 92-05
BETWEEN
MANALTA COAL LTD., HIGHVALE MINE - AND -
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1595
The Union hereby agrees that the study session of March 19, 1981, shall not be used in an attempt to establish any precedent to the interpretation of Article 6(1)(a) of the Collective Agreement.
The Company and Union agree to meet to resolve matters in contention to prevent any work stoppage.
The Union executive will make every attempt to prevent any work stoppage in the future.
SIGNED this _ 7th _ day of December________________,1992.
MANALTA COAL LTD. Hlghvale Mine
Suzanne Simmons
Bill Dzus
Wayne Andersoji
Dayid_Honsberger_____
Ftaul Scott. __ _ _
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA Local 1595
Rick Saunders.
Mervjn Scilley
Rocky-Rice	_
Walter.Case Eernie Welke
71
LETTEH OF UNDERSTANDING 92-06
BETWEEN:
MANALTA COAL LTD., HIGHVALE MINE - AND -
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595
RE: Variation in General Holiday Observance
It is understood between the Parties that the Company will advise the Union prior to the end of February of each year of the dates scheduled for the staff socials.
The Union shall have the right to alter the observance of a General Holiday to one of the above mentioned dates. The Union shall notify the Company within thirty (30) days of receipt of advice as to the date selected and the General Holiday to be altered.
SIGNED this___7th _ day of _December _, 1992.
MANALTA COAL LTD.	UNITED STEELWORKERS
Highvale Mine	OF AMERICA Local 1595
Suzanne Simmons
Rick Saunders
Bill Dzus _________
Wayne Anderson David Honsberger Paul Scott_________
Mstvm_Sc.illey_
Rocky Rice____
Walter Case Bernie Welke
72
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 92-07
BETWEEN:
Nl AN ALTA COAL LTD., HIGHVALE MINE (the Company)
- AND -
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595 (the Union)
HE: Students
Post-secondary students may be hired for the period of May 1st through September 7th at the entry level labourer's rate. In the case of high school students hired for the period cf May 1st through September 7th, they will be paid at the rate of $9.00 per hour.
Students will not qualify for any benefits, allowances or income replacement plans (including sick days and sick clay buy-out) under the terms of the Collective Agreement, but will be eligible for statutory holiday pay and shift differentials as set out in the Collective Agreement. Students shall trave all rights as specified in the Collective Agreement dealing with tho grievance procedure.
Students working on in scope duties, with the exception of Labourer, Water Truck Operator, End Dump Operator or Warehouse will be paid at tire appropriate rates of pay for that classification under the Collective Agreement
■12
73
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 92-07
PAGE 2
The Union waives initiation fees for students hired May 1st through September 7th at the Highvale Mine. Regular union dues will be deducted from post-secondary students and deducted from high school students at the rate of 60% of regular dues. Any employee on layoff with recall rights will be returned to work prior to the hiring of summer students.
SIGNED this 7th day of December — , 1992.
MANALTA COAL LTD.	UNITED STEELWORKERS
HIGHVALE MINE	OF AMERICA LOCAL 1595
Suzanne Simmons_________ Rick Saunders
Bill Dzus________________ MamrLScilley_
Wavne Anderson__________Rocky Rice
navid Hnncherger________ Walter Case
Paul Scott______________Bernie-WeLke
74
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 92-08
BETWEEN:
MANALTA COAL LTD., HIGHVALE MINE (the Company)
- AND -
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595 (the Union)
RE: Rate Overrides
The parties agree to continue the following practice:
When a Heavy Duty Mechanic Apprentice is replacing a Trac-Truck Serviceman, he may elect to receive a rate over-ride for the period of time spent working as a Serviceinan. However, if the employee elects to receive the rate over-ride, such period of time will riot count towards his apprenticeship hours. No rate over-ride shall be given when an Apprentice is replacing a Tradesman's Helper.
SIGNED this _ 7th __ day of .December ,1992.
MANALTA COAL LTD HIGHVALE MINE
Suzanne Simmons
Bill Dzus _ _ _	__.
Wayne .Anderson____
DavidJHonsberger _ .
Paul Scott _
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1595
Rick Saunders
Mervin_Sciljcy_
Bocky Rice
Walt_er_Casc
Bernie Welke
75
LETTER OF AGREEMENT 92-01A
BETWEEN:
MANALTA COAL LTD., HIGHVALE MINE - AND -
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1595 RE: Union/Manaaement Meetings
The Company and the Union agree to meet on a monthly basis during the term of the current Collective Agreement in order to discuss issues relating to labour relations and technological change, based on the following conditions:
-	There shall be a maximum of three (3) members appointed on behalf of the Company and three (3) members appointed on behalf of the Union.
-	All meetings are to be held on site.
-	The members appointed by both parties shall decide how the meetings are to be structured and the date the meetings are to occur.
-	The members appointed by the Union shall not suffer a loss in regular earnings as a result cf said meetings.
SIGNED this
7th
day of __December
1992.
MANALTA COAL LTD. HIGHVALE MINE
Suzanne Simmons
Bill Dzus___________
Wavne Anderson David Honsheraer Paul Scott_______
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1595
Rick Saunders ___________ _
Mervin Scillev __ __________
Rocky Rice______ ___________
Walter Case ________________
Bernie Welke________________
76
LETTER OF AGREEMENT 92-02A
BETWEEN:
MANALTA COAL LTD., HIGHVALE MINE (the Company)
- AND •
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 1595 (the Union)
RE: Sick Pay Payout
Those employees who have not utilized their yearly sick pay entitlement from the prior calendar year shall be paid Fifty (50%) percent of their unused entitleinerit in the first pay period of January of each year. For the purpose of determining whether sick time has been utilized, absence due to illness or injury other than an accidental injury arising out of and in the course of employment by the company shall be deemed sickness. However, employees who have accumulated sick time prior to 1981 may utilize such time without impacting upon their entitlement lothe Fifty (50%) percent payment until such banked sick time is exhausted.
SIGNED this __7t_h _ day of _ Decernber_ _, 1992. FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Suzanne Simmons „	. Rick Saunders
Bjll_Dzus __ _	_______ Mervin Scijley
Waynejknderson _ _______Rocky Rice .
David Honsberger. _. __ Waiter _Case _ Paul _Scott	__ . Bernie Welke
77
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN:
MANALTA COAL LTD., HIGHVALE MINE (the Company)
- AND -
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1595 (the Union)
The parties to this memorandum have reached agreement upon the terms and conditions which will constitute a new Collective Agreement between the parties, subject to ratification of the memorandum by the Union membership on or before November 6, 1992. The term of the agreement will be as specified in the attached document, including Letters of Understanding.
This memorandum is reached with the understanding that the Union Negotiating Committee, individually and as a whole, will recommend acceptance to their membership of the terms and conditions attached hereto.
Upon acceptance by a majority of the bargaining unit employees who vote on the proposed settlement, the terms and conditions attached hereto will become binding and final on both parties. Signed the 29th day of October , 1992.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Suzanne Simmons	Bernie Wefke___
Bill Dzus_______________Rick Saunders
Wayne Anderson David Hnnshnrgor Eaul Scott_____
Mervin Scillev Walter Case
Rocky_Rice____
78