1998-2000
AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN
POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN
INC.,
CORY DIVISION
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, CLC LOCAL 7458
SASKATOON - SASKATCHEWAN
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 15,1998
00229 (06)
ARTICLE DESCRIPTION
1
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
2
2.01
2.02-	2.03
2.04-	2.07 2.08-2.09 2.10
3
3.01-	3.03
3.04
3.05
3.06-3.08
4
4.01
4.02
4.03-	4.10 4.11
4.12-4.13
4.14
4.15
5
5.01-	5.03 5.04
5.05-	5.09 5.10-5.14 5.15-5.17
5.18
5.19
5.20
PAGE
Agreement................................................... 3
Date............................................
Definitions.....................................
Efficient Operations..................................... 3
Purpose ........................................
No Discrimination........................................ 4
Bargaining Agent................
Union Recognition............
Union Officers and Committees
Union Dues...................
Union Security...............
Union Discipline.............
Management Rights and Responsibilities ....................... 6
Management Rights.......................................... 6
Supervisors and Salaried Employees....................... 6-7
Contracting Out..................................
Tools............................................
Safety and Health...........................
General..................................
Safety Rules.............................
Occupational Health and Safety Committee
Safety Equipment and Clothing............
Industrial Accidents.....................
Medical Examinations.....................
Underground Diesel Equipment.............
Employee Privileges.........................
Personal Leave of Absence................
Union Business Leave of Absence..........
Educational Leave of Absence.............
Public or Union Office Leave of Absence...
Jury Duty or Subpoenaed Witness Leave of Absence
Funeral Leave of Absence........................
Pallbearer Leave of Absence.....................
Bereavement Leave of Absence....................
12
12
12-13
13
14
15 15-16
16 16
8
8
8
9-10
10-11
11
11
12
4
4
5
5-6
5.21
5.22
5.23
5.24
Disability Leave of Absence............
Special Leave of Absence...............
Employment While on Leave of Absence Notice re Leave of Absence.............
16-17
17
17
17
6	Annual Vacations and Public Holidays
6.01-6.02	Annual Vacations................
6.03	Vacation Pay....................
6.04	Vacation Bonus..................
6.05(a)	Vacation Scheduling.............
6.05(b)	Cumulative Vacation.............
6.05(c)	Vacation Shutdown...............
6.06	Disability During Vacation......
6.07	Public Holidays.................
6.08-6.10	Public Holiday Pay..............
6.11	Work on Public Holiday..........
18
18-	19
19
19-	20
20 20
20-	21 21
21-22
22
22-23
Employment Provisions..............
7.01	Probationary Period...............
7.02	New Employee Orientation..........
7.03-7.07	WorkDay...........................
7.08-7.09	Work Week.........................
7.10-7.13	Job Classifications...............
7.14	Temporary Employees...............
7.15-7-20	Notice ofAction and Discipline.
7.21	Service Record....................
7.22	Monthly List of Changes...........
23
23
23
23-	24
24-	25
25
26 26-27
27
28
8	Wage Provisions.......
8.01	Wage Scale............
8.02-8.03	Shift Premium.........
8.04	Sunday Premium........
8.05	Underground Premium
8.06-8.07	Reporting for Work.....
8.08-8.10	Work Schedule.........
8.11-8.14	Callout...............
8.15-8.20	Overtime..............
8.21-8.24	Overtime Meals........
8.25-8.27	Transportation........
28
28
28
29
29
29
29-	30
30-	31
31-	32 33
33-34
8.28-8.29
8.30-8.33
9
9.01-	9.02
9.03-	9.07 9.08
9.09-9.11
10
10.01-	10.03
10.04-	10.05
10.06-	10.07
10.08-	10.09 10.10 10.11
10.12-10.22
10.23-10.25
10.26
10.27-10.28
11
11.01-	11.02
11.03-	1104
11.05-	11.06
11.07-	11.08 11.09
11.10-11.12
11.13
11.14
12
12.01
12.02-12.03
12.04-	12.08
12.09-	12-14
12.15
12.16-12.17
Wages According to Job....................... 34
Absences..................................... 34-35
Seniority.................................................... 35
General................................................... 35
Establishment of Seniority............................. 35-36
Departments............................................... 36
Seniority Lists........................................ 36-37
Vacancies.............................
General............................
Training...........................
Filling Temporary Vacancies........
Filling Permanent Vacancies........
Refusal of Promotion...............
Day Assignment.....................
Job Posting........................
Qualifying on the Job..............
Transfers Out of the Department....
Transfers Out of the Bargaining Unit
37
37
37-	38
38
38-	39
39 39
39-	42 42-43
43
43
layoff and Reduction and Restoration of
the Workforce.....................
Notice of Layoff..................
Reduction ofWorkforce.............
Recall of the Workforce...........
Physical Examination..............
Layoff Due to Technological Change....
Emergency Shutdown................
Basis ofRecall....................
Maintenance of Rate...............
43
43-	44
44-	45 46
46
46-	47
47
47-	48
48
Grievance Procedure.....
Purpose ............
Grievance ..........
Union Representation Grievance Procedure..
Time Periods........
Group Grievances.....
49
49
49
49-	50
50-	51
51
52
12.18-12.26	Arbitration	Procedure..
12.27	Arbitration	Cost.......
12.28	Witnesses...............
12.29-12.33	Discharge and Suspension
52-	53 53 53
53-	54
13	General Provisions..........................
13.01	Law and Government Regulations..............
13.02	Rights of Parties to Agreement..............
13.03	Agreement Revisions.........................
13.04	Affirmative Action..........................
13.05-13.06 Copies of Agreement...............................
13.07	Bulletin Boards.............................
13.08-13.11	Access to Property by Union Representatives
13.12-13.15	Handicapped Employees.......................
54
54
54-	55
55 55 55 55
55-	56
56-	57
14
14.01
14.02
14.03
14.04
Term of Agreement.......................
Effective Date........................
Notice to Terminate or Revise Agreement.
Negotiating Committee.................
Entire Agreement......................
57
57
57
58
15.01	C.W.S................................................ 58
15.02-15.03 C.W.S. Committee......................................... 58-59
EXHIBIT 1 Wage Scales.......................................... 59-60
Footnotes.................................... 60-61
EXHIBIT 2	Lines of Progression - Mine Operating Dept........... 61
Footnotes ................ ...................... 62-63
EXHIBIT 3	Lines of Progression - Mine Maintenance.............. 64
Footnotes ................ ...................... 65-66
EXHIBIT 4 Lines of Progression - Mill................................ 66
Footnotes........................................ 66-67
EXHIBIT 5 Lines of Progression - Plant Maintenance................... 68
Footnotes........................................ 69-71
EXHIBIT 6 Lines of Progression - Loadout Footnotes ......................................
71
72
EXHIBIT 7 Warehouse Lines of Progression .
Footnotes....................
EXHIBIT 7 Laboratory Lines of Progression .
Footnotes....................
EXHIBIT 8 Apprenticeship Program.........
EXHIBIT 9	Summary of Cory Hourly Benefit Plans.
GENERAL Misc. Items......................
LETTERSOF AGREEMENT......................
72
72-	73
73 73
73-	75 75-83 84-87 88-98
NOTE:	For the purpose of this Agreement, any references to
employees as “he” or “his”, etc. shall mean all employees, male or female, in the Bargaining Unit.
ARTICLE 1 - AGREEMENT
DATE
1.01	This Agreement is made and entered into this 15th day of January, 1998 to April 30, 2000.
DEFINITIONS
1.02	In this Agreement the following definitions apply:
“Company” - the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc., Cory Division, its potash mine and refinery located approximately five miles west of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.
“Union” - United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC itself and on behalf of Local 7458 thereof.
“Employee” - an employee of the Company in a position not excepted in Article 2 of this Agreement and therefore, a member of Local 7458 of the United Steelworkers of America and covered by this Agreement.
“Staff employee” or “other employee” - any other person employed by the Company who is not covered by the above definitions of “employee”.
EFFICIENT OPERATIONS
1.03	The Company and the Union recognize the need to carry on the operations of the Cory mine and plant with the greatest possible efficiency and expediency.
PURPOSE
1.04	This Agreement is entered into with the intention of establishing mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and the Union; to set forth rates of pay, hours of work and the terms and conditions of employment; to protect the safety and health of employees; and to provide for the adjustment of disputes which may arise between the parties.
3
NO DISCRIMINATION
1.05	This Agreement shall apply alike to all employees. The Company and Union agree that there shall be no discrimination against any employee.
1.06	The use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered to include the feminine gender.
ARTICLE 2 ■ BARGAINING AGENT
UNION RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive agent for the purpose of bargaining collectively with regard to rates of pay, hours of work, and other working conditions for all employees except those in the following categories: Supervisors, Foremen, Superintendents, Managers, Office Staff, Plant Security, and a person having and regularly exercising authority to employ or discharge employees or regularly acting on behalf of management in a confidential capacity.
UNION OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES
2.02	The Union agrees to certify promptly, in writing, to the Company a list of the names and official positions of its duly authorized local officers and representatives and the members of committees as may be elected to deal with the Company and to give the Company prompt, written notice of any change or addition which may thereafter be made in such list.
2.03	The Company will recognize a certified alternate member for each of the various Union Committees who may be called upon to serve on the Committee in the absence of a regular member. In the case of the Grievance Committee, a certified alternate from Underground and a certified alternate from Surface will be recognized.
4
UNION DUES
2.04	The Company agrees that upon the request in writing of any employee and upon the request of the Union, the Company shall deduct out of the wages due to such employee in the last full pay period in each month the constitutional Union dues of such employee.
2.05	The Company shall pay in periodic payments on or before the tenth day of the next month the said Union dues and any initiation dues to the Union at the Local Union’s office. The cheque for the Union dues will be made payable to the International Treasurer of the Union.
2.06	The monthly dues to be deducted are to be the amount equal to 1.3% of said member’s total earnings during the month, provided that monthly dues shall not be less than $5.00 and provided further that monthly dues shall not be more than 2.5 times the member’s average hourly earnings.
2.07	The Company shall furnish to the Union names of the employees for whom the Union dues payment is being made each month.
UNION SECURITY
2.08	Every employee who is now or hereafter becomes a member of the Union shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment.
2.09	When a new employee is hired by the Company, he will be required to sign a “Check-Off Authorization” and membership form as supplied by the Union, for the deduction of Union dues and initiation fee. This form will be dated and become effective within thirty days after the commencement of his employment.
UNION DISCIPUINE
2.10	If the Union suspends an employee from membership in the Union, the Company agrees it will not discharge or discipline an employee for being absent from
work because of such suspension, providing the Union informs the Company in writing of any such suspension and the Union and the Company mutually agree upon the actual dates that the suspension will be effective.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects except as expressly modified or restricted by this Agreement and to make and alter from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by employees, provided however, that any dispute as to the reasonableness of such rules and regulations or any dispute involving claims of discrimination, inequity, or unfairness against any employee in the application of such rules and regulations shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure of this Agreement.
3.02	The Company shall have the right to hire; to discipline, demote and discharge employees for just and sufficient cause; and to direct the workforce, provided however, that any exercise of these rights in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure.
3.03	The Company shall not exercise its right to direct the workforce in a discriminatory, inequitable or unfair manner.
SUPERVISORS AND SALARIED EMPLOYEES
3.04	Supervisors and other salaried employees shall serve in these capacities and they shall not be allowed to work on operations performed by employees coming under the scope of this Agreement, except to assist in emergency situations; a necessary demonstration of operations; studying or testing equipment; or putting
6
new equipment into operation. The Company shall actively discourage Supervisors from performing work assigned to employees covered by this Agreement except as provided above.
CONTRACTING OUT
3.05	The Company shall have the right to contract out work so long as such contracting out does not result in the displacement of an employee from his job because the work he was formerly doing is being contracted out. The Union will be informed prior to commencement of the work of major contracts awarded, the nature and duration of the work.
TOOLS
3.06	The Company will issue to employees at no cost all tools required in the opinion of the Company for the performance of work by the employees. Each employee upon being issued tools shall acknowledge receipt of such tools by signing for them. Tools worn out or defective will be maintained or replaced by the Company.
3.07	Tools lost in line of duty or stolen as determined by the Supervisor will be replaced by the Company. Repeated claims by any one employee for replacement of tools will be deemed evidence of negligence and, in such cases, no-cost replacement may be denied.
3.08	The cost of any of the tools not returned in good condition, normal wear excepted, upon the request of the Company, or upon termination of employment shall be withheld from any wages due and payable to the employee. Any tools not returned shall be paid for by the employee at their reasonable depreciated value. Depreciation shall be equal to forty percent the first year and ten percent the second year, but in no event shall a tool have a depreciated value of less than fifty percent of its replacement value.
ARTICLE 4 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
GENERAL
4.01(a) The Company and the Union recognize the importance of establishing safety rules and regulations for the protection of employees and in order to prevent industrial injury or illness agree to cooperate in the continuing objective of eliminating safety and health hazards.
4.01(b) Employees have the right to refuse to do any particular act or series of acts where they have reasonable grounds for believing it could be unusually dangerous, until steps have been taken to satisfy them otherwise, or until the OH&S Committee or an Occupational Health Officer has ruled on the matter. The Company may assign alternate work to the employees until the matter is resolved. Employees should consult their Safety Rule Book for detailed provisions outlining the right to refuse unsafe work.
SAFETY RULES
4.02	The Company will publish a booklet containing safety rules and regulations for employees. Any safety rules put into effect after the booklet has been prepared will be posted in proper places for the information of employees. Prior to the publication of any new booklet containing safety rules and regulations, the Company shall submit such publication to the Safety Committee for its review. Within fifteen days from the receipt of the proposed publication, the Safety Committee shall return the booklet to the Company along with any recommendations for improvement. In the event the Committee believes any safety rule or regulation is in conflict with the Agreement, the matter shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure and such grievance may be submitted at the third step of the Grievance Procedure.
8
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE
4.03(a) An Occupational Health and Safety Committee will be established consisting of four Local 7458 members, two from Underground and two from Surface; and up to four Company selected members.
(b)	The Committee will be divided into two Sub-Committees, an Underground Sub-Committee and a Surface Sub-Committee. Each Sub-Committee will act in its respective area and will have a “Union” Co-Chairman and a Company Co-Chairman.
The “Union” will have two Underground members from Local 7458 on the Underground Sub-Committee, and two Surface members from Local 7458 on the Surface Sub-Committee.
(c)	The Occupational Health and Safety Committee meetings, at the wish of the Co-Chairmen, may be held with the total Committee or with each Sub-Committee. The “Union” and the Company will each designate one Co-Chairman when meeting as a total Committee.
4.04	Union members of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall accompany a Senior member of management on a regularly scheduled inspection of their respective working areas at least once per month. Committeemen from Underground will inspect the Underground area and Committeemen from Surface will inspect the Surface area. Once every six months the Union Co-Chairman may request in advance that one Committee member from each area change for a regular scheduled inspection of the other’s area.
4.05	The appropriate Sub-Committee Co-Chairman of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall accompany their respective Committee on tours and shall also accompany the Occupational Health and Safety Officer from the Department of Human Resources.
9
4.06	The Union Co-Chairman may invite a representative of the International Union to accompany the Safety Committee in its monthly inspections.
4.07	Members of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall make recommendations to improve safety in the areas inspected and shall receive a written report from the Safety and Loss Control Coordinator of action taken on the recommendations prior to the next safety inspection.
4.08	Members of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee will not lose pay for time spent during regularly scheduled inspection tours. They will be paid their base rate for all regular hours scheduled to a maximum of eight ten or twelve hours per day depending on their weekly work schedule for their scheduled work time missed while attending Occupational Health and Safety training courses authorized by the Company. If the Union Occupational Health and Safety Committeeman is on his regular scheduled time off he will be paid his base rate for the time actually spent on the regularly scheduled monthly inspection tours and such time spent shall be included as time worked for the purposes of computing any overtime pay.
4.09	In the case of a serious condition likely to cause injury or a serious accident involving injury, the Union Co-Chairman will be notified as soon as is possible and will be permitted to inspect the area involved.
4.10	Crew safety meetings will be held monthly and minutes will be distributed to the Occupational Health and Safety Committee Co-Chairmen and to the members from the area (Surface and Underground) involved.
SAFETY EQUIPMENT AND CLOTHING
4.11(a) The Company shall furnish, at no cost to the employee, safety equipment and protective clothing, except safety boots, as required in the opinion of the Company for the performance of work by the employee.
10
(b) Two pairs of work gloves will be issued to employees in July, November and March of each year at no cost to the employee and employees are expected to have work gloves on the job and use them as required. A new employee will be issued one pair of work gloves at no charge at the time of hiring.
(C) Each employee with one or more years of service as of January 1st of each year will receive a safety clothing allowance of one hundred and fifty dollars with his first pay cheque from the Company in that year. Employees are expected to have safety boots in good condition on the job.
INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS
4.12	The Company shall replace an employee’s clothing irreparably damaged as a result of an industrial accident requiring medical attention.
4.13	The Company shall continue its policy of paying an employee for his full work shift if the employee sustains a compensable industrial accident and is unable to complete the balance of his shift.
MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS
4.14	Employees who undergo medical examinations required by the Company during their regular working hours, by reason of the fact that the examination cannot be scheduled by the Company outside their regular working hours, will not lose pay for the time spent obtaining the examination up to a maximum of eight hours at straight time rate. If the employee’s medical is scheduled and taken on his regular scheduled day off, he will receive four hours pay at his base rate. In the event that the medical examinations are conducted at the minesite, they will be done during an employee’s regularly scheduled work time with no loss in pay to the employee.
11
UNDERGROUND DIESEL EQUIPMENT
4.15	Prior to the acquisition of additional diesel equipment for Underground, the Company will review and explain the need for such additional equipment to the Occupational Health and Safety Committee. It is the Company’s intention in conjunction with the Occupational Health and Safety Committee to monitor and reduce where practical, the diesel emissions from Underground equipment.
ARTICLE 5 ■ EMPLOYEE PRIVILEGES
PERSONAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
5.01	An employee shall be allowed a Personal Leave of Absence without pay for up to twenty-eight days, providing, if possible, he requests it in writing at least ten days prior to the leave; he has good and sufficient reason; and the leave will not interfere unduly with operations. An extension of up to fourteen days may be granted at the discretion of the Department Head, if requested prior to the expiration of the twenty-eight day leave. The written request is to be sent to the Personnel Office who will answer it within two working days.
5.02	A Personal Leave of Absence without pay of one or two days will be granted without written request provided it is requested in advance and complies with the other provisions of Article 5.01.
5.03	In the case of an emergency in the employee’s personal affairs or family, a reasonable Leave of Absence without pay will be granted upon request.
UNION BUSINESS LEAVE OF ABSENCE
5.04	A Union Business Leave of Absence without pay shall be granted to not more than eight employees, but not more than two from any one department at any one time, to attend to Union Business, providing such Leave of
12
Absence does not interfere unduly with operations. The Leave of Absence must be requested in advance and may not exceed fourteen days. A minimum of one week’s notice is required for leaves requested for Union Conventions, Union Conferences or for two employees from the same department. Other Union Business leaves require at least forty-eight hours notice.
EDUCATIONAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
5.05	When an employee wishes to further the possibility of advancement with the Company by taking a fulltime course of training, the Company will, subject to the requirements and efficiency of the operations, grant him an Educational Leave of Absence without pay provided that:
-	The employee requests the leave in writing at least thirty days in advance.
-	The employee has at least two years of seniority.
-	The leave is not for a period in excess of ten months.
5.06	The number of employees granted Educational Leaves of Absence from any department at any one time may be restricted by the Company so as not to interfere unduly with the operations of that department.
5.07	If an employee fails to maintain regular attendance at the course of training for reasons other than proven illness his leave will be cancelled and his employment may be terminated by the Company.
5.08	The period of leave shall be included in determining the employee’s seniority. Such employee shall return to his previous job on completion of the leave provided he is entitled to such job by his seniority.
5.09	As a condition of this Leave of Absence the Company may require the employee to have a medical examination before and after the leave of absence.
13
PUBLIC OR UNION OFFICE LEAVE OF ABSENCE
5.10	An employee who is appointed or elected to an office or position in the City of Saskatoon, Province of Saskatchewan or Dominion of Canada Governments or the Union, if such office or position interferes with his work for the Company, shall be granted a Public or Union Office Leave of Absence for the necessary period within the life of this Agreement.
5.11	An employee who is nominated for office in the City of Saskatoon, Province of Saskatchewan or Dominion of Canada Governments, or the International Union, shall be granted upon request, a Leave of Absence without pay for a maximum period of 60 days in order to campaign for election.
5.12	The rights and privileges available to employees on Public or Union Office leave shall be the right to benefits as per Exhibit 9, the right to grieve, the right to be reinstated in his former job or like status, seniority and pay provided the employment conditions have not so changed as to make this unreasonable or impossible. An employee on Union Office Leave of Absence shall accumulate seniority during the first year of such leave. An employee on Public Office Leave of Absence shall accumulate seniority during the entire period of the Leave.
5.13	As a condition of the Public or Union Office Leave of Absence, the employee shall be examined by the Company physician to determine his physical condition. A written report of the examination shall be prepared by the physician.
5.14	Upon expiration of his term of office, the employee shall be re-examined by the Company physician and shall report for work within fifteen days of the expiration of his term of office if he is in substantially the same physical condition as when he left,
14
JURY DUTY OR SUBPOENAED WITNESS
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
5.15	An employee, other than one in his probationary period or a temporary employee, who is prevented from working any of his scheduled hours of work by virtue of having been called to jury duty by the Crown or having been subpoenaed as a witness in a Court of Law in a case other than his own, shall receive the difference between the jury or witness fee received by him and the straight time rate of his classification, excluding shift premiums, for the hours missed, not to exceed the number of regularly scheduled hours for each shift missed as indicated on their weekly work schedule.
5.16	The employee shall notify the Company at least twenty-four hours in advance of the day that he is to report for jury or witness duty and shah provide proof of such service.
5.17	When an employee is excused from jury or witness duty on a scheduled work day he shall report for work on his regular shift unless a conflict between jury or witness duty and scheduled working time prevents his reporting for work.
FUNERAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
5.18	An employee who is absent from work because of his attendance at the funeral of a member of his “immediate family” shall receive Funeral Leave of Absence benefits subject to the following conditions:
a)	The benefits due such employee shall be computed on the basis of the number of regularly scheduled hours (8,10 or 12 hours) per day at straight time base rate for his job classification as shown on the Company’s records, excluding premium pay.
b)	Funeral Leave benefits shall be paid for up to 3 days (8,10 or 12 hours) within the five-calendar-day period immediately following the death of a member of the employee’s “immediate family”. The first day of the five day
15
period shall, at the employee’s election, commence either on the day the death occurred or on the following day.
c)	Immediate family is defined as: the spouse or the mother, father, brother, sister, son, daughter, grandchildren, or grandparents of the employee or his spouse. Brother-in-law and Sister-in-law are also considered as immediate family.
d)	Common law status will be recognized only if the employee has advised the Company prior to the death, of the common law status.
PALLBEARER LEAVE OF ABSENCE
5.19	In the event an employee is required to be a pallbearer at the funeral of another Company employee, the Company will grant the necessary time off and he will not lose pay for the regular scheduled time missed to a maximum of one full shift (8,10 or 12 hours).
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE OF ABSENCE
5.20	In the event that an employee is unable to attend an out-of-Saskatchewan funeral of the employee’s immediate family, he will be granted one full shift (8,10 or 12 hours) Bereavement Leave of Absence on the day of the funeral if he is scheduled to work and will be paid his base rate for that day.
DISABILITY LEAVE OF ABSENCE
5.21	An employee who cannot or should not work because of his illness or injury, may, or if requested by the Company shall, remain absent from work and shall be granted a disability leave for the duration of such disability provided that there is medical evidence to support such leave.
a)	As a condition of disability leave being granted, notice of the reason for the absence must be given to the Company as soon as possible.
b)	As a condition of granting or continuing a disability leave, the Company may require a physical-
16
mental examination by a fully licensed and practising physician.
c)	If a disability is found to be permanent, the leave will continue as specified in the Benefits Agreement.
SPECIAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
5.22	It is recognized that circumstances not covered in the foregoing Articles’ may warrant a Special Leave of Absence without pay for an employee. Upon the Union’s request for such a leave for an employee, the Company will meet with Union representatives to discuss the situation and the circumstances and conditions in regards to duration, benefit coverage, seniority, return, et cetera under which a Special Leave might be granted to the employee. An arbitrator dealing with a grievance involving discharge or loss of seniority of an employee under this clause shall have the power to reinstate the employee with full seniority rights or direct any other arrangement which he deems just. In making his decision, the arbitrator shall consider the reason for the request for leave, the duration of the absence, and length of service and work record of the employee.
EMPLOYMENT WHILE ON LEAVE OF ABSENCE
5.23	Acceptance of employment elsewhere for pay or profit while on Leave of Absence may constitute a resignation by the employee unless the Leave of Absence was granted with the specific understanding and permission of the Company that other employment was to be undertaken.
NOTICE RE LEAVE OF ABSENCE
5.24	The Company will provide prompt response to a request for a Leave of Absence. The Personnel Office will ensure this requirement is met, providing adequate notice is received.
17
ARTICLE 6 - ANNUAL VACATIONS AND PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
ANNUAL VACATIONS
6.01	The length of vacations for employees will be based on full years of continuous service in each calendar year that the vacation year begins, as follows:
a)	Less than one year at July 1
-	twelve hours for each completed month of service up to a maximum of 120 working hours.
b)	One or more years at July 1, but less than six years as in (c)
-	one hundred and twenty (120) working hours
c)	Six, but less than seven years, at the employee’s anniversary date in the calendar year that the vacation period begins
-	one hundred and twenty-eight (128) working hours
d)	Seven, but less than eight years, at the employee’s anniversary date in the calendar year that the vacation period begins
-	one hundred and thirty-six (136) working hours
e)	Eight, but less than nine years, at the employee’s anniversary date in the calendar year that the vacation period begins
-	one hundred and forty-four (144) working hours
f)	Nine, but less than ten years, at the employee’s anniversary date in the calendar year that the vacation period begins
-	one hundred and fifty-two (152) working hours
g)	Ten or more years at the employee’s anniversary date in the calendar year that the vacation period begins
-	one hundred and sixty (160) working hours
h)	Fifteen or more years at the employee’s anniversary date in the calendar year that the vacation period begins
-	two hundred (200) working hours
18
6.02	If a Public Holiday as designated in this Article occurs during an employee’s Annual Vacation, he shall receive an additional day and shall be paid for the Public Holiday. For employees scheduled to work a 10 hour day or 12 hour day schedule the amount of Public Holiday pay will be at his base rate of pay and the number of hours paid will be based on the number of regular scheduled hours the individual would have worked whether it be 8, 10 or 12 hours had the day not been a Public Holiday.
VACATION PAY
6.03	Vacation pay will be calculated as a percent of the employee’s gross earnings from June 1 of the preceding year through May 31 of the current year.
The percentages applicable to the vacation pay calculation corresponding to service as per Article 6.01, are as follows:
a)	6.0% for less than one year’s service.
b)	6.0% for one through five years’ service.
c)	6.4% for six but less than seven years’ service.
d)	6.8% for seven but less than eight years’ service.
e)	7.2% for eight but less than nine years’ service.
f)	7.6% for nine but less than ten years’ service.
g)	8.0% for ten or more years’ service.
h)	10.0% for fifteen or more years’ service. Employees who were absent and on Workers’
Compensation or Disability Insurance, for more than thirty (30) consecutive days, will have their gross earnings adjusted for vacation pay calculations when they have returned and actually take their vacation. The adjustment will be based on the number of weeks lost (maximum 52) during such absence and the base rate which would have been applicable during such absence.
VACATION BONUS
6.04	Employees who have completed five or more full years but less than ten years of continuous service on their
19
anniversary date in any year shall receive an Annual Vacation Bonus of $50.00. Employees who have completed ten or more full years of continuous service on their anniversary date in any year will receive an Annual Vacation Bonus of $100.00. The Annual Vacation Bonus will be paid in total along with the first vacation payment made.
VACATION SCHEDULING
6.05(a) The annual vacation period begins July 1 each year and vacations earned as in Article 6.01 must be taken before June 30 of the following year. The requirements of efficient operations shall be of paramount importance in scheduling vacations. General Seniority within the Department will be given every possible consideration for vacation requests received prior to May 1. It is understood that the requirements of a vacation maintenance shutdown may take precedence over vacation requests. In a year that a vacation shutdown is being held as in 6.05(c), employees who prefer not to take their vacation during the shutdown will be considered for available work providing they notify their Department Head in writing before May 1.
CUMULATIVE VACATION
6.05(b) By mutual written agreement between an employee and the Company, vacations may be carried forward and accumulated in the next vacation year. The Union shall be furnished a copy of such agreement when made. Current year vacation will take precedence over prior years carry forward and accumulated vacations, regardless of seniority.
VACATION SHUTDOWN
6.05(c) A vacation shutdown can be designated by the Company provided it falls during the school summer vacation period, and the Union will be notified of the
20
Company’s intention regarding such vacation shutdown not later than April 1 of that year. The Company will endeavour to inform employees of the date of the shutdown as soon as reasonably established.
DISABILITY DURING VACATION
6.06	In the event an employee becomes disabled for 24 consecutive hours or more during the term of his vacation, verified by a doctor’s certificate, the employee shall be entitled to reschedule that unused portion of his vacation at a mutually agreed upon time.
PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
6.07(a) The following shall be Public Holidays:
New Year’s Day Heritage Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Saskatchewan Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
(b)	When New Year’s Day falls on a Sunday, straight day shift employees scheduled Monday through Friday, will observe New Year’s Day on the Monday following. This will apply for Monday through Friday employees only.
(c)	When Christmas Day falls on a Sunday, straight day shift employees scheduled Monday through Friday, will observe Christmas Day on the Monday following and Boxing Day on the Tuesday following. This will apply for Monday through Friday employees only. When Christmas Day and New Year’s Day fall on a Saturday, straight dayshift employees scheduled to work Monday through Friday will
21
observe these statutory holidays on the Friday of that week. Boxing Day will be observed on the following Monday.
(d)	For employees working a twelve hour day work schedule, Public Holidays will be observed commencing at 8:00 p.m. on the calendar day preceding the Public Holiday and ending 8:00 p.m. of the calendar day of the Public Holiday.
PUBLIC HOLIDAY PAY
6.08	If a Public Holiday falls on an employee’s regular scheduled day of work that week, but he does not work because he is given the Holiday off, he will be paid his normal wages for the hours (8, 10 or 12 hours) he was scheduled to work on the Holiday, exclusive of overtime. If he does work, he will be paid eight hours for the Holiday if he is scheduled to work; and in addition to this amount he will receive two times his base wage rate for all hours worked on the Holiday.
6.09	If the Holiday falls on an employee’s regular scheduled day off that week, he shall receive Holiday pay of eight hours at his base wage rate.
6.10	A Public Holiday when not worked by an employee shall be paid provided the employee has worked at least one complete shift during the 14 calendar day period immediately prior to the observance of said Holiday. Employees will not be paid if they are on Leave of Absence and/or are receiving pay for the day through benefit plans or through the Workers’ Compensation Board.
Under the provisions of this Article, if an employee is eligible to receive pay for Christmas Day, he shall also be eligible for Boxing Day and New Year’s Day.
WORK ON PUBLIC HOLIDAY
6.11	This Article shall not limit the right of the Company to schedule an employee to work on any Public Holiday that falls on his regular scheduled work day; or for the Company
22
and Union to agree to a change in the date a Public Holiday is observed for all employees or groups of employees.
ARTICLE 7 - EMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
7.01	A new employee shall be considered as a probationary employee for a period not exceeding 360 regularly scheduled hours worked; however, at the end of the probationary period the employee’s seniority shall be retroactive to the day of hire.
NEW EMPLOYEE ORIENTATION
7.02	The Union President or his representative may spend one hour with new employees on their day of hire to familiarize the new employees with the Union. Following the completion of the employee’s probationary period, the Personnel Office will endeavour to schedule new employees for a follow-up interview with the Union President, or his designate. Such interview will not exceed one hour and will coincide with the end of the new employee’s work shift.
WORK DAY
7.03	For employees scheduled to work an 8 hour day schedule, the work day shall be the period beginning at midnight and continuing to the immediately following midnight. 7.04(a) For an employee scheduled to work an 8 hour day schedule, the work day shall be divided into three equal shifts of eight hours each; the first shift (graveyard shift) being the shift starting nearest to midnight; the second shift (day shift) being the shift starting nearest to 8:00 a.m.; and the third shift (afternoon shift) being the shift starting nearest to 4:00 p.m. The starting time shall not vary more than one and one-half hours and shall be limited to those involved in Underground operations.
23
(b) For employees scheduled to work a 10 hour day schedule, the work day shall be divided into two shifts of ten hours each. Day Shift will begin at 8:00 a.m. and extend through 6:00 p.m. and the Evening Shift will begin at 4:00 p.m. and extend through 2:00 a.m. the following morning. However, the legal day being midnight to midnight, the Evening Shift will actually be eight hours in the calendar day on which the shift began and two hours in the following calendar day.
(C) For employees scheduled to work a 12 hour day schedule, the work day shall be divided into two shifts of twelve hours each. Day Shift will begin at 8:00 a.m. and extend through 8:00 p.m., and the Night Shift will begin at 8:00 p.m. and extend through 8:00 a.m. the following morning.
7.05	One shift shall be a basic day’s work.
7.06	For Surface employees who work the straight day shift, a shift shall be eight hours including a rest period and a lunch period. The rest period will permit a work interruption of ten minutes duration in the morning and the lunch period will permit a twenty minute work interruption after noon. Employees will be given the opportunity to have a cup of coffee on the job in the afternoon. This latter coffee break and the above work interruption periods may be deferred or rescheduled in order to comply with emergency or urgent operational needs.
7.07	For employees in the Mine and Mine Maintenance Departments, the basic work day shall be eight hours collar-to-collar.
WORK WEEK
7.08(a) For employees scheduled to work either the 8 hour day or 10 hour day schedule, the work week shall be the period commencing at midnight on Saturday and ending at midnight on the immediately following Saturday.
24
(b) For employees scheduled to work a 12 hour day schedule, the work week shall be the period commencing at 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and ending at 8:00 p.m. on the immediately following Sunday.
7.09	For employees scheduled on the 8 hour day schedule, a basic work week shall be five basic work days of eight hours each or forty hours. For employees scheduled on the 10 hour day schedule, a basic work week shall be four basic work days of 10 hours each. For employees scheduled on the 12 hour day schedule, the work week shall average 40 hours per week over a four week period consisting of one -36 hour week, two - 48 hour weeks and one - 28 hour week. This shall not be construed as guaranteeing a minimum of forty hours of work per week to an employee.
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
7.10	The job classifications included in this Agreement shall be those shown in the Exhibits. An employee’s job classification shall be determined by the Company at the time he is employed and an employee’s job classification may be changed only in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the CWS manual.
7.11	Normally, an employee shall perform the work of his base job classification; however, when work is not available in an employee’s base job classification or when other work is more urgently required, such employee may be assigned temporarily to work outside his classification.
7.12	Employees shall not trade job classifications or assignments either on a temporary or permanent basis without the consent of the Company.
7.13	If a new job classification not shown in the Exhibits is established or in the event of a substantial change in the job content of an existing job classification, the Company shall establish the base rate, subject to the procedures outlined in the CWS manual.
25
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
7.14	Temporary employees may be hired only for periods not to exceed ninety days. The Company will offer temporary work to any permanent employee who may be laid off and eligible for recall. Such laid-off employees may accept or reject temporary work for the Company without, in any way, affecting their recall rights. The hiring of temporary employees is subject to the following limitations:
a)	Temporary employees shall be classified and compensated on the same basis as permanent employees; however, they will only acquire seniority rights as provided below.
b)	Temporary employees who may be accepted as permanent employees by the Company shall, upon their acceptance and the completion thereafter of their forty-five working day probationary period, acquire full seniority rights retroactive to their last date of hire as temporary employees. Temporary employees who have worked 90 consecutive days and are accepted as permanent employees shall be deemed to have served their probationary period.
c)	Temporary employees shall not displace permanent employees from their regular classifications.
d)	Temporary employees who have demonstrated to the Company that they are qualified candidates will be given preference for permanent employment.
NOTICE OF ACTION AND DISCIPLINE
7.15	Any employee who has been promoted, demoted, transferred, reprimanded, disciplined, given a Leave of Absence or whose employment has been terminated shall be provided promptly with a copy of the form stating the reason for such action.
7.16	If disciplinary action is taken during or because of the absence of an employee, the form shall be delivered to him personally or by mailing within twenty-four hours after the action to be taken is determined.
26
7.17	An employee who is being interviewed by a Supervisor and where such interview is likely to result in disciplinary action, the employee may request and shall be entitled to have present the nearest available Steward who is on Company premises.
7.18(a) If an employee is suspended, discharged or demoted for disciplinary reasons he will be entitled to a hearing with Management and Union representatives. As much as is practical such hearing will be held prior to the disciplinary action being taken except in the case of gross misconduct and/or a case requiring immediate action. If the employee suffers a loss of wages due to the disciplinary action prior to the hearing and at the hearing it is determined he should not have been disciplined, then he will be paid his lost wages.
(b) The Company will contact the Chairman of the Grievance Committee or in his absence an officer of the Union to arrange the hearing. Union representation at the hearing will normally consist of the Chairman or his delegate, the Steward involved and the employee.
7.19	A copy of any form involving discharge, suspension or discipline shall be mailed to the Union.
7.20	Disciplinary action which has not been the basis of further disciplinary action for a period of: a) nine months, if suspension has not been involved, or b) twelve months, if suspension has been involved, shall not be used to determine the extent of any new disciplinary action to be invoked.
SERVICE RECORD
7.21	The service record of an employee shall be available for inspection, by appointment during office hours, by the employee and his duly authorized representative provided the employee has obtained permission from his Supervisor to leave the job if that is required.
27
MONTHLY LIST OF CHANGES
7.22	The Company will furnish monthly to the Union a list showing new hires (including home addresses), transfers, promotions, demotions, layoffs, recalls and terminations of employment during the previous month and the effective dates. Copies of these lists will be posted on the second Tuesday of each month on the bulletin boards for the information of the employees. The date of the posting of such list shall be the date of discovery for any grievance arising from such list.
ARTICLE 8 ■ WAGE PROVISIONS
WAGE SCALE
8.01	The Wage Scale which shall be effective during the life of the Agreement shall be the Wage Scale set forth in Exhibit 1 of this Agreement.
SHIFT PREMIUM
8.02	In addition to the base hourly wage rates as set forth in the Wage Scale, Exhibit 1 of this Agreement, the Company shall pay to employees scheduled on the 8 hour day schedule, actually working on shifts other than day shifts, fifty-five cents per hour shift premium pay for all time worked on those shifts that are not a day shift. For employees scheduled on the 10 hour day schedule, the Company shall pay the above mentioned shift premium for all hours worked between 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. For employees scheduled to work the 12 hour day schedule, the Company shall pay to employees the above mentioned shift premium for all hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
8.03	No shift premium shall be added to, nor included in any benefits, pay or allowances other than the pay for time actually worked as provided in this Article except as specifically provided in the Article covering Annual Vacations and Public Holidays.
28
SUNDAY PREMIUM
8.04	For employees scheduled to work the 8 hour or 10 hour day schedules, a Sunday premium of one dollar seventy-five cents per hour will be paid for each hour actually worked by employees who are scheduled to work on a Sunday. For employees scheduled to work the 12 hour day schedule, the above mentioned Sunday premium will be paid for each hour actually worked by the employees who are scheduled to work between 8:00 p.m. on Saturday and 8:00 p.m. Sunday. Sunday premium shall not be paid for any overtime hours worked on a Sunday or for any hours worked on a Sunday which is a Public Holiday.
UNDERGROUND PREMIUM
8.05	An Underground premium of forty cents per hour will be paid for all hours worked by an employee Underground.
REPORTING FOR WORK
8.06	If an employee reports in good faith to work on a day which he is scheduled to work, unless he has been notified prior to reporting for work not to report, and no work is available, he shall receive eight hours pay at the rate for his base job classification. This clause applies to the scheduled shift regardless of the calendar day application.
8.07	This provision shall not apply when the employee has been absent from work and fails before returning to work, to notify the Company of his intention to return to work; or if the employee has not notified the Company of his correct phone number; or he has no phone.
WORK SCHEDUUE
8.08(a) The Company shall post a weekly work schedule on the Monday prior to the start of the work week. This schedule will not be altered for short periods of time (one
29
week) to avoid requiring employees to work on days for which premium pay would be payable.
(b)	For employees scheduled to work the 8 hour or 10 hour day schedules, an employee will be paid two times his basic hourly rate for all hours worked on his first shift of a new work day or work shift scheduled where his schedule has been changed with less than forty-eight hours notice.
(c)	For employees scheduled to work the 12 hour day schedule, an employee will be paid two times his basic hourly rate for all hours worked on his first shift of the new work day or work shift scheduled where his schedule has been changed with less than 24 hours’ notice.
NOTE: Employees scheduled to work either the 10 or 12 hour work schedule should refer to article 8.14(c) for dayshift workers’ override provisions.
8.09	An employee who is asked by the Company to work and who works his day off will not be required to take off a scheduled day to avoid the payment of overtime.
8.10	Promotions, demotions, transfers and changing work loads may necessitate the change of work schedules subsequent to posting and such changes are not made for the purpose of avoiding overtime.
CALLOUT
8.11	An employee called to report to work when off site and who reports to work will be paid at double his base rate for the hours actually worked or for six hours at his base rate, whichever is greater.
8.12	This provision does not apply to any employee who starts work within one hour of his regular work schedule.
8.13	If an employee completes the work for which he was called out or other emergency work prior to working the minimum time guaranteed he may leave and receive the minimum of six hours at his base rate.
30
8.14(a) If a steady day employee is called out, other than to replace an absent employee, and works any portion of time between midnight and 4:00 a.m., he will not be required to report for his day shift that day until eight hours have elapsed from the time he finished the callout work. He will be paid at his base straight time rate for any time missed on his regular day shift due to this provision. If the employee has less than two hours left in his regular shift after the required eight hours rest period he will not be required to work the remainder of his shift but he will not receive pay for this additional time missed. Article 8.14(b) will apply if it is more favourable to the employee.
(b)	An employee who works in excess of sixteen hours in a 24 hour period shall be granted his next regularly scheduled shift off with pay. Pay will be for eight hours at the employee’s basic straight time rate and will be paid only if such regularly scheduled shift of work is consecutive with the 24 hour period in which the excessive time was worked.
(c)	AU Straight day shift 8 hour day employees assigned to work the 10 hour day or 12 hour day schedules will be subject to the following modifications to the overtime provisions:
i)	overtime must be paid for all hours worked in excess of eight on the first shift of a scheduled change to the 10 hour day or 12 hour day schedule even if the appropriate notice as outlines in article 8.08 (b) and (c) is given.
ii)	employees temporarily assigned to the 10 hour day or 12 hour day schedules shall be subject to a basic 40 hour work week for the purposes of overtime calculations.
OVERTIME
8.15(a) As is practical and economical, the Company will endeavour to equitably distribute work requiring overtime, among employees who normally perform that type of work.
(b) All overtime hours worked by an employee shall be paid for at two times the employee’s base wage rate. Any
31
premiums the employee may be entitled to during the overtime will not be compounded in the overtime rate calculation but simply added on to the overtime rate if applicable.
8.16	Overtime shall be paid for:
a)	All hours worked by an employee in excess of eight hours within a twenty-four hour period, except if because of changes made at the request of the employee.
b)	All hours worked by an employee in excess of his scheduled straight time hours within any single work week. When a Public Holiday(s) fall in the week, employees scheduled to work the 8 hour or 12 hour day schedule will have the work week shortened by eight hours for each holiday falling in the week for the purpose of calculating overtime pay. For employees scheduled to work the 10 hour day schedule, the work week is shortened by ten hours for each holiday falling in the week.
c)	All hours worked by an employee on his scheduled days off in a work week.
d)	All hours worked by an employee on a Public Holiday.
8.17	The provisions of 8.16 above may be modified if the Company, Union and Minister of Labour agree in writing to some other arrangement of the work day and/or work week and in that case, the condition for overtime payment would be shown in the agreement.
8.18	Overtime may be refused by an employee except in an emergency.
8.19	Time paid for but not worked shall not be included as time worked for the purposes of computing any overtime pay for an employee except when the time not worked was spent in accordance with Article 12.07, 14.03 or while attending OH&S training courses authorized by the Company as in Article 4.09.
8.20	None of the time worked by an employee shall be paid for on the basis of more than one of the provisions of this Agreement.
32
OVERTIME MEALS
8.21	When an employee is required to work in excess of two hours of overtime following work on his scheduled shift, he shall be furnished an adequate lunch and beverage from supplies maintained by the Company for such purpose.
8.22	An adequate lunch will be supplied within two hours after the start of such overtime shift. The lunch is to be eaten by the employee in the vicinity of his job site with due regard to a minimum delay to operations, but with consideration for proper time for consumption of the lunch.
8.23	The Company will supply additional meals at four hour intervals if the employee continues to work overtime. If the overtime work is nearing completion when it is time for a meal, the employee may elect to have a meal provided or he may request the Foreman to put in a meal claim for $10.00 and continue work and leave when the job is completed. This election must be made known to the Foreman prior to the preparation of the meal.
8.24	In the case of callouts, the Company will supply a meal if the callout work lasts more than 3 hours and the employee requests a meal. Additional meals will be supplied at four hour intervals. The meal claim provision as in Article 8.23 will also apply to callouts.
TRANSPORTATION
8.25	The Company will not furnish transportation and will not attempt to exercise any control over its employees while travelling to and from the property except as hereinafter provided.
8.26(a) When an employee works overtime and no transportation is available the Company shall furnish transportation to his residence within a 50 km radius of the property when the overtime is completed. This provision will also apply to an employee who is suspended before the end of his shift.
33
(b) When an employee is held over and he is the driver of his car pool that day, the Company will arrange for one vehicle to transport the employees of that car pool to their homes within a 50 km radius of the property.
8.27	A transportation allowance of $12.50 will be paid to employees who are:
a)	called out as provided in Article 8.11, or,
b)	who are required to report for work at other than the start of their regular scheduled shift. However, if a majority of the employee’s crew are to report for work at an odd starting time, the transportation allowance will not apply.
WAGES ACCORDING TO JOB
8.28	When an employee is temporarily assigned to and works in a higher-paying classification, he will be paid the rate of pay of the higher-paying classification for all hours worked in the higher-paying classification. In the event an employee works in excess of two hours in the higher-paying classification he shall receive the rate of the higher-paying classification for all hours he worked in that shift, except as modified in the Exhibits.
8.29	When an employee is temporarily assigned to and works in a lower-paying classification, he will be paid the rate of pay of his base classification.
ABSENCES
8.30	An employee who cannot work on a shift he is scheduled to work shall notify his immediate Supervisor as soon as possible. If it is impossible to notify his immediate Supervisor, he shall notify another Supervisor in his department or the Security Guard on duty and report the anticipated absence.
8.31	An emergency in personal affairs or illness of the employee will be an authorized absence if reported prior to the scheduled shift or as soon thereafter as is reason-
34
ably possible and if the excuse is justifiable. Any dispute as to whether an excuse is justifiable may be handled in accordance with the grievance procedure.
8.32	An employee not on duty during a shift he is scheduled to work shall be on an unexcused absence unless his absence is because of authorized absence or Leave of Absence provided in this Agreement.
8.33	Failure to return to work at the end of an authorized absence, an unexcused absence of two or more consecutive work days or repeated unexcused absences may result in disciplinary action or termination of the employment of the employee.
ARTICLE 9 • SENIORITY
GENERAL
9.01	The parties recognize that job opportunity and security should increase with length of service with the Company. In all cases of promotion, transfer, training, job assignment, shift assignment, layoff or recall, senior qualified employees shall be entitled to preferences. In the case of preference for a day or shift assignment, General Seniority will be used.
9.02	“Qualified” shall mean the physical and mental fitness and the ability to meet the regular requirements of the job after a reasonable trial or training period. In maintenance job classifications qualified also means the ability to satisfactorily perform at the classification level.
ESTABLISHMENT OF SENIORITY
9.03	The term “seniority” as used in this Agreement shall be defined as:
a)	General - the length of continuous service with the Company since the employee’s date of hiring, except as expressly provided herein.
35
b)	Departmental - the total length of time an employee with continuous service has spent in a department.
9.04	If two or more employees begin work for the Company on the same date, they shall be rated on the General Seniority list in alphabetical order.
9.05	When two or more employees begin working in a department on the same date, they shall be rated on the Department Seniority list in the order of their General Seniority.
9.06	All Departmental and General Seniority shall be lost when the employee’s employment is terminated, the employee is discharged and is not reinstated through the Grievance Procedure or the employee does not return after being recalled by the Company.
9.07	After completion of the forty-five days worked probationary period, an employee shall be credited with Departmental Seniority from his entry date in the department in which he is assigned as a regular employee.
DEPARTMENTS
9.08	For the purposes of this Agreement, the following are Departments:
a)	Mine Department
b)	Mine Maintenance Department
c)	Mill Department
d)	Plant Maintenance Department
e)	Storage, Loading and Shipping Department
f)	Warehouse Department
g)	Analytical Department
SENIORITY LISTS
9.09	The Company shall compile Seniority lists showing Departmental and General Seniority for each employee.
9.10	Such lists shall be revised at three month intervals from the date of this Agreement and a copy of the lists shall be mailed to the Union. A copy of the depart-
36
ment’s list will be posted in the department and a copy of the General Seniority list will be posted in the change room. Upon written request from the Union, the Company will mail a copy of the seniority list for his department to a Union Steward named in the request.
9.11	An employee shall notify the Personnel Office or someone designated by management within thirty days of posting of any error in such list.
ARTICLE 10 ■ VACANCIES
GENERAL
10.01 The Company shall determine the number of employees in each job classification and if a vacancy in a job classification is to be filled or to be left vacant. 10.02(a) When the services of individuals with special abilities or training are required and are not available within the Bargaining Unit, the Company may transfer or employ such individuals from outside the Bargaining Unit.
(b) The Company will inform the Union of any vacant First Line Foreman positions that are to be filled in order that employees may make application for such positions. The extent of the Company’s obligation in this regard will be to inform any unsuccessful employee applicant of the reasons why he was not awarded the position. Under no circumstances will a grievance be accepted under the provisions of this clause.
10.03	Vacancies defined: A temporary vacancy is one which lasts thirty days or less or is one created by employees on vacation. This period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. A permanent vacancy is one which lasts more than thirty days.
TRAINING
10.04	To the extent consistent with efficient operations, a senior lower-bracket employee will be given the
37
opportunity to train for the higher-bracket job next available to him in his Line of Progression, provided however that in determining the qualifications of successful bidders, as provided in this Article, such training will not be given preference in determining qualifications.
10.05(a) If the senior employee in a job classification or assignment refuses to avail himself of training opportunities or refuses a promotion, the Company may assign a less senior employee in that job classification or assignment to another shift or assignment consistent with his Departmental Seniority and qualifications if required to allow for promotional opportunities for other employees. “Promotional opportunities” as used above also refers to the additional skill assignments in the Mill Department.
<b) Where certain operating job classifications require training and qualifications on more than one unit of equipment or area, employees within the classification will be required to rotate assignments on a seniority basis in order to provide training opportunity for other employees in the same classification,
FILLING TEMPORARY VACANCIES
10.06	A temporary vacancy may be filled by an employee who is regularly classified in the job classification in which the vacancy exists or by the temporary advancement of an employee on the same shift based on Departmental Seniority and qualifications. It is understood that temporary vacancies which occur during the course of a shift may not always be filled by the senior qualified employee.
10.07	When filling temporary vacancies, the Company will determine in a fair and equitable manner the qualifications of an employee to fill the particular vacancy which exists.
FILLING PERMANENT VACANCIES
10.08	A permanent vacancy shall be filled in accordance with the Lines of Progression as contained in the Exhibits of
38
this Agreement on the basis of Departmental Seniority, subject to the job bidding provisions of the Agreement where applicable. If qualified employees are not available within the department, the permanent vacancy may be filled from outside the department or if not available within the Bargaining Unit, from outside the Bargaining Unit.
10.09	An employee awarded a permanent vacancy as per Article 10.08 shall be entitled to a reasonable training period up to 240 regularly scheduled working hours. During the training period the employee shall train at his prior job rate or at the new job rate whichever is less. The employee will receive the new job rate prior to the completion of the 240 hours worked if he assumes the job duties without training assistance. (The training period and rate will be modified as indicated in the various Exhibits.)
REFUSAL OF PROMOTION
10.10	If an employee refuses to accept a promotion, he will remain eligible for consideration for a future vacancy in the classification or assignment if he indicates in writing to his Department Head that he wishes to be considered.
DAY ASSIGNMENT
10.11	An employee who is on a rotating shift assignment other than for his training for maintenance progression, may file a written application for consideration for a straight day assignment within his department. A vacancy in such day assignment will be filled by the senior qualified applicant but the filling of the day vacancy may be temporarily delayed until a qualified replacement is available for the successful applicant.
JOB POSTING
10.12	A permanent job vacancy will be posted for plant-wide bidding for:
39
a)	New job assignments not specified in the Agreement,
b)	Job assignments above bid level jobs which the Company has been unable to fill in a Line of Progression,
c)	Bid level job assignments as designated in Exhibits 2 through 7 of the Agreement,
d)	Permanent day shift maintenance job assignments,
e)	An apprenticeship job vacancy,
0 All job postings below Journeyman and above bid level, in a Maintenance Department shall be posted in consultation with the Union,
g) All permanent day shift vacancies that cannot be filled from the Line of Progression, including those below bid level, will be posted (also see Footnotes Exhibit 2, Mine Operating Department).
10.13	Notice of the vacancies as defined in 10.12 shall be posted for six days and shall show job classification, job assignment, rate of pay, department, shift work or day work, and the crew where the initial vacancy exists.
10.14	An employee who desires to be considered for the posted vacancy shall submit a written bid on a bid-form supplied by the Company within the posting period which closes at the end of the day shift on the sixth day of posting. A Shop Steward may file a bid on behalf of an absent employee.
10.15	Job bids submitted within the six day posting period shall be considered in filling the vacancy. The vacancy shall be awarded to the qualified applicant on the basis of General Seniority. The name of the successful bidder will be posted within five days following the end of the bidding period.
10.16	The Company will transfer the successful bidder within thirty days following the posting of the successful bidder’s name if a qualified employee is available to fill
40
the vacancy of the successful bidder. In the event two or more successful bidders to the same job posting cannot be transferred simultaneously, the employee with the most General Seniority will begin accumulating Departmental Seniority in the new department when any successful bidder on that job is transferred. If the Company is unable to make such transfer within thirty calendar days after posting the name of the successful bidder, then such bidder will receive the rate for the new job starting on the thirty-first day, provided the new rate of pay is higher than the bidder’s present rate and the bidder will begin accumulating the new Departmental Seniority on the thirty-first day.
10.17	An employee who bid and was awarded the jot may not bid on another vacancy within six months of the posting of his name as a successful bidder unless the new vacancy posted is for an apprenticeship or maintenance progression vacancy and his prior successful bid was ai non-apprenticeship or a non-maintenance progression vacancy. This disqualification does not apply to an, employee who has been displaced from his job assignment due to a layoff or a reduction of the workforce or has been awarded a posted job which lasts less than six months.
10.18	The permanent vacancy notices as provided for above will be posted on a bulletin board provided for that purpose in the change room. Bids on these permanent vacancies shall be deposited in the bid-box located in the change room.
10.19	Vacancies in job classifications that require job posting, will be posted prior to the hiring of personnel from outside the Bargaining Unit.
10.20	Any vacancies in job classifications that require job postings, that are posted, but not filled by bids or outside hiring within three months, will be reposted if the Company still wishes to fill that vacancy.
10.21	A successful bidder on a job in another department who voluntarily disqualifies himself or is disquali-
41
fled by the Company, as permitted in Articles 10.23 and 10.24, will revive his former Department Seniority and will be permitted to bid on any job vacancies within his department but will not be permitted to bid on any job vacancies other than maintenance progression or apprenticeship vacancies outside his department for a period of six months following his return to his department.
10.22	An employee who occupies a permanent day shift vacancy who subsequently loses the job due to a reassignment to shift work will be returned to the day shift job when it next becomes vacant on the basis of General Seniority. The Company will not be required to post such vacancies until all eligible employees have been returned, bypassed the opportunity or have been successful bidders on another job.
QUALIFYING ON THE JOB
10.23	If within 240 regularly scheduled working hours an employee in a new job classification or assignment voluntarily disqualifies himself he shall return to his last classification and assignment if the job assignment still exists. 10.24(a) If an employee fails to satisfactorily perform the duties in a job classification or assignment, he shall be returned to his last classification and assignment if the job assignment still exists, and he will not be considered for the job assignment he was disqualified from for a period of up to six months.
(b) For the purposes of Article 10.23 and 10.24 if the employee is unable to return to his last classification and assignment because it no longer exists, then the affected employee will be reclassified in accordance with the provisions outlined in Article 11.04.
10.25	In the Maintenance Departments, any employee entering the Maintenance Line of Progression after July 1, 1979, who does not progress in the progression after two attempts at any level up to the Journeyman level, may be
42
disqualified. Such employee may be returned to his status before entering the maintenance progression system following consultation with the Union.
TRANSFERS OUT OF THE DEPARTMENT
10.26	The Company may with the written consent of the employee temporarily transfer an employee possessing special abilities to another department for a period not to exceed six months. Such employee shall retain his Departmental Seniority in his regular department.
TRANSFERS OUT OF THE BARGAINING UNIT
10.27	Employees transferred from hourly-rated jobs to temporary jobs outside the Bargaining Unit shall continue to accumulate seniority.
10.28	An employee transferred from an hourly-rated job to a permanent job outside the Bargaining Unit shall retain all seniority held at the time of the transfer and will reactivate such seniority if he returns to the Bargaining Unit within a six month period following such transfer. In the event the transfer is for more than six months, the employee shall lose all retained seniority.
ARTICLE 11 - LAYOFF AND REDUCTION AND RESTORATION OF THE WORKFORCE
NOTICE OF LAYOFF
11.01	Subject to the Labour Standards Act, in any reduction of the workforce for a period in excess of six consecutive days, the Company will give employees so affected at least seven days’ notice prior to their layoff. In lieu of the notice, the Company may elect to pay equivalent wages exclusive of overtime to the employee laid off.
11.02	In any reduction of work forces expected to last for a period not longer than seven days, the Company will attempt to give employees thus affected twenty-four hours notice.
43
REDUCTION OF WORKFORCE
11.03	Employees who have been laid off for more than fourteen days will be entitled to subsequent layoff notice or pay in lieu of notice which shall not be less than:
-	one week’s notice if the employee’s period of employment is less than three years;
-	three weeks’ notice if the employee’s period of employment is three years or more but less than five years;
-	five weeks’ notice if the employee’s period of employment is five or more years.
The above provisions do not apply if the period of layoff is for six days or less, or if an employee is recalled for a specified, limited period of work.
The Company may elect to pay base rate for that portion of the notice period in respect of which notice was not given.
11.04	When the Company deems it necessary to reduce the working force for a layoff expected to last in excess of six days, the following procedure shall be followed:
a)	Employees who have not yet established General Seniority shall first be laid off, then employees with the least General Seniority shall be laid off until the necessary reduction is effected.
b)	The Company will not be required to retain an employee because of his General Seniority unless such an employee possesses the necessary qualifications to perform and is willing to perform the work of the employee who would otherwise be laid off in accordance with this provision.
c)	Within each department affected by the reduction, employees in the job classifications abolished or reduced shall be reclassified within the department on the basis of qualifications and General Seniority.
d)	When there are vacancies existing in departments due to layoff of employees by General Seniority, employees who have been unable to remain in their respective depart-
44
ments shall be assigned to fill the existing vacancies on the basis of qualifications and General Seniority.
e)	Any employee who accepts layoff in lieu of a transfer to another department or is laid off on the basis of General Seniority shall continue to accumulate General Seniority and shall be eligible for recall to work for a period not exceeding twelve months after which the layoff shall be deemed to be permanent and his employment terminated as of the date of the layoff except if during the twelfth month following such layoff the laid off employee notifies the Company by letter with return address attached that he desires to be restored to employment he shall continue to accumulate General Seniority and shall be eligible for recall to work for a total period of twenty-four months from the date of such layoff.
f)	The laid off employee shall leave his address with the Company and shall notify the Company of any change of address.
g)	The reasonable trial or training period as referred to in Article 9.02, does not apply in the case of layoff and recall and restoration of the workforce. However, a senior employee will be entitled to a 3-day familiarization period in one of the existing vacancies. It is understood the Company may refuse to grant the 3-day familiarization period if it can demonstrate that the employee could not meet the requirements of the job even if a 3-day familiarization period were granted. An employee who fails to meet the requirements of the job during the 3-day familiarization period in a job at bid level or above will be eligible to displace a junior employee in a position below bid level who filled the vacancy as per 11.04(d) on the basis of General Seniority. The 3-day familiarization period will be 3 normal work days for the individual based on the weekly work schedule in effect for the classification in which the period of familiarization is being offered whether it be on the 8,10 or 12 hour schedules.
45
RECALL OF THE WORKFORCE
11.05	A laid off employee who fails to report for work to the Company’s office within ten days after receiving notification of recall by registered mail or telegram unless he requests and receives an additional ten days extension during the ten days shall forfeit his seniority and right to recall. This period will be extended if disability prevents immediate return if the employee notifies the Company of the personal disability within the ten day period.
11.06	If at the time of the layoff the Company gives an employee a definite date upon which he is to return to work, notification will not be necessary and failure to return upon the designated date shall constitute a voluntary termination of employment as of the date of layoff.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
11.07	When an employee is laid off the Company may require that he be examined by the Company physician to determine his physical condition and upon recall shall be re-examined by the physician. If the layoff has continued for thirty days or more or if he has been involved in an accident during the layoff, he shall be eligible to return to work if he is physically capable of performing the work for which he is recalled. The physician’s fee will be paid by the Company.
11.08	A copy of the physician’s report of each examination shall be furnished to the Company, the Union and the employee involved.
LAYOFF DUE TO TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
11.09	An employee with five or more years of General Seniority who is laid off as a result of technological change, as defined by the Trade Union Act 1994, or permanent property closure, shall receive a severance payment of one week’s pay (40 hours) at the employee’s base wage at the time of layoff, for each complete year of accumulated serv-
46
ice prior to this layoff, up to a maximum of thirteen weeks’ pay. In the event an employee who received a severance payment as provided above, is recalled within the period covered by the payment (maximum of thirteen weeks), he shall repay a prorata amount of the severance payment based upon the date of recall. Subject to the mutual written agreement between the Company and the Union, employees subject to layoff because of technological change, will be entitled to retrain in other job assignments within the scope of this Agreement. The parties agree that for the purpose of this agreement, the term “significant numbers” asreferred to in the Trade Union Act shall mean one or more persons, and as such any provisions outlined in this agreement or in the Trade Union Act shall apply should a technological change effect one or more employees.
EMERGENCY SHUTDOWN
11.10	In the event of an emergency shutdown (seven days or less) selection of employees to be retained and scheduling of work will be done by the Company in the manner best judged to expedite the work and return to operation as early as possible.
11.11	Selection of employees in such circumstances will be made in a fair and equitable manner.
11.12	Whenever possible the Union will be advised in advance of the shutdown.
BASIS OF RECALL
11.13(a) Employees will be recalled from layoff on the basis of their General Seniority and ability to perform the work for which they are being recalled.
(b) An employee who lost his job assignment due to a reduction of the workforce or layoff will be required to return to that job assignment when it next becomes vacant on the basis of General Seniority, unless he has since been 47
awarded a posted job, or has been displaced for more than 24 months; however, when a vacancy occurs in a Department, preference to fill the vacancy will be given to a qualified employee with more General Seniority who was displaced from his job for 24 months or less due to a layoff or reduction of the workforce, until there is a vacancy in his former job assignment.
(c) The Company will not be required to post such vacancies until all eligible employees have been returned to their former job assignments.
MAINTENANCE OF RATE
11.14(a) An employee who is demoted due to a reduction in the workforce will maintain his base rate of pay for a maximum of twelve calendar months from the original date of demotion providing he has three years of service in the classification he was demoted from.
(b)	An employee who is laid off due to a reduction in the workforce and is subsequently recalled into a lower paying classification within twelve calendar months from the original date of layoff will maintain the base rate of pay he had at the time of layoff for the remainder of the twelve calendar month period providing he has three years of service in the classification he was laid off from.
(c)	An employee who is demoted due to a technological change as outlined in Article 11,09 will maintain his base rate for a maximum of eighteen calendar months from the original date of demotion providing he has three years of service with the Company. An employee who is maintaining his rate in accordance with this provision shall be required to accept any higher paying permanent vacancy in the department he was demoted from providing he has the seniority and qualifications to fill that classification. Failure to do so will result in the loss of these rate maintenance provisions.
48
ARTICLE 12 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE PURPOSE
12.01	The purpose of this Article is to establish procedures for discussion, processing and settlement of grievances as quickly as possible.
GRIEVANCE
12.02	A grievance is any controversy, complaint, misunderstanding or dispute arising, as to the meaning, application or observance of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
12.03	In the event a question arises as to the arbitrability of any matter, the question of arbitrability may be submitted to arbitration as provided in this Article.
UNION REPRESENTATION
12.04	The Union may select and the Company will recognize a duly authorized representative to negotiate during working hours for the settlement of disputes and grievances of employees covered by this Agreement.
12.05	A Steward is an employee of the Company designated by the Union to handle grievances originating within his shift, group or department.
12.06	No Steward shall leave his regular duties until permission has been given by his Supervisor. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
12.07	The Company shall not make any deductions from wages of the duly authorized representative of the Union in respect to the time actually spent in negotiating for the settlement of such disputes and grievances prior to arbitration.
Members of the Grievance Committee or their alternates will not lose pay for time spent at prior hearings and Step III grievance meetings. If the Grievance Committeeman is on his regularly scheduled time off and attends a prior hearing or Step III grievance meeting, he 49
will be paid his base rate for the time actually spent in the prior hearing or grievance meeting and such time spent shall not be included as time worked for the purpose of computing any overtime pay.
12.08	The Union may select and the Company will recognize upon written notification as to their identity a Grievance Committee of three employees of the Company and the International Representative.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
12.09	To ensure continuity of operations, the discussion and/or negotiations of grievances shall be conducted immediately after the start or concurrent with the end of the shift.
12.10	Employees shall attempt to settle complaints or disagreements with their immediate Supervisor before processing a written grievance at Step I, if practical.
Step I
a)	An employee(s) having a grievance shall present it in writing to his (their) Foreman within five days of the occurrence or the discovery of the grievance.
b)	If the employee(s) so chooses, he may have his Steward present.
c)	The Foreman will reply in writing to the grievance within five days from the time the grievance was received.
12.11	Step II
a)	If the grievance is not settled at Step I, then the grievance shall be submitted in writing to the General Foreman and/or Department Superintendent within seventy-two hours from the time the Foreman’s decision is received at Step I.
b)	The General Foreman and/or Superintendent shall render his decision in writing within seventy-two hours from the time the written grievance is received by him.
12.12	Step III
a) If the decision of the General Foreman and/or Department Superintendent is not acceptable to the 50
Union, the written grievance shall be submitted by the Grievance Committee to the General Manager or his appointed representative within seventy-two hours from the time the General Foreman and/or Department Superintendent’s decision is received by the Union.
b)	The General Manager, or his appointed representative, shall meet with the Grievance Committee to a maximum of two Union Grievance Committee members at the meeting and shall discuss the grievance within nine days of the receipt of the grievance by the General Manager.
c)	The General Manager, or his appointed representative, shall reply to the grievance in writing within nine days of the meeting at Step III.
12.13	If the decision of the General Manager at Step III is not acceptable to the Union, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration upon notification in writing to the Company by the Union within fifteen days from the date the General Manager’s decision at Step III was received or should have been received.
12.14	Arbitration is waived on matters not submitted within either fifteen day period.
TIME PERIODS
12.15(a) In computing the various time periods in the Grievance and Arbitration Procedures, Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays designated in this Agreement, shall not be considered. In addition, in Step I and Step II of the Grievance Procedure the grievant’s regular scheduled days off will not be considered in computing the time period.
(b) Steps in the Grievance Procedure and/or time periods in the Grievance Procedure may be omitted or prolonged by a mutual understanding between the Company and the Union where such action may contribute to a settlement of the grievance.
51
GROUP GRIEVANCES
12.16(a) Where grievances affect more than one employee in the same way, or affect the interests of the Union as a party to this Agreement, the Grievance Committee or the employees may initiate a written grievance at Step II of the Grievance Procedure within 5 working days of the occurrence or the discovery of the matter. In the event that two or more employees have grievances which are sufficiently common in nature, they may be dealt with at the same time. 12.16(b) The General Foreman and/or Superintendent in regard to a group grievance shall render his decision in writing within five days from the time the written grievance was submitted.
12.17	Failure of the Company to answer a grievance within the time limits of Steps I and II shall automatically advance the grievance to the next step.
ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
12.18	Contingent upon having carried out the steps of the foregoing Grievance Procedure, a grievance may, upon written request by the Union on behalf of an employee or a group of employees, be referred to Arbitration.
12.19	Within ten days of the receipt of the notice, the Company and the Union shall select an Arbitrator as outlined below and notify him of his selection.
12.20	Each grievance submitted to arbitration shall be heard separately unless mutually agreed to by the parties.
12.21	The Arbitrator to hear and decide such grievance requiring arbitration shall be selected from the following list:
Mr. Dan Ish Professor Kurt Wetzel Mr. Walter Matkowski
12.22	The Arbitrator shall be selected by rotation in the order listed above. If the Arbitrator so selected is
52
unable to serve, then the Arbitrator next in the list of names shall be selected.
12.23	No member of the panel of Arbitrators may be removed except by mutual consent of the Company and the Union.
12.24	If a member of the panel is permanently unable to serve for any reason, the Company and the Union shall mutually agree upon a replacement.
12.25	The Arbitrator shall hear evidence relating to the alleged violation or dispute and argument therein by the parties and shall make a written decision on the matter or matters in dispute.
12.26	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties but in no event shall the Arbitrator have the power to alter, to modify or to amend this Agreement in any respect.
ARBITRATION COST
12.27	The parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the arbitration.
WITNESSES
12.28	At any stage of the Grievance or Arbitration Procedures, each party has the right to request the presence of any necessary witnesses.
DISCHARGE AND SUSPENSION
12.29	In the event of the discharge or suspension of an employee which is alleged by the Union to be without just cause, the employee or the Union may within seven days after the suspension or the discharge forego Steps I and II of the Grievance Procedure and submit a grievance in writing directly to the General Manager or his appointed representative.
12.30	Upon receipt of the written grievance, the General Manager or his appointed representative shall meet with the Grievance Committee within seventy-two hours.
53
12.31	After such meeting, the grievance shall be subject to the same procedure as any grievance at the General Manager’s level.
12.32	If at the General Manager’s level or at arbitration it is found that the discharge or suspension was without just and sufficient cause, the employee will be reinstated. He may be paid the full amount of lost wages, or any part thereof, as the General Manager or Arbitrator may deem just under the circumstances which led to the suspension or discharge, less any wages earned from other employment or unemployment compensation received by him or to be received by him for the period involved.
12.33	In the event the Arbitrator decides the penalty is too severe in relation to the offense, taking into account the employee’s prior disciplinary record, he shall have the authority to modify the penalty as he may deem just and equitable.
ARTICLE 13 • GENERAL PROVISIONS
LAW AND GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS
13.01	Nothing contained in this Agreement shall interfere with any obligation of the parties hereto to comply with any law, regulation, order or interpretive ruling made or issued by a government agency and found applicable and such compliancies shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement. Any of the provisions of this Agreement in conflict with such obligation shall be opened for negotiation to revise them to comply with such law or order and the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected.
RIGHTS OF PARTIES TO AGREEMENT
13.02	Seniority rights and other rights provided by this Agreement, affecting employees subject hereto, shall supersede any such similar rights and other rights existing prior to this Agreement and the Company will not be
54
liable in any way to an employee for the loss of any such rights which may occur by reason of observance of the terms of this Agreement.
AGREEMENT REVISIONS
13.03	This Agreement shall only be changed by the written consent of the contracting parties or if required by law or other governmental regulations.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
13.04	The Company and the Union agree there is a need to redress the under-representation in the workforce of persons of native ancestry, women and the disabled. To this end, the parties further agree to establish a joint committee to study measures to redress such imbalances.
COPIES OF AGREEMENT
13.05	Copies of this Agreement shall be delivered to each employee by the Company within thirty days after date of employment or as soon thereafter as they are available.
13.06	The Union shall encourage each employee to become familiar with this Agreement.
BULLETIN BOARDS
13.07	The Company shall provide and maintain Union Bulletin Boards at locations agreed upon by the Union and the Company. Such Bulletin Boards may be used by the Union for the purpose of posting notices approved by the Union or its designated representative.
ACCESS TO PROPERTY BY UNION REPRESENTATIVES
13.08	A representative of the International Union and/or authorized agent of the Local Union may have access to the Company’s property during week days
55
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. or at other prearranged times, when it is necessary that they actually observe operations about which a specific grievance or dispute has arisen in order to understand the case.
13.09	He shall obtain from the General Manager or his designated representative specific authorization for each visit and his visit shall be conducted in accordance with Company rules regarding plant visitors.
13.10	The International Representative and/or authorized agent of the Local Union will not interfere with employees on duty in the performance of their work and if he desires to talk with an employee while on duty, he must receive permission from the employee’s Supervisor.
13.11	Should an emergency arise making it necessary for the International Representative and/or authorized agent of the Local Union to interview an employee while on duty, such an employee shall be called away from his working area for the purpose of such interview, but only after proper relief has been provided by his immediate Supervisor.
HANDICAPPED EMPLOYEES
13.12	The Company agrees that in the event an employee becomes handicapped during his employment with the Company or a known handicap becomes a limiting factor on the work the employee can do, he will be placed in a classification and assignment consistent with his limitations provided a vacancy exists. However, no employee with more General Seniority will be required to vacate his classification or assignment solely to accommodate the placement of a handicapped employee.
13.13	Promotional opportunities may be limited for the handicapped employee depending upon his ability to do the job and the Company will not be required to try the handicapped employee in any assignment if there are reasonable grounds for believing he will not be able to satisfac-
56
torily or safely perform the job or if there is a possibility? that such an assignment may be injurious to his health.
13.14	Deterioration of the employee’s ability to perform a job may result in his relocation to another more suitable job if available or eventual removal from the active payroll.
13.15	The Company will have the right to require the employee to undergo periodic mental or physical examinations to determine the suitability of his remaining on a job or on the active payroll.
ARTICLE 14 - TERM OF AGREEMENT
EFFECTIVE DATE
14.01	This Agreement shall become effective at midnight on the date of ratification and shall continue in full force and effect until and including .April 30, 2000 and from year to year thereafter unless written ilUllue 15> given as provided by Article 14.02 below.
NOTICE TO TERMINATE OR REVISE AGREEMENT
14.02	Either party to a collective bargaining agreement may, not less than thirty days or more than sixty days before the expiring date of the Agreement, give notice in writing to the other party to negotiate a revision of the Agreement and where a notice is given the parties shall forthwith bargain collectively with a view to the renewal or revision of the Agreement or the conclusion of a new Agreement.
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
14.03	The Company will pay a member of the Union Negotiating Committee (maximum 5 members) at his base rate for the hours he was regularly scheduled to work, for each day the Committee member meets with the Company to negotiate the Collective Bargaining Agreement. If a work stoppage is in effect this payment will not apply.
57
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
14.04	This document contains the entire Agreement between the parties and shall not be deemed modified or expanded in any way unless such modification or expansion shall be evidenced in writing, signed by both parties and dated on or subsequent to the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 15 - C.W.S.
15.01	The Cooperative Wage Study (C.W.S.) Manual for Job Description, Classification and Wage Administration, dated June 4,1981 (herein referred to as “the Manual”), is incorporated into this Agreement as APPENDIX “A”, and the appropriate provisions shall apply as set forth in full within this Agreement.
C.W.S. COMMITTEE
15.02	The “C.W.S. Committee” shall consist of three employees appointed by the Union and three persons appointed by the Company. Either party may change its representatives from time to time. Members shall not lose pay (base rate) for time spent on approved committee work.
15.03	After June 1,1981, a production employee who is the successful bidder on a maintenance progression vacancy will, based on service at date of entry, maintain his job class and rate in accordance with the schedule below to a maximum of Job Class 18 until such time as his progression rate becomes greater, at which time his rate shall be increased to the progression rate. For the purpose of this Article, “production employee” is defined as meaning any employee who is not already in a Maintenance Line of Progression.
1)	Less than one year of service - appropriate progression rate
2)	One but less than two years’ service - 8 job classes below employee’s base rate
3)	Two but less than three years’ service - 6 job classes below employee’s base rate
58
4)	Three but less than five years’ service - 4 job classes below employee’s base rate
5)	Over five years’ service - 2 job classes below employee’s base rate
6)	Seven (7) or more years’ service will maintain his job class and the appropriate rate.
EXHIBIT 1 • STANDARD HOURLY WAGE SCALES
Base Rates
Increment = 45.0f YEAR 1
Increment s 46.0* Increment = 47.0* YEAR 2	YEAR 3
(effective May 1/97)
Job Class
20	23.77
19	23.32
18	22.87
17	22.42
16	21.97
15	21.52
14	21.07
13	20.62
12	20.17
11	19.72
10	19.27
9	18.82
8	18.37
7	17.92
6	17.47
5	17.02
4	16.57
3	16.12
2	15.67
1	15.22
(effective May 1/98)
24.32
23.86
23.40
22.94
22.48
22.02
21.56
21.10
20.64
20.18
19.72
19.26
18.80
18.34
17.88
17.42
16.96
16.50
16.04
15.58
(effective May 1/99)
25.00
24.53
24.06 23.59 23.12 22.65 22.18 21.71 21.24 20.77 20.30 19.83 19.36 18.89 18.42 17.95 17.48
17.01
16.54
16.07
59
APPRENTICES		
TYadt Time (Months)	Classification	■lob Class
42-48	Maintenance Man IA	17
36-42	Maintenance Man I	15
30-36	Maintenance Man IIA	13
24-30	Maintenance Man II	11
18-24	Maintenance Man IIIA	9
12-18	Maintenance Man III	7
6-12	Maintenance Man IV	5
0-6	Maintenance Helper	3
EXHIBIT 1 ■ FOOTNOTES
1)	An Underground premium as specified in Article 8.05 will be added to the base rates as appropriate.
2)	Job Classifications and Assignments are specified in the following exhibits, and pay for the applicable Job Class will be as indicated.
3)	Licensed Journeyman - those Journeymen holding
valid Saskatchewan Licenses and/or Certificates of Journeyman Status in and working in the following assignments:
Shift Engineer 1 (1st or 2nd Class Stationary Engineer’s Certificate)
Electrician (1st Class including “Restricted”)
High Pressure Welder (all positions)
Industrial Mechanic Machinist
Gas Fitter (1st Class - only one employee)
Auto Mechanic
Heavy Duty Mechanic
Welder
Pipe Fitter
Carpenter
Instrumentman
(An employee claiming the Licensed Journeyman rate will be required to present his License and/or 60
Certificate of Journeyman Status for verification of his entitlement to the rate. The effective date of the rate will be the effective date of the Agreement or the day the actual license or certificate is presented if after that date.)
4)	Licensed Journeyman High Pressure Welders will receive a premium of 25 <t per hour, for each hour they actually perform high pressure welding duties.
EXHIBIT 2 - LINES OF PROGRESSION (MINE OPERATING DEPARTMENT)
.lob Class	Job Class	Job Class
18 Miner Operator (1)	17 Shaftman (4) , 16 Hoistman (4,71
r~	—i
13 *Skiptender (2,31 13 * C a g e r (2,31
12 Car/Haulaee Operator (31
10 *UtilitI Man/Bridqe Helper (91
6 Utility Man (81
3 Labourer ja	14. Construction Man JS
14* Equipment Operator (6) 11 “Ventman (21
10 *Service Operator I iD 8 *Service Operator II i?)
8 *Scaler (2)
*Bid level assignment
The numbers in brackets 0 indicate reference to the footnotes
61
EXHIBIT 2 - FOOTNOTES
1)	Following 1500 hours satisfactory performance in the Miner Operator classification, the employee will receive the rate for Job Class 19, subject to the provisions of Article 10.24. For purposes of Article 15.03, this one job class will be considered a premium and the Miner Operator Job Class will be Job Class 18.
2)	Temporary vacancies in the Skiptender assignment will normally be filled by the senior employee on the same shift who is in the Car/Haulage Operator or Utility Man/Bridge Helper assignments, as per Article 10.06.
Temporary vacancies in the Cager assignment will normally be filled by the senior Service Operator I on the same shift and as per Article 10.06.
Temporary vacancies in the Scaler, Ventman, Service Operator I and Service Operator II assignments will normally be filled in accordance with Article 10.06.
3)	Subject to Article 10.24, a successful bidder to a Skiptender, Cager or Car/Haulage vacancy, who is from outside the Department, will train for a period of 250 hours at a rate two job classes below the rate for the job.
4)	Permanent Shaftman and Hoistman vacancies which cannot be filled from those assignments or the Cager or Skiptender assignments, will be posted for plantwide bidding as per Article 10. Temporary vacancies for the Shaftman classification will be filled in accordance with Article 10.06 by first considering Departmental Seniority and qualifications of employees on the Mine Day Crew.
5)	A Labourer will be promoted to the Utility Man classi-
fication following 500 hours worked and satisfactory performance in the job. If the employee is not assigned to shift work at that time, a Utility Man vacancy for day shift will be posted. This procedure shall not be applied so as to permanently fill all positions in the area, thereby blocking training assignments.
62
6)	Employees classified in the Equipment Operator, Service Operator or Construction Man classification will be deemed eligible for permanent vacancies in the Loader/Bridge or Miner Operator classifications when it next becomes vacant on the basis of Departmental Seniority of all eligible candidates. Training will be in accordance with Article 10.09.
7)	Hoistmen who came from the Plant Maintenance Department will continue to accumulate Plant Maintenance Department Seniority. (Also see Footnote (7), Exhibit 5.)
8)	Occasional operation of forklifts, tractors, trucks and other minor equipment is common to the Utility Man classification and upgrade rates will not apply unless the employee is assigned to fill a vacancy resulting from the absence of another employee in a higher job classification. Operation of the bobcat or water truck for continuous periods in excess of 2 hours will be eligible for upgrade to Job Class 8 as per Article 8.28.
9)	A Utility Man who is promoted to the Utility Man/Bridge Helper classification will receive the Utility Man/Bridge Helper rate following 250 hours worked in the new classification and satisfactory performance in the job. Occasional operation of the scooptram, is common to the Utilityman Bridgehelper classification and upgrade rates will not apply unless the employee is assigned to fill a vacancy resulting from the absence of another employee in a higher job classification. Operation of the scooptram, for continuous periods in excess of 2 hours will be eligible for upgrade to Job Class 12 as per Article 8.28.
63
EXHIBIT 3 - LINES OF PROGRESSION (MINE
MAINTENANCE)
Job Class
?n Licens	ed .lournevman HI
1ft Joume	yman
17 Maint	.nance Man ia (21
15 Maint	(nance Man I (21
Maint	pnance Man HA (T\
11 Maint	2nance Man II (2)
9 Maint	enan ce Man IIIA (21
7 Maint	enance Man III (2\
n 5 Maintenance Man IV (2)	
3 *Maiti	tenance Heloer (2)
3 laboi	rer
*Bid level assignment
The numbers in brackets () indicate reference to the footnotes. 64
EXHIBIT 3 ■ FOOTNOTES
1)	A Journeyman assigned to his trade and who possesses a valid Saskatchewan and recognized Journeyman License will receive the rate for the Licensed Journeyman Classification as below:
Recognized Journeyman Licenses in the Department are:
Electrician (including “Restricted”)
Heavy Duty Mechanic
Industrial Mechanic
High Pressure Welder (all positions)
Welder
2)	An employee in the Maintenance Line of Progression will normally remain at each step for at least six months. Progression after the completion of each training period is dependent upon demonstration of qualifications as evidenced by performance and examination. However, a Maintenance Man IA who has obtained a Saskatchewan Journeyman’s License and/or Certificate of his trade and is working in that trade, will be promoted to the Licensed Journeyman Classification without having to take an examination given by the Company.
3)	In as much as operational requirements permit, any Licensed Journeyman Electrician that is hired for or transferred to the mine will be assigned to the Electrical Shop crew for a maximum of one month and then be assigned to shift work for further familiarization and training.
4)	When Production employees are awarded vacancies in
maintenance progression, including apprenticeship, their base rate will be adjusted as per Article 15.03.
5)	A Maintenance employee who is required to miss scheduled work time in order to write the journeyman’s examination for his trade, and who passes such
65
examination, and obtains his Licensed Journeyman Status, will be paid up to eight hours at his base rate at the time of writing, for the scheduled work time missed.
6)	Welders who pass their examinations for licensed status will, upon approval of the Company, be reimbursed for applicable fees and materials used.
EXHIBIT 4 - LINES OF PROGRESSION (MILL)
Job Class
Crystallizer Op (4) Compaction Op (4) Quality Op(4)
16 Operator
6	Utilityman 131
3	Labourer M
*Bid Level Assignment
The numbers in brackets () indicate reference to the footnotes.
EXHIBIT 4 ■ FOOTNOTES
1)	A Labourer will normally be promoted to the Utilityman classification following 500 hours worked and satisfactory performance in the job.
2)	Occasional operation of trucks, forklifts, tractors and other minor equipment is common to the Utilityman classification and upgrade rates will not apply. Operation of the bobcat for continuous periods in excess of 2 hours will be eligible for upgrading to Job Class 8 as per Article 8.28.
3)	Employees assigned to the Utilityman classification will be trained as Mill Operators in order to provide
66
necessary filling of Operator vacancies as may be required from time to time due to vacation, illness or other short-term absences, such employees will receive Job Class 8 once they are trained and able to replace a Mill Operator for short-term absences.
4)	An employee promoted from Utilityman to a Mill Operator classification will receive the rate of Job Class 16 subject to Article 10.09. For each area skill acquired, after 9 months in the area will receive a skill premium of 1 Job Class. Therefore a Mill Operator who has completed all 3 areas will receive the rate of Job Class 19. Job skill premiums do not become part of an employee’s base rate except when the employee has been accepted on a bid for an apprenticeship vacancy in a maintenance department.
EXHIBIT 5 - LINES OF PROGRESSION
(PLANT MAINTENANCE)
Job Class	Job Class
20 Licensed^ Journeyman Cl.2.41 18 Journeyman 141
Maintena	ice Man 1 C61
Mainten	ance Man IIA 16)
Mainten	ince Man II (6)
7	Maintenance	Man -HI (61
I
5	Maintenance	Man IV (61
3	*Maintenance	Helper (61
12 Equipment Operator I U41 11 Equipment Operator II (131 8 *Equipment Operator III (121
6 Utility Man (121
3 Labourer (111
*Bid level assignment
The numbers in brackets () indicate reference to the footnotes.
68
EXHIBIT 5 • FOOTNOTES
1)	A Journeyman assigned to his trade and who possesses a valid Saskatchewan and recognized Journeyman License will receive the rate for the Licensed Journeyman Classification, as below:
2)	Recognized Journeyman Licenses in the Department
are:
Electrician (including “Restricted”)
Heavy Duty Mechanic
Industrial Mechanic
High Pressure Welder (all positions)
Auto Mechanic Machinist
Gas Fitter (1st class, only one employee)
1st and 2nd Class Stationary Engineer Certificate
Welder
Pipe Fitter
Carpenter
Instrumentman
3)	Shift Engineers:
Shift Engineer I
•	must hold a valid Saskatchewan 1st or 2nd Class Stationary Engineer’s Certificate
Shift Engineer II
•	must hold a valid Saskatchewan 3rd Class Stationary Engineer’s Certificate with a 2nd Class Permit from the Department of Labour.
4)	The job classification for the Journeyman Painter/Blaster is Job Class 16. Bid level is at Job Class 5 and progression will normally be at 6 month intervals through Job Classes 7, 9, 11,13 and 15, before promotion to Job Class 16.
5)	An employee in the Maintenance Line of Progression
will normally remain at each step for at least six months. Progression after the completion of each
69
training period is dependent upon demonstration of qualifications as evidenced by performance and examination. However, a Maintenance Man IA who has obtained a Saskatchewan Journeyman’s License and/or Certificate in his trade and is working in that trade, will be promoted to the applicable Licensed Journeyman Classification without having to write and pass an examination given by the Company.
6)	When production employees are awarded vacancies in maintenance progression, including apprenticeship, their base rate will be adjusted as per Article 15.03.
7)	Hoistmen who come from the Plant Maintenance Department will continue to accumulate Plant Maintenance Department Seniority. (Also see Footnote 7 Exhibit 2).
8)	A Maintenance employee who is required to miss scheduled work time in order to write the Journeyman’s examination for his trade, and who passes such examination and obtains his Licensed Journeyman Status, will be paid up to eight hours pay at his base rate at the time of writing for the scheduled work time missed.
9)	Welders who pass their examinations for licensed status will, upon approval by the Company, be reimbursed for applicable fees and material used.
10)	A Labourer normally progresses to the Utility Man Classification following 500 hours worked and satisfactory performance on the job.
11)	Occasional operation of trucks, forklifts, tractors and other minor equipment is common to the Utility Man Classification and upgrade rates will not apply unless the employee is assigned to fill a vacancy created by the absence of an Equipment Operator III. Operation of the bobcat for continuous periods in excess of 2 hours will be eligible for upgrading to Job Class 8, as per Article 8.28.
70
12)	An Equipment Operator III must be qualified to efficiently operate bobcats, forklifts, trucks, tractors and other minor equipment on Surface and be regularly assigned to this equipment for continuous daily periods in excess of 2 hours. An Equipment Operator III who is qualified to efficiently operate a major unit of equipment in a higher job classification will be eligible for upgrade as per Article 8.28 when he operates such equipment.
13)	An Equipment Operator II must be qualified to efficiently operate all mobile equipment used on Surface except graders and hoisting vehicle (P&H Omega) and be regularly assigned to this equipment. An Equipment Operator II who is fully qualified to efficiently operate a major unit of equipment in a higher job classification will be eligible for upgrade as per Article 8.28 when he operates such equipment.
14)	An Equipment Operator I must be qualified to efficiently operate all mobile equipment used on Surface and be regularly assigned to this equipment.
EXHIBIT 6 - LINES OF PROGRESSION
(LOADOUT)
.lob Class
14 Scaler<j>om Operator 11 Loadout Operator 8	*Car Loader
6	Utility |vtan (2)
3 La bo u re r ('ll
*Bid level assignment
The numbers in brackets () indicate reference to the footnotes.
71
FOOTNOTES
1)	Labourer normally progresses to Utility Man following 500 hours worked and satisfactory performance.
2)	Occasional operation of trucks, forklifts, tractors and other minor equipment is common to the Utility Man Classification, and upgrade rates will not apply. Operation of the bobcat for continuous periods in excess of 2 hours will be eligible for upgrading to Job Class 8 as per Article 8.28.
EXHIBIT 7 - WAREHOUSE LINES OF
PROGRESSION
Mine Warehouseman CJob Class 131	Warehouseman (Job Class 121
(Mine Warehouse Attendant CJob Class 111*	(1) Warehouse Attendant fJob Class 101* HI
	
Labourer (Job Class 31
* Bid level assignment
The numbers in brackets 0 indicate reference to the footnotes.
FOOTNOTES
1)	Subject to the provisions of Article 10.24, entry to the Warehouse Attendant position will be at Job Class 8. Following satisfactory performance and 500 hours worked at the rate for Job Class 8, the employee will advance to Job Class 9 for an additional training period of 500 hours worked. At the completion of these training periods, the employee will receive the full rate for the job.
2)	Subject to the provisions of Article 10.24, entry to the Underground Warehouse Attendant position will be at Job Class 9. Following satisfactory performance and 500 hours worked at the rate for Job Class 9, the
72
employee will advance to Job Class 10 for an additional training period of 500 hours worked. At the completion of these training periods, the employee will receive the full rate for the job.
EXHIBIT 7 ■ LABORATORY LINES OF PROGRESSION
Analyst 1 Metallurgical Technician_
*Anj>lvstHa.21 Labourer
* Bid level assignment
The numbers in brackets 0 indicate reference to the footnotes.
FOOTNOTES
1)	An Analyst II must have successfully completed Grade XII Chemistry and Mathematics.
2)	A successful bidder to Analyst II who is from outside the Line of Progression will train at the rate for Job Class 10 for a period of 250 hours, subject to the provisions of Article 10.24.
EXHIBIT 8 - APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
1)	Apprenticeship vacancies as determined by the Company shall be filled in accordance with the job posting provisions of Article 10 of the Agreement.
2)	Employees who are indentured will be given leaves of absence in order to attend formal training in accordance with the number and types of courses offered and the ability of the Company to meet its normal requirements of operation.
73
Job
14
12
3
3)	Employees who are indentured will enter the program at a level based on their qualifications as determined by the Apprenticeship Branch, Saskatchewan Department of Labour.
4)	Apprenticed employees, while taking an off-site training course, will be paid during their training the difference between the employee’s basic straight time rate excluding premium pay or differentials, and his training allowance pay received from Government sources. The Apprentice upon completion of the course must present his marks and cheque stubs showing his training allowance received for verification of the pay he was entitled to receive from the Company. In the event the Apprentice failed to pass the course he will not be paid any makeup wages by the Company when he repeats the course.
5)	Any Government “living away from home” allowance received by the Apprentice while on a training course will not be deducted in any calculation made by the Company in order to determine the basis of Company monetary assistance during apprenticeship training.
6)	Apprenticeship wages will be as shown in Exhibit 1.
7)	An Apprentice will only move to the next pay rate after having successfully completed the course as prescribed by the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch, or after having completed the required months of experience,
8)	In the event an Apprentice, while on a course, is excused from attendance, as shown on his course report, and received his full wage allowance from the Government program, he may also receive his full allowance from the Company. If the Apprentice is not excused from attendance he shall receive no wage allowance.
9)	An Apprentice may be removed from the Apprenticeship Program and his apprenticeship contract cancelled for any of the following reasons:
74
a)	Just cause.
b)	If an Apprentice fails to take the training course when he is scheduled to take same, provided that his failure to take such course is not due to a cause beyond his control or the Company has agreed to a change in scheduled training.
c)	If an Apprentice fails a training course at any one
level on more than one occasion.
10)	When an employee from the Maintenance area is indentured, his regular hourly rate will be maintained until such time as his Apprentice rate level becomes greater than his regular rate at which time his rate shall be increased to the apprenticeship rate.
11)	When Production employees are awarded vacancies in maintenance progression, including apprenticeship, their base rate will be adjusted as per Article 15.03.
12)	The provisions of the Apprenticeship Program will also apply to a Licensed Journeyman who takes additional training to maintain or upgrade his Licensed Journeyman Status providing such training is approved by the Company.
13)	The Company will pay travelling allowance to Apprentices for one trip home from S.T.I., Moose Jaw, per week at a rate 25# per kilometre. Whenever possible, car pool arrangements should be used. The Government travel allowance will be considered as paying for one trip during the period of attendance at the training course.
EXHIBIT 9 - SUMMARY OF CORY HOURLY BENEFIT PLANS
The following is a brief summary of the benefit plans. The official policy for each plan states the exact terms and conditions of the plan and will be the governing factor whenever a question arises.
75
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE Eligibility
-	coverage will be effective from the first day of employment for permanent full-time, temporary and summer student hourly employees.
Benefit
-	two times annual base earnings payable in the event of death.
-	Dependent Life Insurance as follows:
Spouse:	$4,000.00
Eligible Dependent: $4,000.00
cost
-	the entire cost of this benefit is paid for by the Company.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE Eligibility
-	coverage will be effective from the first day of employment for permanent full-time, temporary, and summer student hourly employees.
Benefit
-	two times annual base salary (or portion thereof,); coverage on a 24 hour basis.
cost
-	the entire cost of this benefit is paid for by the Company.
PERSONAL DISABILITY PLANS
The following plans cover non-occupational sickness and accident disabilities:
A. Paid Disability Leave of Absence
Employees are paid their normal base wage for up to the number of regularly scheduled hours in that day as per their weekly work schedule whether it be 8, 10 or 12 hours for personal disability on the following basis:
76
Benefit - Full Years of Continuous Service in the Calendar Year Paid Hours in That Calendar Yean
-	these hours are for routine disability and also cover time spent for routine examinations (medical, dental, eye).
-	a medical certificate or verification may be requested before payment is made.
-	unused hours will be accumulated from year to year and must be used to cover the waiting period prior to commencement of Short Term Disability Insurance. (Employees may also use any additional hours accumulated prior to claiming S.T.D. benefits.)
-	the entire cost of this benefit is paid for by the Company.
B. Short Term Disability
Eligibility
-	all full-time hourly employees on the first day of active employment.
Benefit
-	70% of normal weekly earnings. (Normal weekly earnings equals base hourly rate times the normal hours in the employee’s work week.)
-	is fixed at the level of benefits the employee was eligible for at the time of disability.
-	medical verification will be required in order to receive this benefit.
Less than 1 year
2 hrs for each complete month
1	year
2	years
3	years
4	years
5	years
6	or more years
cost
77
-	NOTE: Any dispute as to the medical eligibility of such benefit entitlement is between the employee and the insurance company which adjudicates the disability claim.
Commences
-	After 24 hours of consecutive scheduled work time of disability or later, if the employee chooses to use more accumulated sick days, and continues for a maximum duration of 17 weeks of disability.
cost
-	the entire cost of this benefit is paid for by the Company.
C. Lone Term Disability
Eligibility
-	all full-time hourly employees on the first day of active employment.
Benefit
-	70% of normal base monthly earnings (base hourly rate times normal hours worked per month).
-	this benefit is offset by any other disability plan you may be entitled to (with the exception of personal, private plans, if any).
-	increased amounts only applicable to disabilities commencing after the effective date of the increase.
-	NOTE: Any dispute as to the medical eligibility of
such benefit entitlement is between the employee and the insurance company which adjudicates the disability claim.
Commences
-	after 17 weeks of disability and continues until recovery, death or age 65, whichever occurs first.
-	after an employee receives Long Term Disability benefits for 24 months his medical status will be reviewed and benefit payments can only be con-
78
tinued if the employee is unable to do any work for which he is reasonably qualified by education, experience and/or training.
cost
- the entire cost of this benefit is paid for by the Company.
MEDICAL CARE
Eligibility
-	all full-time hourly employees and eligible dependents are covered from the first day of active employment of the employee.
Benefit
-	Medical Services Incorporated
-	Eligible medical costs as outlined in the contract between MSI, Blue Cross and PCS Inc. Cory Division will be paid at a level of benefits of 80% of allowable expenses.
-	The Company’s responsibility is to maintain the designated level of benefit coverages, as outlined in the contract between MSI, Blue Cross and PCS Inc., Cory Division as in effect on the date of ratification.
cost
-	the entire cost of this benefit is paid for by the Company.
VISION CARE
Eligibility
-	all full-time hourly employees and eligible dependents are covered from the first day of active employment of the employee.
Benefit
-	Medical Services Incorporated
-	80% of the cost of one pair of employee’s frames and
lenses (or contact lenses) up to a maximum of
79
$100.00 per person in any 24 month period (12 months for dependant children under 18). Tinted glasses and sunglasses are excluded.
cost
-	the entire cost of this benefit is paid for by the Company.
DENTAL CARE Eligibility
-	all full-time hourly employees and eligible dependents are covered from the first day of active employment of the employee.
Treatment Plan
-	before starting any course of treatment in excess of $200.00 it is strongly recommended you have your dentist prepare a “treatment plan”, a written report describing his recommendations as to the necessary cost and treatment.
-	by following this procedure you will know in advance the expenses covered by this plan and the expenses for which you will be responsible.
Benefit
-	the plan pays 100% of preventative dental expenses which include:
-oral examination, including scaling and cleaning of teeth, once every six months
-	topical application of sodium and stannous fluoride
-	dental x-rays
-	the plan pays 80% of basic dental expenses which include:
-	extractions and fillings
-	oral surgery
-	anaesthetics, in connection with covered dental services
-	periodontal treatment (treatment of the gums)
80
-	endodontic treatment (root canals)
-	space maintainers
-	injections of antibiotic drugs by the dentist
-	crowns (initial placement and repair and recementing)
-	repair, recementing or relining of dentures
-	initial installation of partial or full removable dentures to replace one or more natural teeth extracted while the family member is covered, and adjustments to such dentures (separate charges for adjustments will only be included if they are incurred more than three months after the initial installation)
-	replacement of an existing partial or full removable denture by a new denture, or the addition of teeth to an existing partial removable denture to replace extracted natural teeth, but only if:
a)	the replacement or addition of teeth is required to replace one or more additional natural teeth extracted after the existing denture was installed and while the family member is covered; or
b)	the existing denture was installed at least five years prior to its replacement and the existing denture could not be made serviceable; or
c)	the existing denture is an immediate temporary denture replacing one or more natural teeth extracted while the family member is covered and replacement by a permanent denture is required and takes place within 12 months from the date of installation of the immediate temporary denture.
- the plan pays 50% of the major dental expenses
which include:
-	gold fillings and initial installation of fixed bridge-work to replace one or more natural teeth extracted while the family member is covered;
81
-	repair or recementing of bridgework;
-	orthodontia, including correction of malocclusion;
-	replacement of existing fixed bridgework by new bridgework or the addition of teeth to existing bridgework to replace extracted natural teeth, but only if:
a)	the replacement or addition of teeth is required to replace one or more additional natural teeth extracted after the existing bridgework was installed, and while the family member is covered; or
b)	the existing bridgework was installed at least five years prior to its replacement and that the existing cannot be made serviceable.
NOTE: The maximum benefit paid in any one calendar year for the employee or any one of his/her covered dependents, is $1,500.00.
RETIREMENT PLAN Eligibility
-	all hourly employees.
Benefit
-	thirty-seven dollars ($37.00) per month per year of service including past service for employees who retire on or after May 1,1998.
-	increase pension to forty dollars ($40.00) per month per year of service effective May 1,1998.
-	increase pension to forty-three dollars ($43.00) per month per year of service effective May, 1,1999.
-	increase pension to forty-four dollars ($44.00) per month per year of service effective April 30,2000.
-	compulsory retirement date is the first day of the month coinciding with or otherwise next following an employee’s 65th birthday.
-	an employee may retire any time after reaching age
82
55 if he/she has completed at least 10 years of continuous service. By so doing, the retirement benefit is reduced by 1/2 of 1% for each month that retirement precedes his/her normal retirement date.
-	full vesting after two years of continuous service or when age plus service equals 45 (with the minimum of one year of continuous service or membership in the plan) whichever occurs first.
-	an employee may retire without any reduction in his/her retirement benefit when he/she has completed at least 30 years of continuous service and is at least 60 years of age.
-	an employee who is at least 55 years of age or older and whose age plus service equal 75 or who is less than 55 years of age and whose age plus service equal 80 may retire with an unreduced retirement benefit if laid off because of lack of work.
-	if an employee dies before retirement (while still employed by the Company) after age 55 and with at least 10 years of continuous service, the spousal benefit will be actuarily calculated on the basis of a joint pension as if the employee had elected early retirement the day before his death.
-	if an employee dies before age 55 and is vested, the spousal benefit will be the commuted value of an actuarily reduced pension payable to the surviving spouse if the member retired at the date of death and elected a 60% joint and survivor option.
-	NOTE: The Company shall fund and administer the Plan and shall make reports to the Union when requested.
cost
-	the entire cost of this benefit is paid for by the Company.
83
GENERAL
1)	Any misuse or abuse of the foregoing benefits may result in the termination of employment.
2)	The Company will continue to pay the full cost of premiums on the foregoing plans when an employee is receiving Short Term Disability benefits and the premiums will be paid on the following basis when the employee is:
-	On approved leave of absence (other than disability leave of absence). The Company pays the entire premiums for 30 days from the date the leave commenced, and the employee pays the entire premiums for the duration of his leave (maximum of 11 months). By mutual agreement, between the Company and the employee, benefits (excluding pension) may be extended beyond one year.
-	Sick days are “frozen” as of the date the leave commences, and the entitlement for the year will be prorated based on months of actual service during such year.
-	Pensionable service is accumulated (up to a one year maximum) while on Union Office Leave of Absence.
-	Receiving Long Term Disability benefits: The Long Term and Group Life premiums are waived and the coverage will remain at the level which was in effect on the date the employee last worked. The employee may pay the cost of premiums for all other benefits.
-	On Maternity Leave: The employee may pay the cost of all benefit premiums.
3)	All benefits cease at the end of the month in which the
employee’s employment with the Company terminates (voluntary termination or discharge).
4)	In the case of layoff, the benefits continue for 3 full months following the month in which the employee was laid off.
84
5)	An employee who is leaving the Company’s employ may convert his/her Group Life and/or Long Term Disability Insurance to his/her personal policy by directly contacting a representative or the insurance company within 31 days of his/her termination.
Optional Insurance:
Employees may apply for either the optional group term life insurance and/or the voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance which is currently available. The effective date of such coverage will be as per the conditions specified in each of the plans. Premiums are paid by the employee through payroll deduction. In case of layoff or other absence without pay premiums must be prepaid to maintain coverage.
MISCELLANEOUS
1)	For Leaves of Absence requested under Article 5.04 the Company agrees to pay the employee his base wages for the scheduled work time missed and bill the Union for that amount plus 10%. This is conditional upon having received a written request for the leave from the Union, which also states the Company is authorized to bill the Union.
2)	Subject to Article 6.10, for Christmas, Boxing and New Year’s Day, the Company will poll the employees involved to determine the numbers that are willing to work. Where practical, other employees will be utilized and crews reduced in order to accommodate those who do not wish to work on those days.
3)	Recognizing that absentee problems could cause cancellation of the 10 hour or 12 hour compressed work week schedules, the Union and employees agree to establish a voluntary call-board system for replacing absent employees should the situation warrant such action.
85
Employees will indicate whether they are available to be on call during their days off by listing their names and phone numbers on the call-board. An employee who indicates that he is available for call-outs and who fails to report for such call-out work will be considered to be on an unexcused absence. It is also agreed that should the call-board system prove to be unsuccessful in that no employees are available for call outs the affected compressed work week schedule will be cancelled given seven days notice from the Company.
4)	As far as is reasonably practicable, employees scheduled on the 10 hour and 12 hour work schedules will schedule medical, dental and business appointments to coincide with their regular days off. This will also apply to medicals required by the Company.
5)	It is also agreed and understood that excessive overtime costs incurred by the Company will be just cause for cancellation of the compressed work week schedules.
6)	It is further agreed that the 10 hour and 12 hour day compressed work week schedules should provide benefits for the Company and the employees. At the same time it is also recognized that the Ten Hour Day or Twelve Hour Day should not increase costs or be used by employees to gain financially.
7)	It is also agreed that the various modifications to relevant articles within this collective agreement for the purpose of accommodating the 10 hour or 12 hour day compressed work week schedules are subject to modification or amendment should the parties recognize that some of the changes are not desirable and should be modified or dropped and that other clauses may require modification.
8)	The Company, Employees and the Union agree to cooperate fully in the successful implementation and operation of the compressed work week schedules.
86
However, the parties also agree that either the Company or the Union may terminate the compressed work week schedules within seven days notice if it is believed to be unsatisfactory to either party.
9)	The parties further understand that the Company reserves the right to schedule all of its employees on an eight hour day schedule whenever it is deemed that an emergency exists.
87
Signed this 2nd day of April ,1998
UNITED STEELWORKERS	POTASH CORPORATION OF
OF AMERICA	SASKATCHEWAN INC.
C.L.C. AND ITS LOCAL 7458
(originals signed by those indicated)
B. WELKE
INTERNATIONAL
REPRESENTATIVE
W.M. PEDDIE
DIRECTOR,
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS

B. MEDERNACH
PRESIDENT, LOCAL 7458
NEGOTIATING
M/KUIACK
REPRESENTATIVE MINE PRODUCTION
K.W. MENZIES
HUMAN RESOURCES SUPERINTENDENT
REPRESENTATIVE SURFACE PRODUCTION
MINE GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT
P. CHERNETSKY
REPRESENTATIVE,PLANT MAINTENANCE
B. WEIR
REPRESENTATIVE, MINE MAINTENANCE
88
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN, INC., CORY DIVISION AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS’ OF AMERICA,
CLC, LOCAL 7458
The parties hereby agree that for the duration of this agreement Article 7.14 will read as follows:
Temporary employees may be hired for periods not to exceed 150 calendar days in any 365 day period effective May 1, 1997. Temporary employees who exceed this period of work will acquire full seniority rights and will be entitled to recall rights as outlined in Article 11.04(e). Temporary employees will also be entitled to dental, medical, vision, group life, and AD&D insurance coverages for all periods of temporary employment. Employees who exceed the 150 days employment in any 365 day period will also be entitled to receive paid sick hours at a rate of 2 hours for every 160 hours worked to a maximum of 24 paid sick hours in that calendar year.
The Company will offer temporary work to any permanent employee who may be laid off and eligible for recall. Such laid-off employees may accept or reject temporary work for the Company without in any way affecting their recall rights. If however, there are no permanent employees on the recall list then any temporary work will be offered to any temporary employees who are eligible for recall. Such employees may reject work for periods of up to one month’s duration without in any way affecting their recall rights. The hiring of temporary employees is subject to the following limitations:
a)	Temporary employees shall be classified and compensated on the same basis as permanent employees; however, they will only acquire seniority rights as provided below.
b)	Temporary employees who may be accepted as permanent employees by the Company shall, upon their acceptance and completion
89
thereafter of their 45 working day probationary period, acquire full seniority rights retroactive to their last date of hire as temporary employees. Temporary employees who have worked 90 consecutive days or a combination of work periods totalling 150 days in a 365 day period shall be accepted as permanent employees with full seniority rights retroactive to the last date of hire as a temporary employee and shall be deemed to have served their probationary period.
c)	Temporary employees shall not displace permanent employees from their regular classifications.
d)	Temporary employees who have demonstrated to the Company that they are qualified candidates will be given preference for permanent employment.
This agreement expires April 30, 2000.
Dated this 15th day of January , 1998.
For the Union:
For the Company:
(originals signed by
B. Welke
International Representative
those indicated)
B. Medernach	K. Menzies
President, Local 7458	Human Resources
Superintendent
90
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN, INC., CORY DIVISION
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, C.L.C., LOCAL 7458
The Company hereby agrees to deduct one cent ($0.01) per hour from the wages of all employees in the bargaining unit and within two weeks (2) following such deduction, pay the amount so deducted to the “Humanity Fund” by forwarding said deductions to:
United Steelworkers of America, CLC, Local 7458 #200 - 3311 Fairlight Drive Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7M 3Y5
It should be noted that all employees' deductions are voluntary and may be cancelled at any time, providing the Company receives two weeks notice of such cancellation.
Dated this 15th day of January . 1998.
This Agreement expires April 30, 2000, or until a new Agreement is signed.
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
C.L.C. AND ITS LOCAL 7458
POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN CORY DIVISION
B. Medemach
President, Local 7458
K. Menzies
Human Resources Superintendent
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN, INC., CORY DIVISION AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, C.L.C., LOCAL 7458
The parties agree the provisions of this Memorandum of Agreement, when applied, supersede Article 8.08(a), 8.16(b), or any other provisions, which may be deemed to be in conflict.
It is agreed, for the life of the new Collective Agreement the following provisions will apply:
When a public holiday falls on an employee’s scheduled day off, the Company may schedule another day off without pay during the pay period in which the public holiday falls. In such an event, shortened work week overtime will not be paid regardless of which week in the pay period the other day off is scheduled.
However, when the Company chooses to schedule another day off as above, it shall be consecutive with the employee’s other scheduled days off in the pay period, and unless the holiday falls during an operating cycle the day off will be scheduled to tie in with the holiday weekend.
Notwithstanding Article 6.09, if another day off is scheduled the pay for the public holiday, as above, will be the greater of base rate times 8 hours or times the hours which would have been scheduled on the other day Off.
The Company will post a weekly work schedule on the Monday prior to the start of the work week, and such will indicate the scheduling of another day off, if any.
This Agreement will expire April 30, 2000, or until a new Agreement is signed.
Dated this 15th day of January . 1998.
92
UNITED STEELWORKERS	POTASH CORPORATION OF
OF AMERICA	SASKATCHEWAN, INC.
C.L.C. AND ITS LOCAL 7458S	CORY DIVISION
(originals signed by those indicated)
B. Welke
International Representative

B. Medemach
President, Local 7458
Human Resources Superintendent
93
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN, INC., CORY DIVISION AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, C.L.C., LOCAL 7458
This letter of intent is designed for the purpose of re-affirming the basic principles of the Cooperative Wage Study Program (referred to as C.W.S.). This re-affirmation is necessary because of recent trends within the workforce that employees feel that C.W.S. is to be used as a detailed job description used to determine one’s day-to-day job duties.
The following principles are statements cited from the Job Description and Classification Manual published in August 1971 by the United Steelworkers of America - AFL - CIO CLC:
A.	Significant details concerning the function and requirements of each job shall be set forth in a job description which shall:
Provide a means of identifying the job under consideration, the processes, equipment, and products with which it is concerned, and shall serve only as a basis from which to classify the job.
Reflect the general details considered necessary to describe the principal functions of the job identified and shall not be construed as a detailed description of all the work requirements that may be inherent in the job.
Provide, together with the reasons for the classification, the basis from which to judge changes in the job content which may result from new or changed conditions when such are established from time to time.
B.	The job classification of a job shall serve only to assign the job into a proper job class for application of the standard hourly wage scale.
In summary, these principles outlined are designed solely for the purposes of determining wage rates and not to provide any basis for determining the day-to-day job activities of any individual employee. Referring to the term “inherent” as outlined on the bottom of each job
94
description, this term is defined as: Job duties that have been common to a particular job prior to the implementation of C.W.S., whether they were specifically addressed in the job description or not, shall continue to be part of that particular job.
This Agreement will expire April 30, 2000, or until a new Agreement is signed.
Dated this 15th dav of January . 1998.
UNITED STEELWORKERS	POTASH CORPORATION OF
OF AMERICA	SASKATCHEWAN	INC.,
C.L.C. AND ITS LOCAL 7458	CORY DIVISION
(originals signed by those indicated)
B. Welke
International Representative
B. Medemach
President, Local 7458
Human Resources Superintendent
95
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN, INC., CORY DIVISION AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, C.L.C., LOCAL 7458
Pursuant to Article 6.05 (c) it is agreed that for the 1998 and 1999 vacation year, in anticipation of a vacation shutdown, the Company will pay out all outstanding vacation monies earned up to and including May 30th of each year for the life of this Agreement.
This payout will occur on June 30th of each year for the life of this Agreement.
Manpower requirements and scheduling of vacation will be in accordance with Article 6.05 (a). Employees will be required to take their vacation allotment prior to June 30th of each year. Those who do not schedule their vacation will have it scheduled by the Company given one (1) month's notice.
This Agreement will expire April 30, 2000, or until a new Agreement is signed.
Dated this 15th dav of January . 1998.
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
C.L.C. AND ITS LOCAL 7458
POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC., CORY DIVISION
B. Welke
International Representative
Gener^HWanager

B. Medernach
President, Local 7458
K. Menzies
Human Resources Superintendent
96
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN, INC., CORY DIVISION AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, C.L.C., LOCAL 7458
It is recognized by the parties that, with the present 8 - 6 work schedule, some employees may miss seeing job postings in time to bid on posted jobs because they are on days off for six consecutive days and the required time for posting per Article 10.13 of the Collective Agreement is six days.
The Company agrees that it will select posting dates for job vacancies so that no production employee will be deprived of the opportunity of seeing a posting because he was on days off for a full six-day posting period on his regular schedule.
This Agreement will expire April 30, 2000, or until a new Agreement is signed.
Dated this 15th day of January . 1998.
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
C.L.C. AND ITS LOCAL 7458
POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC., CORY DIVISION
(originals signed by those indicated)
B. Welke
International Representative


B. Medemach
President, Local 7458
K. Menzies
Human Resource Superintendent
97
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN, INC., CORY DIVISION AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, C.L.C., LOCAL 7458
The parties agree that Article 10.23 will not apply in situations of temporary job postings involving maintenance projects such as miner rebuild crews, capital projects, etc. where the estimated life of the project extends beyond the estimated life as stated on the postings. It is also agreed that if the project extends beyond the estimated life as stated on the posting, the job will be reposted, providing the successful bidder wants to disqualify himself.
This Agreement will expire on April 30, 2000, or until a new Agreement is signed.
Dated this 15th day of January . 1998.
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
C.L.C. AND ITS LOCAL 7458
POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC., CORY DIVISION
(originals signed by those indicated)
B. Welke
International Representative
B. Medemach	K. Menzies
President, Local 7458	Human Resources Superintendent
98