—.....:...
SOUSCc )	^
OF
*
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT This Memorandum of Agreement made the 10th of June 1993
the Bargaining Representatives of Cominco Fertilizers Ltd ;-ae
Bargaining Committee of the United Steelworkers of America, Local 7552 ■ representing employees of Cominco Fertilizers Ltd. at its
potash Operations situated approximately 7 km. north of No. 7 Highway between Vanscoy and Delisle, Saskatchewan.
The parties hereto agree to recommend to their respective principals, without reservation, the following terms and conditions for a Collective Agreement.
y
ho
No, OF
CJ i'H; I '^.1-;;)
The existing Collective Agreement shall be extended for one year with expiry at Midnight April 30,1994,, containing the same terms and conditions except as follows:
A. Wages
Schedule A of the Agreement, ^Occupational Classification and Hourly Base Rates", shall be amended as per Appendix A to this Memoranda m.
B. Personal Health Care Hours , Article 21.01 (4) shall be replaced with the following language:
Article 21 Personal Health Care Hours
Employees who have completed one (1) or more years of service with the Company as of July 1 of the year in question shall be entitled to paid personal health care hours in accordance with the following schedule:
Years of Completed Service _______as at i.Titl y.. 1 ,_t993_
1
2
3
4
.r • or more
Hours in Period of July 1 to the Succeeding; June 30
rs
24
32
40
64
To qualify for personal health care entitlement an employee must have been on role at least six (6) months prior to July 1.
Personal health care hours must be taken as part of the required three-day waiting period before an employee becomes eligible for sickness and accident benefits under Article 21 of this Agreement.
When an employee requires personal health care hours, it is understood that the employee's supervisor will be consulted prior to their use.
Ft
F
o
00227 (05)
2
Payment for personal health care hours shall be made on the basis of straight-time pay at the employee's regular base rate.
Personal health care hours may be banked to a maximum of one hundred and twenty (120) hours (at employee's option). All hours, or hours in excess of 120, will be paid out on first pay period after July 1 in a given year.
Personal Health Care Hours which have not been taken or banked on or before July 1 of any year shall be paid off.
In the event an employee leaves the employ of the Company for any reason, unused personal care hours will be paid out.
c. Paid Union Leave will be provided as follows:
The Company will provide the Union up to two hundred and forty (240) hours paid leave per calender year at straight-time rates.
D. All Letters ofUnderstanding currently in effect will remain in effect.
This Agreement, once ratified by the parties, shall be binding upon the parties hereto.
In Witness Whereof the parties hereto have executed this Memorandum of Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
Bargaining Representatives	. Bargaining , Representatives
of Cominco Fertilizers Ltd.	of the United Steelw°rkers
of America, Local 7552
3
APPENDIX A - WAGES
Schedule A to the Collective Agreement between Cominco Fertilizers Ltd. and the United Steelworkers of America, C.L.C., Local 7552 effective May 1, 1993.
OCCUPATIONAL CLASSIFICATIONS AND HOURLY BASE BATES
I ^tae Mill 1	Maintaonce	Effective May 1, 1993	
	2nd Cl^St^m (ticketed)	$21.51	
| Journeyman ^^rator	(non- ticketed)	$20.59	
Operator A	A Class St^m	$18.84	
^^rator B	B 4th Cl^ St^m	$17.09	
^^rator C	■Trade^sman c	$15.34	
^^rator D	D	$13.59	
			
			
Progression in the Warehouse shall commence with Operator D rate and progress through to' a maximum ofOperator A rate.
Employees who are apprenticed under the Apprenticeship and Tradesman's Qualifications Act will receive the following rates of pay :
1st	year	-	Tradesman	D"
2nd	year	-	Tradesman	C
3rd	year	-	Tradesman	B
4th	year	-	Tradesman	A
Sth	year	-	Tradesman	(Non-Ticketed)