AGREEMENT
Between
THE CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED
PVGWASH WORKS
Nova Scotia
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY, AND PAPERWORKERS UNION
PUGWASH SALT LOCAL 823
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 8, 1996 EXPIRES OCTOBER 7, 1999
1
00232 (06)
AGREEMENT
ENTERED INTO THIS TWENTY-SEVENTH DAY OF
FEBRUARY - 1997 by and between
THE CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED, a Company having an office at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, hereinafter called "The Company", and acting herein with respect only to its Pugwash Works, hereinafter referred to as "said works".
AND
COMMUNICATION, ENERGY, AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, PUGWASH SALT LOCAL 823, located at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, hereinafter referred to as "The Union".
2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE ............................. 1
Article #	Page #
I	PURPOSE ........................ 5
II	RECOGNITION......................6
III	CHECK-OFF........................8
IV	CO-OPERATION ....................9
V	REPRESENTATION..................11
VI	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	......... 15
VII	ARBITRATION ................... 19
VIII	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME .... 21
IX	WAGES - CLASSIFICATION	.........30
X	BEREAVEMENT-JURY DLH Y ........ 32
XI	HOLIDAYS ...................... 35
XII	VACATIONS ..................... 41
XIII	SENIORITY...................... 48
XIV	SAFETY AND HEALTH...............51
3
XV CONTRACTING OUT
55
XVI DURATION OF AGREEMENT ............,'56
SCHEDULE "A - Classification and Wage Rates 57
PREMIUMS .............................. 58
RETROACTIVE PAY.........................61
EMPLOYEE GROUP BENEFIT PUN..............62
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
FINE SALT PUNT.................. 64
SHIFT ENGINEERS..................64
EQUALIZATION OF OVERTIME.........65
MAINTENANCE -
APPRENTICESHIPAND PROMOTIONS . . 67
VACATION ........................69
VACATION - UY-OFF............... 69
TOWER OPERATOR.................. 70
BRINERS 12 HOUR SHIFT ...........70
SHAFTSMAN - OVERTIME ............ 71
PAN OPERATORS .................. 72
LETTER OF INTENT
FIELD SERVICE POOL PUN ......... 73
SENIORITY/PUNT SERVICE LISTS
Maintenance..................... 74
Underground..................... 76
Fine Salt........................78
Rock Salt Mill ..................80
4
ARTICLE I
PURPOSE
1.10 The Company arid (lie Union have entered into this Agreement at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, for the purpose of recording terms arid conditions of employment, resulting from collective bargaining, which are to be observed by the parties hereto. It is their desire to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and tire Union, to settle all differences in an amicable manner as herein provided, arid to work together to promote the safety and health of the employees and to achieve the most efficient operation of the works.
1 1.1 In any case where the benefits provided under the labour Standards Code and Regulations of the Province of Nova Scotia are found to be greater than those provided in this Agreement, then the benefits provided under that Code shall apply.
1.1.2 This Agreement shall conform to the existing Occupational Health and Safety Act, Province of Nova Scotia arid both parties agree to co-operate in the observance of this Act.
1.13 Except where the context otherwise requires, words or expressions used in this Agreement denoting the masculine gender shall be read as including the feminine gender
ARTICLE II ■ RECOGNITION
2.1.0	This Agreement shall apply to all the employees of the Company with the exception of Classifications listed below:
Management, Office and Stores Staff,
Supervisory Employees above and including the rank of Foremen.
Technical Engineers, Laboratory Staff and Assistants
Temporary and Probationary Employees,
Guards, Gatemen and Watchmen,
Office Janitorial Staff
2.1.1	The Company recognizes the Union during the term tf this Agreement or any renewal thereof, as the exclusive bargaining agent for the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to hours of work, rates of pay and other conditions of employment as set forth in this Agreement.
2.2.0	The Union recognizes the right of the Company io manage the said works and direct the working forces including the right to hire, promote or transfer any employee and to demote, suspend, discipline or discharge any employee for just cause. In the interest of the efficient operation tf the said works, the Union
6
agrees that the Company may change hours tf work, determine or change work assignments or methods and select the materials to be handled, processed or manufactured and to determine all other matters concerning the operation cf the Company's business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in the Agreement, and that any such action shall not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement and any such action which results in individual injustice, shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure.
2.3.0	The Union recognizes the right cf the Company io make and to alter from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by the employees. These rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the terms cf this Agreement.
2 .4 .0	The Union further recognizes the right
cf the Company to incorporate all manner cf technical arid process improvements at any time, notwithstanding the fact that such improvements may reduce the labour force required to operate the works. Such reductions shall be consistent with qualifications and seniority rights.
2.4.1	The letters of understanding exchanged between the parties on the signing of this collective agreement, and to be printed with the agreement, are part of the collective agreement and are binding upon the parties hereto during the term cf this agreement.
ARTICLE III
CHECK-OFF
3.1.0	The Company will deduct from the pay of each employee the monthly dues, initiation fees and other assessments and dues authorized by the Secretary-Treasurer and the President of the Union. The amounts of such deductions shall be deposited by the Company into the Union's Bank account no later than the 14thday following the month for which the deductions were made. A record of those from whose pay the deductions were made shall be submitted to the Union.
3.2.0	The Company shall notify the Union in writing, the names, classifications and rates cf pay d all new employees upon hiring.
3.3.0	The Company will notify the Union in writing within three (3) days of an attempt to recall a laid-off employee.
ARTICLE IV
CO-OPERATION
4.1.0	All new employees must take out and maintain Union membership within five (5) working days from the date of employment wilh the Company.
4.2.0	The Company agrees that the Union may use the Company's Bulletin Boards, located throughout the said Works, provided that the use by the Union of the Bulletin Boards shall be restricted to the posting thereon only of such notices as have received the approval in writing of the Company prior io posting and that the subject matter of such notices shall be restricted to matters pertaining to recreational or social activities, notices of meetings or notices of the results of elections in connection with affairs af the said Union, and provided further that no notice shall be posted which contains advertising or political matter. (Every effort shall be made both by the Company and the Union not to interfere unreasonably with each other's use of the boards)
4.3.0	There shall be no discrimination, intimidation, interference, restraint, coercion or attempted coercion by or on behalf of the Company or by or on behalf of the Union, its members or its agents regarding any employee because of membership or non membership in the Union, nor because of his race, colour, creed, religious or political beliefs. No employee shall, however, conduct Union activities during working hours except as specifically permitted in this Agreement.
4.4.0	The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize or sanction, nor permit its members to cause of take pari in, any sit down, stay-in, or slowdown in any department, or any strike or stoppage of any of the Company's operation or any curtailment of work or restriction or interference with production or any picketing of the Company's premises during the term of this Agreement.
4.4.1	The Company agrees there shall be no lode out during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
REPRESENTATION
5.1.0	The Company agrees to recognize a Union negotiating committee of six (6) members, one (I) of whom shall be the local Union President and one (1) from each of the following departments: Mine, Rock Salt Mill and Shipping, Maintenance, and Fine Salt Plant. The sixth member of this Committee shall represent the Chemical, Energy, and Paperworkers Union.
5.1.1	It is understood that compensation to the employee committee members for regular wages lost in connection with re-negotiation of this Agreement shall be made by the Company. The Company's obligation to pay for lost time shall cease at such time as a Conciliation Officer is present.
5.2.0	The Company also agrees to recognize a Grievance committee of six (6) members, one (I) of whom shall be the local Union President and one (1) from each of the following departments: Mine, Rock Salt Mill and Shipping, Maintenance, and Fine Salt Plant. The sixth member of this committee shall represent the Chemical, Energy, and Paperworkers Union.
5.3.0	The Union agrees to notify the Company in writing of the names of the local Union officers, committeemen, and shop stewards and the effective dates of their elections or appointments.
5.3.1	Members of the Union Executive, including the Chief Shop Steward, who have been excused from their regular shift, and who have
11
participated in a full shift of Union Business, will be paid at time and one half for all work performed on their regularshift when requested to work by the Company.
5.4.0	It is understood and agreed that the plant chairman, committeemen and shop stewards have their regular duties as employees to perform. Such a representative shall, however, after arrangement with, and the consent of his Foreman, whose consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, be permitted during his working hours, and without loss of time or pay, to leave his regular duties for a reasonable length of time in order to investigate and settle grievances in his jurisdiction.
The Union President shall be permitted to work on the Day Shift when such work is available within his own classification and for which he is qualified.
The Union President, Secretary Treasurer and Executive will be granted time off, without pay, to attend the regular monthly Union Meetings.
The request for such absence must be made to the Department Supervisor prior to the posting of the Weekly Schedule in which the meeting occurs.
V\hen such absence, for executive members only, requires the payment of Overtime Premium in order to provide relief, then such time off may be denied.
5.4.1	Each Foreman shall maintain, on special forms to be supplied by the Company, a record of the actual time when the chairman, committeeman and
12
shop steward leaves his regular dulies when about to engage in the investigation or settlement of a grievance or grievances and ol the actual time when tie returns arid resumes his regular duties. The Foreman and Union representative shall initial each entry ol time on the said form.
5.5.0	The Company agrees that a leave of absence without pay shall be granted to any employee lor Union business up to a maximum of sixty (60) woridng days in any one year. Seniority shall continue to accumulate during this period. The Union agrees to give the Company at least ten (10) days notice in writing of such leave giving appropriate details. The Union agrees there shall riot be more than two (2) employees on leave ot absence for Union business at any one time and that such leaves shall not in any event exceed three (3) months in the aggregate during each one (1) year period of this Agreement
5.5 1 In addition to Clause 5 5.0, an employee who is appointed to a full time position with the Union, shall be granted a Leave of Absence without pay, not to exceed twelve (12) months.
Upon application, thirty (30) days prior to the end ot such twelve month period or any subsequent twelve month period, the Leave of Absence will be extended for an additional twelve (12) months
Seniority shall continue to accumulate during such periods
5.S.0	The Company agrees to notify all committee members, in writing forty-eight (48) hours in advance of Company initiated Management Committee Meetings and to give as much notice as practicable for all other meetings or the cancellation of meetings that they are to attend.
ARTICLE VI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.1.0	Any dispute, grievance or misunderstanding (hereinafter called a "Grievance ') which any employee or group of employees may wish to present to the Company shall be handled in the following manner
6.1.1	Stage One: Any employee having a grievance shall first present it to his Foreman within a period of three (3) working days from the time that such an alleged grievance has arisen. The employee, if he so desires, may be accompanied by his shop steward. The foreman shall deal with the Grievance arid shall render his decision not later than three (3) working days after he receives the grievance.
6.1.2	Stage Two: If the foreman does riot settle the matter to the satisfaction of the employee under the provisions of Stage One hereof, the employee and, if he so desires, with his shop steward, shall take the matter up directly with the Superintendent, in writing, on forms provided by the Union, within four (4) working days. The decision at this stage should he in writing within four (4) working days. Copies will be sent to all Grievance Committee members.
6.1.3	Stage Three:	Should the Shop
Steward and the Employee he unable to secure a satisfactory settlement from the Superintendent within four (4) working days after the grievance has been submitted to him, the Union Grievance Committee shall, within four (4) working days submit to the Facility Manager a written request for a Third Stage meeting.
15
The Company and the Union shall then, within four (4) working days arrange a meeting. The Company shall, within four (4) working days after such meeting, submit its written reply to the Union.
6.1.4	Any allegation involving the misinterpretation or violation af any provision of this agreement may be lodged either by the Union or by the Company with the other party, in writing at Stage Three within ten (10) working days after the alleged misinterpretation or violation Of the agreement has occuned. In the event of failure of the Company and the Union to agree on a settlement of the issue, it may be referred to arbitration by either party within ten (10) working days in accordance with the provisions of Stage Four.
6.1.5	A Grievance arising from the discharge, or the suspension of three (3) working days or more, of an employee may be submitted at Stage Three of the Grievance procedure within four (4) working days after the discharge or suspension has occuned. Any employee, who has been found through the Grievance Procedure, to have been wrongfully discharged, shall be reinstated.
6.1.6	No grievance shall be lodged or prosecuted against the discharge by the Company of a probationary employee.
6.1.7	The aggrieved employee may attend any meetings at Stage Three.
16
6.1.8	Stage Four: In the event of failure to reach agreement at Stage Three, either party may submit the grievance to arbitration in accordance with Article VII. Such submission must be made within ten (10) working days after the grievance has been dealt with in Stage Three.
6.2.0	Saturdays, Sundays, DayoHor Day of rest (for seven (7) day operations) and holidays shall not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to betaken in each of the foregoing steps. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended at any time by mutual written agreement between the Company and the Union.
6.3.0	Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prevent an individual employee from presenting any of his personal grievances directly io the Company provided such grievances are not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
6.4.0	Committeemen, if on shift, arid when granted leave of absence to engage in grievance procedure meetings with the Facility Manager at Stage Three only, shall not be penalized for loss cf time or pay, provided the total time involved in all such meetings does not exceed eight (8) hours, for any one grievance.
6.5.0	The Company agrees that it has an obligation to deal as expeditiously as is reasonable in the application of discipline.
The Company shall, however, advise the employee of the disciplinary action to be taken as soon as a decision to that effect has been reached.
6.6.0	In imposing discipline on a current charge, Management will not take into account any prior infractions which occurred more than two (2) years previously.
ARTICLE VII - ARBITRATION
7.1.0	When either party decides to submit a grievance to arbitration, under 6.1.8, then the other party shall be so advised in writing. The Company and the Union shall then each appoint an arbitrator within ten (10) working days. The two (2) arbitrators shall endeavour to agree upon a third arbitrator to act as chairman of the arbitration board. If the third arbitrator be not chosen within ten (10) working days, then the Minister <f Labour of the province of Nova Scotia shall be requested to assist in appointing an impartial chairman.
7.2.0	No person shall be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved previously in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
7.3.0	Each party shall pay the remuneration and expenses, if any, of the arbitrator appointed by such party and the remuneration and expenses of the third or single arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the parly calling the witness.
7.4.0	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board shall be expedited by the Company and the Union. The decision of the majority of such Board shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto, but the arbitrators shall not be authorized to make, nor shall they make, any decision or recommendation inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor alter, modify or amend any part ct this Agreement, in wage rates, nor deal with any matter not covered by this Agreement.
7.5.0	Grievances related to discharge and suspension of three (3) working days or more appealed to Arbitration, will be umpired by a single Arbitrator.
The party desiring to appeal a grievance under this section to Arbitration shall notify the other party, in writing, of its intent including the remedy sought.
Within ten (10) working days after the date of delivery of the foregoing notice, the parties shall meet io select an impartial Arbitrator.
Should the parties fail to agree within five (5) working days, the Minister af Labour of the Province of Nova Scotia -will be requested to appoint a person who shall umpire.
The Arbitrator shall hear the case as soon as possible.
20
ARTICLE VIII • HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
8.1.0	The regular hours of work are stated solely lor the purpose of calculating overtime and shall not be constated as a guarantee of any minimum nor as a restriction on any maximum number of hours worked.
8.1.1	The regular hours of work lor other than the continuous twelve (12) hour shift or the continuous eight (8) hour shift shall be eight (8) consecutive hours per day, five (5) days a week Monday to Friday inclusive.
8 1.2 Continuous twelve (12) hour shift: Employee pay week is to be from 8:00 p.m. Sunday to 8:00 p.m. the following Sunday. Hours of work:
Day Shift • 8.00 a m. to 8:00 p.m.
Night Shift - 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
8.1	3 Continuous twelve (12) hour shift:
Pan Operators and Shift Engineer!; only
Regular hours of work shall be twelve (12) regular hours per day, three (3) and four (4) days per week lor an average of forty-two (42) Itours per week on a four (4) week cycle in accordance with the agreed shift schedule.
8.1.4	The Union recognizes that due to operational requirements, the Company may institute continuous eight (8) hour shift operations with four (4)
regular rotating crews for shift engineers, pari operators arid briners only. The regular hours of work for continuous seven (7) day operation shall be eight (8) hours per day, five (5) or six (6) days per week in accordance with the mutually agreed rotating daft schedule (twenty (20) week cyde) for an average forty-two (42) regular hours.
8.2.0	It is understood that because of the nature of the salt business, the operation of this works requires a certain amount of periodic overtime.
VWien considered necessary by the Company, employees shall be requested to perform overtime work in excess of the regular hours of work.
Employees with a justifiable reason, shall be excused from woming overtime. However, it is agreed that if sufficient qualified employees are riot voluntarily available, then one (1) or more of the above excused employees, having the lowest Overtime Worked Total, *-shall be required to work.
8.2.1	The Company shall endeavour as far as reasonable practicable over a period of four (4) months to distribute overtime equitably among qualified employees in the Department by dassification in which such work becomes necessary.
Lists will be posted every lour (4) months indicating, by Department, overtime worked and refused. Overtime will be recorded as equivalent straight time hours.
22
A copy of the Overtime Distribution List will be sent to the Union Executive Member in each Department weekly.
In the event of inequities of more than twenty-four (24) hours existing at the end cf a four (4) month period they will be corrected by assigning overtime available to the applicable employee(s) as soon as practicable.
Reasonable effort will be made to contact eligible and available employees. If no contact can be made with an employee who does not have a phone, the employee will be considered as having refused overtime and be charged such time.
0.2.2 Employees eligible for overtime assignments shall be charged with overtime missed as a result of:
ra) Disability due to sickness or accident.
(b)	Leave of Absence	(except leaves for Union
business).
(c)	Casual absences
(d)	Suspensions
8.2.3 An employee transferring from one classificationto another shall be credited with the average overtime hours of the employees within his new
classification
8.2.4	On completion of his probationary period, a new employee will be credited with the average overtime hours of the employees in tiis classification
8.2.5	In order to facilitate the equitable distribution of overtime and to ensure iliat personnel are available for overtime assignments, employees will be allowed up to twenty-four (24) hours from tire time of posting to advise unavailability for oveitime assignments.
8.3.0	An employee whose working week is Monday to Friday inclusive, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked on Saturday and double time for all hours worked on Sunday.
8.3.1	An employee whose working week includes Saturday or Sunday or both (excepting as in 8.3.2) of these days shall be paid at trie rate of time and one-half for all hours worked on tiis first day off and double time for all hours worked on tiis second day off.
8.3.2	For continuous twelve (12) Hour Shift Workers, any work in excess of three (3) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts will be paid at the rate of Time and One-half and any work in excess of lour (4) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts will he paid at the rate of Double Time.
8.3.3	When, as a result of a change of production schedule (a) from a five (5) day week to a seven (7) day week or (b) Irom a seven (7) day week to
a five (5) day week or (c) from a five (5,) day week or a seven (7) day week to the continuous twelve (12) hour shift, an employee is required to work more than five (5) consecutive days, he shall be paid at the raie of lime and one-half for the sixth day and double time for the seventh day.
8.3.4	When, as a result tf a change cf production schedule from a continuous twelve (12) hour shift to a five (5) or seven (7) day week, an employee is required to work in excess cf three (3) or four (4) consecutive days, these excess days will be paid in accordance with clause 8.3.2.
8.3.5	An employee, except as noted in Clause 8.1.3 and 8.1.4 shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half calculated to the nearest halt hour worked for all time worked:
(A)	In excess cf eight (8) hours in any continuous period of twenty-four (24) hours, commencing at the employee's regulariy scheduled starting time.
(B)	Between Sunday midnight and the employee's first scheduled shift of Ihe week.
(C)	In excess cf eight (8) hours if an employee does not have at least an eight (8) hour break period prior to his first scheduled shift of the week. The "Continuous period <f twenty-four (24) hours" for the first scheduled day of that week will commence with his actual starting time on Sunday rather than his scheduled starting time.
25
The remainder of the week will be as outlined in
(A) above.
8.3.6	An employeeonthecontinuoustwelve (12) hour shift shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half calculated to the nearest half hourworked for all time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in any continuous period cf twenty-four (24) hours commencing ai the employee's regular scheduled starting time.
8.3.7	Subject ta the provisions of 8.5.1 the Company agrees to compensate the employee for any loss cf regular hours incurred as a result of a Company initiated change in the Posted Weekly Shift Schedule.
8.3.8	An employee will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the first shift only cf a Company initiated change in a Posted Weekly Shift Schedule when such change is made after 4:00 on Friday.
8 3.9 An employee acting in the capacity cf a relief operator, or in training (Pan Operator or Shift Engineer) in a continuous operation, who is scheduled to work a combination of 8 hour and 12 hour shifts in a "Posted Weekly Schedule", shall be paid a rate equal to time and one half for all hours worked in excess of 40.
An employee acting in the capacity of a relief operator, or in training (Pan Operator or Shift Engineer) in a five (5) day, 12 hour shift operation, who is scheduled to work a combination of 8 hour and 12 hour shifts in a "Posted Weekly Schedule" shall be paid at the rate of time and one half for all hours worked on Saturday
26
and double time for all hours worked on Sunday. Further, employees will be paid at the rate of time and one half for all hours worked in excess of 40.
8.4.0	An employee may, with the approval of the Company, arrange for a change of shift with another employee provided each employee will have at least an eight (8) hour break between shifts and the mutual exchange will not result in any additional overtime pay-
8.4.1	With the approval of the Company, employees on twelve (12) hour shifts may arrange for a mutual exchange of up to four (4) hours, provided that the right to any overtime payment, which may be incurred by the employee as a result of such change, is waived.
8.4.2	Employees who are not eligible for a mutual exchange of shifts as provided for in Article VIII (8.4.0) because of their particular job or classification, may under this Agreement now arrange for such change.
Prior approval of the Foreman must be received and the initial change or subsequent change back to the regular schedule will not result in any overtime payment.
8,5.0	An employeewho is called in by the Company to perform work outside his normal hours of work shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours pay at the appropriate overtime rate calculated at the employee's basic rate or the job classification rate,
whichever is the higher. However, no minimum payment shall apply when the hours so worked are continuouswitli the employee's regularly scheduled working hours.
8.5.1	An employeewho reports for work on his regularly scheduled shift, and for whom no work is available, will be guaranteed four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay at his regular rate.
This provision shall not apply to employees who are returning to work after an absence or when such lack of work is due to the lateness of the employee, a labour dispute, fire, flood, power shortage, or other such cause beyond the control of the Company.
8.5.2	Overtime payments shall not be pyramided nor shall more than one basis for calculating overtime be used to cover the same hours
8.6.0	Hoisting and lowering schedules for underground employees will be arranged to provide eight (8) hours from collar to collar for each shift, but variations from such schedules, not exceedingfifteen (15) minutes which do not occur consistently, shall be disregarded. Delays in such schedules in excess cf fifteen (15) minutes shall be considered time worked.
8.6.1	It is understood that all surface department employees shall be at their working place arid ready to assume their duties at the commencement of their shift.
8.6.2	If. at the commencement of his
28
scheduled shift, an employee is laie, he shall bn penalized to the extent of fifteen minutes lor lateness of one to fifteen minutes, and to the extent of a further fifteen minutes for each succeeding period of lateness of one to fifteen minutes. The entries on the employee's Clock Card shall govern the application of this Clause.
8.6.3	If such an employee leaves his working place before the end of any scheduled working period, tie shall be penalizedto the extent of fifteen (15) minutes for early leaving for every quarter-hour or fraction thereof included in the period between the time when the employee left his working place and the end of such scheduled shift. The entries on the employee's Clock Card shall govern the application of this Clause.
8.7.0	Absence of an employee without prior notice with reasonable excuse or without subsequent reasonable excuse, may on the first offence result in a reprimand by the Company. On the second offence, the employee may be suspended for a period decided upon by the Company, but not to exceed one (1) week. The third offence may result in discharge. Any reprimand for absence will be cancelled from the record of an employee six (6) months after it is incurred.
29
ARTICLE IX - WAGES - CLASSIFICATION
9.1.0	The Classification of all occupations and wage rates appearing in Schedule "A" attached hereto, is made part of this Agreement arid is signed for identification by the parties hereto. Any new occupation established during the term of this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in Schedule "A".
9.2.0	It is agreed that when an employee is assigned temporarily to perform work in a classification paying a lower rate than his own, he shall be paid at his regular rate, provided work is availablefor him at the time in his regular classification. If there is no work available in his own classification, such employee shall be paid the classification rate of the job to which lie is temporarily assigned. Any employee, with the exception of those assigned as relief to the classification of Conveyor Floor Attendant or Truck Scale Attendant shall get the classification of the highest class of work he does any time during his regular shift.
For those employees acting as relief Conveyor Floor Attendants or Truck Scale Attendants, the higher rate shall apply only for the actual time assigned to that classification.
9.3.0	An employee who is to be demoted because his job is to be permanently eliminated shall be given advance notice of ten (10) calendar days or in lieu of such notice, shall retain his previous rate for ten (10) calendar days.
9.4.0	It is the express policy of the Company that Foremen, acting Foremen arid Supervisors shall not perform the regular work of a member of the bargaining unit except:
(A)	In the case of emergency where immediate action is necessary in order to protect personnel or equipment;
(B)	For the purpose of instruction or training including demonstrating the proper method to accomplish the task assigned;
(C)	For the purpose of developing a method or technique;
(□) For the purpose of checking operating conditions.
ARTICLE X - BEREAVEMENT • JURY DUTY
10.1.0	An employee who has attained seniority status and who suffers the bereavement of a member of his immediate family shall be granted a Leave of Absence with pay not to exceed three (3) days off or twenty-four (24) hours pay at straight time, subject to the following condition:
(A) Attend the Funeral
10.1.1	Should the employee be unable to attend the funeral of a member of his immediate family, he shall be granted a Leave of Absence with pay for two (2) of the above mentioned days, provided satisfactory evidence of death is furnished to the Company.
10.1.2	An employeeon the continuous twelve (12) hour shift who has attained seniority status and who suffers the bereavement tf a member tf his immediate family shall be granted a Leave of Absence with straight time pay not to exceed three (3) days offat twelve (12) hours per day, subject to the following conditions.
10.1.3	The days eligible for payment shall be three (3) days up to and including the day following the funeral. Such days must be scheduled working days of the employee who, but for the bereavement, would have worked on those days.
32
10.1.4	A member of the immediate family shall be defined as father or step-father, mother or step mother, brother, sister, father-in-law or mother-in-law, of the employee or any person who has acted in one of these capacities for at least the past two (2) years.
10.1.5	In the event an employee, who has attained seniority, suffers the bereavement of a brother-inlaw or sister-in-law, grandparents or grand-children, the Company will grant one (1) day Leave of Absence with pay at straight time to attend the funeral provided the funeral takes place on the employee's scheduled working day.
10.1.6	In the event an employee suffers the bereavement of both his parent and step-parent during his employment with the Company, the employee shall be granted Leave of Absence under 10.1.4 in one case and 10.1.5 in the other.
10.1.7	An employee who has attained seniority status and who suffers Hie bereavement of his child, current spouse, or step child <t current spouse, or any person who has acted in one of these capacities for at least the past two years shall be granted four (4) consecutive scheduled, non-overlime, days leave of absence with pay at straight time.
10.1.8	Forthe purpose cf Article X, the word 'Common Law Spouse' will be recognized within the full meaning of the word spouse, so long as cohabitation has existed for a continuous period of 12 months.
33
10.2.0	An employee who is summoned and reports for Jury Duty or Is subpoenaed by a court as a witness and appears in court shall be paid by the Company, an allowance equal to the difference between the employee's straight time earnings lost as a result of his jury service or appearance in court as a witness and the amount of jury or witness fees, excluding travelling allowance, paid by the court. .
10.2.1	In order to qualify for such payment the employee will be required to give the Company prior notice that he has been summoned for Jury Duty or subpoenaed as a witness and to furnish satisfactory evidence that Jury Duty was performed or that he attended as a witness on the days for which he claims such allowance.
10.3.0	Absence as a result of a conviction under either the Motor Vehicle Act or Sections 234, 234.1, 235, 236, arid 237 of the Criminal Code of Canada, shall be treated as Leaves of Absence without
pay-
34
ARTICLE XI - HOLIDAYS
11.1.0	It is agreed that the following days shall be considered paid holidays during the Term cf this Agreement for employees on the Seniority List:
iaae
Thanksgiving Day Armistioe Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
24th/31 st (All 4-12 Shift)
(All Others)
1997
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Miners' Memorial Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Armistioe Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
24tli/31st (All 4 - 12 Shift)
(All others)
1 Floater
Wednesday, Jan. 1/97 Friday, Mar. 28/97 Monday, Mar. 31/97 Monday, May 19/97 Monday, June 9/97 Tuesday, July 1/97 Monday, Aug. 4/97 Monday, Sept. 1/97 Monday, Oct. 13/97 Tuesday, Nov. 11/97 Thursday, Dec. 25/97 Friday, Dec. 26/97 Wednesday, Dec. 24/97 Wednesday. Dec. 31/97
Monday, Oct. 14/96 Monday, Nov. 11/96 Wednesday, Dec. 25/96 Thursday, Dec. 26/96 Tuesday, Dec. 24/96 Tuesday, Dec. 31/96
35
.1998
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Miners' Memorial Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Armistice Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
24th/31st (All 4 -12 Shift) (All Others)
1 Floater
New Yeah Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Miners' Memorial Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day 1 Floater
Thursday, Jan. 1/98 Friday, Apr. 10/98 Monday, Apr. 13/98 Monday, May 18/98 Monday, June 8/98 Wednesday, July 1/98 Monday, Aug. 3/98 Monday, Sept. 7/98 Monday, Oct. 12/98 Wednesday, Nov. 11/98 Friday. Dec. 25/98 Monday, Dec. 28/98 Thursday, Dec. 24/98 Thursday, Dec. 31/98
1999
Friday, Jan. 1/99 Friday, Apr. 2/99 Monday, Apr. 5/99 Monday, May 24/99 Monday, June 14/99 Thursday, July 1/99 Monday, Aug. 2/99 Monday, Sept. 6/99
36
11.1.1	An employee who is off work on any of (ho above Holidays shall, subject to the provisions of Clause 11.1.2, be paid an amount equivalent to that which he would have received lor his regular scheduled shift.
1112 An employee shall not be entitled to be so paid
(A)	If he does nol work on any non-statutory holiday when he has been scheduled to do so, unless he has been excused from work in advance or furnishes a subsequent justifiable reason for such failure
(B)	If he is absent without a justifiable reason on the Iasi scheduled working day preceding the holiday or the next scheduled working day succeeding the holiday
For the purpose of Holiday Pay entitlement only, overtime shall not be considered as a scheduled shift
(C)	However, in the case of illness certified by medical certificate, leave of absence or layoff, an employee shall receive his holiday pay if he had worked fifteen (15) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday.
11.1.3 For scheduled continuous shift employees, holidays covered by Article XI will be observed on the calendar day on which they actually fall.
37
11.1.4 Employees who have acquired seniority will be eligible for one (1) floater holiday to be taken between January 1 and December 31 (f each year as follows:
1) Upon completion of 90 days worked in each yearly period, the employee becomes eligible for one (1) holiday.
An employee wishing to use a floater holiday for which he has become eligible, shall request permission from his supervisor prior to the posting <f the weekly schedule.
Although permission will not unreasonably be withheld, absence due to a floater holiday will be considered as part of the department's maximum allowable absence.
Normally, employee time off for banked and floater holidays will be scheduled so that a replacement can be provided on regular time basis.
k will be possible, however, when the request, in the opinion of the immediately supervisor, is reasonable and justified, to provide replacement on an overtime basis.
The floater holiday will not be carried over from one year to the next. If the floater holiday is not taken, it will be paid out at regular rate at the beginning of each new year.
An employee who has acquired seniority may, with the permission of his Supervisor, use the floater holiday in advance of eligibility. At the end of December of each
38
year, employees who have taken the floater holiday but have not satisfied the eligibility, as stated in number 1 above, will be required to reimburse the Company any holiday pay advanced.
11.2.0	In addition to the holiday pay stipulation in Clause 11.1.1, employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-haif for all work performed on the above holidays.
11.2.1	Pan Operators, Shift Engineers and Briners when on Continuous Shift as defined in Clause 8.1.3 and 8.1.4 who work on a Holiday, shall have the option of taking a day off in lieu of the Holiday worked.
All Holidays banked must be used prior to December 31st of the following year. Holidays not used will be cancelled and employee will be paid amount being held in lieu.
For those employees who elect to take a day in lieu of a Holiday worked, the following shall apply:
One week's notice in writing shall be required of the employee's intentto take a day in lieu. Arrangements for the day cff in lieu of the Holiday worked will require the approval of the Dept. Supervisor and will require notice in writing of one (1) week.
Such approval by the Department Supervisor will not be unreasonably withheld.
39
Payment of the Premium portion will be paid for the Holiday worked. Payment of the regular portion will be paid when the day in lieu is taken.
To satisfy the requirement of a "Weeks Notice", such notice must be given prior to the posting of the "Posted Weekly Schedule".
11.3.0	Employees who are ineligible for holiday pay by reason of insufficient service, will be paid at the rate of time and one-hall for work performed on any of the above holidays.
11.4.0	Employees without seniority are governed by the Labour Standards Code and Regulations of the Province of Nova Scotia.
40
ARTICLE XII - VACATIONS
12.1.0	Subject io the rules contained below, an employee who has completed the prescribed period of service by March 31st., shall be granted a vacation with pay as follows:
12.1.1	Employees with six (6) months but less than twelve (12) months accumulated service shall be granted a vacation equal to 0.83 of a day per month of service.
Vacation Pay shall be four (4) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.2	A vacation week for all employees will be seven (7) conseculive days commencing on the first regular scheduled working day following the employee's regular scheduled day or days off.
For continuous shift workers, vacation shall be seven (7) consecutive days commencing on Monday and ending on Sunday.
12.1.3	Employees with one (1) year but less than five (5) years accumulated service shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be four (4) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.4	Employees with five (5) years but less than ten (10) years accumulated service shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be six (6) percent <f the employee's gross earnings with the
41
Company
12.1.5	Employees with fen (10) years but less than twenty (20) years accumulated service shall be entitledto four (4) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be eight (8) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.6	Employeeswith twenty (20) years but less than twenty-seven (27) accumulated service shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be ten (10) percent of the employees gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.7	Employees with twenty-seven (27) years or more accumulated service shall be entitledto six (6) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be twelve (12) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.8	For the purpose of these rules Accumulated Service shall be the total period during which the employee has been an employee of the Company commencing on the employee's most recent hiring date or January 1, 1952, whichever is the most recent.
Any employee whose 5th, 10th, 20th, or 27th year of accumulated service falls within the current vacation year, shall be permitted to take the corresponding vacation entitlement at the applicablerate of pay beginning April 1st <f the current vacation year.
If, however, the employee should resign or is otherwise terminated prior to his anniversary date, he will be required to reimburse the Company for the extra week of vacation pay he was granted.
12.1.9	Vacations may not be postponedfrom one year to another, nor may they be waived by an employee and vacation pay be drawn in lieu of the vacation. No pari of a Leave of Absence shall be considered as the vacation period.
However, an employee returning from lay-off may, upon his return to work waive part or all (in increments of (1) one week) of his outstanding vacation entitlement and be paid in lieu thereof.
An employee who has a layoff period which equals or exceeds his vacation enlitlement may, upon his return to work waive part or all (in increments of one (1) week) of his outstanding vacation entitlement and be paid in lieu thereof.
12.1.10	For those entitled to three (3), four (4), five (5), or six (6) weeks vacation, the Company reserves the right to limit their vacation during July and August to two (2) weeks. Such employees may schedule the remainder of their vacation outside of July or August.
12.1.11	Vacations shall be scheduled by the Company to take place mainly during the summer months and shall be arranged to coiricide as far as possible with the wishes of the employees, subject in both cases to the efficient operation of the department
43
concerned.
12.1.12	Where a recognized holiday or holidaysoccur during an employee's vacation, he shall be entitled to take an additional day or days either immediately preceding or following his vacation provided the Company has been advised in writing of his intent at least one (1) week prior to the commencement cf his vacation.
12.1.13	Vacation pay shall be paid the employee on the last day preceding the date the employee is scheduled to go on vacation, providing that the employee shall have confirmed in writing his impending vacation with the Company at least one (1) week in advance.
The employee has the option of taking all or part of his vacation pay entitlement when going on vacation.
12.1.14	Upon termination of employment, an employee shall be paid a vacation allowance of four (4) percent, six (6) percent, eight (8) percent, ten (10) percent a twelve (12) percent of his gross wage as determined by preceding Clauses 12.1.1, 12.1.2, 12.1.3, 12.1.4,12.1.5. 12.1.6,' 12.1.7.
12.1.15	In any case where the benefits provided under the Nova Scotia Vacation Pay Act are found to be greater than the above provisions, the benefits provided underlie Act shall apply.
44
12.1.16	Members cf the bargaining unit, not exceeding more than one (1) from each Department at any one time, shall be granted, upon request, a leave cf absence without pay, not to exceed four (4) weeks per life of this Agreement. Leaves of absence, exceptfor the purpose of bereavement, will not be granted when such leave exceeds the department's maximum allowable absence.
ARTICLE XIII - SENIORITY
13.1.0	An employee shall acquire seniority status after he has been in the employ of the Company for an aggregate probationary period of ninety (90) days during any 6 month period.
Seniority shall date three (3) months prior to the date on which seniority was acquired, but not prior to the first day worked.
13.1.1	\Mien two (2), or more, newly hired employees acquire seniority in a department on the same date, the order of appearance on the seniority list will be decided by draw.
13.2.0	In all cases of promotion including vacation relief, demotion, transfer, lay-off, and recall, the Company will consider the following:
(A)	Seniority
(B)	Skill and ability to perform the work required.
13.2.1	When, in the judgement of the Company, Factor (B) is equal, as between two (2) or more employees, seniority shall govern. Cases of disagreement shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of Article VI.
13.3.0	It is agreed that there shall be four (4) divisional seniority lists, Mine, Rock Salt Mill and Shipping, Maintenance, and Fine Salt Plant. When an
46
employee transfers from one division to another, his name shall be placed ai the bottom of the Divisional Seniority List and he shall retain his seniority in his original division for a period of sixty (60) days.
At the end of sixty (60) days of cumulative seniority in the new division, (sixty (60) working days in the Maintenance Division and sixty (60) calendar days in all other divisions) the transfer shall be considered final and his seniority shall then date from the date of such transfer.
13.3.1	A notice of vacancy will be posted for a period of forty-eight (48) regular working hours in all departments inviting applications from interested candidates. Such postings will be valid for a period of sixty (60) days. The results will be posted within one (1) week, seven (7) consecutive days.
13.3.2	Promotions to vacant positions will be filled from within the division in which the vacancy occurs provided suitable applicants are available. Failing success in locating a suitable candidate from within the division in which the vacancy occurs, applications from other divisions will then be considered in order of total plant service.
13.3.3	For the purpose of inter-department transfer, Temporary Positions cf less than sixty (60) days duration need not be posted.
13.3.4
Promotions of a non-permanent
nature (greater than sixty (60) calendar days) will be reversed upon return to work cf the permanent incumbent, if in the judgement of the Company, the incumbent is physically and otherwise capable of performing all of the required duties.
13.3.5	Notwithstanding any provisions of Article XIII, students may be hired for periods not to exceed four (4) consecutive months. Such employees shall be considered as probationary and shall not acquire seniority. All other provisions of this Agreement shall apply to these employees.
13.3.6
Employees who are laid-off for a continuous period cf sixty (60) calendar days or more will return to work at the lowest classification within their department.
2)	For lay-off periods less than sixty (60) continuous days, employees will return to the classification they held at the time of their layoff.
3)	The exception will be:
a)	Maintenance Department employees
b)	Boiler Operators
The above exceptions will retain their classifications when returning from periods of lay-off.
13.4.0	Hoistmen shall be included on the Mine Seniority List.
48
13.5.0	An employee will lose all seniority if he or she:
(A)	Voluntarily quits.
(B)	Is justifiably discharged.
(C)	f in Nova Scotia, fails to return to work	within
five (5) days after notice to return has been sent by registered mail. If outside Nova Scotia, he must return in a reasonable time. In either case, both Union and Company must be notified immediately of change of address.
(D)	Is laid-off in excess of the greater of twenty-four (24) months or the employees service.
(E)	Is absent from work for	five	(5)	consecutive
normal working days without notifying the Company giving a satisfactory reason for such absence.
13.6.0	A laid-off employee holding seniority in one (1) division who is accepted for temporary employment in another division and who has not accumulated sixty (60) continuous days in his temporary position will return to his former division as soon as regular work is available for him in that division.
13.6.1	If such temporary employment exceeds sixty (60) continuous days in one (1) division, the employee may elect to apply this period for a permanent transfer to the seniority list af the new division.
49
The employee shall, in this event, be required to advise the Company in writing, of his decision to transfer his seniority within a period of seven (7) days after he has been notified by the Company, in writing, that he is eligible to transfer his seniority.
Such transfer of seniority will not take place until after the job posting procedure.
13 6.1? The Company agrees that before hiring probationary employees, any member of the bargaining unit on lay-off qualified to do the work available will be given first choice to fill the job opening.
13.6.3	Five (5) days following receipt of a Lay-off Notice, an employee shall be entitled to exercise accumulated service over a probationary employee in anotherdepartmenf who has not attained seniority status in that department.
13.7.0	If an employee is transferred to a supervisory position, he shall be excluded from the coverage of this Agreement. However, if an employee returns to the bargaining unit within twelve (12) months, he will retain his accumulated seniority
50
ARTICLE XIV - SAFETY AND HEALTH
14.1.0	The Company shall continue to make reasonable provision for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment.
Such protective devices as the Company requires to be worn and other equipment which in the opinion of the Company is necessary to protect the employee from injury shall be provided by the Company.
14.1.1	Employees afflicted with alcoholism or drug abuse will be covered by the Disability Plan provided they subject themselves to prescribed treatment.
14.1.2	It is agreed that the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee will be comprised of:
3 Union Representatives 3 Company Representatives
Each party will advise the other in January of each year the names of their representatives.
14.1.3	It is agreed that each department will have one (1) safety representative with the exception of the maintenance department which will have two (2), one (1) from surface maintenance and one (1) from underground maintenance.
These representatives will participate in their department safety meetings and safety tours.
51
14.2.0
(A)	Coverall/overalls will be providedto all employees free of charge.
(B)	A.N.S.I.Z87/C.SA. approved non-prescription safety glasses will be provided free of charge to a maximum of six (6) pair per year/employee.
The Company will provide a refund <f $175.00 upon receipt of proof of purchase of A.N.S.I.Z87/C.S.A. approved safety frames and prescription lenses once every two (2) year period as follows:
Period between Oct. 8,1996 - Oct 7, .1998
Period between Oct 8,1998 - Oct 7, 2009
The Company agrees to replace the lenses only of prescription safety frames and safety lenses when such lenses are damaged as a result of the employees work ai the Plant.
Such replacement will be on the following basis:
Maintenance Dept. Employees: Three times per two year period, October 8/96 - October 7/98; and three times per two year period, October 8/98 - October 7, 2000.
All Other Employees: Once per above two year period.
C) 1) Miners belts will be provided free of charge.
2)	Gloves will be provided for dirty and hazardous jobs, as determined by the Company, free of change. Other gloves will be provided at cost
3)	Dust masks will be provided free of charge.
4)	Hearing protection will be provided free of charge on request and will be required to be worn on designated jobs.
5)	Welding equpment will be provided free of charge.
D) The Company will refund the purchase price of
Company approved safety footwear up to the
maximum shown below:
From October 8/96 - October 7/97 $100.00 From October 8/97 - October 7/98	105.00
From October 8/98 - October 7/99	110.00
14.2.1	WhenevertheCompanyrecommends to the employees for their better protection, the use of additional personal safety equipment which it does not supply free of charge, it will make such equipment available to employees at cost.
14.2.2	f a hazardous condition is perceived by an employee, he shall point it out to his Foreman. If a remedy is not agreed to, the situation shall be examined by a committee consisting of the Union President or his deputy, the Department Safety
53
Committeeman, the Company Safety Supervisor, the Department Supervisor and a qualified member of the Maintenance Department when required.
This committee will recommend a remedy to the Department Superintendent. If this is not accepted, the matter will be referred to the Facility Manager for a decision.
In the event of Department of Mines regulations being introduced to cover this situation, such regulations will take precedence.
14.3.0	The Company shall, if possible, provide an overtime meal if the employee is required to work more than ten (10) continuous hours and if employment continues an overtime lunch if possible at thirteen (13) hours and at intervals of four (4) hours thereafter. If it is not possible for the Company to provide the above meal and/or lunches, then the employee will be paid $7.50 per meal and $5.50 per lunch.
14.3.1	Employees on the continuous twelve (12) hour shift shall be paid for or provided with lunches and meals only after fourteen (14); hours and seventeen (17) hours worked at intervals of four (4) hours thereafter.
14.4.0	VMien an employee has been authorized to use his vehicle for trips to the Marine Terminal or MacLeod Lake, he shall be reimbursed $4.25 per round trip to the Manne Terminal and $5.50 per round trip to MacLeod Lake.
ARTICLE XV - CONTRACTING OUT
15.1.0	Whenever it becomes necessary for the Company to contract out a particular portion of its work load or requirements, the Company agrees to discuss, with the Union, the nature and scope of the work to be done.
15.1.1	It is agreed that members af the bargaining unit shall not be laid off as a result of work which they are qualified to perform being contracted out to other sources.
ARTICLE XVI • DURATION OF AGREEMEKC
1610 This Agreement shall become effective as af October 8. 1996, shall remain in full force and effect until October 7, 1999 and shall be automatically renewed for a period d one (1) year unless notice in writing is given by either party to the other for modification or termination during the period of ninety (90) calendar days prior to the expiry date of October 7. 1999
16.2.0	Within three (3) months of the expiry of this Agreement, either party may give notice to the other party, in writing, of its intention to negotiate a renewal af this Agreement.
Within ten (10) working days of receipt d such notice, both parties will meet and exchange proposed modifications or revisions of this Agreement.
Both parties shall thereupon enter into negotiations in good faith and make every reasonable effort to secure such a renewal.
16.3.0	The notices providedfor in Article XVI
shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by registered mail addressed, if to the Company, to: The Canadian Salt Company Limited, Pugwash, Nova Scotia, and if to the Union to:	The President, Local 823,
Chemical, Energy and Paperworkers Union, Pugwash, Nova Scotia.
56
SCHEDULE "A"
CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATES
	Effect.	Effect	Effect
Mine Deoartment	Oct.8/96	Oct.8/97 Oct.8/96	
Hoistman	18.63	19.00	19.44
Shaftsman	17.49	17.84	18.28
Miner	17.29	17.63	18.07
Miners' Dry Attendant	16.83	17.16	17.60
N|j|l Department			
Dispatcher	16.94	P.28	17.72
Dispalcher/Helper	16.43	16.76	17.20
Checker/Loader	16.46	16.79	17.23
Mobile Equipment Operator	16.38	16.70	17.15
Conveyor Floor Attendant	16.46	18.79	17.23
Truck Scale Attendant	16.46	16.79	17.23
Marine Terminal Operator	16.23	16.55	16.99
Warehouseman/B agger	16.10	16.42	16.86
Fine Salt Department			
Shift Engineer 2nd Class	16.83	19.21	19.65
Shift Engineer 3rd Class	17.96	18.32	18.76
Pan Operator	17.96	18.32	18.76
Briner	16.52	16.85	17.29
Sr. Pkg. Machine Operator	16.44	16.77	17.21
Daily Mill Operator	16.22	16.54	16.98
Screen/Mixer Attendant	17.01	17.35	17.79
Warehouseman/Bagger	16.10	16.42	16.86
Maintenance Department			
Journeyman	18.68	19.05	19.49
1st. Class	17.59	17.94	18.38
2nd. Glass	16.93	17.27	17.71
3rd. Class	16.71	17.04	17.48
Preventive Maint. I	17.59	17.94	18.38
Preventive Maint. II	16.93	17.27	17.71
r>7
PREMIUMS
SHIFT
A shift premium will be paid in addition to the applicable wage rate, whenever an employee works the following shifts:
Effective Oct. 8/96	4-12	$0.42/hr.
	12-8	$0.49/hr.
Effective Oct. 8/97	4-12	$0.43/hr.
	12-8	$0.50/hr.
Effective Oct. 8/98	4-12	$0.44/hr.
	12-8	$0.51/hr.
PREMIUM "A"
For employees other than Miners, Hoistmen, Shaftsmen, working underground, on hoist cables, headframe below sheave deck.,$0.29/hour.
PREMIUM “B"
Working in the shaft, on sheave deck or above, hanging, lowering and removing material from beneath the skip and performing maintenance work on No. 6 conveyor at the Marine Terminal -$0.40/hour.
No pyramiding of Premium "A" and "B“.
58
PREMIUM "C"
Fine Salt Manufacture employees, (excepting shift engineers) with 4th Class Engine Operator’s certificate will be paid $0.10/hour over their regular rate for a twelve (12) month period providing they continue their studies toward obtaining their 3rd Class Certificate.
Employees, excepting Shift Engineers, with 3rd Class Engine Operator's Certificate (Full Ticket) will be paid $0.15/hour above their regular rate.
Employees, excepting Shift Engineers, with 2nd Class Engine Operator's Certificate will receive $0.20/hour over and above their regular rate.
PREMIUM "D”
Working inside Fine Salt Plant Boilers, removal or replacement of boiler casing or insulation and removal, repair or replacement of soof blower lances. The economizer is considered part of the Fine Salt Plant Boilers - $0.35/hour.
PREMIUM "E"
Miner handling or firing explosive.
Miner operating Rock Drill.
High Pressure Washer - $0.18/hour.
59
CERTIFIED HIGH PRESSURE WELDERS
The existing High Pressure Welder will receive $1.00/hr. when performing work requiring High Pressure Welding Certification.
Employees who, at the request of the Company, hold certification in a second recognized trade, will receive a premium of $0.35/hr. for all hours worked.
WORKING LEADERS
Working leaders shall be included under the coverage of this Agreement and shall receive $1.00/hour more than the rate ofthe highest ranking job in the group being led.
RETROACTIVE PAY
All employees on strength as of October 8, 1996, will be paid retroactively where applicable:
-	Wage adjustment
-	Classification changes Shift Premiums Premium 'A
-	Safety Footwear
-	Safety Glasses
•	Life insurance revision	to	$5,000 for
pensioners to October	8,	1996
Pension Plan revision regarding bridging for retirement due to disability, October 8, 1996.
61
EMPLOYEE GROUP BENEFIT PLAN
It is agreed that the application of the Employee Group Benefits comprised of Ihe Group Life Assurance Plan (as amended October 8,1996), the Pension Plan (as amended October 8, 1996), Sun Life Medicare Supplement Insurance (effective January 1, 1994) and the Disability Wage Plan (amended October 8,1993) shall continue i n respect if the employees of said works.
The Company agrees that the aforementioned coverages will continue without further change during the term of this Agreement, unless such changes are agreed to between the Company and the Union.
62
THE CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED Pugwash, Nova Scotia
A W. DAVIDSON Facility Manager
L, R, HARTLING Personnel/Labour Relations Manager

fr-tS t-j/j-t/V '
COMMUNICATION, ENERGY, PAPERWORKERS UNION Pugwash Salt, Local 823
A: 7/[.
BRYNE MACINTYRE President, Local 823
ROBERT CARTER .	.G^JSTTr
Maintenance
KEVIN McKELLAR	.....
Rock Salt Mill
GARTH REID Fine Salt
GLEN BOYD Underground
MAX MICHAUD (
National Represerlfative d.E.P.
Q
/JyPP. ...
63
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
- FINE SALT PLANT -
Notwithstanding Article VIII (8.1.3) during periods of low production requirements cf Evaporated Salt, the Company will have the option of instituting, for Pan Operators only, a Monday through Friday shift schedule comprising twelve (12) hour shifts and averaging forty (40) hours/week over a three (3) week cycle.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SHIFT ENGINEERS -
Upon completion of each class of Operator’s Ticket granted by the Department of Labour, Province of Nova Scotia, the Shift Engineer will be eligible for a bonus payment of $200.
This applies only to Shift Engineers who are in the full time employ of the Canadian Salt Company Limited, Pugwash, N. S. at the time the ticket is granted and who have accumulated the hours necessary for such class cf ticket at this Plant.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
- EQUALIZATION OF OVERTIME -
It is agreed that the following guidelines will be used to administer the Equalization of Overtime System as set out in Article VIII of the Collective Agreement.
(t) All employees, except those who have signed out of the System, who are requested to work Overtime will be charged with having worked or refused.
(2)	Overtime which is the result of a penalty payment, such as Company initiated change of shift will not be charged.
(3)	An employee may waive his rights to "Equalization of Overtime" by completing Form No. 5308.
(4)	When an employee elects to sign out of the System, the difference in "total hours worked & refused" between himself and the highest total (in his classification) will be recorded.
When re-entering the system, this differential will be maintained. Should the employee signing out of the system be the highest in total hours worked/refused, then the difference between himself and the next highest total will be maintained.
65
(5)	An employee who is signed out of the System will not be requested to work until all other qualified employees within his classification have been asked.
(6)	The total hours worked and refused for all employees will be reduced to 0 on January 1 of each year.
(7)	Employees who are eligible for overtime assignments shall be charged with overtime missed as provided for in 8.2.2 only to the extent to maintain a 24 hour differential between themselves and the employee within their classification who has the highest overtime worked and refused total.
66
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
- MAINTENANCE -
APPRENTICESHIP AND PROMOTIONS
Many of the Trades under the Province of Nova Scotia 'Trades & Apprenticeship Division of the Department of Labour" are recognized by the Company as being applicable to the Maintenance Department.
From time to time it may be practical and desirable to fill positions which are vacant or may become vacant with applicants from within the Plant who are interested in entering the Trades Apprenticeship Program.
These applicants who are deemed qualified by The Company will be hired or transferred into the Maintenance Department at the level of 3rd Class and will be entered into the Trades Apprenticeship Program.
Notwithstanding Article XIII (13.3.0), employees who transfer to Maintenance 3rd Class and are entered into the Trades Apprenticeship Program may be returned or elect to be returned to their previous classification if they are not successful in attaining an established standard in Block I of their particular trade.
67
Employees enrolled in a Trades Apprenticeship Program will be eligible for promotion on the following basis:
-3rd Class to 2nd Class - 12 months of service in the Maintenance Department plus successful completion of 1st year Trade School.
-2nd Class to 1st Class - 24 months of service in the Maintenance Department plus successful completion of 2nd year Trade School.
-1st Class to Journeyman - 48 months of service in the MaintenancePepartmentplus Journeyman certification in one of the above trades.
Applicants, who hold certification in a recognized trade or who in the opinion of the Company have equivalent experience, will be hired or transferred into the Maintenance Department at the level of 2nd Class.
Promotions of this group holding certification or equivalent experience in a recognized trade will be on the following basis:
-2nd Class to 1st Class - upon acquiring seniority within the Maintenance Department.
-1st Class to Journeyman - 15 months of satisfactory service within the Maintenance Department.
68
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
- VACATION -
When an employee, while on vacation, suffers a major illness, injury or family crisis, the Company agrees to discuss with a view to rescheduling the vacation period.
Each case will be judged on its own merits and in all cases the Company's decision will be final.
LETTER CF UNDERSTANDING VACATION - LAY-OFF
The Company and Union agree to expand the interpretation of Clause 12.1.9 to allow an employee, while still on lay-off, to waive all or pari of his vacation entitlement and be paid in lieu thereof.
The amount of vacation time waived must not be greater than the period of lay-off within the vacation year.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
TOWER OPERATOR
The employee assigned to act as Tower Operator during boat loading operations will be paid a rate equal to the classification cf Checker Loader.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BRINERS 12 HOUR SHIFT
Following an agreed schedule, three (3) employees will work 12 hour shifts, 6 a.m. - 8 p.m. at regular time, for an average of 40 hours per week, over a three week cycle.
Holidays that occur while employees are working this schedule will be paid at 12 hour each.
This schedule will remain in effect as long as the Mine Department continues to hoist on a 12 hour/day production cycle and as long as there is a requirement for brine. A change in either <f these factors will allow the Company to return the Brine Classification to a regular 8 hour shift schedule without penalty.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SHAFTSMAN - OVERTIME
It is agreed that the Company may schedule employees within the classification of Shaftsman to overtime assignments within the classification of Miner and that this may occur even when all of the employees within the classification of Miner have not been scheduled to work.
All overtime worked and refused by employees within a classification will be credited to that classification.
71
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
PANOPERATORS
During periods of unusually high production demands and/or limitedstafF availability for extended shifts, it is mutually agreed that payment for hours worked will be the greater of.
1)	Existing contract provisions covering 5 day, 12 hour shift schedules
or
2)	For the period 12:01 a.m. Monday - 12:00 midnight Sunday of each week:
First 40 hours	- Regular Time
40 hrs. - 52 hr$.	- Time & One Hail
52 hrs to 12:00 f/Sdncft Suxfy	-	Date Tme
Employees will be advised when this provision is in effect
72
LETTER OF INTENT
FIELD SERVICE POOL PLAN
The Company hereby agrees to establish a joint committee comprised of six (6) members, three (3) of which will represent the Company and three (3) of which will represent the Union. The mandate of this joint committee will be to explore the feasibility of creating a 'field service pool'.
By June 30, 1997, this joint committee will make recommendations to the Facility Manager which will include rules of operation and a plan for implementation. This date may be extended upon mutual agreement of the patties.
If, in the opinion of the Facility Manager, the plan is feasible, the Company agrees to implement, on a trial basis, for a period tf one year.
At any time during this trial period, either party may request to terminate the process. Priorto the termination, however, either party may request the joint committee to conduct a review and, if possible, offer further recommendations.
In all cases, the final decision to terminate or continue the process remains with the Facility Manager.
73
SENIORITY/PLANT SERVICE LIST
MAINTENANCE
Payroll	Name	Seniority
No.		Date
137		Jul. 4/71
66		Jun 8/73
135		Jun 17/73
33		Sept. 12/73
169		Feb. 19/74
186		Feb. 23/74
173		Sept.23/74
157		OCt. 7/74
183		Mar. 8/75
107		Mar. 17/75
129		Jun. 9/75
83		sept 19/75
136		Oct. 14/75
153		Nov. 10/75
196		NOV. 23/75
115		Dec. 13/76
184		Dec. 20/76
15		Sept. 8/77
174		Nov. 6/17
213		Feb. 21/79
154		May 11/79
162		May 11/79
247		Sept 30/79
10		May 16/80
50		Dec. 9/80
2		Sept 28/85
6		Oct 5/85
39		Oct 31/86
		74
Plant
Service
Date
Jai 4/71 May28/73 Jun. 4/73 Jun. 19/70 Sept17/73 Jul. 3/13 Nov. 15/66 Sept 30/74 Feb. 24/75 Nov. 22/65 Dec. 9/74 Sept 8/75 Dec. 13/56 Nov. 5/75 NOV. 14/75 Apr. 16/74 Jurt 22/73 Jan 14/39 Jan 17/71 Jan. 29/79 May 24/74 Oct 12/78 Sept 10/79 Nov. 28/58 Aig. 6/74 Sept. 9/85 Sept 16/85 Oct 20/86
SENIORITY/PLANT SERVICE UST
MAINTENANCE - Page 2
Payroll Name	Seniority
tfo.	Dale
70	Dec. 6/88
206	Jan. 1/89
88	Jun. 25/89
104	sept. 29/89
103	Oct 2/89
67	Sept 4/91
90	Dec. 2/92
156	Aug. 3/93
1	Feb. 13/95
105	Sept. 5/95
125	Dec 4/95
53	Sept. 24/96
108	Oct 15/96
126	Oct 29/96
75
Plant
Service
Dale
Nov. 9/88 Dec. 5/88 Jun. 13/89 Sept 18/89 Sept 18/89 Sept 3/91 Nov. 30/92 Jan. 20/77 Feb. 13/95 Sept 5/95 Dec 4/95 July 7/87 Oct. 15/96 Oct. 28/96
SENIORITY/PLANT SERVICE LIST
MINE
Payroll wn	Name	Seniority Date	Plant Service Date
99		Aug. 1/58	Aug. 1/58
101		Nov. 23/63	Jan. 4/63
61		Jan. 14/67	Nov. 18/66
4		Mar. 2/12	Feb 14/72
182		Feb. 27/73	Jan. 31/73
41		Jun. 10/73	May 16/73
31		Apr. 16/74	nov. 28/73
55		Nov. 4/74	Nov. 4/14
185		Feb. 11/75	Feb. 11/75
16		Mar. 3/75	Mar. 3/75
122		Apr. 2/75	Apr. 2/75
13		Jan. 12/76	Jan. 7/76
24		Feb. 28/77	Feb. 28/77
116		Apr. 27/77	Apr. 27/77
26		May 2/17	May 2/77
114		May 8/78	Jun 29/77
145		Oct 12/78	Oct 12/78
207		Dec. 18/78	Dec 18/78
209		Jan. 2/79	Jan. 2/79
202		Jan 3/79	Oct. 20/78
241		Sept 7/79	Sept 7/79
240		Oct 1/79	Sept 5/79
128		Jan. 11/81	Jan. 8/81
139		Jan. 13/81	Jan. 12/81
23		Jul. 28/86	Jul. 28/86
7		Jut 28/86	Jul. 28/86
52		Jul.19/88	Jul. 19/88
3		Sept 29/88	Jul. 26/88
76
SENIORITY/PLANT SERVICE UST
MINE - Page 2
Payroll No.	Name	Seniority Date
64		Oct. 1/88
44		May 10/89
54		May 10/89
58		May 10/89
80		Jm. 5/89
89		Jun. 20/89
102		Sepl. 25/89
100		Mar. 19/90
42		Mar. 20/90
40		Sept. 22/94
51		Jun. 27/95
111		Jun. 27/95
110		Jun. 27/95
59		Jul. 10/95
57		Jul. 10/95
146		Jul. 21/95
147		Jul. 21/95
152		Jul. 7/96
150		Jul. 7/96
151		Jul. 8/96
194		Jul. 11/96
193		Jul. 11/96
77
Plant
Service
Date
Jul. 27/88 May 3/89 May 3/89 May 3/89 May 29/89 Jun. 13/89 Jul. 31/89 Mar 19/90 Mar. 20/90 Apr. 24/90 Jun. 27/95 Jun. 27/95 Jun. 27/95 Jul. 10/95 Jul. 10/95 Jul. 17/95 Jul. 17/95 Jun. 24/96 Jun. 24/96 Jun. 24/96 Jun. 28/96 Jun. 28/96
SENIORITY/PLANT SERVICE LIST
FINE SALT
Payroll NO.	Name	Seniority Date	Plant Service —Date	
48		Jan. 9/65	Oct 19/64
62		Mar. 5/65	Feb. 15/65
183		Mar. 19/65	Feb. 19/65
192		Nov. 2/68	Jul. 9/68
87		Jun. 29/73	Jin 6/73
149		Jul. 4/B	Jun. 14/73
198		Nov. 1/73	Sept 5/73
177		May 24/74	May. 24/74
9		Oct. 13/74	Oct. 11/74
73		Apr 14/75	Apr. 14/75
160		Jun. 13/75	Jun. 13/75
91		Jul. 15/75	Jul. 15/75
34		Jul. 29/75	Jul. 29/75
97		Jul. 24/78	Jul. 24/78
179		Oct 16/78	Oct. 16/78
227		Jun. 19/79	Jun. 19/79
5		Jun. 30/80	Jun. 30/80
14		Aug. 13/80	Aug. 13/80
186		Aug. 15/80	Aug. 13/80
181		Jul. 28/82	Jul. 28/82
32		Jul. 29/86	Jul. 26/86
25		Jut 26/88	JU 2608
65		Aug. 22/88	Aug. 22/88
92		Jut 22/89	May 16/86
72		Apr. 25/90	Apr. 25/90
118		Jin 18/90	Jun. 18/90
117		Jun. 21/90	Jun. 21/90
76		Feb. 10/92	Fetx 10/92
78
SENIOHITY/PLANT SERVICE UST
FINE SALT - Page 2
Payroll Ns.	Name	Seniority Date	Plant Service Date
112		Jun. 29/95	Dec. 1/94
109		Jun. 19/95	Dec 1/94
197		Jun. 20/95	Jan. 9/95
121		Nov. 13/95	Nov. 13/95
79
SENIORITY/PLANT SERVICE LIST
ROCK SALT MILL
Payroll No.	Name	Seniority Date	Plant Service Dale
27		Nov. 21/55	Nov. 21/55
93		Nov. 16/65	Oct 8/65
81		Aug. 28/70	Oct 10/70
120		Jan. 1/71	Dec. 15/70
74		Nov. 4/72	Oct. 20/72
98		Nov. 12/72	Oct. 25/72
47		Oct. 9/74	Oct. 9/74
22		Jun. 111/85	Jun. 18/75
8		Oct. 14/75	Oct. 14/75
18		Sept 28/76	Sept 27/76
159		NOV. 30/76	Nov. 4/76
63		Aug. 12/77	Jun. 20/77
138		Jun. 19/78	Jun. 19/78
106		Aug. 18/73	Aug. 18/78
208		Deo. 29/78	Dec. 29/78
210		Jan. 3/79	Jan. 3/79
223		May 7/79	May 7/79
233		Jul. 4/79	Jul. 4/79
244		Sept 11/79	Sept 11/79
245		Sept 12/79	Sept 12/79
11		Jli 31/80	JuL 31/80
69		Oct 14/80	Oct 14/80
49		Nov. 18/85	Sept 16/80
35		Aug. 7/86	Aug. 7/86
37		Aug. 7/86	Aug. 7/86
38		Aug. 11/86	Aug. 11/86
36		Jul. 26/88	Jul. 26/88
17		Jul 26/88	Jul 26/88
80
SEMORITY/PLANT SERVICE UST
ROCK SALT MILL -Page 2
Payroll No.	Name	Seniority Dale
96		Jul. 24/89
94		Oct. 22/90
95		Oct. 22/90
84		Nov. 9/92
113		Oct. 16/94
119		Oct. 17/94
124		Nov. 19/94
29		Oct 30/95
82		Oct 10/96
131		Nov. 25/96
127		Nov. 25/96
130		Nov. 25/96
81
Plant Service Dale Jli 24/89 Jun. 26/89 Jun. 26/89 May. 29/90 Jul. 11/94 Jul. 13/94 Nov. 17/94 Jun. 27/95 Jul. 18/96 Nov. 25/96 Nov. 25/96 Nov. 25/96
SUBJECT INDEX
(A)	CLAUSE	PAGE
Absence - Union Leave of	5.5.0	13
■ Reprimands	8.7.0	29
- Employee Agreement	8.6.3	29
- Application	2.1.0	6
• Duration	16.1.0	56
■ Notice to enter into 16.2.0	16.3.0	56
Alcohol & Drug Abuse	14.1.1	51
Appication	2.1.0	6
Arbitration	Article VII	19
- Single Arbitrator	75.0	20
- Discharge & Suspension	7.5.0	20
• Expense	7.3.0	19
(B)		
Bereavement Leave	Artide X	32
- Spouse/Chikt	10.1.7	33
- Common Law Spouse	10.1.8	33
Benefit Package • Group Benefit Plan		62
Bulletin Boards	4.2.0	9
(C)		
Calendar Days • Seniority	13.1.0	46
cal Out	8.5.0	27
Change of Production Schedule	855	24
Change of Shift	85.4	25
- LOSS of Hours	8.3.7	26
- Company Initiated	8.3.8	26
■ Mutual Exchange	8.4.0	27
Check Off	3.1.0	8
Chief Shop Steward	5.3.1	11
82
SUBJECT NDEX - Continued
	CLAUSE	PAGE
Classification - Loss of	13.3.6	48
Committeemen • Payment • stage 3	6.4.3	17
Company • Recognition	2.2.0	6
Contracting Out	15.10	55
Conveyor Floor Attendant	9.2.0	30
Coveralls	14.2.0	52
Committee • Duties	5.4.0	12
■ Grievance	5.2.0	11
	6.4.0	17
■ J.O.H.& S.	14.1.2	51
■ Negotiating	5.1.0	11
- Safety Compensation	14.1.3	51
■ Grievance	6.4.0	19
- Negotiations	5.1.1	12
(D)		
Demotion - Elimination of Job	9.3.0	30
Discrimination, Intimidation, etc.	43.0	9
Disciplinary Action - Advising Employee	63.0	17
Oues • Union	3.1.0	8
(E)		
Employee Group Benefit Plan		62
Employees Not Covered by Agreement Employees on Lay-Off	2.1.0	6
■ Righi to replace probationary employees Employment	13.6.2	50
■ Temporary in another department	13.6.0	49
(F)		
Foremen and Supervisors not working	9.4.0	31
83
PAGE
SUBJECT INDEX - Continued
CLAUSE
<G)		
Gender Neutral	1.1.3	5
Grievance Committee	5.2.0	11
Grievance Committeemen		
- Payment of Stage 3	6.4.0	17
Grievance- Discharge	6.15	16
• Guide for Arbitrator	7.5.0	20
• Procedure	Article VI	15
- Probationary	6.1.6	16
- Personal	6.3.0	17
(H)		
Hazardous Condition	14.2.2	53
Health & Safety - Promotion	1.1.0	5
Hoidays	Article XI	35
- 'Banking of	11.2.1	39
- Continuous Shift Workers	11.1.3	37
• During Vacation	12.1.12	44
- Floater	11.1.4	38
- Loss of	11.1.2	37
Hours of Work	2.2.0	6
- Regular Hours of Wferk	8.1.1	21
- Continuous 12 Hour Shift	8.1.3	21
(1)		
Immediate Family - Definition	10.1.4	33
investigating & Settlement of Grievance		
- Time Off	5.4.0	12
- Procedure	5.4.1	12
84
SUBJECT INDEX • Continued
	CLAUSE	PAGE
(J)		
Job ■ Permanently Eliminated	9.3.0	30
Job Posting	133.1	47
J.O.H.S. Committee	14.1.2	51
Jury Duty	10.2.0	34
	10.2.1	34
(L)		
Labour Standards Code	1.1.1	5
Leave if Absence		
• MVA Violation	10.3.0	34
- Union Business	5.5.0	13
• President* Secretary Meetings	5.4.0	12
- Personal	12.1.16	45
• Vacation	12.1.9	43
Letters of Understanding - Policy	2.4.1	7
- Briner 12 Hour Shift		70
- Equalization of Overtime		65
- fine Salt Plant		64
- Maintenance		67
- Pan Operators, Overtime		72
- Shaftsman		71
- Shift Engineer Training Bonus		64
- Tower Operator		70
- Vacation/Vacation Lay-Off		69
Lock Out	4.4.1	10
Loss of Regular Hours	8.3.7	26
(M)		
Management Rights	2.2.0	6
Meetings - Notification	5.6.0	14
- Tine Off	5.4.0	12
Membership - Union	4.2.D	9
85
PAGE
SUBJECT INDEX - Continued
CLAUSE
Mutual Exchange of Shifts	8.4.0	27
Mutual Exchange of Shifts
• 12 Hour Workers	8.4.1	27
<N)
Negotiating Committee	5.1.0	ft
Negotiation Committee Compensation	5.1.1	If
Notices	-	Bulletin Boards	4.2.0	9
•	Job Vacancy	13.3.1	47
•	Meetings	5.6.0	14
■	New Employees	3.2.0	8
No Work Available - Reporting	8.5.1	28
No Pyramiding Overtime Payments	8.5.2	28
(O)
Overtime	■	Change in Posted Schedule	8.3.8	26
.	- Continuous Workers	88.18 888	24
-	Continuous 12 Hour	8.3.9	26
•	Distribution	8.2.1	22
•	Disiribution, 12 Hour Workers 8.3.2	24
■	Executive Members	53.1	11
■	5 Days/12 hours	83.9	26
-	Holidays	113.0	39
- Probationary Employee 113.0	40
-	Notice of Availability	8.2.5	24
•	Probationary Employees	11.2.0	39
-	Qualification	8.3.5	25
•	Saturday & Sunday	83.0	24
-	work	8.2.0	22
Overtime Lunches
-	Regular Shift	143.0	54
-	Continuous Shift	143.1	54
86
SUBJECT INDEX - Continued
	CLAUSE	PAGE
(P)		
Pan Operators Shift Schedule	8.13	21
Payroll Deductions	3.1.0	8
Posting Job Vacancy	13.3.1	47
Premiums		58
Promotions • Maintenance Dept.		
(Letter ot Understanding)		67
Promotion, Relief, Demotion	13.2.0	46
Protective Clothing	14.2.0	52
(R)		
Rules and Regulations	2.3.0	
(S)		
Safely	Article XIV	51
■ Committee • General	14.1.3	51
• Equipment	14.2.0	52
	14.2.1	53
■ Hazardous Conditions	14.22	53
■ Shoes, Glasses, Etc.	14.2.0	52
Seniority	Article XIII	46
• By Draw	13.1.1	46
- Divisional Lists	13.3.0	46
■ Hoistmen	13.4.0	48
- Loss Of	13.5.0	49
• Promotion/Demotion	13.2.0	46
■ Status	13.1.0	46
Seniority Lists		
- Fine Salt		78
■ Maintenance		74
■ Mine		76
■ Rock Salt Mill		80
87
PAGE
SUBJECT INDEX ■ Continued
CLAUSE
Service - Re: Vacations	12.1.8	42
Shift Engineers - Bonus		
(Letter of Understanding)		64
Shift Schedule		
- Pan Operators/Shift Engineers	8.1.3	21
Slow Downs, etc.	4.4.0	10
Strikes	4.4.0	10
Students	13.3.5	48
Supervisory- Transferring i	13.7.0	50
ro		
Technical & Process Improvement	2.40	7
Temporary Classification ■ Working In	9.2.0	30
Transfers, Lay-Off, efc	13.2.0	46
Travel ■ MacLeod Lake, Manne Terminal	14.4.0	54
Truck Scale Attendant	9,2.0	30
(U>		
Union Business		
- Meeting Time	5.4.0	12
■ Grievance Meetings	6.4.0	17
Union Executive & Officers, Notify Company	5.3.0	11
Union Membership & Dues	4.1.0	9
Union President- Day Shift	5.4.0	12
Union Recognition	2.1.1	6
(V)		
Vacations	Article XII	41
• Entitlement	12.1.3- 12.1.7	41
- Pay Requirement	12.1.13	44
86