AGREEMENT
Between
THE CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED
PUGWASH WORKS
Nova Scotia
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY, AND PAPERWORKERS UNION
PUGWASH SALT LOCAL 823
ELLECTIVE OCTOBER 8, 1993 EXPIRES OCTOBER 7, 1996
1
00232 (05)
AGREEMENT
ENTERED INTO THIS SEVENTEENTH DAY OF DECEMBER - 1993
by and between
THE CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED, a Company having an office at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, hereinafter called “The Company“, and acting herein with respect only to its Pugwash Works, hereinafter referred to as "said works”.
AND
COMMUNICATION, ENERGY, AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, PUGWASH SALT LOCAL 823, located at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, hereinafter referred to as “The Union”.
2
INDEX
Page No.
Preamble Article Kb.
Purpose Recognition Check Off Co Operation Representation Grievance Procedure Arbitration
Hours c£ Wcik Ac Overtime Wages Classification Bereavement, Jury Duty Holidays Vacations Seniority Safety and Health Contracting Out Duration of Agreement Schedule "A" Classification and Wage Rates Premiums
Industrial Relations Plan Letters of Understanding:
-Fine Salt Plant
-Pan Oprerator Trainees
- S hift Engineers
-Equalization of Overtime
-Maintenance
-Vacation
-Tower Operator
-Briners 12 hour shift
I
n
in
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
XVI
1
4
6
9
10
12
16
21
23
34
36
39
45
51
58
63
63
65
66 69
71
72
73
74 76
79
80 80
a
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.1.0	The Company and the Union have entered into this Agreement at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, for the purpose of recording terms and conditions of eBployoent, resulting from collective bargaining, which are to be observed by the parties hereto. It is their desire to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and the Union, to settle all differences in an amicable manner as herein provided, and to work together to promote the safety and health of the employees and to achieve the most efficient operation of the works.
1.1.1	In any case where the benefits provided under the Labour Standards Code and Regulations cf the Province of Nova Scotia are found to be greater than those provided in this Agreement, then the benefits provided under that Code shall Apply.
4
1.1.2	This Agreement shall conform to the existing Occupational Health and Safety Act, Province of Nova Scotia and both parties agree to co-operate in the observance of this Act.
1.13 New Except where the context otherwise requires, words or expressions used in this Agreement denoting the masculine gender shall be read as including the feminine gender.
5
ARUCLE II - RECOGNITION
2.1.0 This Agreement shall apply to all the employees of the Company with the exception of Classifications listed below:
Management, Office and Stores Staff,
Supervisory Employees above and including the rank of Foremen.
Technical Engineers, Laboratory Staff and Assistants
Temporary and Probationary Employees, Guards, Gatemen and Watchmen,
Office Janitorial Staff.
2.1.1 The Company recognizes the Union during the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, as the exclusive bargaining agent for the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to hours of work, rates of pay arid other conditions of employment as set forth in this Agreement.
6
2.2.0	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to manage the said works and direct the working forces including the right to hire, promote or transfer any employee and to demote, suspend, discipline or discharge any employee for just cause. In interest of the efficient operation of the said works, the Union agrees that the Company may change hours of work, determine or change work assignments or methods and select the materials to be handled, processed or manufactured and to determine all other matters concerning the operation of the Company's business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in the Agreement, and that any such action shall not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement and any such action which results in individual injustice, shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure.
2.3.0	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to make and to alter Prom time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by the employees. These rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
7
2.4.0	The Union further recognizes the right of the Company to incorporate all manner of technical and process improvements at any time, notwithstanding the fact that such inprovenents ray reduce the labour force required to operate the works. Such reductions shall be consistent with qualifications and seniority rights.
8
ARTICLE III - CHECK-OFF
3.1.0	The Company will deduct from the pay of each employee the monthly dues, initiation fees and other assessments and dues authorized by the Secretary-Treasurer and the President of the Union. The amounts of such deductions shall be deposited by the Company into the Union's Bank account no later than the 14th day following the month for which the deductions were made. A record of those from whose pay the deductions were made shall be submitted to the Union.
3.2.0	The Company shall notify the Union in writing, the names, classifications and rates of pay of all new employees upon hiring.
3.3.0	The Company will notify the Union in writing within three (3) days of an attempt to recall a laid-off employee.
9
ARTICLE IV - CO-OPERATION
4.1.0	All new employees must take out and maintain Union membership within five (5) working days from the date of employment with the Company.
4.2.0	The Company agrees that the Union may use the Company's Bulletin Boards, located throughout the said Works, provided that the use by the Union of the Bulletin Boards shall be restricted to the posting thereon only of such notices as have received the approval in writing of the Company prior to posting and that the subject matter of such notices shall be restricted to matters pertaining to recreational or social activities, notices of meetings or notices of the results o£ elections in connection with affairs of the said Union, and provided further that no notice shall be posted which contains advertising or political matter. (Every effort shall be made both by the Company and the Union not to interfere unreasonably with each other's use of the boards.)
10
4.3.0	There shall be no discrimination, intimidation, interference, restraint, coercion or attempted coercion by or on behalf of the Company or by or on behalf of the Union, its members or its agents regarding any employee because of membership or non membership in the Union, nor because of his race, colour, creed, religious or political beliefs. No employee shall, however, conduct Union activities during working hours except as specifically permitted in this Agreement.
4.4.0	The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize or sanction, nor permit its members to cause or take part in, any sit down, stay-in, or slowdown in any department, or any strike or stoppage of any of the Company's operation or any curtailment of work or restriction or interference with production or any picketing of the Company's premises during the term of this Agreement.
4.4.1	The Company agrees there shall be no lock out during the life of this Agreement.
11
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATION
5.1.0	The Company agrees to
recognize a Union negotiating committee of six (6) members, one (1) of whom shall be the local Union President and one (1) from each of the following departments:	Mine,
Rock Salt Mill and Shipping, Maintenance, and Fine Salt Plant. The sixth member of this Committee shall represent the Chemcial, Energy, and Paperworkers Union.
5.1.1	It is understood that compensation to the employee committee members for regular wages lost in connection with re-negotiation of this Agreement shall be made by the Company. The Company's obligation to pay for lost time shall cease at such time as a Conciliation Officer is present.
5.2.0	The Company also agrees to recognize a Grievance Committee of six (6) members, one (1) of whcm shall be the local Union President and one (1) from each of the following departments:	Mine, Rock Salt
Mil and Shipping, Maintenance, and Fine Salt Plant. The sixth member c£ this committee shall represent the Chemical, Energy, and Paperworkers Union.
12
5.3.0	The Union agrees to notify the Company in writing of the names of the local Union officers, committeemen, and shop stewards and the effective dates of their elections or appointments.
5.4.0	It is understood and agreed
that the plant chairman, committeemen and shop stewards have their regular duties as employees to perform.	Such a
representative shall, however, after arrangement and with the consent of his Foreman, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, be permitted during his working hours, and without loss of time or pay, to leave his regular duties for a reasonable length of time in order to investigate and settle grievances in his jurisdiction.
The Union President shall be permitted to work on the Day Shift when such work is available within his own classification and for which he is qualified.
The Union President, Secretary Treasurer and Executive will be granted time off, without pay, to attend the regular monthly Union Meetings.
13
The request for such absence must be made to the Department Supervisor prior to the posting of the Weekly Schedule in which the meeting occurs.
When such absence, for executive members only, requires the payment of Overtime Premium in order to provide relief, then such time off may be denied.
5.4.1	Each Foreman shall maintain, on special forms to be supplied by the Company, a record of the actual time when the chairman, committeeman and shop steward leaves his regular duties when about to engage in the investigation or settlement of a grievance or grievances and of the actual time when he returns and resumes his regular duties. The Foreman and Union representative shall initial each entry of time on the said form.
5.5.0	The Company agrees that a leave of absence without pay shall be granted to any employee for Union business up to a maximum of sixty (60) working days in any one year. Seniority shall continue to accumulate during this period. The Union agrees to give the Company at least ten (10) days notice in writing c£ such
14
leave giving appropriate details. The Union agrees there shall not be more than two (2) employees on leave of absence for Union business at any one time and that such leaves shall not in any event exceed three (3) months in the aggregate during each one (1) year period of this Agreement.
5.5.1	In addition to Clause 5.5.0, an employee who is appointed to a full time position with the Union, shall be granted a Leave of Absence without pay, not to exceed twelve (12) months.
Upon Application, thirty (30) days prior to the end of such twelve month period or any subsequent twelve month period, the Leave of Absence will be extended for an additional twelve (12) months.
Seniority shall continue to accumulate during such periods.
5.6.0	The Company agrees to notify all committee members, in writing forty-eight (48) hours in advance of Company initiated Management Committee Meetings and to give as much notice as practicable for all other meetings or the cancellation of meetings that they are to attend.
15
ARTICLE VI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.1.0	Any dispute, grievance or misunderstanding (hereinafter called a "Grievance") which any employee or group of employees may wish to present to the Company shall be handled in the following manner.
6.1.1	Stage One:	Any employee
having a grievance shall first present it to his Foreman within a period of three (3) working days from the time that such an alleged grievance has arisen.	The
employee, if he so desires, may be accompanied by his shop steward. The foreman shall deal with the Grievance and shall render his decision not later than three (3) working days after he receives the grievance.
6.1.2	Stage Two:	If the foreman
does not settle	the matter to the
satisfaction c£ the employee under the provisions of Stage One hereof, the employee and, if he so desires, with his shop steward, shall take the matter up directly with the Superintendent, in writing, on forms provided by the Union, within three (3) working days. The decision at this stage should be in writing within three (3) working days. Copies will be sent to all Grievance Committee members.
16
6.1.3	Stage Three:	Should the
Shop Steward and the Employee be unable to secure a satisfactory settlement from the Superintendent within three (3) working days after the grievance has been submitted to him, the Union Grievance Committee shall, within three (3) working days submit to the Facility Manager a written request for a Third Stage meeting.
The Company and the Union shall then, within three (3) working days arrange a meeting. The Company shall, within three
(3)	working days after such meeting, submit its written reply to the Union.
6.1.4	Any allegation involving the misinterpretation or violation of any provision of this agreement may be lodged either by the Union or by the Company with the other party, in writing at Stage Three within ten (10) working days after the alleged misinterpretation or violation of the agreement has occurred. In the event of failure of the Company and the Union to agree on a settlement of the issue, it may be referred to arbitration by either party within ten (10) working days in accordance
with the provisions of Stage Four.
17
6.1.5	A Grievance arising Prom the discharge, or the suspension of (3) three working days or more, of an employee may be submitted at Stage Three of the Grievance procedure within three (3) working days after the discharge or suspension has occurred. Any employee, who has been found through the Grievance Procedure, to have been wrongfully discharged, shall be reinstated.
6.1.6	No grievance shall be lodged or prosecuted against the discharge by the Company of a probationary employee.
6.1.7	The aggrieved employee may attend any meetings at Stage Three.
6.1.8	Stage Four:	In the event of
failure to reach agreement at Stage Three, either party may submit the grievance to arbitration in accordance with Article VII. Such submission must be made within ten (10) working days after the grievance has been dealt with In Stage Three.
18
6.2.0	Saturdays, Sundays, Day off or Day of rest (for seven (7) day operations) and holidays shall not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken in each of the foregoing steps. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended at any time by mutual written agreement between the Company and the Union.
6.3.0	Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prevent an individual employee from presenting any of his personal grievances directly to the Company provided such grievances are not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
G.4.0 Committeemen, if on shift, and when granted leave of absence to engage in grievance procedure meetings with the Facility Manager at Stage Three only, shall not be penalized for loss of time or pay, provided the total time involved in all such meetings does not exceed eight (8) hours, for any one grievance.
19
6.5.0	The Company agrees that it has an obligation to deal as expeditiously as is reasonable in the application of discipline.
The Company shall, however, advise the employee of the disciplinary action to be taken as soon as a decision to that effect has been reached.
6.6.0	In imposing discipline on a current charge, Management will not take into account any prior infractions which occurred more than two (2) years previously.
20
ARTICLE VII - ARBITRATION
7.1.0	When either party decides to submit a grievance to arbitration, under 6.1.8, then the other party shall be so advised in writing. The Company and the Union shall then each appoint an arbitrator within ten (10) working days. The two (2) arbitrators shall endeavor to agree upon a third arbitrator to act as chairman of the arbitration board. If the third arbitrator be not chosen within ten (10) working days, then the Minister of Labour of the province of Nova Scotia shall be requested to assist in appointing an impartial chairman.
7.2.0	bb	person shall be
appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved previously in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
7.3.0	Each party shall pay the remuneration and expenses, if any, of the arbitrator appointed by such party and the remuneration and expenses of the third or single arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
7.4.0	The	proceedings of the
Arbitration Board shall be expedited by the Company and the Union. The decision of the majority of such Board shall be final
21
and binding upon the parties hereto, but the arbitrators shall not be authorized to make, nor shall they make, any decision or recommendation inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, in wage rates, nor deal with any matter not covered by this Agreement.
7.5.0	Grievances related to discharge and suspension of three (3) working days or more appealed to Arbitration, will be umpired by a single Arbitrator.
The party desiring to appeal a grievance under this section to Arbitration shall notify the other party, in writing, of its intent including the remedy sought.
Within ten (10) working days after the date of delivery of the foregoing notice, the parties shall meet to select an impartial Arbitrator.
Should the parties fail to agree within five (5) working days, the Minister cf Labour of the Province of Nova Scotia will be requested to appoint a person who shall umpire.
The Arbitrator shall hear the case as soon as possible.
22
ARTICLE VIII
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
8.1.0	The regular hours of work are stated solely for the purpose of calculating overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee of any minimum nor as a restriction on any maximum number of hours worked.
8.1.1	The regular hours of work for other than the continuous .twelve (12) hour shift or the continuous eight (8) hour shift shall be eight (8) consecutive hours per day, five (5) days a week Monday to Friday inclusive.
8.1.2	Continuous twelve (12) hour
shift:	Employee pay week is to be from
8:00 p.m. Sunday to 8:00 p.m. the following Sunday. Hours of work:
Day Shift - 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Night Shift -8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
23
8.1.3	Continuous twelve (12) hour
shift:
-	Pan Operators and Shift Engineers only
-	Regular hours of work shall be twelve (12) regular hours per day, three (3) and four (4) days per week for an average of forty-two (42) hours per week on a four (4) week cycle in accordance with the agreed shift schedule.
8.1.4	The Union recognizes that due to operational requirements, the Company may institute continuous eight (8) hour shift operations with four (4) regular rotating crews for shift engineers, pan operators and briners only. The regular hours of work for continuous seven (7) day operation shall be eight (8) hours per day, five (5) or six (6) days per week in accordance with the mutually agreed rotating shift schedule (twenty (20) week cycle) for an average forty-two (42) regular hours.
8.2.0	It is understood that because of the nature of the salt business, the operation of this works requires a certain amount of periodic overtime.
When considered necessary by the Company, employees shall be requested to perform overtime work in excess of the regular hours of work.
24
Employees with a justifiable reason, shall be excused from working overtime. However, it is agreed that if sufficient qualified employees are not voluntarily available, then one (1) or more of the above excused employees, having the lowest Overtime Worked Total, shall be required to work.
8.2.1	The Company shall endeavor as far as reasonable practicable over a period of four (4) months to distribute overtime equitably among qualified employees in the Department by classification in which such work becomes necessary.
Lists will be posted every four (4) months indicating, by Department, overtime worked and refused. Overtime will be recorded as equivalent straight time hours.
A copy of the Overtime Distribution List will be sent to the Union Executive Member in each Department weekly.
In the event of inequities of more than twenty-four (24) hours existing at the end of a four (4) month period they will be corrected by assigning overtime available to the applicable employee(s) as soon as practicable.
25
Reasonable effort will be made to contact eligible and available employees. If no contact can be made with an employee who does not have a phone, the employee will be considered as having refused overtime and be charged such time.
8.2.2	Employees eligible for overtime assignments shall be charged with overtime missed as a result <£
(a)	Disability due to sickness or accident.
(b)	Leave of Absence (except leaves for Union business).
(c)	Casual absences.
(d)	Suspensions.
8.2.3	Ai employee transferring from one classification to another shall be credited with the average overtime hours of the employees within his new classification.
8.2.4	Qi completion of his probationary period, a new employee will be credited with the average overtime hours of the employees in his classification.
8.2.5	In order to facilitate the equitable distribution of overtime and to ensure that personnel are available for overtime assignments, employees will be allowed up to twenty-four (24) hours from the time of posting to advise unavailability lor overtime assignments.
26
8.3.0	An employee whose working week is Monday to Friday inclusive, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked on Saturday and double time for all hours worked on Sunday.
8.3.1	Ai employee whose working week includes Saturday or Sunday or both (excepting as in 8.3.2) of these days shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked on his first day off and double time for all hours worked on his second day off.
8.3.2	For continuous twelve (12) Hour Shift Workers, any work in excess of three (3) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts will be paid at the rate of Time and One-half and any work in excess of four (4) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts will be paid at the rate of Double Time.
8.3.3	When, as a result of a change of production schedule (a) from a five (5) day week to a seven (7) day week or (b) from a seven (7) day week to a five (5) day week or (c) from a five (5) day week or a seven (7) day week to the continuous twelve (12) hour shift, an employee is required to work more than five (5) consecutive days, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the sixth day and double time for the seventh day.
27
8.3.4	When, as a result of a change of production schedule from a continuous twelve (12) hour shift to a five
(5)	or seven (7) day week, an employee is required to work in excess of three (3) or four (4) consecutive days, these excess days will be paid in accordance with clause 8.3.2.
8.3.5	Ai employee, except as noted in Clause 8.1.3 and 8.1.4 shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half calculated to the nearest half hour worked for all time worked:
(A)	In excess of eight (8) hours in any continuous period of twenty-four (24) hours, commencing at the employee's regularly scheduled starting time.
(B)	Between Sunday midnight and the employee's first scheduled shift of the week.
(C)	In excess of eight (8) hours if an employee does not have at least an eight (8) hour break period prior to his first scheduled shift of the week. The "Continuous period of twenty-four (24) hours" for the
28
first scheduled day of that week will commence with his actual starting time on Sunday rather than his scheduled starting time.	The
remainder of the week will be as outlined in (A) above.
8.3.6	An employee on the continuous twelve (12) hour shift shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half calculated to the nearest half hour worked for all time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in any continuous period of twenty-four (24) hours commencing at the employee's regular scheduled starting time.
8.3.7	Subject to the provisions c£
8.5.1	the Company agrees to compensate the employee for any loss of regular hours incurred as a result of a Company initiated change in the Posted Weekly Shift Schedule.
8.3.8	An employes will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the first shift only of a Company initiated change in a Posted Weekly Shift Schedule.
29
8.3.9	An employee acting in the capacity of a relief operator (Pan Operator or Shift Engineer) who is scheduled to work a combination of 8 hour and 12 hour shifts in a "Posted Weekly Schedule", shall be paid overtime for all hours in excess of 40.
8.4.0	An employee may, with the approval of the Company, arrange for a change of shift with another employee provided each employee will have at least an eight (8) hour break between shifts and the mutual exchange will not result in any additional overtime pay.
8.4.1	With the approval of the Company, employees on twelve (12) hour shifts may arrange for a mutual exchange of up to four (4) hours, provided that the right to any overtime payment, which may be incurred by the employee as a result of such change, is waived.
8.4.2	Employees who are not eligible for a mutual exchange of shifts as provided for in Article VIII (8.4.0) because of their particular job or classification, may under this Agreement now arrange for such change.
30
Prior approval of the Foreman must be received and the initial change or subsequent change back to the regular schedule will not result in any overtime payment.
8.5.0	An employee who is called in by the Company to perform work outside his normal hours of work shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours pay at the appropriate overtime rate calculated at the employee's basic rate or the job classification rate, whichever is the higher. However, no minimum payment shall apply when the hours so worked are continuous with the employee's regularly scheduled working hours.
8.5.1	Ai employee who reports for work on his regularly scheduled shift, and for wham no work is available, will be guaranteed four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay at his regular rate.
This provision shall not apply to employees who are returning to work after an absence or when such lack of work is due to the lateness of the employee, a labour dispute, fire, flood, power shortage, or other such cause beyond the control of the Company.
31
8.5.2	Overtime payments shall not be pyramided nor shall more than one basis for calculating overtime be used to cover the same hours.
8.6.0	Hoisting and lowering schedules for underground employees will be arranged to provide eight (8) hours from collar to collar for each shift, hut variations from such schedules, not exceeding fifteen (15) minutes which do not occur consistently, shall be disregarded. Delays in such schedules in excess of fifteen (15) minutes shall be considered time worked.
8.6.1	It is understood that all surface department employees shall be at their working place and ready to assume their duties at the commencement of their shift.
8.6.2	If, at the commencement of his scheduled shift, an employee is late, he shall be penalized to the extent of fifteen minutes for lateness of one to fifteen minutes, and to the extent of a further fifteen minutes for each succeeding period of lateness of one to fifteen minutes. The entries on the employee's Clock Card shall govern the application of this Clause.
32
8.6.3	If such an employee leaves his working place before the end of any scheduled working period, he shall be penalized to the extent of fifteen (15) minutes for early leaving for every quarter-hour or fraction thereof included in the period between the time when the employee left his working place and the end of such scheduled shift. The entries on the employee's Clock Card shall govern the application of this Clause.
8.7.0	Absence cf an employee without prior notice with reasonable excuse or without subsequent reasonable excuse, may on the first offence result in a reprimand by the Company. Qi the second offence, the employee may be suspended for a period decided upon by the Company, but not to exceed one (1) week. The third offence may result in discharge. Any reprimand for absence will be cancelled from the record cf an employee six (6) months after it is incurred.
33
ARTICLE IX - WAGES - CLASSIFICATION
9.1.0	The Classification of all occupations and wage rates appearing in Schedule "A" attached hereto, is made part of this Agreement and is signed for identification by the parties hereto. Any new occupation established during the term of this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in Schedule "A".
9.2.0	It is agreed that when an employee is assigned temporarily to perform work in a classification paying a lower rate than his own, he shall be paid at his regular rate, provided work is available for him at the time in his regular classification. If there is no work available in his own classification, such employee shall be paid the classification rate of the job to which he is temporarily assigned. Any employee, with the exception of those assigned as relief to the classification of Conveyor Floor Operator or Truck Scale Operator shall get the classification of the highest class of work he does any time during his regular shift.
For those employees acting as relief Conveyor Floor Operators or Truck Scale Operators, the higher rate shall apply only for the actual time assigned to that classification.
34
9.3.0	An employee who is to be
demoted because his job is to be permanently eliminated shall be given advance notice of ten (10) calendar days or in lieu of such notice, shall retain his previous rate for ten (10) calendar days.
9.4.0	It is the express policy of
the Company that Foremen, acting Foremen and	Supervisors shall not perform the
regular work of a member of the bargaining unit except:
(A)	In the case of emergency where immediate action is necessary in order to protect personnel or equipment;
(B)	For the purpose of instruction or training including demonstrating the proper method to accomplish the task assigned.
(C)	For the purpose of developing a method or technique;
(D)	For the purpose of checking operating conditions.
35
ARTICLE X - BEREAVEMENT - JURY DUTY
10.1.0	An employee who has attained seniority status and who suffers the bereavement of a member of his immediate family shall be granted a Leave of Absence with pay not to exceed three (3) days off or twenty-four (24) hours pay at straight time, subject to the following condition:
(A)	Attend the Funeral
10.1.1	Should the employee be unable to attend the funeral of a member of his immediate family, he shall be granted a Leave of Absence with pay for two (2) of the above mentioned days, provided satisfactory evidence of death is furnished to the Company.
10.1.2	An employee on the continuous twelve (12) hour shift who has attained seniority status and who suffers the bereavement of a member of his immediate family shall be granted a Leave of Absence with straight time pay not to exceed three (3) days cfE at twelve (12) hours per day, subject to the following conditions.
36
10.1.3 The days eligible for payment shall be three (3) days up to and including the day following the funeral. Such days must be scheduled working days of the employee who, but for the bereavement, would have worked on those days.
10.1.4	A member of the immediate family shall be defined as father or stepfather, mother or step-mother, current spouse, son, daughter, brother, sister, father-in-law or mother-in-law of the employee or any person who has acted in one of these capacities for at least the past two (2) years.
10.1.5	In the event an employee, who has attained seniority, suffers the bereavement of brother-in-law or sister-inlaw, grandparents or grand-children, the Company will grant one (1) day Leave of Absence with pay at straight time to attend the funeral provided the funeral takes place on the employee's scheduled working day.
10.1.6	In the event an employee suffers the bereavement of both his parent and step-parent during his employment with the Company, the employee shall be granted Leave of Absence under 10.1.4 in one case and 10.1.5 in the other.
37
10.2.0	An employee who is summoned and reports for Jury Duty or is subpoenaed by a court as a witness and appears in court shall be paid by the Company, an allowance equal to the difference between the employee's straight time earnings lost as a result of his jury service or appearance in court as a witness and the amount of jury or witness fees, excluding travelling allowance, paid by the court.
10.2.1	In order to qualify for such payment, the employee will be required to give the Company prior notice that he has been summoned for Jury Duty or subpoenaed as a witness and to furnish satisfactory evidence that Jury Duty was performed or that he attended as a witness on the days for which he claims such allowance.
10.3.0	Absence as a result of a conviction under either the Motor Vehicle Act or Sections 234, 234.1, 235, 23G, and 237 of the Criminal Code of Canada, shall be treated as Leaves of Absence without pay.
38
ARTICLE XI - HOLIDAYS
11.1.0	It is agreed that the following days shall be considered paid holidays during the Term of this Agreement for employees on the Seniority List:
1993
Thanksgiving Day Armistice Day Christmas Day Uoxing Day 24th/31 st
Monday, Oct. 11/93 Thursday, Nov. 11/93 Monday, Dec, 27/93 Tuesday, Dec. 28/93 Wednesday, Dec, 29/93 (For all employees)
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Miners' Mem. Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Emp. Birthday Thanksgiving Day Armistice Day Christmas Day Boxing Day 24th/31st
1994
Friday, Dec. 31/93 Friday, Apr. 1/94 Monday, Apr. 4/94 Monday, May 23/94 Monday, June 13/94 Friday, July 1/94 Monday, Aug. 1/94 Monday, Sept. 5/94 Sec Clause 11.1.4 Monday, Oct. 10/94 Friday, Nov. 11/94 Monday, Dec. 26/94 Tuesday, Dec. 27/94 Wednesday, Deo. 28/94 (For all employees)
39
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Miners' Mem, Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Emp. Birthday Thanksgiving Day Armistice Day Christmas Day Boxing Day 24th/31 st
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Miners'Mem.Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Emp. Birthday
1995
Friday, Dec. 30/94 Friday, Apr. 14/95 Monday, Apr. 17/95 Monday, May 22/94 Monday, June 12/95 Friday, June 30/95 Monday, Aug. 7/95 Monday, Sept. 4/95 See Clause 11.1.4 Monday, Oct. 9/95 Friday, Nov. 10/95 Monday, Dec. 25/95 Tuesday, Dec. 26/95 Wednesday, Dec. 27/95 (For all employees)
1996
Monday, Jan. 1/96 Friday, Apr. 5/96 Monday, Apr. 8/96 Monday, May 20/96 Monday, June 10/96 Monday,July 1/96 Monday, Aug. 5/96 Monday, Sept. 2/96 See Clause 11.1.4.
40
11.1.1	An employee who is off work on any of the above Holidays shall, subject to the provisions of Clause 11.1.2, be paid an amount equivalent to that which he
would have received for his regular
scheduled shift.
11.1.2	An employee shell not be
entitled to be so paid:
(A)	If he does not work on any nonstatutory holiday when he has been scheduled to do so, unless he has been excused from work in advance or furnishes a subsequent justifiable reason for such failure.
(B)	If he is absent without a justifiable reason on the last scheduled working day preceding the holiday or the next scheduled working day succeeding the holiday.
For the purpose of Holiday Pay entitlement only, overtime shall not be considered as a scheduled shift.
(C)	However, in the case of illness certified by medical Certificate, Leave of Absence or layoff, an employee shall receive his holiday pay only if his absence did not commence more than six (6) calendar days prior to the holiday in question.
41
11.1.3	For scheduled continuous shift employees, holidays covered by Article XI will be observed on the calendar day on which they actually fall.
11.1.4	Birthday Holiday:	In the
event that an employee's "Birthday Holiday'' falls on a recognized holiday or weekend he shall take the scheduled working day immediately preceding or following such recognized holiday or weekend.
Employees shall advise their Supervisor of their intentions prior to the posting of the "Posted Weekly Schedule".
11.2.0	In addition to the holiday pay stipulation in Clause 11.1.1, employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all work performed on the above holidays.
11.2.1	Pan Operators, Shift Engineers and Briners when on Continuous Shift as defined in Clause 8.1.3 and 8.1.4 who work on a Holiday, shall have the option of taking a day off in lieu cf the Holiday worked.
42
All Holidays banked must be used prior to December 31st of the following year. Holidays not used will be cancelled and employee will be paid amount being held in lieu.
For these employees who elect to take a day in lieu of a Holiday worked, the following shall apply:
One week's notice in writing shall be required of the employee's intent to take a day in lieu. Arrangements for the day off in lieu csf the Holiday worked will require the approval of the Dept. Supervisor and will require notice in writing of one (1) week.
Such approval by the Department Supervisor will not be unreasonably withheld.
Payment of the Premium portion will be paid for the Holiday worked. Payment of the regular portion will be paid when the day in lieu is taken.
43
To satisfy the requirement of a "Weeks Notice", such notice must be given prior to the posting of the "Posted Weekly Schedule".
11.3,0	Employees who are ineligible for holiday pay by reason of insufficient service, will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for work performed on any of the above holidays.
11.4.0	Employees without seniority are governed by the Labour Standards Code and Regulations of the Province of Nova Scotia.
44
ARTICLE XII - VACATIONS
12.1.0	Subject to the rules contained below, an employee who has completed the prescribed period of service by March 31st., shall be granted a vacation with pay as follows:
12.1.1	Employees with six (6) months but less than twelve (12) months accumulated service shall be granted a vacation equal to 0.83 of a day per month of service.
Vacation Pay shall be four (4) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the company.
12.1.2	A vacation week for all employees will be seven (7) consecutive days commencing on the first regular scheduled working day following the employee's regular scheduled day or days off.
For continuous shift workers, vacation shall be seven (7) consecutive days commencing on Monday and ending on Sunday.
45
12.1.3	Employees with one (l)year but less than five (5) years accumulated service shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be four (4) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.4	Employees with five (5) years but less than ten (10) years accumulated service shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be six (6) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.5	Employees with ten (10) years but less than twenty (20) years accumulated service shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be eight (8) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.6	Employees with twenty (20) years but less than thirty (30) accumulated service shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be ten (10) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
46
12.1.7	Employees with thirty (30) years or more accumulated service shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be twelve (12) percent of the employee's gross earnings with the Company.
12.1.8	For the purpose of these rules Accumulated Service shall be the total period during which the employee has been an	employee of	the Company
commencing on the employee's most recent hiring date or January 1, 1952, whichever is the most recent.
Any employee whose 5th, 10th, 20th, or 30th year of accumulated service falls within the current vacation year, shall be permitted to take	the	corresponding
vacation entitlement at the applicable rate of pay beginning April 1st of the current vacation year.
If, however, the employee should resign or is otherwise terminated prior to his anniversary date, he will be required io reimburse the Company for the extra week of vacation pay he was granted.
47
12.1.9	Vacations may not be postponed from one year to another, nor may they be waived by an employee and vacation pay be drawn in lieu of the vacation. No part c£ a Leave of Absence shall be considered as the vacation period.
However, an employee returning from lay-off may, upon his return to work waive part or ail (in increments cf (1) one week) of his outstanding vacation entitlement and be paid in lieu thereof.
Ai employee who has a layoff period which equals or exceeds his vacation entitlement may, upon his return to work waive part or all (in increments of one (1) week) of	his outstanding vacation
entitlement and be paid in lieu thereof.
12.1.10	For those entitled to three (3), four (4), five (5), or six (6) weeks vacation, the Company reserves the right to limit their vacation during July and August to two (2) weeks. Such employees may schedule the remainder cf their vacation outside of July or August.
48
12.1.11	Vacations shall be scheduled by the Company to take place mainly during the summer months and shall be arranged to coincide as far as possible with the wishes of the employees, subject in both cases to the efficient operation of the department concerned.
12.1.12	Where a recognized holiday or holidays occur during an employee's vacation, he shall be entitled to take an additional day or days either immediately preceding or following his vacation provided the Company has been advised in writing of his intent at least one (1) week prior to the commencement of his vacation.
12.1.13	Vacation pay shall be paid to the employee on the last day preceding the date the employee is scheduled to go on vacation, providing that the employee shall have confirmed in writing his impending vacation with the Company at least one (1) week in advance.
The employee has the option of taking all or part of his vacation pay entitlement when going on vacation.
49
12.1.14	Upon termination of employment, an employee shall be paid a vacation allowance of four (4) percent, six
(6)	percent, eight (8) percent, ten (10) percent or twelve (12) percent cf his gross wage as determined by preceding Clauses 12.1.1, 12.1.2, 12.1.3, 12.1.4, 12.1.5, 12.1.6, 12.1,7.
12.1.15	In any case where the benefits provided under the Nova Scotia Vacation Pay Act are found to be greater than the above provisions, the benefits provided under the Act shall apply.
12.1.16	Members of the bargaining unit, not exceeding more than one (1) from each Department at any one time, shall be granted, upon request, a Leave of absence without pay not to exceed four (4) weeks per life cf this Agreement.
50
ARTICLE XIII - SENIORITY
13.1.0	An employee shall acquire seniority status after he has be,en in the employ of the Company for an aggregate probationary period of ninety (90) days during any 6 month period.
Seniority shall date three (3) months prior to the date on which seniority was acquired, but not prior to the first day worked.
13.2.0	In all cases of promotion including vacation relief, demotion, transfer, lay-off, and recall, the Company will consider the following:
(A)	Seniority
(B)	Skill and ability to perform the work required.
13.2.1	When, in the judgement of the Company, Factor (B) is equal, as between two (2) or more employees, seniority shall govern.	Cases	of
disagreement shall be dealt	with in
accordance with the provisions of Article VI.
51
13.3.0	It is agreed that there shall be four (4) divisional seniority lists, Mine, Rock Salt Mill and Shipping, Maintenance, and Fine Salt Plant. When an employee transfers from one division to another, his name shall be placed at the bottom of the Divisional Seniority List and he shall retain his seniority in his original division for a period of sixty (60) days.
At the end of sixty (60) days of cumulative seniority in the new division, (sixty (60) working days in the Maintenance Division and sixty (60) calendar days in all other divisions) the transfer shall be considered final and his seniority shall then date from the date of such transfer.
13.3.1	A notice of vacancy will be posted for a period of forty-eight (48) regular working hours in all departments inviting applications from interested candidates. Such postings will be valid for a period of sixty (60) days. The results wall be posted within one (1) week, seven
(7)	consecutive days.
52
13.3.2	Promotions to vacant positions will be filled from within the division in which the vacancy occurs provided suitable applicants are available. Failing success in locating a suitable candidate from within the division in which the vacancy occurs, applications from other divisions will then be considered in order of total plant service.
13.3.3	For the purpose of interdepartment transfer, Temporary Positions of less than sixty (60) days duration need not be posted.
13.3.4	Promotions of a nonpermanent nature (greater than sixty (60) calendar days) will be reversed upon return to work of the permanent incumbent, if in the judgement of the Company, the incumbent is physically and otherwise capable of performing all of the required duties.
13.3.5	Notwithstanding any provisions of Article XIII, students may be hired for periods not to exceed four (4) consecutive months. Such employees shall be considered as probationary and shall not acquire seniority. AH other provisions of this Agreement shall apply to these employees.
53
13.3.6
1)	Employees who are laid-off for a continuous period of sixty (60) calendar days or more will return to work at the lowest classification within their department.
2)	For lay-off periods less than sixty (60) continuous days, employees will return to the classification they held at the time of their lay-off.
3)	The exception will be:
a)	Maintenance Department employees
b)	Boiler Operators
The above exceptions will retain their classifications when returning from periods of lay-off.
13.4.0	Hoistmen shall be included on the Mine Seniority List.
54
13.5.0 An employee will lose all
seniority if he or she:
(A)	Voluntarily quits.
(B)	Is justifiably discharged.
(C)	If in Nova Scotia, fails to return to work within five (5) days after notice to return has been sent by registered mail. If outside Nova Scotia, he must return in a reasonable time. In either case, both Union and Company must be notified immediately of change of address.
(D)	Is laid-off in excess of the greater of twenty-four (24) months or the employees service.
(E)	Is absent Prom work for five (5) consecutive normal working days without notifying the Company giving a satisfactory reason for such absence.
13.6.0	A laid-off employee holding seniority in one (1) division who is accepted for temporary employment in another	division	and who has not
accumulated sixty (60) continuous days in his temporary position will return to his former division as soon as regular work is
available for him in that division.
55
13.6.1	If such temporary employment exceeds sixty (60) continuous days in one (1) division, the employee may elect to apply this period for a permanent transfer to the seniority list of the new division.
The employee shall, in this event, be required to advise the Company in writing, of his decision to transfer his seniority within a period of seven (7) days after he has been notified by the Company, in writing, that he is eligible to transfer his seniority.
Such transfer of seniority will not take place until after the job posting procedure.
13.6.2	The Company agrees that before hiring probationary employees, any member of the bargaining unit on lay-off qualified to do the work available will be given first choice to fill the job opening.
56
13.G.3	Five (5) days	following
receipt of a Lay-off Notice, an employee shall be entitled to exercise accumulated service over a probationary employee in another department who has not attained seniority status in that department.
13.7.0	If an employee is transferred to a supervisory position, he shall be excluded from the coverage of this Agreement.	However, if an employee
returns to the bargaining unit within twelve (12) months, he will retain his accumulated seniority.
57
ARTICLE XIV - SAFETY AND HEALTH
14.1.0	The Company shall continue to make reasonable provision for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment.
Such protective devices as the Company requires to be worn and other equipment which in the opinion of the Company is necessary to protect the employee from injury shall be provided by the Company.
14.1.1	Employees afflicted	with
alcoholism or drug abuse will be covered by the Disability Plan provided they subject themselves to prescribed treatment.
14.1.2	It is agreed that	the
Occupational Health and Safety Committee will include five (5) Union Members:
one ()) from the Mine one (1) from the Fine Salt Plant one (1) from the Rock Salt Mill one (1) from Maintenance (surface) one (1) from Maintenance U/G
58
A list of these committee members including the designated chairman, along with an alternate for each will be presented by the Union to the Company in January of each year.
14.2.0
(A)	CoveraU/overalls will be provided to all employees free of charge.
(B)	(1)	C.S .A. approved non-
prescription safety glasses will be provided free of charge to a maximum of six (6) pair per year/employee.
(2)	The Company will provide a
refund of $155.00 upon receipt of proof of purchase of approved safety frames and safety lenses once every two (2) year period as follows:
Period between Oct. 8/92 - Oct. 7/94 Period between Oct. 8/94 - Oct. 7/96
The Company agrees to replace the lenses only of prescription safety frames and safety lenses when such lenses are damaged as a result of the employees work at the Plant.
59
Such replacement mil be on the following basis:
Maintenance Dept. Employees
Three times per two year period, October 8/92 - October 7/94; and three times per two year period, October 8/94 - October
7/96.
AH Other Employees
Once per two year period, October 8/92 -
October 7/94 for all other employees.
a)	Miners belts will be provided free of charge.
b)	Gloves will be provided for dirty and hazardous jobs as determined by the Company free of charge. Other gloves will be provided at cost.
c)	Dust masks will be provided free of charge.
d)	Hearing protection will be provided free of charge on request and will be required to be worn on designated jobs.
e)	Welding equipment will be provided free of charge.
60
The Company will refund the purchase price of Company approved Safety Footwear up to the maximum shown below:
From	October	8/93	-	October	7/94	$85.00
From	October	8/94	-	October	7/95	90.00
From	October	8/95	-	October	8/96	95.00
14.2.1	Whenever the Company recommends to the employees for their better protection, the use of additional personal safety equipment which it does not supply free of charge, it will make such equipment available to employees at cost.
14.2.2	If a hazardous condition is perceived by an employee, he shall point it out to his Foreman. If a remedy is not agreed to, the situation shall be examined by a committee consisting of the Union President or his deputy, the Department Safety Committeeman, the Company Safety Supervisor, the Department Supervisor and a qualified member
of the Maintenance Department when required.
This committee will recommend a remedy to the Department Superintendent. If this is not accepted, the matter will be referred to the Facility Manager for a decision.
61
In the event of Department of Mines regulations being introduced to cover this
situation, precedence.	such	regulations	will	take
14.3.0	The	Company	shall,	if
possible, provide		an overtime	meal if	the
employee is required to work more than ten (10) continuous hours and if employment continues an overtime lunch if possible at thirteen (13) hours and at intervals of four
(4)	hours thereafter. If it is not possible for the Company to provide the above meal and/or lunches, then the employee will be paid $7.50 per meal and $5.50 per lunch.
14.3.1	Employees on the continuous twelve (12) hour shift shall be paid for or provided with lunches and meals only after fourteen (14); hours and seventeen (17) hours worked at intervals cf four (4) hours thereafter.
14.4.0	When an employee has been authorized to use his vehicle for trips to the Marine Terminal or MacLeod Lake, he shall be reimbursed $4.25 per round trip to the Marine Terminal and $5.50 per round trip to MacLeod Lake.
62
ARTICLE XV - CONTRACTING OUT
15.1.0	Whenever it becomes necessary for the Company to contract out a particular portion of its work load or requirements, the Company agrees to discuss, with the Union, the nature and scope of the work to be done.
15.1.1	It is agreed that members of the bargaining unit shall not be laid off as a result of work which they are qualified to perform being contracted out to other sources.
ARTICLE XVI - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
16.1.0	This Agreement shall become effective as of October 8, 1993 shall remain in full force and effect until October 7, 1996 and shall be automatically renewed for a period of one (1) year unless notice in writing is given by either party to the other for modification or termination during the period of ninety (90) calendar days prior to the expiry date of October 7, 1996.
63
16.2.0	Within three (3) months of the expiry of this Agreement, either party may give notice to the other party, in writing, of its intention to negotiate a renewal of this Agreement.
Within ten (10) working days of receipt of such notice, both parties will meet and exchange proposed modifications or revisions of this Agreement.
Both parties shall thereupon enter into negotiations in good faith and make every reasonable effort to secure such a renewal.
16.3.0	The notices provided for in Article XVI shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by registered mail addressed, if to the Company, to:	The
Canadian Salt Company Limited, Pugwash, Nova Scotia, and if to the Union to:	The
President, Local 823, Chemical, Energy and Paperworkers Union, Pugwash, Nova Scotia.
64
SCHEDULE " A"
CLASSIFICATION AND WAGES RATES
Effect. Effect. Effect. 10/8/93 10/8/94 10/8/95
MINE DEPARTMENT Hoistman Shaftsman Miner
Miners' Dry Attendant
MILL DEPARTMENT Dispatcher D i spatcher/He1per Checker/Loader Mobile Equip. Operator Conveyor Floor Attendant Truck Scale Attendant Marine Terminal operator Warehouse/Bagger
TINE SALT DEPARTMENT Shift Engineer 2nd Class Shift Engineer 3rd Class Pan Operator Briner
Sr.Pkging Machine Op. Dairy Mill Operator Screen/Mixer Attendant Warehouseman/Bagger
MAINTENANCE Journeyman 1st Class 2nd Class 3rd Class
Preventive Maint. I Preventive Maint. I I
16.99	17.34	17.83
15.89	16.24	16.69
15.69	16.04	16.49
15.69	16.04	16.49
15.80	16.15	16.60
15.30	15.65	16.09
15.33	15.68	16.12
15.25	15.60	16.04
15.33	15.68	16.12
15.33	15.68	16.12
15.11	15.46	15.89
14.98	15.33	15.76
17.64	17.99	18.49
16.79	17.14	17.62
16.79	17.14	17.62
15.39	15.74	16.18
15.31	15.66	16.10
15.10	15.45	15.88
15.87	16.22	16.67
14.98	15.33	15.76
17.49	17.84	18.34
16.43	16.78	17.25
15.79	16.14	16.59
15.57	15.92	16.37
16.43	16.78	17.25
15.79	16.14	16.59
65
PREMIUMS
SHIFT
A shift premium will be paid in addition to the applicable wage rate, whenever an employee works the following shifts:
Effective Oct. 8/93
4-3 2 $0.39/hr. 12-8	$0.46/hr
Effective Oct. 8/94
4-12	$0.40/hr.
12-8	$0.47/hr.
Effective Oct. 8/95
4-12	$0.41/hr
12-8	*0.48
PREMIUM "A"
Working underground, on hoist cables, headframe below sheave deck -$0.27/hour.
PREMIUM "B"
Working in the shaft, on sheave deck or above, hanging, lowering and removing material Prom beneath the skip and performing maintenance work on No. 6 conveyor at the Marine Terminal -$0.40/hour.
No pyramiding of Premium "A" and
"B".
66
PREMIUM
Fine Salt Manufacture employees, (excepting shift engineers) with 4th Class Engine Operator's Certificate will be paid $0.10/hour over their regular rate for a twelve (12) month period providing they continue their studies toward obtaining their 3rd Class Certificate.
Employees, excepting Shift Engineers, with 3rd Class Engine Operator's Certificate (full Ticket) will be paid $0.15/hour above their regular rate.
Employees, excepting Shift Engineers, with 2nd Class Engine Operator's Certificate will receive $0.20/hour over and above their regular rate.
PREMIUM "D"
Working inside Fine Salt Plant Boilers, removal or replacement of boiler casing or insulation and removal, repair or replacement of soot blower lances. The economizer is considered part of the Fine Salt Plant Boilers - $0.35/hour.
PREMIUM "E"
Miner handling or firing explosive.
Miner operating Rock Drill.
High Pressure Washer - $0.1 ft/hour.
67
CERTIFIED HKH PRESSURE WELDERS
The existing High Pressure Welder will receive $1.00/hr. when performing work requiring High Pressure Welding Certification.
Employees who, at the request of the Company, hold certification in a second recognized trade, will receive a premium of $0.35/hr. for all hours worked.
WCRKING LEADERS
Working leaders shall be included under the coverage of this Agreement and shall receive $1.00/hour more than the rate of the highest ranking job in the group being led.
RETROACTIVE PAT
All employees on strength as of October 8, 1993, will be paid retroactively where applicable:
All increases except overtime meals and lunches.
68
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS PLAN
It is agreed that the application of the Industrial Relations Plans comprising the Group Life Assurance Plan, the Pension Plan (as amended January 1, 1993, Sunlife Medicare Supplement Insurance (effective January 1, 1994) and the Disability Wage Plan (amended October 8,	1993) shall
continue in respect of the employees of said work.
The Company agrees that the aforementioned coverages will continue without further change during the term of this Agreement unless such changes are agreed to between the Company and the Union.
69
THE CANADIAN SALT COMPANY LIMITED PUGWASH, N. S.
A. W. Davidson.
Facility Manager
L.R.Hartling.. .ft
Personnel/Labour lUdatiowManager
COMMUNICATION, ENERGY, PAPERWORKERS UNION, PUGWASH SALT, LOCAL 823
MEMBERS OF NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
Bryne MacIntyre..	..$-.!?£■
President, Local 823
Robert Carter..& _	.....................
Maintenance	pj
Danny Purdy................................
Rock Salt Mill	/	/
Glen Boyd.................................
Underground	„	,	,((U
Charles VanBuskirkviJ^^..........
Fine Salt /!	,
Paul Murphy jxl6CdL../(>
National Representative C.E.KU/
70
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
- FINE SALT PLANT
Notwithstanding Article VIII (8.1.3) during periods of low production requirements of Evaporated Salt, the Company will have the option of instituting, for Pan Operators only, a Tuesday through Saturday, and/or a Monday through Friday shift schedule comprising twelve (12) hour shifts and averaging forty (40) hours/week over a three (3) week cycle.
71
LETTER CF UNDERSTANDING
- PAN OPERATOR TRAINEES -
It is agreed to establish a rate for Pan Operator Trainees equal to $0.75 Less than the Pari Operator's rate.
Candidates for the position cf Pari Operator Trainee will be selected by the regular Job Posting System.
Future Pan Operator Positions will be filled by employees who have participated in and successfully completed the Pari Operator's Trainee Program or from employees who are considered to be frilly trained Pan Operators
Pan Operator Trainee candidates will return to their regular classification when not required in this position. A Pan Operator Trainee will receive the Pari Operators rate when, in the absence of the Pari Operator, he fills that capacity on a regular shift.
72
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
- SHIFT ENGINEERS
Upon completion of each class of Operator’s Ticket granted by the Department of Labour, Province of Nova Scotia, the Shift Engineer will be eligible for a bonus payment of $200.
This applies only to Shift Engineers who are in the full time employ of the Canadian Salt Company Limited, Pugwash, N. S. at the time the ticket is granted and who have accumulated the hours necessary for such class of ticket at this Plant.
73
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
- EQUALIZATION OF OVERTIME -
It is agreed that the following guidelines will be used to administer the Equalization of Overtime System as set out in Article VIII of the Collective Agreement.
(1)	All employees, except those who have signed out of the System, who are requested io work overtime will be charged with having worked or refused.
(2)	Overtime which is the result of a penalty payment, such as Company initiated change of shift will not be charged.
(3)	A n employee may waive his rights to "Equalization of Overtime" by completing Form No. 5308.
(4)	When an employee elects to sign out of the System, the difference in "total hours worked & refused" between himself and the highest total (in his classification) will be recorded.
When re-entering the system, this differential will be maintained. Should the employee signing out of the system he the highest in total hours worked/refused, then the difference between himself and the next highest total will be maintained.
74
(5)	An employee who is signed out of the System will not be requested to work until all other qualified employees within his classification have been asked.
(G) The total hours worked and refused for all employees will be reduced to 0 on January 1 of each year.
75
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
- MAINTENANCE -
APPRENTICESHIP AND PROMOTIONS
Many of the Trades under the Province of Nova Scotia	"Trades &
Apprenticeship Division of the Department of Labour“ are recognized by the Company as being applicable to the Maintenance Department.
From time to time it may be practical and desireable to fill positions which are vacant or may become vacant with applicants from within the Plant who are interested in entering the Trades Apprenticeship Program.
These applicants who are deemed qualified by The Company will be hired or transferred into the Maintenance Department at the level of 3rd Class and will be entered into the Trades Apprenticeship Program.
Notwithstanding Article XIII (13.3.0), employees who transfer to Maintenance 3rd Class and are entered into the Trades Apprenticeship Program may be returned or elect to be returned to their previous classification if they are not successful in attaining an established standard in liloek I of their particular trade.
76
Employees enrolled in a Trades Apprenticeship Program will be eligible for promotion on the following basis:
-3rd Class to 2nd Class - 12 months of service in the Maintenance Department plus successful completion of 1st year Trade School.
-2nd Class to 1st Class - 24 months of service in the Maintenance Department plus successful completion of 2nd year Trade School.
-1st Class to Journeyman - 48 months of service in the Maintenance Department plus Journeyman eortfieation in one of the above trades.
Applicants who hold certification in a recognized trade or who in the opinion of the Company have equivalent experience, will be hired or transferred into the Maintenance Department at the level of 2nd Class.
77
Promotions of this group holding certification or equivalent experience in a recognized trade will be on the following basis:
-2nd Gass to 1st Class - upon acquiring seniority within the Maintenance Department.
-1st Class to Journeyman - 15 months of satisfactory service within the Maintenance Department.
78
FETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
- VACATION -
When an employee, while on vacation, suffers a major illness, injury or family crisis, the Company agrees to discuss with a view to rescheduling the vacation period.
Each case will be judged on its own merits and in all cases the Company's decision will be final.
79
I,UTTERS OE UNDERSTANDING TOWER OPERATOR
The employee assigned to act as Tower Operator during boat loading operations will be paid a rate equal to the classification of Checker Loader.
BRINERS 12 HOUR SHIFT
Following an agreed schedule, three (3) employees will work 12 hour shifts, 8 a.m. -	8 p.rn. at regular time, for an
average of 40 hours per week, over a three week cycle.
Holidays that occur while employees are working this schedule will be paid at 12 hour each.
This schedule vzlLL remain in effect as long as the Mine Department continues to hoist on a 12 liour/day production cycle and as long as there is a requirement for brine. A change in either of these factors will allow the Company to return the Brine Classification to a regular 8 hour shift schedule without penalty.
80
SUBJECT INDEX
(A)
CLAUSE
Absence Employee	8.7.0
Absence Reprimands	8.7,0
Agreement Duration	J.6»I»0
Agreement Notice to enter into [8,2,0	16.3.0
Alcoholism A Drug Abuse	14.1.1
Arbitration	Article VI1
Arbitration Single Arbitrator	7,5,0
Arbitration Discharge A Suspension	7,5,0
(B)
Bereavement Leave	Article X
Benefit Package
Bulletin Boards	4.2.0
<0
Calendars Days - Working Call Out
Change of Production Schedule Change of Shift
Change of Shift - Company Initiated Change of Shift - Mutual Exchange Check Of f
Classification ■ Loss Committeemen - Payment - Stage 3 Company - Recognition Contracting Out Conveyor Floor Operator Coveralls
13.1.0
8.5.0
8.3.3
8.3.4
8.3.7
8.3.8
8.4.0
3.1.0 13.3.6
6.4.0
2.2.0
15.1.0 9.2.0
14.2.0
81
PACE
33
33
63
64 58 21 22 22
36
69
10
51
31
27
28 29
29
30 9
54
19
7
63
34
59
SUBJECT INDEX
CLAUSE
(D)
Demotion - Elimination of Job	9.3.0
Discrimination, Intimidation, etc.	4.3.0
Disciplinary Action	6.5.0
(E)
Employees not covered by Agreement	2.1.0
Employees on Lay Off -1st Choice to fill job opening	13.6.2
Eaployment-Another
Seniority Division	13.6.0
(E)
Foremen and Supervisors not working		9.4.0
(G)		
Gender Neutral		1.1.3
Grievance Committee Grievance Committeemen		5.2.0
- Payment on Stage 3		0.4.0
Grievance Discharge		0.1.5 7.5.0
Grievance Procedure	Article VI	
82
PAGE
35
11
20
6
50
55
35
5
12
19
18
22
10
SUBJECT INDEX
CLAUSE
(II)
Hazardous Condition Holidays
Holidays - "Banking of"
Holidays - Continuous Shift Workers Holidays - During Vacation Hours of Work Hours of Work
Continuous 12 Hour Shift Hours of Work
Continuous 8 Hour Shift Hours of Work Regular-Monday-Friday
14.2.2 Article XI
11.2.1
11.1.3
12.1.0
2.2.0
8.1.2
8.1.3
8.1.1
8.1.4
8.1.1
(I)
Industrial Relation Plan Investigating A Settlement Grievance -
(1) Time Off	5.4.0
(2) Procedure	5.4.)
PAGE
61
39
43
42
45
7
23
24
23
24
23
69
13
14
(J)
Job-Permanently eliminated	9.3.0	35
Job posting	13.3.1	52
Jury Duty	10.2.0 A 10.2.1	38
83
SUBJECT INDEX
	CLAUSE
(I.)	
Labour Standards Code	1.1.!
Leaves of Absence	
-M'IK Violation	10.3.0
-Union Business	5.5.0
-President A Secretary Meetings	5,4.0
-Personal	12.1.10
-Vacation	12.1.7
Letters of Understanding -Shi ft Schedules-
Fine Salt Plant -Pan Operator Trainees -Shift Engineer Training Bonus -Equalization of Overtime -Maintenance -Vacation -Toner Operator -Rrtner 1.2 Hours Shift
Lock Out	4,4,1
Loss of Regular [lours	8.3.7
Shift Change Lunches - Overtime	14,3.0
(H)	
Management Rights	2.2.0
Meeting's - Notification	5.0.0
Mutual Exchange of Shifts	8.4.0
Mutual Exchange of Shifts - 12 hour Workers	8.4.1
84
PAGE
4
38
14
13
50
47
71
72
73
74 70
79
80
80
11
29
02
7
15
30
30
SUBJECT INDEX
(N)
Negotiating Committee
Negotiating Committee Compensation
Notices - Meetings
Notices - New Employees
Notices - Union
Not ices-Vacancy
No Work Available
No Pyramiding O.T. Payments
CLAUSE
5.1.0
5.1.1 5.C.0
3.2.0
4.2.0 13.3.1
8.5.1
8.5.2
(0)
0. II. A S. Act
0. H. A S. Committee
Overtime - Change in Posted Schedule
Overtime - Days Off	8.3.1
Overtime - Distribution
Overtime - Distrib. 12 Hour Workers
Overtime Holidays
Overtime-In Excess of Overtime Lunches
Hours
Overtime - Notice of Availability Overtime - Sat A Sun Overtime Work
PAGE
12
12
15
9
LO
52
31
32
5
55
29
27
25
27 42 44
28 62 62
26 27 24
85
SUBJECT INDEX
(P)	CLAUSE	PAGE
Pan Operators Shift Schedule	8.1.3	24
Payroll Deductions	3.1.0	9
Posting Vacancy Promotions - Maintenance Dept.	13.3.1	52
(Letter of Understanding)		76
Promotion, Relief, Defflotion	13.2.0	51
Protective Clothing	14.2.0	60
Premiums
66
(R)
Rules and Regulations	2.3.0
(S)
Safety
Safety Commi ttee - General
Safety Equipment
Safety Hazardous Conditions
Safety and Health
Safety Shoes, Glasses etc.
Seniority
Seniority - Divisional Lists Seniority - llolstaen Seniority - Loss of Seniority - Promotion/Demotion Seniority - Status Service - Re: Vacations
Article XIV
14.1.1
14.1.0
14.2.2
1.1.0
14.2.0 Article XL 1L
13.3.0
13.4.0
13.5.0
13.2.0
13.1.0
12.1.6
7
58
58
58 61
4
59
51
52
54
55 51 51 46
86
SUBJECT INDEX
Shift Engineers - Bonus (Letter of Of Understanding) Shift Schedule - Pan Operators Slow Downs, etc.
Strikes
Students
Supervisory - Transferring to
CLAUSE	PAGE
72
8.1.3	24
4.4.0	It
4.4.0	11
13.3.5	53
13.7.0	57
(T)
Technical 4 Process [aproveoenl	2.4.0	8
Temp. Classification - Working in	9.2.0	34
Transfers, Lay-off, etc.	13.2.1	51
Travel - MacLeod Lake, Marino Terminal 14.4.0	62
Truck Scale Attendant	9.2.0	34
(0)
Union Business	5.4.0	13
	6.4.0	19
Union Executive and Officers	5.3.0	13
Union Membership and Dues	4.1.0	10
Union President - Day Shift	5.4.0	13
Union Recognition	2.1.1	6
(V)		
Vacations	Article Xll	45
Vacat ions - Service to and Entitlement	12.1.3	46
	12.1.7	47
87