1992 — 1994 AGREEMENT
DISTRICT 3
LOCAL 7689
00231(04)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
PAGE NO,
I
ii
ill
IV
V
vi
VII
VIII
IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
XVI
XVII
XVIII
XIX
XX
XXI
XXII
XXIII
XXIV
XXV
Recognition..........................................3
Discrimination...................................... 5
No Union Activity on Company Time................... 5
Grievance Procedure................................. 6
Discharge or Suspension.............................12
Arbitration.........................................14
Union Negotiating Committee.........................17
Seniority and Job Posting...........................17
Probationary Employees............................. 33
Temporary Employees.................................34
Leave of Absence....................................35
Vacations With Pay..................................42
Public Holidays.....................................46
HoursofWork and Overtime ...........................48
Salety and Occupational Health......................53
Union Security..................................... 55
Handicapped Employees...............................56
Bulletin Boards.....................................57
Cooperative Wage Study..............................57
Supervisors Working.................................61
Tools ............................................  62
Wage Differentials................................. 63
Notice .............................................64
Copies of Agreement.................................65
Terms of the Agreement .............................65
Appendix "A"-Standard Hourly Wage Scale.............67
Exhibit "A"-Lines of Progression-Mine Operating .. 68 - 69 Exhibit “B”-Lines of Progression-Mine Maintenance ... 70
Exhibit "6"-Lines of Progression-Plant Operating....71
Exhibit “D”-Lines of Progression-Plant Maintenance . . 72
Exhibit "E"-Lines of Progression-Plant Loadout......73
Exhibit “F"-Lines of Progression-Warehouse Dept.....74
Exhibit “G"-Lines of Progression-Safety Dept ...... 75
Appendix “B" • Apprenticeship Program............76-79
Appendix “C” -Schedule of Apprenticeship Training . . 80 Appendix “D” - Non Trade Training Requirements .81-83
Appendix "E.1 .Compressed WorkWeek..................84
Benefit Summary.....................................89
Subject Index.......................................95
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into the 7th day of April, 1992 by and between:
POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC., Allan Division, operators PCS Inc. Allan Division, hereinafter called the “Company”
Party of the first part,
and,
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, CLC, for itself and on behalf of its Local 7689, hereinafter called the “Union”
Party of the second part,
In the spirit of cooperation and to provide for an efficient operation the parties hereby mutually agree as follows:
NOTE:	For purposes of this Agreement, any
reference to employees as “he” or “his”, etc. shall mean all employees, male and female, in the Bargaining Unit.
2
ARTICLE I - RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative for the purpose of bargaining collectively with regard to rates of pay, hours of work, working conditions and other conditions of employment, for all employees employed by PCS Inc.. Allan Division near Allan, Saskatchewan, except supervisors; foremen; superintendents; managers; office and clerical staff; the mine, process, laboratory and instrumentation technician; nurse; first aid attendant; plant security; and a person having and regularly acting on behalf of management in a confidential capacity with the intent that this Agreement will promote an efficient and effective operation and a procedure for the prompt settlement of grievances.
1.02	The Company reserves all rights and perogatives unless clearly and explicity granted to the Union by this Agreement. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Union understands and agrees that the Company has the exclusive and undisputed right and power to operate and manage the business in all respects, including, but not limited to, the right
a)	to maintain order, discipline and efficiency, to determine job content and the assignment of work, to make, alter and amend rules of conduct and procedures for employees;
3
b)	to hire, discharge, classify, transfer, promote, demote, lay-off, recall, suspend or discipline employees, provided, however, that if the employee believes that he has been discharged or disciplined without just cause or that any other exercise of the foregoing rights is in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement, he may have the matter dealt with under the Grievance Procedure; and,
c)	generally to manage the business, locate, extend, curtail, cease operations and to determine the numbers and classifications of employees required for any or all operations, the kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used and the schedule of production.
d)	The Company shall not contract out work normally performed by employees in its workforce, if, as a direct result of such contracting out, employees currently in the workforce are laid off or demoted.
Except in the case of an emergency, the Company will notify the Union of the nature of work to be done on site by contractors, the number of people to be employed and the anticipated duration of the job.
e)	The Company agrees that this clause will not be used in an unfair, inequitable or unjust manner against any employee.
4
ARTICLE II - DISCRIMINATION
2.01	No employee of the Company shall be intimidated or discriminated against by either party because of membership or nonmembership in any union, or because of their race, religion, religious creed, colour, sex, political belief, nationality, ancestry, place of origin, or age (with the exception of an employee's normal retirement date).
2.02	Affirmative Action
The parties of this Agreement, The Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc., Allan Division and the United Steelworkers of America, C.L.C., Local 7689, agree there is a need to redress the under representation in the work force of persons of native ancestry, women and the disabled.
To this end, the parties agree to develop and implement measures to redress such imbalances, such measures to be worked out within the overall corporate policy.
ARTICLE III - NO UNION ACTIVITY ON COMPANY TIME
3.01	Except as provided in this Agreement, there shall be no Union activity on the Company's time or property.
3.02	The Union President or his representative may spend one-half hour with new Bargaining Unit employees for the purpose of orien-
5
tation, at a time scheduled by the Company.
3.03	The President of the local, or his designate, will be granted up to eight hours leave of absence with pay in each week at his regular straight time hourly rate, to administer local union business on site, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. weekdays. Such activity will not interfere with employees on duty in the performance of their work, and if the union representative desires to talk with an employee while on duty, he must receive permission from the employee's supervisor. Such time will not be accumulative.
The Union President may use this leave for off-site local union business, if prior permission is obtained from the General Manager or his designate.
ARTICLE IV - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
4.01	"Grievance" means any difference between the Company and any employee or employees bound by this Agreement, or between the Company and the Union, concerning an alleged violation of the interpretation, application or operation of the terms of this Agreement. All grievances shall be finally and conclusively settled in the manner set out in this Article.
4.02	In all cases while grievances are being investigated the employee(s) and all other
6
scheduled employees, except an employee serving a disciplinary suspension or on layoff, must continue to work. Where an employee(s) has or have been discharged by the Company, he or they shall not remain in the employ of the Company while his or their case is being investigated and settled.
4.03	“Shop Stewards” means employees of the Company who have been authorized by the Union to deal with grievances. A Shop Steward shall not leave his duties until proper relief has been provided by his supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. Under no circumstances shall a Shop Steward take any action, (except individual rights as provided for by Provincial legislation), or issue any instructions which will interfere with the production or with the management, operation or direction of the Company's plants, operations, or working force. The jurisdiction of a Shop Steward to act as such shall normally be confined to the particular section or area of the operation in which he is employed during his regularly scheduled working hours.
The number of Shop Stewards shall not exceed thirty (30) employees. If it is necessary for any Steward to take time off during working hours to investigate or attempt to settle a grievance, he shall not suffer loss of pay for time spent in the performance of these duties during his regularly scheduled working hours.
7
4.04	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of Stewards, Grievance Committee members and Executive Officers and the Company shall not be required to recognize any Steward, Grievance Committee member, or Executive Officer until such notice is received. A Shop Steward will not be recognized until the day after the Company has received official notice from the Union that he is a Shop Steward.
4.05	Because of the desirability of a continuity of activities, the parties agree that when possible the negotiation of grievances shall be conducted immediately after the start, or concurrent with the end of the shift.
Should a grievance arise, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the grievance in the following manner:
a)	Stage 1 — The Employee(s) concerned, with or without their Shop Steward in attendance may, provided it is done within fifteen (15) days after the occurrence of the grievance, present his alleged grievance, in writing, to his immediate supervisor.
For matters relating to an employee's payroll cheque, the occurrence of a grievance shall be the day the employee receives his payroll cheque.
The immediate supervisor shall advise the employee of his decision on the
8
grievance within three (3) days.
b)	Stage 2 — Failing a satisfactory settlement of the grievance at Stage 1, the empioyee(s) in person, with their Shop Steward in attendance, may, within three (3) days after the decision of the immediate supervisor at Stage 1 has been or should have been given, submit the grievance in writing to the department superintendent, or his delegate. The grievance shall state the exact nature of the grievance, the act or acts complained of, and when they occurred, the identity of the employee or employees who claim to be aggrieved, the section or sections of the agreement that the employee or employees claim the Company has violated, and the remedy he or they seek. The Department Superintendent or his delegate shall advise the employee of his decision in writing within three (3) days from the time the grievance was submitted to him.
c)	Stage 3 — Failing satisfactory settlement of the grievance at Stage 2, the Grievance Committee may submit the grievance, which shall be stated in writing to the General Manager or his delegate within five (5) days after the decision of the department superintendent has been or should have been given.
The General Manager, or his delegate,
9
shall hold a hearing within ten (10) days from the date upon which he received written notice of the grievance.
The grievance shall be presented at Stage 3 by not more than three (3) members of the grievance committee, the International Staff Representative and a Shop Steward. The General Manager may, if he so desires, be accompanied by other officials of the Company. The employee(s) alleging the grievance shall be present at the hearing if the Company or Union so request.
The General Manager shall give his decision in writing within ten (10) days from the date of such hearing.
d)	Stage 4 — Failing satisfactory settlement at Stage 3, the Union may submit the grievance to arbitration within ten (IO) days from the date of the decision of the General Manager or his delegate, was given or should have been given.
The Union shall give its decision in writing within ten (10) days to the General Manager or his delegate.
4.06	If the grievance is not submitted within the time limits provided in this Article, then the grievance is deemed to be abandoned and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end.
4.07	A grieving employee's scheduled days off 10
and Public Holidays as designated in Article XIII, shall not be counted in determining the time limits within which any action is to be taken in each of the first three stages of the Grievance Procedure.
4.08	The time limits in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties in writing.
4.09	The procedure for settling of disputes set out in this Article shall be strictly adhered to, except where the Company and the Union agree to by-pass Stages 1 and 2.
4.10	In the event that two (2) or more employees have a grievance which are sufficiently common in nature that they may be conveniently dealt with together, it may be submitted at Stage 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
A grievance involving two (2) or more employees shall be presented by not more than two (2) employees of those in the group directly concerned.
In the event that two (2) or more grievances which are sufficiently common in nature are processed to third (3rd) stage, the Company may hear them together. The grievances shall be represented by not more than two (2) employees.
4.11	The Company shall have the right to submit any grievance in writing to the Union
11
Grievance Committee at Stage 3. I he Union Grievance Committee shall give the decision to the Company in writing, within ten (10) days from the date of such hearing. Failing a satisfactory settlement, the company may submit the grievance to arbitration within ten (10) days from the decision cf the Union Grievance Committee was given or should have been given at Stage 3.
4.12	Any grievance arising directly between the Union and the Company shall be submitted in writing at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
4.13	The service record of an employee shall be available for inspection in the Industrial Relations Department, by appointment during office hours, by the employee or his delegate, provided the employee has given written permission for his delegate's inspection and they have obtained permission from their immediate supervisors to leave the job.
ARTICLE V - DISCHARGE OR SUSPENSION
5.01	a) When an employee is discharged or suspended for just cause, the employee and the union shall be notified in writing of the discharge or suspension. A copy of any written warning which is to he placed in an employee's personnel file, shall be given to the employee.
b) If a permanent employee is demoted,
12
suspended without pay, or discharged, for disciplinary reasons, he will be entitled to a hearing with Management and two Union representatives, i.e., the employee's shop steward and the grievance committee chairman or his delegate.
As much as is practical, such hearing will be held prior to the disciplinary action being taken except in the case of gross misconduct and/or a case requiring immediate action. Such hearing will be without prejudice to any subsequent grievance or arbitration procedures.
5.02	If an employee claims that his discharge or suspension is without just cause, then he may submit a grievance within five (5) days after the notice of discharge or suspension has been given. The grievance shall be presented at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure. The five (5) days exclude the grievor’s scheduled days off that would have occurred if he had not been discharged or suspended.
5.03	The General Manager, or his delegate, shall give his decision to the Union and to the employee within five (5) calendar days from the date of the hearing. The General Manager's or his delegate's decision may confirm the discharge, or suspend the employee with or without pay for a specified period, or reinstate the employee without loss of basic regular earnings.
13
5.04	If no grievance with respect to the discharge is initiated by the employee involved within five (5) days of the date the employee is notified of his discharge, the matter shall be considered closed and not subject to further review. Days are as defined in 5.02.
ARTICLE VI — ARBITRATION
6.01	If a grievance is submitted to arbitration in accordance with Article IV, Grievance Procedure, within ten (10) days of receipt of such written notice, the Company and the Union shall select an Arbitrator as outlined below and notify him of his selection.
6.02	Each grievance submitted to arbitration shall be heard separately. A grievance dealing with the suspension or discharge of the Chairman of the Grievance Committee, the OHC Co-chairman or the President of the Local may, at the Union's request, be brought forward, ahead of others, to arbitration on a priority basis.
6.03	The Arbitrator to hear and decide each grievance requiring arbitration shall be selected from the following panel:
1)	D. Ish
2)	R. Laing
3)	K. Norman
6.04	The Arbitrator to hear each case shall be
14
selected by rotation in the order listed in
6.03	above. If the Arbitrator so selected is unable to serve, the Arbitrator next on the list of names shall be selected.
6.05	No member of the panel of arbitrators can be removed except by mutual consent of the Company and the Union in writing.
6.06	If a member of the panel of arbitrators is permanently unable to serve for any reason, the Company and the Union may mutually agree upon a replacement.
6.07	The Arbitrator shall be presented with the written grievances submitted and the Company's replies. The Arbitrator's award shall be confined to such issue(s).
6.08	The expenses of the Arbitrator and a mutually agreed to place of hearing shall be borne in equal shares by the Union and the Company.
6.09	Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling such witnesses.
6.10	The award of the Arbitrator, in respect of an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, shall be final and binding on all parties concerned, but in no event shall the Arbitrator have the power to alter, modify or amend this Agreement in any respect. However, the Arbitrator may, before the close of the hearing of a discharge grievance, request that the Company and
15
the Union make a further attempt to settle such grievance.
6.1	l The Arbitrator shall be requested to give tiis award in writing to each of the parties within thirty (30) days after the close of the hearing and the presentation ol all materials to the Arbitrator.
6.12	The Company arid the Union shall each select a person to sit with the Arbitrator during the hearing. Such persons shall be available, jointly but not individually, to the Arbitrator during and after the hearing to advise him on points arising out of the evidence but shall take no part in making or publishing of the award of the Arbitrator. The Arbitrator shall be entitled to accept or reject any advice he may have received from such persons, but he shall not in his award make reference to such persons or to any advice he may have received, or io his ac ceptance or rejection thereof.
6.13	The Arbitrator shall be confined to hearing only that evidence which was presented at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure. This does riot limit the right of the Arbitrator to give consideration to evidence which may come to light after the third stage hearing.
6.14	If an Arbitrator decides that an employee has been discharged or suspended without just cause, the Company will reinstate the employee without loss of seniority and basic regular earnings less any amounts
16
earned, or will put into effect any lesser settlement determined by the Arbitrator.
ARTICLE VII - UNION NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
7.01	The Company will pay a member of the Union Negotiating Committee (maximum five (5) members) at his base rate for eight (8) hours per day for each day the Committee member meets with the Company to negotiate the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Such employee(s) will be placed on day shift for the duration of negotiations. If a work stoppage or restriction is in effect, payment will not apply. Such hours will not be considered as time worked for the calculation of overtime payment.
ARTICLE VIII - SENIORITY AND JOB POSTING
8.01	a) The Company and the Union recognize that job opportunity and job security should increase with an employee's length of service with the Company. In all cases of promotion, training, layoff or recall, the senior qualified employee shall be entitled to preference except where otherwise provided herein.
b)	The Company shall determine the number of employees in each job classification and if a vacancy in a job classification is to be filled or to be left vacant.
17
c)	When the services of individuals with special abilities or training are required arid are not available within the Bargaining Unit, the Company may employ such individuals from outside ttie Bargaining Unit.
d)	"Qualified" shall moan the physical arid mental fitness and the ability to meet the regulai requirements of the job after a reasonable trial or training period. In maintenance job classifications qualified also means the ability to satisfactorily perform at the classification level.
e)	In the event of a demotion caused by layoff, an employee witli more lhan throe years service in the job ho was demoted from will retain his rate of pay on a “red circled” basis for a period of one year. No wage increases shall apply to the “red circled” rate.
If a demoted employee does not qualify for maintenance of rate because of his service, as above, lie will qualify for the rate of any lower job lie spout tile most time at during the previous three (3) years.
Apprentices who are demoted will qualify for the rate for the job they held for three (3) years piior to entering die apprenticeship program. The maintenance of rate, as per this paragraph, will be for one your on a “red circled" basis as above.
An employee who is laid off on a workforce
reduction who meets the above qualifying criteria and is recalled will also be paid on a "red circled" basis from the time of recall to a maximum of one year from the original date of lay-off.
8.02	a)“Seniority” as used in this Agreement shall be defined as:
General (or Company) — the length of continuous service with the Company since the employee's date of hiring, except as expressly provided herein.
Departmental — the total length of time an employee with continuous service has spent in a department.
b)	If two or more employees begin work for the Company on the same date, they shall be rated on the General Seniority list in alphabetical order based on their surname as of the date of hire.
8.03	An employee's seniority will be lost when:
a)	he voluntarily quits, or
b)	he is discharged, or
c)	he is laid off for a period equal to his seniority or twenty-four (24) months whichever is lesser, (minimum of twelve (12) months), or
d)	he fails to return to work within the re-
19
quirod time aftei lay-oft, unleer, tic gives a reason satisfactory to tho Company foi such failure to return to work, or
e)	tie fails to return to work immediately upon completion of an approved leave of absence, unless he gives a reason satisfactory lo the Company for such failure to return to work, or
f)	tie is absent without leave for three (3) consecutive working days. His absence will be considered as a voluntary separation or “quit without notice".
8.04	In any reduction of work force or recalling after lay-off (except lay-offs of six (6) days or less) the Company shall consider the following two (2) factors in determining which employee or employees shall be laid off or recalled:
a)	The Company Seniority of each employee concerned;
b)	1 he qualifications of each employee concerned to meet the normal requirements of the job.
8.05	a) In any reduction of the workforce, for more than six days, employees with the least Company seniority will be laid off, except that the Company will not bo required to retain an employee because of his Company seniority unless such employee possesses the necessary qualifications lo
20
perform, and is willing to perform the work of the employee who would otherwise be laid off in accordance with this provision.
An employee who was assigned to hisj ob in accordance with the provisions of Article 17.01 shall riot be subject to the bumping provisions in this Article except where the employee does not have enough Company Seniority to remain on site. This protection only applies if the employee's job still remains following the reduction.
b)	Within each Department affected by the reduction, the Company will determine the specific positions required, and employees will be reclassified to available positions within their Department on the basis of qualifications and Company seniority.
c)	If there are vacancies available in departments due to the reduction of employees by Company seniority, employees who have been unable to remain in their respective Departments will be assigned to fill such other vacancies on the basis of qualifications and Company seniority, except that a journeyman may displace junior employees in the same trade in another department providing they are qualified and meet the full requirements of the position.
d)	The reasonable trial or training period as referred to in Article 8.01 (d), does not apply in the case of layoff or recall. However, a senior employee will be entitled to a 3-day
21
familiarization period in one of the existing vacancies. It is understood the Company may refuse to grant the 3-day familiarization period in ono of the existing vacancies. It is understood the Company may refuse to grant the 3-day familiarization period if it can demonstrate that the employee could not meet the requirements of tho job oven if a 3-day familiarization period were granted. An employee who fails to meet the requirements of the job during the 3-day familiarization period in a job above Job Class 8 will be eligible to displace a junior employee in a position at or below Job Class 8 (excluding Apprenticeship jobs) or Wagonmaster, Dispatch and Chute Operators, on the basis of Company seniority.
e)	Subject to Article 17.01, when it is determined that a subsequent permanent vacancy is to be filled, qualified employees who have been displaced from the job in question, as a result of a workforce reduction, within the twenty-four (24) months prior to the date the vacancy is being filled and who are working on site on a permanent basis, will be offered the vacancy on the basis of Company Seniority.
If the employee declines the vacancy, he will lose any options provided by this clause and the Company will not be required to offer him any future vacancies in that job classification. If the employee was being paid at a "red-circled" rate, that will cease
22
at the time of refusal.
If the vacancy cannot be filled as above, the provisions of Articles 8.13 and 8.18 will be followed and, where applicable, Article 8.05
(f)-
f)	employees will be recalled from layoff on the basis of their Company seniority and ability to meet the qualifications of the job for which they are being recalled.
g)	Except for jobs of a temporary or emergency nature, an employee being recalled will be sent notice by registered mail to the employee's last known address. It is the responsibility of any employee to notify the Company of any change in postal address. The employee shall notify the Company of his intention to return to work within five (5) days and shall return to work within ten (10) days from the mailing of such notice. The employee shall lose the right of such recall on the failure to comply with these conditions.
h)	An employee may be granted an additional ten (10) days to return to work for reasons satisfactory to the Company. If he fails to return at the end of the ten (10) day extension, the employee shall lose the right of recall. This period will be extended if disability prevents immediate return if the employee notifies the Company of the disability within the ten (10) day period.
23
i)	However, an employee recalled to a temporary assignment may refuse recall with loss of subsequent recall l ights.
j)	An employee who returns to work following recall and is subsequently laid off will again qualify under the provisions ol Article
8.03	(c).
k)	If at the time of a layoff the Company gives an employee a definite date in writing upon which tie is to return to work, further notice of recall will not be required and the employee shall lose the light of such recall, subject to Article 8.05 (g), if tie fails to return on the date specified.
l)	An employee may elect layoff in lieu of a demotion to a lower job classification without loss of subsequent recall rights.
m)	An employee with five 01 more years of Company Seniority who is laid off as a result of technological change, as defined by the Trade Union Act, 1972, shall receive a severance payment of one week's pay at the employee’s base wage at the time of lay off, for each complete year of accumulated service prior to this lay-off, up to a maximum of thirteen (13) week's pay. In the event an employee who received a severance payment as provided above, is recalled within the period covered by the payment (maximum of thirteen (13) week:;), tie shall repay a prorata amount of the severance payment based upon the date of recall.
24
8.06	Employees who have been laid off for more than fourteen days will be entitled to subsequent layoff notice or pay in lieu of notice which shall not be less than:
—	one week's notice if the employee's period of employment is less than three years;
—	three week's notice if the employee's period of employment is three years or more but less than five years;
—	five week's notice if the employee's period of employment is five or more years.
The above provisions do not apply if the period of layoff is for six days or less, or if an employee is recalled for a specified, limited period of work.
The Company may elect to pay base rate for that portion of the notice period in respect of which notice was not given.
8.07	TRANSFERS: If the transfer of an employee from one department to another is required by the Company for the efficient conduct of operations, the employee, upori completion of three (3) months from the date of his transfer, shall elect:
a)	to remain in the department to which he was transferred and his departmental seniority shall be from the date of his transfer, or
25
b)	to return to the department from which ho was transferred, and his departmental seniority shall include the departmental seniority acquired in the department to which tie was transferred.
The Company will place such employee in a job classification equal to, or higher than, the job from which he was originally transferred.
8.08	If the transfer of an employee from one department to another is required by tho Company because of considerations of health, his departmental seniority in such other department shall be deemed to be equal to his departmental seniority in tho department from which he was transferred.
8.09	(EMPORARY VACANCIES:	A temporary
vacancy is one which last:; forty-eight (48) days or less. This can be extended by intifual agreement.
a)	A temporary vacancy occurs when an employee is absent from work in the case of sickness, vacation, leave of absence, or a vacancy caused by a successful bid of an incumbent prior to the vacancy being filled permanently.
b)	When a temporary employee is hired to till a temporary vacancy, q defined in 8.09 (a), the Union will bo advised of:
i.	the Classification being filled
26
2.	The expected date of hire
3.	The date of termination cf the temporary employee
8.10	TRAINING: To the extent consistent with efficient operations, a senior lower bracket employee will be given the opportunity to train for the higher bracket job next available to him in his Line of Progression, provided however that in determining the qualifications of successful bidders, as provided in this Article, such training will not be given preference in determining qualifications.
8.11	Ifthe senior employee in a job classification or assignment refuses to avail himself of training opportunities or refuses a promotion, the Company may assign a less senior employee in that job classification or assignment to another shift or assignment consistent with his departmental seniority and qualifications if required to allow for promotional opportunities for other employees. “Promotion opportunities” as used above also refers to the additional skill assignments in the Plant Department.
8.12	FILLING A TEMPORARY VACANCY: A temporary vacancy may be filled by an employee who is regularly classified in the job classification in which the vacancy exists or by the temporary advancement of an employee on the same shift based on departmental seniority and qualifications. It is understood that temporary vacancies which occur during the course of a shift
27
may not always be filled by the senior qualified employee.
When filling temporary vacancies, the Company will determine in a fair and equitable manner the qualifications of an employee to fill the particular vacancy which exists.
8.13	FILLING A PERMANENT VACANCY — a permanent vacancy shall be filled in accordance with the following sequence:
a)	firstly in accordance with the Lines of Progression as contained in the Exhibits (a) to (g) of this Agreement.
b)	secondly, departmental seniority,
c)	thirdly, general seniority subject to the job bidding in provisions of the Agreement.
If qualified employees are not available within the Bargaining Unit the permanent vacancy may be filled from outside the Bargaining Unit.
An employee awarded a permanent vacancy shall be entitled to a reasonable training period as designated in notes to Appendix C and D and lines cf progression.
8.14	QUALIFYING ON THE JOB: If within thirty (30) working days an employee working in a new job classification or assignment voluntarily disqualifies himself he shall return to his last classification and assignment if the job assignment still exists.
After thirty (30) days worked, if an employee
28
fails to satisfactorily perform the duties in a job classification or assignment, he shall be returned to his last classification and assignment if the job assignment still exists, arid he will not be considered for the job he was disqualified from for a period of up to six months.
8.15	TRANSFER OUT OF THE BARGAINING UNIT:
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent the transfer of an employee who is a member of the bargaining unit to a position not included in the bargaining unit, or vice versa. In the case where such a transfer is temporary in nature (not exceeding six (6) months in duration), the employee shall continue to accumulate both company and departmental seniority. In the event the transfer is for more than six (6) months, the employee shall lose all retained seniority.
8.16	DEPARTMENTS AND SENIORITY LISTS:
For tile purpose of applying the provisions of this Agreement, the departments shall be as follows:
a)	Mine Operating Department
b)	Mine Maintenance Department
c)	Plant Operating Department
d)	Plant Maintenance Department
e)	Plant Loadout Department
f)	Warehouse Department
g)	Safety Department
29
8.17	The Company will prepare lists of the employees showing the respective dates of their last entry into the Company's service and into their present department. Such lists shall be posted and remain for a period of three (3) weeks for the express purpose that any employee may make a complaint as to the correctness of the date of his last entry into the Company's service or into his present department. At the end of this three (3) week period, the lists, including any corrections that have been made, shall become final. Seniority lists shall be revised and posted quarterly. A copy of the corrected list will be supplied to the Union.
8.18	JOB POSTING: All permanent job vacancies in sub-section (a), (b), (c), (d) and (f) will be posted for Company wide bidding, subject to Article 8.13. Sub-section (e),Appren-ticeship job vacancies will be posted for Company wide bidding.
a)	New job assignments not specified in the Agreement.
b)	Job assignments above bid level jobs which the Company has been unable to fill in a line of progression.
c)	Bid level job assignments as designated in Exhibits "A" to “G” of the Agreement.
d)	Permanent day shift maintenance job assignments.
30
e)	An apprenticeship job vacancy.
f)	All permanent day shift vacancies that cannot be filled from the Line of Progression, including those below bid level, will be posted.
Notice of the vacancies as defined above shall be posted for six (6) days and shall show job classification, job assignment, rate of pay, department, shift work or day work, and the crew where the initial vacancy exists.
An employee who desires to be considered for the posted vacancy shall submit a written bid on a bid form supplied by the Company, within the posting period which closes at the end of the day shift on the sixth (6th) day of posting. A Shop Steward may file a bid on behalf of an absent employee.
Job bids submitted within the six (6) day posting period shall be considered in filling the vacancy. The vacancy shall be awarded to the senior qualified applicant. The name of the successful bidder will be posted within five (5) days following the end of the bidding period.
The Company will transfer the successful bidder within thirty (30) days following the posting of the successful bidder's name if a qualified employee is available to fill the vacancy of the successful bidder. In the
31
event two or more successful bidders to the same job posting cannot be transferred simultaneously, the employee with the most General Seniority will begin accumulating Department Seniority in the new department when any successful bidder on that job is transferred. If the Company is unable to make such transfer within thirty (30) calendar days after posting the name of the successful bidder, then such bidder will receive the rate for the new job starting at the thirty-first (31st) day, provided the new rate of pay is higher than the bidder's present rate and the bidder will begin accumulating the new Departmental Seniority on the thirty-first (31st) day.
An employee who bid and was awarded the job may not bid on another vacancy within six (6) months of posting of his name as a successful bidder unless the new vacancy posted is for an apprenticehsip or maintenance progression vacancy and his prior successful bid was on a nonapprenticeship or non-maintenance progression vacancy.
The permanent vacancy notices as provided for above will be posted on a bulletin board provided for that purpose in the Dry area. Bids on these permanent vacancies shall be deposited in the Bid Box located in the Dry area.
Vacancies in job classifications that require job posting, will be posted prior to the hir-
32
ing of personnel from outside the Bargaining Unit.
Any vacancies in job classifications that require job posting, that are posted, but not filled by bids or outside hiring within three (3) months, will be reposted if the Company still wishes to fill the vacancy.
8.19	If any employee who has been selected to fill a vacancy posted in accordance with the provisions of this Article applies for and is selected to fill another vacancy before he takes up the first position then the first vacancy need not be posted again but may be filled in accordance with this Article from among the original applicants.
ARTICLE IX - PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
9.01	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, an employee, including a temporary employee shall be considered to be a probationary employee and he shall not have seniority until he has actually worked four hundred and eighty (480) hours, within a period of twelve (12) consecutive months, at which time he shall become entitled to company and departmental seniority dating from his last hiring with the Company.
9.02
A probationary employee may take advantage of the Grievance Procedure except in the case where his employment has been terminated by way of discharge or otherwise.
33
ARTICLE X - TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
10.01	A temporary employee is one who has been hired for work of a temporary nature, or because of a temporary increase in production schedules. It shall be specifically stated and acknowledged at the time of hiring that the individual is a temporary employee.
10.02	A temporary employee will become entitled to seniority on completion of his probationary period but he may not use his seniority to displace another employee so long as he is classified as a temporary employee. A temporary employee will be given full consideration for regular employment should a vacancy occur. Temporary employees shall be enrolled in the Company's benefit plans when eligible.
10.03	If and when a temporary employee becomes a regular employee he shall, if he has completed his probationary period, become entitled to company seniority dating from his last hiring by the Company and to departmental seniority dating from his last entry into the service in his department.
10.04	A temporary employee may take advantage of the Grievance Procedure except in the case where his employment has been terminated by way of discharge, lay-off or otherwise.
34
ARTICLE XI - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
11.01	An employee will be granted a leave of absence without pay for personal reasons for up to fourteen (14) days, if
a)	The employee requests in writing from the Company one (1) week in advance of the absence.
b)	The leave is for good reason and does not interfere with the company's operations.
(An extension shall be granted for good and sufficient reason.)
In an emergency situation, such leave may be granted upon a verbal request and such leave shall be confirmed by the employee in writing at a later date.
11.02	If an employee on leave of absence accepts employment, except as provided in this Article, it shall be deemed that he has voluntarily quit without notice his employment with the Company.
11.03	The company will grant an employee a leave of absence without pay up to one (1) year without loss of seniority to work in an official capacity for the Local or International Union. The employee and the Union must request the leave in writing. The leave may be extended for an additional one (1) year period upon written request of the Union. Only one (1) employee may be absent on such leave at any one time.
35
11.04	a) An employee who has been elected or appointed by the Union to attend a Union Convention or Conference shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for this purpose. The Union will request the leave of absence for the delegate or delegates in writing at least one (1)week in advance. Only five (5) employees (maximum two (2) employees from any one (1) department) at any one time will be granted such leave of absence.
b) The Union President, Vice-President, Recording Secretary, Treasurer, Pinancial Secretary will be granted time off, without pay to attend the regular evening monthly Union meetings of the executive and the membership. Wherever possible, two (2) weeks notice of required leaves will be given Io the Company.
11.0!) If the Company is given at mast one (1) week’s riotice in writing, a leave of absence, without pay, will be granted to an employee acting as a steward, or officer of the Union, or Chairman of Standing Committees riot io exceed eight (U) in number (maximum two (2) employees from any one (l)department) to attend one of the Union’s labour seminars. Wherever possible, two (2) weeks notice ol required leaves will be given to the Company.
i 1.06 Ihero are special and unusual circumstances when an employee will be granted time off with pay. Under such special circumstances an employee may be granted sixty-four (64) hours oil in any
:i6
calendar year, except for the first year of employment. Approval of the employee's supervisor must be obtained prior to the absence to be eligible to receive time off with pay. In the event the employee cannot contact his immediate supervisor, approval may be obtained from another supervisor in the employee's work area. In an emergency situation, exceptions to the prior notification requirements may be made for justifiable reasons.
Employees will be entitled for days under this section after one (1) year of employment. Forthe first year of employment days will be prorated to the end of the calendar year of eligibility.
The following are the only reasons for grating time-off with pay:
1.	Illness of employee.
2.	Serious illness of a member of employee's immediate family that requires the employee's presence at home.
3.	Wedding of member of immediate family, or employee's own wedding.
4.	Funeral of member of immediate family.
5.	Immediate family is defined as spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, child, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandchildren, and the grandparents of the employee or his/her spouse.
37
Common law spouse only, but not his/her family or dependents, will be considered as immediate family for the purposes of this Clause and shall mean a person who although riot legally married to an employee, has co-habitated with that employee in the mariner of husband and wife for a period of not less than six (6) months, and the employee has previously notified the Company in writing that such is his/her common law spouse.
6.	For child birth of the employee's spouse.
7.	For an employee to act as a pallbearer for a deceased fellow employee.
8.	For medical and dental appointments not Company arranged.
If an employee is absent in excess of one shift arid there is any dispute on the validity of tho reason for a request for time off with pay, the employee shall provide a medical certificate or other such satisfactory proof of the reason for his absence.
Abuse of the provisions of this clause by an employee will result in the cancellation of any betiefits conferred by this clause and is subject to discipline procedure.
At the end of each calendar year, the unused portion of sixty-four (64) hours time-off-with-pay will be accumulated from year to year, for the purpose of Accident and Sickness only. Upon reaching 120 hours, the excess time will be converted to a dollar
38
amount (ie. number of excess hours X basic hourly rate, less any applicable deductions) and deposited into the Individual Wage Security Account of each Employee. The full text cf the Individual Wage Security Account Agreement contains the exact terms and conditions and shall be the governing factor whenever a question arises.
Funds in the I.W.S. Account, including accrued interest, can be drawn out during layoffs of one week or more at the rate of $150.00 per week. When the Account balance exceeds $2,500.00, the excess can be taken out in cash in February of each year. Upon termination, all monies including accrued interest will be paid out.
In the event cf Accident or Sickness of the employee, a minimum of twenty-four (24) accumulated unused hours will be utilized prior to the employee becoming eligible for the Company's Accident and Sickness program.
At the employee's option, addition unused tiours may be utilized prior to the Accident and Sickness Program.
11.07	Jury and Witness Duty:
An employee who is prevented from working any of his scheduled hours of work by virtue of having been called to Jury Duty by the Crown or having been subpoenaed as a Witness in a court of Law in a case other
39
than his own, shall receive the difference between the jury or witness fee received by him and the straight time rate of his G|ast;ification, excluding all premiums, for the fiours missed, not to exceed eighty (80) hours averaged over a two week period.
The employee shall notify the company at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the day that lie is to report for Jury Duty or as a Witness, and shall provide proof of such service.
When an employee is excused from Jury or Witness duty on a scheduled work day, lie shall notify his supervisor arid report fur work on his regular shift unless a conflict between Jury 01 Witness duty and scheduled working time prevents his reporting for work.
11.08	An employee who cannot report tor work on his regularly scheduled shift shall notify his immediate supervisor prior to the start of Iris shift. If it is impossible to notify his immediate supervisor, lie shall notily another supervisor in his work area to report his absence.
i i.09 The employer will grant an employee a period of sixty (60) days unpaid leave of absence subject to at least forty-eight (48) hours written notice of such requested leave to seek the nomination and/or run as a candidate in a Federal, Provincial or Municipal election for public office. On
40
election, the leave may be extended for addition one (1) year periods upon written request of the Union.
11.10	Educational Leave
When an employee wishes to further the possibility of his advancement with the Company by taking a full-time course of training, the Company will, subject to the requirements and efficiency of the operations grant him an Educational Leave of Absence without pay provided that:
a)	The employee requests the leave in writing at least thirty (30) days in advance.
b)	The employee has at least three (3) years cf seniority.
c)	t he leave is not lor a period in excess of ten months.
The nuinbei of employees granted Educational Leaves of Absence from any department at any one time may be restricted by the Company so as to not interfere unduly with tho operations of that department.
If an employee fails to maintain regular attendance at tho course of training for reasons other than proven illness, his leave will be cancelled and his employment may be terminated by the Company.
11.11	For all Leaves of Absence under Articles
41
11.03, I 1.09, I I. 10, thfi following conditions shall apply:
1.	All employees privileges except the right to be reinstated, the right to benefits as indicated, and the right to the grievance procedure, shall be forfeited.
2.	After thirty days leave, should the employee wisli to maintain benefit coverage under the following plans, the employee will be required to pay the full premium costs of such benefits, i.e. Life and Disability Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, Medical Services Insurant;;;, etc.
3.	I he Company may require the employee to have a medical examination before and aftei the Leave oi Absence.
4.	Hie period oi leave sha.il bo included in determining ihe employee’.-; seniority.
!>. The employer; shall leium to his previous job on completion of tin; leave piovided he is entitled io such job by his senioiiiy.
ARTICLE Mil ■--• MG/mONS* IfiYISi IW
12.01	An employee with loss than one (I) year of continuous omploymonl as or June 30, or the appropriate pay period ending at this time as determined lay ihe Company, shall be granted an annual vacation of ten (IO)
43
working hours per month of service, but not to exceed 120 working hours arid vacation pay of six percent (6%), of his total earnings during the vacation period.
12.02	Vacation Entitlement — hours are to be rounded to the nearest whole shift and vacation pay is calculated on earnings to the end of the last pay period ending before June 17th each year.
One or more years, but loss than six years
Six years, but less than seven years
Seven years, but loss than eight years
hight years, but less than nine years
Nine years, but less than ten years
Ien years, hut less than fifteen years
VACATION	VACATION PAY (based on gross earnings during entitlement year)
120 working hours	6.0%
128 working hours	6.4%
136 working hours	6.8%
144 working hours	7.2%
152 working hours	7 G%
160 working hours	8.0%
(Tlie following provision is effective July 1, 1992)
F ifteen years or moio	200
working hours	10.0%
43
12.03	Vacations will be granted in accordance with the Labour Standards Act.
12.04	All vacations must be taken at a time satisfactory to the Company and will be arranged, when possible, in accordance with the wishes of the employees.
A vacation maintenance shutdown may be designated by the Company provided it falls during the school summer vacation period arid the Union will be notified of the Com pany’s intention regarding such vacation maintenance shutdown riot latei than Apiil I, of that year.
12.05	Seniority will be given every possible consideration for vacation requests received prior to April 15th. It is understood that the requirements of the vacation maintenance shutdown may take precedence over vacation requests.
12.06	Vacations are not cumulative arid cannot be
carried over to the following year.
12.0/ Employees will not be paid in lieu of vacation.
12.08	If a Public Holiday as designated in Article XIII occurs duririg an employee’s vacation period, tic; shall receive an additional day of vacation and shall be paid for the Public
t ioliday.
12.09	A vacation bonus ol bitty (50) dollars will be
44
paid to eligible employees who have accumulated five (5) full years of continuous service prior to the entitlement date of July 1 each year. A vacation Bonus of One Hundred (100) dollars will be paid to eligible employees who have accumulated ten (10) years of continuous service prior to the entitlement date of July 1 each year.
12.10	a) Employees who were absent and on Workers' Compensation, or those employees with more than one (1) year's service who were absent and on Accident and Sickness benefit who worked in a vacation year but were absent for more than thirty (30) consecutive days during that vacation year will have their gross earnings for vacation adjusted to a maximum of fifty-two weeks on any one disability. The adjustment will be based on the number of working hours lost during that vacation year and the base rate, excluding differentials, which would have been applicable during the absence. The adjustment will not apply for any period in which the employee would have been laid off had he not been on such disabi lity.
b) Employees who are absent in attendance at Apprenticeship School in accordance with Appendix B1.02, will have their gross earnings for vacation adjusted based on the number of working hours lost during such absence and the base rate excluding all differentials, which would have been applicable during the absence.
45
ARTICLE XIII — PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
13.01	a) The following days will be observed as Public Holidays:
New Year's Day
Heritage Day, or the 3rd Monday in February Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day First Monday in August Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
b)	Intheeventa Public Holiday falls after an employee is laid off, he shall bo paid eight (8) hours at his basic hourly rate foi the Holiday providing he worked at least one (1) complete shift during tho fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately prior to the Holiday. In addition, if an employee is eligible to receive pay under this clause lor Christmas Day, he shall also bo paid for Boxing Day arid New Year’s Day.
This provision does not apply to an employee who is eligible lor Disability or Workers' Compensation benefits when the holiday falls.
I3.02	If an employee is scheduled to work on any or all of the Public Holidays arid the Company docs not require him io work on any or
46
all of the Public Holidays, tie shall be entitled to his regular wages exclusive cf overtime for that day were that day nct a holiday.
13.03	If an employee does work on any or all of the Public Holidays, he shall bo paid eight (8) hours at his basic hourly rate and be paid two (2) times his basic hourly rate for all hours worked.
13.04	When New Year's Day, Christmas Day or Remembrance Day falls on a Sunday, then the Monday following such day shall be observed as New Year's Day, Christmas Day or Remembrance Day for the purposes of Article 13.01; and further when Christmas Day is moved to the following Monday then the next day, Tuesday, shall be observed as Boxing Day for the purposes of Article 13.01.
13.05	1 his Article shall not limit the right of the Company to schedule an employee to work on any such Public Holiday. However, the Company agrees that the number of employees required shall bo minimized as tar as practicable without interfering with the operation.
13.06	An employee who was not scheduled to work and does not work on any or all Public Holidays, shall bo entitled to his regular basic wage, provided he has worked his last scheduled shift prior to the Public Holiday and his first scheduled shift after the Public Holiday.
47
13.07	An employee who has been scheduled to work on a Public Holiday arid does not work shall not receive any pay for that holiday, unless he gives reasons satisfactory io the Company for such failure to work.
13.08	The work week is to be reduced by eight (8) hours for each holiday listed in 13.01 for the purpose of pay calculations only.
ARTICLE XIV — HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
14.01	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee nor to maintain the work week or working hours.
14.02	A day means a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours commencing with the start of an employee's scheduled shift.
14.03	The work week shall be the period commencing midnight Saturday, and ending at midnight the following Saturday.
14.04	Hoisting and lowering schedules foi employees working underground will be arranged to accommodate the scheduled shift for that day from collar to collai but variations from such schedules not exceeding fifteen (lb) minutes which do not oceui consistently shall be disregarded. Any delay greater than fifteen (lb) minutes in hoisting employees horn underground which is due to necessary repair work or
safety considerations or causes beyond the Company's control shall be paid for on tho basts of two (2) times the employee's basic hourly rate, but such time shall riot be considered to be time worked.
14.05	An employee shall be paid two (2) times his basic hourly rate for time actually worked in excess of his daily scheduled hours or for hours worked in excess of the hours of the averaging provision in effect.
14.06	If an employee is required by the Company to work his scheduled day off, he shall bo paid two (2) times his basic hourly rate for all hours actually worked on his scheduled day off.
A scheduled day off shall be defined as starting when the employee has completed his scheduled shift.
14.07	If an employee's scheduled days off arc changed with less than twenty-four (24) hours notice prior to commencement of his days off, he shall be paid at two (2) times his basic hourly rate for the first day worked of his previously scheduled days off.
14.08	There shall Ire no “pyramiding” of overtime.
14.09	a) When art employee is called out to work after he has left the site, he shall receive payment of $20.00 or .20‘ per kilometer travelled from his place of residence (maximum $25.00 per round trip).
49
He shall be paid four (4) hours at his basic hourly rate, or two times (2) his basic hourly rate lor all hours worked, whichever is the greater; provided, however, that when such work continues into the employee’s regular work shift, such work prior to his regular work shift shall be paid for at two (2)times his basic hourly rate, and his regular work shift shall be paid for at the basic hourly rate for the hours worked.
b)	An employee so called out shall not be required to perform routine work, after he has completed the work for which he was originally called out, excepting that he may be required to perform other emergency work consistent with his skills which has arisen from the time of the callout or arises during the period of the callout.
c)	An employee called out oilier than to replace an absent employee, who works any portion of time in the first four (4) hours of the aiylit (8) hours immediately proceeding Iris next scheduled shirt, will not be required for hi:; regular shift that day until eigtit (8) hours have elapsed from the time he finished callout work. He will be paid at his base straight time rate for any time missed on his regular shift due to this provision.
If tho employee has less than two hours left in liis regular shift after the required eight hours rest period, lie will riot be required to work tho remaindei of the shift and lie will
not receive pay for the additional time missed.
d)	When callout continues into an employee’s regular scheduled shift, an employee will be permitted to work to the end of his regular scheduled shift.
14.10	a) An employee who reports for work on his regular shift and was not told in advance not to report, shall be given his regular scheduled hours of work, or, at the Company's option, shall be given his scheduled hours of work pay at his basic hourly rate. When such employee has no transportation available, he shall be provided transportation to his residence.
b) This provision shall not apply to an employee who is returning to work after an unauthorized absence. This provision will not apply it the employee has been absent from work and fails before returning to work to notify the Company of his intention to return tu work; or if the employee has not notified the Company of his correct telephone number; or if he has no telephone.
14.11	The daily lunch period for an employee who is on a continuous shift schedule shall he thirty (30) minutes which will be paid as though the employee worked, during which time he shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of service.
51
The daily lunch period for an employee who is on a day shift schedule will be thirty (30) minutes, work station to work station, which will be paid as though the employee worked.
14.12	When an employee is required to work overtime for more than two (2) hours following his scheduled shift, he shall be supplied a lunch. If the overtime will progress past another normal meal interval (approximately four (4) hours), a second lunch will be provided. Employees shall be provided with a twenty (20) minute paid break to eat the lunch provided.
Meals will not be provided for scheduled overtime work.
Supervisors shall have the option of allowing a lunch allowance in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) in lieu of u lunch break if the employee is in agreement. This will not be applicable if the overtime exceeds two and one half (2 '/a) hours from tire start of the overtime shift.
14.13	When an employee is required to work unscheduled overtime and there is no transportation available, he shall be provided transportation to his residence.
14.14	The Company will post weekly work schedules. The Company will not change these work schedules lo avoid the payment of overtime.
52
14.15	Overtime will be voluntary, except when an employee cannot be relieved or in the event of an emergency.
ARTICLE XV - SAFETY AND
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
15.01	The Union, Company and the employee(s) recognizing the benefits to be derived from a safe and healthy place of employment will all cooperate to make the Company a safe, clean and sanitary place to work. Safety and health are the responsibility of every person. Reasonable rules and regulations may be established and enforced by the Company for the health arid safety of employees and the protection of Company and employee property, arid to maintain clean and sanitary work areas. Failure to cooperate, being to the detriment of all employees, shall be deemed just cause for discipline.
15.02	a) The Union shall appoint a Safety Committee composed of three (3) employees for the mine and three (3)employees for the plant. In addition, the Union may appoint alternate delegate:; to replace each of the six (6) regulai delegates.
Members of the Safety Committee, or their appointed alternates, shall accompany the Safety Supervisor on a regularly scheduled inspection of their respective working areas, once each month and on tho following basis:
53
i)	The Safety Committeemen from the underground group shall inspect the underground areas.
ii)	The Safety Committeemen from the surface group shall inspect the surface areas.
b)	The Surface Co-chairman of the safety committee shall accompany the safety committee on surface tours and the Underground Co-chairman of the safety committee shall accompany the safety con-l-mittee on underground tours.
c)	The underground and surface committees shall meet as ajoint committee at least once quarterly and shall tour at the request of either Co-chairinan of the committee. The Committee Members will be given one-half (Vz) hour prepatation time prior to each joint meeting to prepare an agenda.
d)	I lie Safety Committee shall act as a Safety Committee as prescribed in the Occupation Health Act of 1972, as amended.
e)	Employees on the Safety Committee shall not suffer loss of pay for time spent in the performance of these duties during their regularly scheduled working hours.
f)	If a corninittee member is on scheduled time off, he will be paid his basic hourly wages exclusive of differentials, for time spent in attendance at the meeting. Such
54
time will not be considered as time worked for the purpose of calculating overtime.
15.03	The Company shall continue its policy of paying an employee for his full work shift if the employee sustains a compensable industrial accident and is unable to complete the balance of the shift.
15.04	The Company agrees to continue its present practices with regard to the supply of required personal safety equipment.
15.05	The Company may replace an employee's clothing irrepairably damaged as the result of an industrial accident.
15.06	The Company agrees that any employee who is required by the Company to undergo medical examination during his regular working hours will not lose pay for the time spent obtaining the examination up to a maximum of three (3) hours at straight time rate.
ARTICLE XVI — UNION SECURITY
16.01	In accordance with the requirements of the Saskatchewan Trade Union Act, every employee, who is now oi hereafter becomes a member of the Union, shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of employment, and every new employee whose ernployinerit commences hereafter shall, within thirty (30) days after the commencement in his employment, apply for,
55
and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of his employment, provided that any employee in the appropriate bargaining unit who is not required to maintain his membership or apply for arid maintain his membership in the Union shall, as a condition of his employment, tender to the Union the periodic dues uniformly required to be paid by the members of the Union.
16.02	During the term c£ this Agreement, the Company will deduct from the wages owing to each employee in the bargaining unit, (who has duly completed upon commencement of employment an assignment of wages lor union dues), union dues in accordance with the formula provided by the
United Steelworkers of America effective February 1, 1989.
16.03	In accordance with the l rade Union Act, a list of employees, who have provided the Company with such authority, shall accompany the payment to the Union.
16.0-1 The Union agrees to indemnify arid save the Company harmless from any liability or action, arising out of the operation of this Article.
ARTICLE XVII — HANDICAPPED EMPLOYEES
17.01	In the event an employee sustains an injury at work, or becomes affected by an occupa-
66
tional disease during the course of his employment and becomes physically handicapped as a result thereof, every reasonable effort will be made by the Company to give the handicapped employee a job suitable to his conditions if such is available in which case the provisions of Article 8.18 shall not apply.
ARTICLE XVIII - BULLETIN BOARDS
18.01	The Company shall provide arid maintain Union Bulletin Boards at locations agreed upon by the Union and the Company. Such Bulletin Boards may be used by the Union for the purpose of posting notices signed by the President of the Union or in his absence an officer thereof. The Union or its members shall not otherwise post or distribute any kind of literature upon the property of the Company without first obtaining written approval of the Company.
ARTICLE XIX - COOPERATIVE WAGE STUDY
19.01	The Cooperative Wage Study (C.W.S.) Manual for the Job Description, Classification and Wage Administration, dated July 27, 1979 (herein referred to as "the Manual") is incorporated into this Agreement as APPENDIX "A" and its provisions shall apply as if set forth in full within this Agreement.
19.02	Each employee’s job shall bo described and
57
classified and a rate of pay applied to such employee in accordance with the provisions in this Agreement.
19.03	The Standard Hourly Wage Scale set forth in Schedule "A" and any increases thereto, shall become effective on the dates specified in Schedule "A".
The rates for each job class shall bo the standard hourly rate for all jobs classified within such job class and shall be applied to any employee in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
IEMPORARYTRANSFER
19.04	An employee who is temporarily transferred from his regular job shall be paid the standard hourly rate of the job io which he has been transferred, provided such rate is not less than that ot his regular job. If the rate of the job to which lie is temporarily transferred, but riot as a result of a lay-off, is loss than the rate of his regular job, tic shall he paid the rate of his regular job during the period of such temporary transfer.
INCENTIVES
19.05	Should the Company desire to install incon fives io cover any jobs, the following shall govern:
a) I ho standard hour ly rates for tire respective jobs shall be tho base rates and
!)fj
minimum hourly guaranteed rates for such incentives; and
b) The Company shall first discuss with and explain to the Union the development of any incentive plan and reach mutual agreement with the Union regarding such incentive plan before such incentive plan is installed.
GENERAL
19.06	Any mathematical or clerical errors made in the preparation, establishment or application of job descriptions, classifications or standard hourly rates shall be corrected to conform to the provisions of this Agreement.
19.07	Except as otherwise provided, no basis shall exist for an employee covered by this Agreement to allege that a wage rate inequity exists.
I HADE AND ASSIGNED MAINTENANCE
CONVENTION
19.06 In addition lo the provisions ol the Manual foi describing arid classifying trade and assigned maintenance jobs the following
shall apply:
A) I ho description arid classification shall be carried out in accordance with the
Manual.
IT) The job classification of trade jobs, hav-
59
mg been classified as in Paragraph (a), above, shall be increased by two job classes and the two job classes shall bo incorporated into the total classification of the job.
C)	I tic job classification of assigned maintenance jobs, having been classified at job class eleven or higher as in Paragraph
(A),above, shall be increased by two job classes which shall be incorporated into the total classification of the job.
D)	Where a change in an existing job requires a new description and classification for a job on which this convention has already been applied, such job shall be reclassified in the same manner as that followed prior to the application of this convention and the provision:; of Paragraphs (A), (B) and (C), above, shall apply.
TIMt Off I OR G.WCOMMI I II I
19.09 There shall be a committee known as the “G.W.o. Committee”, consisting of ttiree (3) employees appointed by the Union to represent the Union and three (3) persons ap pointed by the Company to represent the Company, bithoi party may change its representatives from time to time.
Meetings of ttie G.W.S. Coinmitloes stial I bo IidIcI as fiequently an required at mutually agieoable times.
GO
I tic Company agrees to grant time off from their regular work to the three (3) union C.W.S. Committee members to perform ttieir C.W.S. responsibilities. This time off shall be considered as time worked and the Union Committee members shal I:
(A)	Accumulate any seniority to which they normally would be entitled.
(B)	Receive their regular rate of pay from the Company as based upon a normal work week, and
(C)	Return to their regular employment when their C.W.S. work is completed.
ARTICLE XX — SUPERVISORS WORKING
20.01	A supetvisor's prime responsibility is to plan, organize and supervise the work of his men. Supervisory personriel will not perform work normally done by a bargaining unit employee, except:
-	in emergencies for protection of Company property, and/or the safety and health
of employees;
in the instruction and training of
employees;
-	work of a research and development nature,
61
ARTICLE XXI — TOOLS
21.01	The Company will issue the employee at no cost the tools required in the opinion of the Company for the performance of the work by the employee. The employee will sign for all tools at the time of issue.
21.02	The employee shall be responsible for all tools issued to him. All tools issued to the employee shall be returned in good condition, excusing fair wear and tear only, upon the request of the Company or upon termination. The cost of any tool which is not returned shall be deducted from any wages due and payable to the employee.
21.03	The employee’s supetvisor may authorize the replacement of a broken or worn out tool, or a tool lost due to excusable circumstances.
21.04	Clothing and Boot Allowance
A clothing and boot allowance of $125.00 will be paid to employees of record as of July 1st eacti year, commencing July 1992, to be paid on the first full pay period of that riionth.
21.05	Two (2) pairs of work gloves will be issued to employees in January, May and September of each year at no cost io the employee and employees are expected to have work gloves on the job and use them as required.
A new employee will bo issued two new
02
pairs of work gloves at no charge at the time of hiring.
ARTICLE XXII - WAGE DIFFERENTIALS
22.01	Shift Workers working on the Afternoon and Midnight shifts shall be paid premiums over and above their basic hourly wage rate as follows:
Afternoon shift — 50*/hour Graveyard shift — 50*/hour
22.02	Employees shall receive an additional forty (40) cents per hour while working underground.
22.03	Cost of Living Clause — The Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) is based on the All Canada Consumers Price Index (CPI) 1971 - 100 as published by Statistics Canada. Should the CPI for March 1983 as published in April 1983 exceed the CPI for March 1982 by more than the negotiated percentage (11%), a COLA will be generated and calculated at (1*) for each .200 (0.200) of a full point in excess of the negotiated percentage. The COLA will become payable the first full pay period following the publication of the CPI for March 1983, and will be folded into the basic hourly rate.
The provisions of this clause will be inoperative during the term of this Agreement.
63
22.04	The Company will pay an employee who is scheduled to work on a Sunday a premium of one dollar seventy-five cents ($1.75) for each hour actually worked on Sunday. This is in addition to any shift or underground differential. Sunday premium shall not be paid for the hour(s) an employee works at overtime rates or on a Statutory Holiday.
ARTICLE XXIII - NOTICE
23.01	Any notice in writing which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by registered mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows.
To the Company:
PCS Inc., Allan Division Allan, Saskatchewan SOK 0C0
To the Union:
United Steelworkers of America, Cl.C Local 7689
No. 12 - 3311 Fairlight Drive Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7M 3Y5
23.02	Any notice so mailed shall be deemed given as of the next business day after date of mailing. The registration receipt shall establish the date of mailing.
23.03	Either party may change its address for sor-vice of notices at any time by notice as above mentioned.
64
ARTICLE XXIV - COPIES OF AGREEMENT
24.01 The Company will arrange to have copies of this Agreement printed in a suitable booklet for reference of employees and make one (1) copy available to each employee.
ARTICLE XXV - TERMS OF THE AGREEMENT
25.01	This agreement shall become effective the date of ratification and shall continue in full force and effect until midnight April 30, 1994, and from year to year thereafter unless written notice is given as provided by Article 25.02.
25.02	On written notice of not less than thirty (30) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the expiry date of this Agreement either party to this Agreement may give notice to require the other party to enter into negotiations for a new Agreement.
25.03	This document contains the entire Agreement between the parties and shall not be deemed modified or expanded in any way unless such modification or expansion shall be evidenced in writing, signed by both parties and dated on or subsequent to the date of this Agreement.
65
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC.:
J.	Gugulyn, Senior Vice President Administration
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF PCS INC.,
ALLAN DIVISION:
K.	A. Podwin, Maintenance Superintendent
L.	S. Toth, Mine Maintenance Superintendent W.D. Walters, Industrial Relations
Superintendent
D.A. Weinheimer, Administrative Superintendent
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STEEWORKERS OF AMERICA, CLC:
D. Zacharias, International Representative
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, CLC, and its LOCAL 7689:
R. St. Pierre, President-G.A. Phillips, Representative, Underground Maintenance
G.M. Eckart, Representative, Mill Production R.L. Howell, Representative, Underground
Maintenance
R.H. Francis, Representative, Mill Maintenance
06
APPENDIX “A”
STANDARD HOURLY WAGE SCALE
In accordance with Article 19.03ofthisAgreement and the provision of the Cooperative Wage Study, the Standard Hourly Wage Scales listed below become effective on the dates specified.
DATE:	DATE:
May 1, 1990 ‘May 1, 1991 Job Increment Increment Class	36.5'	38.0'
01	12.115	12.78
02	12.480	13.16
03	12.845	13.54
04	13.210	13.92
05	13.575	14.30
06	13.940	14.68
07	14.305	15.06
08	14.670	15.44
09	15.035	15.82
10	15.400	16.20
11	15.765	16.58
12	16.130	16.96
13	16.495	17.34
14	16.860	17.72
15	17.225	18.10
16	17.590	18.48
17	17.955	18.86
18	18.320	19.24
19	18.685	19.62
20	19.050	20.00
DATE:	DATE:
May 1, 1992	May 1, 1993
Increment	Increment
39.5“	41.0'
13.295	13.74
13.690	14.15
14.085	14.56
14.480	14.97
14.875	15.38
15.270	15.79
15.665	16.20
16.060	16.61
16.455	17.02
16.850	17.43
17.245	17.84
17.640	18.25
18.035	18.66
18.430	19.07
18.825	19.48
19.220	19.89
19.615	20.30
20.010	20.71
20.405	21.12
20.800	21.53
* Retroactivity based on all hours worked and Public Holiday hours paid for all employees on the active payroll as of the date of ratification.
67
EXHIBIT ”A'
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE
MINE OPERATING DEPARTMENT
Job		Training		Job		Training
Class				Class		Class
19	Mine	3)	17	15	Service	3) 13
	Machine	2)	15		Crew	2) 11
	Op.	1)	13		Op. I I	1) 9
17	I Rehab.	3)	15	13	'Service	2) 1 1
	Machino	2)	13		Crow	1) 9
	Op.	1)	11		Op. II	
15
Back-up Op. I
2)	13
1) 11
10 'Back-up 1)	0
Op. II
Job
Class
3 Labourer
Foolnotes
250 hours actually worked in each training class * Bid Level Jobs
NOTES
The respective job trainee periods are loi an emjrloyco who does riot have training by direct promotional sequence through the ap propriate line of progression, and tic will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
68
EXHIBIT MA'
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE
MINE OPERATING DEPARTMENT
JOB CLASS 16
17
12
13
io
Holslmfin
I
Stallman
I
CageterKior
Skiptendor
I
Wagorvnaslot
HOISTMAN/SMAFTMAN LINE
TRAINING CLASS
2)	14
I)	12
3)	15
2)	13
1)	11
1)	10
1)	11
n	g
1)	0
JOD CLASS TRAINING CLASS JOO CLASS 9	* Lubricator 1)	7	11	‘
{* BID LEVEL JODS)
TRAINING CLASS
Dispatcher 1)	9
Footnotes
250 hours actually worked in each training class. NOTES
The respective job trainee periods are for an employee who does not have training by direct promotional sequence through the appropriate line of progression, and he will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
69
EXHIBIT “B”
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE MINE MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Job P.lass	Trade Jobs			
18	Heavy Duty Mpnhanir	Industrial Mechanic	Electrician	Welder
	“r ‘Apprentice	l ‘Apprentice	—I		 ‘Apprentice	1 ‘Apprentice
FOOTNOTES
For the Apprenticeship Training periods see Schedule Appendix E.
The trade jobs listed above shall receive a two job class additive for the Company recognized licensed journeyman ticket. This two job class additive is interpreted as the two job class additive in Article 19.08 - Trade and Maintenance Convention, sub-section (b) of this Agreement.
Bid Level Job
EXHIBIT “C”
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE PLANT OPERATING DEPARTMENT
* OPERATOR GENERA1
I
FLOTATION
TRA1NINQ
CLASS
3} 17 2) 15 l> 13
CRYSTALLIZATION
I
COMPACTION
I
PRODUCT SCREENING ANO DISPATCH
I
DEWATER AND SLURRY
I
FEED PREPARATION
•REAGENTS
' PLANT UTILITY
2) 14 1) 12
2) 12 1) 10
2) 10 1> 0
Footnotes
250 hours actually worked in each training class * Bid level job
' * The Operator General must have training in the Reagent Area.
NOTES
If it becomes necessary to have Reagents on more than one shift, Reagents would be put back into the Lines of Progression between Plant Utility arid Feed Preparation Operator, and would no longer be a bid level job.
The respective job trainee periods are for an employee who does riot have training by direct promotional sequence through the appropriate line of progression, and he will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
An employee progressing through the direct line of progression from Compaction to Crystallization will receive an additional twenty cents (20‘) per hour while in Crystallization and on progressing tu Flotation will receive a further twenty cents (20‘) per hour while in Flotation. The employee will not retain these additional monies when progressing to the position of Operator General.
71
EXHIBIT “D”
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE PLANT MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Job
Class
Trade Jobs Electrician
Stationary Enc. II
Industrial
Mechanic
-----1-----
'Apprentice
Heavy Duty Mechanic
—i
Carpenter
Job Class 16
Assigned Maintenance Jobs * Sandblaster Painter
*	Lubricator
*	Tool Crib Attendant
3)	14
2) 12
1) 10
1)	7
1) 6
Footnotes
For :he Apprenticeship training pe-iobs see Schedule Appendix E * Bid Level Job
The trade jobs listed aDove shall receive a two job class additive for the Company recognized licensed Journeyman ticket. This two job class additive is interpreted as the two job class additive in Article 19.08 -Trade and Maintenance Convention, sub-section(b) of this Agreement.
NOTE — Assigned Maintenance Jobs
The job trainee period shown are for an employee who does not have ihe appropriate job training. When this occurs then the employee will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
— 250 hours actually worked in each training class.
Welder
Training Class
EXHIBIT “E'
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN PLANTLOADOUT
Job Class		Training Class
15	Weighmaster I	1)	13 2)	11 3) 9
13	Mobile Equipment Operator I	1) 11 2) 9
s	Chute Operator i	1) 7
8 '	Utility Operator	
3	Labourer	
Footnotes
250 hours actually worked in each training class * Bid Level Job
NOTE
The respective job trainee periods are for an employee who does not have training by direct promotional sequence through the appropriate line of progression, and he will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
73
EXHIBIT “F’
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE
WAREHOUSE DEPARTMENT
Job
Class
Training
Class
12	'Warehouseman
2) 10 1) 8
FOOTNOTES
250 hours actually worked in each training class
* Bid Level Job
NOTE
The job trainee period shown are for an employee who does not have the appropriate job training. When this occurs then the employee will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
74
EXHIBIT “G
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE
SAFETY DEPARTMENT
Job
Class
5	* Dryman
FOOTNOTES
* Bid Level Job
75
APPENDIX B APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
B1.01 Apprenticeship vacancies as determined by the Company shall be filled in accordance with the job posting provisions of Article 8.18 of this Collective Agreement subject to the qualification requirements as determined by the Apprenticeship Branch and upon the bidder demonstrating the potential to successfully complete the program through a prescribed aptitude test.
An eligible employee can only enter one apprenticeship during his employment with the Company, unless the original apprenticeship was cancelled as in B1.01 or a minimum of 4 years has passed since the employee was removed from an Apprenticeship for any reason. Journeymen will not be allowed to enter the Apprenticeship Program nor will any other employee employed as a Tradesman.
B1.02 Employees who are indentured will be given leaves cf absence in order lo attend formal training in accordance with the number and types of courses offered and the ability of the Company to meet its normal requirements of operation.
B1.03 Successful candidates will be placed in available Apprenticeships in order of seniority and will start at the entry level unless they are recognized by the Apprenticeship Branch as eligible io enter at a higher level.
76
B1.04 a) Subject to (d) and (e) below apprenticed employees, while taking the off site Apprenticeship Training Program will be paid the equivalent of their regular salaries (basic straight time rate with no premium pay) less any training allowance monies received from Government sources.
b)	Any Government "living away from home” allowance received by the apprentice while on a training course will not be deducted in any calculation made by the Company in order to determine the basis of Company monetary assistance during Apprenticeship training.
c)	While taking the above training, the employee will be paid return mileage for one complete trip per week (at the rate of eighteen (18) cents per kilometre) less any mileage monies received from Government sources.
d)	If the employee fails to pass any level of training on the first attempt, he will only be paid make-up pay (asdescribed in(a)above) for repeating one level. He will be eligible for mileage allowance as in (c) above and the cost of benefit coverage (as outlined in Article 11.11 Leave of Absence) will be paid by the Company while the employee is on approved leave of absence for such training.
e)	Employees who arc required to take formal training after the second attempt at the Journeyman's exam will receive the make-
77
up pay and mileage allowance described in (a) and (c) above if the training requiresthem to be absent from work.
B1.05 a) Apprenticeship wages will beasshown in Appendix C.
b)	An apprentice will only move to the next pay rate after having successfully completed the course as prescribed by the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch, or after having ocmpleted the required months of experience.
c)	Any Company wage allowance paid to an apprentice who is away on a training course will be paid on the normal pay dates of the Company.
B1.06 In the event an apprentice, while on course, is excused from attendance, as shown on his course report, and received his full wage allowance from the Government program, he may also receive his full allowance from the Company as per Article 11.06. If the apprentice is not excused from attendance he shall receive no wage allowance.
B1.07 An apprentice will be removed from the Apprenticeship Program and his Apprenticeship contract cancelled for any of the following reasons:
a)	Just cause.
b)	If an apprentice fails to take the training
78
course when he is scheduled to take same, provided that his failure to take such course is not due to a cause beyond his control or the Company has agreed to a change in scheduled training.
c)	If an apprentice fails a training course at any one level on more than one occasion.
d)	If an apprentice fails the Journeyman's exam on the third attempt.
B1.08 When an employee is indentured, his regular hourly rate will be maintained until such time as his Apprentice rate level becomes greater than his regular rate at which time his rate shall be increased to the Apprenticeship rate.
B1.09 If an employee fails to satisfactorily perform the duties in an Apprenticeship Program, as per B1.07 he shall be returned to his last job classification prior to entry into the Apprenticeship Program, and assignment, if the job assignment still exists.
B1.10 If an Apprenticeship is cancelled due to a reduction of the work force, the displaced Apprentice will be returned to the assignment he held immediately prior to becoming an Apprentice, if the job assignment still exists.
79
° APPENDIX C Apprenticeship
SCHEDULE OF APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING
! Trace
i race
Licensed J'Man
APPENDIX D
NON TRADE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
A schedule of Trainee rates for the respective Trainee periods of 250 hours of actual training experience with the Company on jobs for which training opportunity is not provided by the promo tional sequence of related jobs, shall be establish., ed at the level of the Standard Hourly Wage Scale rates for the respective job classes. This determination shall be on the basis of the required employment training and experience time specified in Factor 2 of the job classification record of the respective job as follows:
(A)	Code C:	Seven to twelve months:
(1)One trainee period classification at a level two job classes below the job class of the job.
(B)	Code D: Thirteen to eighteen months:
(1)	A first trainee period classification at a level four job classes below the job class of the job, and
(2)	A second trainee period classification at a level two job classes below the job class of the job.
(C)	Code E and higher: nineteen months and
above:
81
(1)	A first trainee period classification at a level six job classes below the job class of the job.
(2)	A second trainee period classification at a level four job classes below the job class of the job, and
(3)	A third trainee period classification at a level two job classes below the job class of the iob.
82
APPENDIX D
List of Non-Trade Jobs in Job Class Factor Two (2) being C.08 or higher
Sandblaster Painter Surface Lubricator Underground Lubricator Surface Tool Crib Attendant Operator General Flotation Crystallization Compaction
Grinding and Desliming Operator Dewater, Drying and Tails Disposal Op.
Reagent Operator Product Screening &
Dispatctiirig Op.
Weighmaster
Mobile Equipment Operator
Crushing and Screening Operator
Chute Operator
Mining Machine Operator
Rehabilitation Mactiinc Operator
Back-up Operator I
Back-up Operator II
Service Crew Operator I
Service Crew Operator II
Shaftman
Hoistman
Skiptendor
Cagetender
Wagonrnastei
Dispatcher
Surface Warehouse
Underground Warehouse
8 and up with are:
Factor 2
E 1.6 C0.8 C0.8 C0.8 G2.4 E 1.6 D1.2 D1.2 C0.8
CO.8 D1.2
D1.2
EI.6
D1.2
C0.8
C0.8
F2.0
EI.6
D1.2
C0.8
F2.0
D1.2
F2.0
D1.2
D1.2
C0.8
C0.8
C0.8
D1.2
D1.2
Job
Class
16
9
9 8 19 16 16 16 13
13 12
14
15 13
10
9 19 17 I5
10
15 13 17
16 13 12 10 11 12 12
83
APPENDIX E
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK (Production employees and others on rotating 12 tiour schedules)
Addendum to the Collective Bargaining Agreement effective April 7, 1992, concluded between Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc., Allan Division, hereinafter called the “Company” and the United Steelworkers of America, C.L.C., for itself and on behalf of its Local 7699, hereinafter called the "Union".
The terms of the cited Collective Bargaining Agreement are the applicable terms to be applied except as modified herein.
This Addendum applies only to those employees working a twelve (1%)hour Compressed Work Week Schedule.
This Addendum shall continue in effect, unless terminated by either party upon written notice. In the event this addendum is terminated, there will be a thirty (30) day cancellation provision with no cost to the Company for discontinuing the schedule and returning to the original schedule.
It is the intent that the Company does not incur any additional costs under the provisions of this addendum that would normally be incurred under tho previous eight (8) hour work schedule. The parties agree that the provisions in this agreement are more favourable than related provisions of the Labour Standards Act.
84
The following is agreed to as a part of the negotiating process between the Union and the Company arid reflects a new and unique approach to the hours of work.
ARTICLE XII — VACATIONS WITH PAY
12.08 If a public holiday as designated in Article XIII occurs during an employee's vacation period, he shall receive an additional working day of vacation and shall be paid for the public holiday in accordance with Article 13.06 of this addendum.
ARTICLE XIII - PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
13.01 a) The following days will be observed as Public Holidays:
New Year's Day
Heritage Day or the 3rd Monday in February Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day First Monday in August Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
85
b) Each Public Holiday will be observed as commencing at 8:00 a.m. the calendar day of the Public Holiday, and ending 8:00 a.m. the calendar day following the Public Holiday. Article 13.04 does not apply to employees covered by this agreement.
I3.06 An employee who was not scheduled to work and does not work on any or all Public Holidays, shall be entitled to eight (8) hours pay at his regular basic wage, provided that he has worked his last scheduled shift prior lo the public holiday and his first scheduled shift after the public holiday.
However, the Company may give an employee another day off without pay to shorten the hours of work in the pay period and in such case his public holiday pay will be the greater of his basic wage times eight (8) hours or times the hours he was scheduled to work on the other day off. Such other day off will be consecutive with the employee's other scheduled days off in the pay period.
13.08 The hours of the two (2) week pay period shall be reduced by eight (8)hours for each holiday listed in 13.01, which falls in such pay period for the purpose of pay calculations only.
86
ARTICLE XIV — HOURS CF WORK AND OVERTIME
14.03 a) Averaging periods commence at 8:00 a.m. on a Sunday.
The work week for the purposes of averaging hours shall be based on an average of forty (40) hours per week over the averaging period.
14.11 The daily lunch period for any employee who is on a continuous shift schedule shall be thirty (30) minutes after approximately four (4) consecutive hours of work and thirty (30) minutes after an additional approximate four (4) hours of work, which will be paid as though the employee worked, during which time he shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of service.
14.15	Overtime will be voluntary, except when an employee cannot be relieved or in the event of an emergency. Due to the length of shifts under this Addendum, overtime will remain voluntary provided there are adequate numbers of qualified employees who serve notice to the company of their availability to work in case of an operational necessity in any shift. If the requirement of voluntary employees are not met, it is understood and agreed, for the continuance of this Addendum, a compulsory rotation selection of employees for such operational necessities shall be mandatory.
87
APPENDIX B - APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
B1.04 a) Apprenticed employees, while taking an off-site training course, will be paid the equivalent of their regular salaries (basic straight time rated based on eight (8) hours per day with no premium pay), less any training allowance monies received hom Government sources.
ARTICLE XXII - WAGE DIFFERENTIALS
22.01 Shift workers working between 4:00 p.rn. and 8:00 a.m. shall be paid a premium over and above their basic hourly wage rate in the amount of fifty (50) cents pet hour.
88
BENEFIT SUMMARY
The following is a brief summary of the benefit plans which will be maintained by the Company on behalf of the members of the Union. The official plan texts state exact terms, conditions and limitations and will be the governing factor whenever a question arises. More information on the following plans can be obtained from the Industrial Relations Department.
The Company will pay the total premium cost of Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, Long Term Disability Insurance, Dental Insurance, Weekly Accident and Sickness Insurance and Group Extended Health Benefits (M.S.I.)
Benefit coverage begins on the first day employment commences except as otherwise stated.
PENSION
(Allan Hourly Plan Registration #Sask 50-696)
Pensionable service begins on the first of the month following one full year of service. At retirement, the pension benefit will be:
■- Twenty-eight ($28.00) dollars per month per year of pensionable service, for employees who retire after January 1, 1992.
89
LIFE INSURANCE
—	benefit two (2) times basic annual earnings taken to the nearest multiple of $1000.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH & DISMEMBERMENT
—	benefit two (2) times basic annual earnings taken to the nearest multiple of $1000.
—	additional benefits include 100% benefit to insured person for loss of both hands, both feet or sight of both eyes (or one of each), speech and hearing.
—	75% benefit for loss of one arm or one leg.
66 2/3% benefit for loss of one hand, one foot, or one eye.
50% benefit for loss of speech or hearing.
33 1/3% benefit for lossof thumb and index finger on either hand.
loss of use of the above may also be covered.
—	in no event shall more than 100% benefit be paid for injuries and/or death resulting from any one accident.
—	no benefits are payable for intentionally self-inflicted injury.
WEEKLY ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS BENEFIT
- Accident and Sickness benefit shall be 70% of base rate to a maximum of $475 per week of benefit effective date of ratification, $500 per week effective May 1, 1992 and $525 per week ef-
YO
fective May 1, 1993 (for disabilities that commence after each date) far up to seventeen (17) weeks of benefit, to take affect on the fourth day for an accident or illness, providod that a minimum of three accumulated sick days and time off with pay entitlement under C.B.A. Clause 11.06 is used prior to Accident and Sickness benefits taking effect.
—	No benefits are payable under the Accident and Sickness program for disabilities covered by Workers' Compensation.
LONG TERM DISABILITY
—	Benefits shall be 70% of base rate monthly earnings to a maximum benefit of $2,090 per month. ($2300 per month effective May 1, 1992, $2500 per month effective May 1, 1993) for disabilities commencing after these dates, to take effect on expiration of Weekly Accident and Sickness Benefit.
—	LTD benefits continue until the recipient recovers, reaches retirement age, is able to engage in other gainful employment, (whichever occurs first), or dies.
—	if an employee is eligible for disability related benefits from any other source (e.g. Canada Pension Plan disability pension), LTD benefits are adjusted so that the combined total of all disability related benefits equal no more than 75% of the employee's original basic earnings.
—	no benefits are payable under the LTD program for disabilities covered by Workers' Compensation.
91
DENTAL PLAN
Provides reimbursement of covered expenses made in accordance with the prevailing Dental Tariff in force in Saskatchewan at the time the expense is incurred, coverage is as follows:
Preventative Treatment — including any necessary X-Rays
.....................100%	paid	by	Plan
Basic Dental — extractions, fillings, etc. .........................80%	paid	by	Plan
Electives — inlays, crowns, etc.
......................80%	paid	by	Plan
Dentures — new, repairs, etc.
......................80%	paid	by	Plan
Orthodontia..............50%	paid	by	Plan
— to a maximum of $1500 per insured individual
—	All dental expenses are to be paid by the employee, and reimbursed to him on the above basis by the insurance carrier.
—	Caution; Before starting any course of treatment in excess of $200, it is recommended that employees have their dentist prepare a “Treatment Plan”, a written report describing the recommended procedure, treatment, costs, etc. The Treatment Plan can be submitted to the insurer in advance and the employee will know the expenses covered before work begins.
92
GROUP EXTENDED HEALTH BENEFITS
— Subject to specified maximums and a yearly deductible this plan pays the difference between the actual cost and coverage by Saskatchewan Hospital Services Plan for the following expenses to employees and their dependents:
Private Duty Nursing In Hospital Drugs
Semi-Private Room Accomodations Ambulance and Air Ambulance Expenses Prosthetic devices
Wheelchairs, Hospital-type Beds, and Respiratory Devices Out of Canada Emergency Hospital and Medical Care Expenses
OPTICAL PLAN
—	Employees, their spouses, and dependent children under 19 years of age are covered for 80% of the cost of one pair of eyeglass frames and lenses (or contact lenses) per participant during any 24 consecutive months (12 consecutive months for persons under 18 years of age). Effective March 2, 1990 the maximum benefit will be $100.
—	Excluded are: duplicate glasses, certain plastic lenses, safety goggles, sunglasses, most tinted glasses, anti-reflective coatings, replacement of lost or stolen or broken glass or frames.
93
OPTIONAL INSURANCE
Employees may apply for either the optional group term life insurance and/or the voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance which is currently available. The effective date of such coverage will be as per the conditions specified in each of the plans. Premiums are paid by the employee through payroll deduction. In case of layoff or other absence without pay, premiums must be prepaid to maintain coverage.
GENERAL
The Company will continue certain benefit coverage for permanent employees, who are laid off due to inventory corrections or permanent workforce reductions, for a period of three (3) months from the date of lay-off. The Company-paid benefits that will be maintained are Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Dental and Group Extended Health Plans (including Optical).
Employees recalled from the recall list for temporary work will be covered by the Benefit Program, while at work (except for Short or Long Term Disabi lity).
Permanent and Temporary new hires are covered from the first day of active employment for Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment; upon completion of the probationary period they become eligible under Dental, Group Health, Optical and Short and Long Term Disability.
94
SUBJECT	INDEX ARTICLE	PAGE
Apprenticeship Arbitration ....
Day...........
Departments .. Discharge .. ..
Callout.......
COLA..........
Clothing & Boot Allowance , .. C.W.S. (Effective Jan. 11, 1981)
Dues .......................
Filling aTemporary Vacancy .. Filling a Permanent Vacancy .
Grievance • Delinilion......
Grievance - Stages..........
Immediate Family............
Job Posting.................
Jury & Witness Duty.........
Layoffs ....................
Leave of Absence............
Lines of Progression ...
Lunch Breaks...........
Management Rights .. ..
Meals-Overtime ........
Overtime ..............
Probationary Employees
Public Holidays........
Qualifying on the Job . . .
Recall ................
Safety Tours...........
Schedules - Change . . . . Schedules - Posted .. . . Seniority Delinition . . .
Seniority - Lists......
Seniority - Loss Of....
Stewards ..............
Temporary Vacancy ...
Time Off With Pay......
Tools .................
I raining.......................
Transfer.........................
Transfer our of Bargaining Unit ,
Vacations .......................
Wage Differentials...............
Appendix B & C
6.01
14.02	to 14.06
6.15
5.01
14.09
22.03
21.04
19.00 16.02
8.12 8 13
4.01
4.05 11.06
8.17
11.07 8.04
11.01
Exhibits A - G
14.11
1.02
14.12
14.04
9.01
13.01	• 13.08
8.14
8.06
15.02
14.07 14.14
8.02
8.16
8.03
4.03
8.09 11,06
21.01	to 21.03
8.10	& 8.11
8.07	& 8.08
8.15
12.01	to 12.10
22.01	to 22.04
76-80
14
48 - 49
29 12 49 63 62
57 • 61 56
27
28 6 8 36
30 39 20 35
68 75
51 3
52
48 33
46 - 48 28
20 24 53 - 55
49 52 19 29 19 7
26 - 27 36 39 62 27
25 - 26 29
42 • 43
63 64
95