TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article
Page No.
I
It
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
XVI
XVII
XVIII
XIX
XX
XXI XXI!
XXIII
XXIV
XXV
Recogriition...........................................
Discrimination.........................................
No Union Activity on Company Time......................
Grievance Procedure....................................
Discharge or Suspension................................
Arbitration............................................
Union Negotiating Committee............................
Seniority and Job Posting..............................
Probationary Employees.................................
Temporary Employees....................................
Leave of Absence.......................................
Vacations With Pay.....................................
Public Holidays........................................
Hours of Work and Overtime.............................
Safety and Occupational Health.........................
Union Security.........................................
Handicapped Employees..................................
Bulletin Boards........................................
Co-operative Wage Study................................
Supervisors Working....................................
Tools..................................................
Wage Differentials.....................................
Notice.................................................
Copies of Agreement....................................
Terms of the Agreement.................................
Appendix "A" - Standard Hourly Wage Scale..............
Exhibit "A" - Lines of Progression - Mine Operating....
Exhibit"B" - Lines of Progression - Mine Maintenance...
Exhibitl'C"- Lines of Progression - Plant Operating....
Exhibit1!)" - Lines of Progression - Plant Maintenance.
Exhibit'!"- Lines of Progression- PlantLoadout.........
Exhibit"F" - Lines of Progression-Warehouse Dept.......
Exhibit"G" - Lines of Progression - Safety Dept........
Appendix "B" -Apprenticeship Program...................
Appendix "C" - Schedule of Apprenticeship Training.....
Appendix "D" - Non Trade Training Requirements.........
Appendix "E" - Compressed Work Week....................
Benefit Summary........................................
Memorandums and Letters of Agreements..................
Subject Index..........................................
3
3
4 4 7 7 9 9 16 17 16 21
23
24
27
28 29 29 29 31
31
32 32 34
34
35
36-37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44-45
46
47-48
49
52
57-61
62
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into the 24" day of January, 2002 by and between:
Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc., Allan Division, operators of PCS Potash Allan Division, hereinafter called the "Company"
Party of the first part
and,
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, CLC, for itself and on behalf of its Local 7689, hereinaftercalled the "Union"
Party of the second part,
In the spirit of co-operation and to provide for an efficient operation the parties hereby mutually agree as follows:
NOTE: For purposes of this Agreement, any reference to employees as "he" or "his", etc. shall mean all employees, male and female, in the Bargaining Unit.
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative for the purpose of bargaining collectively with regard to rates of pay, hours of work, working conditions and other conditions of employment, for all employeesemployed byPCS Inc., Allan Division near Allan, Saskatchewan, except supervisors; foremen; superintendents; managers; office and clerical staff; the mine, process, laboratory and instrumentation technician; nurse; first aid attendant; plant security; and a person having and regularly acting on behalf of management in a confidential capacity with the intent that this Agreement will promote an efficient and effective operation and a procedure for the prompt settlement of grievances.
1.02	The Company reserves all rights and prerogatives unless clearly and explicitly granted to the Union by this Agreement. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Union understands and agrees that the Company has the exclusive and undisputed right and power to operate and manage the business in all respects, including, but not limited to, the right
a)	to maintain order, discipline and efficiency, to determinejob content and the assignment of work, to make, alter and amend rules of conduct and procedures for employees;
b)	To hire, discharge, classify, transfer, promote, demote, lay-off, recall, suspend or discipline employees, provided, however, that if the employee believes that he has been discharged or disciplined without just cause or that any other exercise of the foregoing rights is in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement, he may have the matter dealt with under the Grievance Procedure; and,
c)	generallyto managethe business, locate, extend, curtail, cease operations and to determine the numbersand classifications of employees required for any or all operations, the kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used and the schedule of production.
d)	The Company shall not contract out work normally performed by employees in its workforce, if, as a direct result of such contracting out, employees currently in the workforce are laid off or demoted.
Except in the case of an emergency, the Company will notify the Union of the nature of work to be done on site by contractors, the number of people to be employed and the anticipated duration of the job.
e)	The Company agrees that this clause will not be used in a unfair, inequitable or unjust manner against any employee.
ARTICLE II - DISCRIMINATION
2.01	No employee of the Company shall be intimidated or discriminated against by either party because of membership or non-membership in any union, or because of their race, religion, religious creed, colour, sex, political belief, nationality, ancestry, place of origin, or age (with the exception of an employee's normal retirement date). In addition, consistent with the provision of the Human Rights Act, 1993, the parties agree that there shall be no discrimination by either the Company or the Union by reason of family status, sexual orientation, marital status or disability.
2.02	Affirmative Action
The parties of this Agreement, The Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc., Allan Division and the United Steelworkers of America, C.L.C., Local 7689, agree there is a need to redress the under representation in the work force of persons of native ancestry, women and the disabled.
To this end, the parties agree to develop and implement measures to redress such imbalances, such measures to be worked out within the overall corporate policy.
ARTICLE III - NO UNION ACTIVITY ON COMPANY TIME
3.01	Except as provided in this Agreement, there shall be no Union activity on the Company's time or property.
3.02	The Union Presidentor his representative may spend one-half hourwith new Bargaining Unit employees for the purpose of orientation, at a time scheduled by the Company.
3.03	The President of the Local, or his designate, will be granted up to eight hours leave of absence with pay in each week at his regular straight time hourly rate, to administer local union business on site, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. weekdays. Such activity will not interfere with employees on duty in the performance of their work, and if the union representative desires to talk with an employee while on duty, he must receive permission from the employee's supervisor. Such time will not be accumulative.
The Union President may use this leave for off-site local union business, if prior permission is obtained from the General Manager or his designate.
ARTICLE IV - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
4.01	"Grievance" means any difference between the Company and any employee or employees
bound by this Agreement, or between the Company and the Union, concerning an alleged violation of the interpretation, application or operation of the terms of this Agreement. The party submitting a grievance will ensure that it clearly states the issue or issues involved. All grievances shall be finally and conclusively settled in the manner set out in this Article.
4.02	In all cases while grievances are being investigated the employee(s) and all other scheduled employees, except an employee serving a disciplinary suspension or on layoff, must continue to work. Where an empioyee(s) has or have been discharged by the Company, he or they shall not remain in the employ of the Company while his or their case is being investigated and settled.
4.03	"Shop Stewards" means employees of the Company who have been authorized by the Union to deal with grievances. A Shop Steward shall not leave his duties until proper relief has been provided by his supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. Under no circumstances shall a Shop Steward take any action, (except individual rights as provided for by Provincial legislation), or issue any instructions which will interfere with the production or with the management, operation or direction of the Company's plants, operations, or working force. The jurisdiction of a Shop Steward to act as such shall normally be confined to the particular section or area of the operation in which he is employed during his regularly scheduled working hours.
The number of Shop Stewards shall not exceed thirty (30) employees. If it is necessary for any Steward to take time off during working hours to investigate or attempt to settle a grievance, he shall not suffer loss of pay for time spent in the performance of these duties during his regularly scheduled working hours.
4.04	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of Stewards, Grievance Committee members and Executive Officers and the Company shall not be required to recognize any Steward, Grievance Committee member, or Executive Officer until such notice is received. A Shop Steward will not be recognized until the day after the Company has received official notice from the Union that he is a Shop Steward.
4.05	Because of the desirability of a continuity of activities, the parties agree that when possible the negotiation of grievances shall be conducted immediately after the start, or concurrent with the end of the shift. A copy of the Grievance Reply at each Stage will be sent to the Union's Grievance Chairman.
Should a grievance arise, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the grievance in the following manner:
a)	Stage 1 -The Employee(s) concerned, with or without their Shop Steward in attendance may, provided it is done within fifteen (15) days after the occurrence of the grievance, present his alleged grievance, in writing, to his immediate supervisor.
For matters relating to an employee's payroll cheque, the occurrence of a grievance shall be the day the employee receives his payroll cheque.
The immediate supervisor shall advise the employee of his decision on the grievance within three (3) days.
b)	Stage 2 - Failing a satisfactory Settlement of the grievance at Stage 1, the employee(s) in person, with their Shop Steward in attendance, may, within three (3) days after the decision of the immediate supervisor at Stage 1 has been or should have been given, submit the grievance in writing to the department superintendent, or his delegate. The grievance shall state the exact nature of the grievance, the act or acts complained of, and when they occurred, the identity of the employee or employees who claim to be aggrieved, the section or sections of the agreement that the employee or employees claim the Company has violated, and the remedy he or they seek. The Department Superintendent or his delegate shall advise the employee of his decision in writing within three (3) days from the time the grievance was submitted to him.
c)	Stage 3 - Failing satisfactory settlement of the grievance at Stage 2, the Grievance Committee may submit the grievance, which shall be stated in writing to the General Manager or his delegate within five (5Jdays after the decision of the department superintendent has been or should have been given.
The General Manager, or his delegate, shall hold a hearing within ten (10) days from the date upon which he received written notice of the grievance.
The grievance shall be presented at Stage 3 by not more than three (3) members of the grievance committee, the International Staff Representative and a shop steward. The General Manager may, if he so desires, be accompanied by other officials of the Company. The empioyee(s) alleging the grievance shall be present at the hearing if the Company or Union so request.
The General Manager shall give his decision in writing within ten (10) days from the date of such hearing.
d)	Stage4 - Failing satisfactory settlement at Stage 3, the Union may submit the grievance to arbitration within ten (10) days from the date of the decision of the General Manager or his delegate, was given or should have been given.
The Union shall give its decision in writing within ten (10) days to the General Manager or his designate.
4.06	If the grievance is not submitted within the time limits provided in this Article, then the grievance is deemed to be abandoned and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end.
4.07	A grieving employee's scheduled days off, vacation leave, inventory correction lay-offs and Public Holidays as designated in Article XIII, shall not be counted in determining the time limits within which any action is to betaken in each of the first three stages of the Grievance Procedure.
4.08	The time limits in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties in writing,
4.09	The procedure for settling of disputes set out inthis Article shall be strictly adhered to, except where the Company and the Union agree to by-pass Stages 1 and 2.
4.10	Inthe event that two (2) or more employees have a grievance which are sufficiently common in nature that they may be conveniently dealtwith together, it may be submitted at Stage 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
A grievance involvingtwo (2) or more employees shall be presented by not more than two (2) employees of those in the group directly concerned.
In the event that two (2) or more grievances which are sufficiently common in nature are processed to third (3rd) stage, the Company may hear them together. The grievances shall be represented by not more than two (2) employees.
4.11	The Company shall have the right to submit any grievance in writing to the Union Grievance Committee at Stage 3. The Union Grievance Committee shall give the decision to the Company in writing, within ten (10) days from the date of such hearing. Failing a satisfactory settlement, the Company may submit the grievance to arbitrationwithin ten (10) days from the decision of the Union Grievance Committee was given or should have been given at Stage 3.
4.12	Any grievance arising directly between the Union and the Company shall be submitted in writing at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
4.13	The service record of an employee shall be available for inspection in the Industrial Relations Department, by appointment during office hours, by the employee or his delegate, provided the employee has given written permission for his delegate's inspection and they have obtained permission from their immediate supervisors to leave the job.
ARTICLE V - DISCHARGE OR SUSPENSION
5.01	a) When an employee is discharged or suspended for just cause, the employee and the union shall be notified in writing of the discharge or suspension. A copy of any written warning, which is to be placed in an employee's personnel file, shall be given to the employee.
b)	If a permanent employee is demoted, suspended without pay, or discharged, for disciplinary reasons, he will be entitled to a hearing with Management and two Union representatives, i.e., the employee's shop steward and the grievance committee chairman or his delegate.
As much as is practical, such hearing will be held prior to the disciplinary action being taken except in the case of gross misconduct and/or a case requiring immediate action. Such hearing will be without prejudice to any subsequent grievance or arbitration procedures.
5.02	If an employee claims that his discharge or suspension is without just cause, then he may submit a grievance within five (5) days after the notice of discharge or suspension has been given. The grievance shall be presented at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure. The five (5) days exclude the griever's scheduled days off that would have occurred if he had not been discharged or suspended.
5.03	The General Manager, or his delegate, shall give his decision to the Union and to the employee within five (5) calendar days from the date of the hearing. The General Manager's or his delegate's decision may confirm the discharge, or suspend the employee with or without pay for a specified period, or reinstate the employee without loss of basic regular earnings.
5.04	If no grievance with respectto the discharge is initiated by the employee involvedwithin five (5) days of the date the employee is notified of his dischame, the matter shall be considered closed and not subjectto further review. Days are as defined in 5,02.
ARTICLE VI -ARBITRATION
6.01	If a grievance is submitted to arbitration in accordance with Article IV, Grievance Procedure, within ten (10) days of receipt of such written notice, the Company and the Union shall select an Arbitrator as outlined below and notify him of his selection.
6.02	Each grievance submitted to arbitration shall be heard separately. A grievance dealing with the suspension or discharge of the Chairman of the Grievance Committee, the OHC CoChairman or the President of the Local may, at the Union's request, be brought forward, ahead of others, to arbitration on a priority basis.
6.03	The Arbitrator to hear and decide each grievance requiring arbitration shall be selected from the following panel:
1)	D. Ish
2)	R. Pelton
3)	K, Norman
6.04	The Arbitrator to hear each case shall be selected by rotation in the order listed in 6.03 above. If the Arbitrator so selected is unable to serve, the Arbitrator next on the list of names shall be selected.
6.05	No member of the panel of arbitrators can be removed except by mutual consent of the Company and the Union in writing.
6.06	If a member of the panel of arbitrators is permanently unable to serve for any reason, the Company and the Union may mutually agree upon a replacement.
6.07	The arbitrator shall be presentedwith the written grievances submitted and the Company's replies. The arbitrator's award shall be confined to such issue(s).
6.08	The expenses of the Arbitrator and a mutually agreed to place of hearing shall be borne in equal shares by the Union and the Company.
6.09	Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling such witnesses
6.10	The award cf the Arbitrator, in respect of an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, shall be final and binding on all parties concerned, but in no event shall the Arbitrator have the power to alter, modify or amend this Agreement in any respect. However, the Arbitrator may, before the close of the hearing of a discharge grievance, request that the Company and the Union make a further attempt to settle such grievance.
6.11	The Arbitrator shall be requestedto give his award inwriting to each of the parties within thirty (30) days after the close of the hearing and the presentation of all materials to the Arbitrator.
6.12	The Company and the Union shall each select a person to sit with the Arbitrator during the hearing. Such persons shall be available, jointly but not individually, to the Arbitrator during and after the hearing to advise him on points arising out of the evidence but shall take no part in making or publishing of the award of the Arbitrator. The Arbitrator shall be entitled to accept or reject any advice he may have received from such persons, but he shall not in his award make reference to such persons or to any advice he may have received, or to his acceptance or rejection thereof.
6.13	The Arbitrator shall be confined to hearing only that evidence which was presented at Stage 3 cf the Grievance Procedure. This does not limit the right of the Arbitrator to give considerationto evidence which may come to light after the third stage hearing.
6.14	If an Arbitrator decides that an employee has been discharged or suspended without just cause, the Company will reinstate the employee without loss of seniority and basic regular earnings less any amounts earned, or will put into effect any lesser settlement determined by the Arbitrator.
ARTICLE VII -UNION NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
7.01	The Company will pay a member cf the Union Negotiating Committee (maximum five (5) members) at his base rate for eight (SJhours per day for each day the Committee member meets with the Company to negotiate the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Such employee(s) will be placed on day shift for the duration of negotiations. If a work stoppage or restriction is in effect, payment will not apply. Such hours will not be considered as time worked for the calculation of overtime payment.
ARTICLE VIII - SENIORITY AND JOB POSTING
8,01	a) The Company and the Union recognize that job opportunity and job security should increase with an employee's length cf service with the Company. In all cases of promotion, demotion, training, layoff or recall, the seniorqualified employee shall be entitled to preference except where otherwise provided herein.
The Company shall determine the number of employees in each job classification and if a vacancy in a job classification is to be filled or to be left vacant.
When the services of individuals with special abilities or training are required and are not available within the Bargaining Unit, the Company may employ such individuals from outside the Bargaining Unit.
"Qualified" shall mean the physical and mental fitness and the ability to meet the regular requirements of the job after a reasonable trial or training period. In
maintenance job classifications qualified also means the ability to satisfactorily perform at the classification level.
e)	Inthe event of a demotion caused by layoff, an employee with more than three years service in the job he was demoted from will retain his rate of pay on a "red circled" basis for a period of one year. No wage increases shall apply to the "red circled rate.
If a demoted employee does not qualify for maintenance of rate because of his service, as above, he will qualify for the rate of any lowerjob he spent the most time at during the previous three (3) years.
Apprentices who are demoted will qualify for the rate for the job they held for three (3) years prior to entering the apprenticeship program. The maintenance of rate, as per this paragraph, will be for one year on a "red circled basis as above.
An employee who is laid off on a workforce reduction who meets the above qualifying criteria and is recalled will also be paid on a "red circled" basis from the time of recall to a maximum of one year from the original date of lay-off.
8.02	a)	"Seniority" as used in this Agreement shall be defined as:
General (or Company) - the length of continuous service with the Company since the employee's date of hiring, except as expressly provided herein.
Departmental -the total length of time an employee with continuous service has spent in a department except where it has been adjusted as per Article 8.08(b).
b)	If two or more employees begin work for the Company on the same date, they shall
be rated on the General Seniority list in alphabetical order based on their surname as of the date of hire.
8.03	An employee's seniority will be lost when;
a)	he voluntarily quits, or
b)	he is discharged, or
c)	heis laid offfor a period equal to hisseniority or twenty-four (24) months whichever is lesser, (minimum of twelve (12) months), or
d)	he fails to return to work within the required time after lay-off, unless he gives a reason satisfactory to the Company for such failure to return to work, or
e)	he fails to return to work immediately upon completion of an approved leave of absence, unless he gives a reason satisfactory to the Company for such failure to return to work, or
f)	he is absent without leave for three (3) consecutiveworking days. His absence will be considered as a voluntary separation or "quit without notice".
8.04	Ii any reduction of workforce or recalling after lay-off (except lay-offs cf six (6) days or less) the Company shall consider the following two (2) factors in determiningwhich employee or employees shall be laid off or recalled:
a)	The Company Seniority of each employee concerned;
b)	The qualifications of each employee concerned to meet the normal requirements of the job.
A reduction in the number of employees in a classification in a Department is deemed to be a workforce reduction and the process outlined in 8.05 will be followed for employees affected by such a reduction.
8,05	a)	In any reduction of the workforce, for more than six days, employees with the least
Company seniority will be laid off, exceptthatthe Company will notbe requiredto retain an employee because of his Company seniority unless such employee possesses the necessary qualifications to perform, and is willing to perform the work of the employee who would otherwise be laid off in accordance with this provision.
An employee who was assigned to his job in accordance with the provisions of Article 17.01 shall not be subject to the bumping provisions in this Article except where the employee does not have enough Company Seniority to remain on site. This protection only applies if the employee's job still remains following the reduction.
b)	Within each Departmentaffected by the reduction, the Company will determine the specific positions required, and employees will be reclassified to available positions within their Department on the basis of qualifications and Company seniority.
c)	If there are vacancies available in departments due to the reduction of employees by Company seniority, employees who have been unable to remain in their respective Departments will be assigned to fill such other vacancies on the basis of qualifications and Company seniority, except that a journeyman may displace junior employees in the same trade in another department providingthey are qualified and meet the full requirements of the position.
d)	The reasonable trial ortraining period as referred to in Article 8.01 (d), does not apply in the case of layoff or recall. However, a senioremployeewill beentitledto a 3-day familiarization period in one of the existing vacancies. The Company may refuse to grant the 3-day familiarization period in one of the existing vacancies. It is understood the Company may refuseto grant the 3-day familiarization period if it can demonstrate that the employee could not meet the requirements of the job even if a 3-day familiarization period were granted. An employee who fails to meet the requirements of the job during the 3-day familiarization period in a job above Job Class 8 will be eligible to displace a junior employee in a position at or below Job Class 8 (excluding Apprenticeship jobs) or Wagonmaster, Dispatch and Chute Operators, on the basis of Company seniority.
e)	Subject to Article 17,01, and the paragraph below, when it is determined that a subsequent permanent vacancy is to be filled, qualified employees who have been displaced from the job in question, as a result of a workforce reduction, within the twenty-four (24) months prior to the date the vacancy is being filled and who are working on site on a permanent basis, will be offered the vacancy on the basis of Company Seniority.
If the vacancy is in a Line of Progression, the most senior employee who has been displaced from the job in question, or a higherjob in the Line, will be offered the vacancy. Ifthe employee declines the vacancy, he will lose any options provided by
this clause and the Company will not be required to offer him any future vacancies in that job classification. If the employee was being paid at a red-circled rate, that will cease at the time of refusal.
If the vacancy cannot be filled as above, the provisions of Articles 8.13 and 8,18 will be followed and, where applicable, Article 8.05 (f).
f)	Employees will be recalled from layoff on the basis of their Company seniority and ability to meet the qualifications of the job for which they are being recalled.
g)	Except forjobs of a temporary or emergency nature, an employee being recalled will be sent notice by registered mail to the employee's last known address. It is the responsibility of any employee to notify the Company of any change in postal address. The employee shall notify the Company of his intention to return to work within five (5) days and shall return to work within ten (10) days from the mailing of such notice, or on the specified date of recall, if later. The employee shall lose the right of such recall on the failure to comply with these conditions.
h)	An employee may be granted an additional ten (10) days to return to work for reasons satisfactory to the Company. If he fails to return at the end of the ten (10) day extension, the employee shall lose the right of recall. This period will be extended if disability prevents immediate return if the employee notifies the Company of the disability within the ten day period.
i)	However, an employee recalledto a temporary assignment may refuse recall without loss of subsequent recall rights.
j)	An employee who returns to work following recall and is subsequently laid off will again qualify underthe provisions of Article 8.03 (c).
k)	If at the time of a layoff the Company gives an employee a definite date in writing upon which he is to retumto work, further notice of recall will not be required and the employee shall lose the right of such recall, subject to Article 8.05 (g), if he fails to return on the date specified.
l)	An employee may elect layoff in lieu of a demotion to a lower job classification without loss of subsequent recall rights.
m)	An employee with five or more years of Company Seniority who is laid off as a result of technological change, as defined by the Trade Union Act, 1994, shall receive a severance payment of one week's pay at the employee's base wage at the time of lay-off, for each complete year of accumulated service prior to this lay-off, up to a maximum of thirteen (13) week's pay. In the event an employee who received a severance payment as provided above, is recalledwithin the period covered by the payment (maximum of thirteen (13)weeks), he shall repay a prorata amount of the severance payment based upon the date of recall. Theparties agree thatfor the purpose of this agreement, the term 'Significant numbers "as referred to in the
Trade Union Act shall mean one or more persons, and as suck any provisions outlined in this agreement or in the Trade Union Act shall apply should a technological change affect one or more employees
An employee who is demoted due to a technological change will maintain his base rate for a maximum of eighteen calendar monthsfrom the original date of
demotionproviding he has threeyears of service with the Company. An employee who is maintaining his rate in accordance with this provision shall be required to accept any higherpaying permanent vacancy in the department he was demoted fromproviding he has the seniority and qualifications to fill that classification. Failure to do so will result in the loss of these rate maintenanceprovisions.
8.06	Employees who have been laid off for more than fourteen days will be entitled to subsequent layoff notice or pay in lieu of notice, which shall not be less than:
-	one week's notice if the employee's period of employment is less than three years;
-	three week's notice if the employee's period of employment is three years or more but less than five years;
-	five weeks' notice if the employee's period of employment is five or more years.
The above provisions do not apply if the period of layoff is for six days or less, or if an employee is recalled for a specified, limited period of work.
The Company willpay the employee's base ratefor thatportion of the noticeperiod in respect of which notice was not given.
8.07	TRANSFERS: If the transfer of an employee from one department to another is required by the Company for the efficient conduct of operations, the employee, upon completion of three (3) months from the date of his transfer, shall elect:
a)	to remain in the department to which he was transferred and his departmental seniority shall be from the date of his transfer, or
b)	to return to the department from which he was transferred, and his departmental seniority shall include the departmental seniority acquired in the department to which he was transferred.
The Company will place such employee in a job classification equal to, or higher than, the job from which he was originally transferred.
8.08	a) If the transfer of an employee from one department to another is required by the
Company because of considerations of health, his departmental seniority in such other department shall be deemed to be equal to his departmental seniority in the department from which he was transferred.
b) An employee who is displaced from one Department to another on a workforce reduction and is unable to return to his original Departmentas per Article 8.05(e) will, if he chooses to do so, have his Department Seniority adjusted to include his DepartmentalSeniorityfrom his original Department. The adjustmentwill be made 24 monthsfollowingthe date he was placed in the new Department and he will no longer have seniority in the original Department.
8.09 TEMPORARY VACANCIES: A temporary vacancy is one which lasts forty-eight (48) days or less. This can be extended by mutual agreement.
a)	A temporary vacancy occurs when an employee is absent from work in the case of sickness, vacation, leave of absence, or a vacancy caused by a successful bid of an incumbent prior to the vacancy being filled permanently.
b)	When a temporary employee is hired to fill a temporary vacancy, as defined in 8.09 a), the Unionwill be advised of:
1.	The Classification being filled
2.	The expected date of hire
3.	The date of termination of the temporary employee
8.10	TRAINING: To the extent consistent with efficient operations, a senior lower bracket employee will be given the opportunity to train for the higher bracketjob next available to him in his Line of Progression, provided however that in determining the qualifications of successful bidders, as provided in this Article, such training will not be given preference in determining qualifications.
8.11	Ifthesenioremployeeinajob classification or assignment refuses to avail himself of training opportunities or refuses a promotion, the Company may assign a less senior employee in that job classification or assignment to another shift or assignment consistent with his departmental seniority and qualifications if required to allow for promotional opportunities for other employees. "Promotion opportunities" as used above also refers to the additional skill assignments in the Plant Department.
8.12	FILLING A TEMPORARY VACANCY: A temporary vacancy may be filled by an employee who is regularly classified in the job classification in which the vacancy exists or by the temporary advancement of an employee on the same shift based on departmental seniority and qualifications. It is understoodthat temporary vacancies, which occur during the course of a shift, may not always be filled by the senior qualified employee.
When filling temporary vacancies, the Company will determine in a fair and equitable manner the qualifications of an employee to fill the particular vacancy, which exists.
8.13	Filling a Permanent Vacancy - a permanent vacancy shall be filled in accordance with the following sequence:
a)	firstly in accordance with the Lines of Progressionas contained in the Exhibits (a) to (g) of this Agreement based on departmental seniority.
b)	secondly, general seniority subject to the job bidding provisions of Article 8.18,,
If qualified employees are not available within the Bargaining Unit the permanent vacancy may be filled from outside the Bargaining Unit.
An employee awarded a permanent vacancy shall be entitled to a reasonable training period as designated in notes to Appendix C and D and lines of progression.
8.14	Qualifying on the Job: Ifwithin thirty (30) working days an employee working in a newjob classification or assignment voluntarily disqualifies himself he shall return to his last classification and assignment if the job assignment still exists.
After thirty (30) days worked, if an employee fails to satisfactorily perform the duties in a job classification or assignment, he shall be returned to his last classification and assignment
if the job assignment still exists, and he will not be considered for the job assignment he was disqualified from for a period of up to six months.
8.15	TRANSFER OUT OF THE BARGAINING UNIT
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent the transfer of an employee who is a member of the bargaining unit to a position not included in the bargaining unit, or vice versa. In the case where such a transfer is temporary in nature (not exceeding six (6) months in duration), the employee shall continue to accumulate both company and departmental seniority. In the event the transfer is for more than six (6) months, the employee shall lose all retained seniority. The six (6) month limit may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties, in writing.
8.16	DEPARTMENTS AND SENIORITY LISTS:
For the purpose of applying the provisions of this Agreement, the departments shall be as follows:
a)	Mine Operating Department
b)	Mine Maintenance Department
c)	Plant Operating Department
d)	Plant Maintenance Department
e)	Plant Loadout Department
f)	Warehouse Department
g)	Safety Department
8.17	The Company will prepare lists of the employees showing the respective dates of their last entry into the Company's service and into their present department. Such lists shall be posted and remain for a period of three (3) weeks for the express purpose that any employee may make a complaint as to the correctness of the date of his last entry into the Company's service or into his present department. At the end of this three (3) week period, the lists, including any corrections that have been made, shall become final, f such corrections are accurate. Seniority lists shall be revised and posted quarterly. A copy of the corrected list will be supplied to the Union.
8.18	Job Posting: All permanentjob vacancies in subsection (a), (b), (c), (d) and (f) will be posted for Company wide bidding, subject to Article 8,13. Sub-section (e), Apprenticeship job vacancies will be posted for Company wide bidding.
a)	Newjob assignments not specified in the Agreement.
b)	Job assignments above bid leveljobs which the Company has been unable to fill in a line of progression.
c)	Bid level job assignments as designated in Exhibits'TV1 to "G" of the Agreement.
d)	Permanent day shift maintenancejob assignments.
e)	An apprenticeshipjob vacancy.
f)	All permanent day shift vacancies that cannot be filled from the Line of Progression, including those below bid level, will be posted.
Notice of the vacancies as defined above shall be posted for six (6) days and shall show job classification, job assignment, rate of pay, department, shift work or daywork, and the crew where the initial vacancy exists.
An employee who desiresto be considered for the posted vacancy shall submit a written bid on a bid form supplied by the Company, within the posting period which closes at the end of the day shift on the sixth (6th) day of posting. A shop steward may tile a bid on behalf of an absent employee.
Job bids submitted within the six (6) day posting period shall be considered in filling the vacancy. The vacancy shall be awardedto the senior qualified applicant. The name cf the successful bidderwill be posted within five (5) days following the end of the bidding period.
The Company will transfer the successful bidderwithinthirty (30) days following the posting of the successful bidder's name if a qualified employee is available to fill the vacancy of the successful bidder. In the event two or more successful bidders to the same job posting cannot be transferred simultaneously, the employee with the most General Seniority will begin accumulating Department Seniority in the new department when any successful bidder on that job is transferred. If the Company is unable to make such transfer within thirty (30) calendar days after posting the name of the successful bidder, then such bidderwill receive the rateforthe newjob starting at the thirty-first (31st) day, providedthe new rate of pay is higher than the bidder's present rate and the bidder will begin accumulating the new Departmental Seniority on the thirty-first (31st) day.
An employee who bid and was awarded the job may not bid on another vacancy within six (6) months of posting of his name as a successful bidder unless the new vacancy posted is for an apprenticeship or maintenance progression vacancy and his prior successful bid was on a non-apprenticeship or non-maintenance progression vacancy.
The permanent vacancy notices as provided for above will be posted on a bulletin board provided for that purpose in the Dry area. Bids on these permanent vacancies shall be deposited in the Bid Box located in the Dry area.
Vacancies injob classifications that requirejob posting, will be posted prior to the hiring of personnel from outside the Bargaining Unit.
Any vacancies injob classifications that requirejob posting, that are posted, but not filled by bids or outside hiring within three (3) months, will be reposted if the Company still wishes to fill the vacancy.
8.19	If any employee who has been selected to fill a vacancy posted in accordance with the provisions of this Article applies for and is selected to fill another vacancy before he takes up the first position then the first vacancy need not be posted again but may be filled in accordance with this Article from among the original applicants.
8.20 The provisions of this Article (8.20) will apply during normal operatingperiods. Except for the initial orientationperiod, thejunior tradesmen in a Department are required to be
on shift until they have enough Company seniority to get off shift. However, a more senior tradesman in the Department may elect to go on shift if a vacancy exists or through mutual exchange with the most senior tradesman on shift who desires to get off shift. Also, a senior tradesman on shift may elect once each year (January) to return to day shift
providing there still is ajunior tradesman on day shift In the event there is an inventory correction in January, the election may be made within one monthfollowing start-up.
Where an employee group chooses tofollow a rotational pattern it will be exemptfrom these provisions until such time as the rotation is discontinued.
ARTICLE IX - PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
9.01	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, an employee, including a temporary employee shall be consideredto be a probationary employee and he shall not have seniority until he has actually worked four hundred and eighty (480) hours, within a period of twelve (12) consecutive months, at which time he shall become entitled to company and departmental seniority dating from his last hiring with the Company.
9.02	A probationary employee may take advantage of the Grievance Procedure except in the case where his employment has been terminated by way of discharge or otherwise.
ARTICLE X -TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
10.01	A temporary employee is one who has been hiredfor work of a temporary nature, or because of a temporary increase in production schedules. It shall be specifically stated and acknowledged at the time of hiring that the individual is a temporary employee.
10.02	A temporary employee will become entitled to seniority on completion of his probationary period but he may not use his seniority to displace another employee so long as he is classified as a temporary employee. A temporary employee will be given full consideration for regular employment should a vacancy occur. Temporary employees shall be enrolled in the Company's benefit plans when eligible.
10.03	If and when a temporary employee becomes a regular employee he shall, if he has completed his probationary period, become entitled to company seniority dating from his last hiring by the Company and to departmental seniority dating from his last entry into the service in his department.
ARTICLE XI - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
11.01	An employee will be granted a leave of absence without pay for personal reasons for up to fourteen (14) days, if
a)	The employee requests in writing from the Company one (1) week in advance of the absence.
b)	The leave is for good reason and does not interfere with the company's operations. (An extension shall be granted for good and sufficient reason.)
In an emergency situation, such leave may be granted upon a verbal request and such leave shall be confirmed by the employee in writing at a later date.
11.02	If an employee on leave of absence accepts employment, except as provided in this Article, it shall be deemed that he has voluntarily quit without notice his employment with the Company.
11.03	The company will grant an employee a leave of absence without pay up to one (1) year without loss of seniority to work in an official capacity for the Local or International Union. The employee and the Union must request the leave in writing. The leave may be extended for an additional one (1) year period upon written request of the Union. Only one (1) employee may be absent on such leave at any one time.
An employee who has been elected or appointed by the Union to attend a Union Convention or Conference shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for this purpose. The Union will request the leave of absence for the delegate or delegates in writing at least one (1) week in advance. Only five (5) employees (maximum two (2) employees from any one (1) department) at any one time will be granted such leave of absence.
The Union President, Vice-president, Recording Secretary, Treasurer, Financial Secretary will be granted time off, without pay to attend the regular evening monthly Union meetings of the executive and the membership. Wherever possible, two (2) weeks notice of required leaves will be given to the Company.
11.05	If the Company is given at least one (1) week's notice in writing, a leave of absence, without pay, will be granted to an employee acting as a steward, or officer of the Union, or Chairman of Standing Committees not to exceed eight (8) in number (maximum two (2) employees from any one (1) department) to attend one of the Union's labour seminars. Wherever possible, two (2) weeks notice of required leaves will be given to the Company.
1106 a.) There are special and unusual circumstances when an employee will be granted time off with pay. Under such special circumstances an employee may be granted sixty-four (64) hours off in any calendar year, except for the first year of employment. Approval of the employee's supervisor must be obtained prior to the absence to be eligible to receive time off with pay. In the event the employee cannot contact his immediate supervisor, approval may be obtained from another supervisor in the employee's work area. Si an emergency situation, exceptions to the prior notification requirements may be made for justifiable reasons.
Employees will be entitledfor days underthis section after one (1)year of employment. For the first year of employment days will be prorated to the end of the calendar year of eligibility. A new hire will receive an allotment of 2.5 hoursfor eachfull pay period remaining in th e calendaryear. The allotment will be availablyor use on th efirst work day following completion of theprobationayperiod
Temporary hires will be allotted 16 hours entitlement each quarter in which at least 30 days of continuous employment is provided. The allotment will be availablefollowing completion of thefirst month or on thefirst dayfollowing completion of the probationary period, which ever is later (maximum 64 hours per calendaryear). Thisformula will also befollowedfor these employees on subsequent recalls.
The following are the only reasons for granting time-off with pay:
1.	Illness of employee.
11.04 a)
b)
2.	Serious illness of a member of employee's immediate family that requires the employee's presence at home.
3.	Wedding of memberof immediate family, or employee's own wedding.
4.	Immediate family is defined as spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, child, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandchildren, and the grandparents of the employee or his/her spouse.
Common law spouse only, but not his/her family or dependents, will be considered as immediate family for the purposes of this Clause and shall mean a personwho although not legally married to an employee, hasco-habitated with that employee in the manner of husband and wife for a period of notlessthan six (6) months, and the employee has previously notified the Company in writing that such is his/her common law spouse.
5.	For childbirth of the employee's spouse.
6.	For medical and dental appointments not Company arranged.
If an employee is absent in excess of one shift and there is any dispute on the validity of the reason for a request for time off with pay, the employee shall provide a medical certificate or other such satisfactory proof of the reason for his absence.
Abuse of the provisions of this clause by an employee will result in the cancellation of any benefits conferred by this clause and is subject to discipline procedure.
At the end of each calendar year, the unused portion of sixty-four (64Jhourstime-off-with-pay will be accumulated from year to year. Upon reaching 120 hours, the excesstime will be converted to a dollar amount (ie. numberof excess hours X basic hourly rate, less any applicable deductions) and deposited into the Individual Wage Security Account of each Employee. The full text of the IndividualWage Security Account Agreement contains the exact terms and conditions and shall be the governing factor whenever a question arises.
Funds in the I.W.S. Account, including accrued interest, can be drawn out during layoffs of one week or more at the rate of $250.00 per week. When the Account balance exceeds $2 500.00, the excess can be taken out in cash in February of each year. Upontermination, all monies including accrued interest will be paid out. In addition to the above, the retained hours (maximum 120), multiplied by the employee's base rate (less appropriate deductions) will be paid out on death or retirement.
In the event cf Accident or Sickness of the employee, a minimum of twenty-four (24) accumulated unused hours will be utilized prior to the employee becoming eligible for the Company's Accident and Sickness program.
At the employee's option, additional unused hours may be utilized prior to the Accident and Sickness Program.
11.06	b.) An employee who is absent from work because of his attendance at the funeral of
a memberof his "immediate family" shall receive Funeral Leave of Absence benefits subject to the following conditions:
The benefits due such employee shall be computed on the basis of the number of regularly scheduled hours (8, 10, or 12 hours) per day at straight time base rate for hisjob classification as shown on the Company's records, excluding premium pay.
Funeral Leave benefits shall be paid for up to 3 days (8,10 or 12 hours) within the five-calendarday period immediately following the death of a member of the employee's "immediate family". The first day of the five-day period shall, at the employee's election, commence either on the day the death occurred or on the following day.
In the event an employee is required to be a pallbearer at the funeral of another Company employee, the Company will grant the necessary time off and he will not lose pay for the regular scheduled time missed to a maximum of one full shift (8.10 or 12 hours).
11.07	Jury and Witness Duty:
An employee who is preventedfrom working any of his scheduled hours of work by virtue of having been called to Jury Duty by the Crown or having been subpoenaed as a Witness in a court of Law in a case other than his own, shall receive the difference between the jury or witness fee received by him and the straight time rate of his classification, excluding all premiums, for the hours missed, not to exceed eighty (80) hours averaged over a two week period.
The employee shall notify the company at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the day that he is to report for Jury Duty or as a Witness, and shall provide proof of such service.
When an employee is excused from Jury or Witness duty on a scheduled work day, he shall notify his supervisor and report for work on his regular shift unless a conflict between Jury or Witness duty and scheduled working time prevents his reporting for work.
11.08	An employee who cannot report for work on his regularly scheduled shift shall notify his immediate supervisor prior to the start of his shift. If it is impossible to notify his immediate supervisor, he shall notify another supervisor in his work area to report his absence.
11.09	The employerwill grant an employee a period of sixty (60) days unpaid leave of absence subject to at least forty-eight (48) hours written notice of such requested leave to seek the nomination and/or run as a candidate in a Federal, Provincial or Municipal election for public office. On election, the leave will be extended for additional one (1) year periods upon written request of the employee. The employee is required to return to work within fourteen (14) days following the expiration of the term of office or another mutually agreed date.
11.10	Educational Leave
When an employee wishes to further the possibility of his advancement with the Company by taking a full-time course of training, the Company will, subject to the requirements and efficiency of the operations grant him an Educational Leave of Absence without pay provided that:
a)	The employee requests the leave in writing at least thirty (30) days in advance.
b)	The employee has at least three (3) years cf seniority.
c)	The leave is not for a period in excess cf ten months.
The numberof employees granted Educational Leaves cf Absence from any department at any one time may be restricted by the Company so as to not interfere unduly with the operations of that department.
If an employee fails to maintain regularattendance at the course of training for reasons other than proven illness, his leave will be cancelled and his employmerit may be terminated by the Company.
11.11	For all Leaves cf Absence under Articles 11.03,11,09, 11.10, the following conditions shall apply:
1.	All employees' privileges except the right to be reinstated, the right to benefits as indicated, and the right to the grievance procedure, shall be forfeited.
2.	After thirty days leave, should the employee wish to maintain benefit coverage under the following plans, the employee will be required to pay the full premium costs of such benefits, i.e. Life and Disability Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, Medical Services Insurance, etc.
3.	The Company may require the employee to have a medical examination before and after the Leave of Absence.
4.	The period of leave shall be included in determining the employee's seniority.
5.	The employee shall return to his previousjob on completion cf the leave provided he is entitled to such job by his seniority.
ARTICLE XII - VACATIONS WITH PAY
12.01	An employee with less than one (1) year of continuous employment as of June 30, or the appropriate pay period ending at this time as determined by the Company, shall be granted an annual vacation of ten (10) working hours per month of service, but not to exceed 120 working hours and vacation pay of six percent(6%), of his total earnings during the vacation period.
12.02	The cut-off for vacation pay purposes shall be the end of the last pay period ending before June 17"' of each year. Any excess of available vacation earnings as determined by multiplying entitled vacation hours times the employee's base rate as of the cut-off date will be paid out the first pay period of July each year. Employees with insufficientearnings, due to lay-off will have their vacation entitlement reduced per Article 12,12,
The balance of available vacation earnings will be paid in to applicable pay period as entitled vacation hours are taken. The time is taken at the employee's base rate at the vacation cutoff day but in no case more than the rate determined by the employee's available earnings divided by his entitled vacation hours.
VACATION	VACATION PAY
(based on gross earnings during entitlement year)
One or more years, but less than six years	120 working hours	6,0%
Six years, but less than seven years	128 working hours	6.4%
Seven years, but less than eight years	136 working hours	6.8%
Eight years, but less than nine years	144 working hours	7,2%
Nine years, but less than ten years	152 working hours	7,6%
Ten years but less	160 working hours	8.0%
than fifteen years
(The following provision is effective July 1, 1992)
Fifteen years or more	200 working hours	10.0%
12.03	Vacations will be granted in accordance with the Labour Standards Act.
12.04	All vacations must be taken at a time satisfactory to the Company and will be arranged, when possible, in accordance with the wishes of the employees.
A vacation maintenance shutdown may be designated by the Company provided it falls during the school summer vacation period and the Union will be notified of the Company's intention regarding such vacation maintenance shutdown not laterthan April 1, of that year.
In accordance with past practice, Vacation Maintenance Shutdown work in a Department will be allocated to employees in the Department, subject to Company Seniority and qualifications, and vacation requests received within the time frame specified in Article 12,05,
12.05	Company Seniority, subject to Article 12,04, will be given every possible consideration for vacation requests received priorto April 15th. It is understood that the requirements of the Vacation Maintenance Shutdown may take precedence over vacation requests.
12.06	Vacations are not cumulative and cannot be carried over to the following year.
12.07	Employees will not be paid in lieu of vacation.
12.08	Ifa Public Holiday as designated in Article XIII occurs during an employee's vacation period, he shall receive an additional day of vacation and shall be paid for the Public Holiday.
12.09	A vacation Bonus of Fifty (50) dollars will be paid to eligible employees who have accumulated five (5) full years of continuous service priorto the entitlementdate of July 1 each year. A vacation Bonus of One Hundred (100) dollars will be paid to eligible employees who have accumulated ten (10) years of continuous service prior to the entitlement date of July 1 each year.
12.10	a) Employeeswho were absent and on Workers’ Compensation, or those employees
with more than one (1) year's service who were absent and on Accident and Sickness benefitwho worked in a vacation year but were absentfor more than thirty (30) consecutive days during that vacation year will have their gross earnings for vacation adjusted to a maximum of fifty-two weeks on any one disability. The adjustment will be based on the number of working hours lost during that vacation year and the base rate, excluding differentials, which would have been applicable during the absence. The adjustment will not apply for any period in which the employee would have been laid off had he not been on such disability.
b)	Employeeswho are absent in attendance at Apprenticeship School in accordance with Appendix B1.02, will have their gross eamingsfor vacation adjusted based on the number of working hours lost during such absence and the base rate excluding all differentials, which would have been applicable during the absence.
12.11	In the event that an employee becomes disabledfo r 24 or more consecutive work hours during his scheduled vacationperiod, the employee may submit an STD claim subject to the normal approval procedure. If approved, the unused vacation will be rescheduled within the vacationyearfollowing the principles in Article 12.04.
12.12	When an employee’s vacation pay is reduced in a vacation year due to lay-offs, the following adjustment in vacation hours will be made:
Reductions in vacation pay for reasons other than lay-off will not impact on this provision:
1.	The gross amount of vacationpayf o r the applicable vacationyear will be divided by the employee’s base rateat the vacation cut-off date in Article 12.02. The resulting ‘ Adjusted Vacation Entitlement” (AVE) will become the employee’s vacation entitlement if it is less than the amount specified in 12,02.
2.	If an employee is not required to work during lit e specified vacation maintenance shutdown and his "AVE" total is not enough to cover that period, he will be considered on lay-off o r the shortfallfor thepurpose of Employment Insurance, Wage Security Account and relatedprograms.
3.	An employee described in iu) above will not be considered on lay-offfor the purpose of Article 8 or any other article in this Agreement exceptfor any period where his normal entitlementfalls short of the vacation shutdown period
4.	During the remainder of the vacation year, an employee wishing additional vacation time off; once the "A VE is exhausted, may request vacation without pay (for the difference between normal entitlement and the "A VEj which will be
granted subject to theprovisions of Article 12. This time will not be treated in th e same manner as that in it) above.
5,	Vacationpay will be paid out on the basis of the above noted base rate as the
UAVE" is taken.
ARTICLE XIII - PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
13.01a) The following days will be observed as Public Holidays:
New Year's Day
Heritage Day, or the 3rd Monday in February
Good Friday
Victoria Day
Dominion Day
First Monday in August
Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day
Remembrance Day
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
b)	In the event a Public Holiday falls after an employee is laid off, he shall be paid eight
(8) hours at his basic hourly rate for the Holiday providing he worked, or was on approved vacation leave, at least one (1) complete shift during the fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately prior to the Holiday. In addition, if an employee is eligible to receive pay under this clause for Christmas Day, he shall also be paid for Boxing Day and New Year's Day.
This provision does not apply to an employee who is eligible for Disability or Workers Compensation benefits when the holiday falls.
13.02	If an employee is scheduled to work on any or all of the Public Holidays and the Company does not require him to work on any or all of the Public Holidays, he shall be entitled to his regular wages exclusive of overtime for that day were that day not a holiday.
13.03	If an employee does work on any or all of the Public Holidays, he shall be paid eight (8) hours at his basic hourly rate and be paid two (2) times his basic hourly rate for all hours worked.
13.04	When New Year's Day, Christmas Day or Remembrance Day falls on a Sunday, then the Monday following such day shall be observed as New Year's Day, Christmas Day or Remembrance Day for the purposes of Article 13.01; and further when Christmas Day is moved to the following Mondaythenthe next day, Tuesday, shall be observed as Boxing Day for the purposes of Article 13,01.
13.05	This Article shall not limit the right of the Company to schedule an employee to work on any such Public Holiday. However, the Company agrees that the number of employees required shall be minimized as far as practicable without interferingwith the operation.
13.06	An employee who was not scheduled to work and does not work on any or all Public Holidays, shall beentitledto his regular basicwage, provided he hasworked hislast scheduled shift priorto the Public Holiday and his first scheduled shift after the Public Holiday.
13.07	An employee who has been scheduled to work on a Public Holiday and does notwork shall not receive any pay for that holiday, unless he gives reasons satisfactory to the Company for such failure to work.
13.08	The workweek is to be reduced by eight (8) hoursfor each holiday listed in 13.01 for the purpose of pay calculations only.
ARTICLE XIV -HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
14.01	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee nor to maintain the work week or working hours.
14.02	A day means a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours commencing with the start of an employee's scheduled shift.
14.03	The workweek shall be the period commencing midnight Saturday, and ending at midnight the following Saturday.
14.04	Hoisting and lowering schedulesfor employees working undergroundwill be arranged to accommodate the scheduled shift for that day from collarto collar but variations from such schedules not exceeding fifteen (15) minutes which do not occur consistently shall be disregarded. Any delay greater than fifteen (15) minutes in hoisting employees from underground which is due to necessary repairwork or safety considerations or causes beyond the Company's control shall be paid for on the basis of two (2) times the employee's basic hourly rate, but such time shall not be considered to be time worked.
14.05	An employee shall be paid two (2) times his basic hourly rate for time actually worked in excess of his daily scheduled hours or for hours worked in excess of the hours of the averaging provision in effect.
14.06	If an employee is required by the Company to work his scheduled day off, he shall be paid two (2) times his basic hourly rate for all hours actually worked on his scheduled day off.
A scheduled day off shall be defined as starting when the employee has completed his scheduled shift,
14.07	If an employee's scheduled days off are changed with less than twenty-four (24) hours notice prior to commencement of his days off, he shall be paid at two (2) times his basic hourly rate for the first day worked of his previously scheduled days off.
14.08	There shall be no "pyramiding" of overtime.
14.09	a) When an employee is called out to work after he has left site and less than 12
hours notice is given, he shall receive payment of $20.00 or 20? per kilometer travelled from his place of residence (maximum $25.00 per round trip).
14.10
14.11
He shall be paid six (6) hours at his basic hourly rate, or two times (2) his basic hourly rate for all hours worked, whichever is the greater; provided, however, that when such work continues intothe employee's regularwork shift, such work prior to his regularwork shift shall be paid for at two (2) times his basic hourly rate, and his regularwork shift shall be paid for at the basic hourly rate for the hours worked.
This minimum guarantee shall also apply to an employee who reports for work for pre-arranged overtime, unless he is told in advance not to report.
b)	An employee so called out shall not be required to perform routine work, after he has completed the work for which he was originally called out, excepting that he may be requiredto perform other emergency work consistent with his skills which has arisen from the time of the callout or arises during the period of the callout.
c)	An employee called out (other than to replace an absent employee where afull shift is offered) who works anyportion of time in the first four (4) hours of the eight (8) hours immediately preceding his next scheduled shift, will not be required for his regular shift that day until eight (8) hours have elapsed from the time he finished callout work. He will be paid at his base straight time rate for anytime missed on his regular shift due to this provision. In addition to the above rest period, an employee will be granted an additional two (2) hours leave withoutpay upon request.
If the employee has less than two hours left in his regular shift after the required eight hours rest period, he will not be requiredto work the remainder of the shift and he will not receive pay for the additional time missed.
d)	When callout continues into an employee's regular scheduled shift, an employee will be permitted to work to the end of his regular scheduled shift.
a)	An employee who reports for work on his regular shift and was not told in advance not to report, shall be given his regular scheduled hours of work, or, at the Company's option, shall be given his scheduled hours of work pay at his basic hourly rate. When such employee has no transportation available, he shall be provided transportation to his residence.
b)	This provision shall not apply to an employee who is returning to work after an unauthorized absence. This provision will not apply if the employee has been absent from work and fails before returning to work to notifythe Company of his intentionto return to work; or if the employee has not notified the Company of his correct telephone number; or if he has no telephone.
The daily lunch period for an employee who is on a continuous shift schedule shall be
thirty (30) minutes which will be paid as though the employee worked, during which time
he shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of service.
The daily lunch period for an employee who is on a day shift schedule will be thirty (30) minutes, work station to work station, which will be paid as though the employee worked.
14.12	When an employee is required to work overtime for more than two (2) hours following his scheduled shift, he shall be supplied a lunch. If the overtime will progress past another normal meal interval (approximately four (4) hours), a second lunch will be provided. Employees shall be provided with a twenty (20) minute paid break to eat the lunch provided.
Meals will not be provided for scheduled overtime work.
Supervisors shall have the option of allowing a lunch allowance in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) in lieu of a lunch break ifthe employee is in agreement. This will not be applicable ifthe overtime exceeds two and one half (21/2) hours from the start of the overtime shift.
14.13	When an employee is required to work unscheduled overtime and there is no transportation available, he shall be provided transportation to his residence.
14.14	The Company will post weekly work schedules. The Company will not change these work schedules to avoid the payment of overtime.
14.15	Overtimewill bevoluntary, except when an employee cannot be relieved or in the event of an emergency.
ARTICLE XV- SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
15.01	The Union, Company and the empioyee(s) recognizing the benefits to be derived from a safe and healthy place of employmentwill all cooperate to make the Company a safe, clean and sanitary place to work. Safety and health are the responsibility of every person. Reasonable rules and regulations may be established and enforced by the Company for the health and safety of employees and the protection cf Company and employee property, and to maintain clean and sanitary work areas. Failure to cooperate, being to the detriment of all employees, shall be deemed just cause for discipline.
Employees have the right to refuse to do any particular act or series cf acts where they have reasonablegroundsfor believing it could be unusually dangerous, until steps have been taken to satisfy them otherwise, or until the Safety Committee or an Occupational Health Officer has ruled on the matter. The Company may assign alternate work to the employees until the matter is resolved Employees should consult their Safety Manual for detailed provisions outlining the right to refuse unsafe work.
The Company will publish a booklet containing safety rules and regulationsfor employees. Any safety rulesput into effect after the booklet has beenprepared will be posted in proper places far the information cf employees. Prior to thepublication cf any new booklet containing safety rules and regulations, the Company shall submit such publication to the Safety Committeefor its review. Withinfifteen days from the receipt cf theproposedpublication, theSafety Committee shall return the booklet to the Company along with any recommendationsfor improvement. In the event the Committee believes any safety rule or regulation is in conflict with the
15.02
15.03
15.04
15.05
15.06
Agreement, the matter shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure and such grievance may be submitted at the third step cf the GrievanceProcedure.”
Copies of minutes of monthly crew safety meetings will beposted in the Dry area and distributed to the Co-Chairpersons.
(a)	The Union shall appoint a Safety Committee composed of three (3) employees
for the mine and three (3) employees for the plant. In addition, the Union may appoint alternate delegates to replace each of the six (6) regular delegates.
Members of the Safety Committee, or their appointed alternates, shall accompany the Safety Supervisor on a regularly scheduled inspection of their respective working areas, once each month and on the following basis:
0	The Safety Committeemen from the undergroundgroup shall inspect
the underground areas.
ii)	The Safety Committeemen from the surface group shall inspect the
surface areas.
<b)	The Surface Co-chairman of the safety committee shall accompany the safety
committee on surface tours and the Underground Co-chairman of the safety committee shall accompany the safety committee on underground tours.
(c)	The underground and surface committees shall meet as a joint committee at least once quarterly and shall tour at the request of either Co-chairman of the committee. The Committee Members will be given one-half (Vz) hour preparation time priorto eachjoint meetingto prepare an agenda.
(d)	The Safety Committee shall act as a Safety Committee as prescribed in the Occupational Health Act of 1993, as amended.
(e)	Employees on the Safety Committee shall not suffer loss of pay for time spent in the performance of these duties during their regularly scheduled working hours.
(f)	If a committee member is on scheduled time ofl^ he will be paid his basic hourly wages exclusive of differentials, for time spent in attendance at the meeting. Such time will not be considered as time worked for the purpose of calculating overtime.
The Company shall continue its policy of paying an employee for his full work shift if the employee sustains a compensable industrial accident and is unable to complete the balance of the shift.
The Company agrees to continue its present practices with regard to the supply of required personal safety equipment.
The Company may replace an employee’s clothing irreparably damaged as the result of an industrial accident.
The Company agrees that any employee who is required by the Company to undergo medical examination during his regular working hours will not lose pay for the time
spent obtaining the examination up to a maximum of three (3) hours at straight time rate.
ARTICLE XVf - UNION SECURITY
16.01	In accordance with the requirements of the Saskatchewan Trade Union Act, every employee, who is now or hereafter becomes a member of the Union, shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment, and every new employee whose employment commences hereafter shall, within thirty (30) days after the commencement in his employment, apply for, and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of his employment, provided that any employee in the appropriate bargaining unit who is not required to maintain his membership or apply for and maintain his membership in the Union shall, as a condition of his employment, tender to the Union the periodic dues uniformly required to be paid by the members of the Union.
16.02	During the term of this Agreement, the Company will deduct from the wages owing to each employee in the bargaining unit, (who has duly completed upon commencement of employment an assignment of wages for union dues), union dues in accordance with the formula provided by the United Steelworkers of America.
16.03	In accordance with the Trade Union Act, a list of employees, who have provided the Company with such authority, shall accompany the payment to the Union.
16.04	The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless from any liability or action, arising out of the operation of this Article.
16.05	“The Company agrees to deduct one cent (10)for each h our workedfr om wages of employees in the bargaining unit and within two (2) week following such deductions pay the amount to the “Humanity Fund” by forwarding said deduction to:
United Steelworkers of America, C.L.C,, Local 7689 U200 3311 Fairtight Drive SASKATOON,SK S7M3Y5
Employee deductions are voluntary and may be cancelled at any time. However, employees wishing to cancel mustprovide two (2) weeks advance written notice of such cancellation to the Company.
ARTICLE XVII - HANDICAPPED EMPLOYEES
17.01	In the event an employee sustains an injury at work, or becomes affected by an occupational disease during the course of his employment and becomes physically handicapped as a result thereof, every reasonable effort will be made by the Company to give the handicapped employee a job suitable to his condition if such is available in which case the provisions of Article 8.18 shall not apply.
ARTICLE XVIII - BULLETIN BOARDS
18,01	The Company shall provide and maintain Union Bulletin Boards at locations agreed
upon by the Union and the Company. Such Bulletin Boards may be used by the Union for the purpose of posting notices signed by the President of the Union or in his absence an officer thereof. The Union or its members shall not otherwise post or distribute any kind of literature upon the property of the Company without first obtaining written approval of the Company.
ARTICLE XIX - CO-OPERATIVE WAGE STUDY
19.01	The Co-operative Wage Study (C.W.S) Manual for the Job Description, Classification and Wage Administration, dated July 27, 1979 (herein referred to as "the Manual") is incorporated into this Agreement as APPENDIX "A" and its provisions shall apply as if set forth in full within this Agreement.
19.02	Each employee'sjob shall be described and classified and a rate of pay applied to such employee in accordance with the provisions in this Agreement.
19.03	The Standard Hourly Wage Scale set forth in Schedule "A" and any increases thereto, shall become effective on the dates specified in Schedule "A".
The rates for each job class shall be the standard hourly rate for all jobs classified within such job class and shall be applied to any employee in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
TEMPORARY TRANSFER
19.04	An employee who is temporarily transferred from his regular job shall be paid the standard hourly rate of the job to which he has been transferred, provided such rate is not less than that of his regularjob. If the rate of the job to which he is temporarily transferred, but not as a result of a lay-off, is less than the rate of his regularjob, he shall be paid the rate of his regularjob during the period of such temporary transfer.
INCENTIVES
19.05	Should the Company desire to install incentives to cover any jobs, the following shall govern:
a)	The standard hourly rates for the respective jobs shall be the base rates and minimum hourly guaranteed rates for such incentives; and
b)	The Company shall first discuss with and explain to the Union the development of any incentive plan and reach mutual agreement with the Union regarding such incentive plan before such incentive plan is installed.
GENERAL
19.06	Any mathematical or clerical errors made in the preparation, establishment or application of job descriptions, classifications or standard hourly rates shall be corrected to conform to the provisions of this Agreement.
19.07	Except as otherwise provided, no basis shall exist for an employee covered by this Agreement to allege that a wage rate inequity exists.
TRADE AND ASSIGNED MAINTENANCE CONVENTION
19.08	In addition to the provisions of the Manual for describing and classifying trade and assigned maintenancejobs the following shall apply:
A)	The description and classification shall be carried out in accordance with the Manual.
B)	The job classification of trade jobs, having been classified as in Paragraph (a), above, shall be increased by two job classes and the two job classes shall be incorporated into the total classification of the job.
C)	The job classification of assigned maintenancejobs, having been classified at job class eleven or higher as in Paragraph (A), above, shallbe increased by two job classes which shall be incorporated into the total classification of the job.
D)	Where a change in an existing job requires a new description and classification for a job on which this convention has already been applied, suchjob shall be reclassified in the same manner as that followed prior to the application of this convention and the provisionsof Paragraphs (A), (B) and (C), above, shall apply
TIME OFF FOR C.W.S. COMMITTEE
19.09	There shall be a committee known as the "C.W.S. Committee", consisting of three (3) employees appointed by the Union to represent the Union and three (3) persons appointed by the Company to represent the Company. Either party may change its representativesfrom time to time.
Meetingsof the C.W.S. Committees shall be held as frequently as required at mutually agreeable times.
The Company agrees to grant time off from their regular work to the three (3) union C.W.S. Committee members to perform their C.W.S. responsibilities. This time off shall be considered as time worked and the Union Committee members shall:
(A) Accumulate any seniority to which they normally would be entitled.
<B) Receive their regular rate of pay from the Company as based upon a normal work week, and
(C) Return to their regular employment when their C.W.S, work is completed.
ARTICLE XX -SUPERVISORS WORKING
20.01	A supervisor’s prime responsibility is to plan, organize and supervise the work of his men. Supervisory and other out cf scope personnel will not perform work normally done by a bargaining unit employee, except:
in emergencies for protection of Company property, and/or the safety and health of employees;
in the instruction and training of employees; work of a research and development nature.
ARTICLE XXI -TOOLS
21.01	The Company will issue the employee at no cost the tools required in the opinion of the Companyforthe performance of the work by the employee. The employee will signfor all tools at the time of issue.
21.02	The employee shall be responsible for all tools issued to him. All tools issued to the employee shall be returned in good condition, excusing fair wear and tear only, upon the request cf the Company or upon termination. The cost of any tool, which is not returned, shall be deducted from any wages due and payable to the employee.
21.03	The employee's supervisor may authorize the replacement of a broken or worn out tool, or a tool lost due to excusable circumstances.
21.04	Clothing and Boot Allowance
A clothing and boot allowance of $175.00 will be paid to employees of record as of July 1st each year, to be paid on the first full pay period of that month.
21.05	Work gloves will be provided, at no cost to the employee, and replaced when warranted on an exchange basis. A new employee will be issued a new pair of gloves at the time of hiring.
ARTICLE XXII -WAGE DIFFERENTIALS
22.01	Shiftworkers working on the Afternoon and Midnight shifts shall be paid premiums over and above their basic hourly wage rate as follows:
Afternoon shift- 750/hour Graveyard shift - 75C/hour
22.02	Employees shall receive an additional forty (40) cents per hour while working underground.
22.03	The Company will pay an employee who is scheduled to work on a Sunday a premium of two dollars ($2.00) for each hour actually worked on Sunday. This is in addition to any shift or underground differential. Sunday premium shall not be paid for the hour(s) an employee works at overtime rates or on a Statutory Holiday.
ARTICLE XXIII -NOTICE
23.01	Any notice in writing which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by registered mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
To the Company:
PCS Inc., Allan Division Allan, Saskatchewan SOK 0C0
To the Union:
United Steelworkers of America, CLC Local 7689
No. 200- 3311 Fairlight Drive Saskatoon, SaskatchewanS7M 3Y5
23.02	Any notice so mailed shall be deemed given as of the next business day after date of mailing. The registration receipt shall establish the date of mailing.
23.03	Either party may change its address for service of notices at any time by notice as above mentioned.
ARTICLE XXIV -COPIES OF AGREEMENT
24.01	The Company will arrange to have copies of this Agreement printed in a suitable booklet
for reference of employees and make one (1) copy available to each employee.
ARTICLE XXV -TERMS OF THE AGREEMENT
25.01	This agreement shall become effective the date of ratification and shall continue in full force and effect until midnight April 30, 2002 and from yearto year thereafter unless written notice is given as provided by Article 25,02.
25.02	On written notice of not less than thirty (30) days nor more than sixty (60) days priorto the expiry date of this Agreement either party to this Agreement may give notice to require the other party to enter into negotiations for a new Agreement.
25.03	This document contains the entire Agreement between the parties and shall not be deemed modified or expanded in any way unless such modification or expansion shall be evidenced in writing, signed by both parties and dated on or subsequent to the date of this Agreement.
SIGNED ON BEHALF CF POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC.:
W. M. Peddle, Director, Industrial Relations
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF PCS INC., ALLAN DIVISION:
D. A. Weinheimer, Administration Superintendent
K.	A. Podwin, Mill General Superintendent
L,	S. Toth, Mine General Superintendent
W. D. Walters, Human Resources Superintendent
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, CLC:
B, Welke, International Representative
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STEELWORKDER OF AMERICA, CLC, and its Local 7689:
G, B. Field, President
R, A. St. Pierre, Negotiating Committeeman G, A. Phillips, Negotiating Committeeman T. J. Loehndorf, Negotiating Committeeman R. J. Boehm, Negotiating Committeeman
APPENDIX "A"
Standard Hourly Wage Scale
In accordance with Article 19,03 of this Agreement and theprovision of the Co-operative Wage Study, the Standard Hourly WageScales listed below become effective on the dates specified.
		Date: May 1st ?nnn	Date: i»* onm
JobClass	Old Rate	Increment - 0.480	Increment - 0.490
01	16.07	16.640	17.160
02	16.54	17.120	17.650
03	17.01	17.600	18,140
04	17.48	18.080	18.630
05	17.95	18.560	19.120
06	18.42	19.040	19.610
07	18.89	19.520	20.100
08	19.36	20.000	20.590
09	19.83	20.480	21.080
10	20,30	20.960	21.570
11	20.77	21.440	22.060
12	21.24	21.920	22.550
13	21.71	22.400	23.040
14	22.18	22.880	23.530
15	22.65	23.360	24.020
16	23.12	23.840	24.510
17	23.59	24.320	25.000
18	24.06	24.800	25.490
19	24.53	25.280	25.980
20	25.00	25.760	26.470
EXHIBIT "A1
Job
Glass
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE
MINE OPERATING DEPARTMENT
Training Job Training Class Class Class
19	Mine	3)	17	15	Service	3)	13
	Machine	2)	15		Crew	2)	11
	Op.	1)	13		Op. I	D	9
3
3
17	Rehab.	3)	15	13 *Service	2) 11
	Machine	2)	13	Crew	1) 9
	Op. 3	1)	11	Op. II	
15	Back-up	2)	13		
	Op. I	1)	11		
10 *Back-up 1) a Op. il
Job
Class
3 Labourer
Footnotes
250 hours actually worked in each training class * Bid Level Jobs.
NOTES
The respective job trainee periods are for an employee who does not have training by direct promotional sequence through the appropriate line of progression, and he will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
EXHIBIT "A"
LINES OF I iOGRI	IN THE
MINE OPERATING DEPARTMENT
- MAN/SHAI	LINE
JOB CLASS
TRAINING CLASS
16
17
12
13
Hoistman
Shaftman
Cagetender
Skiptender
2)	14 1) 12
3)	15
2)	13
1) 11
1) 10

11
9
10
*Wagonmaster
1) 8
JOB CLASS
9	* Lubricator
TRAINING CLASS	JOB CLASS	TRAINING CLASS
1) 7	11 * Dispatcher	1) 9
(* BID LEVEL JOBS)
FOOTNOTES
250 hours actually worked in each training class.
NOTES
The respective job trainee periods are for an employee who does not have training by direct promotionalsequence through the appropriate line of progression, and he will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
EXHIBIT'S"
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE
MINE MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Job Class	Trade Jobs			
18	Heavy Duty Mechanic	Industrial Mechanic	Electrician	Welder
	*Apprentice	*Apprentice	*Apprentice	*Apprentice
FOOTNOTES
For the Apprenticeship Training periods see Schedule Appendix E
The trade jobs listed above shall receive a two job class additive for the Company recognized licensedjourneyman ticket. This two job class additive is interpreted as the two job class additive in Article 19.08 -Trade and Maintenance Convention, sub-section (b) of this Agreement. *
* Bid Level Job
EXHIBIT"C"
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE PLANT OPERATING DEPARTMENT
JOB		TRAINING	
CLASS		CLASS	
19	** OPERATOR GENERAL	3)	17
		2)	15
		1)	13
16	FLOTATION	3)	14
		2)	12
16	CRYSTALLIZATION	2)	14
16	COMPACTION	2)	14
		1)	12
14	PRODUCT SCREENING AND DISPATCH	2)	12
		1)	10
13	DEWATER AND SLURRY	1)	11
13	FEED PREPARATION	1)	11
12	*REAGENTS	2)	10
		D	8
8	* PLANT UTILITY
Footnotes
250 hours actually worked in each training class * Bidleveljob
** The Operator General must have training in the ReagentArea.
NOTES
If it becomes necessary to have Reagents on more than one shift, Reagentswould be put back into the Lines of Progression between Plant Utility and Feed PreparationOperator, and would no longer be a bid leveljob.
The respectivejob trainee periods are for an employee who does not have training by direct promotional sequence through the appropriate line of progression, and he will maintain his previous rate, but no higherthan the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
An employee progressingthrough the direct line of progression from Compactionto Crystallization will receive an additional twenty cents (20?) per hourwhile in Crystallization and on progressingto Flotation will receive a furthertwenty cents (20<J) per hourwhile in Flotation. The employee will not retain these additional monieswhen progressingto the position of Operator General.
EXHIBIT "D"
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE PLANT MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Job
Class Trade Jobs
18 Electrician Stationary Welder ______________	Ens. II	___
*Apprentice *Apprentice *Apprentice
Job Class Assigned Maintenance Jobs 16	• Sandblaster Painter
9	Lubricator
8	* Tool Crib Attendant
FOOTNOTES
Industrial
Mechanic
*Apprentice
Heavy Duty Mechanic
*Apprentice
Machinist
*Apprentice
Carpenter
*Apprentice
Training Class
3)	14
2) 12 1) 10
1)	7
1) 6
For the Apprenticeship training periods see Schedule Appendix E.
• Bid Level Job
The trade jobs listed above shall receive a two job class additivefor the Company recognized licensed Journeyman ticket. This two job class additive is interpreted as the two job class additive in Article 19.08 - Trade and Maintenance Convention, subsection (b) of this Agreement.
NOTE -Assigned Maintenance Jobs
The job trainee period shown are for an employee who does not have the appropriatejob training. When this occurs then the employee will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
- 250 hours actually worked in each training class.
EXHIBIT “ E
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN PLANTLOADOUT
Job		Training	
Glass		Class	
15	Weighmaster	1)	13
	3	2)	11
	3	3)	9
13	Mobile Equipment Operator	1)	11
	3	2)	9
9	Chute Operator	1)	7
3
8	* Utility Operator
3
3	Labourer
FOOTNOTES
250 hours actually worked in each training class * Bid Level Job
NOTE
The respective job trainee periods are for an employee who does not have training by direct promotional sequence through the appropriate line of progression, and he will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
EXHIBIT'T"
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE
WAREHOUSEDEPARTMENT
Job		Training
Class		Class
12	*Warehouseman	2) 10 1) 8
FOOTNOTES
250 hours actually worked in each training class * Bid Level Job
NOTE
The job trainee period shown are for an employee who does not have the appropriatejob training. When this occurs then the employee will maintain his previous rate, but no higher than the standard hourly rate of the job being learned.
EXHIBIT'^11
LINES OF PROGRESSION IN THE SAFETY DEPARTMENT
Job
Class
5	* Dryman
FOOTNOTES * Bid Level Job
APPENDIX B
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
B1,01 Apprenticeship vacancies as determined by the Company shall be filled in accordance with the job posting provisions of Article 8,18 of this Collective Agreement subject to the qualification requirements as determined by the Apprenticeship Branch and upon the bidder demonstrating the potential to successfully complete the program through a prescribed aptitude test.
An eligible employee can only enter one apprenticeship during his employment with the Company, unlessthe original apprenticeship was cancelled as in B1.10 ora minimum of 4 years has passed since the employee was removed from an Apprenticeship for any reason. Journeymen will not be allowed to enter the Apprenticeship Program nor will any other employee employed as a Tradesman.
B1.02 Employees who are indentured will be given leaves of absence in order to attend formal training in accordance with the number and types of courses offered and the ability of the Company to meet its normal requirements of operation.
B1,03 Successful candidates will be placed in available Apprenticeships in order of seniority and will start at the entry level unless they are recognized by the Apprenticeship Branch as eligible to enter at a higher level.
B1.04 a) Subject to (d) and (e) below apprenticed employees, while taking the off site ApprenticeshipTraining Programwill be paid the equivalent of their regular salaries (basic straight time rate with no premium pay) less any training allowance monies received from Government sources.
b)	Any Government "living away from home" allowance received by the apprentice while on a training course will not be deducted in any calculation made by the Company in order to determine the basis of Company monetary assistance during Apprenticeship training.
c)	While taking the above training, the employee will be paid return mileage for one complete trip per week (at the rate of twenty-five (256) cents per kilometre) less any mileage monies received from Government sources.
d)	If the employee fails to pass any level of training on the first attempt, he will only be paid make-up pay (as described in (a) above) for repeating one level. He will be eligible for mileage allowance as in (c) above and the cost of benefit coverage (as outlined in Article 11,11 Leave of Absence) will be paid by the Company while the employee in on approved leave of absence for such training.
e)	Employees who are required to take formal training after the second attempt at the Journeyman's exam will receive the make-up pay and mileage allowance described in (a) and (c) above if the training requires them to be absent from work.
B1.05 a) Apprenticeship wages will be as shown in Appendix C.
b)	An apprentice will only move to the next pay rate after having successfully completed the course as prescribed by the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch, or after having completed the required months of experience.
c)	Any Company wage allowance paid to an apprentice who is away on a training course will be paid on the normal pay dates of the Company.
B1.06 In the event an apprentice, while on course, is excused from attendance, as shown on his course report, and received his full wage allowance from the Government program, he may also receive his full allowance from the Company as per Article 11.06, If the apprentice is not excused from attendance he shall receive no wage allowance.
B1.07 An apprentice will be removed from the Apprenticeship Program and his Apprenticeship contract cancelled for any of the following reasons:
a)	Just cause.
b)	If an apprentice fails to take the training course when he is scheduled to take same, provided that his failure to take such course is not due to a cause beyond his control or the Company has agreed to a change in scheduled training.
c)	If an apprentice fails a training course at any one level on more than one occasion.
d)	If an apprentice fails the Journeyman's exam on the third attempt.
B1.08 If an employee fails to satisfactorily perform the duties in an Apprenticeship Program, as per B1.07 he shall be returned to his last job classification prior to entry into the Apprenticeship Program, and assignment, if the job assignment still exists.
B1.09 If an Apprenticeship is cancelled due to a reduction of the work force, the displaced Apprentice will be returned to the assignment he held immediately prior to becoming an Apprentice, if the job assignment still exists.
APPENDIX "C"
Appendix C-Apprenticeship Pay Rates
Indentured Apprentices in afour-year program will be paid asfollows:
First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year
Post-Fourth Year, Without Journeyman Journeyman
J.C. 14 J.C 15 J.C. 26 J.C, 17 J.C. 18
J.C. 20
APPENDIX D
NON TRADE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
A schedule of Trainee rates for the respective Trainee periods of 250 hours of actual training experience with the Company on jobs for which training opportunity is not provided by the promotional sequence of relatedj obs, shall be established at the level of the Standard Hourly Wage Scale rates for the respective job classes. This determination shall be on the basis of the required employment training and experience time specified in Factor2 of the job classification record of the respectivejob as follows:
(A)	CodeC: Seven to twelve months:
(1)	One trainee period classification at a level two job classes below the job class of the
job.
(B)	CodeD; Thirteen to eighteen months:
(1)	A first trainee period classification at a level four job classes below the job class of the job, and
(2)	A second trainee period classification at a level two job classes below the job class of the job.
(C)
Code E and higher: nineteen months and above:
A first trainee period classification at a level six job classes below the job class of the job.
(2) A second trainee period classification at a level fourjob classes below the job class of the job, and
A third trainee period classification at a level two job classes below the job class of the job.
APPENDIX “D'
List of Non-Trade Jobs in Job Class8 and up with FactorTwo (2) BeingC.08 or higher are:
Factor	Job
2	.Class
Sandblaster Painter Surface Lubricator Underground Lubricator Surface Tool Crib Attendant Operator General Flotation Crystallization Compaction
Grinding and Desliming Operator Dewater, Drying and Tails Disposal Op Reagent Operator
Product Screening & Dispatching OP,
Weighmaster
Mobile Equipment Operator
Crushing and Screening Operator
Chute Operator
Mining Machine Operator
Rehabilitation Machine Operator
Back-up Operator I
Back-up Operator II
Service Crew Operator I
Service Crew Operator 11
Shaftman
Hoistman
Skiptender
Cagetender
Wagonmaster
Dispatcher
Surface Warehouse
Underground Warehouse
E 1,6
CO,8
CO.8
CO.8
G2.4
E 1,6
D1.2
D1.2
CO,8
CO,8
D1.2
D1.2
E 1.6
D1.2
CO,8
CO,8
F2.0
E 1,6
D1.2
CO,8
F2.0
D1.2
F2.0
D1.2
D1.2
CO.8
CO.8
CO,8
D1.2
D1.2
16
9
9 8 19 16 16 16 13
13 12
14
15 13
10
9 19 17 15
10
15 13 17
16 13 12 10 11 12 12
APPENDIX "E"
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK (Production employees and others on rotating 12 hour schedules)
Addendum to the Collective Bargaining Agreement effective April 7, 1992, concluded between Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc., Allan Division, hereinafter called the "Company" and the
United Steelworkers of America, C.L.C., for itself and on behalf cf its Local 7689, hereinafter called the "Union".
The terms of the cited Collective Bargaining Agreement are the applicable terms to be applied except as modified herein.
This addendum applies only to those employees working a twelve (12) hour Compressed Work Week Schedule.
This Addendum shall continue in effect, unless terminated by either party upon written notice. In the event this addendum is terminated, there will be a thirty (30) day cancellation provision with no cost to the Company for discontinuing the schedule and returning to the original schedule.
It is the intent that the Company does not incur any additional costs under the provisions of this addendum that would normally be incurred under the previous eight (8) hour work schedule. The parties agree that the provisions in this agreement are more favourable than related provisions of the Labour Standards Act.
The following is agreed to as a part of the negotiating process between the Union and the Company and reflects a new and unique approach to the hours of work.
ARTICLE XII -VACATIONSWITH PAY
12,08 Ifa publicholidayasdesignatedinArticleXlli occurs during an employee's vacation period, he shall receive an additional working day of vacation and shall be paid for the public holiday in accordance with Article 13.06 of this addendum.
ARTICLE XIII - PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
13.01c) Each Public Holidaywill be observed as commencing at 8:00 a.m. the calendar day of the Public Holiday, and ending 8:00 am. the calendar day following the Public Holiday. Article 13.04 does not apply to employees covered by this agreement.
13,06 An employee who was not scheduled to work and does not work on any or all Public Holidays, shall be entitled to eight (8) hours pay at his regular basic wage, provided that he has worked his last scheduled shift prior to the public holiday and his first scheduled shift after the public holiday.
However, the Company may give an employee another day off without pay to shorten the hours of work in the pay period and in such case his public holiday pay will be the greater of his basic wage times eight (8) hours or times the hours he was scheduled to work on the
other day off. Such other day off will be consecutive with the employee's other scheduled days off in the pay period.
ARTICLEXIV -HOURS OFWORK AND OVERTIME
14.03 (a) Averaging periods commence at 8:00 a.m. on a Sunday.
The work week for the purposes of averaging hours shall be based on an average of forty (40) hours per week over the averaging period.
14,1 I The daily lunch period for any employee who is on a continuous shift schedule shall be thirty (30) minutes after approximately four (4) consecutive hours of work and thirty (30) minutes after an additional approximate four (4) hours of work, which will be paid as though the employee worked, during which time he shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of service.
14.15 Overtime will be voluntary, except when an employee cannot be relieved or in the event of an emergency. Due to the length of shifts under this Addendum, overtime will remain voluntary provided there are adequate numbers of qualified employees who serve notice to the company of their availability to work in case of an operational necessity in any shift. If the requirement of voluntary employees are not met, it is understood and agreed, for the continuance of this Addendum, a compulsory rotation selection of employees for such operational necessities shall be mandatory.
APPENDIX B -APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
B1.04 (a) Apprenticed employees, while taking an off-site training course, will be paid the equivalent of their regular salaries (basic straight time rated based on eight (8)h ours per day with no premium pay), less any training allowance monies received from Government sources.
ARTICLE XXII -WAGE DIFFERENTIALS
22.01 Shiftworkers working between4;Q0 p.m, and 8:00 a.m. shall be paid a premium over and above their basic hourly wage rate in the amount of seventy-five (75) cents per hour.
See also special Crew agreements as follows:
Appendix E-1 Appendix E-2 Appendix E-3 Appendix E-4
Appendix E-5 Appendix E-6
Mill Maintenance Crews A & B Surface Electrical Crew TfilHy Crew, Plant Service Crew
UndergroundField Crews Warehouse
BENEFIT SUMMARY
The following is a brief summary of the benefit plans, which will be maintained by the Company on behalf of the members of the Union. The official plan texts state exact terms, conditions and limitations and will be the governing factor whenever a question arises. More information on the following plans can be obtained from the Industrial Relations Department.
The Company will pay the total premium cost of Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, LongTerm Disability Insurance, Dental Insurance, Weekly Accident and Sickness Insuranceand Group Extended Health Benefits(M.S.I.)
Benefit coverage begins on the first day employment commences except as otherwise stated.
PENSION (Allan Flourly Plan Registration#Sask 50-696)
Pensionableservice starts on the first day of active employment. At retirement, the pension benefits will be:
-	Forty-five Dollars and fifty cents ($45.50) per month per year of pensionable service for
employees who retired after May 1st, 2001.
Forty-seven Dollars ($47.00) per month per year of pensionable service for employees who retire on or after April 30th, 2002,
Employees will be enrolled in the PCS Defined Contribution Pension Plan with a contribution rate of 2.3% of basic earnings, matched by the Company. The Company will match contributions to a maximum of three (3) months following the month in which an employee is laid off. Such contributions are to be made within 6 pay periods of returning to work.
LIFE INSURANCE
-	benefit two (2) times basicannual earnings taken to the nearest multiple of $1000.
-	Dependent life insurance as follows:
.	Spouse:	$4,000.00
.	Eligible Dependent: $4,000.00
ACCIDENTAL DEATH & DISMEMBERMENT
-	benefit two (2) times basic annual earnings taken to the nearest multiple of $1000,
-	additional benefits include 100% benefitto insured person for loss of both hands, both feet or sight of both eyes (or one of each), speech and hearing.
-	75% benefit for loss of one arm or one leg.
67% benefit for loss of one hand, one foot, or one eye.
50% benefit for loss of speech or hearing.
33 1/3% benefit for loss of thumb and index finger on either hand. loss of use of the above may also be covered.
-	in no event shall more than 100% benefit be paidfor injuries and/or death resultingfrom any one accident.
no benefits are payable for intentionally self-inflicted injury.
WEEKLY ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS BENEFIT
- Accident and Sickness benefit shall be 70% of base rate (at the time of disability) for up to seventeen (17) weeks of benefit, to take effect on the fourth day for an accident or illness, provided that a minimum of three accumulated sick days and time off with pay entitlement underC.B.A. Clause 11,06 is used priorto Accident and Sickness benefits taking effect.
c?
- No benefits are payable under the Accident and Sickness program for disabilities covered by Worker's Compensation.
Note: Any dispute as to the medical eligibility of such benefit entitlement is between the employee and the insurance company, which adjudicates the claim.
LONG TERM DISABILITY
-	Benefits shall be 70% of base rate monthly earnings to take effect on expiration of Weekly Accident and Sickness Benefit.
Note: Any dispute as to the medical eligibility of such benefit entitlement is between the employee and the insurance company, which adjudicates the claim.
-	LTD benefits continue until the recipient recovers, reaches retirement age, is able to engage in other gainful employment, (whichever occurs first), or dies.
-	if an employee is eligiblefor disability related benefitsfrom any other source (e.g. Canada Pension Plan disability pension), LTD benefits are adjusted so that the combined total of all disability relatedbenefits equal no more than 75% of the employee's original basic earnings.
-	no benefits are payable under the LTD program for disabilities covered by Workers' Compensation.
DENTALPLAN
Provides reimbursement of covered expenses made in accordance with the prevailing Dental Tariff in force in Saskatchewan at the time the expense is incurred, coverage is as follows:
PreventativeTreatment - including any necessary X-Rays..........100% paid by
Plan
Basic Dental- extractions, fillings, etc.......80% paid by Plan
Electives- inlays, crowns, etc..........80% paid by Plan
Dentures- new, repairs, etc.............80% paid by Plan
Orthodontia............... 50% paid by Plan - to a maximum of $1,500 per insured
individual
All dental expenses are to be paid by the employee, and reimbursed to him on the above basis by the insurance carrier.
Caution: Before starting any course of treatment in excess of $200, it is recommended that employees have their dentist prepare a "Treatment Plan", a written report describing the recommended procedure, treatment, costs, etc. The Treatment Plan can be submitted to the insurer in advance and the employee will know the expenses covered before work begins.
GROUP EXTENDED HEALTH BENEFITS
Eligible medical costs as outlined in the contract between MSI Blue Cross and PCS Inc., Allan Division will be paid at a level of 80% of allowable expenses.
The Company's responsibility is to maintain the designated level of benefit coverage, as outlined in the contract between Blue Cross (MSI) and the Company, in effect on the date of ratification.
OPTICAL PLAN
-	Employee;, their spouses, and dependent children are covered for 80% of the cost of one pair of eyeglass frames and lenses (or contact lenses) per participant during any 24 consecutive months (12 consecutive months for persons under 18 years of age). Maximum benefit will be $150 effective date of ratification.
-	Excluded are: duplicate glasses, certain plastic lenses, safety goggles, sunglasses, most tinted glasses, anti-reflective coatings, replacement of lost or stolen or broken glass or frames.
OPTIONAL INSURANCE
Employees may apply for either the optional group term life insurance and/or the voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance which is currently available. The effective date of such coverage will be as per the conditions specified in each of the plans. Premiums are paid by the employee through payroll deduction. In case of layoff or other absence without pay, premiums must be prepaid to maintain coverage.
GENERAL
The Company will continue certain benefit coverage for permanent employees, who are laid off due to inventory corrections or permanent workforce reductions, for a period of three (3) months from the date of lay-off. The Company-paid benefits that will be maintained are Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Dental and Group Extended Health Plans (including Optical).
Permanent and Temporary new hires are covered from the first day of active employment for Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment; upon completion of the probationary period they become eligible underthe Dental, Group Health and Optical Plans. Permanent hires are also eligible for the Short Term and Long Term Disability Plans upon completion of the probationary period.
Temporary employees recalled from the Recall List for temporary work will be covered by the Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Dental, Group Health and Optical Plans while at work.
'Temporaryemployees who are laid-off subsequent to completing their probationary period will continue Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismembership coveragefor aperiod of three (3) months from the date <£ layoff coverage under the Dental, GroupHealth and Opticalplans will continue to the end of the monthfollowing the month of lay-off"
Signed on behalf <± PC'S Inc.:
W, M. Peddie
Director, Industrial Relations Signed on behalf <£ PCS Inc. - ALLAN:
D,A. Weinheimer Administration Superintendent
L, S, Toth
Mine General Superintendent
K. A. Podwin
Mill General Superintendent
W. D, Walters
Human Resources Superintendent
Signed on behalf of the UNITEDSTEEL WORKERS OF AMERICA, C.L.C. and its LOCAL 7689:
B, Welke
G.A. Phillips	T, J. Loehndorf
Negotiating Committeeman	Negotiating Committeeman
MEMORANDUM OFAGREEMENT
between
PCS POTASH ■ ALLAN and
UNITED STEEL WORKERS OF AMERICA, C.L.C., DISTRICT 3, LOCAL 7689
This Memorandum of Agreement is designedfor thepurpose of re-affirmingthe basic principles of the Cooperative Wage Study Program (referred to as C, W.S.). This re-affirmation \snecessary because of recent trends within the workforce that employ eesfeel that C, W,S, is to be used as a detailed job description, used to determine one's day-to-dayj ob duties.
Thefollowingprinciples are statements citedfrom the Job Description and ClassificationManual published inAugust 1971 by the United Steelworkers of America - AFL - CIO CLC:
A.	Significant details concerningthefunction and requirements of eachjob shall be setforth in ajob description which shall:
Provide a means of identifying thejob under consideration, the processes, equipment and products with which it is concerned, and shall serve only as a basisfrom which to classify the job.
Reflect the general details considered necessary to describe theprincipalfunctions of thejob identified and shall not be construed as a detailed description of all the work requirements that may be inherent in thejob.
Provide, together with the reasons for the classification, the basisfrom which to judge changes in thejob content which may resultfrom new or changed conditions when such are establishedfrom time to time.
B,	Thejob classification of ajob shall serve only to assign thejob into aproperjob classfor application of the standard hourly wage scale.
In summary, theseprinciples outlined are designed solelyfor the purposes of determining wage rates and not toprovide any basisfor determining the day-to-dayj ob activities of any individual employee. Referring to the term ”inherent”as outlined on the bottom of eachjob description, this term is defined as: Job duties that have been common to a particular job prior to the implementationof C.W.S., whether they were specifically addressed in thejob description or not, shall continue to be part of thatparticularjob.
Signed this
day of

,2002.
PCS INC -ALLAN
UNITED STEEL WORKERSOF AMERICA, CL.C AND ITS LOCAL 7689
H. Ewaschuk /^General Manager
B. Welke
International Representative
W, D, Walters
Human Resources Superintendent
G, Field
President, Local 7689
LETTER OFAGREEMENT
EMPLOYEES ELECTING TO TAKE VACATION IN LIEU OF LAY-OFF
Theparties agree that within the limits specified below, an employee who would otherwise be on lay-off status may elect to use entitled vacation rather than be on lay-off
1.	Periods cf Vacation taken under these circumstances must be a minimum cf one(l) week.
2,	A maximum cf two (2) weeks may be taken in a Vacationyear.
3,	Vacationpay, f applicable, which matches the Vacation time will be paid when the Vacation is taken.
4.	Vacationrequests must be received by the Companyprior to theperiod requested.
Signed this
day of


j2002.
PCS INC. - ALLAN
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
C.L.CAND IPSLOCAL 7689
H, E){’aschuk General Manager
W. D, Walters
Human Resources Superintendent
B. Welke
International Representative
G. Field
President, Local 7689
MEMORANDUM OFAGREEMENT
APPRENTICESHIPS -APTITUDE TESTING
ThisAgreement outlines the basis andproceduresfor evaluatingcandidatesfor Apprenticeships at PCS Potash ■ Allan, Pursuant to the revised Appendix B, senior biddersfor Apprenticeship vacancies will be evaluated utilizing an aptitude test battery to assess theirpotentialfor successful completion of an Apprenticeship Program
1.	The evaluations will be performed by SIAST ■ Kelsey Campus or other education consulting service agreed upon by the Company and Union.
2.	AN employees who takepart in the evaluation must sign a release allowing the individual conducting the evaluation to release information to the Company and the Union. The only information to be released to the Company and the Union is whether or not the employee is deemed to have thepotential required
3.	Employees deemed not having thepotential will be given a breakdown of their evaluation in a follow-up confidential interview conducted by those responsiblefo r the evaluation, hi addition, the employee will be advised what he/she can do in order to possess the requiredpotential.
4.	The Company will not consider an employee deemed not to have the potentialforfuture re-evaluation unless satisfactory proof is supplied to the Company and the Education Consultant to demonstrate the employee has taken the necessary steps, as identified in point 3 above, to warrant a re-evaluatioiu
5.	The Company will be responsiblefor the cost of the Education Consulting Service.
Signed this______/^	day of _	___,2002.
PCS lEC. ALLAN.
GeneralManager
UNITED STEEL WORKERS OF AMERICA, C,L. C. AND ITS LOCAL 7689
B, Welke
InternationalRepresentative
W, D, Walters
Human Resources Superintendent
GC Field
President, Local 7689
MEMORANDUM OFAGREEMENT
between
PCS POTASH ■ALLAN and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, C.L.C., DISTRICT 3, LOCAL 7689 RE:	PAYROLL BUY-BACK
For approved Leaves of Absence requested underArticles 11,04 andlLOS not to exceedfourteen (14) calendar days, the Company agrees topay the employee his base wagefor the scheduled work time missed and bill the Unionfor the amount plus 10%. This is conditional upon having received a written requestfor the Leave from the Union which also states the Company is authorized to bill the Union.
~i L
Signed this	/ 3_________day of _
,2002.
PCS INC, ALLAN
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, C.L.C, AND ITS LOCAL 7689
*/ GeneralManager
B. Welke
International Representative
_______(a) /VtJ
W. D. Walters
Human Resources Superintendent
0, Field
President, Local 7689
Memorandum Of Agreement Between
Potash Corporation Of Saskatchewan Inc., Allan Division
And
United Steelworkers Of America, C.L.C, District3, Local 7689 Re:	Lay-Off Notice
This Agreement supercedes the provisions of Article 8,06 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Temporary Shutdown of Operations
When all or part of the operation is shut down for a period not exceeding sixty (60) calendar days, written notice (or pay in lieu thereof) indicating the shutdown date and start-up date shall be given as follows to all affected employees:
1.	If the shutdown is for a period of one (1) week - one (1) week’s notice;
2.	If the shutdown is for a period of two (2) weeks, or more than one (1) week - two
(2) weeks’ notice;
3.	If the shutdown is for a period of three (3)weeks, or more than two (2) weeks -
three (3)weeks’ notice;
4.	If the shutdown is for a period of four (4) weeks, or more than three (3) weeks -
four (4) weeks; notice;
5.	If the shutdown is for a period of four (4) weeks but less than sixty (60) days - four
(4) weeks’ notice.
The Vacation Maintenance Shutdown which may be designated as per Article 12.04 is not deemed a shutdown of operations for the purpose of this letter.
Indefinite Lay-off
In the event an employee is laid off for an indefinite period due to a manpower reduction or shutdown of operations for an unspecified period, written notice (or pay in lieu thereof) will be provided as follows:
1.	One (1)weeks' notice if his seniority is one (1) year or less;
2.	Two (2) weeks' notice if his seniority is one (1) year, or less than three (3)years;
3.	Four (4)weeks' notice if his seniority is three (3)years, or less than five (5)years;
4.	Six (6) weeks' notice if his seniority is five (5) years, or less than ten (10)years;
5.	Eight (8)weeks' notice if his seniority is ten (10)years or more.
The above provisions do not apply if the period of lay-off is for six (6) days or less, or if an employee is recalled for a specified, limited period of work.
It is understood and agreed that the provisions of this Agreement are better than the provisions of the law. Unless renewed by the parties, this Agreement will expire December 31st, 2002.
Signed this
13______day of___HI
2002,
PCS Potash - Allan Division
United Steelworkers of America, C.L.C., and it's Local 7689
H. Ew^schuk /^/GeneraI Manager
B, Welke
International Representative
W. D. Walters
Human Resources Superintendent
G. Field
President, Local 7689
January 11, 2002
Mr. E.Welke, International Representative United Steelworkers' of America #200 - 33aa Fairlight Drive Saskatoon, SK S7M 3Y5
Dear Mr, Welke:
Re:	Temporary Employee Issue_______
As promised, I am providing a list of employees who meet the criteria of having 2000 hours worked. They are:
Name	PresentAssianment Hours Worked to May 1st. 2001
L, Burns	Back-up Operator	2000 +
As part of the Company's offer for settlement the above employees will be classified as permanent and will be eligible for benefit coverage in the same manner as permanent employees. Any other employees hired on a Temporary basis, will also be classified as Permanent upon reaching2000 hours worked.
Yours truly,
W. D. Walters
Human Resources Superintendent
Letter of Agreement Between
Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan, Inc., Allan Division
and
United Steelworkers’ of America, CLC, Local 7689
The parties hereby agree to a Long Term Disability Plan, which will provide a total benefit payable of 50% of the employee’s base wage at the date of disability.
The program will be comprised of two plans:
Plan A
An employee paid plan at a benefit level of 37,5% of base wages and the appropriate premium for this plan will be set at 2.13% of the employee’s annual base wage. Such premiums will be deducted on a biweekly basis. This plan will be fully funded by the employee and as such, any benefits received will not be subject to Income Tax deductions. The employee is also responsible for the continuation of payment of LTD premiums while absent from work for any reason except while receiving benefits from the plan.
Plan B
An employer paid plan at a benefit level of 12,5% of base wages and the appropriate premium for this plan will be set at .72% of the employee’s annual base wage. This plan will be fully funded by the Company and as such, any benefits received will be subject to Income TcK deductions.
It is also noted that any CPP offset will be proportionately applied to both plans as outlined in the plan text.
The Company also agrees that they will continue to administer the LTD program and will continue to explore securing other insurance carriers that will provide the adjudication of claims in a timely and cost effective manner.
It is further agreed that the Company will not pursue any additional cost-sharing of other benefit plans including medical, dental, life insurance and vision care programs.
This letter supercedes the LTD plan described in the Benefit Summary of the Collective Agreement for the life of this agreement.
Note: Any employee that is currently on the Short Term Disability Plan and proceeds directly to the Long Term Disability Plan, will stay on the previous employer funded LTD plan. Any employee currently on Long Term Disability will remain on the previous plan. The premium rates, as outlined above, will be guaranteed to remain unchanged to December 31, 2003. The Company further agrees it will consult with the Union prior to any changes in the LTD premiums of the employee paid plan.
Signed this
day of
■ 2002.
United Steelworkers of America C.L.C.	Potash Corporation of Saskatchewanlnc.,
C.L.C. and it’s Local 7689	Allan Division
B. Welke	H. Ew^schuk
International Representative	,&/General Manager
G. Fiefd
President, local 7689
W. D. Walters
Human Resources Superintendent
January 11, 2002
Mr. Glen Field, President
Dear Glen:
Re:	Temporary Supervisors
The Company will apply the following concepts/procedures regarding employees of the
Bargaining Unit who are acting as Temporary Supervisors:
1.	The Company will ensure the crew members are aware of the fact they will have a Temporary Supervisor.
2.	The Company agrees to notify the Union of any bargaining unit employees who are deemed qualified to act as Temporary Supervisor.
3.	If overtime is required on any given day, an employee who has been acting as a Temporary Supervisor that day will not be offered the overtime until all other employees who normally would be offered the overtime have been canvassed.
4.	When a Temporary Supervisor is required, the appointment will be for a full shift except when the regular Supervisor/Control Room Foreman needs to be replaced for a shorter period due to illness, meetings, training and investigations. The upgrade rate will be paid for the full shift regardless of the duration of the assignment.
Yours truly,
W. D. Walters
Human Resources Superintendent
January 14, 2002
Mr. Glen Field President, Local 7689 U.S.W.A., C.L.C.
Dear Glen:
This is to confirm the following item was discussed and agreed upon during the 2000 -2002 negotiations:
The Company and Union recognize that in the event of a permanent downsizing of the workforce the provisions of Article 8.05 (d) will have to be modified to reflect the principle that general seniority will be given consideration provided the affected employees can become qualified with a reasonable trial and training period.
Yours truly,
W. D. Walters
Human Resources Superintendent
January 11, 2002
Mr. Glen Field President, Local 7689 United Steelworkers of America C.L.C. c/o PCS Potash - Allan Division Allan, SK SOK OCO
Dear Glen:
This letter is to advise that effective January 25th, 2002, the Corporation will increase the Return to Work Bonus from the current $600 per week for the first two weeks in any calendar year to $650 perweek.
Further, any additional weeks of lay-off in that same calendar year will be increased from $200 to $250 perweek.
W. M. Peddie
Director, Industrial Relations
Letter of Agreement Senior Employees Electing Lay-Off
The parties agree that there are certain circumstances where a senior employee will be
allowed to elect lay-off during an Inventory Correction Period:
1.	The specified period of lay-off for the employee must be the entire length of the shutdown, or a combination of vacation and lay-off may be used to cover the entire period.
2.	There must be a junior qualified employee in the same classification or line of progression willing to replace the senior employee without the need for training.
3.	An employee cannot elect lay-off under this Agreement if, after the shutdown, he will have more than 80 hours of unused vacation entitlement.
4.	An employee who elects lay-off (or his replacement) may not submit a grievance regarding his decision to elect lay-off.
Signed this
_______day of
2002
PCS Potash- Allan Division	United Steelworkers of America,
C.L.C., and it’s Local 7689
H. Ewaschuk /^iaeneral Manager
B. Welke
International Representative
W. D. Walters
Human Resources Superintendent
G. Field
President, Local 7689
SUBJECT INDEX	ARTICLE	PAGE
Apprenticeship............................... Appendix B&C	38-39
Arbitration...................................... 6.01	7
Day.......................................... 14,02 to 14.06	24 -25
Departments...................................... 8.15	14
Discharge........................................ 5,01	7
Callout......................................... 14.09	25
COLA............................................ 22.03	32
Clothing & Boot Allowance....................... 21.04	32
C.W.S, (Effective Jan. 11, 1981)............. 19.00	29 -31
Dues............................................ 16.02	28
Filling a Temporary Vacancy...................... 8.11	14
Filling a Permanent Vacancy...................... 8.12	14
Grievance- Definition............................ 4.01	4
-	Stages.................................. 4.05	5
Immediate Family................................ 11.06	18
Job Posting...................................... 8.17	15
Jury& Witness Duty.............................. 11.07	19
Layoffs.......................................... 8.04	10
Leave of Absence................................ 11.01	17
Lines of Progression......................... Exhibits A-G	36 - 43
Lunch Breaks.................................... 14.11	26
Management Rights............................ 1.02	3
Meals - Overtime................................ 14,12	26
Overtime........................................ 14,04	24
Probationary Employees........................... 9,01	16
Public Holidays.............................. 13.01 to 13.08	23 -24
Qualifying on the Job............................ 8.13	14
Recall....................................... 8,05	10-14
SafetyTours.................................. 15.02	27 -28
Schedules - Change.............................. 14.07	25
-	Posted................................. 14.14	26
Seniority- Definition........................ 8.02	10
-	Lists............................... 8,16	15
-Loss Of................................... 8.03	10
Stewards......................................... 4.03	4
Temporary Vacancy............................ 8.09	13
Time Off with Pay............................ 11.06	18-19
Tools........................................ 21.01 to 21.03	31 -32
Training..................................... 8.10 & 8.11	13-14
Transfer......................................... 8.07	& 8,08	13
Transfer out of Bargaining Unit.................. 8.15	14
Vacations.................................... 12,01 to 12.10	21-22
Wage Differentials.............................. 22,01	to 22.03	32
TEN COMMANDMENTS OF SAFETY
1.	You are responsible for yourself and the safety of others working with you.
2.	Know the rules of safety that apply to your job.
3.	THINK AHEAD - “What can happenthat may cause an accident?
4.	Review the safety aspect of your job with Supervisors and co-workers before starting work.
5.	Follow the Supervisors instructions at all times with regard to safety on the job.
6.	Make use of safeguards that are provided for your protection.
7.	Demonstrate safety in your work habits and personal conduct.
8.	Report all injuries to your Supervisor. Give all details.
9.	Co-operate fully with those who are concerned with your safety.
10.	REMEMBER: Not only does accident prevention reduce human suffering and loss of life and limb, it is good business. SAFETY is one of your prime obligations -to your family, your fellow man and your employer.
NEAR ACCIDENTS ARE WARNINGS