SOURCE				
EFF..	To		or	Ol
TERM.	9		12.	3/
No. Of EMPLOYEES		75		
NOMJRE D'cMPLOyIs		JIJL,		
AGREEMENT
between
CONNORS DRILLING LTD and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7288
Effective:	January 1 , 1 990 t o
December 31,1991
SCR 2 3 193C
OQ2.4%3f
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1 0
1 1
1 2
1 3
14
1 5
1 6
1 7
1 8
2
2
3
4
5
5
7
1 1
1 1
1 2
13
1 4
1 4
1 4
15
1 5
INDEX
Definition and Recognition..................
Term of Agreement...........................
Management..................................
No Discrimination...........................
Shifts a'nd Working Hours...................
Overtime....................................
Safety Devices..............................
Statutory Holidays .........................
Grievance &Arbitration Procedure. •	.	.	.
Group Insurance Plan .......................
Leave of Absence for Union Business. .	.	.
Wages.......................................
Annual Vacation.............................
Bulletin Boards.............................
Union Security..............................
Union Membership............................
Townsite Northern Allowance.................
Promotions, Transfers. Lay-offs & Rehiring
ARTICLE 1
This Agreement made this 9 day of February, 1990
Between
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7288 Yel lowknife, in the Northwest Territories, Canada (hereinafter cat led "theUnion")
party of the first part
and
CONNORS DRILLING LTD.
(hereinafter called " the Com p a n y " )
party of the second part
WHEREAS it is the desire of the Company and the Union to promote and maintain harmonious industrial relations between the Company and its employees.
Now, therefore, th i s agreement witnesses that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
DEFINITION AND RECOGNITION
The company agrees to recognizeand bargain with the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency for those employees of the Company in the Northwest Territories working as' diamond drll 1 runners, diamond drill helpers, excluding shop employees, camp staff, office staff, foremen and persons above the rank of foreman. The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agency for the said empl oyeeswith respect to rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment.
ARTICLE 2
TERM OF AGREEMENT
2
2.01	This Agreement shall remain in effect for twenty- four (24) months from its effective date, t he 1 st d av of January 1990to December 31, 1991 .
2.02	Either party may, within a period of three (3) months immediately preceding December 31, 1991, by notice in writing, require the other party to commence collective bargaining.
ARTICLE	3	MANAGEMENT
3.00	The Union recogn I zes t h e right of the Company to operate and manage its business in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities, and to make and vary from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by employees, providing the rules and regulations are not in confllctwith the provisions of the agreement.
3.01	Nothing in this Agreement shall obllgethe Company continue to carry on operations which it may from time to time decide to discontinue, the Company to notify the Union within twenty-four (24) hours of its receiving notice of cancellation or discontinuance of any underground operation.
3.02	The Company reserves the right to hire, discipline, demote or discharge employees for proper cause.
3.03	The selection of the working bosses and all other supervisory employees shal I be entirely a matter for the decision of the Company.
3.04	The Company will furnish monthly to the Union a list showing new hires (including home addresses), transfers, promotions, demotions, layoffs, recalls and terminations of employment during the previous month and the effective dates. Copies of these lists
wi I I be forwarded to the Union by the 15thday of the following month.
ARTICLE 4	DISCRIMINATION
4.00	The company and the Union agree that there
shal I be no intimidation or discrimination because of membership or n o n - m e m b e r s h i p in the Union, or because of race, creed,. colour, national origin or political beliefs.
ARTICLE 5 5.00
5.01
5.02
5.03
3
SHIFTS AND WORKING HOURS
Hours of Work
The operations of the Company shal I be deemed to f-a I I into two (2 ) c a t e g o r i e s , namely Underground and Surface operations.
Underground:	In al I underground operations,
eight (8) hours work from collar to collar shall constitute a day's working shift.
Surface:	In al I surface operations, eight (8)
hours work at the drill site shall constitute a day's working shift.
Four Hours’ Pav
Any employee who reports for work on his regular shift and was not told in advance not to report wl I I be guaranteed four (4) hour’s pay at his regular hourly rate.
Al so, an emp I oyee who commences work and is laid1 off before completing four (4 ) h o u r ' s work shal I be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at his basic hourly rate.
Temporary Change of Occupation
An employee shall not refuse to perform work which is outside his classification, but for any such work, he shall be paid a higher rate of pay if the work he performs is of a higher classification than his normal work and shall not, in any event, be paid a lower hourly rate than. his standard classification.
Shift Differential
A premium of fifty ( 50 ) c e n t s per hour shall be paid to all employees who are working a shift other than the normal day shift.
For the purpose of applying this premium rate, the expression “regular day shift” shal I have the meaning attributed to it in accordance with the Company's present practice.
ARTICLE 6 6.00
6.01
6.02
4
The Company w! I I pay the above mentioned shift premium as a separate allowance based on the hours worked for those shifts other than the normal day shift.
OVERTIME
In al I underground operations, al I work performed in excess of eight (8)hours in any one, twenty-four (24) hour period or forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) times the basic rate.
In al I surface operations, al I work performed in excess of eight (8 ) h o u r s in any one day or forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) times the basic rate (except when an employee works over eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) h o u r period due to regularchange of shifts).
(a)	One and one-half (11/21 times the’
basic rate will be paid for all work performed on a Saturday or Sunday regardless of the hours worked or days worked previous to Saturday or Sunday, if such days are scheduled overtime days.
In the case of an employee' kept underground after the expiration of the regular shift due to causes over which he has no control, such time shall be considered as hours worked (straight time) if the period exceeds thirty (30) minutes provided that such time shall not be considered as time worked if the cause is beyond the control of the Company.
ARTICLE 7
SAFETY DEVICES
7.00
ARTICLE 8
8.00
Gogglesand any other safety equipment considered necessary by the company to protect employees from injury shall be supplied by the Company. The Company to pay one-half (1/2) the cost of underground boots, hard hats and gloves for underground workers. The Company agrees to pay the cost of slickers for those employees working underground who require slickers, providing that when a new set of slickers I s required,the employee may be required to produce the set which is being discarded. Second or later issues’ wl I I not be supp I iedotherwise than through reasonable wear and tear. The Company to supply at no cost to the employee, degree rule, crescent wrench and 9/16 wrench. Old or worn tools to be turned in for replacement.
Provide, that where solutions are used, the Company wl I I furnish slicker pants and rubber gloves, if these are required in the discretion of the foreman.
The Company and the employees shal I co-operate in matters pertaining to safety.
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Work Performed on a Statutory. Holiday
Should an employee be required to work on any of the fol lowing days, namely:
New year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day
Miner's Day (2nd Monday in June)
Dominion Day
First Monday in August
Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day
Remembrance Day
Chr i s+mas Day
Boxing Day
6
he shall be paid for work so performed at the rate of one and one-half (11/2)times his applicable hourly rate.
In addition to the above-named holidays, each employee shall be entitled to two (2)floating statutory holidays duringeach calendar year that he is in the Company's employ, which shall be taken at a time which is suitable to both the Company and the employee. To qualify for the floating statutory holidays, an employee must have at least sixty (60) days service with the Company immediately prior to t h e holiday. In the event that an employee has applledfor a floating statutory holiday at least thirty (30) d a y s prior to the end of the calendar year and no mutually suitable date has been established before the end of the year, he shall receive a day's pay in lieu thereof.
8.01	Qualification for Statutory Ho I 1 day ( n o t
worked)
Except as hereinafter provided, an employee who does not work on one (1)of the statutory holidays referred to above, shall be paid his applicablehourly rate for eight (8) hours for the day:
(a)	while on vacation
(b)	on approved leave of absence, including leave on Union business;
(c)	while absent through sickness or accident provided that the employee has a Doctor's certificate to that effect, and
(c) death in the immediate family (immediate family shal I mean: spouse, father, mother, son and daughter ).
8.02
8.03
ARTICLE 9 9.00
9.01
7
An employee shall not be paid for the statutory holiday in Section 8.01 if he is absent. from work on his last regularly scheduled shift before, or his' first regularly scheduled shift after such ho I Iday, o r if he has been assigned or scheduled to work and does not work on such holiday.
An employee who qua I if lesfor both the statutory holiday pay (expressed in Sections
8.01	and 8.02) and for pay for performing work on a statutory holiday, shall be entitled to a total of two and one half (2 1/2)times his applicablerate of pay for eight (8) hours of the day. VIZ:	Eight (8) hours straight time
pay for qualified statutory holiday plus one and one-half (11/21 times his applicable rate actual I y worked on the statutory holiday hut works the statutory holiday, he shal I then be paid one and one-half (1 1/21 times his hourly rate of pay only .
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
Complaint
Employees may discuss any complaint with shift bosses or foremen so that Itmay be settled as quickly as possible. However, should any d i f ferencearise between the Company and the Union or any employee or employees concerning the interpretation or violation of this Agreement, the parties shal I endeavour to settle such differences without undue delay in the fol lowing manner:
Grievance - Staae One
The employee concerned, in person and if he desires, with his shop steward in attendance, shall try to settle the difference with his immediate boss. If the employee has reasonable access to a steward, the grievance shal I be taken up with the immediate boss, not more than five (5) days after it has arisen, but if there is no steward reasonably aval I able to the employee, then the grievance shall be raised at the first reasonable opportunity.
Grievance - Stage Two
8 -
9.02
The Union orthe employee concerned, accompanied by his steward, if an employee desires, may submit the dispute to the Yellowknife Manager of the Company and the submission and the decision at this Stage wil I be in writing.
Failing satisfactory settlement of the grievance within five (5) days, the matter may be referred to 'arbitration within twen+y-one(21) additional days as herein provided.
9 • 03	Difference between Company and Union
If a difference arises between the Union and the Company concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement or the discharge of an employee, then the matter may be taken up between the union and the management of the company at Stage Two.
Failing satisfactory agreement, either party may notify the other in writing within twenty-one (21 ) days that it desires to refer the matter to arbitration and an arbitrator shall then be selected as set forth below and the difference shall be submitted in writing to the Arbitrator and the Arbitrator's decision shall be confined to determining the issues therein set out and shall be final and binding upon the parties.
9.04	Stage three - Procedure for Settling Disputes
Fail inga satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days pfter the dispute was submitted under Stage Two, the Union may, upon giving seven (7 ) d a y s notice inwriting to the company of their intention, refer the dispute to arbitration. Within ten (10)days following receipt of such notice, the Company and the Union will select one Arbitrator from the following panel of arbitrators:
1.	Gordon Carter
2.	G. Hawko
9
The selection of the Arbitrator shal I commence with the next name on the panel following the name of the Arbitrator who last served the parties in the previous arbitration. If an Arbitrator is unable to serve, then the next Arbitrator on the panel shall be selected, etc., until an Arbitrator indicates his avail abil ityto act. If an Arbitrator on the panel is permanently unable to serve, then the parties shall jointly select a replacement. If the parties cannot mutually agree upon an Arbitrator within ten ( t 0) d a y s , the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour of Canada upon request of either party.
The decision of the Arbitrator is respect of an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, shall be final and binding upon the parties, but in no event shall the Arbitrator have the power to alter, modify or amend this agreement in any respect. The parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the arbitrator.
The arbitrator shal I hear and determine the difference or al legation and shall, within a maximum of thirty ( 30 ) d a y s following arbitration, render his decision.
A written record of the grievance presented at Stage Two and the decision of that Stage wil I be presented to the Arbitrator, and the Arbitrator's decision shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
When making his decision, the Arbitrator shall state whether the decision is retroactive and effective date thereof, but the decision shall not be made retroactive to a time prior to the date of this agreement and there shall be no award of costs ;ofarbitration to either party.
1
0
9.05
Stewards
(a)	Stewards chosen by the Union must be employees of the Company. The duties of the stewards shall be to receive, investigate and endeavour to settle grievances as outlined in this Article.
(b)	There shall be a grievance committee consisting of not more than five (5) stewards.
(c)	The Union agrees to notify the Company in wr i-l-i ng of the names of the stewards and the names of the Grievance Committee, and of any changes which may be made from time to time. The Company shallnot be required to recogntzethe stewards of the grievance committee until it has been notified in 'writing by the Union, the names of the persons selected.
(d)	Authorizedtime spent in investigating and settlingdisputes by employees delegated by stewards shall be considered as time worked, and payment shall be on the basis of straight time, under no condition shall overtime be paid. The time to be paid for shall be limited to five (5) hours per month.
ARTICLE
10.00
10.01
ARTICLE
11.00
1 1
10 - GROUP INSURANCE PLAN
During the I f fe of this agreement, the Company will maintain a sickness and accident policy providing for a $60,000death benefit including a double indemnity provision for non-occupational accidental death. Weekly indemnity for a twenty-six (26) week period for injuries or sickness (arising from non-occupational accidents) will be paid in accordance with the following schedule.
January 1,1990 -$450.00 per week
payable from the first day for non-occupational accident, payab I e from the fifth (5th)day for non-hospital Ized sickness and payable from the first day if admitted to the hospital for sickness.
Employees must have worked thirty (30)shifts before he qualifies for coverage,
The cost of these benefits shal I be paid 100% by the Company.
Dental PI an
The Company wl I I provide, at Company expense PI an "A" Dental Plan which wll I provide for the payment of 100^of the basic services ( 1 e . , extractions, fillings, cleaning, fluoride, x-rays, etc.) for employees and their dependents.
The Company wi I I provide on a 50/6cost share basic-Plan "B” Dental Plan.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS
Any empl oyee selected as a delegate or representative of the Union, necessitating leave of absence, upon proper application to the Company, shall be granted such leave of absence without pay, provided it does not exceed a period of one (1 ) year.
1 1 .01
11.02
11.03
11.04
ARTICLE 1 2
1 2
Time spent as a delegate or representative of the Union shall not in any way Jeopardize his seniority, but shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining vacation.
The Company sha I I not be required to grant the privilege ;under this Article to more than one (1) person at the same time.
Section 1 1 . 0 1 a n d 1 1 .02 s h a I i not apply to delegates actual I y attending a- I abour convention, labour arbitrations, labour contract negotiations or grievance matters set forth in this agreement.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article to the contrary, the Company shall not be obliged to grant leave of absence to more than one (1 ) employee during any calendar year for the purpose of attending a labour convention.
WAGES
The scale of wages in effect during the life of t h ! s A g r e e m e n t for Underground and Surface Drillers shall be as follows:
January 1,1990- Underground & Surface
Driller - $17.00 per hour Helper - $1 4.50 p e r hour
January 1,1991- Subject to wage re-opener.
ARTICLE 13- ANNUAL VACATION
1 3
13.00
13.01
13.02
13.03
13.04
The vacation year will be from January 1st through December 31s+of each year, inclusive.
Eligibility for vacation will be determined continuous service with anniversary (hire) date.
time off and for pay by the employee's the Company and his
Any employee on the payroll during the current vacation year, and who has the length of continuous service specified in the table below, shall be entitled to the corresponding vacation with pay:
Up to 1 2 months service 12 months but less than months service -18 months but less than months service -24 months to 10 years sc 10 years A over service
	1	week -	5%
18	2	weeks -	6%
24	3	weeks -	1%
r v i c e	3	weeks -	8 %
	4	weeks -	1 0%
Vacation pay will be calculated up to the day he leaves on vacation, and said pay will be based on total earnings. Vacation pay earned but not pa id at the end of the vacation year wll I be paid to the employee at the end of the vacation year (December ).
The Company will be the final judge of vacation time, but vacations will be granted as closely as practicable to the time requested by the employee. When requested by the employee, in writing and when practicable, one (1 ) week extra vacation wl I I be granted without pay, provided it is taken along with his regular approved vacation. Vacations or the on-regular vacations and the one (1 ) week extra vacation is not accumulative.
Al I employees with one ( 1 ) y e a r service or more shall be entitled to a premium of ten dollars ($10.00) per day In accordance with his vacation schedule, payable once a year.
1 4
ARTICLE 1 4 - BULLET IN BOARDS
14.00	At the request ofthe Union, the Company wil I provide a bulletin board in the Company office at Yellowknife for the posting of notices of Un ion meetings, social affairs and other Union notices of a non-controversial nature.
ARTICLE 15 - UNION SECURITY
15.00	The Company shall, during the term ofthe agreement, honora written request by an employee for the deduction and remittance of dues, fees and assessments (excluding fines), payable to the Union if the order is substantial lyin the form set out in Schedule "A" hereto and is signed by the employee.
15.01	The Companyshall remit to the Union monthly, the sums so deducted together with a written statement showing the names of the employees from who the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
15.02	The Company shallnot be obligedto deduct and remit the said sums, unless it has on hand, wages which would otherwise be paid to the employee.
15.03	As a condition of employment, the Company shall deduct from al I present and future employees, union dues as set by the United Steelworkers of America, and communicated to the Company in the form set out in Schedule *'A" her eto .
ARTICLE -	UNION MEMBERSHIP
16.00	All present employees and all employees hired
after the effective date of this agreement, or thirty (30) days after their hire, whichever is later, shall be required, as a condition of employment, to become and remain members of the Union through December 31,1991
1 5 -
16.01	Where the Union requests action by the Company
in respect to an employee who has failed to maintain membership in the Union in good standing, the Union shall furnish to the Company written proof of such failure to maintain membership.
ART IC LE 17- TOWNS ITE NORTHERN ALLOWANCE
17.00	For an employee who maintains a residence in
the Ye I I owknl fe area, the following al lowance will be paid:
Effective January 1, 1990 the Northern living allowance will be:
$35.00 per shift worked for married employees $30.00 per shift worked for single employees
ART IC LE 18- TRANSPORTAT ION
The Company has the right to deduct transportation expenses from an employees payroll if that employee does not fullflllhis contract duration. Contract duration will be either project completion or 21 shifts for one way costs and 42 shifts for return costs. Five shifts will be considered adequate notice of an employees desire to leave a project.
ART ICLE 19 - PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS, LAY-OFFS AND REHIRING
19.00	The Company recognizesthe principal of
seniority in promotions, transfers, lay-offs and rehiring and in these matters, the following factors shal I govern:
(a)	The length of continuous service with the Company
(b)	Ability, knowledge, dependability, training, skill and efficiency of the employee to do the work.
Where a bona fide Judgement of the Company, factor (b)is to al I intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, seniority shal I govern.
1 6
19.01
19.02
19.03
19.04
The Company recod nIzes d a t e of hire with predecessor Company's (seniority) for the purpose of calculating vacations and transportation al lowance.
An employee shal I lose al Iseniority if he:
(a)	voluntarily quits;
(b)	i s justifiably discharged
An employee is considered a probationary employee for the first forty-five (45) days of his employment and shall not have seniority rights under this agreement and may be discharged by the Company at its discretion during that per tod. Notwithstanding the above, if the Company does discharge an employee during this probate period, the emp I oyee may, if he desires, be represented by the Union in presenting his case to the Company. If the Company conftrmsthe discharge of the probationary employee, it shall not be a matter for grievance under this Agreement.
If the Company sees fit to continue the employment of a probationary employee after the end of forty-five (45 ) d a y s of service, his name shall be placed on the seniority list as of the begin.ningof such forty-five (45) days continuous service.
The Company expressly reserves the right to employ technically trained men and students in reasonable numbers from time to time and to
transfer see fit, laid off student, laid off,
and promote them providing that no or discharged to or in the case of refuse rehire.
as the Company may employee shall be make place for a employees already
1 7
19.05
19.06
19.07
19.08
A person originally rehired by the Company to exercise a special trade or skill or to participate in a particular assignment of work, may be discharged when his employment at such special trade, skill or particular assignment comes to an end, notwithstanding anything in this agreement to. the contrary.
This agreement shall not deprive the Company of the right to select its employees or to discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
When prac + lcab I e, having regard to the time when a job is to be fi I led, the Company will post jobs available so that employees may have the opportunity of applying for the job and a copy of the posting wl I I be sent to the Union.
For the sake of clarity, it is understood that the Company does not recogn I ze departmental seniority.
18
ON BEHALF OF CONNORS DRILLING LTD
ON BEHALF OF
UN I TED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 7288, thereof, in Yellowknife, in the Northwest Territories, Canada.
B e r n i e We Ike
Staff Representative