2015-2018
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
COMPASS MINERALS CANADA CORP. Goderich, Ontario Goderich Mine
AND
UNIFOR UNION LOCAL 16-0 Goderich, Ontario
Company	Union
Date
if
Date
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
COMPASS MINERALS CANADA CORP, having operations at 300 North Harbour Road, Goderich, Ontario, N7A 3Y9, hereinafter referred to as the “Company”
and
UNIFOR UNION Local 16-0, located at Goderich, Ontario, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”.
Company
> U
Date

Date
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE
1.01a) The Company and the Union have entered into this Agreement at Goderich, Ontario, for the purpose of recording terms and conditions of employment, resulting from collective bargaining which are to be observed by the parties hereto. It is their desire to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to settle all differences in an amicable manner as herein provided, and to work together to achieve the most efficient operation of the plant and to promote the safety and health of the employees.
b)	The rights, terms, and conditions of employment in this Agreement will not be modified in any manner unless mutually agreed upon by the parties. In addition, the Company shall not exercise any of its Company Rights in any manner that is in conflict with this Agreement.
1.02	There shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint, coercion, harassment, or intimidation by the Company or the Union against any hourly or salaried employee because of membership in the Union, age, race, religion, colour, sex, sexual preference, marital status, ancestry, or nationality.
Company
Union
Date ^


Date
ARTICLE 2 SCOPE
2.01	The Company recognizes Unifor Local 16-0 and its properly appointed executive as the sole Bargaining Agent of the employees covered by this Agreement. The rights, terms and conditions of this Agreement apply to Bargaining Unit employees unless stipulated otherwise.
2.02	The following employees are excluded from the bargaining unit:
•	All office staff including executive, managerial, sales, engineering, laboratory, accounting, coordinator and clerical.
•	All Supervisory employees and all employees above the rank of supervisor.
•	Security guards to protect the property of the Company.
•	All part time and any temporary employees who have not completed the probationary period described in Clause 6.01. Such employees shall be subject to equivalent provisions to those provided by Article 5 (check-off) Article 13 (hours of work and overtime) Article 14 (rates of pay) Article 15 (mine holidays) and Article 18 (bereavement leave). It is understood that such employees shall be released before any regular employees are laid off and no new employees will be hired under this Clause if any regular employee is on layoff.
2.03	Supervisory employees shall not do work which is customarily performed by members of the bargaining unit. This does not apply when the supervisor is engaged in any of the following:
•	Training an employee in a manner, which does not supersede or preclude established training.
•	Conducting work of a research and development nature.
•	In emergencies, for the safety and health of employees or the protection of Company Property.
2.04	Security guards shall not do work which is customarily performed by members of the bargaining unit.
2.05	Except as provided in Clause 2.02 above, this Agreement shall not apply to probationary employees. It is understood and agreed that the termination of any such employee shall not constitute a difference between the parties and as such shall not be the subject matter of a grievance.
t|KZ-
Page 1 of 3
2.06 The following departments are recognized:
•	Mining
•	Surface Operations
•	Surface Maintenance
•	Underground Maintenance
2.07	With the work force available, normal maintenance, mining, hoisting, and shipping work which has been done regularly by the Company’s own employees will continue to be done by such employees.
New construction, installation, warranty work, capital project work (See Note Below) as agreed to by the parties, modification of equipment, major repairs, major maintenance, and major overhaul work which has been done regularly by the Company’s own employees will continue to be done by such employees.
The Company agrees that all work will be offered to bargaining unit members unless it is capital project work (See Note Below) as agreed to by the parties. The Company is committed to providing training to its own employees to reduce the use of outside contractors.
The Company will not cause any of its own employees to suffer any loss of hours of work or pay including overtime and mine holiday work (as described in applicable procedures and guidelines), to be laid off, demoted, terminated or transferred by bringing in outside contractors. The Company will also ensure that the use of outside contractors does not hinder any existing and/or the creation of any future posted job positions by bringing in outside contractors.
To ensure bargaining unit growth is not restricted, the Company is committed to ensure the hiring of additional full time bargaining unit employees to maintain adequate manpower levels appropriate to the mine to reduce the use of outside contractors.
Under currently agreed to Overtime/Mine Holiday Procedures & Guidelines, the Company is committed to the use of its own qualified employees, including other volunteers on all departmental weekly overtime/mine holiday sign-up lists ahead of bringing in outside contractors.
The Company agrees to no open ended contracts and, the Company further agrees that no outside contractor employee will be utilized to the extent of being established as a permanent residential contractor.
The parties understand that contractor use is restricted to supplementing the existing work force under temporary conditions when extra work is required or the expertise is not available and all internal avenues have been exhausted. If it becomes necessary to contract out work, the Company will discuss with the Union all work that has the potential to be contracted out and alternative solutions to out-sourcing prior to the work being performed.
Page 2 of 3
The Company will normally provide three (3) days written notification of the reasons for such contracting out to a designated representative of the Union prior to the work being performed. If time does not permit, the Company shall notify a Union official and follow with the written notification. In the written notification, the Company will give the name of the contractor, the approximate number of personnel involved, the approximate duration, the job to be performed, the shift schedule, and the hours of work to be performed.
An e-mail will be sent to the “contracting out” distribution list. The purpose of the notification of a contract is to ensure that the workplace parties are aware of what work is being contracted.
NOTE: With regard to “Capital Project Work”; in the event of the parties not reaching an agreement as stipulated above, the Company may proceed in contracting out such work, the Union may further pursue such matters through the grievance/arbitration process.
2.08	To ensure that maintenance department employees are focused on performing maintenance and repair work related to their trade and, to ensure surface operations department work and underground mining department work is not being performed by maintenance department employees, the Company agrees that maintenance department employees will follow the mutually agreed to “Maintenance Employees Operating Equipment Guidelines”, unless mutually agreed upon otherwise by the parties.
Maintenance department employees will not be permitted to perform any job duties associated with the surface operations department and the underground mining department. Maintenance department employees shall be permitted to utilize equipment in the performance of their core duties.
In order to consider seniority when assigning tasks, maintenance department employees will submit their specific job interests in order of priority, which will be used by the supervisor for daily job assignments, realizing that at all times their choice(s) may not transpire.
Company
Union
Date

Page 3 of 3
ARTICLE 3 COMPANY RIGHTS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function and right of the Company to:
a)	Operate and manage its business in all respects, except where any right to do so has been specifically restricted by the terms of this Agreement;
b)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
c)	make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, provided such rules and regulations are not inconsistent with this Agreement;
d)	schedule the production;
e)	direct the working force, hire, promote, demote, transfer, layoff because of lack of work, recall, discipline, suspend and discharge for just cause all employees, provided that claims of discriminatory promotions, demotion, or transfer and wrongful or unjust discipline or discharge shall be subject to the grievance procedure herein provided;
f)	subject to Clause 3.02 below, incorporate all manner of technical and process improvements.
3.02	Technological change is defined as the introduction of new technology into the operation or the automation of an activity, which results in a significant change in the method of operating the business. It does not include such things as a change in the volume or timing of business or the routine replacement of equipment.
The Company agrees to notify the Union of pending technological change, at the earliest practical date which will permit a meaningful discussion of the impact of the change on the operation and the workforce. Such discussion shall include the following:
• the probable effective date;	>
[kKZ^.
Page 1 of 2
•	the approximate number and classification of employees to be affected, if any;
•	the approximate number of jobs to be abolished and/or created, if any;
•	any change in the terms, conditions or security of employment.
It is understood and agreed that any new or significantly changed job created by the technological change will be posted in accordance with Clause 6.05.
If the technological change creates a permanent reduction in the number of employees at the operation, the reduction shall be effected in accordance with the terms of Letter of Understanding #6.
Company
Union
Date ^
Date

Page 2 of 2
ARTICLE 4
UNION RECOGNITION
4.01	The Company recognizes the Union, during the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, as the exclusive representatives of the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to hours of work, rates of pay and other conditions of employment, as set forth in this Agreement and, as may transpire during and throughout the term of the Agreement.
4.02	All employees shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union upon completion of their probationary period, maintaining such membership in good standing for the duration of this Agreement.
4.03	The Company agrees to make available to the President and other Union Officials, office space equipped with a desk, chairs, telephone and filing cabinet, located on surface, for the purpose of dealing with complaints or grievances arising out of the administration of the Agreement or individual employee problems arising out of their employment with the Company. Consistent with the provisions of Clause 1.01 of the Agreement, the Union agrees to meet with the Company at a mutually agreed upon time to address matters of importance to the Company and the Union.
4.04	The Company will advise the Union in advance, whenever a member of the bargaining unit is requested to participate in the evaluation of new equipment or methods. No bargaining unit employee will participate in any activity or function which is reserved to the Union under Clause 4.01 or current employment legislation without the express permission of the Union.
4.05	The Company will provide the Union with up to one (1) hour during the employees regular scheduled working hours, at a mutually agreed time, to meet with new employees during their orientation process.
4.06	The Company agrees that if the Local Union President, Vice President, Treasurer, Chief Stewards (3), Recording Secretary, Sergeant at Arms, Occupational Health and Safety Certified Representative, WSIB Representative, or Shift Stewards (4) wishes to trade shifts with himself to attend the monthly Union General Meeting, they shall be accommodated.
Page 1 of 3
4.07	Should the Company decide to sell or merge in part or in full, any part of the Compass Minerals Canada Corp. Goderich Salt Mine with any other Company or entity, the parties agree that the expressed rights contained in this Collective Agreement shall remain in full force until this Agreement expires as in Clause 22.01 and shall not be altered in any manner until the parties negotiate a new Agreement as in Clause 22.02.
4.08	The Union President will be accommodated full time in the union office on a paid Monday to Friday, straight day’s (# 2) eight (8) hour shift schedule. The Union President’s daily shift schedule start time shall begin at 6:00 AM. The Union President may request a different shift schedule start time between the hours of 6:00 AM and 8:00 AM with prior notification to a Human Resources representative. It is understood and agreed that any such request from the Union President to change his shift schedule start time will not be unreasonably denied.
The Union President’s hourly rate of pay will be paid the top rate of Monday to Friday in Schedule “A”. The Union President’s granted yearly office hours are based on the accumulation of two-thousand and eighty (2080) paid hours per calendar year.
The Union President’s vacation may be taken at any time during the vacation year and, any such vacation weeks utilized will not affect or impact any other groups’ vacation allotment entitlement. In addition, floaters and lieu days shall be scheduled in the same manner as vacation.
In the event of a layoff and/or recall, it is understood and agreed that the Union President will be the last employee in the bargaining unit to be laid off and the first employee in the bargaining unit to be recalled. This provision shall apply to the Vice-President in the event he is acting in the capacity as designate of the Union President.
4.09	If the Union President decides to designate another person to work his hours,
the designate employee’s Superintendent must be consulted for approval prior to establishing the designation. It is understood that such designation is subject to the efficient operation of the business and allocation of skills. It is understood and agreed that those persons who are approved as a designate for the Union President shall be paid top rate in Schedule “A” while working such hours.	*
Page 2 of 3
4.10	In addition to granted time specifically identified in this Agreement, the Company will provide the Union with up to an additional two thousand and five hundred (2500) paid hours at the employee’s posted rate per calendar year for union business.
4.11	The Company agrees to provide the Union with one (1) permanent reserved parking spot and one (1) temporary parking spot that can be requested as required in close proximity to the union office, as long as parking is available on-site for employees.
Company
Union
y y/jr-arj/S Date	^
Page 3 of 3
ARTICLE 5 CHECKOFF
5.01	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to levy initiation fees and dues.
5.02	Upon receipt of written authorization from the Union, the Company agrees to deduct from the pay of employees covered by this Agreement, initiation fees and regular bi-weekly union dues during the term of this Agreement.
5.03	The Company shall remit to the Union bi-weekly, the initiation fees and regular monthly dues deducted together with a written statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
Company
Union
Date
ARTICLE 6 SENIORITY
6.01	Seniority shall be determined by an employee’s length of service in the bargaining unit. A new employee shall be considered probationary, without seniority until he has accumulated seven-hundred and twenty (720) hours (inclusive of all overtime work and mine holiday work) of employment. Thereafter, his seniority shall date back to his first date of hire within the previous twelve (12) months. After two-hundred and forty (240) hours of employment, a new employee shall receive a performance review.
6.02	When a bargaining unit employee accepts a position outside the bargaining unit, he will cease to have seniority rights and lose all accrued seniority. In the event such an employee returns to the bargaining unit, he will not be entitled to return unless as a probationary employee.
6.03	In all cases of promotion, demotion, transfer, lay-off and recall, the Company shall give preference to the senior employees, provided the senior employee has the physical capabilities and the ability to perform the job in accordance with Company standards. With respect to the issue of an employee’s qualifications, where there is a difference between the provisions of this Clause and those of any other Clause or Letter of Understanding, the terms of the other Clause or Letter shall prevail.
6.04	a) Permanent job vacancies, including a vacancy on a new classification shall be posted in accordance with Clause 6.05 and shall be awarded to the senior applicant who, in accordance with Clause 6.05 (f), will be provided with a reasonable amount of time to complete the required classroom training. On the job instruction with a qualified employee will normally be continuous, subject to the availability of appropriate work and resources.
b)	Thereafter, the employee shall have fifteen (15) working days of actual on the job experience to develop the methods, practices and skills required to be effective on the job and to demonstrate a level of job competency satisfactory to the Company. Where a classification includes multiple functions, such as the Continuous Miner Utilityman, Surface Utilityman, Services Utilityman,

Page 1 of 12
i
General Utilityman, and Processing Utilityman, each function shall be treated independently.
c)	During the fifteen (15) day period referred to in Clause 6.04 (b) above, the employee shall be regularly reviewed and shall receive a written progress report after ten (10) days. The applicable Chief Steward shall receive a copy of this report. If after fifteen (15) working days the successful applicant proves unsatisfactory, the employee shall be returned to his former position if the employee’s former position has not been awarded to another employee, failing this, the employee will be transferred to his departments applicable General Utilityman Group or Surface Utilityman Group, or the Company and the Union shall agree to another appropriate course of action.
d)	Only candidates with an up to date license recognized by the Company in the appropriate trade will be considered for posted positions which require a recognized trade certificate.
6.05	Job vacancies, including a vacancy in a new classification as outlined below in Clause 6.05 a) will be considered permanent when the vacancy is to exceed forty-five (45) calendar days. Exceptions to this stipulation are outlined below in Clause 6.06 and 6.07. The Company will provide a draft of all job vacancies to the Union for review prior to posting the job vacancy on the bulletin board.
a)	Permanent job vacancies, including a vacancy in a new classification, which are above the Unposted Labourer Rate shall be posted without delay on a Central Notice Board for seven (7) calendar days in order to give all employees who are interested an opportunity to bid for the job.
Job vacancies in the classification of Probationary Labourer, Unposted Labourer, and Face Scaler will not be posted.
Any subsequent vacancy arising within the classification posted shall be offered to employees by seniority who signed the initial posting in order of seniority.
b)	Following the seven (7) day period in Clause 6.05 (a) above, the Company will ask the applicants in order of seniority if they wish to
Page 2 of 12
C i

accept or decline the posting prior to officially awarding the posting. Employees who bid on a job and have scheduled themselves to an absence from work during the selection process, shall be required to leave their job choice selection(s) with the applicable clerk prior to beginning their absence or by leaving a telephone number where they can be reached in a timely manner. Failure to observe these options will be considered as the employee forfeiting his seniority rights to a job vacancy.
c)	A posting will not imply or require dual departmental status and no employee will be allowed to hold two posted positions simultaneously unless mutually agreed to by the parties.
No job posting or position will be eliminated in one department and re-posted in another department unless mutually agreed upon by the parties.
d)	The posting will include a statement indicating the shift schedule, crew on which the vacancy or position is currently assigned, the department, trade, rate of pay, and job description. Under normal circumstances, employees shall be limited to performing the work stipulated per their job posting.
Within fourteen (14) calendar days after the posting expires, the Company must announce a successful candidate or cancel the posting. No prerequisite qualifications or experience gained by an employee prior to awarding of the posting will be considered in the awarding of the posting.
e)	In the event of there being no applicant’s after a job posting expires, the most junior employee (includes probationary & unposted Labourer employees) in the applicable department who does not hold a job posting shall be awarded the vacant job. When it becomes necessary to award more than one (1) vacant job posting at a time due to there being no applicant’s after the postings expire, the junior employees (includes probationary & unposted Labourer employees) in the applicable department who do not hold a job posting will be allowed to choose from amongst the vacant job postings in order of their seniority.
[JJC2--
Page 3 of 12
In the event of there being no applicant’s after a job posting expires in an applicable department and all employees already hold a job posting in the applicable department, the vacant job posting shall be filled in accordance with Clause 6.03 above, in which case; the most junior employee(s) (includes probationary & unposted Labourer employees) across all departments will be awarded the vacant job(s) regardless of whether or not such an employee already holds a job posting.
When awarding such vacant job postings in the maintenance departments, the employee’s to be considered will be those who hold an up to date license in the appropriate trade.
f)	If Classroom training is required, it will normally begin within ten (10) calendar days, subject to the availability of the employee’s successor.
g)	Whenever there is a substantial change in the duties of an existing job, the job shall be re-posted unless the parties agree to a different course of action.
h)	Job vacancies will be considered temporary when the vacancy is of a duration of forty-five (45) calendar days or less. Unless otherwise stipulated, such vacancies will be filled as per Letters of Understanding #5 and #8.
i)	A job posting or position being temporarily filled by a probationary employee will be posted upon the successful completion of the employee’s probationary period.
j)	Employees hired after March 01, 2015 may be required to work the
Tuesday to Saturday shift schedule up to a maximum of thirty (30) employees as described in Clause 13.01 b). If such an employee is posted to another job posting and/or position or is working elsewhere (i.e. special project, relief position, etc.) the employee may be assigned to work said Tuesday to Saturday shift schedule whenever the Company elects to implement such shift schedule throughout the term of the Collective Agreement. The provisions of Clause 6.05 j) does not supersede any rights in the Collective Agreement of employees hired prior to March 01, 2015.	,
Page 4 of 12
k)	A vacancy in a new classification, Special Assignment or a Special Project will be considered a Temporary Vacancy when the vacancy is of a duration of forty-five (45) calendar days or less. Temporary job vacancies shall be posted on a Central Notice Board for seven (7) calendar days in order to give all employees who are interested an opportunity to bid for the job. The Company shall not be required to ask the applicants if they wish to accept or decline the temporary job vacancy prior to officially awarding the vacancy. Temporary job vacancies shall be awarded in order of the applicant’s seniority. Work will first be offered and subsequently awarded to the employee’s in the applicable department to which the work is normally performed.
The Company will meet with the Union President or designate and determine the appropriate method for filling the vacancy. The duration of the Temporary Vacancies may be extended upon mutual agreement of the Company and the Union President or designate. In such a case, the resulting vacancy will also be extended and not posted. In the absence of an agreement of either situation, the temporary vacancy will be posted in the same manner as a permanent vacancy.
6.06	a) The following job vacancies shall be re-posted following the corresponding time limits:
>	Trainers...........................after 45	days
>	Leave as per Clause	7.04...........after 45	days
>	Union Office Employees.............after 45	days
>	WlandWSIB..........................after 90	days
> Modified Work & Accommodations ...after 90 days
Where it is determined in advance that the job vacancy will exceed the above noted time limits, the Company will re-post the position prior to the expiry of the time limits.
b)	Vacancies generated by Clause 6.06 (a) above will be filled in accordance with Letters of Understanding #5 and #8 until the time limits or conditions above are met.	j _
Page 5 of 12
c)	An employee returning to regular duty after his job has been reposted will be given the option to exercise his seniority rights in all jobs, on all crews, in all departments in accordance with Clause 6.03, except as restricted in Clause 6.04 (d).
d)	If the employee is unable to exercise his seniority according to Clause 6.06 (c) above, he will be accommodated in accordance with Letters of Understanding #13 & #14.
e)	Any employee promoted, demoted or transferred because of the rearrangement of positions shall exercise his seniority rights in the same order as stated above.
6.07	Vacancies generated by normal vacation periods as per Article 16 will not be re-posted and shall be filled as per Letters of Understanding #5 and #8.
Vacancies generated by the special paid retirement leave in Clause 20.02 shall be posted as per Clause 6.05 above after the retiree has exercised this option.
6.08	As a general principle, daily work assignments in the Mining Department and the Surface Operations Department will be selected in accordance with Letter of Understanding #8.
6.09	a) Special Assignments and Special Projects which are not typically
part of a posted classification in any Department other than the Maintenance Department, will be selected on a shift by shift basis by the applicable employees in the Mining Department General Utilityman Group or the Surface Operations Department Surface Utilityman Group in accordance with Letter of Understanding #8 if the work assignment lasts four (4) days or less.
b)	Special Assignments and Projects in the Maintenance Department that last longer than four (4) days will be offered by seniority and qualifications.
6.10	An employee in the Mining Department whose job is not available on a given shift will be assigned to the General Utilityman Group and an
employee in the Surface Operations Department will be assigned to the Surface Utilityman Group.
6.11	On a shift to shift basis, as a general principle, all daily work assignments will be distributed in a common area at a specific time in each respective department.
6.12	a) In the event of a layoff, all probationary and temporary employees
will be released first. Thereafter, regular employees shall be laid-off in reverse order of seniority in accordance with the applicable Clauses (6.13, 6.14, 6.17).
With the agreement of both parties, an employee not affected by the layoff may be transferred to another department to minimize the effect of the layoff on other employees.
b)	Probationary and temporary employees laid off and subsequently rehired within twelve (12) months of their layoff date will retain all their previous probationary service time.
6.13	a) In all cases of layoffs, posting eliminations, or shut downs lasting five
(5) working days or less, the Company will assign employees to the available work based on their seniority and qualifications. Those employees remaining at work shall not exercise their seniority rights nor shall their rates of pay be altered.
b)	For the purpose of Clause 6.13 (a) each twenty-four (24) hour day will be treated as a unique event and to the extent permitted by employment legislation, employees originally scheduled to work that day will be assigned to the available work based on their seniority and qualifications. A senior employee who cannot be so accommodated will have a corresponding adjustment in overtime hours worked.
c)	If there is less than four (4) weeks between commencement shutdowns of five (5) working days or less, as described in Clause
6.13	(a), then Clause 6.14 will apply to any subsequent weeks.
6.14	In all cases of layoffs, posting eliminations, or shut downs lasting more than five (5) working days, the employees displaced shall have the right to exercise their seniority and qualifications as follows:
Page 7 of 12	t
a)	The Company shall prepare a list indicating the number of employees required in each job classification on each shift.
b)	Each employee displaced as a result of Clause 6.14 by a layoff, a posting elimination, a shut down lasting more than five (5) working days or by another employee, will be given, in order of seniority, the option to bump the most junior employee in any classification on any shift in the department, provided the employee exercising this option has the qualifications, the physical capabilities and the ability to perform the job in accordance with Company standards. Senior employees who are unable to exercise their seniority rights in this fashion, will then be given the option of exercising their seniority rights in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments provided the employee exercising this option has the qualifications, the physical capabilities and the ability to perform the job in accordance with Company standards. These rights may be exercised immediately if the Company knows the five (5) day time limit will be exceeded.
c)	Senior employees who are still unable to exercise their seniority rights in the fashion as outlined in Clause 6.14 (b), will be offered training on a job classification held by a junior employee to reduce the likelihood of being laid off out of seniority, except as restricted in Clause 6.04 (d). The employee will be consulted before the job is selected. Any employee displaced during this process will be given the same option, except as restricted in Clause 6.04 (d). This right may be exercised immediately after the process outlined in Clause
6.14	(b) has been completed.
6.16	In all cases of recall, and/or the process of resuming jobs as a result of Clause 6.14, the Company will post all job vacancies available in accordance with Clause(s) 6.04 and 6.05. The job vacancies will be filled as follows:
a)	Subject to Clause 6.05 j), employees who remain actively at work may choose to apply to fill any job vacancies in accordance with Clauses 6.04 and 6.05.
b)	Subject to Clause 6.05 j), employees who are not actively at work (on layoff) will be initially recalled by seniority to an unposted
Labourer position during the interim of applying to fill any job vacancies in accordance with Clauses 6.04 and 6.05.
c)	When employees are recalled to deal with a short term situation other than an increase in production, the employees will be recalled by seniority to an unposted Labourer position. The work will be allocated in accordance with Letter of Understanding #8.
d)	Should a recall situation occur which cannot be practically covered by any of Clause 6.15 a, b, or c, the parties will meet to determine an appropriate procedure.
e)	In all cases of recall, it is understood and agreed that all regular employees will be recalled first, prior to any probationary or temporary employees being recalled.
6.16	Once the processes described in Clause(s) 6.14 and 6.15 have been completed, no bumping will be permitted until the next layoff, posting elimination, shutdown, or recall except in accordance with Clause(s) 6.06, 6.17, 6.18, 6.19 and 6.20.
6.17	In the case of a permanent layoff, or a permanent elimination of a posting, all employee(s) displaced shall have the right to exercise their seniority rights in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments in accordance with Clause 6.03, except as restricted in Clause 6.04 (d).
6.18	In all cases of a partial elimination of a job posting within a classification, the senior incumbents will be given the option to either retain their job posting or exercise their seniority rights, in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments in accordance with Clause 6.03. Any employee displaced during this process will be given the option to exercise their seniority rights in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments in accordance with Clause 6.03, except as restricted in Clause 6.04 (d).
6.19	All employees displaced as a result of Clause(s) 3.02, 6.05 (g), or 13.02 (c) will be given the option to exercise their seniority rights in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments in accordance with Clause 6.03, except as restricted in Clause 6.04 (d).
6.20	An employee whose equipment is down or whose job is not required for more than thirty (30) consecutive calendar days, for reasons other than
Page 9 of 12
those contemplated in Clause(s) 6.13 through and to Clause 6.19 inclusive, will have the option to exercise his seniority in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments in accordance with Clause 6.03, except as restricted in Clause 6.04 (d). All employees permanently displaced by employees exercising their seniority rights under this Clause will also have the option to exercise their seniority in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments, provided the employee exercising this right has the qualifications, physical capabilities and the ability to perform the job in accordance with Company standards. To decrease the likelihood of an employee being laid off out of seniority, the employee will be offered training on a job classification held by a junior employee, except as restricted in Clause 6.04 (d). The employee will be consulted before the job is selected. These rights may be exercised immediately if the Company knows the thirty (30) day time limits will be exceeded.
6.21	The training provided in all Clause(s) of Article 6, will be administered in the same fashion as outlined in Clause 6.04.
6.22	An employee shall cease to have seniority rights and his employee status with the Company shall be terminated for all purposes if he:
a)	voluntarily leaves the Company;
b)	is discharged for just cause;
c)	retires from Company service;
d)	is laid off by the Company and has not been recalled in accordance with the time limits outlined below. In such an event, an employee with five (5) or more years of continuous service and who has not previously been offered severance, shall be entitled to a severance payment calculated in accordance with Letter of Understanding #6.
Years of Service
•	Less than 1	year.....12	months
•	1 year or more.......24	months
•	10 years or	more.....36	months
•	20 years or	more.....48	months
NOTE:	In the event of a shut down of the mine in part or in whole
for reasons of natural or accidental disaster or a decision to temporarily cease mining production, it is understood that the employee’s recall rights shall be initiated upon the day the mine reopens for production.
e)	fails to notify the Company within three (3) calendar days following receipt of notice to return, by registered mail sent to the employee's last place of address on record with the Company, of his intention to return to work following a lay-off;
NOTE:	The time limit allowed for the receipt of such notice shall be
four (4) calendar days after the mailing date.
f)	fails to report for work following a lay-off, within fourteen (14) calendar days after notice to return to work has been sent by registered mail, to the employee’s last place of address on record with the Company, unless excused for reasonable cause.
NOTE:	It is the responsibility of the employee on lay-off to notify
the Company of the address where he can be reached in the event of recall.
g)	is absent for more than three (3) consecutive working days without just cause in the opinion of the Company, except in the case of illness or accident provided the Company is notified of such illness or accident during the above three (3) day period. The Company may require such illness or accident to be confirmed by a doctor’s certificate. Notwithstanding the words “in the opinion of the Company” an Arbitrator may render a decision based upon the merits of the issue in dispute.
h)	he does not report for work upon the expiration of an authorized leave of absence, unless excused for reasonable cause.
6.23	a) Notwithstanding Clause 7.02, an employee absent due to illness or accident, shall accumulate and retain seniority rights and employee status with the Company while on Weekly Indemnity, Long Term Disability or WSIB or during the following periods of absence, whichever is greater.	y ^
jfx. i C- *
Page 11 of 12
Years of Service
•	Less than 1	year....12 months
•	1 year or more.............24	months
•	10 years or	more....36 months
•	20 years or	more....48 months
b)	An employee shall retain seniority rights and employee status with the Company for a leave of absence for any reason other than those named in (a) for up to three (3) months, except as provided for in Clause 7.03 and 7.04.
NOTE: Employees who have exceeded the time limits in this Clause shall lose their seniority rights and their status as an employee of the Company shall terminate.
6.24	For the purpose of this Article, any reference to departments shall mean those outlined in Clause 2.06.
6.25	An employee on layoff shall have no status under this Agreement, except as specifically provided herein.
6.26	A Seniority List shall be made up by the Company every six (6) months. One (1) copy shall be posted on the Central Notice Board and one (1) copy shall be supplied to the Union. Any disagreement on the seniority positions shall be taken up with the Company and referred to the original date of hire.
6.27	The Company agrees a seniority list will be included in the Collective Agreement booklets as an appendix. It will have the following note attached to the bottom of the seniority list: “This list is for quick informal reference and is not an official seniority list.”
Company
V\ 7oi<,
Date ^
Date
Page 12 of 12
ARTICLE 7 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
7.01	All leaves of absence shall be without pay, except as noted in Clauses 15.05, 18.02, 18.03, 21.03 and 21.04.
7.02	Employees absent due to sickness or accident or on Workers’ Compensation shall be automatically considered to be on leave of absence, provided that the Company may require such sickness or accident to be confirmed by a doctor’s certificate.
7.03	Employees of the Company, not exceeding four (4) in number, elected by the Union as representatives to District, Provincial or National functions shall, subject to production requirements be granted reasonable leave of absence to attend such functions, provided the Company received adequate notice of requested absence. The employees granted such a leave of absence shall accumulate seniority for the duration of said leave.
7.04	During the term of this Agreement, the Company, on application from the Union reasonably in advance, shall grant leave of absence not to exceed six (6) months, for up to three (3) employees who may be selected as a representative of the National Union, to fill an office with the District, the Ontario Federation of Labour, or the Canadian Labour Congress or to act as a certified instructor. This leave of absence may be extended an additional six (6) months by agreement of the parties. The employee granted such a leave of absence shall accumulate seniority for the duration of said leave. The employee will not be entitled to any benefits under this Agreement except that the Group Insurance coverage will be maintained providing the employee pays the full cost.
7.05	The Company shall grant leave of absence to those employees required to attend any conciliation or arbitration proceedings. It is agreed that the number of such employees shall be kept to a minimum so as not to affect the efficient operation of the mine.
7.06	An employee may be granted up to two (2) weeks leave of absence consecutive with his vacation and if the Company grants such leave of absence, the employee shall accumulate seniority during such leave.
7.07	A leave of absence may be extended by the Company for justifiable reasons.
7.08	An employee who is unavailable for work as a result of being charged with a crime, shall not be terminated solely by reason of such absence during the first sixty (60) days of the absence.
In such an event, the Company reserves the right at any time, to make a decision with respect to the employee’s ongoing employment based on the facts of the incident. Any such decision will be subject to the provisions of Clause 3.01 (e).
(/VK.<w u Date
Union
Date
Page 2 of 2
ARTICLE 8 COMMITTEES
8.01	NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
The Company agrees that a Negotiating Committee, not to exceed five (5) employees in number, selected by the Union, shall be recognized as the authorized negotiating representative of the Union. The Company shall deal with the said Committee with respect to proposals for modifications of the Agreement as outlined in Article 22. An accredited official of the Union may participate in any such negotiations. Up to two (2) additional people appropriate to the agenda may attend on mutual agreement.
The Company and the Union shall supply each other in writing the names of the employees constituting the Negotiating Committee and shall inform each other two (2) days prior to any meeting of any changes in the personnel of the said Committee.
Meetings between the Company and the Negotiating Committee shall be held at times affording the least loss of time to the Company and to the members of the Committee. The members of the Committee shall be scheduled on Monday to Friday #2 Shift once negotiations have started. It is understood that payment to the members of the Committee for regular time lost in connection with the re-negotiation of this Agreement will be paid by the Company up to conciliation.
For the purposes of this Clause, an employee who is not on his day off and who spends a day in negotiations with the Company shall be deemed to have performed a day of work for all purposes, including the calculation of overtime, and Committee Members shall not be required to work the #1 Shift immediately before or the #3 Shift immediately after a day of negotiations, if they would otherwise have been so scheduled.
The Company shall not pay Committee Members for time lost from work due to conciliation proceedings.
Page 1 of 4
8.02	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
The Company agrees that a Grievance Committee, not to exceed three (3) employees in number, selected by the Union, shall be recognized as the authorized representative of the Union to handle all grievances as outlined in Clause 9.04.
The Union shall supply the Company in writing the names of the employees constituting the Grievance Committee and shall inform the Company at least two (2) days prior to any meeting of any change in the personnel of the said Committee.
Meetings between the Company and the Grievance Committee shall be held on selected days or a mutually agreed alternative time affording the least loss of time to the Company and the members of the Committee.
It is understood that compensation to the Committee and the appropriate employees (Grievor, Steward, and any other mutually approved) for regular time lost in connection with grievances of employees shall be paid by the Company up to and including Step Two.
The Company shall not pay Committee members for time lost from work due to Arbitration proceedings.
8.03	Meetings of the following Joint Union-Management Committees shall be held on selected days or a mutually agreed alternative time affording the least loss to the Company and the Union.
The Joint Union-Management Committees are as follows:
a)	Labour-Management Committee
b)	Health and Safety Committee
c)	Training Committee
d)	Accommodation Committee
e)	Employee Assistance Program Committee
Time spent by members at meetings of the above noted Committees shall be paid at the appropriate straight time or overtime rate. Members will additionally be provided with up to one (1) hour preparation time in advance of any of the above noted meetings.
Page 2 of 4
8.04	LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Company recognizes a Labour Management Committee comprised of five (5) Mine Management (Mine Manager and below) and five (5) Local Union Negotiating Committee Officials to meet not less than once every month or as otherwise agreed between the parties, for the purpose of advising and consulting on matters impacting on the operations and the employees, and to otherwise enhance communications to their mutual benefit. It is understood that upon notification from either party, up to two (2) additional employees who are pertinent to the discussion may attend.
8.05	JOINT HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE
The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be composed of five (5) employees selected by the Company and five (5) employees selected by the Union.
The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall meet not less than once a month.
The purpose of the Committee is to monitor and make appropriate recommendations on matters pertaining to health and safety as provided in Article 17.
8.06	JOINT TRAINING COMMITTEE
The purpose of the Joint Training Committee is to oversee the training program at the Goderich Mine. The Joint Training Committee will monitor, track and assess the departmental training programs to ensure the training programs are current, consistent, relevant, effective and progressive. The Joint Training Committee will make recommendations on training issues.
1.	A Joint Training Committee will be maintained and co-chaired by the Company’s Environment Health & Safety Manager and a bargaining unit member selected by the Local Union. The parties agree that the Union may select someone other than the bargaining unit trainer in the Training Department for this position. The Committee will have training representatives as listed below to support and assist in the identification of specific areas of expertise:
• Mining
(JLKZ—
Page 3 of 4
•	Surface Operations
•	Maintenance (surface & underground)
•	Electrical
2.	The Company and the Union shall select their representatives. The employee members will represent the employees of the area of expertise from which they were selected.
3.	Each training representative will meet with the appropriate Department Superintendent quarterly to discuss training requirements and training related issues. The Superintendent will forward a report summarizing the meeting and forecasted training requirements to the Environment Health & Safety Manager. The Union and Company Co-Chairs will be copied on this report.
4.	The Co-Chairs will meet as required and upon request to review the above reports which collectively represent the training requirements for the entire site. Subsequently, the Environment Health & Safety Manager will compile the training requirements and publish a report summarizing the training completed the previous month as well as planned future training.
5.	Semi-annually the Environment Health & Safety Manager will create and publish a draft plan to meet the training needs requested by the Department Superintendents. Subsequently, the Co-Chairs, Superintendents, and training representatives will meet to review the training results of the previous quarter and discuss the planned activity for the upcoming quarter. At the conclusion of this meeting, the Environment Health & Safety Manager will finalize and implement the quarterly training plan.
gii0mr .....mi...
Union
y' //:
Date
Page 4 of 4
ARTICLE 9
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	When an employee or a group of employees has a dispute involving the interpretation, application or an alleged violation of the Agreement, the employee(s) and the employee’s supervisor(s) will discuss the dispute and attempt to resolve it. A steward may be present at the employee’s request during the discussion. Failing a satisfactory resolution of the dispute a grievance may be submitted electronically to the employee’s supervisor by the chief steward or his designate, to step one of the grievance procedure, provided that no more than three (3) weeks has elapsed since the date of the incident giving rise to the grievance or two (2) weeks since the employee discussed it with his supervisor. The Company agrees to provide all relevant documentation in a timely manner upon request to Senior Local Union Officials.
9.02	A first step meeting shall be scheduled with reasonable advanced notice within two (2) weeks of the date the grievance is submitted at a mutually agreed upon time. This meeting may be attended by the employee, the employee’s shift steward and the chief steward or his delegate. The Company will be represented by the appropriate superintendent and/or his delegate and the supervisor. The Company will reply in writing within one (1) week of the first step meeting.
9.03	Failing a satisfactory resolution at step one, the grievance may be advanced to step two, provided the Union notifies the Company in writing within two (2) weeks of receiving the Company’s first step answer.
9.04	A second step meeting shall be scheduled within two (2) weeks of the
notification unless an extension date has been mutually agreed upon by the parties. This meeting will be attended by the grievance committee and the National Representative or his delegate. The Company shall be represented by the Mine Operations Manager or his delegate, the HR Representative, and such other Company officials as may be appropriate. Either party may request the presence of the grievor. The Company will reply in writing within one (1) week of the second step meeting.	*
Page 1 of3
9.05	Failing a satisfactory resolution at step two, the grievance may be advanced to arbitration, provided the Union notifies the Company in writing within two (2) weeks of receiving the Company’s second step answer.
9.06	At all steps of the grievance and arbitration procedure, the grievor and the Union shall disclose to the Company a full and detailed statement of the facts, the remedy sought and the provision(s) of the Agreement relied upon. In a similar fashion, the Company shall disclose all pertinent facts upon which it relies. In the event additional facts become available they will be revealed to the other party in a timely fashion.
9.07	a) A policy grievance is defined as a dispute which affects the rights of
the parties to this Agreement as entities rather than the rights of an individual employee or group of employees. Policy grievances shall be initiated at step two.
b) To avoid the necessity of processing numerous grievances concerning the same subject or event, the Company will recognize Group Grievances, provided that each aggrieved employee’s name is listed on the grievance and Clause 9.02 shall apply. One representative of the group may attend.
9.08	It is understood and agreed that no precedent shall be set as the result of a dispute or grievance which is settled short of arbitration unless both parties expressly agree in writing, that the settlement shall constitute a precedent. Neither party shall utilize the settlement of a dispute or grievance in an effort to maintain a practice or to initiate the same or similar practice in another location.
9.09	No employee or employee representative shall leave his work for any of the purposes mentioned in this Agreement without a request to and permission from his supervisor. No meeting between an employee and the Company during which an employee is entitled to and request representation will commence until the employee’s appropriate representative(s) can be made available. The Company agrees to maintain a reasonable balance between employee and management representatives. Meeting times shall normally be scheduled in a manner so as to provide adequate notice at a mutual agreed upon time.	j
Page 2 of 3
9.10	A copy of any written material or notice of discipline or counselling used by the Company to correct behaviour, will be forwarded without delay to the Local Union Chief Steward.
9.11	The written material, discipline or counselling notices referred to in Clause 9.10 that do not involve a suspension shall be deleted from an employee’s file if a period of twelve (12) months has elapsed without any new infraction resulting in further disciplinary action.
9.12	The record of a suspension shall be deleted from an employee’s file if twenty-four (24) months has elapsed without any new infraction resulting in further disciplinary action.
9.13	Disciplinary suspensions will be served in a timely fashion at management’s discretion. When such a suspension is five (5) days or less and is the subject of a grievance it will normally be served after the earlier of the second step answer or the date the grievance is abandoned.
9.14	The parties agree that the time limits in this procedure are mandatory. Furthermore, if the Company fails to schedule or hold a meeting within the prescribed time limits, the grievance shall be automatically advanced to the next step in the procedure.
Union
Date

Page$ of'©
ARTICLE 10 ARBITRATION
10.01	When either party decides to submit a grievance to Arbitration, as per Clause 9.05, the other party shall be so advised in writing. The Company and the Union shall endeavour to agree upon a sole Arbitrator. If the Arbitrator is not chosen within a ten (10) day period, then the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall be requested to appoint an Arbitrator.
10.02	No person shall be appointed as an Arbitrator who has been involved previously in an attempt to negotiate to settle the grievance.
10.03	The expenses of the Arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
10.04	The proceedings and the decision of the Arbitrator shall be expedited by the Company and the Union. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto; but the Arbitrator shall not be authorized to make, nor shall he/she make any decision or recommendation inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor alter, modify, or amend any part of this Agreement, nor make any general changes such as changes in wage rates, nor deal with any matter not covered by this Agreement.
Cm.
Company
Union
Date
y' yy. <-3 a <» "
ARTICLE 11
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
11.01	The Union agrees there shall be no strike, work stoppage, slowdown or restriction of output during the life of this Agreement.
11.02	The Company agrees that there shall be no lockout during the life of this Agreement.
Company	Union
jvi U loiS Date 3
_____y'' y/, csP-QSjs
Date
ARTICLE 12
MAINTENANCE & PROTECTION DURING SUSPENSION OF WORK
12.01	It is agreed that, during any general suspension of work at the said mine at any time and for any cause whatsoever, the Company’s property shall be protected, the skip hoist, water pumps, and other machinery necessary for the protection of the mine, shall be kept operating, and the Company’s equipment shall be left in good condition by the employees. The safety provisions of the current Occupational Health and Safety Act, and Regulations for Mines and Mining Plants shall be fully complied with by all employees prior to any cessation of work.
12.02	It is understood that those employees who are required to remain at work, or report to work (including Mine Rescue personnel), under the provisions of Clause 12.01 above, shall be available for such work during the suspension of work. No production or shipping work shall be done by such employees.
It is agreed that personnel required to report for work under Clauses
12.01	and 12.02 shall have Life, AD&D. and hospital insurance maintained by the Company for claims incurred on any day the employee has actively been at work.
12.03	The employees referred to in Clause 12.02 above shall be paid at the wage rates in effect at the time of the general suspension of work.
Company
Date ^

Date
ARTICLE 13
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
13.01	a) The work week is defined as commencing at the beginning of Monday's #1 Shift and consists of seven (7) consecutive days ending at the conclusion of Sunday’s #3 Shift. The regular hours of work shall be forty (40) per week which shall normally consist of five (5) eight (8) hour shifts in accordance with the regularly assigned shift schedules. The three (3) shift seven (7) day shift schedule shall provide an average of forty (40) hours per week over a four (4) week cycle. Employees on such a schedule are not eligible for overtime pay on the sixth (6th) regularly scheduled shift in any work week.
b)	The following shift schedules are mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union:
•	Monday to Friday eight (8) hour straight # 2 dayshift schedule in all departments recognized in Clause 2.06.
•	Monday to Friday eight (8) hour straight # 3 afternoon shift schedule in all departments recognized in Clause 2.06.
•	Monday to Friday eight (8) hour weekly rotating (# 2 dayshift - # 3 afternoon shift) schedule in all departments recognized in Clause 2.06.
•	Monday to Friday eight (8) hour weekly rotating (# 2 dayshift - # 3 afternoon shift - # 1 midnight shift) schedule in all departments recognized in Clause 2.06.
•	Monday through Sunday two (2) crew, 8-12 hour, seven (7) day, two (2) week rotating schedule governed under Guideline format for the Shaftman classification, restricted to the Surface Operations Department as recognized in Clause 2.06.
•	Monday through Sunday three (3) crew, 8-12 hour, seven (7) day, three (3) week rotating schedule governed under Guideline format for the Janitor classification, restricted to the Surface Operations Department as recognized in Clause 2.06.
"t
Page 1 of 15
•	Monday through Saturday four (4) crew, 8-9-10.5 hour, six (6) day, four (4) week rotating schedule governed under Outline/Guideline format, restricted to the underground Mining Department and underground Maintenance Department (support group) as recognized in Clause 2.06.
•	Monday through Sunday four (4) crew, 8-9-10.5 hour, seven (7) day, four (4) week rotating schedule governed under Outline/Guideline format, restricted to the underground Mining Department and underground Maintenance Department (support group) as recognized in Clause 2.06.
•	Tuesday to Saturday eight (8) hour weekly rotating (# 2 dayshift - # 3 afternoon shift - # 1 midnight shift) schedule for up to a maximum of thirty (30) job positions in the General Utilityman classification restricted to the underground Mining Department as recognized in Clause 2.06. It is understood and agreed that the filling of these thirty (30) General Utilityman job positions will apply to employees hired after March 01, 2015. Employees hired prior to March 01, 2015 shall not be prohibited from volunteering to fill one of these thirty (30) General Utilityman job positions.
•	Monday through Sunday eight (8) hour three (3) shift seven (7) day continental schedule for up to a maximum of four (4) job postings in the Hoistman classification restricted to the Surface Operations Department as recognized in Clause 2.06.
•	Existing Monday through Sunday 10.5 Hour shift schedule in all departments recognized in Clause 2.06.
•	Existing Monday through Sunday 5 Crew shift schedules in all departments recognized in Clause 2.06.
Whenever there is to be a change to a shift schedule, the affected job classifications will be re-posted with the changed shift schedule listed on the posting. The existing incumbent(s) will be allowed to exercise his seniority rights in accordance with Article 6. In addition, it is understood and agreed that the Company will provide the Union with a minimum of two (2) weeks notice prior to the implementation of any changes to a shift schedule, except in
Page 2 of 15
special emergency situations where such notice is impractical having regard for the emergency situation.
The parties agree to explore the development of alternative shift schedules during the term of the Collective Agreement.
c)	Except for the shift schedules stipulated in Clause 13.01 b) above, shift schedules that do not provide Saturday and Sunday as days of rest shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties prior to being implemented.
d)	Except for the shift schedules stipulated in Clause 13.01 b) above, any shift schedule developed in excess of eight (8) hours a day and/or forty (40) hours a week must be mutually agreed upon by the parties prior to being implemented and, any such schedule will also be additionally governed under Guideline format, to which Guidelines will be maintained in accordance and in unison with the Collective Agreement and the respective shift schedule Guidelines.
e)	In keeping with mutually agreed upon shift schedules between the parties, employees may voluntarily work in excess of eight (8) hours per day provided such hours do not conflict with the established requirements on hours of work and rest periods.
f)	No employee will be requested, required, or permitted to work any shift in excess of twelve (12) hours, unless approved by the parties.
g)	No employee will be requested, required, assigned, or permitted to perform any work off-site for the Company including but not limited to; being on-call, involving pagers, telephones, computer devices, faxes, radio devices, or involvement in the ordering/tracking of any shipment or product unless mutually agreed upon otherwise by the parties.
h)	All lunch periods will be counted and accumulated towards an employee’s weekly maximum hours of work per day and per week, except as otherwise mutually agreed upon by the parties.
i)	Prior to any shift schedule being implemented in excess of eight (8) hours per day and/or in excess of forty (40) hours a week
(/Ucz.
Page 3 of 15
underground in the Mine, thorough air testing will be conducted to establish that the schedule meets the criteria of ensuring employees are not over-exposed to the TLV limits. Periodic air testing underground shall be conducted following the implementation of such schedules when situations arise to ensure employees are not over-exposed to the TLV limits.
j)	No bargaining unit employee shall be requested to perform supervisory functions unless mutually agreed upon by the parties.
k)	An employee who calls-into work and/or who personally attends the mine-site on stand-by in an effort of obtaining unscheduled work outside established procedures/guidelines will not be offered nor awarded any such work.
.02 a) Shift Start and Stop Times:
The shift schedule start and stop times are as follows:
l) The 10.5 hour shift schedule start and stop times for Continuous Mining, General Utilityman, and Unposted Labourer are:
Shift 2	06:50	am to 05:20 pm
Shift 3	05:10	pm to 03:40 am
The 10.5 hour shift schedule start and stop times for Ground Control, Haulage, and Maintenance Running Repair are:
Shift 2	06:30	am to 05:00 pm
Shift 3	04:50	pm to 03:20 am
Shift 3	05:30	pm to 04:00 am (Blasters)
2)	The 8 hour shift schedule start and stop times for Underground Material Handling Crew are:
Shift 1	10:20	pm to 06:20 am
Shift 2	06:20	am to 02:20 pm
Shift 3	02:20	pm to 10:20 pm

c:.

(AAz—
Page 4 of 15
3)	The 8 hour shift schedule start and stop times for Underground Miscellaneous Crew are:
Services:	Shift 2	06:40 am to 02:40 pm
Diamond Driller: Shift 2	06:40 am to 02:40 pm
Shift 3	02:50 pm to 10:50 pm
Equipment Washer: Shift 3 02:20 pm to 10:20 pm
Development Ventilation: Shift 3	02:50 pm to 10:50 pm
U/G Stores Material Handler: Shift 2	06:20 am to 02:20 pm
4)	The 8 hour shift schedule start and stop times for the Underground Processing Utilityman are:
Shift 1	10:20 pm to 06:20	am
Shift 2	06:20 am to 02:20	pm
Shift 3	02:20 pm to 10:20	pm
The 12 hour shift schedule start and stop times for the Underground Processing Utilityman are:
Nights 10:20 pm to 10:20 am Afternoons 10:20 am to 10:20 pm
5)	The 8 hour shift schedule start and stop times for Surface Operations and Underground Processing (except processing utilityman) are:
Shift 1	10:50 pm	to 06:50	am
Shift 2	06:50 am	to 02:50	pm
Shift 3	02:50 pm	to 10:50	pm
The 12 hour shift schedule start and stop times for Surface Operations and Underground Processing (except processing utilityman) are:
Nights 10:50 pm to 10:50 am Afternoons 10:50 am to 10:50 pm
Afternoons 06:00 am to 06:00 pm (Janitor)
Nights
Afternoons
i/Uz-
09:00 pm to 09:00 am (Shaftman)
06:00 am to 06:00 pm (Shaftman)
Page 5 of 15	Cl,
6)	The 8 hour shift schedule start and stop times for Maintenance E, F, G, and 5 Crew Schedule are:
Shift 1	10:20 pm to 06:20 am
Shift 2 06:10 am to 02:10 pm Shift 2 06:20 am to 02:20 pm Shift 3 02:20 pm to 10:20 pm
(5 Crew)
(Underground E, F, and G)
(5 Crew and Surface E, F, and G) (5 Crew and E & F)
The 12 hour shift schedule start and stop times for Maintenance 5 Crew Schedule are:
Nights 10:20 pm to 10:20 am Afternoons 10:20 am to 10:20 pm
Note: These shift schedule start and stop times set forth are fixed and will not be changed by the Company without the agreement of the Union. The Union will not withhold such agreement to change these shift schedule start and stop times to other identical patterned equivalent in length shift schedule start and stop times, if the Company has a good business reason for the change.
b)	Shift premiums for the above shift schedule start and stop times will be in accordance with Clause 14.02.
c)	Whenever the starting time for a job classification is changed, the job classification will be re-posted with the starting times included on the posting. Furthermore, if a shift pattern is changed, the job classification will be re-posted with the starting times and pattern listed on the posting. The existing incumbent(s) will be allowed to exercise his seniority rights in accordance with Article 6.
d)	The Company agrees to post any shift schedule start and stop time changes in conspicuous locations for view by the employees.
e)	It is understood and agreed that an employee will not be assigned or scheduled to an early start shift time unless mutually agreed upon by the parties.
Page 6 of 15
13.03	a) All employees working an eight (8) hour shift shall receive a fixed scheduled uninterrupted thirty (30) minute paid lunch period between the third (3rd) and fifth (5th) hours of the shift.
All employees working a nine (9) hour shift shall receive a fixed scheduled uninterrupted thirty (30) minute paid lunch period between the fourth (4th) and fifth (5th) hours of the shift.
All employees working a ten and one-half (101/a) hour shift shall receive a fixed scheduled uninterrupted thirty (30) minute paid lunch period at the fifth (5th) hour of the shift. An employee taking such scheduled lunch period prior to the fifth (5th) hour, will receive an additional scheduled uninterrupted thirty (30) minute paid lunch period between the seventh (7th) and ninth (9th) hour of the shift.
All employees working a twelve (12) hour shift shall receive two (2) fixed scheduled uninterrupted thirty (30) minute paid lunch periods between the third (3rd) and fifth (5th) hours of the shift and the seventh (7th) and ninth (9th) hour of the shift.
In the event it is required to change an employee’s fixed scheduled lunch period(s) at the employee’s wicket start time, the employee shall not be entitled to be paid an additional half-hour at straight time for each re-scheduled lunch period(s).
In the event it is required to change an employee’s schedule lunch period(s) after the employee’s wicket start time, the employee shall be entitled to be paid an additional half-hour at straight time for each re-scheduled lunch period(s).
Lunch periods above that are to be completed by the fifth (5th) hour of the shift may be extended to begin at the fifth (5th) hour of the shift on a voluntary employee basis provided such is approved by the employee’s supervisor.
It is understood and agreed that no employee will work more than five (5) consecutive hours without receiving a scheduled uninterrupted thirty (30) minute paid lunch period.
b)	Employees will be paid an additional half-hour at straight time for each scheduled lunch periods exercised upon in Clause 13.03 (a), (c), (d), and (e).	y ^
c)	Once an employee has begun his lunch, his lunch period will remain undisturbed unless he volunteers to have his lunch period disrupted. All employees may work through their scheduled uninterrupted paid lunch period(s) when requested and will finish the remainder of his lunch period immediately following the disruption.
d)	Employees working on a stationary job may take their lunch period(s) in intervals through out their work shift at their work station.
e)	Employees working on any job other than a stationary job may work through their scheduled lunch period(s) provided they receive and take an alternate scheduled uninterrupted thirty (30) minute paid lunch period between the time frames indicated in Clause 13.03 (a).
13.04	a) Except as noted in Clause 13.05 all hours worked in excess of the regularly assigned daily hours shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at rates of one and one-half (11/4) times the employee's straight time classified rate except double the employee's straight time classified rate will be paid for the following:
i)	All overtime hours in excess of eight (8) on any day of rest,
ii)	All overtime hours on the employee’s second and subsequent day(s) of rest *,
iii)	All overtime hours on Sundays.
10.5	Hour Shift Schedule:
* For work weeks encompassing two (2) scheduled days of rest; Thursday will be considered as the second day of rest,
* For work weeks encompassing five (5) scheduled days of rest; Tuesday, Saturday, and Sunday will be considered as second and subsequent days of rest.
Page 8 of 15
5 Crew Shift Schedule:
* For work weeks encompassing five (5) scheduled days of rest; Thursday and Friday will be considered as second and subsequent days of rest.
Once an employee begins being paid an overtime rate of pay and/or progresses from a lower overtime rate to a higher overtime rate, he shall continue to be so paid at the applicable overtime rate until the continuous period of overtime work is completed, regardless of what shift and/or day such work happens to continue forward on. Lunch periods or breaks not exceeding two (2) hours in duration shall not be considered as breaking a continuous period of work. Overtime shall be calculated to the nearest one-tenth (1/10) hour worked.
b)	Subject to Clause 13.01, an employee who works more than twelve (12) continuous hours shall be paid at the rate of double time for all hours worked beyond the twelve (12) hours.
13.05	a) A shift schedule change shall be posted not later than 3 PM on
Wednesday of the preceding week. In the event there is a change in an employee's days or hours of work the first regular scheduled shift worked under the changed schedule shall be paid at time and one half.
b)	Employees who work outside of their regular scheduled shift in a work week shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate for such work even if they have failed to work their regular scheduled shifts within their work week for good and sufficient reason.
c)	Two employees may exchange shifts by mutual consent, provided they have received prior approval from both their supervisors. An employee may exchange shifts with himself provided he has the approval of his supervisor. Under no circumstances will overtime be paid as a result of this exchange of shifts.
13.06	Overtime work will first be offered on a voluntary basis in accordance with Clause 13.07. Thereafter, the overtime work will be offered on a voluntary basis to the eligible active qualified employees in the
Page 9 of 15
following order in accordance with the established “Voluntary CrossDepartmental Overtime” Guideline:
a)	employees who hold designated relief positions
b)	qualified employees in the other Operations or Maintenance Department
c)	helpers from any other department where practical.
Employees offered and awarded cross-departmental overtime work in another department cannot exercise their seniority to displace a junior employee who was awarded overtime work in their regular department.
13.07	Overtime work is defined as encompassing any work on-site including call-outs and emergency work, exclusive of an employee’s regular scheduled hours of work and any hours so worked on a Statutory/Mine Holiday.
All overtime work will be offered on a voluntary employee basis and will be distributed as equally as possible among eligible qualified active employees within the departments outlined in Clause 2.06, in accordance with the “Overtime Distribution Procedure”, Clause 13.06 and established Guidelines and Procedures. Overtime work will first be offered to eligible qualified active employees within each department with the least amount of total paid overtime roster hours at the time the overtime is made available. The remuneration for such work shall be at the wage rate normally paid for the job. It is recognized and agreed that it is not possible to ensure an equality of overtime at any given time. However, the Company will, to the best of its ability, equalize distribution on a continuing basis within each department.
Employees are to inform any Coordinator of overtime errors that were posted on the “Employees Required to Work List”. Concerns will be acted on as soon as possible.
a)	If there is time for the error to be corrected, the employee shall be added to the “Employees Required to Work List”.
b)	In the event that an employee reports an overtime error on the “Employees Required to Work List” and there is time to correct the error and an overtime administrator does not correct the error, the
Page 10 of 15
- r
employee(s) affected will be compensated for all lost wages including premiums.
c)	In the event of all other improper allocation of overtime issues, the affected employee(s) will be compensated in the following manner:
•	They will receive pay for half the number of hours for each overtime shift lost at one and one-half (IV2) times the employee’s applicable classified rate and;
•	The total number of paid hours of overtime lost will be removed from the employee’s applicable overtime roster hours and;
•	In the event that there is no overtime work available in the four (4) week period following the lost overtime shift(s), the affected employee(s) will further be compensated for one half (1/2) the number of hours for each overtime shift lost at one and one-half (IV2) times the employees straight time classified rate.
d)	If another employee is subsequently removed from the “Employees Required to Work List”, he shall be entitled to compensation equal to four (4) hours pay at his regular straight time rate.
The current “Overtime Distribution Procedure” and established Guidelines will be posted in each department where employees signup for overtime.
13.08	The bargaining unit employees in each of the departments outlined in Clause 2.06 may establish or change the method by which overtime will be distributed, provided the method is acceptable to a minimum of seventy-five percent (75%) of those employees, the Company and the Union and it does not alter any other provision of this Agreement. When the need arises to determine a seventy-five percent (75%) consensus, an on-site vote will be conducted by the Union.
13.09	An employee temporarily on a transfer into another department for less than an entire work week as defined in Clause 13.01 shall not be eligible to apply for overtime work or mine holiday work on the new department’s “Overtime Sign-up List”. He will however, remain eligible to apply for overtime work and mine holiday work in the department to which he is normally assigned.
Page 11 of 15
Upon completing an entire week’s work in the new department, the employee will not be eligible to apply for overtime work or mine holiday work on the department’s “Overtime Sign-up List” to which he is normally assigned until he has transferred back.
This Clause does not apply to employee’s who are on a special assignment or a special project, unless mutually agreed upon otherwise by the parties.
13.10	The overtime roster for each department shall be updated and posted weekly in each department where employees sign-up for overtime and will indicate the running total of paid overtime hours. The roster shall include a separate column indicating the running total of worked mine holiday hours. The Union will receive a copy of each weekly overtime roster for each department.
All paid overtime hours worked including call outs and emergency work will be charged against the employee's overtime hour’s roster and all worked mine holiday hours will additionally be charged accordingly.
An employee working through a lunch period(s) is not considered as additional working time or overtime work and such will not be charged against an employee’s overtime or mine holiday roster hours.
The overtime roster hours will roll back to zero for all overtime work being offered and awarded on the second Saturday in January.
The mine holiday roster hours will roll back to zero for all mine holiday work being offered and awarded on January 01st New Year’s Day.
Employees working overtime for committee work or for mine rescue training or for mine rescue work will not be charged on the employee’s overtime hour’s roster for the overtime so worked.
Employees who receive time and one half pay in accordance with Clause 13.05 a) will not be charged such hours on the overtime or mine holiday hour’s roster.
Employees trapped or delayed in the Mine after the completion of their work shift will not be charged such hours on the overtime or mine holiday hour’s roster.
Page 12 of 15
It is understood and agreed that the hours on an employee’s overtime or mine holiday roster will not be averaged.
13.11	An employee who is on a temporary assignment or not working his regular scheduled shift will only be obligated to work the maximum daily and weekly hours so specified in Clause 13.01 in the Agreement. Subject to Article 13 it is understood and agreed that such employees may voluntarily work in excess of eight (8) hours.
13.12	In the event an employee volunteers to work two (2) or more hours of overtime with his scheduled regular or overtime shift, or two (2) or more hours of mine holiday work with his scheduled mine holiday shift, he shall be provided a meal or meal allowance at the conclusion of the two (2) hours worked when:
•	such hours are continuous following the stop time of his scheduled regular or overtime shift or scheduled mine holiday shift,
•	such hours are continuous at the start and/or stop time of any shift worked where an employee was not previously contacted during his previous working period.
If he volunteers to work longer, he will be provided with a one-half (1A) hour lunch period with pay. The approximate value of the meal shall equal sixteen dollars ($16.00), or the employee shall receive a cash payment of an equal amount in the event a meal cannot be provided. The meal, (or equal payment) and the one-half (1A) hour lunch period with pay shall be provided each succeeding period of four (4) hours overtime.
In cases where an employee arranges to have a meal brought in by taxi from Goderich, the cost of such taxi shall be paid for by the Company. However, this shall not apply if an employee is granted permission to go home in order to have his meal at the time(s) so specified above.
13.13	Unless approved schedules provide otherwise, the maximum allowable hours underground employees will work, will be eight (8) hours collar to collar (including the paid lunch period) and will be paid eight (8) hours and fifteen (15) minutes at straight time or the applicable overtime or mine holiday rate and will be allowed to punch out and leave the property as soon as their scheduled cage arrives on surface.
*■
Page 13 of 15

The shift start and stop times listed in Clause 13.02 are the collar down and up times for underground employees. Underground employees will be punched in, dressed and at the wicket five (5) minutes prior to the collar down (punch-in) time for their respective classification. The cage to surface for each classification will leave the bottom of the shaft five (5) minutes prior to the collar up (punch-out) time for that classification.
13.14	Employees trapped or delayed in the Mine after the completion of their work shift will not be required to work except for emergency work required to aid in the evacuation of the employees. Employees will be paid for all hours so trappedy or delayed at the applicable overtime or mine holiday rate until such time as they reach surface plus the ten (10) minute portion of the collar to collar premium. Employees will remain or leave the Mine at the direction of the Emergency Control Group.
13.15	a) An employee who reports to work for his regular scheduled shift shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay at his regular straight time classified rate unless he is notified in advance not to report by one of the following methods:
• in person one (1) hour in advance of the shift.
• by phone one (1) hour in advance of the shift.
•	by posting a notice on the bulletin board before the employee leaves the property on his last regular scheduled shift prior to the cancelled regular scheduled shift.
Any alternate work provided shall be performed and will be allotted on a daily shift by shift basis by seniority and qualifications, subject to the allocation of skills.
b) An employee who is scheduled to report for overtime work or mine holiday work and who is subsequently personally notified not to report, will be entitled to compensation equal to four (4) hours pay at his regular straight time rate.
c)
An employee who is scheduled to report for overtime work or mine holiday work and who is subsequently personally notified to
Page 14 of 15
advance or to delay reporting by three (3) hours or more from the original posted start time will be entitled to compensation equal to four (4) hours pay at his regular straight time rate.
13.16	A call-out and emergency work is voluntary unscheduled overtime work where the employee is not so notified during his previous working period. Such work shall be offered and awarded in accordance with Clauses 13.06, 13.07, and the “Voluntary Unscheduled Overtime CallOut Procedure”.
Employees working call-outs and emergency work will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours straight time pay or the actual hours worked at the applicable overtime rate(s) whichever is greater.
13.17	No provision in this Agreement shall entitle an employee to more than one (1) overtime premium payment for the same hours worked.
13.18	This Article is only for the purpose of establishing hours of work and of calculating overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, except as noted in Clauses 13.15 and 13.16 above.
13.19	In the event of a time change due to Daylight Savings Time, the employees shall be paid at the appropriate rate of pay for all hours worked.
Union
Company
Date

Page 15 of 15
ARTICLE 14 RATES OF PAY
14.01	a) The Company and the Union agree that the rates of pay as set forth in
the attached Schedule “A” shall be the minimum rates of pay, shall form part of this Agreement and shall continue to be in effect for the duration of this agreement.
Notwithstanding the above, in the event of a job classification being eliminated or affected during the term of the Agreement, the old job classification and established rate of pay in Schedule “A” will not be utilized during the term of the Agreement unless mutually agreed upon by the parties.
All employees performing work on a special assignment or special project whether or not awarded such temporary vacancy will be entitled to all related provisions (rates of pay, premiums, etc.).
b)	The 10.5 Hour Crew Blended Rate and the 12 Hour 5 Crew Weekend Rate are calculated from the prevailing Schedule “A” base rates of pay in accordance with their applicable established formula as stipulated in Schedule “B” and, are averaged over the whole of the respective regular scheduled work shift.
c)	The rates of pay as set out in Clause 14.01 b) above, will be recalculated when there are any applicable changes to the Collective Agreement and/or the hourly base rates of pay in Schedule “A”.
14.02	Effective April 1, 2015, the shift premium for work performed on the #3 Shift will be paid at seventy-four cents ($0.74) per hour and the shift premium for work performed on the #1 Shift will be paid at one dollar and six cents ($1.06) per hour.
Effective April 1, 2016, the #3 Shift premium will be increased to seventy-six cents ($0.76) per hour and the #1 Shift premium will be increased to one dollar and nine cents ($1.09) per hour.
Effective April 1, 2017, the #3 Shift premium will be increased to seventy-eight cents ($0.78) per hour and the #1 Shift premium will be increased to one dollar and twelve cents ($1.12) per hour.
Shift premium for all work performed on the regular scheduled twelve (12) hour work shifts on the 5 Crew Shift Schedule will be paid at the revised
Page 1 of 5
blended rate of sixty ($0.60) cents per hour. On April 1, 2016 the blended rate will be increased to sixty-two ($0.62) cents per hour and on April 1, 2017, the blended rate will be increased to sixty-three ($0.63) cents per hour.
Shift premium will not be paid to employees working call-outs and emergency work in accordance with Clause 13.16 when such work is less than four (4) hours in length and not continuous with a regular scheduled or overtime shift.
The shift premium payable for overtime attached to a shift will be that of the employee’s scheduled shift.
For the purposes of calculating shift premiums only, #1 Shift is any shift starting between 20:01 hours on the previous day and 04:00 hours on the same day. #2 Shift is any shift starting between 04:01 hours and 12:00 hours on the same day. #3 Shift is any shift starting between 12:01 hours and 20:00 hours on the same day.
When overtime is worked on an employee’s non-scheduled day(s), the shift premium that applies for all continuous hours worked will be determined by the employee’s start time, as per Clause 13.02. The overtime rate will be as defined in Clause 13.04.
14.03	An underground premium of seventy-four cents ($0.74) per hour shall be paid for all time worked underground and when working below the collar in a shaft.
Effective April 1, 2016, the underground premium will be increased to seventy-six cents ($0.76) per hour.
Effective April 1, 2017, the underground premium will be increased to seventy-eight cents ($0.78) per hour.
14.04	a) SATURDAY & SUNDAY PREMIUMS
8 Hour Shift Schedules:
Employees who work Saturday as part of their regular scheduled work week will be paid a premium of seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) per hour for all hours worked on Saturday Shifts.	.
\|UZ-
Page 2 of 5
Employees who work Sunday as part of their regular scheduled work week will be paid a premium of two (2) times their regular straight time rate for all hours worked on Sunday Shifts.
b)	SATURDAY & SUNDAY PREMIUMS
10.5	Hour Shift Schedule:
Employees who work Saturday as part of their regular scheduled work week will be paid a premium of seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) per hour for all hours worked on Saturday Shifts.
Employees who work Sunday as part of their regular scheduled work week will be paid a premium of one (1) times their regular straight time rate and one (1) times their 10.5 hour blended rate per hour for all hours worked on Sunday Shifts.
c)	SATURDAY & SUNDAY PREMIUMS 5 Crew Shift Schedule:
Employees who work Saturday as part of their regular scheduled work week will be paid a premium of seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) per hour for all hours worked on Saturday Shifts.
Employees who work Sunday as part of their regular scheduled work week will be paid a premium of two (2) times their classified weekend rate per hour for all hours worked on Sunday Shifts.
14.05	The calculation of overtime or holiday rates shall not be applied to shift premium, underground premium, Saturday premium or Sunday premium.
14.06	An employee who is temporarily on a transfer, shall receive the rate of the new job or the rate of his regular job, whichever is higher.
14.07	Whenever a new job is established or there is a substantial change in the duties of an existing job, the Company will meet with the Union negotiating committee to negotiate a rate for the new or changed job. This meeting will take place at the earliest practical date. The new rate shall be based on the job classifications and rates contained in Schedule A. If necessary, the Company will establish an interim rate to be used until agreement is reached on a final rate. In the event the parties cannot reach agreement on a final rate, the matter shall be referred to arbitration in accordance with Article 10.
lAJCZ-
Page 3 of 5
It is understood and agreed that each party shall submit its final best offer and the arbitrator shall be limited to choosing one or the other of these offers. If the final rate is greater than the interim rate, a retroactive adjustment shall be made.
14.08	a) All employees working in a shaft from the top of the head frame to the
bottom of the sump will be paid a shaft premium of forty-four cents ($0.44) per hour. The shaft premium of forty-four cents ($0.44) will also be paid to the entire crew engaged on the lowering of major equipment from the centre sheave wheel including slinging equipment or material from or below the skips and the entire crew engaged in mucking the sump.
b)	Effective April 1, 2016, the shaft premium in Clause 14.08 a) above will be increased to forty-five cents ($0.45) per hour.
Effective April 1, 2017, the shaft premium in Clause 14.08 a) above will be increased to forty-six cents ($0.46) per hour.
c)	It is understood and agreed that any employee performing any work specified in Clause 14.08 a) above will additionally be paid no less than a minimum straight time classified Schedule “A” rate of “Shaftman” for all such hours of work performed.
14.09	All underground employees will be paid fifteen (15) minutes collar to collar premium when working full shift, (five (5) min. previous to “collar in” for marshalling, ten (10) min. after “collar out” for wash up)
Employees who remain at work in excess of their scheduled regular or overtime shift underground or who work underground during a shift and are subsequently required to be on surface will not lose the fifteen (15) minute collar to collar premium. Any underground employee who leaves work early will forfeit the ten (10) minute collar out premium and will be paid according to the punch clock.
Underground and any applicable shift, Saturday or Sunday premium will be added to the collar to collar premium and will not be considered as pyramiding.
14.10	Employees in the Maintenance Department holding an Interprovincial Certificate will receive a premium of twelve cents ($0.12) per hour. The premium shall not be paid until the appropriate Interprovincial Certificate is presented, and shall not be paid retroactively.
\hKz~-

Page 4 of 5
14.11	Employees operating the ship loader or the remote rail car mover will receive a premium of forty cents ($0.40) per hour.
14.12	During October through March, the posted Shipper or during exceptionally heavy truck days, the employee assigned to the remote ticketing shack, will receive a premium of forty cents ($0.40) per hour to perform dispatching duties.
Union
Date
Page 5 of 5
ARTICLE 15 MINE HOLIDAYS
15.01	a) For the purposes of this Agreement, the following days shall be recognized as mine holidays. Mine holidays will be observed on the day officially decreed unless the parties mutually agree otherwise.
New Year’s Day Heritage Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
b)	After April 01, 2009, in the event that the Provincial or Federal government proclaims an additional paid holiday to the Employment Standards Act, such holiday will be added to this Article.
c)	All employees who have completed their probationary period shall be entitled to an additional eight (8) hours pay at Christmas at their straight time classified rate.
d)	An employee who works on Christmas Day or New Year’s Day will be entitled to an additional general “floating” holiday with pay for each of these mine holiday’s worked, exclusive of any floating paid holiday as set out in Clause 15.02 (b) and (c) as follows:
i)	Posted eight (8) hour and 5 crew employee’s entitled to an eight (8) hour paid floating holiday at their scheduled straight time rate.
ii)	Posted 10.5 hour employee’s entitled to a 10.5 hour paid floating holiday at their 10.5 hour blended rate of pay.
e)	Work requirements on a mine holiday shall be scheduled in the same manner as overtime and will be offered on a voluntary basis.
The work will be offered to the employees on the applicable day and shift listed within the “Overtime Requirements List”.
Employees who wish to work, will express their interest by signing the correlating day or shift within the “Overtime sign Up List”.
Page 1 of 8
The work will be distributed to the eligible qualified active employees with the lowest number of accumulated mine holiday worked hours as tabulated on the employee’s overtime roster.
All hours worked on mine holidays will be charged against the employee’s applicable mine holiday column on the overtime roster in accordance with Clause 13.10.
f)	Employees are to inform any Coordinator of errors on Statutory/Mine Holiday work that were posted on the “Employees Required to Work List”. Concerns will be acted on as soon as possible.
i)	If there is time for the error to be corrected, the employee’s name shall be added to the applicable “Employees Required to Work List”.
ii)	In the event that an employee reports an error on the “Employees Required to Work List” and there is time to correct the error and, subsequently the error is not corrected, the employee(s) affected will be compensated for all lost wages including premiums.
iii)	In the event of all other improper allocation of Statutory/Mine Holiday work issues, the affected employee(s) will be compensated in the following manner:
•	They will receive pay for half the number of working hours lost for each holiday shift lost at one and one-half (1 1A) times the employee’s applicable classified rate and;
•	The total number of working hours lost for each shift will be subtracted from the employee’s applicable Statutory/Mine Holiday roster hours and;
•	The employee will be entitled to a special lieu day without pay which day shall expire one (1) year from the anniversary date of the applicable Statutory/Mine Holiday.
iv)	If another employee is subsequently removed from the “Employees Required to Work List”, he shall be entitled to compensation equal to four (4) hours pay at his regular straight time rate for each shift removed from.
15.02	a) An employee shall be entitled to holiday pay for the above holidays when on a Company approved leave of absence, pregnancy leave, parental leave, emergency leave, bereavement leave, special paid
Page 2 of 8
retirement leave, off-site training and/or company initiative, disciplinary suspensions, layoff, and when on a lawful strike, as set
out in Clause 15.01 (a) as follows:
i)	Posted eight (8) hour employee’s entitled to eight (8) hours holiday pay at their scheduled straight time rate.
ii)	Posted 10.5 hour employee’s entitled to 10.5 hours holiday pay at their 10.5 hour blended rate of pay.
iii)	Posted 5 crew employee’s who are regularly scheduled to their eight (8) hour work shifts entitled to eight (8) hours holiday pay at their scheduled straight time rate, and;
iv)	Posted 5 crew employees who are regularly scheduled to their two twelve (12) hour Saturday and Sunday work shifts and a holiday occurs on either of these days, the employee will be entitled to:
•	twelve (12) hours holiday pay at his classified weekend rate for each holiday the employee works.
•	be paid his applicable Saturday and/or Sunday classified weekend rate and premium equivalent to his regular scheduled earnings for each holiday the employee does not work.
An employee shall not be entitled to be so paid:
•	If he does not work on a holiday when he has been scheduled to do so; however, an employee shall be paid for such holiday if he has a legitimate reason for being absent from work on the holiday and notifies the Company prior to the start of his shift on such holiday, or prior to the holiday has received the approval of his supervisor for such absence.
•	If he is absent without leave on his regularly scheduled working day immediately preceding or his regularly scheduled working day immediately succeeding a holiday, unless he works on the holiday. Entitlement to holiday pay during absences as stipulated in Clause 15.02 (a) above may require the payment of such pay to be deferred to ensure an employee is not absent without leave under this section.
b)	An employee who works on Shifts #1, #2, or #3, on any of the holidays
as set out in Clause 15.01 (a), shall be paid holiday premium pay for all
Page 3 of 8
such hours worked at two (2) times the applicable straight time rate for all continuous hours worked regardless of what shift and/or day such work happens to continue forward on, exclusive of such holiday pay to which he may be entitled as set out in Clause 15.02 (a) above, and;
Posted 5 crew employees who are regularly scheduled to their two twelve (12) hour Saturday and Sunday work shifts shall be paid holiday premium pay for all such hours worked at two (2) times their applicable classified weekend rate for all continuous hours worked regardless of what shift and/or day such work happens to continue forward on, exclusive of such pay as set out in Clause 15.02 (a) above.
An employee who works on a mine holiday as set out in Clause 15.01 (a) may choose to receive an additional days pay as set out in Clause
15.02	(a) and receive a lieu day or receive a deferred equivalent paid floating holiday.
c)	Should any of the holidays as set out in Clause 15.01 (a) fall within an employee’s vacation period or during an employee’s scheduled day(s) of rest, the employee may choose to receive his applicable holiday pay as set out in Clause 15.02 (a) and receive a lieu day or receive a deferred equivalent paid floating holiday.
15.03	a) Employees who are regularly scheduled to work the # 3 Shift or Afternoon Shift immediately preceding Christmas or New Year’s Day or both shall not be required to report for work and shall be paid as follows:
i)	Posted eight (8) hour employee’s entitled to eight (8) hours pay at their scheduled straight time rate.
ii)	Posted 10.5 hour employee’s entitled to 10.5 hours pay at their 10.5 hour blended rate of pay.
iii)	Posted 5 crew employee’s who are regularly scheduled to their eight (8) hour # 3 Shift entitled to eight (8) hours pay at their scheduled straight time rate, and;
iv)	Posted 5 crew employees who are regularly scheduled to their two twelve (12) hour Saturday and Sunday Afternoon work shifts entitled to be paid his applicable Saturday and/or Sunday classified weekend rate and premium equivalent to his regular scheduled earnings for these shifts.
yutz—
Page 4 of 8
A regular schedule will be deemed to be the longest shift schedule worked during the previous eight (8) week cycle.
b)	Employees shall not be prohibited from volunteering to work overtime on these # 3 Shifts and Afternoon Shifts if the Company schedules work, and shall be paid the rate of double time for all continuous hours worked regardless of what shift and/or day such work happens to continue forward on, at the applicable straight time rate, exclusive of such pay as set out in Clause 15.03 (a) above, and; posted 5 crew employees who are regularly scheduled to their two twelve (12) hour Saturday and Sunday Afternoon work shifts entitled to be paid the rate of double time at his classified weekend rate for all continuous hours worked regardless of what shift and/or day such work happens to continue forward on, exclusive of such pay as set out in Clause 15.03 (a) above.
c)	Regularly scheduled eight (8) hour employees and 5 crew employees who are regularly scheduled to work these # 3 Shifts or Afternoon Shifts immediately preceding Christmas or New Year’s Day or both who are on vacation or a scheduled day of rest as deemed in Clause 15.03 (a) shall be paid at their scheduled wage rate at straight time for eight (8) hours and, regularly scheduled 10.5 hour employee’s entitled to 10.5 hours pay at their 10.5 hour blended rate of pay.
15.04	a) All regular employees shall be entitled to two (2) general “floating” holidays per year with pay as follows:
i)	Posted eight (8) hour employee’s entitled to eight (8) hours pay at their scheduled straight time rate.
ii)	Posted 10.5 hour employee’s entitled to 10.5 hours pay at their 10.5 hour blended rate of pay.
iii)	Posted 5 crew employee’s entitled to one (1) general eight (8) hour floater at their scheduled straight time rate and, one (1) general twelve (12) hour floater at their classified weekend rate. The general twelve (12) hour floater may be utilized to cover absence from a regular scheduled eight (8) hour shift, in which case the employee will be entitled to eight (8) hours pay at the employee’s straight time rate.
With the exception of scheduling single general floating holidays and/or single deferred mine holiday floaters to cover an absence from all regular scheduled work shifts in any given work week of Monday through Sunday, employees may schedule one or more
— C
Page 5 of 8
general “floating” holidays, deferred mine holiday floaters, and lieu days on reasonable notice (normally a minimum of five (5) calendar days) on a day(s) of the employee’s choice, regardless of as to whether or not a single floater pay equals the employees regular scheduled hours and pay for such day and, up to the applicable number of single floaters to equal the employees regular scheduled hours and pay for such day to in effect not be construed as the selling off of paid floating holidays, provided the total number of employees absent for vacation and holiday in the employee’s work group does not exceed the vacation allotment for that work group plus one (1).
The booking of general floating holidays, deferred mine holiday floaters, and lieu days will not be granted and approved in a manner of circumventing another employee from booking a full week of vacation per the vacation allotments of an employee’s particular work group.
Single general floating holidays and/or single deferred mine holiday floaters may be utilized to cover an employee’s absence from all regular scheduled work shifts in any given work week of Monday through Sunday. Employees utilizing general or deferred floating holidays or, a combination of general and/or deferred floating holidays and/or single vacation days to cover their absence from all regular scheduled work shifts in any given work week of Monday through Sunday will be prohibited from working overtime during such work week and will otherwise be considered to be scheduled off work on a paid leave for the entire work week of Monday through Sunday.
Employees scheduling such general or deferred floating holidays or, a combination of general and/or deferred floating holidays and/or single vacation days to cover their absence from all regular scheduled work shifts in any given work week of Monday through Sunday on both of their two (2) regular scheduled twelve (12) hour Saturday & Sunday work shifts who are being paid the “Weekend Rate 5 Crew” in Schedule “A” of the CBA, will be required to utilize two (2) such days on Saturday and three (3) such days on Sunday. An employee is permitted to utilize one (1) twelve (12) hour floater to cover absence on his regular scheduled twelve (12) hour Saturday work shift and two (2) twelve hour floaters to cover absence on his regular scheduled twelve (12) hour Sunday work shift.	„
Page 6 of 8
It is understood and agreed that the scheduling of one (1) lieu day shall cover an employee’s absence on any particular regular scheduled work shift in any given work week of Monday through Sunday.
An employee shall not be entitled to the two (2) yearly paid general floating holidays in accordance with Clause 15.04 (a) when on special paid retirement leave in the event of crossing over between two calendar years on the dates of December 31st and January 01st.
b)	An employee who has completed his first six (6) months of service with the Company shall be entitled to one (1) general floating holiday.
Upon completion of his second (2nd) six (6) months of service he shall be entitled to a second general (2nd) floating holiday.
No employee will be entitled to more than the maximum floating holiday allowance in any calendar year, except as stipulated in Article 15.
c)	Outstanding general floating holidays including the additional general floating holiday earned during New Year’s Day in accordance with Clause 15.01 (d) above that are not scheduled by an employee by November 15th of each calendar year shall be assigned by the Company. The additional general floating holiday earned during Christmas Day in accordance with Clause 15.01 (d) above will be scheduled by November 15th of the following calendar year or the Company shall assign any outstanding floating holidays.
d)	Deferred mine holiday floaters not scheduled and utilized by the first anniversary date following the applicable mine holiday will be paid out to the employee on the applicable pay period.
e)	Lieu days not scheduled and utilized by the first anniversary date following the applicable mine holiday will be considered as forfeited by the employee.
f)	An employee absent from work under Weekly Indemnity, W.S.I.B., or LTD who hold earned general floating holidays and/or deferred mine holiday floaters of which the employee is unable to schedule due to such absence shall have such floaters paid out to the employee upon the applicable expiry date of each individual floater.
Page 7 of 8
15.05	When an employee is drawing Weekly Indemnity or W.S.I.B. and a Mine Holiday occurs during that period, he shall be paid the difference between his holiday pay entitlement as set out in Clause 15.02 (a) and Weekly Indemnity or W.S.I.B. as long as he is receiving Weekly Indemnity or W.S.I.B..
-ii--------------------------------------
Company	Union
k s/,	/S~
Date '	^
Page 8 of 8
ARTICLE 16 VACATION WITH PAY
16.01	The vacation year shall be April 1st to March 31st and the vacation week commences with Monday’s #1 Shift and consists of seven (7) consecutive days.
16.02	All employees who have completed less than one (1) year of continuous service with the Company in any year, shall be entitled to vacation pay equal to four percent (4%) of earnings during the vacation year in which the vacation credit is earned.
16.03	Employees who have completed the following years of service in any calendar year will be entitled to the following weeks of vacation with pay based on the following percentages of the employee’s previous year’s earnings:
Years of Service	Weeks of Vacation	% of pay
1	2	4
5	3	6
10	4	8
17	5	10
25	6	12
16.04	a) Vacations shall be taken within a vacation year, which runs from April 1st to March 31st, at times scheduled by the Company, to cause the least disturbance to the efficient operation of the Mine. So far as practical, preference will be given to the applications for allotment of vacation time on the basis of seniority. The employees shall indicate their preference no later than February 01st of each vacation year. If an employee fails to indicate their preference by February 01st of the vacation year, the Company shall assign any outstanding vacation within such vacation year.
b)	Employees will not be permitted to work while on vacation unless approved by the parties.
c)	Employees will not be required to schedule vacations during a shutdown or layoff.
d)	Notwithstanding the vacation allotment numbers per LOU # 11, a
retiring employee may schedule his final year’s vacation entitlement on


Page! of 4
his Retirement Notice form to be scheduled immediately preceding any entitlement to special paid retirement leave per Clause 20.02. Such vacation will be paid out in 2 week intervals consistent with the regular established pay periods. Following the conclusion of utilizing any such vacation, the employee will then be scheduled to any such entitlement to special paid retirement leave per Clause
20.02	which too shall be paid out in 2 week intervals consistent with the regular established pay periods.
e)	All regular employees with three (3) weeks of vacation shall be entitled to schedule one (1) week of vacation as single days per year and, employees with four (4) weeks or more vacation shall be entitled to schedule two (2) weeks of vacation as single days per year.
Single vacation day entitlement and payment for each single vacation day shall be as follows:
i)	Posted eight (8) hour employee’s and posted 5 Crew employees entitled to five (5) single vacation days per vacation week with pay based on one-fifth of two percent (2%) of the employee’s previous year’s earnings.
ii)	Posted 10.5 hour employee’s entitled to four (4) single vacation days per vacation week with pay based on one-fourth of two percent (2%) of the employee’s previous year’s earnings.
With the exception of scheduling single vacation days to cover an absence from all regular scheduled work shifts in any given work week of Monday through Sunday, employees may schedule one or more single vacation days on reasonable notice (normally a minimum of five (5) calendar days) on a day(s) of the employee’s choice, regardless of as to whether or not the single vacation day pay equals the employees regular scheduled hours and pay for such day and, up to the applicable number of single vacation days to equal the employees regular scheduled hours and pay for such day to in effect not be construed as the selling off of paid vacation time, provided the total number of employees absent for vacation, floaters, and lieu days in the employee’s work group does not exceed the vacation allotment for that work group plus one (1).
The booking of single vacation days will not be granted and approved in a manner of circumventing another employee from booking a full week of vacation per the vacation allotments of an employee’s particular work group.	*
Page 2 of 4
Single vacation days may be utilized to cover an employee’s absence from all regular scheduled work shifts in any given work week of Monday through Sunday. Employees utilizing single vacation days or a combination of single vacation days, general floating holidays and/or deferred mine holiday floaters to cover their absence from all regular scheduled work shifts in any given work week of Monday through Sunday will be prohibited from working overtime during such work week and will otherwise be considered to be scheduled off work on a week’s vacation or on a paid leave for the entire work week of Monday through Sunday.
Employees scheduling such single vacation days or a combination of single vacation days, general floating holidays and/or deferred mine holiday floaters to cover their absence from all regular scheduled work shifts in any given work week of Monday through Sunday on both of their two (2) regular scheduled twelve (12) hour Saturday & Sunday work shifts who are being paid the “Weekend Rate 5 Crew” in Schedule “A” of the CBA, will be required to utilize two (2) single vacation days on Saturday and three (3) single vacation days on Sunday or, will be required to utilize a combination of two (2) single paid days on Saturday and a combination of three (3) single paid days on Sunday. An employee is permitted to utilize one (1) twelve (12) hour floater to cover absence on his regular scheduled twelve (12) hour Saturday work shift and two (2) twelve hour floaters to cover absence on his regular scheduled twelve (12) hour Sunday work shift.
16.05	Pay for regular vacation entitlement due on termination of employment shall be calculated in accordance with the applicable provision of Article 16 and shall be based on the employee’s earnings during the vacation year in which employment is terminated. If necessary, vacation pay shall be adjusted to avoid any duplicate payment.
16.06	If an employee is absent from work under the Weekly Indemnity Plan, Workers’ Safety and Insurance Board Plan, or LTD during the year in which his vacation credit is earned, any payment received by him in the 1st year of absence while under the Weekly Indemnity Plan, the Workers’ Safety and Insurance Board Plan, or LTD shall be deemed to be part of his earnings for the purpose only of determining vacation pay in the qualifying year.
If an employee is absent from work under the Workers’ Safety and Insurance Board Plan or LTD during a 2nd or subsequent year(s) in which his vacation credit is earned and has not worked at least twenty-five (25%) percent of the scheduled hours during that qualifying year(s), any payment received by him
\jjvz-

Page 3 of 4
from the Workers’ Safety and Insurance Board Plan or LTD shall not be deemed to be part of his earnings for the purpose of determining vacation pay in the qualifying year.
16.07	Employees affected by Clause 16.06 may not be required to take their full vacation entitlement, however the employee must take the minimum time off that corresponds to the vacation pay that he has earned rounded up to the nearest week or two (2) weeks vacation time whichever is greater, provided there is an adequate number of weeks remaining in the vacation year. In the event of there not being an adequate number of weeks remaining in the vacation year upon an employee’s return to work, the employee shall be paid out his remaining vacation pay
16.08	An employee who is eligible for LTD, or an employee who will be absent on W.S.I.B. for a prolonged and indefinite period, will not be required to schedule vacation prior to receiving either benefit payment. In the event of there not being an adequate number of weeks remaining in the vacation year upon an employee’s return to work, the employee shall be paid out his remaining vacation pay.
16.09	It is understood and agreed that any vacation pay being paid out to an employee while on Weekly Indemnity will not offset an employee’s time period of benefit eligibility nor the employee’s Weekly Indemnity benefit earnings.
Company	Union
Date
Page 4 of 4
ARTICLE 17
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
17.01	It is the intention of the parties hereto that no employee shall be required to work under conditions which are unsafe or unhealthy, therefore:
a)	The parties agree to endorse and comply with the current Occupational Health and Safety Act, together with any other applicable Health and Safety Legislation and including the respective Regulations thereto; however, the terms of Legislation and Regulations are governed by law and are not subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures of the Collective Agreement.
b)	Any references to Legislation herein expressed shall mean Legislation by and of the Government of the Province of Ontario or the Dominion of Canada as applied at present or as may be revised.
17.02	a) The Company recognizes its responsibility to provide a safe and healthy
working environment for all persons who are affected by the provisions of the Collective Agreement.
b) The Company shall make all necessary and reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment and shall provide protective equipment and other safety devices in accordance with the foregoing legislation, its present practices and as may be deemed appropriate through consultation by the parties hereto.
17.03	a) The parties mutually recognize their obligation to work cooperatively in
the development and maintenance of safe and healthy working conditions. Accordingly, participation in all safety programs is required.
b) The parties further agree to make all reasonable efforts to improve and promote safe and healthy conditions and to encourage employees to observe and comply with all Mine and Legislative Safety Regulations.
17.04	The functions, powers and terms of reference of the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be as outlined in the Occupational Health and Safety Act, and Regulations for Mines and Mining Plants or as additionally provided hereunder which shall minimally include:
a) the Committee shall make inspections once a month of the mine site.
.... <
Page 1 of 4
d)
e)
f)
the Committee shall be provided with all Workers’ Safety and Insurance Board reports, accident and occupational illness reports, other than minor injury reports, near miss reports, incident reports, work refusal reports, and any environmental health and safety studies relating to the mining and salt industry of which the Company, the Committee or the Union are aware and deem to be relevant for the review, consideration and appropriate action by the Committee. The foregoing shall include threshold limit values and appropriate precautions as are available from the Ontario Ministry of Labour.
the Committee shall meet once a month to review and make appropriate recommendations regarding:
•	inspection by the Committee or other authoritative bodies, and any actions on recommendations or directions therefrom;
•	procedures and/or work practices;
•	all accidents or near misses;
•	any health and safety studies and/or reports relevant to the mining industry, or;
•	such other matters as may be referred by the Company, the Union, or as may be decided by the Committee.
The Committee shall consider all such matters including items of previous minutes and action thereon and forthwith make recommendations to the Company.
the Committee will be Co-Chaired by the Company and the Union.
the Committee shall cause to have minutes of each meeting promptly posted and distributed to all members and the parties hereto. Any differences as to the completeness or accuracy of the minutes shall be included in the subsequent minutes.
the Committee members shall be provided adequate prior notice of the time and place of each meeting and shall minimally be remunerated pursuant to the applicable legislation.
Page 2 of 4
17.05	The acting designated Union certified rep. member or his designate of the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall inspect the place where an accident has occurred resulting in a fatality or an employee being critically injured. Union members of the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall investigate accidents involving fatalities and disabling injuries having potential for extended loss of time by an employee.
In addition, the acting designated Union certified rep. member or his designate of the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be contacted within minimal delay to participate in all health & safety incidents and investigations with the intent of further ensuring that all generated incident and investigation reports are signed-off by same when completed. A copy of all such generated reports shall be electronically furnished to the Local Union President when completed.
17.06	The Company shall conduct periodic on site air sampling, noise testing, and hearing loss testing programs by qualified personnel with recognized Government approved equipment. The results of the testing and sampling will be made available to the Joint Health and Safety Committee.
17.07	The Company agrees to provide a safety education program including indoctrination and training program for new employees.
17.08	Joint Health and Safety Committee members who are bargaining unit employees will not act as witnesses in instances of discipline or discharge related to safety violations.
17.09	The Company agrees to continue to implement engineering methods for the establishment and maintenance of a healthy and safe environment.
17.10	Letters of Understanding regarding safe practices and procedures outlining minimum standards for safety and health at the mine site are attached hereto. It is understood that these letters may be amended or other Letters added by agreement of the parties.
17.11	Employees shall not be required by the Company to work underground during periods of power failure, when there is no voice communication at all between underground and surface or when all hoists are inoperative.
17.12	Employees will be reimbursed for the cost of replacing worn or damaged boots, up to a maximum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per pair. The new boots must meet the currently specified level of protection. The receipt,
authorized by the employee’s supervisor and the old boots must be handed into the surface stores for disposal.
New employees must have boots which meet the currently specified level of protection.
In addition, the Company will provide for personal winter footwear at no cost to employees working out of doors during the winter months.
17.13	The Company will provide an employee who requires prescription safety glasses with a maximum of one (1) pair per year. The Company will pay fifty percent (50%) of the cost should damage necessitate a second pair within the same year.
17.14	The Company will provide and pay for the rental and cleaning of personal coverall services as follows:
•	two (2) changes per week (5 coveralls) for all employees.
•	personal lined coveralls for posted employees working out of doors during the winter months.
•	extra changes of coveralls shall be provided in stores.
Upon an employee’s request he shall be granted reasonable additional changes in coveralls.
17.15	The Company will ensure that shared personal protective equipment will be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
17.16	In addition to other injury reports, an employee who is injured while at work shall fill out a first aid slip. The employee’s supervisor will sign this report and the employee will receive a copy.
Date 3
Union
Date
Page 4 of 4
ARTICLE 18 GENERAL
18.01	The Company agrees to provide a board for the posting of Union notices. Such notices shall be for the purpose of conveying information only, must be signed by a Union official and approved by the Company.
18.02	In the event of the death of a family member, an employee will be granted a paid leave of absence which will include being paid for any absence from: Scheduled working shifts, scheduled overtime shifts, Stat/Mine Holidays and all premiums that the employee would have earned if he had worked on or after the date of death, up to and including the date of the funeral, or three (3) days following the funeral if distant from Goderich, which shall be compensated as follows:
•	up to four (4) shifts for the death of an employee’s spouse, child, stepchild, parent, stepparent, sibling, step-sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, grandparent of spouse, step-grandparent, grandchild, grandchild of spouse, step-grandchild, and same-sex spouse.
•	in the event of a winter death and spring burial, one (1) of the shifts may be taken at the time of the burial.
•	up to four (4) shifts for a funeral which is too distant for the employee to practically attend.
•	up to four (4) shifts when no wake or funeral services are held.
Note: Any floaters, lieu days, or single vacation days previously scheduled that
18.03	JURY, WITNESS DUTY, or PUBLIC INSPECTION PANEL
The Company will make up the difference between the regular day's pay and the fee received by any employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, serve on a Public Inspection Panel, or who is subpoenaed to give evidence for the Crown or for a Coroner. An employee will not be required to report for work on any shift, on the day(s) of the Jury, Public Inspection Panel or Witness Duty.
The Company may require the employee to furnish a certificate of service signed by the Clerk of the Court, or the Coroner, before making any payment under this Clause.
fall during this paid leave of absence will be rescheduled by the employee.
Should the bereavement occur during an employee’s vacation period, the vacation period will be extended by the appropriate number of shifts.
Page 1 of 3
18.04 LEADHANDS
If interest between the parties is expressed to utilize leadhands during the term of the Collective Agreement, the Company and Union shall formally meet to develop appropriate terms and conditions mutually agreeable to both the Company and the Union.
18.05	All references to days in this Agreement shall mean working days, unless otherwise stipulated.
18.06	In all cases of interpretation or arbitration of the terms of this Agreement, the text of the original signed copies shall govern.
18.07	The use of the masculine gender in this Agreement includes the feminine.
18.08	The Company agrees to replace personal hand tools owned by employees in the Maintenance Department if the tool is lost or damaged while the employee is working on the Company’s vehicles and equipment.
The Company agrees to provide any specialized tools or equipment required to perform their duties.
18.09	The Company will pay for the renewal of any trade tickets (including MTCU Crane Operator ticket) used in the performance of the employee’s work over the life of the Agreement. Any eligible ticket renewed on or after April 01, 2015 will qualify for reimbursement.
Journeymen who acquire any qualification, certification, or trade ticket while employed with the Company that are provided by or paid for by the Company are required to keep such skills updated through any applicable renewal process and, will exercise such acquired skills on the job.
18.10	The parties agree that the Collective Agreement will be comprised of one (1) consolidated document.
The parties agree to a target date for the printing/distribution of the Collective Agreement booklets to be no later than three (3) months following the date the Collective Agreement becomes ratified.
The parties agree that the Collective Agreement booklets will be printed in the dimensions of four (4”) inches in width and six (6”) in height.
The Company will provide the Local Union with an equivalent amount of Collective Agreement booklets for distribution to Local 16-0 Bargaining Unit members equal to the number of members listed on the seniority list at the time the Collective Agreement becomes ratified, plus one (100) hundred additional copies.
Page 2 of 3
It is understood and agreed that the drafting and editing of the Collective Agreement booklets for print shall be a shared responsibility of both parties.
18.11	APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
If interest between the parties is expressed to develop an apprenticeship program during the term of the Collective Agreement, the Company and Union shall formally meet to develop appropriate terms and conditions mutually agreeable to both the Company and the Union.
18.12	All references to the term; “parties” in this Agreement shall mean the sole Bargaining Agent and the Company.
Union
Date
Page 3 of 3
ARTICLE 19 GROUP INSURANCE
19.01 The Company shall provide the Group Benefit Plans outlined below during the term of this Agreement. The coverage provided under the Plans may not be modified in any way including when the benefit carrier is changed without the written consent of the Union.
The Company will provide a signed up to date “Full Text” copy of all Group Benefit Plan documents to the Local Union Office and, to any eligible participating employee who requests a copy of such as outlined in the plan documents. In the event of there being a modification to any benefit in the Group Benefit Plans, a signed up to date revised “Full Text” copy of the Group Benefit Plan document will be provided to the Union with the modifications clearly outlined.
The provisions on group benefits in the Collective Agreement shall take precedence in the event of an inconsistency between the Collective Agreement and any Group Benefit Plan or Contract which applies to the insured employee and to which the Policyholder or the Company is a party.
a)	ELIGIBILITY
All active, full-time employees are eligible to participate in the Group Benefit Plans. The effective date of coverage is dependant upon the individual benefit. All Group Benefits Plans are administered in accordance with the terms and conditions of the respective Plan Documents.
b)	WEEKLY INDEMNITY
Weekly Indemnity (Wl) benefits provide a portion of an employee’s wages during periods of disability. Wl shall be paid at sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2h%) of an employee’s classified (Schedule “A”) straight time rate multiplied by forty (40) hours, with compulsory participation and integrated with government plans.
Wl becomes payable upon any of the following:
i)	the first (1st) day due to non-occupational accident;
Page 1 of 14
ii)	the first (1st) day due to hospitalization;
iii)	the first (1st) day due to out-patient hospital care which involves a hospital stay of at least four (4) hours;
iv)	after the third (3rd) day due to illness.
v)	In the event that the period of disability resulting from the illness exceeds fourteen (14) calendar days, Wl will be payable from the first day of absence.
Note: In determining Wl eligibility for employees working the 5 Crew shift schedule; regular scheduled Saturday’s will be counted as two (2) days of absence and regular scheduled Sunday’s will be counted as three (3) days of absence.
Wl is payable for a maximum of thirty-two (32) weeks to employees who continue active employment with the Company up until an employee reaches seventy (70) years of age.
It is understood and agreed that any vacation pay and floating holidays being paid out to an employee while on Weekly Indemnity will not offset an employee’s time period of Weekly Indemnity benefit eligibility nor the employee’s Weekly Indemnity benefit earnings.
Employees should refer to the plan booklet for exceptions and limitations.
c)	LIFE INSURANCE
Coverage is three (3) times the employee’s straight time classified Schedule “A” rate multiplied by two thousand and eighty (2080) and adjusted to the nearest one hundred dollars ($100.00). Employees should refer to the plan booklet for details.
Coverage is reduced to one and one-half (VA) times the employee’s straight time classified Schedule “A” rate multiplied by two thousand and eighty (2080) and adjusted to the nearest one hundred dollars ($100.00) when an employee reaches sixty-five
Page 2 of 14
(65) years of age. Employees should refer to the plan booklet for
details.
Coverage is reduced to twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) when an employee reaches seventy (70) years of age.
It is understood and agreed that there will be no Aggregate Limit per accident
d)	ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT
Coverage is three (3) times the employee’s straight time classified Schedule “A” rate multiplied by two thousand and eighty (2080) and adjusted to the nearest one hundred dollars ($100.00). Employees should refer to the plan booklet for details.
Coverage is reduced to one and one-half {VA) times the employee’s straight time classified Schedule “A” rate multiplied by two thousand and eighty (2080) and adjusted to the nearest one hundred dollars ($100.00) when an employee reaches sixty-five (65) years of age. Employees should refer to the plan booklet for details.
Coverage is reduced to twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) when an employee reaches seventy (70) years of age.
It is understood and agreed that there will be no Aggregate Limit per accident.
e)	RETIREE LIFE AND AD&D INSURANCE
Life and AD&D insurance in the amount of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) will be provided to employees who retire on or after age fifty-five (55) with at least five (5) years of service.
f)	MAJOR MEDICAL
The Major Medical benefit is designed to complement the Provincial Health Plan. Should the Provincial Plan change to include any of the expenses currently eligible under this plan, the Compass Minerals Canada Corp. Plan will automatically adjust accordingly.
Page 3 of 14
Major Medical benefits are extended to employees (and their eligible dependants) who continue active employment with the Company after age sixty-five (65) years of age.
The benefit pays a percentage of all eligible expenses, including skilled nursing care and outpatient care, recommended as necessary by a physician which are reasonable and customary in the area in which the expenses are incurred and which are in excess of any other benefits payable under this plan and in excess of the deductible.
i)	The deductible is the amount of eligible expenses each calendar year which must be paid in full by the employee before any benefits are payable. The deductible is twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for those insured for employee only coverage; or fifty dollars ($50.00) for those insured for employee and dependent coverage.
Eligible expenses incurred in the last three (3) months of the calendar year which are not sufficient to be applied against the deductible for that year will also be applied against the deductible for the next year.
ii)	The appropriate portion of the following expenses will be paid, provided the expenses charged are reasonable and medically necessary:
Prescription Drugs at one hundred percent (100%) after co-pay as provided by the Prescription Card system described in the plan booklet
Mental and Nervous Disorders payable at eighty percent (80%)
General and Medical Expenses payable at eighty percent (80%). This benefit provides eighty percent (80%) coverage for initial placement of insulin pumps and, eighty percent (80%) coverage for insulin pump replacements every twenty-four (24) months.
The Major Ontario Medical benefit shall provide coverage for emergency treatment outside Ontario. The plan will reimburse
Page 4 of 14

f
emergency treatment costs according to reasonable and customary fees for the area in which they were incurred as follows:
1)	in excess of the benefits provided by the provincial hospital insurance program and under the basic hospital benefit, for a maximum of thirty-one (31) days per period of disability,
2)	for the professional services of a physician over and above the amounts recognized by OHIP.
This coverage is subject to any and all other plan provisions (e.g. deductible).
Employees should refer to the plan booklet for details regarding all group benefits.
g)	HOSPITAL COVERAGE
Full semi-private hospital coverage will be provided as part of the Group Insurance Plan. If a semi-private room is not available, private room hospital coverage will be provided if available until a semi-private room becomes available. Private room hospital coverage will be provided for thirty (30) days for those deemed terminally ill.
Hospital Coverage is extended to employees (and their eligible dependants) who continue active employment with the Company after age sixty-five (65) years of age.
h)	LONG TERM DISABILITY
The Long Term Disability Plan (LTD) shall be administered in accordance with the terms of the Plan Document and shall contain the following governing provisions:
i)	Eligibility - LTD shall be compulsory for all full-time regular employees who are participants in and who are covered by Wl benefits under the Group Benefit Plans.
Page 5 of 14
An employee that reaches sixty-five (65) years of age who continues to remain actively employed will not be eligible for Long Term Disability coverage.
ii)	Qualifying Period - “Qualifying Period” means thirty-two (32) consecutive and cumulative weeks of Wl Benefits for the same disability.
iii)	Definition of Disability - “Disability” shall mean a covered employee who has received thirty-two (32) weeks of benefits under the weekly indemnity plan and who, for an additional period of up to thirty-six (36) months, is unable, because of nonoccupational disease or accidental bodily injury, to perform any and every duty of any occupation in the Mine for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience and thereafter is unable to perform any and every duty of any occupation in the Goderich area for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience.
iv)	Amount of Benefits - All employees who are actively at work on the effective date of the plan or any amendments thereto shall be provided with LTD benefits equal to fifty percent (50%) of regular straight time Schedule “A” hourly rate multiplied by two thousand and eighty (2080) and divided by twelve (12) up to a maximum monthly payment of three thousand and five hundred dollars ($3,500.00).
The amount of benefits shall be reduced by any primary payments made under any Government disability plan, Workers’ Safety and Insurance plan, or any other non-private disability income plans, such that disability benefits from all sources shall not exceed eighty-five percent (85%) of an employee’s regular straight time Schedule “A” hourly rate.
The amount of LTD benefit shall be increased throughout the year in correlation with increases in the Consumer Price Index as outlined in the plan documents.
The amount of benefit shall not be reduced by Disability Pension payments under War Veterans’ or Workers’ Safety and Insurance Act if the disability is unrelated.
.	Page 6 of 14	. i
Employees should refer to the plan booklet for exclusions and
other details.
v)	Duration of Benefits To Be The Earlier Of:
1)	a benefit period equal to months of service;
2)	age sixty-five (65);
3)	date of retirement;
4)	three (3) months following date of death; or
5)	the date the employee ceases to be disabled in accordance with the definition of disability above.
vi)	Group Insurance and Pension Plan benefits while receiving LTD
1)	Pension Entitlement - Employees on LTD will continue to receive the employer contributions as per the terms and conditions of the Pension Plan.
2)	Disability pension payments will only become payable as per the terms and conditions of the Pension Plan.
3)	Company Paid Life Insurance - Coverage will be maintained on a waiver of premium basis. Installment life benefits will be paid if an employee under age sixty-five (65) continues to be totally disabled and he no longer has benefit entitlement under the Wl and LTD Plans.
4)	Group Accidental Death and Dismemberment - Coverage will be maintained on a waiver of premium basis.
5)	Major Medical and Dental - Coverage will be maintained in accordance with the conditions applying under the Plan Document.
6)	An employee on LTD shall not accumulate credit for vacation or holidays.
Page 7 of 14
7)	An employee who returns to work after being on LTD shall be credited with accumulated service.
i)	DENTAL PLAN
The Company shall provide a dental plan with participation compulsory for all employees covered by the bargaining unit on the following basis:
i)	Eligible Expenses
Eligible Expenses under this plan include expenses for dental treatment (including emergency treatment) recommended as necessary by a physician or dentist which are not in excess of the minimum fee specified in the Dental Fee Schedule for the Province of Ontario for the year prior to the year in which service is rendered.
ii)	Module I Basic Coverage
The plan provides employees and their eligible dependants with reimbursement of ninety percent (90%) of the cost of the following expenses: one (1) diagnostic preventive therapy check-up every six (6) months for each covered person, oral surgery, minor restorative dentistry, repairs of an existing appliance, endodontics and periodontics. Employees should refer to the plan booklet for details.
iii)	Module II Major Restorative
The Company will provide a Module II Dental Plan which provides	employees	and	their	eligible	dependants	with
reimbursement of eighty percent (80%) of the cost of the following expenses: crowns and inlays, replacement or creation of an appliance and services of a licensed Denturist. Employees should refer to the plan booklet for details.
iv)	Module III Orthodontics
The Company will provide a Module III Dental Plan which provides	employees	and	their	eligible	dependants	with
reimbursement of fifty percent (50%) of their cost of orthodontic treatment, vertical dimension correction, correction of temporomandibular joint dysfunction, or full mouth reconstruction, subject to a two thousand and four hundred
dollar ($2,400.00) lifetime maximum per covered dependant. Employees should refer to the plan booklet for details.
v)	Administration
These plans will be administered in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan Document: the decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle will be made by the Company.
vi)	Effective Date of Coverage
Eligibility for these benefits shall apply only to those employees who are actually at work on the effective date of the plan. If an employee is not actively at work on the effective date of this plan or any amendment thereof, coverage will commence upon return to full-time work. New employees become eligible for coverage after completion of the Probationary Period described in Clause 6.01.
Dental Plan benefits are extended to employees (and their eligible dependants) who continue active employment with the Company after age sixty-five (65) years of age.
vii)	Integration with other Plans
If an employee is insured simultaneously under any other plan which provides benefits similar to those provided under this plan, payment of benefits for that employee or his eligible dependants under this plan will be determined by the coordination of benefits provision.	The payments from all
sources will not exceed the total of actual expenses incurred.
viii)	Integration with Government Plans
The plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by Provincial or Federal legislation. If during the life of this Agreement Provincial or Federal Governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by the plan, the plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits. Any resulting premium savings shall accrue to the Company and employees in accordance with the cost sharing in effect.
Page 9 of 14
j)	FAMILY EYEGLASS PLAN
The Company shall provide a family eyeglass plan. The plan will provide a maximum benefit of three hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00) every twenty-four (24) months for employees and eligible dependants. This benefit will cover the cost of frames, lenses, fitting of prescription glasses, and contact lenses. The plan will also provide one hundred percent (100%) of the cost every twenty-four (24) months, with a maximum payment of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) towards eye examinations and digital retinal photos.
Family Eyeglass Plan is extended to employees (and their eligible dependants) who continue active employment with the Company after age sixty-five (65) years of age.
k)	COST SHARING FOR PREMIUMS
The Company shall contribute one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost of these benefits except as follows:
i)	Module II, Dental Plan premiums will be fifty percent (50%) paid by participating employees.
ii)	as provided in 19.01 (m) and (n).
l)	EFFECTIVE DATE OF COVERAGE AND E.l. REBATE
Changes in the group insurance plan will take place only for those employees who are actively at work as of the effective date, who would otherwise qualify and for employees off work who otherwise qualify, as of their first full day of active employment thereafter.
In view of the improvement in Weekly Indemnity, Life Insurance, and the introduction of the Major Medical Plan and the increased premium costs to be paid by the Company, the employee’s share of the premium reduction (5/12 portion) of the Employment Insurance Premium for the effective date under the Employment Insurance Act from the effective date of implementation shall be retained by the Company.
m)	CONTINUATION OF BENEFITS FOR LAY-OFF
Employees who have completed the Probationary Period described in Clause 6.01 shall have Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Major Medical, Semi-private hospitalization, and Dental benefits continued on the cost sharing as provided above until the first of the month following ninety (90) days of lay-off. Thereafter, the employee may maintain benefits as listed herein for up to thirty-five (35) weeks of lay-off by paying fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the premiums.
n)	CONTINUATION OF BENEFITS FOR EARLY RETIREES AND DEPENDANT SPOUSES.
i)	The Company agrees to pay fifty percent (50%) of the cost of Major Medical, Hospital Coverage, Dental (Modules I & III) and Vision Care premiums for employees who retire between the ages of fifty-five (55) and sixty-four (64) and their dependant spouse and eligible dependants as described in the Compass Minerals Canada Corp. group plan until the employee turns age sixty-five (65).
Employees who retire between the ages of fifty-five (55) and sixty-four (64) may elect to voluntarily apply for Dental Module II coverage by paying one-hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the coverage premiums.
ii)	If such an employee reaches age sixty-five (65), the Company agrees to pay fifty percent 50%) of the premiums for Major Medical, Hospital Coverage, Dental (Modules I & III) and Vision Care for their dependent spouse and eligible dependants.
Optional Dental Module II voluntary coverage may be obtained for the retired employee’s dependent spouse and eligible dependants by paying one-hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the coverage premiums.
These benefits will cease the earlier of sixty (60) months or until the last day of the month in which the spouse reaches the age of sixty-five (65).
VIA?-"
Page 11 of 14
iii)The Company agrees to pay fifty percent (50%) of the premiums for Major Medical, Hospital Coverage, Dental (Modules I & III) and Vision Care coverage for the surviving dependent spouse and eligible dependants of a deceased retiree.
Surviving dependants may elect to voluntarily apply for Dental Module 11 coverage by paying one-hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the coverage premiums.
These benefits will cease if the spouse qualifies for coverage through another plan, or the earlier of sixty (60) months or until the last day of the month in which the spouse reaches the age of sixty-five (65).
o)	CONTINUATION OF BENEFITS FOR DEATH
The Company shall continue to provide Major Medical coverage to dependants of deceased employees until the earlier of:
i)	six (6) months following the first of the month after the employee’s death; or
ii)	the last day of the month during which the employee’s spouse reaches age sixty-five (65).
p)	SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL BENEFITS
The Company will pay for a portion of the following Supplementary Medical Benefits, provided the expenses charged are reasonable and medically necessary as recommended or prescribed by the attending Physician.
Supplementary Medical Benefits are extended to employees (and their eligible dependants) who continue active employment with the Company after age sixty-five (65) years of age.
i) HEARING AIDS
The Company will pay up to seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) every sixty (60) months for prescribed hearing aids for employees and covered dependants. This benefit shall not apply to the cost of batteries.
ii)	PROSTHETIC APPLIANCES
The Company will pay fifty percent (50%) of the cost of Prosthetic Appliances, excluding such appliances intended for cosmetic purposes, as required by employees or their covered dependants.
iii)	DURABLE MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
The Company will pay eighty percent (80%) of the cost of Durable Medical Equipment up to a limit of two thousand and five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) per year as required by employees or their covered dependants.
iv)	SMOKING CESSATION ASSISTANCE
The Company will pay up to a life time maximum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per employee for Smoking Cessation Assistance for employees or their covered dependants. Such assistance includes prescription and over-the-counter medications, nicotine patches, hypnotherapy and acupuncture as recommended by the attending Physician.
v)	ACUPUNCTURE, CHIROPRACTIC, and MASSAGE THERAPY
The Company will pay the cost for visits to a qualified Massage Therapist, Acupuncturist or Chiropractor for employees and their covered dependants. The total amount of combined benefits for both this section and sections
(vi)	(“PODIATRIST”), and (vii)(“OSTEOPATH”) shall be limited to seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) per year.
vi)	PODIATRIST
The Company will pay eighty percent (80%) of the cost for visits to a qualified Podiatrist for employees and their dependants. The total amount of combined benefits for both this section	and	sections (v)(“ACUPUNCTURE,
CHIPOPRACTIC	and	MASSAGE THERAPY”), and
(vii)	(“OSTEOPATH”) shall be limited to seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) per year.
Page 13 of 14
vii)	OSTEOPATH
The Company will pay seventy percent (70%) of the cost for visits to a qualified Osteopath for employees and their dependants. The total amount of combined benefits for both this section and sections (v)(“ACUPUNCTURE, CHIPOPRACTIC AND MASSAGE THERAPY”), and (vi)(“PODIATRIST”) shall be limited to seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) per year.
viii)	SPEECH THERAPY
The Company will pay eighty percent (80%) of the cost for visits to a qualified Speech Therapist for employees and covered dependants. This benefit provides unlimited coverage.
Date
Date
Page 14 of 14
ARTICLE 20 PENSION PLAN
20.01	The Company Retirement Plan for Goderich Mine (consisting of the Registered Pension Plan and the Deferred Profit Sharing Plan) is available to employees in accordance with the terms and conditions of said Plan. The Retirement Plan forms part of this Agreement and will be administered in accordance with the terms of the Plan. The current Company contribution levels as set forth in the Retirement Plan may not be modified in any way without the written consent of the Union.
The Company will provide a signed “Full Text” copy of the Registered Pension Plan and the Deferred Profit Sharing Plan to the Local Union Office by January 31st of every year.
The Company will ensure that a retiring employee will be eligible to benefit from the Company match of voluntary contributions made to the Deferred Profit Sharing Plan in the year they retire. Any payment due shall be determined in March of the following year and shall be payable to the retired employee’s RRSP.
20.02	An employee who has attained fifty-five (55) years of age and twenty (20) years of continuous service shall be entitled to a paid retirement leave immediately prior to the commencement of his selected retirement date in accordance with the following schedule:
Payment for each week of this leave shall be calculated as forty (40) times the employee's classified rate at the time of the employee's last day worked. In the event of a wage increase occurring during this paid leave, the employee’s classified rate will be increased accordingly. Payment of
Age at Retirement
Weeks of Leave
55
56
57
58
59
60 61 62 63
2
3
4
5 10 10 10 10 15
64 or older
special paid retirement leave will be paid out in 2 week intervals consistent with the regular established pay periods.
In the event of a Mine Holiday occurring while an employee is on special paid retirement leave, the employee shall be entitled to such holiday pay in accordance with Article 15, however such pay shall be paid out at this time and not deferred.
An employee shall not be entitled to the two (2) yearly paid general floating holidays in accordance with Article 15 when on special paid retirement leave in the event of crossing over between two calendar years on the dates of December 31st and January 01st.
An employee shall be entitled to Group Insurance benefits in accordance with Article 19 during the period of being on special paid retirement leave.
No employee will be permitted to work on-site during such leave.
Company
Union
Date

Page 2 of 2
ARTICLE 21 TRAINING
21.01 Mining & Surface Operations Training Program
1.	Preamble
The parties recognize the importance and value of ensuring that Mining and Surface Department employees have a thorough knowledge and understanding of the principles of Occupational Health and Safety, together with methods, practices and skills of their occupation in order to maximize safety for themselves and fellow workers in meeting the needs of Industry during their employment.
Additionally recognized is the need to provide employees the opportunity to acquire certification of their qualifications appropriate to the needs of the Mine and as it becomes available through appropriate Government Ministry or as may otherwise be recognized by the parties if not designated or regulated officially.
2.	Purpose
The Mining and Surface Training Program is provided to ensure employees are equipped with the skills and knowledge to safely and effectively fulfill all the Mining and Surface functions including Schedule “A” Job Classifications appropriate to the Mine and Surface requirements.
3.	Scope
The parties recognize that Clause 6.03 applies to training and the application with regard to training will be to meet the needs of the operation with a view to relatively equal distribution of qualifications between crews as determined by establishing an Ideal Compliment for each job. The Ideal Compliment will be generally a minimum to place each crew on a level playing field. Additional training needs will be determined by the Company with a view to adequate coverage during peak vacation time.
The order of training priority shall normally be new employees, at risk employees, postings, ideal compliment, refresher, and advancement. It is understood and agreed that employees holding a multi-function utilityman job classification may receive more training in advance of the said training priority.
4.	Determination of Trainees
Subject to the order of training priority as stipulated in Item #3 above, the allocation of training opportunities will be a transparent process with training opportunities posted on the training board for seven (7) days. The determination of who gets the training will be agreed to by the departmental training representatives based on seniority of applicants, crew training becomes available on, timing of last training opportunity and diversity requirements of crew. Any disagreements on who gets the training will be addressed by the Joint Training Committee Co-chairs. Failing an agreement between the Joint Training Committee Co-chairs, the matter shall be forwarded to the Company to make a final decision on such matters.
6. Tracking Qualifications
The parties agree that refresher training is a vital component of our training system that needs to be implemented. It is further recognized that refresher training is a valuable tool to fight complacency. Therefore management will commission a computer tracking system by April 1, 2010 to track qualifications and ensure that a notice requiring refresher training is issued once a Qualification has not been active for twenty-four (24) months. After thirty (30) months the Qualification will be suspended until the refresher training is completed, at which time it will be reactivated. The Joint Training Committee will establish the parameters for the above refresher training by April 1, 2010. The refresher training program will apply to all departments at the Goderich Mine.
When possible, training and testing will be scheduled in advance and the employees will be notified as soon as possible of their new schedules if any.
Page 2 of 7
Testing will be scheduled once the requirements as laid out in Operating Procedure 103 have been completed and the Record of Training returned to the Training Department.
21.02	Maintenance Training Program
1.	Preamble:
The Parties recognize the importance and value of ensuring that Maintenance Department employees have a thorough knowledge of methods, practices and skills of their trades in order to meet the needs of the Mine and to acquire the appropriate certificates of qualification or recognition available through the Ministry of Colleges and Universities, or as may otherwise be recognized by the parties if not designated or regulated officially. The Maintenance Training Program will consist of two parts: The Safety Awareness and Operators Program and the Maintenance Mentoring Program.
2.	The Maintenance Safety Awareness and Operators Program
a)	Scope
The scope of this program is to provide instruction, awareness and operator training on all the facets of the maintenance job duties to meet the needs of the Mine. This training will include all training programs listed in the Maintenance Training Matrix, the Equipment Familiarization Program, Operator qualifications under GM OP 103 and any new training programs deemed necessary by the Company or as agreed by the parties.
The order of training priority shall be new employees, at risk employees, postings, ideal compliment, refresher, and advancement.
b)	Determination of Trainees
The parties recognize that Clause 6.03 applies to training and the application with regard to training will be to meet the needs of the operation. The allocation of training opportunities will be
Page 3 of 7

a transparent process with training opportunities posted on the board for seven (7) days. The determination of who gets the training will be agreed to by the departmental training representatives based on seniority of applicants, crew training becomes available on, timing of last training opportunity and the diversity requirements of the crew. Any disagreements on who gets the training will be addressed by the Joint Training Committee Co-chairs. Failing an agreement between the Joint Training Committee Co-chairs, the matter shall be forwarded to the Company to make a final decision on such matters.
c)	Tracking Qualifications
The Maintenance Departmental Training Representatives will ensure that employee job qualifications under GM OP 103 do not become stale dated through implementation of a departmental tracking system. Refresher training will be made available when required.
3.	The Maintenance Mentoring Program
The Company agrees to enter into a Maintenance Mentoring Program to qualify present and future Maintenance Department employees in additional trades appropriate to the Goderich Mine requirements and thereby provide the opportunity of Ministry of Colleges and Universities Certification.
The Maintenance Mentoring Program is to upgrade qualifications of present and future Maintenance Department employees with a Certificate of Qualification in the following trades:
•	Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic (Regulated)
•	Industrial Mechanic - Millwright (Regulated)
•	Industrial Electrician (Regulated)
a)	Qualifications
Employees who are certified and/or practicing as a Group 1 Journeyman at the Mine are eligible to apply for this program.
The employee must be able to satisfy the appropriate college entrance criteria.
b)	Mentoring
Successful applicants will be partnered with a certified journeymen in the trade selected, whenever the opportunity on their crew becomes available, to gain the experience they do not have which will enhance his skills and ability through hands on experience with that partner coupled with related instruction at a College of Applied Arts and Technology. This enhanced training should expedite the Qualification process. A review will be undertaken every six (6) months to assess the progress of the partnership and establish the next steps to be taken.
c)	Oversight
The Joint Training Committee will set up the program, solicit for journeymen to do the mentoring, screen applicants for partnering, monitor and assess the program and report to the parties.
d)	Goal
The goal would be to create and expand the mentoring process to ensure that the Company’s own employees have the necessary skills and experience to perform all the regular maintenance work that is required at the Mine. A further benefit of this program would be to save the Company money by reducing the contracting out of work that we have the skills to perform with our own employees.
21.03	a) An employee who is receiving training either for backup or as the result of a job posting, will be paid at the rate of the job on which he is being trained.
b) An employee who is receiving training off site shall be covered by the Collective Agreement. Any special needs shall be arranged by agreement of the parties.
Page 5 of 7
c) The Company will reimburse participants attending out of town training and/or a company initiative as follows:
i)	On regular scheduled days of work missed due to attending an event, or when travelling, or during situations of remaining in compliance with the ESA hours of rest, full wages and all applicable premiums shall be paid based on the employees regular shift schedule. The Company does not pay overtime.
ii)	When an employee participates in attending an event on his regular scheduled day of rest, he shall be paid eight (8) hours pay per day at his straight time classified rate.
iii)	When an employee travels on his regular scheduled day of rest, he shall be paid for all hours so actually travelled up to a maximum of eight (8) hours per day at his straight time classified rate to reach or return from the destination.
iv)	The Company will pay the full cost of a rental car. Where an employee has received prior approval to use their vehicle, they shall be reimbursed at the established rate of fifty-three ($0.53) cents per kilometer traveled. Taxi services to and from the training site/event and the overnight accommodation will be reimbursed.
v)	The Company will book single room accommodation for out of town participants. Accommodation charges are limited to the room rate, room taxes and hotel parking only. Participants are responsible for any additional costs including room service, telephone, TV, pay-per-view, et cetera, (telephone calling cards are available from the company)
vi)	The maximum meal allowance is fifty-two dollars ($52.00) per day; composed of breakfast eleven dollars ($11.00), lunch sixteen dollars ($16.00) and dinner twenty-five dollars ($25.00). Those arriving the night before the training/event and staying in the hotel will be reimbursed for dinner not to exceed twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
\f^Z-
Page 6 of 7
vii)	All required receipts (except for a ten dollar ($10.00) per-diem per day) must be submitted with the expense claim.
21.04	RECOGNITION OF SKILLS
The Company recognizes that employees in the Maintenance Department may acquire skills in one (1) or more trades in which the employee is not certified. Provided the trade is one of the following (Regulated) trades; Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic, Industrial Mechanic - Millwright, or Industrial Electrician, and the employee can and will exercise these skills on the job, the Company will assist the employee in documenting his expertise for the regulating authority.
In addition, provided the employee meets the minimum requirement for hours worked in the trade, and can satisfy the appropriate college entrance criteria, the Company shall consider granting him a paid leave of absence to attend college to complete the academic requirements for the trade. The leave will not exceed four (4) months, or the duration of the course, whichever is less and on graduation, must earn the employee certified trade status.
The Company will grant this paid leave up to a maximum of two (2) employees at any one time and up to a maximum of four (4) employees per year contingent upon manning requirements.
The Company will award a graduating employee a lump sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in lieu of personal expenses incurred.
Company
Union
Date
//y *0-0/ ft
Page 7 of 7
ARTICLE 22
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
22.01	This Agreement shall become effective as of the 1st day of April, 2015 and shall remain in full force and effect until the 31st day of March, 2018 and from year to year thereafter unless either party gives notice to the other party of an intent to terminate or amend this agreement.
Such notice shall be given in writing not earlier than ninety (90) days, and at least thirty (30) days before the expiry date of this agreement or the anniversary date of any subsequent period in which this agreement remains in effect.
22.02	The initial meeting for the purpose of negotiating a modified Agreement shall be held within thirty (30) days after the above notice is given. Pending negotiations of any proposed modifications in the terms of this Agreement, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Union
Date

Date

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Union have caused these presents to be executed by their duly authorized representative.
COMPASS MINERALS CANADA CORP. Goderich, Ontario Goderich Mine
Steve Berger
Jason Bache
Mark Rowe
Mike Gauthier
John Bird
UNIFOR UNION LOCAL 16-0 Goderich, Ontario
Glenn Sonier
Lionel Carter
Gary Lynch
Larry Gaynor
Lance Greer Jr.
Ron Abell
Ratified this_______day of___________________, 2015
Union
AIV -xoiS hie x

Date
SCHEDULE“A”
HOURLY RATES OF PAY
MINING DEPARTMENT	April 1, 2015	April 1, 2016	April 1, 2017
Group 1			
CM Operator	$39.57	$40.69	$41.85
Weekend Rate 5 Crew	$43.67	$44.97	$46.33
Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew	$44.28	$45.54	$46.83
Group 2			
CM Utilityman	$38.28	$39.40	$40.56
General Utilityman	$38.28	$39.40	$40.56
R-C Equipment Operator	$38.28	$39.40	$40.56
Weekend Rate 5 Crew	$42.16	$43.47	$44.82
Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew	$42.84	$44.09	$45.39
Group 3			
General Miner	$37.71	$38.83	$39.99
Maintenance Utilityman	$37.71	$38.83	$39.99
Services Utilityman	$37.71	$38.83	$39.99
Weekend Rate 5 Crew	$41.50	$42.80	$44.16
Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew	$42.20	$43.45	$44.75
Group 4			
Mech. Scaler Operator	$37.55	$38.67	$39.83
Processing Utilityman	$37.55	$38.67	$39.83
Weekend Rate 5 Crew	$41.31	$42.62	$43.97
Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew	$42.02	$43.28	$44.57
Group 5			
Backchecker	$37.42	$38.54	$39.70
Bench Blaster	$37.42	$38.54	$39.70
Bench Drill Pattern Marker	$37.42	$38.54	$39.70
Diamond Drill Operator	$37.42	$38.54	$39.70
Face Loader Operator	$37.42	$38.54	$39.70
Face Scaler	$37.42	$38.54	$39.70
Roof Bolter Operator	$37.42	$38.54	$39.70
Small Drill Operator Truck (incl. Waste Truck) Processing Operator Processing Helper Weekend Rate 5 Crew Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew
Group 6
Utility Loader Operator Weekend Rate 5 Crew Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew
$37.42	$38.54
$37.42	$38.54
$37.42	$38.54
$37.42	$38.54
$41.16	$42.46
$41.88	$43.13
$37.24	$38.36
$40.95	$42.25
$41.67	$42.93
Group 7
Material Handling Crew Haulage Serviceman Equipment Washer Weekend Rate 5 Crew Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew
$36.95	$38.07
$36.95	$38.07
$36.95	$38.07
$40.61	$41.92
$41.35	$42.60
Group 8		
Clean Up Crew	$36.84	$37.96
Grader & WW Operator	$36.84	$37.96
Ventilation Crew	$36.84	$37.96
Packer/Tub/WW Operator	$36.84	$37.96
Sanitation Operators	$36.84	$37.96
U/G Stores Material Handler	$36.84	$37.96
Water Truck Operator	$36.84	$37.96
Weekend Rate 5 Crew	$40.48	$41.79
Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew	$41.23	$42.48
Group 9
Unposted Labourer	$36.36
Weekend Rate 5 Crew	$39.92
Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew
$40.69

$37.48
$41.23
$41.94
Page 2 of 4
$39.70
$39.70
$39.70
$39.70
$43.82
$44.43
$39.52
$43.61
$44.22
$39.23
$39.23
$39.23
$43.27
$43.90
$39.12
$39.12
$39.12
$39.12
$39.12
$39.12
$39.12
$43.14
$43.78
$38.64
$42.58
$43.24
Probationary Labourer Weekend Rate 5 Crew Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew
$35.48
$38.89
$39.70
$36.60
$40.20
$40.96
UNDERGROUND AND SURFACE MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENTS
Journeyman Mobile Mechanic Journeyman Millwright Journeyman Electrician Journeyman Carpenter Weekend Rate 5 Crew Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew
Probationary Journeyman Weekend Rate 5 Crew Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew
$39.57	$40.69
$39.57	$40.69
$39.57	$40.69
$39.57	$40.69
$43.67	$44.97
$44.28	$45.54
$39.32	$40.44
$43.37	$44.68
$44.00	$45.25
SURFACE OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT
Group 1		
Hoistman	$39.57	$40.69
Shaftman	$39.57	$40.69
Weekend Rate 5 Crew	$43.67	$44.97
Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew	$44.28	$45.54
Group 2		
Surface Controller	$38.28	$39.40
Surface Utilityman	$38.28	$39.40
Weekend Rate 5 Crew	$42.16	$43.47
Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew	$42.84	$44.09
Group 3
Surface Excavator Operator Weekend Rate 5 Crew Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew
$37.71
$41.50
$42.20
$38.83
$42.80
$43.45
$37.76
$41.55
$42.26
$41.85
$41.85
$41.85
$41.85
$46.33
$46.83
$41.60
$46.03
$46.55
$41.85
$41.85
$46.33
$46.83
$40.56
$40.56
$44.82
$45.39
$39.99
$44.16
$44.75
Page 3 of 4
Group 4			
Shaft Conveyance Tender	$37.42	$38.54	$39.70
Surface Process Operator	$37.42	$38.54	$39.70
Weekend Rate 5 Crew	$41.16	$42.46	$43.82
Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew	$41.88	$43.13	$44.43
Group 5			
Surface Loader Operator	$37.24	$38.36	$39.52
Weekend Rate 5 Crew	$40.95	$42.25	$43.61
Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew	$41.67	$42.93	$44.22
Group 6			
Shipper	$36.99	$38.11	$39.27
Forklift Operator	$36.99	$38.11	$39.27
Basement Controller	$36.99	$38.11	$39.27
Vehicle & Equip. Operator	$36.99	$38.11	$39.27
Weekend Rate 5 Crew	$40.66	$41.96	$43.32
Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew	$41.40	$42.65	$43.95
Group 7			
Janitor	$36.37	$37.49	$38.65
Weekend Rate 5 Crew	$39.93	$41.24	$42.59
Monday-Saturday Blended Rate For 10.5 Hour Crew	$40.70	$41.95	$43.25
iMY..
Company
va
Union
Date	^
Page 4 of 4
SCHEDULE“B”
CLASSIFIED RATE OF PAY FORMULAS
10.5 Hour Shift Schedule:
1.	Multiply eight (8) hours by the applicable classified Schedule “A” base rate of pay per hour,
2.	Multiply two and one-half (21/4) hours by one and one-half (11A) times the applicable classified Schedule “A” base rate of pay per hour,
3.	Add the above two totals together in items # 1 & # 2 and divide this total by 10.5 to equate the applicable 10.5 hour blended classified job rate of pay per hour.
5 Crew Shift Schedule:
1.	Multiply twelve (12) hours by one and one-half (VA) times the applicable classified Schedule “A” base rate of pay for Saturday,
2.	Multiply twelve (12) hours by two (2) times the applicable classified Schedule “A” base rate of pay for Sunday,
3.	Add the above two totals together in items # 1 & # 2 and from this total subtract Saturday premium (12 x $7.50 = $90.00),
4.	Divide the above remaining total in item # 3 by 36 to equate the applicable classified weekend job rate of pay per hour.
i mi.
Company Date 5
Union
y' S/.
Date