1995
No. OF	'
FMPl.Om.', ' ,( j
No. OF FMPl.Om.',
|
COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
SIFTO CANADA INC GODERICH, ONTARIO
ANI)
THE COMMUNICATION, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 16-0
00241 (06)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE NUMBER	PAGE NUMBER
1	PURPOSE
1.01	.......................................1
2	SCOPE
2.01	RECOGNITION OF UNION AS BARGAINING AGENT... 1
2.02	CLASSES OF EMPLOYEES EXCLUDED FROM
BARGAINING AGENT........................2
2.03	SUPERVISORS DOING	BARGAINING	UNIT WORK..2
2.04	SECURITY GUARDS DOING BARGAININGUNITWORK.... 2
2.05	PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES EXCLUDED FROM
BARGAINING UNIT.........................2
3	COMPANY RIGHTS
3.01	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS....
3.02	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
4	UNION RECOGNITION
4.01	UNION RECOGNITION....
4.02	MEMBERSHIP INTHE UNION
4.03	UNION OFFICE.........
5	CHECK-OFF
5.01	UNION DUES....................
5.02	PAYROLL DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
5.03	UNION DUES REMISSION..........
ooicn	cncncn	coco
6 SENIORITY
6.01	DEFINITION............................. ...6
6.02	PROMOTION, DEMOTION,TRANSFER, LAY-OFF AND
RECALL.....................................6
6.03	PROCEDURES IN EVENT OF LAYOFF..............7
6.04	LOSS OF SENIORITY..........................8
6.05	POSTING JOB VACANCIES................10
6.06	SENIORITY STATUS WHEN ABSENT.........10
6.07	DEPARTMENTS DEFINED..................11
6.08	STATUS UNDER AGREEMENT WHILE ON LAYOFF...	12
6.09	SENIORITY LIST UPDATING...................12
7	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06
7.07
WITHOUT PAY.............................12
DUE TO SICKNESS,ACCIDENT OR WCB.........12
UNION BUSINESS..........................12
NATIONAL UNION BUSINESS.................13
TO ATTEND CONCILIATION OR ARBITRATION
PROCEEDINGS.............................13
REQUESTFOR LEAVE IN ADDITION TO VACATION.. 13 JUSTIFIABLE EXTENSIONS..................13
8	COMMITTEES
8.01	NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE..........
8.02	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE............
8.03	COMPANY PAY FOR COMMITTEE WORK.
8.04	LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE....
8.05	JOINT HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE...
.14
.15
.15
.16
.16
9	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
,16
• ii •
9.02	STEP I...................................17
9.03	STEP II..............................
9.04	ADVANCE TO ARBITRATION...............
9.05	DISCLOSURE...........................
9.06	POLICY GRIEVANCE DEFINED.............
9.07	SETTLEMENT NOT PRECEDENT SETTING.....
9.08	REQUEST TO LEAVE WORK EARLY..........
9.09	NOTICE OF DISCIPLINE TO CHIEF STEWARD.
9.10	DELETION OF WRITTEN WARNINGS FROM FILE
9.11	DELETION OF SUSPENSIONS FROM FILE....
9.12	TIMING OF SUSPENSION.................
10	ARBITRATION
10.01	SELECTION OF AN ARBITRATOR..............19
10.02	GROUNDS FOR NOTAPPOINTING ARBITRATOR....19
10.03REMUNERATION AND EXPENSES OF ARBITRATOR
AND WITNESSES...........................19
10.04	SOLE ARBITRATOR PROVISION..............19
10.05	BINDING EFFECT OF ARBITRATOR'S DECISION.20
10.06	EXPEDITED ARBITRATION..................20
.17
.17
.17
.18
.18
18
18
.18
if3
11	NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
11.01	NO STRIKE. WORK STOPPAGE OR RESTRICTION OF
OUTPUT PROVISION.......................20
11.02 NO LOCKOUT PROVISION..................20
12	MAINTENANCE & PROTECTION DURING SUSPENSION OF WORK
12.01	USE OF BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES DURING
SUSPENSION OF WORK......................20
12.02 LIMITATIONON 12.01....................21
• in •
12.03	WAGE RATES IN EFFECT DURING SUSPENSION Of WORK......................................21
13	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
13.01	DEFINITION OF WORKWEEK...............
13.02	DEFINITIONOFSHIFTS...................
13.03	LUNCH PERIODS........................
13.04	OVERTIME RATES.......................
13.05	a) NOTIFICATIONOF CHANGE IN SHIFT SCHEDULE
b)	OVERTIMEOUTSIDEOF REGULARWORKWEEK
c)	EXCHANGING SHIFTS..................
13.06	DISTRIBUTIONOF OVERTIME..............
13.07	EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTIONOF OVERTIME....
13.08	DEPARTMENTS DEFINED FOR OVERTIME
PURPOSES...............................
13.09	ALTERNATE METHOD FOR DETERMINNG
OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION..................
13.10	EQUALIZINGOVERTIME FOR EMPLOYEE
TRANSFERS..............................
13.11	EQUALIZATION OF OVERTIME FOLLOWING
ABSENCE ...............................
13.12	HOURS AND CONDITOINS OF WORK FOR
TEMPORARY TRANSFERS....................
13.13	OVERTIME MEAL ALLOWANCE..............
13.14	HOISTINGAND LOWERING SCHEDULES.......
13.15	PAY FOR BEING TRAPPED IN MINE........
13.16	FAILURE TO RECEIVE NOTICE NOT TO REPORT
TO WORK................................
13.17	MINIMUM CALL OUT PAY FOR EMERGENCY WORK
13.18	NO PYRAMIDING OF OVERTIME PREMIUMS...
13.19	NO GUARANTEE OF WORK.................
13.20	CANCELLATION OF SHIFT TO LOAD VESSEL
ON OVERTIME............................
21
22
22
22
23
23
24 24 24
24
25 25
25
26 26 26 27
27
27
28 28
28
• IV •
14 RATES OF PAY
14.01	RATES AS SET OUT IN SCHEDULE A.......28
14.02	SHIFT PREMIUMS.......................28
14.03	UNDERGROUND PREMIUM..................29
14.04	SATURDAY PREMIUM AND SUNDAY PREMIUM.29
14.05	NO PYRAMIDING OF PREMIUMS............29
14.06	RATEAND DURATION OF COMPANY INITIATED
TEMPORARY TRANSFERS....................29
14.07	RATES FOR NEWLY ESTABLISHED JOBS.....29
14.08	SHAFT WORK PREMIUM...................30
15	MINE HOLIDAYS
15.01	MINE HOLIDAYSAND ADDITIONAL CHRISTMAS PAY 30
15.02	ENTITLEMENT TO HOLIDAY PAY............31
15.03	PAY FOR WORKING ON A MINE HOLIDAY.....32
15.04	HOLIDAYS FALLING DURING VACATION......32
15.05	FLOATING HOLIDAYS.....................32
15.06	RESTRICTION OF WORK ON CERTAIN HOLIDAYS... 33
15.07	PAY FOR WORKING #3 SHIFT PRECEDING
CHRISTMAS OR NEW YEARS DAY..............33
15.08	HOLIDAY PAY WHILE OFF DUE TO SICKNESS OR
ACCIDENT................................33
16	VACATIONS WITH PAY
16.01 DEFINITION OF VACATION YEAR AND WEEK..33
16.02	ENTITLEMENT AND PAY WITH LESS THAN 1 YEAR, 33
16.03	ENTITLEMENTAND PAYWITH MORETHAN 1 YEAR .. 34
16.04	ENTITLEMENTAND PAYWITH MORETHAN5 YEARS .... 34
16.05	ENTITLEMENTANDPAYWITH MORETHAN 10YEARS... 34
16.06	ENTITLEMENTAND PAYWITH MORETHAN20YEARS... 34
16.07	ENTITLEMENTANDPAY WITH MORETHAN25 YEARS... 34
• V •
16.08	VACATION SELECTION PREFERENCE.......34
16.09	VACATION EXTENSION THROUGH LEAVE OF
ABSENCE...............................34
16.10	VACATION ENTITLEMENT ON TERMINATION.35
16.11	ENTITLEMENTTO FLOATING HOLIDAY DURING
EXTENDEDABSENCES......................35
16.12	WEEKLY INDEMNITYAND WORKERS COMPENSATION
ON VACATION...........................35
16.13	CONSUME VACATION PAY IF ON LTD OR WCB FOR
PROLONGED PERIOD OF TIME..............35
17	OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
17.01
17.02
17.03
17.04
17.05
17.06
17.07
17.08
17.09
17.10
17.11
17.12
17.13
17.14
17.15
COMPLYING WITH LEGISLATION............35
PROVIDING SAFE WORKING CONDITIONS...... 36
WORKING CO-OPERATIVELYTO IMPROVE
WORKING CONDITIONS....................36
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR HEALTHAND SAFETY
COMMITTEE.............................31
INVESTIGATION OF ACCIDENTS............31
CONDUCTING HEALTHAND SAFETY AIR AND
AUDIO TESTS...........................31
SAFETY EDUCATIONAD INDOCTRINATIONPROGram	a<
COMMITTEE MEMBERS NOTTO ACT AS WITNESSES... 39 CONTINUATIONOF ENGINEERING METHODS FOR
HEALTHY AND SAFE ENVIRONMENT..........39
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING RE HEALTH AND
SAFETY................................3
WORK DURING POWER FAILURES OR NO
COMMUNICATIONS........................3
SAFETY FOOTWEAR ALLOWANCE.............3
PROVIDING AND WEARING SAFETY GLASSES..3
COVERALLS.............................4
SHARED P.P.P	4
• vi •
18 GENERAL
18.01	UNION NOTICE BOARD.................40
18.02	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE..................40
18.03	JURY OR WITNESS DUTY...............41
18.04	LEADHANDS..........................41
18.05	DEFINITIONOFTHE TERM DAYS..........41
18.06	RELIANCEON ORIGINALLYSIGNEDAGREEMENT .. 41
18.07	REFERENCESTOGENDER INTHIS AGREEMENT... 41
19	GROUP INSURANCE
19.
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
g)
h)
i)
j)
k)
l)
m)
n)
01 BENEFITS
LIST OF BENEFITS PROVIDED AND TERM.......42
WEEKLY INDEMNITY.........................42
LIFE INSURANCE...........................42
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT......42
RETIREE LIFE INSURANCE...................
MAJOR MEDICAL............................
SEMI-PRIVATE HOSPITAL COVERAGE...........
LONGTERM DISABILITY......................
DENTAL PLAN..............................
FAMILY EYE GLASS PLAN....................
COST SHARING OF PREMIUMS.................
EFFECTIVE DATE OF COVERAGE AND UIC REBATE.
CONTINUATION OF BENEFITS ON 'LAY-OFF.....
CONTINUATION OF BENEFIT§ ON EARLY RETIREMENT.
.43
.43
.45
.45
.48
.50
.50
51
.51
51
20	PENSION PLAN
20.01	ELIGIBILITY.................
20.02	SPECIAL PENSION CONTRIBUTION
20.03	SPECIAL PAID RETIREMENT LEAVE
52
52
52
• vh •
21	TRAINING
21.01	MINER TRAINING PROGRAM...............53
21.02	MAINTENANCE TRAINING PROGRAM.........53
21.03	RECOGNITION OF SKILLS................58
22	DURATION OF AGREEMENT
22.01	EXPIRY DATEAND NOTICE OF RENEWAL...,...58 '
22.02	FIRST MEETING FOR RENEWALAND CONDITION'S
DURING NEGOTIATIONS...................58
22.03	EFFECTIVE DATEAGREEMENT IN FORCE.....58
SCHEDULEA
60
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
LETTER#1
LETTER#2 LETTER#3 LETTER#4 LETTER#5 LETTER#6 LETTER#7
LETTER#8 LETTER#9
LETTER #10
OPTIONAL LIFE INSURANCEAND AD&D
COVERAGE.......................
COPIES OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT.
ROOF BOLTING PRACTICE..........
COMMUNICATIONS.................
DEVELOPMENT MINER..............
COST CONTAINMENTPROGRAM........
EMPLOYEES ELIGIBLETO CONVERT 6TH VACATION WEEK TO SUPPLEMENT
PENSION PAYMENT................
SHORTTERM MINE SHUTDOWN........
TEMPORARY VACANCIES & JOB
QUALIFICATIONS.................
BUMPING RIGHTS.................
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71 78
• VIII •
LET! ER #11 LETTER #12 LETTER #13 LETTER #14 LETTER #15
PERMANENT LAYOFF..............76
SPECIAL EVENTS................77
SHIFT CHANGES.................78
LABOUR POOLARRANGEMENT........79
VACATION SCHEDULE.............80
SENIORITY LIST
83
NOTE: THE ABOVE TABLE OF CONTENTS IS FOR EASE OF REFERENCE ONLY AND SHALL NOT BE USED IN ANY WAY FOR ASSISTANCE IN INTERPRETING THE MAIN TEXT OF THE AGREEMENT.
• ix •
COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT
between
SIFTO CANADA INC., a Corporation under the laws of Canada, herein acting with respect only to the Goderich Mine located at Goderich, Ontario, hereinafterreferred to as the “Company”.
and
THE COMMUNICATION, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION,
Local 16-0, located at Goderich, Ontario, hereinafterreferredto as the “Union”.
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE
1.01	The Company and the Union have entered intothisAgreement at Goderich, Ontario, for the purpose of recording terms and conditionsof employment, resultingfrom collective bargaining which are to be observed by the parties hereto. It is their desire to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to settle all differences in an amicable manner as herein provided, and to work together to achieve the most efficient operation of the plant and to promote the safety and health of the employees.
ARTICLE 2
SCOPE
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as bargaining agent of the employees covered by this agreement.
2.02	The following classes of employees are excluded from the bargaining unit:
-	All office staff including executive, managerial, sales, engineering, laboratory, accounting, and clerical.
Supervisory employees above and including the rank of foreman.
■	Security guards to protect the property of the company.
" All part time and any temporary employees who have not completed the probationary period described in clause 6.01. Such employees shall be subject to equivalent provisionsto those provided by article 5, (checkoff, article 13, (hoursof work and overtime) and article 14, (ratesof pay). It is understood that such employees shall be released before any regular employees are laid cff and no new employees will be hired under this section if any regular employee is on layoff.
2.03	Supervisory employees shall not do work which is customarily performed by members of the bargaining unit. This does not apply when the supervisor is engaged in any of the following:
-	Training an employee.
-	Conducting experimental work.
■	Performing work which is required due to an emergency.
2.04	Security guards shall not do work which is customarily performed by members of the bargaining unit.
2.05	Except as provided in 2.02 above, this agreement shall not
•2*
apply to probationary employees. It is understood and agreed that the termination of any such employee shall be deemed to be for just cause.
ARTICLE 3 COMPANY RIGHTS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function and right of the Company to:
1a)	Operate and manage its business in all respects, except
where any right to do so has been specifically restricted by the terms of this Agreement;
b)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
c)	make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, provided such rules and regulations are not inconsistent with this Agreement;
d)	schedule the production;
e)	direct the working force, hire, promote, demote, transfer, lay-off because of lack of work, recall, discipline, suspend and discharge for just cause all employees, provided that claims of discriminatory promotions, demotion, or transfer and wrongful or unjust discipline or discharge shall be subject to the grievance procedure herein provided;
f)	subject to 3.02 below, incorporate all manner of technical and process improvements.
3.02	Technological change is defined as the introduction of new technology into the operation or the automation of an activity,
• 3 •
which results in a significant change in the method of operating the business. It does not include such things as a change in the volume or timing of business or the routine replacement of equipment.
The company agrees to notify the union of pending technological change, at the earliest practical date which will permit a meaningful discussion cf the impact of the change on the operation and the workforce. Such discussion shall include the following:
- the probable effective date
■	the approximate number and classificationof employees to be affected, if any
' the approximate number of jobs to be abolished and/or created, if any
■	any change in the terms, conditions or security of employment
It is understood and agreed that any new or changedjob created by the technological change shall be offered first to those employees directly affected by the change. Any jobs which are not filled in thisfashion shall be posted in accordance with article 6.05.
If the technological change creates a permanent reduction in the number of employees at the operationthe reduction shall be effected in accordance with the terms of Letter of Understanding #11.
•4*
	ARTICLE 4 UNION RECOGNITION
4.01	The Company recognizes the Union, during the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, as the exclusive representatives of the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to hours of work, rates of pay and other conditions of employment, as set forth in this Agreement.
4.02	All employees shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union upon completion of their probationary period, maintaining such membership in good standing for the duration of this Agreement.
4.03	The Company agrees to make available to the President and other UnionOfficials, office space equipped with a desk, chairs, telephone and filing cabinet, located on surface, for the purpose of dealing with complaints or grievances arising out of the administration of the Agreement or individual employee problems arising out of their employment with the Company.
	ARTICLE 5 CHECK-OFF
5.01	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to levy initiation fees and dues.
5.02	Upon receipt of written authorization from the Union, the Company agrees to deduct from the pay of employees covered by this Agreement initiation fees and regular monthly union dues during the term of this Agreement.
	• 5 •
5.03	The Company shall remit to the Union once a month the initiation fees and regular monthly dues deducted together with a written statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
ARTICLE 6 SENIORITY
6.01	a) Seniority shall be determined by an employee's length of
service in the bargaining unit. A new employee shall be considered as probationary and shall not accumulate seniority until he has completed 60 working days of employment. Thereafter, his seniority shall date back to his date of hire. After 20 days of employment, a new employee shall receive a performance review.
b)	When an employee accepts a position outside the bargaining unit, he shall cease to accrue seniority. Such an employee shall retain his existing seniority for 12 months, provided he continues to pay union dues during this period. On returning to the bargaining unit, the employee will be placed in the labour pool.
6.02	a) In all cases of promotion, demotion, transfer, lay-off and
recall, the Company shall give preference to the senior employees, provided the senior employee has the qualifications, the physical capabilities and the ability to perform the job in accordance with Company standards.
b)	Permanent job vacancies shall be posted as per clause
6.05	and shall be awarded to the senior applicant who will have fifteen (15) working days to be qualified on the job and to demonstrate a level of job competency satisfactory to the Company.
* 6 •
If after fifteen (15) working days the successful applicant proves unsatisfactory, he shall be returned to his former position. Any employee promoted or transferred because of the re-arrangement of positions shall be returned to his former position.
6.03	The term postings below is as defined in article 6.05 and for the purposes of this article, labourer positions will be treated in the same manner as postings.
a)	In the event of a lay-off the following procedure will govern:
i)	all probationary and temporary employees shall be released first, provided the remaining employees are qualified to perform the work available in accordance with Article 6.02.
ii)	thereafter regular employees shall be laid off in reverse order of seniority providing the remaining employees are qualified to perform the work available.
b)	i) Inthe case of a posting elimination lasting five (5) days
or less, or a layoff of five (5) days or less, senior employees remaining at work and in accordance with Article No. 6, Section 6.02, shall not exercise their seniority rights nor shall their rates of pay be altered.
ii)	In the case of a temporary layoff of more than five (5) days, or a temporary elimination of a posting lasting more than five (5jdays, the employees displaced shall have the right to exercise seniority in accordance with Letter of Understanding # 10. Employees exercising this right shall do so in accordance with Article No. 6, Section 6.02, in which case the lower rate, if applicable shall apply immediately.
• 7 •
iii)	In the case of a permanent layoff, or a permanent elimination of a posting, the employees displaced shall have the right to exercise their seniority rights in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments, in accordance with Article No. 6, Section 6.02, in which case the lower rate, if applicable shall apply immediately.
c)	An employee whose equipment is down or whose job is not required for morethan thirty (30) consecutive days for reasons other than those contemplated in 6.03 (b), will have the option to exercise his seniority in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments, in accordance with Article No. 6, Section 6.02. Those persons permanently displaced by employees exercising their seniority rights under this clause will also have the option to exercise their seniority in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments, in accordance with Article No. 6, Section 6.02. In all cases the lower rate, if applicable, shall apply immediately.
Note:	If the Company knows on day one that the time limits surpass
those as outlined above, the employee(s) will have the right to exercise their seniority rights as outlined above on day one.
6.04	An employee shall cease to have seniority rights and his employee status with the company shall be terminated for all purposes if he:
a)	Voluntarily leaves the company;
b)	is discharged for cause;
c)	retires from company service;
•8*
d)	i) is laid off by the company and has not been recalled
for a period of 12 consecutive months. In such an event, an employee with 5 or more years of continuous service and who has not previously been offered severance, shall be entitled to a severance payment calculated in accordance with Letter of Understanding #11.
e)	i) fails to notify the company within three (3) calendar
days following receipt of notice to return, by registered mail sent to the employee's last place of address on record with the Company, of his intention to return to work following a lay-off, or
Note: The time limit allowed for the receipt of such notice shall be four (4) calendar days after the mailing date.
ii)	fails to report for work following a lay-off, within ten (10) calendar days after notice to return to work has been sent by registered mail, to the employee's last place of address on record with the company.
Note:	It is the responsibility of the employee on lay-off to notify the
company of the address where he can be reached in the event of recall.
f)	is absent for more than three (3) consecutive working days without just cause in the opinion of the company, except in the case of illness or accident provided the company is notified of such illness or accident during the above three (3) day period. The company may require such illness or accident to be confirmed by a doctor's certificate. Notwithstanding the words “in the opinion of the company” an Arbitration Board may render a decision based upon the merits of the issue in dispute.
• o •
g)	he does not report for work upon the expiration of an authorized leave of absence, unless excused for reasonable cause.
6.05	Except as specified in Schedule A, Note 4, permanent job vacancies above the Labour Rate shall be posted on the Notice Board for five (5) calendar days in order to give all employees who are interested an opportunity to bid for the job. The posting will include a statement indicating the shift on which the vacancy or position is currently assigned. Within twenty-five (25) calendar days after the posting expires, the Company must announce a successfu candidate or cancel the posting. The Company reserves the right to reassign the least senior employee to another shift if required in the future. Experience gained by an employee selected to do the job on an interim basis pending final selection of an applicant shall not be considered in the selection of an applicant.
6.06	a) Notwithstanding Article 7.02, an employee absent due to
illness or accident shall accumulate and retain seniority rights and employee status with the Company while on Weekly Indemnity, Long Term Disability, or Workers' Compensation or during the following periods of absence whichever is greater:
i)	employees with less than one year's service during an absence equal to their length of service;
ii)	employees with one year or more service but less than five (5) years, during an absence of up to twelve (12) consecutive months;
iii)	employees with five (5) or more years of service but less than ten (10) years, during an absence of up to eighteen (18) consecutive months;
• io»
iv)	employees with ten (10) or more years of service but less than fifteen (15) years, during an absence of up to twenty-four (24) consecutive months;
v)	employees with fifteen (15) or more years of service but less than twenty (20) years, during an absence of up to thirty (30) consecutive months;
vi)	employees with twenty (20) or more years of service during an absence of up to thirtysix (36) consecutive months.
b)	An employee shall retain seniority rights and employee status with the Company for a leave of absence for any reason other than those named in (a) for up to three (3) months, except as provided for in Article 7.03 and 7.04.
NOTE: Employees who have exceeded the time limits in this article shall lose their seniority rights and their status as an employee of the Company shall terminate.
6.07	For the purpose of this article the facility shall be divided into the following departments:
Mining
-	Shipping
-	Maintenance
-	Hoisting
•ii*
Janitorial
6.08	An employee on lay-off shall have no status under this Agreement, except as specifically provided herein.
6.09	A seniority list shall be made up by the Company every six (6) months. One (1) copy shall be posted on the Notice Board and one (1) copy shall be supplied to the Union. Any error in the said list shall betaken up with the Company within one(1) week after the list has been posted.
	The Company agrees a seniority list will be included in the Collective Agreement booklets as an appendix. It will have the following note attached to the bottom cf the seniority list: "This list is for quick informal reference and is not an official seniority list."
	ARTICLE 7 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
7.01	All leaves of absence shall be without pay, except as noted in clauses 15.07,18.02 and 18.03.
7.02	Employees absent due to sickness or accident or on Workers' Compensationshall be automaticallyconsideredto be on leave of absence, provided that the Company may require such sickness or accident to be confirmed by a doctor's certificate.
7.03	Employees of the Company, nct exceeding two (2) in number, elected by the Union as representatives to District, Provincial or Nationalfunctions shall, subject to production requirements be granted reasonable leave of absence to attend such functions, provided the Company receivedadequate notice cf requested absence. The employees granted such a leave of absence shall accumulate seniority for the duration of said leave.
	• 12*
7.04	The Company, on application from the Union reasonably in advance, shall grant leave cf absence not to exceed six (6) months to an employee who may be selected as a representative of the National Union or to fill an office with the District, the Ontario Federation of Labour, or the Canadian Labour Congress. This leave cf absence may be extended an additional six (6) months by agreement of the parties. The employee granted such a leave of absence shall accumulate seniority for the duration of said leave. The employee will not be entitled to any benefits under this Agreement except that the Group Insurance coverage will be maintained providing the employee pays the full cost.
7.05	The Company shall grant leave of absence to these employees required to attend any conciliation or arbitration proceedings. It is agreed that the number of such employees shall be kept to a minimum so as not to affect the efficient operation of the mine.
7.06	An employee may be granted up to two (2) weeks leave cf absence consecutive with his vacation and if the Company grants such leave of absence, the employee shall accumulate seniority during such leave.
7.07	A leave of absence may be extended by the Company for justifiable reasons.
• 13 •
ARTICLE 8 COMMITTEES
8.01	NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
The Company agrees that a Negotiating Committee, not to exceed five (5) employees in number, selected by the Union, shall be recognized as the authorized negotiating representative of the Union. The Negotiating Committee will be represented as follows: one from shipping, one from maintenance, two from mining, the Chief Steward. The Company shall deal with the said Committee with respectto proposalsfor modifications of the Agreement as outlined in Article 22. An accredited official of the Union may participate in any such negotiations.
The Union shall supply the Company in writing the names of the employees constituting the Negotiating Committee and shall inform the Company two (2) days prior to any meeting of any changes in the personnel of the said committee.
Meetings between the Company and the Negotiating Committee shall be held at times affording the least loss of time to the Company and to the members of the Committee. It is understood that payment to the members of the committee for regular time lost in connection with the re-negotiation of this Agreement will be paid by the Company up to conciliation.
For the purposes of this Section, an employee who is not on his day off and who spends a day in negotiations with the Company shall be deemed to have performed a day of work for all purposes, including the calculation of overtime, and Committee Members shall not be required to work the #1 Shift immediately before or the #3 Shift immediately after a day of negotiations, if they would otherwise have been so scheduled.
The Company shall not pay Committee members for time lost from work due to conciliation proceedings.
• 14 •
8.02	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
The Company agrees that a Grievance Committee, not to exceed three (3) employees in number, selected by the Union, shall be recognized as the authorized representative of theUnion to handle all grievances as outlined in clause 9.02.
The Union shall supply the Company in writing the names of the employees constituting th Grievance Committee and shall inform the Company at least two (2) days prior to any meeting of any change in the personnel of the said Committee.
Meetings between the Company and the Grievance Committee shall be held at times affording the least loss of time to the Company and the members cf the Committee. It is understood that compensation to employees for regular time lost in connection with grievances of employees shall be paid by the Company up to and including Step Two.
The Company shall not pay Committee members for time lost from work due to Arbitration proceedings.
8.03	Meetings of the following Union-Management Committees shall be held at times affording the least loss to the Company. Time spent by members cf these Committees shall be paid by the appropriate straight time or overtime rate.
The Union-Management Committees are as follows:
a)	Labour Management Committee
b)	Joint Health and Safety Committee
• 15 •
8.04	Labour Management Committee
The Company recognizes a Labour Management Committee comprised of five (5) Mine Management including Senior Mine Management and five (5) Local Union Members including Senior Local Union Officialsto meet not less than once every two months or as otherwise agreed between the parties, for the purpose of advising and consulting on matters impacting on the operations and the employees, and to otherwise enhance communications to their mutual benefit.
8.05	Joint Health and Safety Committee
The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be composed of three (3) employees selected by the Company and three (3) employees selected by the Union.
The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall meet not less than once a month.
The purpose of the Committee is to monitor and make appropriate recommendations on matters pertaining to health and safety as provided in Article 17.
ARTICLE 9
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	When an employee or a group of employees has a dispute involving the interpretation, application or an alleged violation of the agreement, the employee(s) and the employee’s supervisor(s) will discuss the dispute and attempt to resolve it. At the employee's option, a steward will be present during the discussion. Failing a satisfactory resolution, the dispute may be submitted in writing to step one of the grievance procedure, provided that no more than 3 weeks has elapsed since the date of the incident giving rise to the grievance or 2 weeks since the employee discussed it with his supervisor.
• 16 •
9.02	A first step meeting shall be scheduled within 2 weeks of the date the grievance is submitted. This meeting shall be attended by the employee and the chief steward or his delegate. The Company will be represented by the appropriate superintendent and/or his delegate and the supervisor. The Company will provide a written answer within 1 week of the meeting. Failing a satisfactory resolution at step one, the grievance may be advanced to step two, providedthe Union notifies the Company in writing within 2 weeks of the first step answer.
9.03	A second step meeting shall be scheduled within 2 weeks of the notification and will be attended by the grievance committee and the national representative or his delegate. The Company shall be represented by the Mine Manager or his delegate and such other Company officials as may be appropriate. The Company will reply in writing within 1 week of the second step meeting.
9.04	Failing a satisfactory resolution at step two, the grievance may be advanced to arbitration, provided the Union notifies the Company in writing within 2 weeks of the second step answer.
9.05	At all steps of the grievance and arbitration procedure, the griever and the union shall disclose to the company a full and detailed statement of the facts, the remedy sought and the provision(s) of the agreement relied upon. In a similar fashion, the company shall disclose all pertinent facts upon which it relies. In the event additional facts become available they will be revealed to the other party in a timely fashion.
9.06	A policy grievance is defined as a dispute which affects the rights of the parties to this agreement as entities rather than the rights of an individual employee or group of employees. Policy grievances shall be initiated at step two.
• 17 •
9.07	It is understood and agreed that no precedent shall be set as the result of a dispute or grievance which is settled short of arbitration unless both parties expressly agree in writing, that the settlement shall constitute a precedent. Neither party shall utilize the settlement of a dispute or grievance in an effort to maintain a practice or to initiate the same or similar practice in another location.
9.08	No employee or employee representative shall leave his work for any cf the purposes mentioned in this Agreement without a request to and permission from his foreman.
9.09	A copy cf any written notice of discipline issuedto an employee will be forwarded to the Local Union Chief Steward.
9.10	A disciplinary warning shall be deleted from an employee's file if a period of twelve (12) months has elapsed without any new infraction resulting in disciplinary action.
9.11	The record of a suspension shall be deleted from an employee's file if twenty-four (24) months has elapsed without any new infraction resulting in disciplinary action.
9.12	Disciplinary suspensions will be served at management's discretion. When such a suspension is 5 days or less and is the subject of a grievance it will normally be served after the earlier of the second step answer or the date the grievance is abandoned.
• 18>
ARTICLE 10 ARBITRATION
10.01	When either party decides to submit a grievance to Arbitration, as per clause 9.04, then the other party shall be so advised in writing. The Company and the Union shall then each appoint an arbitrator within five (5) days. The two (2) arbitrators so appointed shall meet immediately, and if, within the next five (5) days, they fail to settle the grievance, then they shall endeavour to agree upon a third arbitrator to act as Chairman of the Arbitration Board. If the third arbitrator is not chosen within a further five (5) day period, then the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall be requested to appoint an impartial Chairman.
10.02	No person shall be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved previously in an attempt to negotiate to settle the grievance.
10.03	Each party shall pay the remuneration and expenses, if any, of the arbitrator appointed by such party and the remuneration and expenses of the Chairman shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
10.04	Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 10.01 and 10.03, the Company and the Union may by mutual agreement, substitute a sole arbitrator for anArbitration Board. In this event the words “Arbitration Board” in this article shall be deemed to read sole arbitrator. The remunerationand expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
• 19 •
10.05	The proceedings and the decisions of the Arbitration Board shall be expedited by the Company and the Union. The decision of the majority of such Board shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto; but the arbitrators shall not be authorized to make, nor shall they make, any decision or recommendation inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor alter, modify, or amend any part cf this Agreement, nor make any general changes such as changes in wage rates, nor deal with any matter not covered by thisAgreement. If there is no majority decision, then the decision of the chairman shall prevail.
10.06	It is understood and agreed that the expedited arbitration process provided by the Ministry of Labour shall be restricted to issues where the maximum financial consequence of the award is $1,500 or less.
	ARTICLE 11 NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
11.01	The union agrees there shall be no strike, work stoppage, slowdown or restriction of output during the life of this agreement.
11.02	The Company agrees that there shall be no lockout during the life of this Agreement.
	ARTICLE 12 MAINTENANCE & PROTECTION DURING SUSPENSION OF WORK
12.01	It is agreed that, during any general suspension of work at the said mine at any time and for any cause whatsoever, the Company's property shall be protected, the skip hoist, water
	• 20*
pumps, and other machinery necessary for the protection of the mine, shall be kept operating, and the Company's equipment shall be left in good condition by the employees. The safety provisions of the current Occupational Health and Safety Act, and Regulations for Mines and Mining Plants shall be fully complied with by all employees prior to any cessation of work.
12.02	It is understood that those employees who are required to remain at work, or report to work (including Mine Rescue personnel), under the provisions of Section 12.01 above, shall be available for such work during the suspension of work. No production or shipping work shall be done by such employees.
It is agreed that personnel required to report for work under sections 12.01 and 12.02 shall have Life, A.D. & D. and hospital insurances maintained by the Company for claims incurred on any day the employee has actively been at work.
12.03	The employees referred to in Section 12.02 above shall be paid at the wage rates in effect at the time of the general suspension of work.
ARTICLE 13
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
13.01	The work week commences at the beginning of Monday’s #1 Shift as defined in 13.02 and the regular hours of work shall be forty (40) per week which shall normally consist of five (5) eight (8) hour shifts in accordance with the regularly assigned shift schedules. Shift schedules affecting three (3) shift seven (7) day mining operations shall provide an average of forty (40) hours per week over a four (4) week cycle. Employees on such a schedule are not eligible for overtime pay on the sixth (6th) regularly scheduled shift in any work week.
• 21 •
13.02	Mondays#1 Shift is any shift starting between 20:01 hourson Sunday and 04:00 hourson Monday. Monday’s#2 Shift is any shift starting between04:01 hours and 12:00 hourson Monday. Monday’s #3 Shift is any shift starting between 12:01 hours and 20:00 hourson Monday. Shifts for the remaining days cf the week will follow the same pattern.
13.03	All employeesshall receive a 30 minute paid lunch periodwhich shall be scheduled betweenthe third and fifth hours of the shift.
13.04	a) Except as noted in Section 13.05 all hours worked in
excess of the regularly assigned daily hours shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at rates of one and one-half (1 V2) the employee’s straight time classified rate except double the employee’sstraighttime classified rate will be paid for the following:
i)	For five (5) day operation employeesall overtime hours worked between 00:01 and 24:00 hours on non-scheduled Sundays.
ii)	Forfive (5) day operationemployeesall overtime hours in excess of eight (8) hours between 00:01 and 24:00 hours on a non-scheduled Saturday.
iii)	For seven (7) day continuousoperation employees who are required to work overtime hours in excess of eight (8) hours between00:01 and 24:00 hourson the first (1 st) day of rest in a given work week.
iv)	For seven (7) day continuousoperation employees who are required to work overtime hours between 00:01 and 24:00 hours on their second or subsequent days of rest in a given work week.
•22*
b)	An employee who works more than twelve (12) continuous hours shall be paid at the rate of double time for all hours worked beyond the twelve (12) hours. Lunch periods or breaks not exceeding two (2) hours in duration shall not be considered as breaking a continuous period of work. Overtime shall be calculated to the nearest one-quarter (114) hour worked.
c)	For the purpose of time off when a holiday occurs on an employee's scheduled day(s) of rest, the employee shall have the option of a day(s) off in lieu of the holiday. The employee will indicate his desire to exercise this option one (1) week prior to the holiday. The lieu day will be taken within the calendar year with the exception of lieu days for Christmas Day and Boxing Day which may be extended to March 31st of the following year. Any request for a lieu day off must be mutually agreed between the employee and his foreman one (1) week in advance of such day. Lieu days accumulated before November 15th must be scheduled by that date. Alternatively, the Company may schedule a common shift off for the employees affected.
13.05	a) A shift schedule shall be posted not later than 3 PM on Wednesday of the preceding week. Inthe event there is a change in an employee's days or hours of work after the schedule is posted, the first 8 hours worked under the changed schedule shall be paid at time and one half.
b)	Employees who work outside of their regular work week on their regular shift shall be paid at the overtime rate of time and one-half for such work even if they have failed to work five (5) regular shifts within their regular work week for good and sufficient reason.
• 23 •
c)	Two employees may exchange shifts by mutual consent, provided they have received prior approval from both their supervisors. Under no circumstances will overtime be paid as a result of this exchange of shifts.
13.06	From time to time overtime may be required which shall be offered to qualified employees on a departmental basis. Should these employees decline and a suitable replacement is not available it is understood the Company may assign the least senior qualified employees who are immediately available. The Company agrees to give as much advance notice as possible to employees required to work outside their regular work week.
13.07	Overtime work shall be distributed as equally as possibleamong qualified employees within the departments outlined in clause 13.08. The remuneration for such work shall be at the wage rate normally paid for the job. It is recognized and agreed that it is not possible to ensure an equality of overtime at any given time. However, the company will, to the best of its ability, equalize distribution on a continuing basis within each department. The overtime roster shall be posted and reviewed monthly for the purpose of making whatever adjustments may be required during the following quarter.
13.08	For the purpose of equalizing overtime, the following departments will be observed:
-	Mining Shipping
-	Maintenance
-	Hoisting
-	Janitorial
•24*
From time to time, these departments will be reviewed and if necessary modified by mutual consent to meet the needs cf the operation.
13.09	The employees in each of the departments outlined in 13.08 above may establish or change the method by which overtime will be distributed, provided the method is acceptable to a minimum of 75% of those employeesandthe company. Inthe absence of such an arrangement, all overtime worked and any overtime or call out refused shall be charged against the employee's overtime roster.
13.10	An employee shall have his overtime set at the average of the employees in the department to which he is moved when he:
a) is permanently transferred into another department;
5) is temporarily transferred into another department Tor an entire work week as defined in Article 13.01;
c)	returns to the department to which he is normally assigned after a temporary transfer as outlined in b).
Employeestemporarily transferred into another department for less than an entire work week as defined in Article 13.01 shall not have their overtime averaged. They will remain eligible to work overtime inthe department to which they are normally assigned subject to that department's overtime policy.
13.11	An employee shall have his overtime set at the average of the employees in his department when he returns to work following an absence from work in excess of two (2) weeks, except for absence on a vacation with pay.
• 25 •
Employees working overtime for committee work or for mine rescue training or for mine rescue work shall not be charged on the overtime roster for the overtime so worked or refused.
NOTE: Employees refusing overtime due to bereavement in accordance with Article 18.02 shall not be charged on the overtime roster.
13.12	An employee who is on a temporary assignment to another Department will assume the hours and conditions of work of that department during the assignment.
13.13	Inthe event an employee works two (2) or more hours overtime continuous with his regularor overtime shift he shall be provided a meal, or meal allowance at the conclusion often (10) hours worked. If he is required to work more than ten (10) hours, he will be provided with a one-half (1/2) hour lunch period with pay. The approximate value of the meal shall equal nine dollars ($9.00), or the employee shall receive a cash payment of an equal amount in the event a meal cannot be provided. The meal, (or equal payment) shall be provided each succeeding period of four (4) hours overtime. In cases where a cash payment is made, if an employee arranges to have a meal brought in by taxi from Goderich, the cost of such taxi shall bo paid for by the Company up to a maximum of five dollars ($5.00) upon presentation of a valid receipt. However, this shall not apply if an employee is granted permission to go home in order to have his meal at his regular time.
13.14	Hoisting and lowering schedules shall be arranged such that the cage to surface shall leave the bottom of the shaft 15 minutes prior to the scheduled end of the shift.
• 26 •
13.15	Employees trapped in the Mine after the completion of their regular shift will be paid their hourly rate for all hours so trapped and will not be required to climb out of the Mine until at least eight (8) hours have elapsed.
13.16	An employee who reports to work at his scheduled time shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay at his regular straight time rate unless he is notified in advance not to report by one of the following methods:
- in person.
‘ by phone 1 hour in advance of the shift.
' by posting a notice on the bulletin board before the employee leaves the property on his last scheduled shift prior to the cancelled shift.
Any alternate work provided shall be performed.
13.17	a) An employee called out for emergency work and not so
notified during his previous working period shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at his regular straight time rate, or pay for the actual hours worked at the appropriate overtime rates whichever is the greater, except that an employee called out for emergency work between midnight and 5:00 a.m. shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at time and one-half. Emergency work is unscheduled work performed by an employee during times other than his regular work periods and not continuous with such periods.
b) A maintenance employee reporting for mine start-up for #1 Shift shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at his regular straight time rate or pay for actual hours worked at the appropriate overtime rate, whichever is the greater.
•27*
13.18	No provision in this Agreement shall entitle an employee to more than one overtime premium payment for the same hours worked.
13.19	This Article is only for the purpose of establishing hours of work and of calculating overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, except as noted in Sections 13.16 and 13.17 above.
13.20	An employee who is required to report for overtime work in order to load a vessel, and who is subsequently notified at home, either not lo report, or to delay reporting by four hours or more, shall be entitled to compensation equal to two hours pay at his regular straight time rate.
ARTICLE 14 RATES OF PAY
14.01	The Company and the Union agree that the rates of pay as set forth in the attached “Schedule A shall be the minimum rates of pay, shall form part of this agreement and shall continue to be in effect for the duration of this agreement.
14.02	A shift premium of forty-three cents ($0.43) per hour and sixty-four cents ($0.64) per hour shall be paid for work performed on all # 3 or # 1 shifts. This premium will not be paid to employees called into work in accordance with Article 13.17 (a).
The shift premium payable for overtime attached to a shift will be that of the employee's scheduled shift.
When overtime is required on an employee’s non-scheduled day(s), the shift premium that applies for all continuous hours worked will be determined by the employee's start time as per Article 13.02. The overtime rate will be as defined in Article 13.04.
• 28*
’i'4.03 A premium of forty-four cents ($0.44) per hour shall be paid for all time worked underground.
14.04	a) Employees who are required to work Saturday as part of
their regular scheduled work week shall receive a premium of five dollars ($5.00) per hour for all hours worked on Saturday Shifts as defined in 13.02.
b) SUNDAY PREMIUMS
Employees when working on a seven (7) day shift schedule, shall be paid for all regularly scheduled hours worked on Sunday as part of their regular work week, at two (2) times their regular straight time rate for all hours worked on Sunday Shifts as defined in 13.02.
14.05	The calculation of overtime or holiday rates shall not be applied to shift, underground, Saturday premium or Sunday premium.
14.06	An employee who is temporarily transferred for the convenience of the company shall receive the rate of the newjoborthe rate of his regular job, whichever is higher. A temporary transfer shall not exceed 60 days or in the case of a transfer to replace an employee on weekly indemnity, the length of the absence.
14.07	Whenever a new job is established or there is a substantial change in the duties of an existing job, the Company will meet with the Union negotiating committee to negotiate a rate for the new or changed job. This meeting will take place at the earliest practical date. The new rate shall be based on the job classifications and rates contained in Schedule A. If necessary, the Company will establish an interim rate to be used until agreement is reached on a final rate. In the event the parties cannot reach agreement on a final rate, the matter shall be
• 29 •
referred to arbitration in accordance with article 10. It is understood and agreed that each party shall submit its final best offer and the arbitrator shall be limited to choosing one or the other of these offers. If the final rate is higher than the interim rate, a retroactive adjustment shall be made.
14.08	a) All employees working in No.1 or No.3 shaft below the collar or those greasing, inspecting and repairing from the collar to the sheave wheels, shall be paid a shaft premium of thirty cents ($0.30) per hour. The shaft premium of thirty cents ($0.30) will also be paid to the crews engaged on the lowering of major equipmentfrom the centre sheave wheel including slinging equipment or material from or below the skips.
b)	All employees working in No.2 shaft below the collar and those greasing, inspecting or repairing up to but not including the first landing above the collar, shall be paid a shaft premium of thirty cents ($0.30) per hour.
c)	No employee working in the shaft shall earn a straight time rate which when combined with the shaft premium is less than Face Loader rate.
ARTICLE 15 MINE HOLIDAYS
15.01	a) For the purposes of this Agreement, the following days or any days substituted for them by Government decree or general practice shall be recognized as mine holidays.
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Boxing Day
Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Heritage Day
•30*
b)	All employees who have completed their probationary period shall be entitled to an additional eight (8) hours pay at Christmas at their straight time classified rate.
c)	Employees, other than those required for watchman duties, who are regularly scheduled to work #3 Shift immediately preceding Christmas or New Years or both shall not be required to report for work and shall be paid at their scheduled wage rate for eight hours at straight time for each of the above shifts for which he was scheduled.
15.02	An employee shall be entitled to be paid for the above holidays at his scheduled wage rate at straight time for eight hours provided that an employee shall not be entitled to be so paid:
a)	If he does not work on the above holidays or substituted days when he has been required or scheduled to do so; however, an employee shall be paid for a holiday if he has a legitimate reason for being absent from work on the holiday and notifies the Company prior to the start cf his shift on such holiday, or prior to the holiday has received the approval of his supervisor for such absence.
b)	If he is absent without leave on his regularly scheduled working day immediately preceding or his regularly scheduled working day immediately succeeding the above holidays, or substituted days, unless he works on the holiday.
c)	If the above holidays occur while he is laid off, except during the first fourteen (14) calendar days.
d)	If the above holidays occur while he is on leave of absence, or on Workers' Compensation.
• 31 •
15.03
15.04
15.05
e)	Unless he has been in the employ of the Company for forty-five (45) accumulated days in a twelve (12) month period.
An employee who is required to work overtime hours on any of the above holidays between 00:01 and 24:00 hours shall be paid for such overtime hours worked at two (2) times his classified straight time rate exclusive of such holiday pay to which he may be entitled as set forth in Section 15.02.
Should any of the holidays in 15.01 (a)fall within an employee's vacation period, he shall receive an additional day's pay provided he qualifies for such holiday under clause 15.02. An employee who qualifies for the holiday may choose to take one (1) day off without pay at a time mutually agreed between himself and his supervisor.
a)	All regular employees shall be entitledto two (2) "floating" holidays per year with pay for eight (8) hours at their scheduled straight time rate. The day observed as a floating holiday shall be such day as may be mutually agreed upon between an employee and his foreman.
b)	An employee who has completed his first six (6) months of service with the Company shall be entitled to one (1) floating holiday.
Upon completion of his second (2nd) six (6) months of service he shall be entitled to a second (2nd) floating holiday.
No employee will be entitled to more than the maximum floating holiday allowance in any calendar year.
• 32*
c) Outstanding floating holidays not scheduled by the employee prior to November 15th of each calendar year shall be assigned by the Company.
15.06	No production, shipping or regular maintenance work will be scheduled on Christmas Day, New Year’s Day or on #3 Shift on the day preceding Christmas Day and New Year's Day; however, watchmen and some emergency services which, f not provided, would not allow production to resume on the next regular shift may be required.
15.07	Employeeswhose normal schedule would require them to work #3 Shift preceding Christmas or New Year’s and who are required to work the shift, will be paidfor such work at the rate cf time and one-half in addition to the eight hours to which they are entitled under Article 15.02.
15.08	When an employee is drawing Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation and a Mine Holiday occurs during that period, he shall be paid the difference between eight (8) hours pay at his straight time rate and Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation as long as he is receiving Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation.
ARTICLE 16 VACATION WITH PAY
16.01	The vacation year shall be January 1st to December 31st and the vacation week commences with Monday’s #1 Shift and consists of seven (7) consecutive days.
16.02	All employees who have completed less than one (1) year of continuous service with the Company in any year, shall be entitled to vacation pay equal to four percent (4%) of earnings during the vacation year in which the vacation credit is earned.
• 33 •
16.03	Employees who complete one (1) year of service in any calendar year will be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay based on four percent (4%) of the employee's previous year's earnings.
16.04	Employees who complete five (5) years of service in any calendar year will be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay, based on six percent (6%) of the employee's previous year's earnings.
16.05	Employees who complete ten (10) years of service in any calendar year will be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay based on eight percent (8%) of the employee’s previous year’s earnings.
16.06	Employees who complete twenty (20) years cf service in any calendar year will be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation with pay based on ten percent (10%) of the employee's previous year's earnings.
16.07	Certain employees shall have an option to elect a 6th week of paid vacation in accordance with letter of understanding #7.
16.08	Vacations shall be taken within the vacation year, at times scheduled by the Company, to cause the least disturbance to the efficient operation of the Mine. So far as is practical, preference shall be given to the applications for allotment of vacation time on the basis of seniority. The employees shall indicate their preference no later than March 15th.
16.09	For those employees taking their full vacation's entitlement in January, February or March,the Company will consider granting one week leave of absence continuous with vacation subject to the number of employees presentingsuch a request.
16.10	Pay for regular vacation entitlement due on termination of employment shall be calculated in accordance with the applicable provision of article 16 and shall be based on the employee's earnings during the vacation year in which employment is terminated. If necessary, vacation pay shall be adjusted to avoid any duplicate payment.
16.11	If an employee is absent from work underthe Weekly Indemnity Plan or Workers' Compensation Plan during the year in which his vacation credit is earned and has worked at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the scheduled hours during that qualifying year, any payment received by him from the Weekly Indemnity Plan or Workers' Compensation Plan shall be deemed to be part of his earnings for the purpose only of determining vacation pay in the qualifying year.
16.12	Employees affected by 16.11 may not be required to take their full vacation entitlement, however the employee must take the minimum time off that corresponds to the vacation pay that he has earned rounded up to the nearest week or two (2) weeks vacation time whichever is greater.
16.13	An employee who is eligible for LTD, or an employee who will be absent on W.C.B. for a prolonged and indefinite period, will be scheduled on vacation until all accrued vacation has been consumed. LTD benefits shall commence on expiration cf the vacation period and payment cf compensation benefits shall be in accordance with the Worker's Compensation Act.
ARTICLE 17
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
17.01	It is the intention of the parties hereto that no employee shall be required to work under conditions which are unsafe or unhealthy, therefore:
• 35 •
a)	The parties agree to endorse and comply with the current Occupational Health and Safety Act, together with any other applicable Health and Safety Legislation and includingthe respective Regulationsthereto; however, the terms of Legislationand Regulations are governed by law and are not subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures of the Collective Agreement.
b)	Any referencesto Legislationherein expressedshall mean Legislation by and of the Government cf the Province cf Ontario or the Dominion of Canada as applied at present or as may be revised.
17.02	a) The Company recognizes its responsibilityto provide a
safe and healthy working environment for all personswho are affectedby the provisions of the CollectiveAgreement.
m The Company shall make all necessary and reasonable provisionsforthe safety and health of itsemployeesduring the hours cf their employmentand shall provide protective equipment and other safety devices in accordance with the foregoing legislation, itspresent practicesand as may be deemed appropriatethrough consultation by the parties hereto.
17.03	a) The parties mutually recognize their obligation to work
co-operatively in the development and maintenance cf safe and healthy working conditions.
b) The partiesfurther agree to make all reasonable efforts to improve and promote safe and healthy conditions and to encourageemployeesto observe and comply with all Mine and Legislative Safety Regulations.
• 36 •
17.04	The functions, powers and terms of reference of the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be as outlined in the Occupational Health and Safety Act, and Regulations for Mines and Mining Plants or as additionally provided hereunder which shall minimally include:
a)	the Committee shall make inspections once a month of the mine site.
b)	the Committee shall be provided with all Workers' Compensation reports, accident and occupational illness reports, other than minor injury reports, near miss reports, incident reports, work refusal reports, and any environmental health and safety studies relating to the mining and salt industry of which the Company, the Committee or the Union are aware and deem to be relevant for the review, consideration and appropriate action by the Committee. The foregoing shall include threshold limit values and appropriate precautions as are available from the Ontario Ministry of Labour.
c)	the Committee shall meet once a month to review and make appropriate recommendations regarding:
-	inspection by the Committee or other authoritative bodies, and any actions on recommendations or directions therefrom:
-	procedures and/or work practices;
-	all accidents or near misses;
-	any health and safety studies and/or reports relevant to the mining industry, or;
• 37 •
- such other matters as may be referred by the Company, the Union, or as may be decided by the Committee.
The Committee shall consider all such matters including items of previous minutes and action thereon and forthwith make recommendations to the Company.
d)	the Committee will be Co-chaired by the Company and the Union.
e)	the Committee shall cause to have minutes of each meeting promptly posted and distributed to all members and the parties hereto. Any differences as to the completeness or accuracy of the minutes shall be included in the subsequent minutes.
f)	the Committee members shall beprovided adequate prior notice of the time and place of each meeting and shall minimally be remunerated pursuant to the applicable legislation.
17.05	A designated Union member of the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall inspect the place where an accident has occurred resulting in a fatality or an employee being critically injured. Union members of the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall investigate accidents involving fatalities and disabling injuries having potential for extended loss of time by an employee.
17.06	The Company shall conduct periodic on site air sampling, noise testing, hearing loss testing programs by qualified personnel with recognized Government approved equipment. The results of the testing and sampling will be made available to the Joint Health and Safety Committee.
•38*
17.07	The Company agrees to provide a safety education program including an indoctrination and training program for new employees.
17.08	Joint Health and Safety Committee members who are bargaining unit employees will not act as witnesses in instances of discipline or discharge related to safety violations.
17.09	The Company agrees to continue to implement engineering methods for the establishment and maintenance of a healthy and safe environment.
17.10	Letters of Understanding regarding safe practices and procedures outlining minimum standards for safety and health at the mine site are attached hereto. It is understood that these letters may be amended or other Letters added by agreement of the parties.
17.11	Employees shall not be required by the Company to work underground during periods of power failure, when there is no voice communication at all between underground and surface or when all hoists are inoperative.
17.12	On the first pay period in February,active employees who have attained seniority and who worked at least 6 months during the previous 12 shall receive a safety footwear allowance Cf $80.00. Newemployeesshall receivetheirfirst allowance oncompletion of the probationary period.
17.13	The Company will provide an employee who requires prescription safety glasses with a maximum of one pair per year. The Company will pay 50% cf the cost should damage necessitate a second pair within the same year.
• 39 •
17.14	The company will provide coverall cleaning services as follows:
■	2 changes per week (5 coveralls) for employees in the
maintenance department.
•	1 change per week (3 coveralls) for all other employees.
17.15	The company will ensure that shared personal protective equipment will be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
ARTICLE 18 GENERAL
18.01	The company agrees to provide a boardfor the posting of union notices. Such notices shall be for the purpose of conveying information only, must be signed by a union official and approved by the company
18.02	An employee shall be granted compassionate leave for the purpose of arranging and attending the funeral of a family member. Any absence from scheduled working shifts within such a leave shall be compensated as follows:
-	up to 4 daysfbr the deathof an employee’sspouse, child, stepchild, parent, stepparent or sibling.
■ up to 3 days, (1 day for attendingthe funeral only), for the death of an employee’s mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
-	in the event of a winter death and spring burial, one of the days may be taken at the time of the burial.
-	up to 2 days for a funeral outside North America if the employee does not attend the funeral.
•40*
18.03	Jury Or Witness Duty
The Company will make up the difference between the regular day’s pay and the fee received by any employee who is required to perform jury duty, or who is subpoenaed to give evidence for the Crown or for a Coroner.
The Company may require the employee to furnish a certificate of service signed by the Clerk of the Court, or the Coroner, before making any payment under this Article.
18.04	Lead hands
A working leadhand is a member of the bargaining unit who leads and co-ordinates the activities of a number of men in carrying out the work assignments as directed by the Supervisor, while exercising no discipline.
18.05	All references to days in this Agreement shall mean working days.
18.06	In all cases of interpretation or arbitration cf the terms of this Agreement, the text of the original signed copies shall govern.
18.07	The use of the masculine gender in this Agreement includes the feminine.
ARTICLE 19 GROUP INSURANCE
19.01 The Company shall continue the Group Insurance Plan during the term of this Agreement comprising:
•41 •
a)	Group Life Insurance benefits, Accidental Death and Dismemberment benefits(AD&D), Weekly Indemnity(WI), Long Term Disability (LTD), Hospital, Major Medical benefits, Dental Plan, Family Eyeglass Plan. Eligibility is based on full-time employment and upon application by the employee. Effective date of coverage for benefits is dependant uponthe individualbenefit and employees must refer to the plan booklet. The plan will be administeredin accordance with the terms and conditions of the master insurance policy.
b)	WEEKLY INDEMNITY
Weekly Indemnity shall be paid at sixty six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of an employee’s basic straight time classified rate multiplied by forty (40) hours, with compulsory participationand integrated with government plans. It will be payableon the first day of non-occupational accident, the first day of hospitalizationand the fourth day of illness. It will be payable for a maximum of thirty-two (32) weeks. Employees should refer to the plan booklet for exceptions and limitations.
c)	LIFE INSURANCE
Coverage is one and one half (11/2) times the employees straight time classified rate multipliedby2080 and adjusted to the nearest one hundreddollars ($1 00.00). Employees should refer to the plan booklet for details.
d)	ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT
Coverage is one and one half (11/2) times the employees straight time classified rate multiplied by 2080 and adjusted
■42'
to the nearest one hundred dollars ($100.00). Employees should refer to the plan booklet for details.
e)	RETIREE LIFE INSURANCE
Existing Life and AD&D Insurance reduces on the following basis:
1)	100% of Life and AD&D Insurance in effect immediately prior to retirement remains in effect for the first year of retirement.
2)	Coverage reduces to 75% the second year of retirement.
3)	Coverage reduces to 50% the third year of retirement.
4)	25% of coverage thereafter.
f)	MAJOR MEDICAL
The Major Medical benefit is designed to complement the Provincial Health Plan. Should the Provincial Plan change to include any of the expenses currently eligible under this plan, the Sifto Canada Plan will automatically adjust accordingly.
The benefit pays a percentage of all eligible expenses recommended as necessary by a physician which are reasonable and customary in the area in which the expenses are incurred and which are in excess of any other benefits payable under this plan and in excess of the deductible.
•43 •
i)	The deductible is the amount of eligible expenses each calendar year which must be paid in full by the employee before any benefits are payable. The deductible is twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for those insured for employee only coverage; or twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for those insured for employee and dependent coverage.
Eligible expenses incurred in the last three months of the calendar year which are not sufficientto be applied against the deductible for that year will also be applied against the deductible for the next year.
ii)	The maximum amount payable for each employee in any one year is thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) less any benefits paid in the immediately preceding two (2) calendar years.
iii)	The appropriate portion of the following expenses will be paid,providedthe expenses charged are reasonable and medically necessary:
Drugs payable at 100%
Mental and Nervous Disorders payable at 50%
General and Medical Expenses payable at 80%
The Major Ontario Medical benefit, shall provide coverage for emergency treatment outside Canada. The planwill reimbursefor emergencytreatmentscosts according to reasonable and customary fees for the area in which they were incurred as follows:
•44*
1)	in excess of the benefits provided by the provincial hospital insurance program and under the basic hospital benefit, for a maximum of 31 days per period of disability,
2)	for the professional services of a physician over and above the amounts recognized by OHIP.
This coverage is subject to any other plan provisions, eg. deductible.
Employees should refer lo the plan booklet for details regarding all group benefits.
g)	SEMI-PRIVATE HOSPITAL COVERAGE
Full semi-private hospital coverage will be provided as part of the Group Insurance Plan.
h)	LONG TERM DISABILITY
The Long Term Disability Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of the Insurance Policy and shall contain the following governing provisions:
1)	Eligibility - The L.T.D. Plan shall be compulsory for all full time regular employees who are participants in and who are covered for Weekly Indemnity Benefits under the existing Group Insurance Plan.
2)	Qualifying Period - “Qualifying period" means thirty, two (32) consecutive and cumulative weeks of Weekly Indemnity Benefits for one disability.
•45 •
3)	Definitionof Disabilityin L.T.D. Plan-“Disability” shall mean an insured employee who has received thirty-two (32) weeks of benefits under the weekly indemnity plan and who, for an additional period of thirty-six (36) months, is unable, because of non-occupational disease or accidental bodily injury! to perform any and every duty of every occupation in the Mine for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience and thereafter is unable to perform any and every duty of any occupation for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience.
4)	Amounts of Benefits -A 11 employees who are actively at work on the effective date of the plan or any amendments thereto shall be provided with a Long Term Disability Benefit equal to fifty percent (50%) of regularstraighttime hourly rate multiplied by 2,080 and divided by twelve (12) up to a maximum monthly payment of $1,900.00.
The amount of benefits shall be reduced by any primary payments made under any Government disability plan, Workers' Compensation, or any other non-private disability income plans.
The amount of benefit shall not be reduced by Disability Pension payments under War Veterans' or Workers' Compensation if the disability is unrelated.
Employees should refer to the plan booklet for exclusions and other details.
5)	Duration of Benefits To Be The Earlier Of:
a)	a benefit period equal to months of service
b)	age65
• 46 •
c)	date	of retirement
d)	date	of death
e)	date	the employee	ceases to be disabled
6)	Group Insurance and Pension Plan benefits while receiving L.T.D.
i)	Pension Entitlement - Employees on L.T.D. will continue to receive the employer contributions as per the terms and conditions of the Pension Plan.
ii)	Disability pension payments will only become payable as per the terms and conditions of the Pension Plan.
iii)	Company Paid Life Insurance - Coverage will be maintained on a waiver of premium basis. Installment life benefits will be paid if an employee under age sixty-five (65) continues to be totally disabled and he no longer has benefit entitlement under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and L.T.D. Plan.
iv)	Group Accidental Death and Dismemberment - Coverage will be terminated while an employee is receiving L.T.D. benefits.
v)	Major Medical and Dental - Coverage will be maintained in accordance with the conditions applying under the Collective Agreement.
vi)	An employee on L.T.D. shall not accumulate credit for vacation or holidays.
vii)	An employee who returns to work after being on L.T.D. shall be credited with accumulated service.
.47.
i)	DENTAL PLAN
The Companyshall provide a dental planwith participation compulsory for all employees covered by the bargaining unit on the following basis:
i)	Eligible Expenses
Eligible Expenses under this plan are expenses for dental treatment recommended as necessary by a physician or dentist which are not in excess of the minimum fee specified in the Dental Fee Schedule for the Province of Ontario.
ii)	Module I Basic Coverage
The plan provides employees and their eligible dependents with reimbursement of eighty percent (80%) of the cost of the following expenses: Diagnostic preventive therapy, oral surgery, minor restorative dentistry, repairs of an existing appliance, endodontics and periodontics. Employees should refer to the plan booklet for details.
iii)	ModuleII Major Restorative
The Company will provide a Module II Dental Plan which provides employees and their eligible dependents with reimbursement of eighty percent (80%) of the cost of the following expenses: crowns and inlays, replacement or creation of an appliance andservicesof a licensedDenturist. Employeesshould refer to the plan booklet for details.
•48*
iv)	Module III Orthodontics
The Company will provide a Module III Dental Plan which provides employees and their eligible dependants with reimbursement of fifty percent (50%) of their cost of orthodontic treatment, vertical dimension correction, correction of temporomandibular joint dysfunction, or full mouth reconstruction. This plan will have a one thousand two hundred and fifty dollar ($1500.00) lifetime maximum.
Employees should refer to the plan booklet for details.
v)	Administration
These plans will be administered in accordance with the terms and conditions of the master policy: the decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle will be made by the Company.
vi)	Effective date cf coverage
Eligibility for these benefits shall apply only to those employees who are actually at work on the effective date of the plan. If an employee is not actively at work on the effective date of this plan or any amendment thereof, coverage will commence when he returns to work full time. New employees will become eligible for coverage after one (1) year of continuous service.
vii)	Integration with other Plans
If an employee is insured simultaneously under any other plan which provide benefits similar to those
• 49 •
provided under this plan, payment of benefitsfor that employee or his eligible dependents under this plan will be determined by the co-ordination of benefits provision. The payments from all sources will not exceed the total of actual expenses incurred.
viii)	Integration with Government Plans
The plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by Provincial or Federal legislation. If during the life of this Agreement Provincial or Federal Governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by the plan, the plan shall be amendedso as to eliminate said benefits. Any resulting premium savings shall accrue to the Company and employees in accordance with the cost sharing in effect.
j)	FAMILY EYEGLASS PLAN
The Company shall provide a family eyeglass plan. The plan will providea maximum benefit of one hundred dollars ($100.00) every two (2) calendar years for employees and each eligible dependent. This benefit will cover the cost of frames, lenses, fitting of prescription glasses, and contact lenses.
k)	COST SHARING FOR PREMIUMS
The Company shall contribute one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost of these benefits except as follows:
j) Module II, Dental Plan premiums will be fifty percent (50%) paid by participating employees.
• 50-
ii) as provided in 19.01 (m) and (n).
I)	EFFECTIVE DATE OF COVERAGE AND U.I.C. REBATE
Changes in the group insurance plan will take place only for those employees who are actively at work as of the effective date, who would otherwise qualify and for employees off work who otherwise qualify, as of their first full day of active employment thereafter.
In view of the improvement in Weekly Indemnity, Life Insurance, and the introduction of the Major Medical Plan and the increased premium costs to be paid by the Company, the employee’s share of the premium reduction (5/12 portion) of the Unemployment Insurance Premium forthe effective date underthe U.I.C. Act from the effective date of implementation shall be retained by the Company.
m)	CONTINUATION OF BENEFITS FOR LAY-OFF
Employees with one (1) or more years of service shall have Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Major Medical, and Semi-private benefits continued on the cost sharing as provided above until the first of the month following sixty (60) days of layoff, thereafter the employee may maintain benefits as listed herein for the balance of the first four (4) months of lay-off by paying the full cost of the premiums.
n)	CONTINUATIONOF BENEFITS FOR EARLY RETIREES
The Company shall pay fifty percent (50%) of the cost cf Major Medical for employees who retire early. This benefit shall cease when the employee reaches age sixty-five (65).
• 51 •
20.01
20.02
20.03
ARTICLE 20 PENSION PLAN
The Company Pension Plan for Goderich Mine is available to employees in accordance with the terms and conditions of said Plan. The Pension Plan forms part of this Agreement and will be administered in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
It is understood and agreed that any employee with a service date later than 1/1/75 shall receive a special pension contribution equal to 30 hours of pay at his average hourly rate from the previous year. Such payments shall commence during his 25th year of service and continue for each subsequent year he remains an active full time employee. Such contributions shall be made on or before October 1st.
An employee who has attained 60 years of age and 26 years of continuous service shall be entitled to a paid retirement leave immediately prior to the commencement of his normal retirement, in accordance with the following schedule.
AGE AT RETIREMENT	WEEKS OF LEAVE
61
62
63
64
65
1
3
6
10
15
Payment for each week of this leave shall be calculated as 40 times the employee's classified rate at the time of the employee's last day worked.
•52*
ARTICLE 21
TRAINING
21.01	a) An employee who is receiving training either for backup
or as the result of a job posting will be paid at his posted rate during the training and qualification period.
b) An employee who is receiving training off site shall be covered by the collective agreement. Any special needs shall be arranged by agreement of the parties.
21.02	MAINTENANCETRAINING PROGRAM
Preamble
The parties recognize the importance and value of ensuring that Maintenance Department employees have a thorough knowledge cf methods, practices and skills of their trades in order to meet the needs of Industry and to acquire the appropriate certificates of qualification or recognition available through the Ministry of Colleges and Universities, or as may otherwise be recognized by the parties if not designated or regulated officially.
The Company agrees to enter into an Apprenticeship Maintenance Training Program to qualify present and future employees in the trades appropriate to the Goderich Mine requirements and thereby provide the opportunity of Ministry of Colleges and Universities Certification.
1.	Purpose
The Maintenance Training Program is to qualify present and future Maintenance Department employees with a Certificate of Apprenticeship and a Certificate of Qualification in the following trades:
•53 •
Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic (Regulated)
Industrial Mechanic - Millwright (Regulated)
Construction and Maintenance Electrician (Regulated)
2.	EducationalQualifications
a)	An employee applying for apprenticeshiptraining must have a minimum of Grade 10 standing in an Ontario School or an equivalent level of education.
b)	Acceptance into the Maintenance Training Program shall be conditional upon the employee satisfying the requirements established by the Ministry of Colleges and Universitiesfor entry into the trade.
c)	Employees who are certified and/or practising as a Group I Journeyman at the Mine, are not eligible for this program.
3.	Training
a)	Training and instruction will consist of practicalon-the-job training and coupled with related instruction at a College of Applied Arts and Technology.
b)	The apprentice will be required to complete the necessary periods of training and instruction as set out in the regulations for the trade in question.
c)	The periods of time to be spent at a College of Applied Arts and Technology shall be determined by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities.
•54*
4.	Training Allowance
a)	When an apprentice attends courses at a College of Applied Arts and Technology, tuition fees, living allowance and travel expenses are paid by the Federal Department of Employment and Immigration and the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities under a shared cost arrangement.
b)	When an apprentice is required to attend at a College of Applied Arts and Technology, the Company will consider those hours which the apprentice attends school as hours worked for the purposes of this Agreement. It is understood that the maximum number of hours so considered will be forty (40) hours in a week and payment will be at the rate of pay of the group to which he is assigned at the time in question. Where an employee is absent from school on a day on which he is required to attend, he shall not be entitled to receive pay from the Company for such day.
c)	Where an apprentice fails the examination administered by the College of Applied Arts and Technology and repeats same, he shall not be paid by the Company for time lost from work.
d)	When an apprentice successfully completes the Maintenance Training Program and furnishes proofthat he qualifies for a Certificate of Apprenticeship and a Certificate of Qualification, he shall be paid the full rate for the trade classification effective from the beginning of the pay period immediately following the completion of the prescribed hours of training and instruction established for him by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities.
• 55 •
5.	Failure to Maintain Satisfactory Performance
Employees entering the Maintenance Training Program who have completed thei probationary period and who fail to maintain a satisfactory level of performance or request to be removed from the program will, if maintained in employment, be assigned to the job classification of Labourer and paid the appropriate rate.
6.	DeterminationOf Number Of Apprentices
a)	The determination of the number of apprentices in any given Trade shall be determined by the Company. Subject to the appropriate Government Regulations and as herein provided the Company agrees to fill all projected Trade complement expansions or vacancies as a result of predictable attrition through the Maintenance Training Program up to a maximum of four (4) at any one (1) time.
b)	The number of apprentices allowed to attend a College of Applied Arts and Technology at any one (1) time, shall be determined by the Company.
c)	All apprentices shall be registered under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmens’ Qualifications Act of the Government of Ontario.
7.	Rates Of Pay
Rates of pay shall be in accordance with the following Schedule of Training. The initial assignment to the appropriate group shall be on the basis of the employee's qualifications as determined by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities.
• 56 •
SCHEDULE OF TRAINING
0% - 25% cf Hours 25% - 50% cf Hours
60% of Group I Maintenance Rate 70% of Group I Maintenance Rate
50% - 75% of Hours
and successful completion} - 80% of Group I Maintenance Rate of first term schooling
75% -100% of Hours
and successful completion) - 90% of Group I Maintenance Rate of second term schooling
100% of Hours
and successful completion) - 100% of Group I Maintenance Rate of third term schooling and Journeyman exam
Employees in the program must complete both the classroom instruction and complement of hours before moving to the next section of the pay scale. Employees who are unableto progress with both classroom and hands on training will be removed from the program in accordance with Part 5 of Article 21.02. Where the schooling is unavailable within a three (3) hour driving radius, and the employee has completed the complement ofhours appropriate to a given section of the pay scale, he shall be moved to the next level of the pay scale with the understanding that he must complete the classroom training within a twelve (12) month period.
• 57*
1.03 Recognitionof Skills
Incumbent Maintenance Group I employees who wish to acquire recognition of their skills and who can satisfy the requirements of the Ministry of Colleges and Universitieswill be assisted by the Company through the provisions of the necessary documentation and technical guidance, where applicable.
ARTICLE 22
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
22.01	This Agreement shall become effective as of the date of ratificationbythe partiesand shall remain in full force and effect until the 31st day of March, 1998 and from year to year thereaftenrnless either party gives notice to the other party of an intent to terminate or amend this agreement.
Such notice shall be given in writing not earlier than 90 days, and at least 30 days before the expiry date of this agreement or the anniversary date of any subsequent period in which this agreement remains in effect.
22.02	The initial meeting for the purpose cf negotiating a modified Agreement shall be held within thirty (30) days after the above notice is given. Pending negotiations of any proposed modifications in the terms of this Agreement, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
22.03	Unless specifically designated otherwise, all the terms and conditionsof employment, as set forth in this Agreement, shall become effective on the ratificationcf this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Union have causedthese presents to be executedby their duly authorized representative.
• 58 •
SIFTO CANADA INC. GODERICH MINE, GODERICH, ONTARIO
Bill Sichko
Allan Weir
Don Dickie
Ashley Brown
THE COMMUNICATION, ENERGY AND PAPER WORKERS' UNION LOCAL 16-0
Peter Kingyens
Bob Carver
Mark Rowe
Al Robb
Gord Bell
Bill Vincent
Guy Robinson
Ratified this 18th day of June, 1995
•59*
SCHEDULE“A”
RATES OF PAY
April 1,1995 to March31,1998
Development Miner
Face Scaler..........
Shaftman.............
Face Loader Operator Mechanical Scaler Operator Bench Scaler Operator Diamond Drill Operator Truck Operator.......
Drill Operator.......
Cutter Operator......
Blaster..............
Downhole Drill Operator.
Mill Operator........
Skip Tender..........
Trench Man............
Small Drill Operator...
Grader Operator.......
Utility Loader........
Roof Bolter Operator
Backchecker................
Development Backchecker,
Nipper......................
Clean up Crew..............
Ventilation Crew.............
Material Handling Crew....
Labourer..................
Probationary Labourer.....
$20.89
$20.64
$20.64
$20.64
$20.64
$20.64
$20.64
$20.64
$20.42
$20.42
$20.42
$20.42
$20.42
$20.42
$20.16
$20.16
$20.16
$20.16
$20.16
$20.16
$20.16
$20.16
$20.16
$20.16
$20.16
$19.75
$19.03
•60*
Shipper......................
Mill Operator................
Surface Loader Operator......
Vehicle and Equipment Operator
Mill Helper..................
Warehouseman.................
Probationary Labourer........
$20.29
$20.29
$20.29
$20.16
$19.91
$19.76
$19.03
Leadhand ................
Journeyman Interprovincial
Journeyman...............
Tradesman................
Labourer.................
Probationary Labourer....
Hoistman.................
Janitor..................
$23.16
$22.52
$22.42
$22.32
$19.75
$19.03
$22.42
$19.76
NOTE:
1.	Third man on the rail loading crew will be paid vehicle operator rate.
2.	No. 1 and No. 3 hoists will be operated by a posted hoistman.
3.	The probationary maintenance rate will be $0.25/hour below the classified job rate, during the probationary period.
4.	Job vacancies in the job classification Face Scaler will not be posted.
• 61 •
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
SIFTO CANADA INC.
GODERICH MINE And
COMMUNICATION, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL 16 - 0
•62-
OPTIONAL LIFE INSURANCE AND A.D.&D. COVERAGE
The Company will provide Optional Life Insurance and AD&D Coverage of five thousand dollars $5,000 with the premium cost to be one hundred percent (100%) paid by the participating employees subject to the following conditions:
1.	Optional Coverage is available for both Life Insurance and AD&D. Separate coverage is not available.
2.	Selection of Optional Coverage must be made priorto October 25, 1985, by all employees on the payroll September 16th, 1985.
3.	Optional Coverage will commence November 1,1985, for all employees actively at work. Employees not actively at work who have notifiedthe Company prior to October 25,1985, that they wished the Optional Coverage will be eligible for the Optional Coverage upon their return to work.
4.	New employees will be required to notify the Company if they wish the optional coverage at the time they are eligible for Group Insurance Benefits.
5.	This Optional Coverage is provided at the employee's expense for the benefit of the employee and does not form part of the retiree benefit plan.
• 63 •
COPIES OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
The Company will provide enough copies of the Collective Agreement to the Local Union for distribution to Local 16-0 Bargaining Unit employees. The Companywill also supply enoughcopiesforthe Union to distribute to New Bargaining Unit employees of C.E.P. Local 16-0.
• 64 •
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 3
ROOF BOLTING PRACTICE
A working face will not be cut, drilled or loaded until the roof has been bolted to within one pattern of the face.
Notwithstanding the above, bolting needs in test areas will beassessed through proper engineering practices. Upon successful completion of these evaluations, bolting practices will be applied based on the test area results.
Headings made with a Continuous Miner may not require bolting. However, ground support will be done on an as necessary basis to handle any unusual ground conditions encountered.
NOTE: This letter is subject to review by the Joint Health and Safety Committee during the term of Agreement.
• 65 •
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
COMMUNICATIONS
Telephones will be made available at the underground portable substations located in the area of the active working faces.
These will be in additionto telephones presentlyinservice underground.
NOTE: This Letter is subject to review by the Joint Health and Safety Committee during the term of Agreement.
• 66 •
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5 DEVELOPMENT MINER
The company is prepared to adjust the development miner position as follows:
1.	Development Miner will include the occupations of Over/ Under Cutter, Development Drill, Development Load and Blast, LHD, Development Scale, Development Bolter and Dozer. This position will be the highest paid production position in the mine.
2.	Within this position employees will be assigned on the basis of seniority subject to the efficient operation of the business and allocation of skills.
3.	An employee who accepts a posting in the Development Miner occupation will be trained on a minimum of 3 occupations in the first 12 months.
4.	The occupations of Bench Scaler Operator, Blaster, Undercutter, Downhole Drill, Development Backchecker and Nipper will be discreet positions which are posted separately. Employees currently on these occupations will remain.
• 67 •
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#6
COST CONTAINMENT PROGRAM
The companyand union understandthat the cost of group benefitshas been and continues to escalate each year. This has a major impact on the company's ability to provide benefits in the future. Accordingly, the union agrees to participate with the company in a review of the existing group benefit programs. The purpose of the review is to identify opportunities to reduce costs or limit future cost increases without subjecting employees to undue hardship.
It is understood and agreed that no changes will be made to the current programs without union agreement.
• 68 •
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#/
6TH VACATION WEEK
It is understood and agreed that any employee with a service date of 1/ 1/75 or earlier who has completed his 25th year of service, shall have the option of converting his supplemental pension payment into a 6th week of vacation entitlement, based on 2% of the employee's previous year's earnings.
• 69 •
	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#8 SHORT TERM MINE SHUT DOWN
The Company and the Union agree that the following is the procedure to be followed in the event of a SHORT TERM MINE SHUTDOWN, which is not related to Business, Sales or Shipping requirements.	
a)	In the event of a Planned Mine Shutdown of eight (8) hours or less, the weekly schedule of one (1) or more shifts will be adjusted to accommodate time lost as a result of the shutdown, by operating on an open shift that week.
b)	In the event of a Planned Mine Shutdown of eight (8) hours to twenty-four (24) hours duration, or an unplanned mine shut down of twenty-four (24) hours or less, any employee not required at work will be laid off for the shift that they are scheduled to work for the duration of the shutdown. Where a senior employee works short time as a result of these situations, the lost time will be subtracted from the overtime records.
	This procedure does not apply to employees who are already at work or employees who were not notified prior to the commencement of their shift not to report to work. In these cases the provision of Clause 13.16 of the Collective Agreement shall apply.
	•70*
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #9 TEMPORARY VACANCIES AND JOB QUALIFICATIONS	
This letter applies only to the Mining Department labour pool unless otherwise specified.	
1.	Temporary vacancies of four days or less shall normally be filled by the senior qualified employee in the labour pool on the shift in which the vacancy occurs subject to the efficient operation of the business and allocation of skills.
2.	Temporary vacancies which cover a complete work week will normally be filled by the senior qualified employee in the labour pool on the shift on which the vacancy occurs. However, a qualified posted employee on the shift will be allowed to exercise his seniority to fill such a vacancy provided he has indicated a preference for the vacancy in writing in advance.
3.	The company shall maintain an up to date list of the jobs on which each employee is qualified and this information will be the only basis by which qualifications are recognized.
4.	From time to time the company will determine the backup skill requirements for each shift for the current and near term level of operations and compare these requirements against the skills available on the shift. Where a shortfall exists sufficient training will be initiated to meet the requirements. Employees will be selected for training from the labour pool and in order of seniority from among those who:
	• 71 •
- are on the appropriate shift.
possess the mental and physical skills to perform the work safely and efficiently.
are interested in performing the work.
5.	Effective on the ratification date of this agreement, an employee who receives training for an additional position, will not be eligible for training on another position until all other members of the labour pool on the same shift have also been trained on one additional position.
6.	When an employee has completed classroom training, equipment will be designated to allow the employee time to become proficient on the job. Employees who are displaced by this process will fall to the labour pool.
All employees at the mine will receive training to decrease the likelihood of being laid off out of seniority in the event of a permanent layoff or elimination of a posting or in the event of a temporary layoff and elimination of a posting which will exceed 30 days. Such training shall be available to any employee whose service and job qualifications do not allow him to displace a more junior employee. The employee will be consulted before deciding the job on which he will be trained.
8.	In the event cf a permanent layoff or elimination of a posting, the first employee to be displaced will be allowed to choose the job on which he will be trained.
•12'
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #10 BUMPING RIGHTS
It is recognized that from time to time, significant schedule changes will be required that may result in temporary layoffs and/or temporary elimination of a posting. Example: Volume variation during the winter causing layoff and/or a variation of the normal seven day schedule to a five or modified five/seven day schedule. If the temporary layoff or temporary elimination of a posting lasts more than five (5) days, Article
6.03	b) (ii) shall be administered as follows:
Part I : Layoff
a)	The company shall prepare a list indicating the number of employees required in each job classification on each shift.
b)	Each employee displaced by the layoff or posting elimination will be given, in order of seniority, the option to bump the most junior employee in any classification on any shift in the department provided the employee exercising this option hasthe qualifications, ?hephysical capabilities and the ability to perform the job in accordance with Company standards.
c)	Senior employees displaced by the layoff or posting elimination who are unable to exercise their seniority rights under b) above can exercise their seniority rights under Article 6.02 in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments.
d)	Following the bumping procedure the shifts may have to be balanced by transferring the most junior employee(s) from the shifts that have the excess.
• 73 •
e)	If the junior employee(s) referred to in d) above is not qualified as provided in Article 6.02 to fill the job vacancy, he will exercise his seniority rights under Article 6.02 in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments.
f)	Once steps a) through e) have been completed, no bumping will be permitted until the next layoff, recall or nextposting eliminationexceptas specifiedinArticle 6.03 c).
Part II : Recall
a) The company shall prepare a list indicatingthe number of employeesrequiredin eachjob classificationon each shift.
b)	An employee displaced through Part I of this letter shall:
i)	When full schedule is immediately resumed, return to the posting held prior to his displacement.
ii)	During a partial recall or partial return to full schedule, of a duration of fourteen (14) calendar days or less, move to the posting held prior to his displacement.
iii)	During a partial recall or partial returnto full schedule, of a duration exceeding fourteen (14) calendar days, be offered the vacancy or vacancies available provided the employee exercising this option has the qualifications, the physical capabilities and the ability to perform the job in accordance with Company standards.
• 74 •
c)	Senior employees affected by the recall who are unable to exercise their seniority rights under (b) iii, above can exercise their seniority rights underArticle 6.02 in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments.
d)	Following the bumping procedure the shifts may have to be balanced by transferring the most junior employee(s) from the shifts that have the excess.
e)	If the junior employee(s) referred to in d) above is not qualified as provided inArticle 6.02 to fill the job vacancy, he will exercise his seniority rights under Article 6.02 in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments.
f)	Once steps a) through e) have been completed, no bumping will be permitted until the next layoff, recall or next posting elimination except as specified inArticle 6.03
c).
•75*
	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING# 11 PERMANENT LAYOFF
It is understood and agreed that a permanent layoff is defined as one which the company declares to be a permanent layoff. Such layoffs may or may not conform to the definition of permanent layoff in the Employment Standards Act or any other legislation.	
In the event of a permanent layoff the following procedures shall be applied to employees with 5 or more years of service, in the order outlined below, until the necessary reduction in complement has been achieved.	
1.	Employees in reverse order of seniority shall be offered the opportunity to resign their employment and accept a severance payment equal to one week's pay for each year of service. Part years of service shall be pro-rated. The minimum amount of severance is $ 5,000. One wee ks pay shall be calculated as the average gross weekly earnings during the employee's previous 12 months of employment. Should this process fail to achieve the necessary reductionthen,
2.	The company will implement any other provisionwhich is acceptable to the company and the union. Should this processfail to achieve the necessary reductionthen,
3.	Employees shall be laid off in accordance with the provisionsof clause 6.03 a).
NOTE: It is understood that any employee will be permitted to meet with a company representative to discuss the terms and conditions under which he is preparedto resign his employment.	
	•76*
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING# 12
SPECIAL EVENTS
The parties agree that, where mutually agreed to through the negotiating committee, the shift schedule of some or all employees can be altered to accommodate special events. Employees will be paid shift, underground and weekend premiums applicable to the shift that would have normally been worked. No overtime premium or call out pay will be applicable to employees whose shift is changed during the first eight hours worked on this shift, except as outlined in Article 13.05 (a).
• 77 •
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING# 13 SHIFT CHANGES
It is understoodand agreed that work schedules and crew compliment are subject to change to meet the demands of the business. However, the company recognizes that minor adjustments affecting only one or two employees are particularly disruptive to those individuals. It is therefore agreed that such changes will be made only to meet an operational need and will not be used as an alternative to discipline.
It is further understood and agreed that when all of the following conditions are met, a job will be reposted.
■	less than 60 days have elapsed since the job was last posted and awarded.
■	during that 60 day period the shift schedule for the job is changed from a Monday to Friday pattern to some other pattern or vice versa.
■	the change in shift schedule is deemed to be permanent.
-	the union requests that the job be reposted.
•78*
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING# 14
LABOUR POOLARRANGEMENT
The company and union have made an agreementin principleas follows:
1.	Within 60 days of the date the collective agreement is ratified, the company will reorganize the structure of the labour pool into 7 distinct groups, each of which will become an integral part of an operating shift.
2.	Employees inthe labour pool may exercise their seniority to choose between a 5 day or 7 day schedule.
3.	At the outset, employees will be assigned to 5 and 7 day schedules so as to ensure a proper mix of skills on each shift.
4.	Sufficient training will be undertaken so that employees can be assigned to the shift their seniority permits within 12 months of the date of initial assignment.
5.	Commencing with the 1996 vacation year, vacations will be booked and scheduled on a shift basis.
6.	During the implementation stage, representatives of the company and union will meet as required to work out the additional details of this arrangement.
7.	The company and union will prepare a new procedure with respectto schedulingvacations reflectingthe structure changes outlined above. Should the parties be unable to reach an agreement, the provisions of Letter #7 in the 1992 agreement shall continue to apply.
•79*
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING# 15 VACATION SCHEDULE
Subject to the provisions of article 16, employees will be allowed to schedule time offforvacation in accordance with the proceduresoutlined below:
1.	Vacation requests are to be made on the form provided and submitted to the employee's shift supervisor.
2.	Requests for vacation to be taken during the months of January, February or March should be submitted from November 15 through November30 inclusive.
3.	Requests for vacation to be taken during the months of April through December should be submittedfrom January 1 through January 20 inclusive.
4.	Vacations requestswhich are notscheduled under2 or3 above may be submitted during the 10 days immediately following the respective closing dates.
5.	Subjectto the provisionsof 16.08, vacation requests under 2,3, or 4 above will be scheduled on the basis of seniority. Requests submitted after December 10 for January, February and March or after January 30 for April through December shall be scheduled on the basis of first come first served.
6.	The maximum number of employees who may be scheduled off at any one time is as follows:
MINING DEPARTMENT
up to three from each of the three production shifts, plus
* up to three from each of the four production shifts, plus
• 80*
up to three from the miscellaneous shift, providedthat
*
not more than twenty four are away at any one time.
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
up to ten, with a maximum of five from the mobile shop, a maximum of three millwrights, a maximum of one electrician and a maximum of one from the labouring group.
SHIPPING DEPARTMENT
prior to moving the bagging line, up to seven.
*
subsequent to moving the bagging line, up to four.
HOISTING
*	one.
JANITORIAL
*	one.
These maximums may be increased by mutual agreement of the parties.
•81 •
SIFTO CANADA INC. GODERICH MINE SENIORITY LIST AS OF July 31,1995
THIS LIST IS FOR QUICK INFORMAL REFERENCEAND IS NOT AN OFFICIAL SENIORITY LIST
ABBREVIATIONS
P- PRODUCTION S-SHIPPING M-MAINTENANCE J-JANITOR
• 82*
NO.	NAME	SENIORITY BATE			DEPT.
1		SEPT	14	1959	S
2		SEPT	22	1959	M
3		FEB	20	1960	M
4		JULY	26	1960	S
5		JULY	29	1960	S
6		JULY	7	1961	S
7		JULY	8	1961	M
8		JUNE	11	1962	M
9		AUG	17	1962	S
10		SEPT	4	1962	M
11		SEPT	25	1962	S
12		OCT	3	1962	P
13		NOV	29	1962	S
14		MAR	25	1964	s
15		APR	12	1965	M
16		JUNE	29	1965	S
17		SEPT	26	1966	P
18		SEPT	29	1966	S
19		OCT	25	1966	S
20		OCT	25	1966	s
21		MAY	15	1967	M
22		APR	29	1968	P
23		APR	29	1968	P
24		APR	30	1968	P
25		JULY	25	1968	s
26		JULY	26	1968	p
27		JULY	28	1968	M
28		OCT	7	1968	M
29		NOV	6	1968	P
30		NOV	16	1968	M
31		JULY	21	1969	M
32		SEPT	8	1969	P
33		NOV	24	1969	s
•83
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
NOV	29	1969	S
APR	13	1970	S
APR	17	1972	S
MAY	15	1972	M
SEPT	24	1973	P
OCT	15	1973	P
OCT	15	1973	M
OCT	15	1973	M
JAN	29	1974	M
MAR	18	1974	M
MAY	30	1974	M
JUNE	17	1974	M
JUNE	17	1974	S
JULY	4	1974	P
JULY	4	1974	P
NOV	11	1974	P
NOV	16	1974	S
DEC	2	1974	M
MAR	3	1975	S
MAR	3	1975	P
MAR	3	1975	J
MAR	17	1975	S
MAR	24	1975	P
APR	8	1975	P
AUG	6	197	J
AUG	9	1975	S
AUG	18	1975	M
SEPT	2	1975	S
SEPT	6	1975	J
SEPT	25	1975	P
SEPT	26	1975	P
SEPT	30	1975	P
OCT	6	1975	P
OCT	28	1975	P
NOV	6	1975	P
•84
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
NOV	19	1975	P
JUNE	15	1976	M
AUG	23	1976	P
AUG	23	1976	S
AUG	26	1976	P
SEPT	6	1976	P
SEPT	24	1976	S
SEPT	25	1976	s
SEPT	30	1976	S
SEPT	30	1976	s
NOV	23	1976	p
DEC	2	1976	p
FEB	11	1977	p
JULY	28	1977	p
SEPT	7	1977	P
SEPT	7	1977	M
SEPT	10	1977	M
SEPT	17	1977	M
NOV	5	1977	P
NOV	21	1977	s
APR	17	1978	M
APR	24	1978	M
APR	27	1978	P
MAY	4	1978	P
JULY	31	1978	M
AUG	14	1978	M
SEPT	5	1978	P
SEPT	5	1978	P
SEPT	16	1978	P
OCT	2	1978	M
NOV	23	1978	M
NOV	25	1978	P
FEB	19	1979	M
APR	9	1979	P
APR	12	1979	P
•85*
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
APR	12	1979	M
MAY	3	1979	P
MAY	7	1979	P
MAY	8	1979	P
JUN	21	1979	P
AUG	18	1979	P
AUG	23	1979	P
APR	22	1980	P
MAY	20	1980	M
JUN	18	1980	P
JUN	21	1980	P
JUN	21	1980	P
JULY	10	1980	P
OCT	2	1980	P
OCT	6	1980	P
OCT	11	1980	P
OCT	17	1980	P
OCT	22	1980	P
OCT	22	1980	P
OCT	23	1980	P
OCT	23	1980	P
OCT	23	1980	P
OCT	27	1980	P
OCT	27	1980	P
OCT	30	1980	P
AUG	10	1981	P
AUG	10	1981	P
AUG	10	1981	P
AUG	10	1981	P
AUG	10	1981	P
AUG	17	1981	M
AUG	17	1981	P
AUG	17	1981	P
AUG	24	1981	P
DEC	11	1981	P
86
APR	4 1983
JUNE	6 1983
^^^^cj>cncoo>cx)Cr)CT>cr>o>o>crtcricricncncntncricricn-p».-^-f^-c^-p^-Ci.-^-P^-Px-f^cc
wN>-^ocDoo'sJO)oi-^coK)-^ocDoo^ia)yi4i-wro-iococo'sia)ai^wM-<o(D

> > > > ^ ^ ^ "O "O ~D ~0 > > >
20 20 20 :o 3o ?□ ?o
S-Sr-^r-Sr-S-E-COGOGoC^
ZZZZZZ-OTJ-D-a
cCCCC
o
-<-<-<
m
m m m m m m
555
m
cn
.		~p-	-P*.	28	28 28		CO	CO	CO	31	CO	24	20	20	20	20	CO	CD	CD	CD	28	28	14	~vj	"■4	"4	~-4	-sj	CO	31	oo	CO
	L	.		l_	,	,	_. ltL	.	■	.	■	■	.	■	■		L		k	.		k	■	■		L				L		L		1.		t		v		t		k		^		^		L		L
1 CO	CO	CO	CD	CO	CO CO		CO	CO	CO	CO	CO	CD	CO	CD	CD	CD	CD	CD	CO	co	CO	CO	CD	CD	CO	co	CD	CD	CO co		CD	CO
1 CO	CO	oo	oo	OO	oo	oo	CD	oo	oo	oo	oo	CD	CD	CD	CD	CD	oo	oo	oo	CD	oo	CO	GO	oo	CO	CD	CO	CO	oo	CD	OO	oo
1 CO	CO	CO	CO	CO	CO	CO	co	CO	CO	CO	CO	CO	ro	ho	ho	ho	ho ho		ho	ho	ho	hO	ro	ro	ho	ro	ho	ro	ro	ro	ro	ro
T)_O-0"O“O‘U-O"O"O“O^“O“D_O-O^S^^^"O-OTJTJ“O“O"O"O-0_O"O_O-OT3'T0
174
175
176
177
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
JUNE	6	1983	P
JUNE	6	1983	P
JUNE	6	1983	P
JUNE	6	1983	P
JUNE	6	1983	P
SEPT	12	1983	M
SEPT	12	1983	M
OCT	11	1983	P
OCT	11	1983	P
OCT	31	1983	P
OCT	31	1983	P
DEC	13	1983	M
FEB	27	1984	M
MAR	20	1984	P
MAR	20	1984	P
MAR	20	1984	M
MAR	20	1984	P
MAR	20	1984	P
MAR	20	1984	P
MAR	20	1984	P
MAR	26	1984	P
MAR	26	1984	P
MAR	26	1984	P
MAR	26	1984	P
MAR	26	1984	P
MAY	28	1984	P
MAY	28	1984	P
MAY	28	1984	M
JUNE	4	1984	P
JUNE	4	1984	P
JUNE	4	1984	P
JUNE	4	1984	P
JUNE	4	1984	P
JUNE	18	1984	P
JUNE	18	1984	P
•88
2'05
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
213
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
JUNE	4	1984	P
JUNE	4	1984	P
JUNE	18	1984	P
JUNE	18	1984	P
JUNE	18	1984	P
JUNE	18	1984	P
NOV	4	1985	M
NOV	4	1985	M
MAY	5	1986	M
OCT	20	1987	M
MAR	1	1988	M
APR	4	1988	M
MAY	24	1988	M
MAY	25	1988	M
AUG	2	1988	P
AUG	2	1988	M
AUG	2	1988	P
AUG	2	1988	P
AUG	2	1988	P
AUG	15	1988	P
AUG	15	1988	P
AUG	15	1988	P
AUG	15	1988	P
AUG	15	1988	P
AUG	15	1988	P
OCT	3	1988	M
NOV	14	1988	M
NOV	27	1989	M
JUNE	11	1990	P
JUNE	11	1990	P
JUNE	11	1990	P
JUNE	20	1990	P
NOV	12	1990	M
MAY	19	1992	M
APR	1	1993	M
89
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
254
MAR	7	1994	P
MAR	16	1994	P
MAR	28	1994	P
APR	10	1994	P
APR	18	1994	P
APR	18	1994	P
APR	8	1994	P
APR	18	1994	P
APR	18	1994	P
APR	18	1994	P
APR	18	1994	P
APR	18	1994	P
JUN	5	1992	M
MAY	2	1994	P
MAY	2	1994	P
90