AGREEMENT
. between
CONNORS DRILLING LTD.
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 7266
Effective:	January 1,	1996 to
December 31, 1997
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
ArtlcIe
Article
Article
Article
Article
INDEX
Definition and. Recognition.....................
Term of Agreement...............................
Management.....................................
No Discrimination...............................
Shifts and Working Hours........................
Overtime.......................................
‘Safety Devices..................................
Statutory Holidays..............................
Grievance & Arbitration Procedure...............
Group. Insurance PI an
Leave of Absence for Union Business.
Annual Vacation. . *.«*«*«*«*«*«*«*,*«*«*«*«*«* Bulletin Boards. ..	•
Union Security..................................
Union Membership........................• .	.	.
Townslte Northern Allowance...............•«*«*«*
Promotions, Transfers, Lay-Offs & Rehiring . .
This Agreement m 3 d e this 9 day of April,
1996 .
Between
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA; LOCAL 7288 Yel lowknife, In the Northwest Territories, Canada (hereinafter called "the Union")
party of the first part
and
CONNORS DRILLING LTD.
(hereinafter called "the Company”)
party of the second part
WHEREAS I t is the desi re of the Company and the Union to promote and maintain harmonious industrial relations between the Company and its employees.
Now, therefore, th i s agreement witnesses that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 ~ DEFINITION AND RECOGNITION
The company agrees to recognl ze and bargain with the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency for those emp loyees of the Company in the Northwest Territories working as diamond drll I runners, diamond drill helpers, excluding shop employees, camp staff, office staff, foremen and persons above the rank of foreman. The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agency for the said emp loyees with respect to rates of pay, hours of work and other condl tions of employment.
2 -
ARTICLE 2 ~ TERM OF AGREEMENT
2.01	! This Agreement shall remain in” effect for
twenty- four (24) months from its effective Pa*ei—thg—Ls±_jday of January 1996 to December 31 , 1997.	----------------------------
2.02	E • ther party may, within a per lod of t h r e e 13) months lmm ed lately preceding December 31,
1997 , by notice in writing, require the other party to commence col I active bargaining.
ARTICLE 3	MANAGEMENT
The Union recogn I zes the right of the Company to operate and manage Its business in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities, and to make and vary from time to t i m e , rules and regulations to be observed by emp I oyees, providing the rules and regulations are not in conflict with the prov is 1 ons of the agreement.
Nothingjn thlsAgreement shall obllgethe Company continue to. carry on operations which it may from time to time decide to discontinue, the Company to notify the Union within twenty-four (24) hours of Its receiving notice of cancellation or discontinuance of any underground operation.
The Company reserves the right to hire, dtsctpl Ine, demote or d Ischarge employees for proper cause.
The selection of the working bosses and al I other supervisory employees shall be entirely a matter for the decision of the Company.'
The Company wl I I furnish monthly to the Union a list showing new hires (Including home addresses), transfers, promotions, demotions, layoffs, recall s a n d terminationso emp ioyment during the prev lous month and the effective dates. Copies of these lists will be forwarded to the Union by thd 15th day of the following month.
ARTICLE 4	DISCRIMINATION
4.00	The company and the Union agree that there
shall be no I ntl m idat I on o r discrimination because of membership or non-membership In the Union, or because of race, creed, colour, nat I onal o r i g i n or pol 1 tl cal bal 1 at s .
3.00
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3
ARTICLE 5 - SHIFTS AND WORKING HOURS
5.00	Hours of Work
The’ oper at I ons of the Company shal I be deemed to fail into two (2)categories, namely Underground and Surface operations.
Underground:	in al I underground operations,
eight C 8 ) hours work from collar to collar shal I constitute., a day's working shift.
Surface:	in al I surface operations, eight (8)
hours ‘work at the drill site shall constitute a day’s working shift.
5.01	Four Hours’ Pay
.	Any employee who reports for work on his
regul ar sh i ft and was not told in advance not to report will be guaranteed four (4) hour’s pay at his regular hourly rate.
Al so, an employee who commences work and is laid-off before completing four (4) hour's work shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at his basic hourly rate.
5.02	Temporary Change of Occupation
An employee shall not refuse to perform work which is outside his classification, but for any such work, he shall be paid a higher rate of pay if the work he performs is of a higher classification than his norma) work and shal I not, in any event, be paid a lower hourly rate than his standard classification.
5.03	Shift PIffar anti a I
A premium at f I f ty ( 50 ) c e n t s per hour shall be pa I d to all employees who are working a shi ft other than the normal day shi ft.
For the purpose of applying this premium rate, the express ion "regul ar day sh I ft" shal I have the meaning attributed to it in accordance with the Company’s present practice.
ARTICLE 6 6.00
6.01
6.02
^ 4
The Company wl l I pay the above mentioned shift premium as a separate al lowance based on the hours worked for those shifts other than the normal day shift.
OVERTIME
In al I underground operations, al I work performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any one, twenty-four (24) hour period or forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) times the basic rate.
In al I surface operations, all work performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day or forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) times the basic rate (except when an employee works over eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period due to regular change of shIfts).
(a)	One and one-half (1 1/2) times the
basic rate will be paid for all Work performed on a Saturday or Sunday regardless of the hours worked or days worked previous to Saturday or Sunday, if such days are scheduled overtime days.
In the case of an emp ioyee kept underground after the expiration of the regular shift due to causes over which he has no control, such time shall be considered as hours worked (stra Ight t i me) if the period exceeds thirty (30) minutes provided that such time shall not be cons! derad as time worked if the cause Is beyond the control of the Company.
ARTICLE 7 -7.00
ARTICLE 8
a.00
- 5 -
SAFETY DEV I CES
Gogglesand any other safety equipment considered necessary by the company to protect employees from Injury shal I be suppl fed by the Company. The Company to pay- one-hal f (1/2) the Cost of underground boots, hard hats and g I oves for underground workers. The Company agrees to pay the cost of slickers for those’ emp I oyees work i ng underground who require slickers, prov id Ing that when a new set of slickers is required, the employee may be required to produce the set which Is being discarded. Second or later issues will not be suppl hed otherwise than through reasonable wear and tear. The Company to supply at no cost to the emp loyee, degree rut e, crescent wrench and 9/16 wrench. Old or worn tools to be turned in for replacement.
Prov-1 de, that where solutions are used, the Company wi I I furnish slicker pants and rubber gloves, If these are required in the discretion of the foreman.
The Company and the emp I oyees shal I co-operate in matters pertaining to safety.
STATUTORY HOL I DAYS
Work Performed on a Statutory Holiday
Shou I d an emp loyee be required to work on any of the following days, namely:
New year's Day Good Fr I day Victoria Day
Miner’s Day (2nd Monday in June)
Dom in ion Day
First Monday tn August
Labour Day
Thanksg1vIng Day
Remembrance Day
Chr I stmas Day
Boxing Day
- 6 -
he shall be paid for work so performed at the rate of one and one-half (U/2) times his appl (cable hourly rate.
In ‘addition to the above-named holidays, each employee shall be entitled to two (2) floating statutory ho I (days during each calendar year that he is in the Company's employ, 'Which shal I be taken at a time which (s su I tab I e to both the Company and the employee. To quai I fy for the floating statutory holidays, an employee must have at least sixty (60) days service with the Company immediately prior to the holiday, in the event that an employee has appl led for a floating statutory holiday at least thirty (30)days prior to the end of the calendar. year and no mutually suitable date has been estabI(shed before the end of the year, he shal I receive a day’s pay In lieu thereof.
8.01	Qualification for Statutory Ho I 1 day (not
worked )
Except as hereinafter provided, an employee who does not work on one (1 ) of the statutory hoi (days referred to above, shall be paid his applicable hourly rate for eight (8) hours for the day;
(a)	while on vacation
(b)	on approved leave of absence, including leave on Union business;
(c)	wh i le absent through sickness or accident prov ided that the employee has a Doctor’s certificate to that effect, and
(c) death In the immediate family (immediate family shall mean: spouse, f a+her mother , son and daughter).
- 7 -
8.02	Anemployee shall not be paid for the
statutory holiday in Section 8.01 If he is absent from work on his last regularly scheduled shift before, or his first regularly scheduled shift after such holiday, or if he has been assigned or scheduled to work and does not work on such ho I (day.
8.03	Anemployee who quallf I es for both the
statutory hoi Iday pay (expressed In Sections 8.01 and 8.02) and for pay for performing work on a statutory holiday, shall be entitled to a total of two and one half (2 1/2) times his applicable rate of pay for eight (8) hours of the day. VIZ:	Eight (8) hours straight time
pay for qual i fled statutory holiday plus one and one-half (1 1/2) times his applicable rate actual 1 y worked on the statutory hoi lday but works the statutory hoi lday, he shal I then be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) times his hourly rate of pay only.
ARTICLE 9 ~ GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
Complaint
Employees may discuss any complaint with shift bosses or foremen so that it may be settl ed as quickly as possible. However, should any difference ar ise between the Company and the Union or any employee or employees concerning the interpretation or violation of this Agreement, the parties shall endeavour to settle such differences without undue delay in the .fol lowing manner;
Grievance - Stage One
The employee concerned, tn person and if he desires, w I +h his shop steward In attendance, shall try to settle the dl f fsrance with his immediate boss. If the emp loyee ha reasonable access to a steward, the grievance shal I ‘be taken up with the immediate boss, not more than five (5) days after It has arisen, but if there Isno steward reasonably available to the employee, then the grievance shall be raised at the first reasonabj e opportunIty.
9.00
9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04
Grievance — Stage Two
The Union or the employee concerned, accompanied by his steward, if an employee desires, may submit the dispute to the Tel lowknife Manager of the Company and the submission and the decision at this Stage will be In writing.
Failing satisfactory settlement of the grievance within five (5) days, the matter may be referred .to arbitration within + wen+y-one(21 ) ad d i tiona I days as herein prov i d.ed .
Difference between Company and Union
if a difference arises between the Union and the Company concerning the interpretation or al 1 eg ed v i o I a t i o n of this agreement or the discharge of an employee, then the matter may be taken up between the union and the management of the company at Stage Two.
Fal 1 ing sati sfac+ory agreement, either party may notify the’ other in writing within twenty-one (21 > days that It desires to refer the matter to arbitration and an arbitrator shal I then be selected as set forth below and the difference shal I be submitted In writing to the Arbitrator and the Arbitrator’s decision shall be confined to determining the issues therein set out and shall be final and binding upon the parties.
Stage three — Procedure for Settling Disputes
Falling a satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days after the dispute was submitted under Stage Two, the Union may, upon giving seven (7) days notice in writing to the. company of their intention, refer the dlsputeto arbitration'. Within ten- (10) days following receipt of such notice, the Company and the Union will select one Arbitrator from the following panel of arbitrators:
1.	Gordon Carter
2.	G. Hawko
9 -
The selection of the Arbitrator shall commence ; wT-hh the next name on the panel" fol.l-owlng.,the name ‘of the Arb itrator who last' served the parties Inthe previous arbitration. If an Arbitrator is unable to serve, then the next Arbitrator on the panel shall be selected, etc., until an Arbitrator indicates his availabilityto act. if an Arbi tr ator on the panel is permanently unable to serve, then the parties shall jointly select a replacement. If the parties cannot mutually agree upon an Arbitrator within ten (10)days, the appointment shal I be made by the Minister of Labour.of Canada upon request of either party.
The decision of the Arbitrator is respect of an Interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, shall be final and binding upon the parties, but in no event shal I the Arbitrator have the power to alter, modify or amend this agreement In any respect. The parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the arb i trator.
The arbitrator shal I hear and determine the difference or al legation and shall, wlthlna maximum of thirty (30) days following arbitration, render his decision.
A written record of the grievance presented at Stage Two and the decision of that Stage will be presented to the Arbitrator,. and the Arbitrator’s decision shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
When making his decision, the ‘Arbitrator shall state whether the decision is ‘retroactive and effective date thereof, but the decision shall not be made retroactive to a time prior to the date of thi s agreement and there shal I be no award of costs ;of arbitration to either party.
Stewards
-10-
9.05
(a)	Stewards chosen by the Union must be employees of the Company. The duties of ths stewards shall be to receive, investigate and endeavour to settle grievances as outlined In this Article.
(b)	There sh a. I I be a grievance committee consisting of not more than five (5) stewards.
(c)	The Union’ agrees to no+l fy the Company In Writing of the names of the stewards and the names of the Grievance Committee, and of any changes which may be made from time to time. The Company shal I not be required to recogntze the stewards of the grievance committee until it ‘has been notified in writing by the Union, the names of the persons se I acted.
(d)	Authorized time spent In Investigating and settling disputes by employees delegated by stewards shal I be considered as time worked, and payment shal I be on the basis of straight time, under no condition shall overtime be paid. The time to be paid for shall be limited to five (5) hours per month.
GROUP INSURANCE PLAN
- 11 -
ARTICLE 10 10.00
10.01
During the life of this agreement, the Company will maintain a sickness and acc I dent po I Icy providing for a $60,000 death benefit including a double indemnity provision for n o n - o c c u p a t i o n a I accidental death. Weekly Indemnl+yfor a twenty-six (26) week period for injuries or sickness (arising from n o n - o c c u p a t i o n a l accidents) will be paid In accordance with the following schedule. .
January 1 , 1996 - $450.00 per week
payable from the first day for n o n-o c c u p a t i o n a I accident, payable from the fi fth (5th) day for non-hospital Ized sickness and payab I e from the first day 1 f admitted to the hospital for sickness.
Employees must have worked thirty (30) shifts before he qual 1 f 1 es for coverage,
The cost of these benefits shal I be paid 100£ by the Company.
Dental PI an
The Company wt I I prov ide, at Company expense Plan "A" Dental Plan which will provide for the payment of 1 0 0 2 o f the basic services (ie., extractions, fillings, cleaning, fluoride, x-rays, etc.) for emp loyaas and their dependents.
The Company wi I I prov I de on a 50% cost share basic Plan "B" Dental Plan.
ARTICLE 11 ~ LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS
11.00	Any employee selacted as 8 delegate or
representative of the Union, necessitating leave of absence, upon proper application to the Company, shai 1 be granted such leave of absence without pay, provided it does not exceed a per lod of one (1 )- year.
1 1 .01
11 .02 11.03
11 .04
ARTICLE
Time spent as a delegate or representative of the Union shall not in any way jeopardize his seniority, but shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining vacation.
The Company shal I not be required to grant the privilege ;under this Article to more than one (1) person at the same time.
Section 11.01 and 11.02 shall not apply to delegates actually attending a labour convention, ‘labour arbitrations, labour contract negotiations or grievance matters set ‘forth in this agreement.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article to the contrary, the Company shal l not be ob I iged to grant leave of absence to more than one (1 ) emp loyee during any cai endar year for the purpose of attending a labour convention.
12 - WAGES	■
The scale of wages in effect during the life of this Agreement for Underground and Surface Drillers shall be as follows:	.
January 1 , 1996	— Underground & Surface
Driller -$18.80 per hour Helper -$16.25 per hour
ARTICLE
13.00
13.01
13.02
13.03
13.04
13
13 - ANNUAL VACATION
The vacation year will be from January 1st through December 31st of each year, inclusive. El igibil I ty for vacation time off and for pay will be determined by the employee’s continuous service with the Company and his anniversary (hire) date.
Any emp loyee on the payrol I during the current vacation year, and who has the length of continuous service specified in the table below, shal I be entitled to the corresponding vacation with pay:
Up to 12 months serv ice
12 months but less than IB
months service -
18 months but less than 24
months service -
24 months to 10 years service
10 years & over service
1	week	- 5%
2	weeks	- 6%
3	weeks	- 1%
3	weeks	- 856
4	weeks	- 1056
Vacation pay wt I I be calculated up to, the day he leaves on vacation, and said pay wlllbe based on total earnings. Vacation pay earned but not pa id at the end of the vacation year will be paid to the employee at the end of the vacation year (December ).
The Company will be the final judge of vacation time, but vacations wI I I be granted as closely as practicab I e to t h e time requested by the employee. When requested by the employee, in writing and when practicable, one (1 ) week extra vacation w ( I I be granted without pay, provided it Is-taken along with his regular approved vacation,. Vacations or the on-regular vacations and the one (1) week extra vacation Is not accumulative.
Al I employees with one (1 ) year service or more shall be entitled to a premium of ten dollars ($1&.00)per day in accordance with his vacation schedule, payable once a year.
1 4 -
ARTICLE 14 - BULLET! N BOARDS
14.00	At the request of the Union, the Company wl I I
provide a bulletin board in the Company office at Yellowknife for the posting of notices of Union meetings, social affairs and other Union notices of a non-controversia I nature.
ARTICLE 15 - UN I ON SECUR I TY
15.00
15.01
15.02
15.03
ARTICLE
16.00
The Company shall, during the term of the agreement, honor a written request by an emp loyee for the deduction and remittance of dues, fees and assessments (excluding fines), payab'letothaUnion if the order is substantially in the form set out in Schedule “A” hereto and is signed by the employee.
The Company shall remit to the Union monthly, the sums so deducted together with a written statement showing the names of the employees from who the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
The Company shal I not be obi Iged to deduct and remit the said sums, unless it has on hand, wages which would otherwise be paid to the employee.	.
AS a condition of employment, the Company shall deduct from ail present and future employees, union dues as set, by the United Stee 1 workers of America, and communicated to the Company in the form set out in Schedule BAM her eto.
UN ION MEMBERSHIP
All present employees and all employees hired
after the effective date of th I s a g r e e m e n t, or thirty (30) ‘days after their hire, whichever Is later, shall be required, as a condition of employment, to become and remain members of the Un Ion through December 31,1997.
15 -
16.01	Where the Union requests action by the Company
in respect to an employee who has failed to maintain membership in the Union in good standing, the Union shall furnish to the Company written proof of such failure to maintain membership.
ARTICLE 17 - TOWNS I TE NORTHERN ALLOWANCE
17.00	For an employee who maintains a residence In
the Yel lowknife area, the fol lowing al lowance will be paid:
Effective January 1 , 1996 the Northern living allowance wi I I be:
$35.00 ‘per sh I ft worked for marr led emp loyees $30.00 per shift worked for single employees
ARTICLE 18 - TRANSPORTAT 1 ON
The Company has the right to deduct transportation expenses from an employees payroll if that employee does not fullftll his contract duration. Contract duration w 1 I I be either project completion or 21 shifts for one way Costs and 42 s h i f t s for return costs. Five shifts will. be considered adequate notice of an employees desire to leave a project.
ARTICLE 19 - PROMOTIONS. TRANSFERS. LAY-OFFS AND REHIRING
19.00	The Company recognizes the principal of
seniority in promotions, transfers, lay-offs and rehlr ing and in these matters’, the fol lowing factors shal I govern:
(a)	The length of continuous service with the Company
(b)	Ability, knowledge, dependability,
training, ski li and efficiency of the emp loyee to do the work.
Where a bona fide Judgement of the Company, factor (b)isto al I Intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, seniority shal I govern.
- 16 -
The Company recogn I zes date of hire with predecessor Company’s (sen tor I ty) for the purpose of calculating vacations and transportation al lowance.
19*01	An employee shall lose all seniority if he:
(a)	voluntarily quits;
(b)	IV justlf1abIy discharged.
19.02	An employee is considered a probationary
emp l oyee for the first forty-five (45) days of his employment and shat I not have seniority rights under thi s agreement and may be discharged by the Company at Its discretion during that period. Notwlthstandlngthe above, If the Company does discharge an employee during this probate period, the employee may, If he desires, be represented by the Union In presenting his case to the Company. If the Company conflrmsthe discharge of the probationary employee,, it shal I not be a matter for grievance under this Agreement.
19.03	If the Company sees fit to contl nua the
employment of a probationary employee after the end of forty-five (45) days of service, his name shall be placed on the seniority list 88 of the beginning of such, forty-five (45) days conti nuous serv Ice.
19.04	The Company expressly reserves the right to
employ technically trained men and students In reasonable ‘numbers from timeto time and to transfer and promote them as the Company may see f I+. , providing that no employee shall be
I al d oft or discharged to make ace. for a student, or In the case of employees al ready laid off, refuse rehire.
- 17 -
19.05	A person originally rehired by the Company to
exercise a special trade or skill or to. participate In a particular assignment of work, may be discharged when his employment at such special trade, skill or particular assignment comes, to an end, notwithstanding anything in this agreement to the contrary.
19.06	Th i s agreement shal I not depr ive the Company
of the right to select its employees or to discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
19.07	When pr act I cab I e, having regard to the time
when a job is to be fi I led, the Company will post Jobs available so that employees may have the opportunity of applying for the Job and a Copy of the posting will be sent to the Union.
19.08	For the sake of cl ar I +Y , it is understood that
the Company does not recogn ire departmental seniority.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Un Ion- set the Ir hands thi s
Of April 9, 1996.
ON BEHALF OF CONNORS DRILLING LTD.
ON BEHALF OF
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMER ICA LOCAL 72B8. thereof ,, In Yel lowknife, In the Northwest Territories, Canada.
R.W. ThoKyasoj General Manager
Staf£ Representative
FEB. 7/2000
Ron Symth - 604-873-3905
re: Connors Drilling - process of bargaining, not a lot is going on. ’97 is latest agt.
Diana Foley