1990-1992
COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
between
ssfio
Canada inc.
SIFTO CANADA INC. GODERICH, ONTARIO Coderich, Ontario
and
ENERGY AND CHEMICAL WORKERS' UNION LOCAL No. 16
00241(04)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
NUMBER
PAGE
NUMBER
PURPOSE
SCOPE
2.01 Exclusions and Scope............ 1
2.02	Probationary Employees...... 2
S	COMPANY RIGHTS
4	UNION RECOGNITION
4.01	Union Recognition...................... 3
4.02	Membership In The Union................ 4
4.03	Union Office........................... 4
5	CHECK-OFF
5.01	Union Dues ............................ 4
5.02	Deduction of Union Dues................ 4
5.03	Union Dues Remission................... 4
6	SENIORITY
6.01	Definition ............................ 5
6.02	Promotion, Demotion, Transfer,
Lay-Off and Recall .................. 5
6.03	Procedure For Lay-Off.................. 5
6.04	Loss cf Seniority, Notice	of Recall . .	6
6.05	Filling Job Vacancies.................. 8
6.06	Continuation of Seniority	While Off . .	8
6.07	Departments............................ 9
6.08	Status While on Lay-Off............... 10
6.09	Posting Seniority List................ 10
7	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
7.01	Without Pay .......................... 10
7.02	Illness, Accident or On W.C.B..........10
7.03	Union Business........................ 10
I
ARTICLE
NUMBER
PAGE
NUMBER
10
11
13
13
7.04	National Union Business ........ 10
7.0C	Conciliation or Arbitration	.... 11
7.06	With Vacations.................. 11
7.07	Extensions ..................... 11
COMMITTEES
8.01	Negotiating Committee .......... 11
8.02	Grievance Committee............. 12
8.03	Committee Members .............. 13
8.04	Pay For Committee Work.......... 13
8.05	Labour Management Committee ... 13
8.06	Joint Health & Safety Committee . . 14
8.07	Joint Miner Training Committee .... 14
8.08	Joint Apprenticeship and Trades
Training Committee ........... 15
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	Grievance Procedure ............ 15
9.02	Policy Grievance................ 16
9.03	Permission To Leave Work	Site... 17
9.04	Definition cf Time Limits ...... 17
9.05	Disciplinary Record ............ 17
ARBITRATION
10.01	Selection of An Arbitrator	.... 17
10.02	Selection of Arbitrator Restriction . . 18
10.03	Expenses of Arbitrator & Witnesses . 18
10.04	Sole Arbitrator Provision.........18
10.05	Binding Effect of the Arbitrator .... 18
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
......................................19
MAINTENANCE & PROTECTION DURING SUSPENSION OF WORK
...................................... 19
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
13.01	Definition of Work Week ......... 20
13.02	Definition of Shifts ............ 20
II
ARTICLE	PAGE
NUMBER	NUMBER
13.03	Lunch Periods ..................20
13.04	Overtime Premiums............... 20
13.05	Premium for Change of Shift......22
Overtime Outside of Regular
Work Week .................... 22
Exchange of Shift .............. 22
13.06	Request of Overtime Work ......22
13.07	Distribution of Overtime ...... 23
13.08	Conditions For Temporary
Department Transfers ......... 24
13.09	Overtime Meal Allowance........ 24
13.10	Starting and Quitting Times ... 24
13.11	Pay for Being Trapped in Mine..25
13.12	Failure to Receive Notice Not to
Report to Work ................. 25
13.13	Callouts and Mine Start-Ups.... 26
13.14	No Pyramiding of Overtime
Premiums ..................... 26
13.15	Article Not a Guarantee of
Hours of Work ................ 26
13.16	Vessel Loading Time Changes....26
14	RATES OF PAY
14.01	Rates As Set Out In Schedule A .... 27
14.02	Shift Premiums ................. 27
14.03	Underground Premium ............ 27
14.04	Saturday Premium and
Sunday Premium ............... 27
14.05	No Pyramiding of Premiums........28
14.06	Rate and Duration of Company
Initiated Temporary Transfers .... 28
14.07	Rates for New Established Jobs .... 28
14.08	Shaft Premiums.................. 29
15	MINE HOLIDAYS
15.01	Mine Holidays and Christmas Pay . . 29
15.02	Entitlement to Holiday Pay ......30
15.03	Pay €or Working on a Holiday....30
15.04	Holidays Falling During Vacation ... 31
ill
Aimer H	PAGE
NUMBER	NUMBER.
15.05	Floating Holidays	31
15 06	Restriction of Work on
Certain Holidays ................. 31
15.07	Pav for Working Christmas or
New Years Eve	32
15.08	Fioliday Pay While OiF	lor
Sickness or Accident	32
16	VACATIONS WITH PAY
16 01	Definition of Vacation Year & Week 32
16.02	Entitlement and Pay With Hess
Than 1 Year	32
16.03	Entitlement and Pay With More
Than 1 Year	32
16.04	Entitlement and Pay With More
Than 5 Years	32
16.05	Entitlement and Pav With More
Than 10 Years	32
16.06	Entitlement and Pay With More
Than 20 Years ................. 32
16.07	Entitlement and Pay With More
Than 25 Years ................. 33
16.08	Vacation Selection Preference....33
16.09	Extending Vacation Jan.-March
By Leave of Absence............ 33
16.10	Vacation Pay When Leaving
the Company.................... 33
16.11	Supplementary Vacation ...........33
16.12	Weekly Indemnity and Workers’
Compensation .................. 34
16.1.3	Weekly Indemnity and Workers’
Comp. Effect on Vacation Pay .... 34
17	OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH ANI) SAFETY
17.01 Complying With Legislation ...... 34
17.02	Providing Safe Working Conditions , 35
17.03	Co-operation for Health and Safety . . 34
17.04	Terms cf Reference for Health
and Safety Committee ........... 35
IV
ARTICLE	PAGE
NUMBER	NUMBER
17.05	Investigation of Accidents............37
17.06	Conducting Health and Safety Tests	37
17.07	Health and Safety Training .	... 37
17.08	Safety Violation Discipline Witnesses	37
17.09	Health and Safety Environment	...	37
17.10	Letters of Intent Re Health
and Safety..........................38
17.11	Work During Power Failures or
No Communications ..................38
17.12	Safety Footwear Allowance.............38
17.13	Providing and Wearing Safety
Glasses....................... 38
17.14	Coveralls ........................... 38
18
19
GENERAL,
Union Notice Board..............
Bereavement Leave ..............
Jury or Witness Duty............
Leadhands ......................
Definition of the Term Days ....
Reliance on Originally Signed Agreement ....................
GROUP INSURANCE 19.01 BENEFITS
a)	Benefits Provided ...........
b)	Weekly Indemnity.............
c)	Life Insurance...............
d)	Accidental Death and
Dismemberment..............
e)	Retiree Life Insurance......
f)	Major Medical ...............
g)	Semi-Private Hospital Coverage
h)	Long Term Disability.........
i)	Dental Plan .................
j)	Family Eyeglass Plan.........
k)	Cost Sharing For Premiums . .
l)	Effective Date of Coverage and
UIC Rebate ................
18.01
18.02
18.03
18.04
18.05
18.06
39
39
40 40 40
40
41
41
41
42
42
42
43 43 46
48
49
49
V
ARTICLE	PAGE
NUMBER	NUMBER
m)	Continuation of Benefits
on Lay-off................  CO
n)	Continuation of Benefits on
Early Retirement ...........50
30 SIFTO CANADA INDUSTRIAL CONVERSION PLAN (SCICI*)
......................................50
21 PENSION PLAN
......................................50
23 TRAINING
22.01	Miner Training Program......... 51
22.02	Maintenance Training Program . . . . 53
22.03	Recognition of Skills.......... 58
23 DURATION OF AGREEMENT
23.01	Expiry Date and Notice of Renewal ;. 58
23.02	First Meeting for Renewal and
Conditions During Negotiations 58
23.03	When Agreement Becomes Effective 59
61
LETTERS OF' UNDERSTANDING
Letter #1 Optional Life Insurance and
AD&D Coverage.............
Letter #2 Copies of Collective Agreement Letter #3 Roof Bolting Practice . . .
Letter #4 Communications............
Letter #5 Transferring, or Filling of Vacancies Within Group
Maintenance ..........
Letter #6 Leadhands ................
Letter #7 Vacation Scheduling.......
Letter #8 Short Term Mine Shutdown
64
65
66 67
68
69
70 72
VI
ARTICLE	PAGE
NUMBER	NUMBER
Letter #9
Letter #10 Letter #11
Letter #12
Temporary Vacancies & Job
Qualifications...........
Bumping Rights.............
Productivity Improvement /
Related Layoffs..........
Special Events.............
73
79
82
83
SENIORITY LIST
85
NOTE: The above Table cf Contents is for ease cf reference only and shall not be used in any way for assistance in interpreting the main text of the Agreement.
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
SIFTO CANADA INC., it Corporation incorporated (by continuance) under the laws cf Canada and having its Head Office,located at 1136 Matheson Rlvd., Mississauga, Ontario, herein acting with respect only to the Goderich Mine located at Goderich, Ontario, hereinafter referred to as the “Company”.
and
THE ENERG Y AND CHEMICAL WORKERS’ UNION, Local 16, located at Goderich, Ontario, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”.
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE
1.01	The Company and the Union have entered into this Agreement at Goderich, Ontario, for the purpose cf recording terms and conditions cf employment, resulting from collective bargaining which arc io be observed by the parties hereto. It is their desire lo maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to settle all differences in an amicable manner as herein provided, and to work together to achieve the most efficient operation cf the plant and to promote the safety and health <f the employees.
ARTICLE 2 SCOPE
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as bargaining agent of the employees covered by this Agreement.
1
The following classifications cf employees are herein excluded from the bargaining unit:
a)	All office staffincluding executive, managerial, sales, engineering, laboiatoiy, accounting and clerical.
b)	Supervisory employees above and including the rank of foreman:
Under normal conditions these supcrvisoiy employees shall not do work which i s customarily performed by members cf the bat gaming unit. This shall not apply when the supervisory employee is engaged in:
i)	Training employees;
ii)	experimental work;
iii)	work which is required due to emergencies.
c)	All part time and temporary employees who have not completed the cumulative service pursuant to Article 6-6.01. These employees shall be subject to equivalent provisions to those provided by Article 5 Check Off, Article
13	Hours of Work and Overtime and Article
14	Rates cf Pay.
It is understood such above employees shall be released before any regulai employees arc laid off and no new employees will be hired under this section if any regular employee is on lay-off.
d)	Guards to protect the property of the Company.
2.02	Subject to the terms of this Agreement this Agreement shall apply to probationary employees engaged on permanent woik. During the probationary period, it is understood that new employees shall have no seniority rights and, if their employment is totminated during this time, shall have no recourse to the Grievance Procedure.
2
ARTICLE 3 COMPANY RIGHTS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is (he exclusive function and right c£ the Company to:
a)	Operate and manage its business in all respects, except where any right to do so has been specifically restricted by the terms of this Agreement;
b)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
c)	make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, provided such rules and regulations are not inconsistent with this Agreement;
d)	schedule the produotion;
e)	direct the working force, hire, promote, demote, transfer, lay-off because of lack of work, recall, discipline, suspend and discharge for just cause all employees, provided that claims of discriminatory promotions, demotion, or transfer and wrongful or unjust discipline or discharge shall be subject to the grievance procedure herein provided;
f)	incorporate in the mine all manner of technical and process improvements at any time, notwithstanding the fact that such improvements may reduce the labour force required io operate the mine. Such reduction of the labour force shall be in accordance with Article No. 6, Section 6.02.
ARTICLE 4
UNION RECOGNITION
4.01	The Company recognizes the Union, during lire term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, its the exclusive representatives of the employees
3
for the purpose cf collective bargaining with respect lo hours cf work, rates of pay and other conditions of employment, as set forth in this Agreement.
4.02	All employees shall, as a condition of employment, became members of the Union upon completion cf their probationary period, maintaining such membership in good standing foi the duration cf this Agreement.
4.03	The Company agrees to make available to the President and other Union Officials, office space equipped with a desk, chairs, belophone and filing cabinet, located on surface, for the purpose of dealing with complaints or grievances arising out of the administration of the Agreement or individual employee problems arising out cf their employment with the Company.
ARTICLE 5 CHECK-OFF
5.01	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to levy initiation fees and dues.
5.02	Upon receipt of written authorization from the Union, the Company agrees to deduct from the pay of employees covered by this Agreement initiation fees and regular monthly union dues during the term cf this Agreement.
5.03	The Company shall remit to the Union once a month the initiation fees and regular monthly dues deducted together with a written statement of the names cf the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount cf each deduction.
4
ARTICLE 6 SENIORITY
6.01	Seniority shall be determined by an employee’s length cf continuous service in the Company. New employcos shall be considered as probationary, without seniority, during the appropriate mine training period and the first accumulated forty-five (45) days c£ employment following in a twelve (12) month period, and thereafter shall assume full seniority dating from the time they wore employed. After twenty (20) days cf employment, the employee will be given a report oil his work performance.
6.02	In all casos cf promotion, demotion, transfer, layoff and recall, the Company shall give preference to the senior employees, provided the senior employee has the qualifications, the physical capabilities and the ability to perform the job in accordance with Company standards.
6.03	The term postings below is as defined in article 6.05 and for the purposes of this article, labourer positions will be treated in the same manner as postings. (1990)
a)	In the event of a lay-off the following procedure will govern:	(1990)
1) all probationary and temporary employees shall be released first, provided the remaining employees arc qualified to perform the work available in accordance with Article 6.02.
Li) thereafter regular employcos shall be laid off in reverse order cf seniority providing the remaining employees arc qualified to perform the work available.
b)	i) In the case of a posting elimination lasting
five (5) days or less, or a layoff of five (5)
5
days or less, senior employees remaining at work and in accordance with Article No. 6, Section 6.02, shall not exercise their seniority rights nor shall their rates of pay be altered. (1990)
ii)	In the case of a temporary layoff of more than five (5) days, or a temporary elimination of a posting lasting more than five (5) days, the employees displaced shall have the right to exercise seniority in accordance with Letter of Understanding #10. Employees exercising this right shall do so in accordance with Article No. 6, Section 6.02, in which case the lower rate, if applicable shall apply immediately. (1990)
iii)	In the the case of a permanent layoff, or a permanent elimination of a posting, the employees displaced shall have the right to exercise their seniority rights in all jobs on all shifts in all departments, in accordance with Article No. 6, Section 6.02, in which case the lower rate, if applicable shall apply immediately. (1990)
c)	An employee whose equipment is down or whose job is not required for more than thirty (30) consecutive days for reasons other than those contemplated in 6.03 (b), will have the option to exercise his seniority in ail jobs on all shifts in all departments in accordance with Article No. 6, Section 6.02, in which case the lower rate if applicable shall apply immediately. (1990)
6.04	An employee shall cease to have seniority rights and his employee status with the Company shall be terminated for all purposes if he:
a)	Voluntarily leaves the Company;
b)	is discharged for just cause;
ti
e)	retires from Company service;
d)	i) is laid off by the Company and has not
been recalled for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months, in the case of employees with less than seven (7) years of continuous service,
ii) is laid off by the Company and has not been recalled for a period of eighteen (18) consecutive months in the case of employees with seven (7) or more yews cf continuous service but less than ten (10) years cf continuous service.
iii) is laid off by the Company and has not been recalled for a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive months in the case cf employees with ten (10) or more years of continuous service.
e)	i) Fails to notify the Company within three
(3) calendar days following receipt of notice to return, by registered mail sent to the employee's last place cf address on record with the Company, of his intention to roturn to work following a lay-off, or
NOTE: The time limit allowed lor the receipt of such notice shall be four (4) calendar clays after the mailing date.
ii) Fails ,to report for work following a layoff, within ten (10) calendar (.lays alter notice to return to work has been sent by registered mail, lo the employee’s last place cf address on record with the Company.
NOTE It is the responsibility cf the employee on lay-off to notify the Company of the address where he can be reached in the event of recall.
7
f') is absent for more than three (3) consecutive working days without just cause in the opinion cf the Company, except in the case c£ illness or accident provided the Company is notified cf such illness or accident during the above three (3) day period. The Company may require such illness or accident to be confirmed by a dootor’s certificate. Notwithstanding the words “in the opinion of the Company” an Arbitration Board may render a decision based upon the merits of the issue in dispute.
g) he does not report for work upon the expiration cf an authorized leave c£ absence, unless excused for reasonable cause.
6.05	Except as specified in Schedule A, Note 4, permanent job vacancies above the Labour Rate shall be posted on the Notice Board foi five (5) calendar days in order to give all employees who are interested an opportunity to bid for the job. The posting will include a statement indicating the shift on which the vacancy or position is currently assigned. The Company reserves the right to decide if and when a vacancy is to be filled even after it has been posted and a successful candidate selected as well as to reassign the employee to another shift if required in the future. Experience gained by an employee selected to do the job on an interim basis pending final selection of an applicant shall not be consideied in the selection of an applicant. (1990)
6.06	a) Notwithstanding Article 7.02, an employee
absent due to illness or accident shall accumulate and retain seniority rights and employee status with the Company while on Weekly Indemnity, Long Term Disability, or Workers’ Compensation or during the following periods cf absence whichever is greater: (1988)
i) employees with less than one year’s service during an absence equal to their length of service;
8
ii)	employees with one year or more service but less than five (5) years, during an absence of up to twelve (12) consecutive months;
iii)	employees with five (5) or more years cf service but less than ton (10) years, during an absence cf up to eighteen (18) consecutive months;
iv)	employees with ten (10) or more years of service but less than fifteen (15) years, during an absence cf up to twenty-four (24) consectuive months;
v)	employees with fifteen (15) or more years cf service but less than twenty (20) years, during an absence of up to thirty (30) consecutive months;
vi)	employees with twenty (20) or more years cf service during an absence cf up to thirty-six (36) consecutive months.
b)	An employee shall retain seniority rights and employee status with the Company for a leave of absence for any reason other than those named in (a) for up to three (3) months, except: as provided for in Article 7.03 and 7.04. (1988)
NOTE: Employees who have exceeded the time limits in this article shall lose their seniority rights and their status as an employee cf the Company shall terminate.
6.07	For the purpose cf this article, the mine shall be
divided into the following departments:
—	underground
—	milling, including shipping: maintenance
■— hoisting
9
6.08	An employee on lay-off shall have no status under this Agreement, except as specifically provided herein.
6.09	A seniority list shall he made up by the Company every six (6) months. One (l)copy shall be posted on the Notioe Board and one (1) copy shall be supplied to the Union. Any error in the said list shall be taken up with the Company within one (1) week after the list has been posted.
The Company agrees a seniority list will be included in the Collective Agreement booklets as an appendix. It will have the following note attached lo the bottom of the seniority list: “this list is fir quick informal reference and is not an official seniority list.”
ARTICLE 7 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
7.01	All leaves of absence shall be without pay, exccp-t as noted in Article 15.07.
7.02	Employees absent due lo sickness or accident or on Workers’ Compensation shall bo automatically considered to be on leave of absence, provided that the Company may require such sickness or accident to be confirmed by a doctor’s certificate.
7.03	Employees of the Company, not exceeding two (2) in number, elected by the Union as representatives to District, Provincial or National functions shall, subject to production requirements be granted reasonable leave cf absence to attend such functions, provided the Company received adequate notice of requested absence. The employees granted such a leave of absence shall accumulate seniority for the duration cf said leave.
7.04	The Company, on application from the Union reasonably in advance, shall grant leave of absence not to exceed six (6) months lo an emit)
ployec who may be selected as a representative cf the National Union or to fill an office with the District, the Ontario Federation cf Labour, or the Canadian Labour Congress. This leave cf absence may be extended an additional six (6) months by agreement of the parties. The employee granted such a leave cf absence shall accumulate seniority for the duration cf said leave. The employee will not be entitled to any benefits under this Agreement except that the Group Insurance coverage will bo maintained providing the employee pays the full cost.
7.05	The Company shall grant leave of absence to those employees required to attend any conciliation or arbitration proceedings. It is agreed that the number cf such employcos shall be kept to a minimum so as not to affect the efficient operation cf the mine.
7.06	An employee may be granted up to two (2) weeks leave of absence consecutive with his vacation and if the Company grants such leave of absence, the employee shall accumulate seniority during such loave.
7.07	A leave cf absence may be extended by the Company for justifiable reasons.
ARTICLE 8 COMMITTEES
8.01	NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
The Company agrees that a Negotiating Committee, not to exceed five (5) employees m number, selected by the Union, shall be recognized as the authorized negotiating repiesentative cf the Union. The Negotiating Committee will be represented as follows: one from shipping, one from maintenance, two from mining, the Chief Steward. The Company shall deal with the said Committee
11
with respect to proposals for modifications of the Agreement as outlined in Article 23. An accredited official cf the Union may participate in any such negotiations.
The Union shall supply the Company in writing the names of the employees constituting the Negotiating Committoe and shall inform the Company two (2) days prior to any meeting of any changes in the personnel cf the said committee.
Meetings between the Company and the Negotiating Committee shall be held at times affording the least loss cf time to the Company and to the members of the Committee. It is understood that payment to the members of the committee foi regular time lost in connection with the re-negotiation cf this Agreement will be paid by the Company up to conciliation.
For the purposes of this Section, an employee who is not on his day off and who spends a day in negotiations with the Company shall be deemed to have performed a day of work for all purposes, including the calculation of overtime, and Committee Members shall not be required to work the #1 Shift immediately before or the #3 Shift immediately after a day of negotiations ii they would otherwise have been so scheduled.
The Company shall not pay Committoe members for time lost from work clue (o conciliation proceedings. (1988)
8.02	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
The Company agrees that a Grievance Committee, not to exceed three (3) employees in number, selected by the Union, shall be recognized as the authorized representative cf the Union lo handle all grievances as outlined in Article 9, Step Two, Grievance Procedure.
12
The Union shall supply the Company in writing Ihc names of the employees constituting the Grievance Committee and shall inform the Company at least two (2) days prior to any meeting cf any change in the personnel of the said Committee.
Meetings between the Company and the Grievance Committee shall be held at times affording the least loss cf time to the Company and the members of the Committee. It is understood that compensation to employees for regular time lost in connection with grievances of employees shall be paid by the Company up to and including Step Three.
'Die Company shall not pay Committee members for time lost from work due to arbitration proceedings. (1988)
8.03	It is agreed that any employee selected by the Union can serve on both Committees and that all the personnel on the two (2) Committees can be the same.
8.04	Meetings of the following Union-Management Committees shall be held at times affording the least loss to the Company. Time spent by members cf these Cornmittcos shall be paid by the appropriate straight time or overtime rate.
The Union-Management Committees arc as follows:
a)	Labour Management Committee
b)	Joint Health and Safety Committee
c)	Joint Miner Training Committee
d)	Joint Apprenticeship and Trades Training Committee
8.05	I ABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Company recognizes a I.abour Management Committee comprised of five (5) Mine Managc-
13
ment including Senior Mine Management and five (5) Local Union Members including Senior Local Union Officials to meet not less than once every two months or as otherwise agreed between the parlios, for the purpose cf advising and consulting on matters impacting on the operations and the employees, and to otherwise enhance communications to their mutual benefit. (1988)
8.06	JOINT HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE
The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be composed of three (3) employees selected by the Company and three (3) employees selected by the Union. (1990)
The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall meet not less than once a month.
The purpose of the Committee is to monitor and make appropriate recommendations on matters pertaining to health and safety as provided in Article 17. (1988)
8.07	JOINT MINER TRAINING COMMITTEE
The Joint Miner Training Committee shall be composed of three (3) employees selected by the Company and three (3) employees selected by the Union. (1990)
The Joint Miner Training Committee shall meet not less than once every two (2) months, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
The purpose of the Training Committee shall be to monitor, evaluate and advise on all phases of the training and recommend as may become necessary on modifications, amendments or adjustments to the braining, evaluation process and the effectiveness cf the Program.
14
8.08 JOINT APPRENTICESHIP AND TRADES TRAINING COMMITTEE
The Joint Apprenticeship and Trades Training Committee will consist cf six (6) members based on equal representation.
The Joint Apprenticeship and Trades Training Committee shall meet not loss than once every six (6) months, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
The purpose cf the Committee shall be to evaluate and advise on all phases cf the training program. A quorum cf not loss than two (2) representatives cf the Union and the Company each, arc necessary to conduct any meeting.
ARTICLE 9
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	If an employee or group of employees has it grievance, then an earnest effort shall be made by both parties hereto to settle the grievance without delay. Such grievances shall only be concerned with disputes as to the interpretation, application or alleged violation of the terms of this Agreement. The matter may be taken up in the following mamer not later than fifteen (15) clays after the grievance has arisen.
STEP ONE
An employee shall discuss the grievance with his supervisor. This meeting shall be attended by the employee and the shift steward. ‘The Company will be represented by the employee’s supervisor, and a second Company representative. Failing settlement within fifteen (15) days the grievance proceeds to Step Two. (1990)
15
STEP TWO
The grievance shall be submitted in writing at Step Two within two (2) days following the time limits indicated in Step One. This meeting shall be attended by the employee, his steward, and the Chief Steward. The Company will be repicsented by the Production Supeiintendcnt os Moch inical Superintendent, and two (2) other Company representatives as applicable. Failing settlement within two (2) days the grievance proceeds to Step Three. (1990)
STEP THREE
The grievance shall be submitted in writing by the Grievance Committee within two (2) days lo the Mine Manager following the time limits indicated in Step Two. Any meeting held at this stage may be attended by the aggrieved employee, the Grievance Committee, an accredited official of the Union and such Company representatives as the Company may designate.
The decision reached by the Company at Step Three shall be given in writing and the Union shall advise the Company, in writing of its acceptance or rejection cf such decision. Failing agioe-ment between the Grievance Committee and the Company representatives within five (5) days, then Step Four.
STEP FOUR
By submission to Arbitration, as pet Article 10, which must be made within ten (10) days after the grievance has been dealt with in Step Three.
9.02	A grievance by the Company or the Union concerning the interpretation, application or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement may be submitted to the other party in writing at Step Three, instead of following the regulai grievance procedure.
16
9.03	No employee or employee representative shall loave his work for any cf the purposes mentioned
in this Agreement without a request to and permission from his foreman.
9.04	Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken in each of the foregoing Steps or in Article 10. Any and all 1imc limits fixed by these Articles may be extended at any time by mutual agreement cf the Company and the Union.
9.05	a) A copy of written notice cf discipline issued
to employees will be forwarded to the Local
Union Chief Steward.
b) i) Disciplinary warnings shall be deleted from an employee’s disciplinary record if a period of twelve (12) months has elapsed without any new infractions resulting in disciplinary action.
ii)	In the case of suspension an employee’s disciplinary record shall have said suspension deleted if a period of twenty-four (24) months has elapsed without any new infractions resulting in disciplinary action.
ARTICLE 10 ARBITRATION
10.01	When cither party decides to submit a grievance to Arbitration, as per Article 9, Stop Four, then the other party shall he so advised in writing. The Company and the Union shall then each appoint an arbitrator within five (5) days. The two (2) arbitrators so appointed shall meet immediately, and if, within the next five (5) days, they fail io settle the grievance, then they shall endeavour to agree upon a third arbitrator to act as Chairman
17
of the Arbitration Board. If the third arbitrator be not chosen with a further five (5) day period, then the Minister cf Labour for the Province of Ontario shall be requested to appoint an impartial Chairman.
10.02	No person shall be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved previously in an attempt to negotiate to settle the grievance.
10.03	Each party shall pay the remuneration and expenses, if any, cf the arbitrator appointed by such party and the remuneration and expenses of the Chairman shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
10.04	Notwithstanding the provisions cf Clause 10.01 and 10.03, the Company and the Union may by mutual agreement, substitute a sole arbitrator for an Arbitration Board. In this event the wards “Arbitration Board” in this article shall be deemed to read sole arbitrator. The remuneration and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Witness fees and allowanaes shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
10.05	The proceedings and the decisions of the Arbitration Board shall be expedited by the Company and the Union. The decision cf the majority of such Board shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto; but the arbitrators shall not be authorized to make, nor shall they make, any decision or recommendation inconsistent with the provisions cf this Agreement, nor alter, modify, or amend ‘any part cf this Agreement, nor make any general changes such as changes in wage rates, nor deal with any matter not covered by this Agreement.
18
ARTICLE 11
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
11.01	The Union agrees that there shall be no strike, stoppage, slow-down or restriction of output during the life cf this Agreement and that any or all of tihe employees taking part in, or instigating any such strike, stoppage, slow-down or restriction cf output, shall be subject to discharge or other discipline by the Company provided, however, that any employee who believes that he has been wrongfully discharged or disciplined may avail himself of the grievance procedure.
11.02	The Company agrees that there shall be no lockout during the life cf this Agreement.
ARTICLE 12
MAINTENANCE & PROTECTION DURING SUSPENSION OF WORK
12.01	It is agreed that, during any general suspension of work at the said mine at any time and for any cause whatsoever, the Company's property shall be protected, the skip hoist, water pumps, and other machinery necessary lor 1hc protection of the mine, shall be kept operating, and the Company’s equipment shall be left in good condition by the employees. The safety provisions of the current Occupational Health and Safoty Act, and Regulations for Mines and Mining Plants shall be folly complied with by all employees prior lo any cessation of work.
12.02	It is understood that those employees who are required to remain at work, or report to work (including Mine Rescue personnel), under the provisions of Section 12.01 above, shall be available far such work during the suspension of work. No production or shipping work shall be done by such employees. (199(5)
19
It is agreed that personnel jequiicd to report for work under sections 12.01 and 12.02 shall have life, A.D.&D. and hospital insurances maintained by the Company for claims incurred on any day the employee has actively been at work. (1990)
12.03	The employees referred to in Section 12.02 above shall be paid at the wage rates in effect at the time cf the general suspension of work.
ARTICLE 13
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
13.01	The work week commences at the beginning of Monday’s #1 Shift as defined in 13.02 and the regular hours cf work shall be irrty (40) per week which shall normally consist of five (5) eight (8) hour shifts in accordance with the regularly assigned shift schedules. Shift schedules affecting three (3) shift seven (7) day mining operations shall provide an average of forty (40) hours per week over a four (4) week cycle. Employees on such a schedule arc not eligible for overtime pay on the sixth (6th) regularly scheduled shift in any work week. (1988)
13.02	Monday’s #1 Shift is any shift starling between 20:01 hours on Sunday and 04:00 hours on Monday. Monday’s #2 Shift is any shift starting between 04:01 hours and 12:00 hours on Monday. Monday’s #3 Shift is any shift starting between 12:01 hours and 20:00 hours on Monday. Shifts for the remaining clays of the week will follow the same pattern. (1988)
13.03	One-half Q/i) hour lunch period with pay shall be granted to all employees, The Company reserves the right to stagger the above one-half (Vi) hour lunch periods in order to maintain continuous production. (1990)
13.04	a) Except as noted in Section 13.05 all hours
worked in excess of the regularly assigned
20
daily hours shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at rates of one and one-half the employee’s straight time classified rate except double the employee’s straight time classified rate will be paid for the following:
i)	For five (5) day operation employees all hours worked on non-schcduled Sundays.
ii)	For five (5) day operation employees all hours in excess of eight (8) hours on a non-scheduled Saturday.
iii)	For seven (7) day continuous operation employees who arc required to work in excess of eight (8) hours on the first (1st) clay cf rest in a given work week.
iv)	For seven (7) day continuous operation employees who are required to work on their second or subsequent clays of rest in a given work week.
b)	An employee who works more than twelve (12) continuous hours shall be paid at the rate cf double time for all hours worked beyond the twelve (12) hours. Lunch periods or breaks not exceeding two (2) hours in duration shall not be considered as breaking a continuous period cf work. Overtime shall be calculated to the nearest one-quarter (V4) hour worked.
e) For the purpose of time off when a holiday occurs on an employee’s scheduled clay(s) of rest, the employee shall have the option of a day(s) off in lieu cf the holiday. The employee will indicate his desire to exercise this option one (I) week prior to the holiday. The lieu day will be taken within the calendar year with the exception of lieu days for Christmas Day and Boxing Day which may he extended to March 31st of the following year. Any request for a lieu day off must be mutually agreed between the employee and his foreman one (1) week
21
in advance of such day. Lieu days accumulated before November 15th must be scheduled by that date. Alternatively, the Company may schedule a common shift off foi the employees affected.
13.05	a) If in any work week, the Company changes an
employee from what is his scheduled #1 Shift, #2 Shift or #3 Shift for that week, to one of the other two (2) shifts without notifying him personally, or his residence by telephone, at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the starting time cf the first shift on the now schedule, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half far the first shift worked on the new schedule. Subsequent shifts worked on the new schedule shall be paid for at straight time subject to the overtime provisions of this Agreement. (1988)
b)	Employees who work outside of their regular work week ctl their regular shift shall be paid at the overtime rate cf time and one-half for such work even if they have failed to work five (5) regular shifts within their regular work week for good and sufficient reason.
c)	Two employees may exchange shifts by mutual consent, provided they have received prior approval from both their supervisors. Under no circumstances will overtime be paid as a result of this exchange cf shifts.
13.06	From lime to time overtime may be required which shall be offered to qualified employees on a departmental basis. Should those employees decline and a suitable replacement is not available it is understood the Company may assign the least senior qualified employees who are immediately available.
The Company agrees to give as much advance notice as possible to employees required to work outside their regular work week.
22
13.07	Overtime Distribution
Overtime work shall be distributed as equally as possible among those qualified employees on a departmental basis at the wage rate normally paid for the job. The overtime roster to be posted every month.
To effect the purpose cf his Scotion, a record of ovorlime will be posted in each Department; once every month during the term of this Agreement the record of overtime will be reviewed for the purpose cf making whatever adjustments may be necessary during the following quarter. While it is recognized by the Company and the Union that it is not possible to ensure an equality of overtime at any given time, the Company agrees i o maintain to the best cf its ability, an equality of distribution on a continuing basis, within a department.
Each department as described in 6.07 may establish the method cf evenly distributing overtime within their department by a consensus of seventy-five percent (75%) majority and the approval of the Company. If a consensus of a seventy-five percent (75%) majority within the department cannot be reached, any employee working or refusing overtime or call outs shall have the ;amount of time he worked or would have worked charged against his overtime roster.
An employee shall have his overtime set at the average df the employees in Ihc appropriate department or the employee’s actual hours worked and refused from his previous department whichever is higher when he:
a)	is permanently transferred into another department;
b)	returns to work following an absence from work in excess cf two (2) weeks, except for absence on a vacation with pay.
23
Employees temporarily assigned to another Department will take their overtime hours from the roster with them while on the temporary assignment.
Employees working overtime for committee work or for mine rescue training or for mine roscuc work shall not be charged on the overtime roster for the overtime so worked or refused.
NOTE: Employees refusing overtime due to bereavement in accordance with Article
18.02	shall not be charged on the overtime roster. (1970)
13.08	An employee who is on a temporary assignment to another Department will assume the hours and conditions cf work cf that department during the assignment.
13.09	In the event an employee works two or more hours overtime continuous with his regular or overtime shift he shall be provided a meal, or meal allowance at the conclusion cf ten (10) hours worked. If he is required to work more than ten (10) hours, he will be provided with a one-half (V2) hour lunch period with pay. The approximate value of the meal shall equal eight dollars ($8.00), or the employee shall receive a cash payment of an equal amount in the event a meal cannot be provided. The meal, (or equal payment) shall be provided each succeeding period of four (4) hours overtime. In cases where a cash payment is made, if an employee arranges to have a meal brought in by taxi from Goderich, the cost of such taxi shall be paid for by the Company up to a maximum of five dollars ($5.00) upon presentation of a valid receipt. Elowever, this shall not apply if an employee is granted permission to go home in order to have his meal at his regular time. (1990)
13.10	Hoisting and lowering schedules for employees working underground shall be arranged to provide eight (8) hours from collar Io collar for each shift.
24
Mill and surface employcos shall be in their designated working places ready to begin work at the time the starting signal is given and, insofar as finishing work is concerned, shall he governed by the following:
a)	where employees’ duties require the cleaning lip cf machinery, the putting away cf equipment, sweeping, etc., a signal shall be given five (5) minutes prior to the final signal and this time shall be utilized for such purposes;
b)	where employees' duties do not require such cleaning, they shall continue their duties until the final signal;
c)	in all cases, employees shall not leave their respective departments until the final signal is given.
13.11	Employees trapped in the Mine after the completion of their regular shift will be paid their hourly rate for all hours so trapped and will not be required to climb Old cf tile Mine until at least eight (8) hours have elapsed.
13.12	An employee who reports for work at his regularly scheduled time and was not notified in advance not to report by notice either:
a)	personally,
b)	to his residence by telephone,
c)	on the bulletin board, or,
d)	through the radio (C.K.N.X.),
shall he guaranteed four (4) hours work at his regular rate of pay, even if there is no work in his department. (1990)
The foregoing shall not apply when an employee is absent without leave during his preceding work period.
25
13.13	a) An employee called out for emergency work
and not so notified during his previous working period shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at his regular straight time rate, or pay for the actual hours worked at the appropriate overtime rates whichever is the greater, except that an employee called out for emergency work between midnight and 5:00 a.m. shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at time and one-half. Emergency work is unscheduled work performed by an employee during times other than his regular work periods and not continuous with such periods.
b)	Maintenance employees reporting for mine start-up for #1 Shift shall be paid a minimum cf four (4) hours at his regular straight time rate or pay for actual hours worked at the appropriate overtime rate, whichever is the greater. (1988)
13.14	No provision in this Agreement shall entitle an employee to more than one overtime premium payment for the same hours worked.
13.15	This Article is only for the purpose cf establishing hours of work and of calculating overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours cf work per day or per week, except as noted in Sections 13.12 and 13.13 above.
13.16	An employee who is scheduled to report for work for vessel loading or to perform alternative work with the expectation of vessel arrival, and whose reporting time is delayed by a delay in vessel arrival, shall, if he is required to delay reporting by more than fout (4) hours, be paid two (2) hours at straight time, if an employee is asked to work on vessel loading or to perform alternative work with the expectation cf vessel arrival, and it is cancelled after he has left work for bis scheduled days off, he shall be paid two (2) hours at his regulai straight time rate. (1990)
26
ARTICLE 14 RATES OF PAY
14.01	The Company and the Union agree that the rates of pay, as sot forth in the attached Schedule “A” shall form part of this Agreement and shall continue in offeot for the duration of this Agreement.
14.02	A shift premium of forty-one cents ($0.41) per hour and sixty-one cents ($0.61) per hour shall be paid for work performed on all #3 or #1 Shifts. This premium will not be paid to employees called in to work in accordance with Article 13.13 (a). (1990)
Effective April 1, 1991, the #3 Shift premium will be increased to forty-three cents ($0.43) per hour and the #1 Shift premium will be increased to sixty-four cents ($0.64) per hour. (1990)
The shirt premium payable lor overtime attached to a shift will be that of the employee’s scheduled shift. (1990)
14.03	A premium of forty-four cents ($0.44) per hour shall be paid for all time worked underground. (1988)
14.04	a) Employees who are required to work Saturday
as part of their regular scheduled work week shall receive a premium of two dollars and seventy-five cents ($2.75) per hour for all hours worked on Saturday Shifts as defined in 13.02. (1990)
Effective April 1, 1991, the premium will be increased to three dollars ($3.00) per hour for all hours worked on Saturday Shifts us defined in 13.02. (1990)
b)	SUNDAY PREMIUMS
Employees when working cn a seven (7) day shift schedule, shall be paid Fcr all regularly
27
scheduled hours worked on Sunday as part of their regular work week, at one and one-half times their regular straight time rate for all hours worked on Sunday Shifts as defined in 13.02. (1988)
14.05	The calculation cf overtime or holiday rates shall not be applied to shift, underground, Saturday premium or Sunday premium.
14.06	For temporary transfers other than as contemplated in Article 6, Section 6.03, an employee who is temporarily transferred for the convenience cf the Company shall be paid the rate of the new job or shall roccive his regular rate cf pay, whichever is the greater. The duration cf a temporary transfer shall be not more than thirty (30) consecutive days.
14.07	During the term of this Agreement, if a new job is established or there is substantial change in the duties cf an existing job, the Company agrees to meet with the Union Negotiating Committee prior Lq if possible, the establishment cf the rate, to negotiate a rate for such new or substantially changed job based on present job classifications and rates in Schedule “A” of this Agreement.
In the event the Company cannot meet with the Committee prior to the establishment of the rate or if, due to job conditions, it is not possible to establish a final rate, the Company shall establish what the interim rate shall be and shall meet with the Committee as soon as possible to finalize the rate.
If the Company and the Union cannot agree on a final rate, the interim rate shall continue in effect and the matter shall be settled in the subsequent negotiations for a new Agreement. If the final rate shall be higher than the interim rate, reU'oactivity on the rate adjustment shall be made.
28
14.08	a) All employees working in No. 1 or No. 3 shaft below the collar or those greasing, inspecting and repairing from the collar to the sheave wheels, shall be paid a shaft premium of thirty cents (SO. 30) per hour. The shaft premium of thirty cents ($0.30) will also be paid to the crews engaged on the lowering of major equipment from the centre sheave wheel including slinging equipment or material from or below the skips.
b) All employees working in No. 2 shaft below the collar and those greasing, inspecting or repairing up to but not including the first landing above the collar, shall be paid a shaft premium cf thirty cents ($0.30) per hour.
e)	No employee working in the shaft shall earn a straight time rate which when combined with the shaft premium is less than Face Loader rate.
ARTICLE 15 MINE HOLIDAYS
15.01	a) For the purposes cf this Agreement, the following days or any days substituted for them by Government decree or general practice shall be recognized as mine holidays.
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Boxing Day
Civic Holiday I abour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Heritage Day
b) All employees who have completed their probationary period shall be entitled to an additional eight (8) hours pay at Christmas at their straight time classified rate.
29
c)	Employees, other than those required for watchman duties, who are regularly scheduled to work #3 Shift immediately preceding Christmas or New Years or both shall not be required to report for work and shall be paid at their scheduled wage rate for eight hours at straight time for each cf the above shifts for which he was scheduled. (1988)
15.02	An employee shall be entitled to be paid far the above holidays at his scheduled wage rate at straight time for eight hours provided that an employee shall not be entitled to be so paid:
a)	If he does not work on the above holidays or substituted days when he has been required or scheduled to do so; however, an employee shall be paid for a holiday if he has a legitimate reason for being absent from work on the holiday and notifies the Company prior to the stait of his shift on such holiday, or prior to the holiday has received the approval of his supervisor for such absence.
b)	If he is absent without leave on his regularly scheduled working day immediately proceding or his regularly scheduled working day immediately succeeding the above holidays, or substituted days, unless he works on the holiday.
c)	If the above holidays occur while he is laid off, except during the first 14 calendar days.
d)	If the above holidays occur while he is on leave cf absence, or on Workers' Compensation.
e)	Unless he has been in the employ of the Company for forty-five (45) accumulated days in a twelve (12) month period.
15.03	An employee who is required to work on any of the above holidays shall be paid far such hours
30
worked at two (2) times his classified straight time rate exclusive cf such holiday pay to which he may be entitled as set forth in Section 15.02.
15.04	Should any cf the holidays in 15.01(a) fall within an employee’s vacation period, lie shall receive an additional day’s pay provided he qualifies for such holiday under clause 15.02. An employee who qualifies for the holiday may choose to take one (1) day off without pay at a time mutually agreed between himself and his suporvisor.
15.05	a) All regular employees shall be entitled to two
(2) “floating” holidays per year with, pay for eight (8) hours at their scheduled straight time rate. The day observed as a floating holiday shall be such clay as may be mutually agreed upon between an employee and his foreman.
b)	An employee who has completed his first six (6) months cf service with the Company shall be entitled to one (1) floating holiday.
Upon completion cf his second (2nd) six (6) months cf service he shall be entitled to a second (2nd) floating holiday.
No employee will be entitled lo more than the maximum floating holiday allowance in any calendar year.
c)	Outstanding floating holidays not scheduled by the employee prior lo November 15th of each calendar year shall be assigned by the Company.
15.06	No production, shipping or regular maintenance work will be scheduled on Christmas Day, New Year’s Day and Canada Day or on #3 Shift on the day preceding Christmas Day and New Year’s Day; however, watchmen and some emergency services which, if not provided, would riot allow production to resume on the next regular shift may be required. (1988)
31
15.07	Employees whose normal schedule would require them to work #3 Shift preceding Christmas or New Year’s and who arc required to work the shift, will be paid for such work at the rate cf time and one-half in addition to the eight hours to which they are entitled under Article 15.02. (1988)
15.08	When an employee is drawing Weekly Indemnity or Workers’ Compensation and a Mine Holiday occurs during that period, lie shall be paid the difference between 8 hours pay at his straight time rate and Weekly Indemnity or Workers’ Compensation as long as he is receiving Weekly Indemnity or Workers’ Compensation.
ARTICLE 16 VACATION WITH PAY
16.01	The vacation year shall be January 1st to December 31st and the vacation week commences with Monday’s #1 Shift and consists of seven (7) consecutive days. (1988)
16.02	All employees who have completed less than one (1) year of continuous service with the Company in any year, shall be entitled to vacation pay equal to four percent (4%) of earnings during the vacation year in which the vacation credit is earned.
16.03	Employees who complete one (1) year cf service in any calendar year will be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay based on four percent (4%) of the employee’s previous year’s earnings.
16.04	Employees who complete five (5) years of service in any calendar year will be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay, based on six percent (6%) cf the employee’s previous year’s earnings.
16.05	Employees who complete ten (10) years of service in any calendar year will be entitled to four (4)
32
weeks vacation with pay based on eight percent (8%) cf the employee’s previous year’s earnings.
16.06	Employees who complete twenty (20) years of service in any calendar year will be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation with pay based on ten percent (10%) of the employee’s previous year’s earnings.
16.07	Employees who complete twenty-five (25) years cf service in any calendar year will be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation with pay based on twelve percent (12%) cf the employee’s previous year’s earnings.
16.08	Vacations shall be taken within the vacation year, at times scheduled by the Company, lo cause the least disturbance to the efficient operation of the Mine. So far as is practical, preference shall be given to the applications for allotment cf vacation time on the basis of seniority. The employees shall indicate their preference no later than March 15th.
16.09	For those employees taking their full vacation’s entitlement in January, February or March, the Company will consider granting one week leave ol absence continuous with vacation subject to the number of employees presenting such a request.
16.10	When an employee leaves the Company, he shall be paid the vacation pay due him calculated at four (4), six (6), eight (8), ton (10) or twelve (12) percent cf earnings during the vacation year in which employment is terminated.
Vacation Pay on termination will be adjusted in such a manner so as not to duplicate vacation pay for the same periods cf time worked.
16.11	Supplementary Vacation
An employee cf 60 years of age or more with 25 years or more cf continuous service with the
33
Company shall be entitled to supplementary vacation with pay in addition to his regular vacation entitlement under Article 16.
In accordance with the following schedule on the basis of age and service.
Age 60 — 1 week entitlement Age 61 ■— 2 weeks entitlement Age 62 — 3 weeks entitlement Age 63 — 4 weeks entitlement Age 64 ■— 5 weeks entitlement
Pay for the above supplementary vacation shall be calculated on the basis of forty (40) times their regular classified rate as listed at the end of the previous vacation year.
16.12	If an employee is absent from work under the Weekly Indemnity Plan or Workers’ Compensation Plan during the year in which his vacation credit is earned and has worked at least 25% of the scheduled hours during that qualifying year, any payment received by him from the Weekly Indemnity Plan or Workers’ Compensation Plan shall be deemed to be part cf his earnings for the purpose only cf determining vacation pay in the qualifying year. (1988)
16.13	Employees affected by 16.12 may not be required to take their full vacation entitlement, however the employee must take the minimum time off that corresponds to the vacation pay that he has eai red rounded up to the nearest week oi two (2) weeks vacation time whichever is greater. (1988)
ARTICLE 17
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
17.01	It is the intention cf the parties hereto that no employee shall be required to work under conditions which are unsafe or unhealthy, therefore:
34
a)	The parties agree to endorse and comply with the current Occupational Health and Safety Act, together with any other applicable Health and Safety Legislation and including the respective Regulations thereto; however, the term cf Legislation and Regulations are governed by law and arc not subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures cf Hie Collective Agreement.
b)	Any references to Legislation heroin expressed shall mean Legislation by and of 1hc Government of the Province cf Ontario or the Dominion cf Canada as applied at present or as may be revised.
17.02	a) The Company recognizes its responsibility lo provide a safe and healthy working environment for all persons who are affected by the provisions of the Collective Agreement.
b) The Company shall make all necessary and reasonable provisions for the safety and health cf its employees during the hours cf their employment and shall provide protective equipment and other safety devices in accordance with the forsgoing legislation, its present practices and as may be deemed appropriate through consultation by the parties hereto.
17.03	a) The parties mutually recognize their obligation to work co-operativcly in the development and maintenance cf safe and healthy working conditions.
b) The parlies further agree lo make all reasonable efforts to improve and promote sale and healthy conditions and to encourage employees to observe and comply with all Mine and Legislative Safety Regulations.
17.04	The functions, powers and terms of reference of the Health and Safety Committee shall be as
3s
outlined in the Occupational Health and Safety Act, and Regulations for Mines and Mining Plants or as additionally provided hereunder which shall minimally include:
I a) the Committee shall make inspections once a month of the mine site.
b) the Committee shall be provided with all Workers’ Compensation repoits, accident and occupational illness reports, othei than minoi injury reports, near miss reports, incident lepoits, work refusal repoits, and any enviion-mental health and safety studies relating to the mining and salt industry of which the Company, the Committee or the Union are aware and deem to be relevant for the review, consideration and appropiiate action by the Committee. The foiegoing shall include threshold limit values and appropriate precautions as are available from the Ontario Ministry of Labour. (1990)
c)	the Committee shall meet once a month to review and make appropriate recommendations regarding:
— inspection by the Committee or other authoritative bodies, and any actions on recommendations or directions therefrom,
■— procedures and/or work practices,
— all accidents or near misses,
— any hoalth and safety studies and/or reports relevant to the mining industry, or,
— such other matters as may be referred by the Company, the Union, or as may be decided by the Committee.
The Committee shall consider all such matters including items of previous minutes and action thereon and forthwith make recommendations lo the Company.
36
d)	the Chairmanship cf the Committee shall alternate between the Company and Union members as determined by the Committee.
c)	the Committee shall can sc to have minutes of each meeting promptly posted and distributed to all members and the parties hereto. Any differences as io the completeness or accuracy cf the minutes shall be included in the subsequent minutes.
f) the Committee members shall be provided adequate prior notice of the time and place cf each meeting and shall minimally be remunerated pursuant to the applicable legislation. (11)88)
17.05	A designated Union member of the Health and Safety Committee shall inspect the place where an accident has occurred resulting in a fatality or an employee being critically injured. Union members of the Health and Safety Committee shall investigate accidents involving fatalities and disabling injuries having potential for extended loss of time by an employee. (1988)
17.06	The Company shall conduct periodic onsite air sampling, noise testing, hearing loss testing pro grams by qualified personnel with recognized Government approved equipment. The results of the testing and sampling will be made available to the Health and Safely Committee.
17.07	'Phe Company agrees to provide a safety education program including an indoctrination and training program for now employees.
17.08	Health and Safety Committee members who arc bargaining unit employees will not act as witnesses in instances cf discipline or discharge related to safety violations.
17.09	The Company agrees to continue to implement
37
engineering methods for the establishment and maintenance of a healthy and safe environment.
17.10	Letters cf Understanding regarding safe practices and procedures outlining minimum standards for safety and health at the mine site are attached hereto. It is understood that these letters may he amended or other Letters added by agreement cf the parties.
17.11	Employees shall not be required by the Company to work underground during periods of power failure, when there is no voice communication at all betvvoen underground and surface or when all hoists are inoperative. (1988)
17.12	The Company shall on tihe first pay period in February, pay to all employees actively at work, and to all others following their return to work, a safety footwear allowance for safety footwear by paying sixty-five dollars ($65) to each employee who has completed his probational y period. Employees who complete their probationary period after the first pay period in February but during the calendar year shall be paid theii allowance upon completion of their probational y period. (1990)
17.13	The Company requires all employees to weai safety glasses. An employee who requires safety piescription glasses at work will be provided with up to a maximum of one paii per calcudai year. In the event that an employee damages this pair cf glasses in the same calendar year, the Company will pay fifty per cent (50%) ol the cost of an additional pair of piescription safety glasses on provision of proof of damage. (1990)
17.14	The Company agrees to provide, foi the term of this Agieement, coverall cleaning services sufficient lo allow two (2) coverall changes pci week (5 coveralls in total). These coveralls will only
38
be provided to those employees posted to positions in the maintenance department, excluding hoist-men. (1990)
Employees must use the coverall rental and cleaning service to be eligible for this allowance.
ARTICLE 18 GENERAL
18.01	The Company agrees that the Union may post notices on a Notice Hoard supplied by the Company for such purposes, provided that such notices have been individually approved in writing by the Company, and have been signed by responsible officials of the Union.
The Union agrees that it shall not distribute or post any pamphlets, advertising or political matter, or any kind of literature within the Mine properly, except as herein provided.
18.02	Bereavement Leave
An employee shall be compensated at his hourly rate for a period of not more than four (4) regularly scheduled work shifts within the period commencing on the date of death and extending up to and including the calendar day following the day of the funeral for absence due to a death in the immediate family; that is: spouse, son, daughter, stepson, stepdaughter, father or mother, stepfather or stepmother, sister or brother; provided that such days fall on regularly scheduled working days of the employee. In the event of the death of an employee's mother-in-law, father-inlaw, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild he shall be granted leave from one regular shift with pay to attend the funeral services. If an employee is required io make funeral arrangements, he shall be granted compensation for three (3) regular shifts under conditions as set forth herein.
39
In the event of a winter death and a spring burial, one (1) of the foiu (4) days or, if the employee is required to make funeral arrangements foi a relative outside of his immediate family, one (1) of the three (3) days, referred to herein, may be taken at the time of the burial. (1990)
Where the bereavement in the immediate family occuis outside North Amciica an employee shall be compensated at his hourly rate foi a period <£ not more than two (2) consecutive regularly scheduled work shifts within the period commencing on the date of death and extending up to and including the day of the funeral, if unable to attend the funeral. (1990)
18.03	Jury or Witness Duty
The Company will make up the difference between the regular day's pay and the fee received by any employee who is required to perform jury duty, or who is subpoenaed to give evidence foi the Crown or for a Coroner.
The Company may require the employee to furnish a certificate cf service signed by the Clerk of the Court, or the Coroner, before making any payment undei this Article.
18.04	Lcadhands
A working leadhand is a member of the bargaining unit who loads and co-ordinates the activities of a number of men in carrying out the work assignments as directed by the Supei visor, while exercising no discipline.
18.05	All references to days in this Agiecmcut shall mean working clays.
18.06	In all cases of interpretation or arbitration of the terms cf this Agreement, the text of the original signed copies shall govern.
18.07	The use of the masculine gender in this Agreement includes the feminine. (1 988)
40
ARTICLE 19 GROUP INSURANCE
19.01 The Company shall continue the Group Insurance Plan during the term cf this Agreement comprising:
a)	Group Life Insurance benefits, Accidental Death and Dismemberment benefits (AD&D), Weekly Indemnity (WI), Long Term Disability (LTD), Hospital, Major Medical benefits, Dental Plan, Family Eyeglass Plan. Eligibility is based on full-time employment and upon application by the employee. Effective date cf coverage for benefits is dependant upon the individual benefit and employees must refer to the plan booklet. The plan will be administered in accordance with the terms and conditions of the master insurance policy. (1990)
b)	WEEKLY INDEMNITY
Weekly Indemnity shall be paid at sixty six and two thirds percent (66%%) of an employee’s basic straight time classified rate multiplied by forty hours, with compulsory participation and integrated with government plans. It will be payable on the first day cf non-occupational accident, the first clay of hospitalization and the fourth day cf illness. It will be payable for it maximum of thirty-two (32) weeks. Employees should refer lo the plan booklet for exceptions and limitations.
c)	LIFE INSURANCE
Coverage is one and one half (IV4) times the employees straight time classified rate multiplied by 2080 and adjusted to the nearest one hundred dollars. Employees should refer to the plan booklet lor details. (1990)
41
tl) ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT
Coverage is one and one half (IV2) times the employees straight time classified rate multiplied by 2080 and adjusted to the nearest one hundred dollars. Employees should lefet to the plan hooklet lor details. (1990)
e)	RETIREE LIFE INSURANCE
Existing Life and AD&D Insurance reduces on the following basis:
1)	100% cf Life and AD&D Insurance in effec-t immediately prior to retirement remains in effect for the first year of retirement.
2)	Coverage reduces to 75% the second yeat of retirement.
3)	Coverage reduces to 50% the third year of retirement.
4)	25% cf coverage thereafter.
f)	MAJOR MEDICAL
The Major Medical benefit is designed to complement the Provincial Health Plan. Should the Provincial Plan change bo include any of the expenses currently eligible under this plan, the Sifto Canada Plan will automatically adjust accordingly.
The benefit pays a percentage of all eligible expenses recommended as necossaiy by a physician which are reasonable and customary in the area in which the expenses arc incurred and which are in excess of any other benefits payable under this plan and in excess of the deductible.
i)	The deductible is the amount of eligible expenses each calendar year which must be
42
paid in full by the employee before any benefits are payable. The deductible is twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for those insured for employee only coverage; or twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for those insured for employee and dependent coverage.
Eligible expenses incurred in the last three months cf the calendar year which are not sufficient to be applied against the deductible for that year will also be applied against the deductible for the next year.
ii)	The maximum amount payable for each employee in any one year is twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) less any benefits paid in the immediately preceding two calendar years.
iii)	The appropriate portion cf the following expenses will be paid, provided the expenses charged are reasonable and medically necessary.
Drugs payable at 100%
Mental and Nervous Disorders payable at SO%
General and Medical Expenses payable at 80%
Employees should refer to the plan booklet for details.
g)	SEMI-PRIVATE HOSPITAL COVERAGE
Full semi-private hospital coverage will be provided as part d the Group Insurance Plan.
h)	LONG TERM DISABILITY
The Long Term Disability Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of the Insurance Policy and shall contain the following governing provisions:
43
1)	Eligibility — The L.T.D. Plan shall be compulsory for all full lime regular employees who are participants in and who are covered for Weekly Indemnity Benefits under existing Group Insurance Plan.
2)	Qualifying Period — “Qualifying period” means thirty-two (32) consecutive and cumulative weeks of Weekly Indemnity Benefits for one disability.
3)	Definition cf Disability in L.T.D. Plan — “Disability” shall mean an insured employee who has received thirty-two (32) weeks cf bandits under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and who, for an additional period cf 36 months, is unable, because of non-occupational disease oi accidental bodily injury, to perform any and every duty of every occupation in the Mine foi which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience and thereafter is unable to perform any and every duty of any occupation for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience.
4)	Amounts cf Benefits — All employees who are actively at work on the effective date cf the plan or any amendments thereto shall be provided with a Long Term Dis ability Benefit equal lo fifty percent (50%) of regular straight time hourly rate multiplied by 2,080 and divided by twelve (12) up to a maximum monthly payment ol $1,900.00. (1990)
The amount of benefits shall be reduced by any primary payments made under any Government disability plan, Workers’ Compensation, or any other non-private disability income plans.
The amount cf benefit shall not be reduced by Disability Pension payments under War
44
Veterans' or Workers' Compensation if the disability is unrelated.
Employees should refer to the plan booklet for exclusions and other details.
5)	Duration of Benefits To Be The Earlier Of:
a)	a benefit period equal lo months of service
b)	age 65
c)	date of retirement
d)	date cf death
e)	date the employee ceases to be disabled
6)	Group Insurance and Tension Plan Benefits While Receiving 1.1.1).
i)	Pension Accruals:	While entitled to
benefits under the L.T.D. Plan, a contributory member of the plan will continue to accrue Pension benefits, free cf contributions by him, based on his regular classified rale as cf the date disability commenced. Although accruing pension benofits, no death or termination benefits will accrue during this period except with respect to interest on employee contributions made prior to dale of disability.
ii)	The present provisions with respect to disability pension payments shall be amended so that they will only become payable if the employee qualifies for such payment after expiry cf his L.T.D. benefit period.
iii)	Company Paid Life Insurance: Coverage will be maintained on a waiver of premium basis. Installment life benefits
45
will be paid if an employee under age sixty-five (65) continues to be totally disabled and he no longer has benefit entitlement under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and L.T.D. Man.
tv) Group Accidental Death and Dismemberment: Coverage will be terminated while an employee is receiving L.T.D. benefits.
v)	Major Medical and Dental: Coverage will be maintained in accordance with the conditions applying under the Collective Agreement.
vi)	An employee on L.T.D. shall not accumulate credit for vacation or holidays.
vii)	An employee who returns to work after being on L.T.D. shall be credited with accumulated service.
i)	DENTAL PLAN
The Company shall provide a dental plan with participation compulsory for all employees covered by the bargaining unit on the following basis:
i)	Eligible Expenses
Eligible Expenses under this plan are expenses for dental treatment recommended as necessary by a physician or dentist which are not in excess of the minimum fee specified in the Dental Pee Schedule for the Province of Ontario.
ii)	Module I Basic Coverage
The plan provides employees and their eligible dependents with reimbursement of
46
80% cf the cost cf the following expenses:	Diagnostic preventive therapy,
oral surgery, minor restorative dentistry, repairs cf an existing appliance, endodontics and periodontics. Employees should refer to the plan booklet for details.
iii)	Module II Major Restorative
The Company will provide a Module II Dental Plan which provides employees and their eligible dependents with reimbursement a oighty percent (80%) of the cost of the following expenses: crowns and inlays, replacement or creation cf an appliance and services of a licensed Dcn-turist. Employees should refer lo the plan booklet for details. (1990)
iv)	Module III Orthodontics
The Company will provide a Module III Dental Plan which provides employees and their eligible dependants with reimbursement cf fifty percent (50%) of theii cost of orthodontic treatment, vctlical dimension correction, correction of temporomandibular joint dysfunction, or full mouth reconstruction. This plan will have a one thousand two hundred and fifty dolhu ($1250.00) lifetime maximum. (1990)
Employees should refer to the plan booklet for details.
v)	Administration
These plans will be administered in accordance with the terms and conditions ef the master policy: the decision as to the choice cf administrative vehicle will be made by the Company.
47
vi)	Effective Date of Coverage
Eligibility €or these benefits shall apply only to those employees who are actually at work on the effective date cf the plan. If an employee is not actively at work on the effective date of this plan or any amendment thereof, coverage will commence when he returns to work full time. New employees will become eligible for coverage after one (1) year of continuous service.
vii)	Integration With Other Plans
If an employee is insured simultaneously under any other plan which provides benefits similar lo those provided under this plan, payment of benefits for that employee or his eligible dependents under this plan will be determined by the coordination of benefits provision. The payments from all sources will not exceed the total of actual expenses incurred.
viii)	Integration With Government Plans
The plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by Provincial or Federal legislation. If during the life of this Agreement Provincial or Federal Governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by the plan, the plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits. Any resulting premium savings shall accrue to the Company and employees in accordance with the cost sharing in effect.
j) FAMILY EYEGLASS PLAN
Effective April 1, 1991, the Company shall provide a family eyeglass plan. The plan will
48
provide a maximum benefit of severity-five dollars ($75.00) every two (2) calendar years for employees and each eligible dependent. 'Phis benefit will cover the cost aE frames, lenses, fitting of prescription glasses, and contact lenses. (1990)
k)	COST SHARING FOR PREMIUMS
The Company shall contribute one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost of these benefits except as follows:
i)	Module II, Denial Plan premiums will be one hundred percent (100%) paid by participating employees.
Effective April I, 1991 MxLdia II, Dental Plan premiums will be fifty percent (50%,) paid by participating employees. (1990)
ii)	as provided in 19.0! (ru) and (n).
l)	EFFECTIVE DATE OF COVERAGE AND U.I.C. REBATE
Changes in the group insurance plan will take place only for those employees who arc actively at work as of the effective date, who would otherwise qualify and for employees off work who otherwise qualify, as of their first full day cf active employment thereafter.
In view of (he improvement in Weekly Indemnity, Life Insurance, and the introduction of (he Major Medical Plan and the increased premium costs to be paid by the Company, Ihe employee’s share of the premium reduction (5/12 portion) of the Unemployment Insurance Premium for the effective dale under the U.I.C. Act from (he effective date cf implementation shall be retained by the Company. (1990)
49
m)	CONTINUATION OF BENEFITS FOR LAY-OFF
Employees with one (1) or more years of service shall have Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Major Medical, and Semi-private benefits continued on the cost sharing as provided above until the first of the month following sixty (60) days of lay-oil, thereafter the employee may maintain benefits as listed herein for the balance of the first four (4) months of lay-off by paying the full cost of the premiums. (1990)
n)	CONTINUATION OF BENEFITS FOR EARLY RETIREES
The Company shall pay fifty percent (50%) of the cost of Major Medical for employees who retire early. This benefit shall cease when the employee reaches age sixty-five (65). (1990)
ARTICLE 20 SIFTO CANADA
INDUSTRIAL CONVERSION PLAN (SCICP)
20.01	The parties have agreed to hold discussions ai the National level during the term of the Agreement, with a view to establishing a Sifto Canada Industrial Conveision Plan (SCICP) having provisions similar to those found in the current Domtar Industrial Conversion Plan during the term cf this Agreement. These discussions will take place at the Sift Canada/ECWU Task Force level. (1990)
ARTICLE 21 PENSION PLAN
21.01	The parties agree to establish a Sifto Canada Pension Plan €or negotiated employees. The plan
50
will conic into effect April 1, 1990 and remain in effect for the term of this Collective Agreement. The plan will contain all substantive provisions of the current Domlar Pension Plan for Unionized Employees. These provisions will include but not be limited to the existing plan’s employee contribution levels, temporary formula benefits, bridging supplement, eligibility requirements and partial indexation of benefits tu inflation. (1990)
ARTICLE 22 TRAINING
22.01	MINER TRAINING PROGRAM
1.	Preamble
The parties recognize the importance and value of ensuring that Mining Department employees have a thorough knowledge and understanding cf the principles of Occupational Health and Safety, together with methods, practices and skills cf their occupation in order to maximize safety for themselves and fellow workers in meeting the needs of Industry during their employment.
Additionally recognized is the need to provide employees the opportunity to acquire certification cf their qualifications appropriate to the needs of the Mine and as it becomes available through the appropriate Government Ministry or as may otherwise be recognized by the parties if not designated or regulated officially.
2.	Purpose
Die Miner Training Program is provided to ensure employees are equipped with the skills and knowledge to safely and effectively fulfill the mining functions of the Schedule “A” Jab Classification appropriate to the Mine requirements.
51
3.	Entrance Qualifications
Acceptance into a Miner 'Training Module shall be conditional upon the employee having the physical capability of carrying out the functions of the job or skill for which lie is to be trained.
4.	Training
The Joint Miner Training Committee shall give direction to the following:
a)	providing trainees with practical on the job training and related instiuction in appropriate surroundings as aic lequiied through the methods and modules that arc developed for each skill.
b)	pioviding incumbent employees accepted foi job vacancies with eithei training and insti notion as rcquiicd 01 the opportunity to demonstrate theii ability oil the job by the testing pioccss. (1 990)
c)	the periods cf time to be spent at each phase of training to allow each employee a reasonable amount of time to successfully complete and demonstrate his qualifications, including situations where an employee fails the examination.
d)	providing miners with the opportunity to qualify foi additional skills appropriate to the needs of the Mine.
5.	Failure lo Maintain Satisfactory Performance
Employees of the Mine who post foi a job and who fail to complete the tiaiming modulc(s) tot the job will be retained in their department in the job classification held by them at the time of entering the training and be paid the appiopriate rate cf pay applicable thereto.
52
6.	Determination of Number of Trainees
a)	The determination of the number tf Irainees in any given skill or job shall be determined by the Company subject to the Training Program methods and procedures as herein provided.
b)	The Company agrees to fill all projected Mine complement expansions or vacancies as a result of predictable attrition through the Miner Training Program.
c)	The number of trainees scheduled to attend appropriate instruction and training at any one time, shall be determined by the Company.
7.	Rates of Pay
Unless otherwise specifically stipulated, rates of pay shall be in accordance with Article 14 - Rates of Pay. Employees in training outside their posted job will receive their posted rate while in the classroom and during demonstrated ability testing. Employees awarded postings will maintain their old rate (higher or lower) until they have been qualified by the testing process. (1990)
8.	Training Allowance
In the event that training requires attendance at a location other than the Mine site the provisions cf the Collective Agreement shall continue to apply and any special needs shall be arranged by agreement of the parties. (1988)
22.02	MAINTENANCE TRAINING PROGRAM Preamble
The parlies recognize the importance and value cf ensuring that Maintenance Department employees have a thorough knowledge of methods, practices and skills cf their trades in order to meet the
53
needs of Industry and to acquire the appropriate certificates c£ qualification or recognition available through the Ministry of Colleges and Universities, or as may otherwise be recognized by the parties if not designated or regulated officially.
The Company agrees to enter into an Apprentice ship Maintenance Training Program to qualify present and future employees in the trades appropriate to the Goderich Mine requirements and thereby provide the opportunity of Ministry of Colleges and Universities Certification.
1. Purpose
The Maintenance Training Program is to qualify present and future Maintenance Department employees with a Certificate ol Apprenticeship and a Certificate of Qualification in the following trades:
Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic (Regulated)
Industrial Mechanic — Millwright (Regulated)
Construction and Maintenance Electrician (Regulated)
2.	Educational Qualifications
a)	An employee applying for apprenticeship training must have a minimum of Grade 10 standing in an Ontario School or an equivalent level of education.
b)	Acceptance into tine Maintenance Training Program shall be conditional upon the employee satisfying the requirements established by the Ministry cf Colleges arid Universities far entry into the trade.
c)	Employees who are certified and/or practicing as a Group 1 Journeyman at the Mine, are not eligible fot this program.
54
3.	Training
a)	Training and instruction will consist cf practical on-the-job training and coupled with related instruction at a College cf Applied Arts and Technology.
b)	The apprentice will be required to complete the necessary periods of training and instruction as set out in the regulations for the trade in question.
c)	The periods of time to be spent at a College cf Applied Arts and Technology shall be determined by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities.
4.	Training Allowance
a)	When an apprentice attends courses at a College of Applied Aits and Technology, tuition fees, living allowance and ti avel expenses are paid by the Federal Department of Employment and Immigration und the Ontario Ministry of Colleges arid Universities under a shared cod arrangement.
b)	When an apprentice is required to attend at it College of Applied Arts and Technology, the Company will consider those hours which the apprentice attends school as hours worked for the purposes of this Agreement. It is understood that the maximum number of hours so considered will be forty (40) hours in a week and payment will be at the rate of pay of the group to which he is assigned at the time in question. Where an employee is absent from school on a day on which he is required to attend, he shall not be entitled to receive pay from the Company for such day.
c)	Where an apprentice fails the examination administered by the College of Applied
55
Arts and Technology and repeats same, he shall not be paid by the Company far time lost from work.
d)	When an apprentice successfully completes the Maintenance Training Program and furnishes proof that he qualifies for a Certificate of Apprenticeship and a Certificate c£ Qualification, he shall be paid the full rate for the trade classification effective from the beginning cf the pay period immediately following the completion cf the prescribed hours of training and instruction established for him by the Ministry cf Colleges and Universities.
5.	Failure to Maintain Satisfactory Performance
Employees entering the Maintenance Training Program who have completed their probationary period and who fail to maintain a satisfactory level of performance or request to be removed from the program will, if maintained in employment, be assigned to the job classification of Labourer and paid the appropriate rate.
6.	Determination of Number of Apprentices
a)	The determination of the number of apprentices in any given Trade shall be determined by the Company. Subject to the appropriate Government Regulations and as horein provided the Company agrees to fill all projected Trade complement expansions or vacancies as a result cf predictable attrition through the Maintenance Training Program up lo a maximum cf four (4) at any one time.
b)	The number of apprentices allowed to attend a College of Applied Arts and Technology at any one time, shall be determined by the Company.
56
c)	All apprentices shall be registered under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmens’ Qualifications Act of the Government of Ontario.
7. Rates of Pay
Rates cf pay shall be in accordance with the following Schedule cf Training. The initial assignment to the appropriate group shall bo on the basis cf the employee’s qualifications as determined by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities.
SCHEDULE OF TRAINING
0%- 25% of Hours —
60% of Group I Maintenance Rate 25% - 50% of Hours -
70% of Croup I Maintenance Kate 50% - 75% of Hours and successful completion of first term schooling
80% cf Group 1 Maintenance Kate 75% - 100% of Hours and successful completion of second term schooling
90% cf Croup I Maintenance Rate 100% of Hours and successful completion of third term schooling and Journeyman exam
100% of Group I Maintenance Rate
Employees in the program must complete both the classroom instruction and complement of hours before moving to the next section of the pay scale. Employees who are unable to progress with both classroom and hands on training will be removed from the program in accordance with Part 5 of Article 22.02. Where the schooling is unavailable within ti three hour driving radius, and the employee
57
has completed the complement of hours appropriate to a given section of the pay scale, he shall be moved to the next level of the pay scale with the understanding that he musl complete the classroom training within a twelve (12) month period. (1990)
8. Training Committee
The Trades Training Committee will evaluate and give direction to the right to remain in the program for those who fail to maintain a satisfactory level of performance.
22.03 Recognition of Skills
Incumbent Maintenance Group i employees who wish to acquire recognition of their skills and who can satisfy the requirements of the Ministry of Colleges and Universities will be assisted by the Company through the provisions of the necessary documentation and technical guidance, whore applicable.
\,
f\
ARTICLE 23
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
23.01	This Agreement shall become effective as of the 1st day of April, 1990 and shall remain in full force and effect until the 31st day of March, 1992 and from year to year thereafter unless eithei party gives notice to the othei party of an intent to terminate or amend this Agreement.
Such notice shall be given in writing not earlier than ninety (90) days, and at least thirty (30) days before the expiry date of this Agreement oi the anniversary date of any subsequent period in which this Agreement remains in effect.
23.02	The initial meeting for the purpose cf negotiating a modified Agreement shall be held within thirty (30) days after the above notice is given. Pending
58
negotiations cf any proposed modifications in the tcims of this Agreement, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
23.03	Unless specifically designated otherwise, all the terms and conditions cf employment, as set forth in this Agreement, shall become effective on the ratification cf this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Union have caused these presents to be executed by their duly authorized representative.
59
SIFTO CANADA INC.
GODERICH MINE, GODERICH, ONTARIO
Pat Thomson AI Hamilton Don Dickie Dave Bray Don Mclnnes Graham Brown
ENERGY AND CHEMICAL WORKERS' UNION LOCAL 16
Bryan van Rassel Harvey Charron Lionel Carter Dave Rodger Colin Chisholm Bill Vincent Guy Robinson
Signed this 16th day of May, 1990
60
SCHEDULE “A”
Rates of Pay
JOB CLASSIFICATION
MINING DEPARTMENT GROUP I
Face Loader Operator . . Mechanical Scaler Operator Diamond Drill Operator Truck Operator Face Scaler
GROUP 2
Jumbo Drill Operator Undercuttcr Operator Blaster..........
GROUP 3
Front End Loader-Operator 2nd . .
Grader Operator
Mill Operator	. .
Skip Tender . .
Roof Bolt Operator
Baekchcckcr .........
Drill Moulded
Undcrcutter Operator Bulldozer Operator Clean up Crew ...	.
Ventilation Crew .	.	.
Material Handling Crew . .
GHOUL’ 4
Trench Man ........
Primary Crusher Operatoi Small Drill Operator Bit Grinder
April 1
1990
$17.86 $17.86 $1 ’7.86 $17.86 $17.86
$17.66
$17.66
$17.66
$17.42
$17.42
$17.42
$17.42
$17.42
$17.42
$17.42
$17.42
$17.42
$17.42
$17.42
$17.19
$17.19
$17.19
$1’7.19
61
April I
1991
$18.80
$18.80
$18.80
$18.80
$18.80
$18.60
$18.60
$18.60
$18.36
$18.36
$18.36
$18.36
$18.36
$18.36
$18.36
$18.36
$18.36
$18.36
$18.36
$18.13
$18.13
$18.13
$18.13
April 1 April 1
JOB CLASSIFICATION	1990	1991
Mill Helper ................ $17.19
Labourer ................... $17.05
Probationary Labourer....... $16.39
MILLING & SHIPPING DEPARTMENT
Shipper .................. $17.54
Mill Operator ............ $17.54
Vehicle Operator ......... $17.42
Mill Helper .............. $17.19
Machine Operator ......... $17.19
Warehouseman ............. $16.95
Probationary Labourer .... $16.39
$18.13
$17.99
$17.33
$18.48
$18.48
$18.36
$18.13
$18.13
$17.89
$17.33
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Leadhand................. $19.95	$20.89
Group I.................. $19.19	$20.13
Hoistman................. $19.19	$20.13
Labourer ................ $17.05	$17.99
Probationary Labourer ....$16.39	$17.33
NOTE:
1.	Third man on the rail loading crew will be paid vehicle operator rate.
2.	No. 1 and No. 3 hoists will be operated by a posted hoistman.
3.	The probationary maintenance rate will be $0.25/hour below the classified job rate, during the probationary period.
4.	Job vacancies in the job classification Face Scala will not be posted.
62
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
SIFTO CANADA INC. GODERICH MINE
And
ENERGY AND CHEMICAL WORKERS’ UNION LOCAL 16
63
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1 OPTIONAL LIFE INSURANCE AND A.D.&D. COVERAGE
The Company will provide Optional Life Insurance and AD&D Coverage of $5,000 with the premium cost lo bo 100% paid by the participating employees subject to the following conditions:
1.	Optional Coverage is available for both life Insurance and AD&D. Separate coverage is not available.
2.	Selection of Optional Coverage must be made prior to October 25, 1985, by all employees on the payroll September 16th, 1985.
3.	Optional Coverage will commence November 1, 1985, for all employees actively at work. Employees not actively at work who have notified the Company prior to October 25, 1985, that they wished the Optional Coverage will be eligible foi the Optional Coverage upon their return to work.
4.	Now employees will be required to notify the Company if they wish the optional coverage at the time they arc eligible for Group Insurance Benefits.
5.	This Optional Coverage is provided at the employee’s expense for the benefit cf the employee and docs not form part of the retiree benefit plan.
64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
COPIES OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
The Company will provide enough copies cf the Collective Agreement to the Local Union for distribution to Local 16 Bargaining Unit employees. The Company will also supply enough copies for the Union to distribute to New Bargaining Unit employees of ECWU Local 16.
The Collective Agreements will be printed in a unionized printing shop and the cost of the printing will be shared equally by the Company and the Union.
65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
ROOF BOLTING PRACTICE
A woi king face will not be loaded until the fourth round from the face has been bolted.
In the event of equipment failure it shall be permissible to take one (1) more round from the face.
Notwithstanding the above, bolting needs in test areas will be assessed through proper engineering practices. Upon successful completion of these evaluations, bolting practices will be applied based on the test area results.
Headings made with a Continuous Miner may not require bolting. However, ground support will be done on an as necessary basis to handle any unusual ground conditions encountered.
NOTE: This letter is subject to review by the Health and Safety Committee during: the term of Agreement. (1990)
66
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
COMMUNICATIONS
Telephones will be made available at the underground portable substations located in the area cf the active working faces.
These will be in addition to the telephones presently in service underground.
NOTE: This Letter is subject to review by the Health and Safety Committee during the term of Agreement. (1988)
67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5 TRANSFERRING, OR FILLING OF VACANCIES WITHIN GROUP I MAINTENANCE
A maintenance Gioup I employee who qualifies foi movement within Group I maintenance unde) the Maintenance lob Standards and wishes to fill a vacancy fur which he is not currently certified may be required by the Company to verify his knowledge and ability for the specifically different areas of the job requirements thiough an evaluation system, consisting of demonstiated ability and vcibal responses. (1990)
An evaluation system developed by the Joint Apprenticeship and Trades Training Committee based on the related Job Standards will be used to assess the applicant.
68
UTTER OF UNDERSTANDING #6 EEADHANDS
The Parties agree to establish Leadhands for temporary periods in the Mining, Milling and Shipping Departments to provide relief for the vacations and training of Foreman as well as for special assignments or tasks that may arise from time to time. Such assignments of Bargaining Unit employees will be discussed by the parties who will determine the occasions on which they will be used, the method(s) of selection and the duration of the assignments. Leadhands so assigned will be subject to the conditions of Article 18.04 and the duties, functions will generally include:
a)	Co-ordinating the work to be performed including organizing the proper tools and equipment and the methods Lo be used.
b)	Explaining the tasks and objectives to the fellow workers, evaluating the pi-ogress and quality ot the work arid to generally provide leadership.
c)	Complete lime sheets and any necessary reports arising from the work.
d)	Carry out other tasks assigned by the Foreman, (i.c.) transportation of men and equipment, employee checks, air quality checks, et cetera.
The Lcadhand Rate or Pay shall be that of the highest ranking job in the group being fed, plus it premium equal to the differential between the Maintenance Department Lcadhand and Maintenance Department, Group I.
69
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #7
VACATION SCHEDULE
GENERAL:
Vacation requests received during the first twenty (20) days cf January will be assigned on the basis cf seniority where practicable.
Those persons whose requests arc received during the first twenty (20) days cf January and whose vacations cannot be practicably assigned to conform to the requests will be so notified and those employees must submit an alternative vacation choice in the period from January 21st to January 31st inclusive.
Those employees who have not resubmitted requests on, or before January 31st will have their vacation assigned
on the same basis as those submissions received after January 31st, i.e. February 1st to March 15th, first come, first served; March 16th forward the Company reserves tire right io schedule at its discretion.
Vacations to commence on, or before March 15th arc to be scheduled by December 1st of the previous year.
The continuation of vacation from the end of one vacation year in to the beginning cf the next vacation year will be allowed provided that the total number of employees on vacation is not in excess of the total number allowed in each grouping. The number of employees that may exercise this continuous provision is as follows:
two (2) per shift from Underground Production two (2) from Surface Warehousing and Shipping two (2) from Underground Maintenance (Mobile).
All other groups will be considered on the basis of need at the time.
70
It is understood that Article 16.08 shall cover the implementation of all vacation scheduling except extension of the vacation year as required for the continuation described above.
Effective January 1, 1985, the maximum number of employees that may be scheduled off are as follows:
Underground Prodoction
—	six (6) per shift, total of twenty-four
Surface Warehouse and Shipping
—	sevon (7)
Underground Maintenance
—	six (6) total. Normal composition will he a maximum of four (4) from the mobile shop including mechanics on shift and a maximum of one (1) from the mill department including millwrights on shift, plus one additional employee from cither of the two groups on the basis <± seniority. (1990)
Surface Maintenance
—	two (2)
Electrical Department
■— one (1)
These maximums may be increased by mutual agreement cf the parties.
71
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #8 SHORT TERM MINE SHUT DOWN
The Company and the Union agree that the following is the procedure to be followed in the event of a SHORT TERM MINE SHUTDOWN, which is not related to Business, Sales or Shipping requirements.
a)	In the event cf a Planned Mine Shutdown of eight (8) hours or loss, the weekly schedule ot one (1) or more shifts will be adjusted to accommodate time lost as a result cf the shutdown, by operating on an open shift that week.
b)	In the event of a Planned Mine Shutdown of eight (8) hours to twenty-four (24) hours duration, or an unplanned mine shut clown of twcnty-foiu (24) hours or less, any employee not required at work will he laid off for the shift that they are scheduled to work for the duration of the shutdown. Where a senior employee works short time as a result of these situations, the lost time will be subtracted from the overtime records.
This procedure does not apply to employees who are already at work oi employees who were not notified prior to the commencement of their shift not to report io work. In these cases the provision of Clause 13.12 of the Collective Agreement shall apply. (1988)
72
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #9 TEMPORARY VACANCIES AND JOB QUALIFICATIONS
The following Letter of Understanding applies to the Mining Department only, unless otherwise indicated. As the following represents a new system that is being tried, and all circumstances cannot be foreseen, both parties reserve the right to bring forward amendments at any lime for discussion and review by Ihe other party. If a satisfactory resolution is not reached, the previous system cf filling temporary vacancies will be reverted to.
The implementation of the points listed as Part B -Job Qualification System will he determined at a later date, once the Miner Training Committee has addressed the issues raised by the Job Qualifications System.
Part A
Temporary Vacancy System
I.	Employees will be allowed by seniority to fill temporary vacancies, which cover the complete work weeks.
'I'he Labour Group shall normally be used to fill vacancies of less than one (1) work week. Lor example, if there is a ten (10) clay vacancy starting on the second working day, a labourer fills in during the first week, the second week is filled through the Temporary Vacancy System, and a labourer fills in for the remainder of Ihe vacancy during the third week. In cases of vacancies of undetermined length, the information that is provided to Management shall be used to fill the job.
The temporary vacancy roster for any given week will be completed by a predetermined time in the preceding week. Employees already committed on the roster will not be permitted to make changes.
73
The Supervisor will use labourers and/or the preferred list to fill temporary vacancies arising after that date. If the position cannot be filled using the above procedure, the Supervisor will designate an employee to fill the postition(s).
2.	Employees will indicate their preferencc(s) in order of priority in writing for a maximum of three (3) classifications they would like to fill in for on a temporary basis. Employees can change their preference(s) by advising the forman in writing on the form provided. When an employee changes his preference(s), the revised form must he given to his Supervisor by Monday lo he eligible for vacancies that occur one week from that Monday.
When a temporary opening becomes available the foreman will assign the job by seniority for a one (1) week period, based on the preferences that employees have indicated. The foreman will exhaust the senior employee's three (3) preferences first, before going on to the next senior employee's first choice and so on.
With the exception of miscellaneous crew vacancies, an employee will be limited to vacancies occurring on his shift. An employee will only be assigned lo a vacancy if there is a qualified replacement available on his shift to fill his position. Once an employee has been assigned to a temporary vacancy, he will not be entitled to change to another opening until the one (1) week assignment has been completed.
Note:	Miscellaneous crews will be tied to a shift for
the purposes of this Letter of Understanding, and will exercise their temporary job fill-in options on that shift. Miscellaneous crew jobs
74
will be open for temporary job fill-in, to all employees in the mining department.
Regardless cf the length of the temporary vacancy, the employees will be assigned on a one (1) week basis. At the end cf that period the foreman will reassign, if the vacancy continuos for another full week.
Tcmpoi ary vacancies of less than one (1) week will normally be filled by labourers.
This Tetter cf Understanding does not impact on the employees being assigned to the surface.
The number of moves on a shift will not be limited at this time, however it will be monitored and reviewed if necessary.
3.	Fot vacancies involving an extensive period cf absence, the parties will continue to review each case on an individual basis, and determine the best procedure to fill the vacancy.
Part B
Job Qualifications System
1.	The Job Qualification list will be updated monthly.
The Job Qualification list will be posted in the area cf the punch clock.
The Job Qualification list will include those trained and tested, or tested by demonstrating their ability on a job classification.
It is the employee’s responsibility to report any errors in the list to the Personnel Superintendent.
A schedule will be established within 3 months from the signing of this Agreement, to determine when this list will be the only infoimation used to fill temporary vacancies
75
and temporary openings. The latter refers to, for example, a vacant job that needs to be temporarily filled.
Note:	A statement of qualification will be developed
for distribution to employees once qualified on each job.
2.	Until that lime when the Job Qualification f.ist is the only information used to fill temporary vacancies and temporary openings, employees will be able to demonstrate their ability on jobs they arc considered capable of performing. The methods used to administer demonstrated ability testing and the numbers of employees allowed to demonstrate their ability will be agreed upon by the Miner Training Committee.
The Company cannot commit to keeping an employee qualified on all cf the jobs that he is able to demonstrate his ability on. It is the responsibility of the employee to maintain his qualifications through his selection of preferences.
Senior employees will be trained and tested first, except where an employee has to be trained and tested when he is posting onto a new position.
Note:	It is agreed that a moratorium will be esta-
blished on training out of seniority (with the exception of the Common Core) until the JQL is established as the only information that will be used to fill vacancies and temporary openings. Once this point is reached the parties will review training requirements at the mine.
Once an employee has completed classroom and hands on training with a posted operator, equipment will be designated for training with the purpose of allowing the employee time
76
to refine his skills on the job. This period of lime will he determined by the miner training committee, but will not exceed five (5) shifts. Employees who arc displaced through this training will fall to the labour group and exercise their seniority within that group.
3.	All mining (and underground maintenance) department employees will receive training in the Common Core. Newly hired employees will obtain the Common Core training within the time frame specified by the Ontario Occupational Health and Safety Act. Surface maintenance will receive as a minimum a revised version of the Common Core. A revised version of 1he Common Core is to be developed by the Miner Training Committee.
4.	All employees at the Mine will receive training when required to decrease the likelihood of boing laid off out of seniority, for a layoff of more than five (5) days. The amount of training possible will be determined by the severity of the layoff, and will not necessarily be for the job classification the employee would prefer to be trained in. For a planned layoff cf more than five (5) days, training will be done to ensure senior employees are not laid off out of seniority due to lack of qualifications. For an unplanned layoff training will start as soon as it is known that the layoff will be more than five (5) days.
5.	By seniority all employees (in the Mining Department) will list throe (3) jobs they would like to receive training for, in order of preference. Employees will he asked by seniority if they want to receive training for the job classifications in the order that the training becomes available. These employees will be trained when regular training is in progress. Training will continue to be on an as needed basis, depending upon budget, and requirements.
77
6.	The following will apply once:
a)	the Job Qualification List is the only information used to fill temporary vacancies and openings, and
b)	a system is implemented to track the last date an employee performed a given job:
Once an employee is qualified on a job by demonstrating his ability, he will be able to fill temporary openings on that job as outlined in Part A - Item 2, for a period of two (2) years. If he docs not exercise this option, during the two (2) years, he will no longer be eligible for short term relief. However, in the event of a layoff during the period from two (2) to five (5) years the Company will allow the employee to demonstrate his ability on the job, if there is not another job available for which he is qualified. Once the employee has gone five (5) years without doing the job, the employee would fall into the same category as non-mining employees outlined in Part B - Item 4.
An employee will lose his qualifications if he has not temporarily filled in on some job classifications for a period shorter than two (2) years. Tho job classifications involved, and the period cf time, will be mutually agreed by the parties. (1990)
78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #10 BUMPING RIGHTS
ft is recognized that from time to lime, significant schedule changes will be required that may result in temporary layoffs and/or temporary elimination of a posting. Example: Volume variation during the winter causing layoff and/or a variation of the normal seven day schedule to a five or modified five/seven day schedule. If the temporary layoff or temporary elimination of a posting lasts more than five (5) days, Article
6.03	b) (ii) shall be determined as follows:
Part I: Layoff
a)	The Company shall prepare a list indicating the number cf employees required in each job classification on each shift.
I>) Each employee displaced by the layoff or posting elimination will be given, in order of seniority, the option to bump the most junior employee in any classification on any shifl in the department provided the employee exercising this option has the qualifications, the physical capabilities and the ability to perform the job in accordance with Company standards.
c)	Senior employees displaced by the layoff or posting elimination who are unable to exercise their seniority rights under b) above can exercise their seniority rights under Article
6.02	in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments.
d)	Following the bumping procedure the shifts may have 1o be balanced by transferring the most junior omployee(s) from the shifts that have the excess.
c) IF the junior cmployce(s) referred to in d) above is not qualified as provided in Article
6.02	io fill the job vacancy, he will exercise his seniority rights under Article 6.02 in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments.
79
f)	Once steps a) through e) have been completed, t o bumping will be permitted until the next layoff, recall or next posting elimination except as specified in Article 6.03 c).
Part II: Recall
a)	The company shall prepare a list indicating the number of employees required in each job classification on each shift.
b)	An employee displaced through Part I of this letter shall:
i)	When full schedule is immediately resumed, return to the posting held prior to his displacement.
ii)	During a partial recall or partial return to full schedule, of a duration of 14 calendar clays or less, move to the posting held prior to his displacement.
iii)	During a partial recall or partial return to full schedule, of a duration exceeding 14 calendar days, be offered the vacancy or vacancies available provided the employee exercising this option has the qualifications, the phyical capabilities arid the ability to perform the job in accordance with Company standards.
c)	Senior employees affected by the recall who are unable to exercise their seniority rights under (b) iii, above can exercise their seniority rights under Article 6.02 in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments.
d)	Following the bumping procedure the shifts may have to be balanced by transferring the most junior employeefs) from the shifts that have the excess.
80
e)	Tf the junior employee(s) referred to in d) above is not qualified as provided in Article
6.02	to fill the job vacancy, lie will exercise his seniority rights under Article 6.02 in all jobs, on all shifts, in all departments.
f)	Once steps a) through c) have been completed, no bumping will be permitted until the next layoff, recall or next posting elimination except as specified in Article 6.03 c). (1990)
81
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #11 PRODUCTIVITY
IMPROVEMENT/RELATED LAYOFFS
The Company and Union have agreed to establish a produoticity committee composed of three (3) Company and three (3) Union representatives. Further, the parties recognize Chat productivity improvements resulting from the work cf the productivity committee will have the potential to reduce the number of employees required to work at the mine.
To address this concern, and recognizing that the work of the productivity committee may dovetail with management initiatives, the company agrees that no layoffs will occur as a result of any productivity related improvements which are implemented either through the productivity committee, or by management. This guarantee will apply only to those employees on the seniority list on the date this letter is signed by Company and Union representatives.
Layoffs resulting from volume variation or production interruptions are excluded from this letter of understanding, and will be handled through the provisions contained in the Collective Agreement. Further, employees can still be terminated by the Company, subject to the Union's right to grieve any dismissal.
This letter limits Article 3.01 (f) of the Collective Agreement insofar as any workforce reductions resulting from technical or process improvements must be handled through attrition rather than layoff. (1990)
82
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #12
SPECIAL EVENTS
The parties agree that, where mutually agreed to through the negotiating committee, the shift schedule cf some or all employees can be altered to accommodate special events. Employees will be paid shift, undergtound and weekend premium applicable to the shift that, would have normally been worked. No overtime premium or call out pay will be applicable to employees whose shift is changed during the first eight hours worked on this shift, except as outlined in Article 13.05 (a). (1990)
83
SIFTO CANADA INC. GODERICH MINE SENIORITY LIST AS OF MAY 15tli, 1990
THIS LIST IS FOR QUICK INFORMAL REFERENCE AND IS NOT AN OFFICIAL SENIORITY LIST
ABBREVIATIONS P - PRODUCTION S- SHIPPING M - MAINTENANCE J - JANITOR
84
No. Name	Department:		Seniority Date
1		M	Sep 7, 1959
2	S		vSep 14, 1959
3	S		Sep 21, 1959
4		M	Sep 22, 1959
5		M	Sep 22, 1959
6		M	Oct 21, 1959
7	s		Nov 6, 1959
8	s		Jan 15, 1960
9		M	Feb 20, 1960
10	s		Jul 26, 1960
11	s		Jul 27, 1960
12	s		Jul 28, 1960
13	s		Jul 29, 1960
14	s		Aug 4, 1960
15	s		Jul 7, 1961
16		M	Jill 8, 1961
17	s		Jul 8, 1961
18	s		Aug 15, 1961
19	s		Aug 16, 1961
20	s		Sep 4, 1961
21	s		Jun 6, 1962
22		M	Jun 11, 1962
23	s		Aug 17, 1962
24		M	Sop 4, 1962
25	s		Sep 25, 1962
26	p		Oct 3, 1962
27	s		Nov 29, 1962
28	s		Mar 25, 1964
29	s		Nov 23, 1964
30		M	Apr 12, 1965
31	s		Jun 29, 1965
32	p		Sep 26, 1966
85
No. Name	Department			Seniority Date
33			M	Sep 27, 1966
34		S		Sep 29, 1966
35		s		Oct 25, 1966
36		s		Oot 25, 1966
37			M	Jan 23, 1967
38		s		May 15, 1967
39	P			Sep 18, 1967
40	P			Apr 29, 1968
41	P			Apr 30, 1968
42	P			Jul 25, 1968
43	P			Jul 26, 1968
44			M	Jul 28, 1968
45		J		Jul 29, 1968
46	1			Jul 31, 1968
47		s		Aug 23, 1968
48			M	Oct 7, 1968
49	P			Nov 6, 1968
50			M	Nov 16, 1968
51			M	Jul 21, 1969
52	P			Aug 25, 1969
53	P			Sep 8, 1969
54	P			Nov 29, 1969
55		s		Apr 13, 1970
56		s		Apr 17, 1972
57			M	May 15, 1972
58	f			Sep 12, 1973
59	P			Sep 24, 1973
60	P			Oot 15, 1973
61			M	Oct 15, 1973
62			M	Oct 15, 1973
63			M	Jan 29, 1974
64			M	May 30, 1974
86
No. Name	Department			Seniority Date
65			M	Jun 17, 1974
66	P			Jun 17, 1974
67			M	Jul 4, 1974
68	P			Jul 15, 1974
69	P			Nov 11, 1974
70	P			Nov 16, 1974
71			M	Dec 2, 1974
72		s		Mar 3, 1975
73	P			Mar 3, 1975
74		j		Mar 3, 1975
75			M	Mar 17, 1975
76	P			Mar 24, 1975
77	P			Apr 8, 1975
78		j		Aug 6, 1975
79		s		Aug 9, 1975
80			M	Aug 18, 1975
81		s		Sep 2, 1975
82	P			Sep 6, 1975
83	P			Sep 25, 1975
84	I			Sep 26, 1975
85	P			Sep 30, 1975
86	P			Oct 6, 1975
87	P			Oct 6, 1975
88	P			Oct 28, 1975
89	r			Nov 6, 1975
90	p			Nov 19, 1975
91	p			Aug 23, 1976
92	p			Aug 23, 1976
93	p			Aug 26, 1976
94	p			Sep 6, 1976
95	p			Sep 24, 1976
96	p			Sep 25, 1976
87
No. Name	Department		Seniority Date
97	P		Sep 30, 1976
98		S	Sep 30, 1976
99	P		Nov 23, 1976
100	P		Dec 2, 1976
101	P		Feb 11, 1977
102	P		Jul 28, 1977
103	P		Sep 7, 1977
104	P		Sep 7, 1977
105	P		Sep 10, 1977
106		M	Sep 17, 1977
107	P		Nov 5, 1977
.108	P		Nov 21, 1977
109		M	Apr 17, 1978
no		M	Apr 24, 1978
m	P		Apr 27, 1978
112	P		Apr 29, 1978
113	P		May 4, 1978
114		M	Jul 31, 1978
115		M	Aug 14, 1978
116	P		Sep 5, 1978
117	P		Sep 5, 1978
118		M	Sep 9, 1978
119	P		Sep 16, 1978
120		M	Oct 2, 1978
121	P		Nov 23, 1978
122	P		Nov 25, 1978
123	P		Nov 27, 1978
124		M	Feb 19, 1979
125	P		Apr 9, 1979
126	P		Apr 12, 1979
127	P		Apr 12, 1979
128	P		May 3, 1979
8$
4o. Name	Department		Seniority Date
(29	P		May 7, 1979
130	P		May 8, 1979
(31	P		Jun 21, 1979
(32	P		Aug 18, 1979
133	P		Aug 23, 1979
134	P		Apr 22, 1980
135		M	May 20, 1980
136	P		Jun 18, 1980
137	P		Jim 21, 1980
138	r		Jun 21, 1980
139	p		Jun 24, 1980
140	p		Jul 10, 1980
141	r		Oot 2, 1980
142	p		Oct 6, 1980
143	p		Oct 11, 1980
144	p		Oct 17, 1980
145	p		Oct 22, 1980
146	p		Oct 22, 1980
147	1		Oot 23, 1980
148	p		Oot 23, 1980
149	p		Oot 23, 1980
ISO	p		Oct 27, 1980
151	p		Oot 27, 1980
152	p		Oct 30, 1980
153	p		Aug 10, 1981
154	p		Aug 10, 1981
155	p		Aug 10, 1981
156	p		Aug 10, 1981
157	p		Aug 10, 1981
158		M	Aug 17, 1981
159	p		Aug 17, 1981
160	1		Aug 17, 1981
89
No. Name	Department		Seniority Date
161	P		Aug 17, 1981
162	P		Aug 25, 1981
163	P		Dec 11, 1981
164	P		Feb 9, 1982
165	P		May 31, 1982
166	P		May 31, 1982
167	P		May 31, 1982
168	P		Jun 7, 1982
169	P		Jun 7, 1982
170	P		Jun 7, 1982
171	P		Jun 7, 1982
172	P		Jun 7, 1982
173	P		Jun 14, 1982
174	P		Jun 28, 1982
175	P		Jun 28, 1982
176	P		Jul 5, 1982
177	P		Jill 5, 1982
178	P		Jul 5, 1982
179	P		Jul 19, 1982
180		M	Aug 9, 1982
181		M	Sep 20, 1982
182		M	Sep 20, 1982
183		M	Sep 20, 1982
184		M	Sep 20, 1982
185	P		Jan 24, 1983
186	1		Jan 24, 1983
187	P		Jan 31, 1983
188	P		Jan 31, 1983
189	P		Jan 31, 1983
190		M	Jan 31, 1983
191	P		Jan 31, 1983
192	P		Jan 31, 1983
90
No. Name	Department		Seniority Date
193	P		Jan 31, 1983
194	P		Mar 28, 1983
195	P		Mar 28, 1983
196	P		Mar 28, 1983
197	P		Apr 4, 1983
198	r		Apr 4, 1983
199	p		Apr 4, 1983
200	r		Apr 4, 1983
201	r		Apr 4, 1983
202	p		Jun 6, 1983
203	p		Jua 6, 1983
204	p		Jun 6, 1983
205	F		Jun 6, 1983
206	P		Jun 6, 1983
207	P		Jun 6, 1983
208			Sep 12, 1983
209		M	Sep 12, 1983
210	P		Oot 11, 1983
211	F		Oct 11, 1983
212	F		Oct 31, 1983
213	P		Oot 31, 1983
214		M	Dee 13, 1983
215		M	Feb 27, 1984
216	P		Mar 20, 1984
217	P		Mar 20, 1984
218	P		Mar 20, 1984
219	P		Mar 20, 1984
220	P		Mar 20, 1984
221	F		Mar 20, 1984
222	P		Mar 20, 1984
223	r		Mar 26, 1984
224	p		Mar 26, 1984
9L
no. Name	Department		Seniority Date
225	P		Mar 26, 198^
226	P		Mar 26, 1984
227	P		Mar 26, 1984
228	P		May 28, 1984
229	P		May 28, 1984
230	P		May 28, 1984
231	P		Jun 4, 1984
232	P		lun 4, 1984
233	P		Jun 4, 1984
234	P		Jun 4, 1984
235	P		Jun 4, 1984
236	P		Jun 4, 1984
237	P		Jun 18, 1984
238	P		Jun 18, 1984
239	P		Jun 18, 1984
240	P		Jun 18, 1984
241	1		Jun 18, 1984
242	P		Jun 18, 1984
243		M	Jul 2, 1984
244		M	Nov 4, 1985
245		M	Nov 4, 1985
246		M	May 5, 1986
247		M	Oct 20, 1987
248		M	Mar 1, 1988
249		M	Apr 4, 1988
250		M	Apr 25, 1988
251		M	May 24, 1988
252		M	May 25, 1988
253	P		Aug 2, 1988
254	P		Aug 2, 1.988
255	P		Aug 2, 1988
256	P		Aug 2, 1988
92
'Jo. Name	Department		Seniority Date
157	r		Aug 2, 1988
»58	P		Aug 2, 1988
459	P		Aug 16, 1988
460	P		Aug 16, 1988
461	P		Aug 16, 1988
262	P		Aug 16, 1988
263	P		Aug 16, 1988
264	P		Aug 16, 1988
265		M	Oct 3, 1988
266		M	Nov 14, 1988
267		M	Nov 27, 1989
93