AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
FORACO CANADA LTD. -WESTERN DIVISION
AND
United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union
LOCAL UNION 8646
Effective: June 1, 2013 until May 31, 2016
1
1
2
2
2
3
4
4
5
7
8
8
9
9
10
10
10
11
12
INDEX
Definition and Recognition
Term of Agreement
Management
No Discrimination
Shifts and Working Hours
Overtime
Safety Devices
Statutory Holidays
Grievance & Arbitration Procedure
Group Insurance Plan and Health Coverage
Leave of Absence for Union Business
Wages
Annual Vacation
Bulletin Boards
Union Security
Union Membership
Town site Northern Allowance
Transportation
Promotions, Transfers, Lay-Offs & Rehiring
This Agreement made this 1st day of June, 2013
Between
United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union, LOCAL 8646, Yellowknife, in the Northwest Territories, Canada (hereinafter called “the Union”) party of the first part
And
FORACO CANADA LTD. - WESTERN DIVISION (hereinafter called “the Company”) party of the second part
WHEREAS it is the desire of the Company and the Union to promote and maintain harmonious industrial relations between the Company and its employees.
Now, therefore, this agreement witnesses that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITION AND RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company agrees to recognize and bargain with the Union as the
exclusive bargaining agency for those employees of the Company in the Northwest Territory (NT), working as Runner Foremen, diamond drillers, and driller’s helpers. The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agency for the said employees with respect to rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment.
ARTICLE 2 - TERM OF AGREEMENT
2.01	This agreement shall remain in effect from its effective date, the 1st day of June, 2013 to May 31, 2016.
2.02	Either party may, within a period of three (3) months immediately preceding May 31, 2016, by notice in writing, advise the other party of its intention to commence collective bargaining.
Page 2
ARTICLE 3 -MANAGEMENT
3.01	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities, and to make and vary from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by employees, providing the rules and regulations are not in conflict with the provisions of the agreement.
3.02	Nothing in this Agreement shall oblige the Company continue to carry on operations which it may from time to time decide to discontinue.
3.03	The Company reserves the right to hire, discipline, demote or discharge employees for proper cause.
3.04	The selection of the working bosses and all other supervisory employees shall be entirely a matter for the decision of the Company.
3.05	The Company will furnish monthly to the Union a list showing new hires (including home addresses), transfers, promotions, demotions, layoffs, recalls and terminations of employment during the previous month and the effective dates. Copies of these lists will be forwarded to the Union by the 15th day of the following month. Such lists shall be faxed to the United Steel Workers Edmonton office (780-486-1716).
ARTICLE 4 - DISCRIMINATION
4.01	The Company and the Union agree that there shall be no intimidation or
discrimination because of membership or non-membership in the Union, or because of race, creed, colour, national origin or political beliefs.
ARTICLE 5 -	SHIFTS AND WORKING HOURS
5.01	Hours of Work The operations of the Company shall be deemed to fall into two (2) categories, namely Underground and Surface operations.
Under ground: In all underground operations, eight (8) hours work from collar to collar shall constitute a day’s working shift.
Surface: In all surface operations, eight (8) hours work at the drill site shall constitute a day’s working shift.
5.02	Four Hours Pay
Any employee who reports for work on his regular shift and was not told in advance not to report will be guaranteed four (4) hour’s pay at his regular hourly rate.
Page 3
5.03
5.04
ARTICLE 6 -6.01
6.02
6.03
Also, an employee who commences work and is laid off before completing four (4) hour’s work shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at his basic hourly rate.
Temporary Change of Occupation
An employee shall not refuse to perform work which is outside his classification, but for any such work, he shall be paid a higher rate of pay if the work he performs is of a higher classification than his normal work and shall not, in any event, be paid a lower hourly rate than his standard classification.
Shift Differential
A premium of fifty ($0.50) cents per hour shall be paid to all employees who are working a shift other than the regular day shift.
For the purpose of applying this premium rate, the expression “regular day shift” shall have the meaning attributed to it in accordance with the Company’s present practice.
The Company will pay the above mentioned shift premium as a separate allowance based on the hours worked for those shifts other then the regular day shift.
OVERTIME
In all underground operations, all work performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any single twenty-four (24) hour period or forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) times the basic rate.
In all surface operations, all work performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day or forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) times the basic rate (except when an employee works over eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period due to regular change of shifts).
(a)	One and one-half (11/2) times the basic rate will be paid for all work performed on a Saturday or Sunday regardless of the hours worked or days worked previous to Saturday or Sunday, if such days are scheduled overtime days.
In the case of an employee kept underground after the expiration of the regular shift due to causes over which he has no control, such time shall be considered as hours worked (straight time) if the period exceeds thirty (30) minutes provided that such time shall not be considered as time worked if the cause is beyond the control of the Company.
Page 4
ARTICLE 7 -7.01
ARTICLE 8 -8.01
8.02
SAFETY DEVICES
Safety equipment considered necessary by the Company to protect employees from injury shall be supplied by the Company. The Company to pay one-half (1/2) the cost of underground boots, hard hats and gloves for underground workers. The Company agrees to pay the cost of slickers for those employees working underground who require slickers, providing that when a new set of slickers is required, the employee may be required to produce the set which is being discarded. Second or later issues will not be supplied otherwise than through reasonable wear and tear. The Company to supply at no cost to the employee one degree rule, one crescent wrench and one 9/16” wrench, such tools to remain the property of the Company. Old or worn tools will be turned in for replacement.
The Company will furnish slicker pants and rubber gloves where drill fluid additives or similar solutions are used, if these are required at the discretion of the foreman.
The Company and the employees shall co-operate in matters pertaining to safety.
The Company shall have the right to dismiss for just cause any employee who refuses to wear safety protective equipment or who refuses to abide by the safety rules of the Company or the Company’s clients.
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Work Performed on a Statutory Holiday
Should an employee be required to work on any of the following days, namely:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Christmas Day Canada Day First Monday in August
The employee shall be paid for work so performed at the rate of one and one half (11/2) times his applicable hourly rate.
Qualification for Statutory Holiday (not worked)
Except as hereinafter provided, an employee who does not work on one (1) of the statutory holidays referred to above, shall be paid his applicable hourly rate for eight (8) hours for the day while:
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Boxing Day Aboriginal Day
Page 5
8.03
8.04
ARTICLE 9 -9.01
9.02
(a)	on approved vacation
(b)	on approved leave of absence, including leave on Union business;
(c)	absent through sickness or accident provided that the employee has a Doctor’s certificate to that effect, and
(d)	taking bereavement leave for death in the immediate family (immediate family shall mean: spouse, father, mother, son and daughter).
An employee shall not be paid for a statutory holiday named in Section
8.02	if he is absent from work on his last regularly scheduled shift before, or his first regularly scheduled shift after such holiday, or if he has been assigned or scheduled to work and does not work on such holiday.
The employee shall be paid for statutory holidays if the qualifications noted in Article 8.02 and further provided that the employee has worked at least one (1) shift in the twenty-one (21) days prior to the holiday, and that the employee has worked at least one shift in the twenty-one (21) day period following the holiday.
An employee who qualifies for both the statutory holiday pay (expressed in Sections 8.02 and 8.03) and for pay for performing work on a statutory holiday, shall be entitled to a total of two and one half (21/2) times his applicable rate of pay for eight (8) hours of the day. VIZ: Eight (8) hours straight time pay for qualified statutory holiday plus one and one-half (11/2) times his applicable rate for all hours actually worked on the statutory holiday. If an employee does not meet the qualifications in Sections 8.02 and 8.03, but does work the statutory holiday, he shall then be paid one and one-half (11/2) times his hourly rate of pay only.
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
Complaint
Employees may discuss any complaint with shift bosses or foremen so that it may be settled as quickly as possible. However, should any difference arise between the Company and the Union or any employee or employees concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, the parties shall endeavour to settle such differences without undue delay in the following manner:
Grievance - Stage One
The employee concerned, in person and if he desires, with his shop steward in attendance, shall try to settle the difference with his immediate boss. If the employee has reasonable access to a steward, the grievance shall be taken up with the immediate boss, not more than five (5) days after it has arisen, but if there is no steward reasonably available to the
Page 6
9.03
9.04
9.05
employee, then the grievance shall be raised at the first reasonable opportunity.
Grievance - Stage Two
The Union or the employee concerned, accompanied by his steward, if an employee desires, may submit the dispute to the Yellowknife Manager of the Company and the submission and the decision at this Stage will be in writing.
Failing satisfactory settlement of the grievance within seven (7) days, the matter may be referred to arbitration within twenty-one (21) additional days as herein provided.
Difference between Company and Union
If a difference arises between the Union and the Company concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement or the discharge of an employee, then the matter may be taken up between the Union and the management of the Company at Stage Two.
Failing satisfactory agreement, either party may notify the other in writing within twenty-one (21) days that it desires to refer the matter to arbitration and an arbitrator shall then be selected as set forth below and the difference shall be submitted in writing to the Arbitrator and the Arbitrator’s decision shall be confined to determining the issues therein set out and shall be final and binding upon the parties.
Stage Three - Procedure for Settling Disputes
Failing a satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days after the dispute was submitted under Stage Two, the Union may, upon giving seven (7) days notice in writing to the Company of their intention, refer the dispute to arbitration. Within ten (10) days following receipt of such notice, the Company and the Union will mutually select an Arbitrator.
It the parties cannot mutually agree upon an Arbitrator within ten (10) days, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour of Canada upon request of either party.
The decision of the Arbitrator with respect to an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement shall be final and binding upon the parties, but in no event shall the Arbitrator have the power to alter, modify or amend this agreement in any respect. The parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the arbitrator.
A written record of the grievance presented at Stage Two and the decision of that Stage will be presented to the Arbitrator, and the Arbitrator’s decision shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
Page 7
9.06
ARTICLE 10 -10.01
10.02
When making his decision, the Arbitrator shall state whether the decision is retroactive and effective date thereof, but the decision shall not be made retroactive to a time prior to the date of this agreement and there shall be no award of costs of arbitration to either party.
Saturdays, Sundays, and Statutory Holidays shall not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken in each stage of the grievance procedure.
Stewards
(a)	Stewards chosen by the Union must be employees of the Company. The duties of the stewards shall be to receive, investigate and endeavour to settle grievances as outlined in this Article.
(b)	There shall be a grievance committee consisting of not more than five (5) stewards.
c)	The Union agrees to notify the Company in writing of the names of the stewards and the names of the Grievance Committee, and of any changes which may be made from time to time. The Company shall not be required to recognize the stewards of the grievance committee until it has been notified in writing by the Union, the names of the persons selected.
(d) Authorized time spent in investigating and settling disputes by employees delegated by stewards shall be considered as time worked and payment shall be on the basis of straight time, under no conditions shall overtime be paid. The time to be paid for shall be limited to five (5) hours per month.
GROUP INSURANCE PLAN
The Company shall provide Group Insurance coverage to employees in accordance with the plan or plans in effect during the length of this agreement. The cost of the employee’s group insurance plan and benefits shall be paid 100% by the Company.
All Employees shall receive a Group Benefits Plan Booklet upon hire or by request. The Union shall receive a Group Benefits Plan Booklet annually (June 1st) or upon amendment to the plan(s). The Company has the option to modify the Group Benefits Plan from time-to-time to maintain continuity between all branches of Foraco Canada Ltd.
ARTICLE 11 -	Page 8 LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS
11.01	Any employee selected as a delegate or representative of the Union, necessitating leave of absence, upon proper application to the Company, shall be granted such leave of absence without pay, provided it does not exceed a period of one (1) year.
11.02	Time spent as a delegate or representative of the Union shall not in any way jeopardize his seniority, but shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining vacation.
11.03	The Company shall not be required to grant the privilege, under this Article, to more than one (1) person at the same time.
11.04	Section 11.02 and 11.03 shall not apply to delegates actually attending a labour convention, labour arbitration’s, labour contract negotiations or grievance matters set forth in this agreement.
11.05	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article to the contrary, the Company shall not be obliged to grant leave of absence to more than one (1) employee during any calendar year for the purpose of attending a labour convention.
ARTICLE 12 -	WAGES
12.01	The scale of wages in effect during the life of this Agreement for Underground and Surface Drillers shall be as follows: Effective the signing date of this Agreement Underground & Surface Runner Foreman - $29.50 per hour Senior Driller - $29.00 per hour Junior Driller - $26.00 per hour Helper (shop) - $21.00 per hour A runner foreman shall receive a minimum of one (1) hours pay at his applicable rate (straight time) over and above his shift hours. A Senior Driller is defined as an employee with certain qualities, competencies and abilities which shall be considered by the Company when assigning the higher wage rate. The Company shall have the final say in determining Senior Driller status and has the right to demote a “Senior Driller” to “Junior Driller” for cause or as otherwise subject to Article 19.01.
Page 9
ARTICLE 13 -
13.01
13.02
13.03
13.04
ARTICLE 14 -14.01
Such determination and selection of an employee being moved to “Senior Driller” status will be done by the Company in a manner which is fair, equitable and not arbitrary, subject to Article 19.01.
Should a dispute arise over the selection or placement of an employee to “Senior Driller” the Company and Union agree to discuss the rationale of such selection or placement.
The Union reserves the right to file a grievance on any matter pertaining to the selection of an employee for “Senior Driller”.
ANNUAL VACATION
The vacation year will be from January 1st through December 31st of each year, inclusive. Eligibility for vacation time off and for pay will be determined by the employee’s continuous service with the Company and his anniversary (hire) date.
Any employee on the payroll during the current vacation year, and who has the length of continuous service specified in the table below, shall be entitled to the corresponding vacation with pay:
Up to 12 months service	1 week	- 5%
12 months but less than 18 months service	2 weeks	- 6%
18 months but less than 24 months service	3 weeks	- 7%
24 months to 10 years service	4 weeks	- 8%
10 years & over service	5 weeks	- 10%
20 years & over service	6 weeks	- 12%
Vacation pay will be calculated up to the day he leaves on vacation, and said pay will be based on total earnings. Vacation pay earned but not paid at the end of the vacation year will be paid to the employee at the end of the vacation year (December).
The Company will be the final judge of vacation time, but vacations will be granted as closely as practicable to the time requested by the employee. When requested by the employee, in writing and when practicable, one (1) week extra vacation may be granted without pay, provided it is taken along with his regular approved vacation. Vacations or the non-regular vacations and the one (1) week extra vacation are not accumulative.
BULLETIN BOARDS
At the request of the Union, the Company will provide a bulletin board in the Company office at Yellowknife for the posting of notices of Union meetings, social affairs and other Union notices of a non-controversial nature.
Page 10
ARTICLE 15 -	UNION SECURITY
15.01	The Company shall, during the term of the agreement, honor a written request by an employee for the deduction and remittance of dues, fees and assessments (excluding fines), payable to the Union if the order is substantially in the form set out in Schedule “A” hereto and is signed by the employee.
15.02	The Company shall remit to the Union monthly, the sums so deducted together with a written statement showing the names of the employees from who the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
15.03	The Company shall not be obliged to deduct and remit the said sums, unless it has on hand wages which would otherwise be paid to the employee.
15.04	As a condition of employment, the Company shall deduct from all present and future employees union dues as set by the United Steelworkers and communicated to the Company in the form set out in Schedule “A” hereto.
ARTICLE 16 -	UNION MEMBERSHIP
16.01	All present employees working in the Northwest Territory (NT) and all employees hired after the effective date of this agreement, or thirty (30) days after their hire, whichever is later, shall be required, as a condition of employment, to become and remain members of the Union for the duration of the project employment.
ARTICLE 17 -	NORTHERN LIVING ALLOWANCE
17.01	For an employee who maintains a permanent residence in the Yellowknife area (ie. within a 40 km radius of Yellowknife), the following allowance will be paid:
Effective the date of signing this Agreement, the Northern Living Allowance (NLA) will be
$50.00 per shift worked for married employees $50.00 per shift worked for single employees
The Northern Living Allowance shall not be payable where the Company or others are providing board and accommodation.
Page 11
ARTICLE 18 -18.01
18.02
TRANSPORTATION
a)	The Company has the right to deduct transportation expenses and travel time from an employee’s payroll if that employee does not fulfill his contract duration. See Schedule “A” attached hereto and forming part of this agreement, for clarification.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Article 18(a) above, employees shall be paid traveling time at their regular rates for time spent traveling from Yellowknife to the job site and return to Yellowknife. No travel time shall be paid for travel to Yellowknife from home domicile and return from Yellowknife to home domicile.
c)	If an employee is required to drive or ride in a Company vehicle in order to travel from home domicile to a job site or return from a job site to home domicile, he shall be paid his regular rate for time so spent.
d)	Where an employee is required to travel from an accommodation location or a designated marshalling point to the drill site and return, he shall be paid at regular rates when the time so spent exceeds one (1) hour per shift.
e)	Where an employee incurs approved out-of-pocket expenses while traveling to and from Yellowknife or a designated marshalling point, the Company will reimburse the employee for such expenses provided receipts are submitted in a timely manner and in a form satisfactory to the Company.
Compassionate Leave or Sick Leave
Transportation, travel time and expenses shall be paid in accordance with Schedule “A”, attached hereto, and forming part of this agreement. Valid compassionate grounds are defined as follows:
a)	death in the immediate family. Immediate family to include children, parents, siblings, parents-in-law, and spouse designated as such upon hiring.
b)	birth of a child to the spouse of the employee.
The employee shall, upon request, furnish adequate proof (Birth Certificate, Death Certificate, Doctor’s report, etc.) when making application under Article 18.
Page 12
ARTICLE 19 -19.01
19.02
19.03
19.04
19.05
PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS, LAY-OFFS AND RII HIRING
The Company recognizes the principle of seniority in promotions, transfers, lay-offs and rehiring and in these matters, the following factors shall govern:
(a)	The length of continuous service with the Company
(b)	Ability, knowledge, dependability, training, skill and efficiency of the employee to do the work
(c)	When rehiring, the Company shall make a reasonable effort to contact an employee at his last known address or telephone number. The Company shall have the option to pass over any employee who does not respond within two (2) days.
Where, in the sole judgment of the Company, factor (b) is to all intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, seniority shall govern.
An employee shall lose all seniority if he:
(a)	voluntarily quits
(b)	is justifiably discharged
(c)	is not employed by the Company for a period of four months prior to rehire
d)	refuses to return to work when requested
An employee is considered a probationary employee for the first forty-five (45) days of his employment and shall not have seniority rights under this agreement and may be discharged by the Company at its discretion during that period. Notwithstanding the above, if the Company does discharge an employee during this probationary period, the employee may, if he desires, be represented by the Union in presenting his case to the Company. If the Company confirms the discharge of the probationary employee, it shall not be a matter for grievance under this Agreement.
If the Company sees fit to continue the employment of a probationary employee after the end of forty-five (45) days of continuous service, his name shall be placed on the seniority list as of the beginning of such forty-five (45) days continuous service.
The Company expressly reserves the right to employ technically trained workers and students in reasonable numbers from time to time and to transfer and promote them as the Company may see fit, providing that no employee shall be laid off or discharged to make place for a student, or in the case of employees already laid off, refuse rehire.
Page 13
19.06	A person originally rehired by the Company to exercise a special trade or skill or the participate in a particular assignment of work, may be discharged when his employment at such special trade, skill or particular assignment comes to an end, notwithstanding anything in this agreement to the contrary.
19.07	This agreement shall not deprive the Company of the right to select its employees or to discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
19.08	When practicable, having regard to the time when a job is to be filled, the Company will post jobs available so that employees may have the opportunity of applying for the job and a copy of the posting will be sent to the Union.
19.09	For the sake of clarity, it is understood that the Company does not recognize departmental seniority, (ie. Underground vs. Surface), and shall have the right to select prospective workers for each department according to the provisions of Articles 19.01 - 19.08
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Union set their hands this May 29th 2015
ON BEHALF OF
FORACO CANADA LTD. - WESTERN DIVISION
Herb Phelps General Manager
ON BEHALF OF
UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 8646,
Thereof, in Yellowknife, in the Northwest Territories, Canada.
Jeff Kallichuk Staff Representative
Page SchA1
SCHEDULE “A” - TERMINATION
For the purposes of clarity, the following table shall be the formula for determining reimbursement under Article 18:
Transportation Accommodation	Travel
and Meals	Time
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
	IN	OUT	IN	OUT	IN	OUT
An employee on the job for 21 days and project is not complete	yes	no	yes	no	yes	no
An employee on the job until project completion (if less than 21 days)	yes	yes	yes	yes	yes	yes
an employee on the job who quits without notice or is discharged for cause	no	no	no	no	no	no
an employee on the job between 22 and 42 days or project completion	yes	yes	yes	yes	yes	yes
an employee on the job between 22 and 42 days, and who gives notice of intention to quit and who: a)	works until a replacement arrives or b)	works seven (7) additional shifts after						
giving notice whichever occurs sooner	yes	yes	yes	yes	yes	no
Compassionate or Sick Leave
For the purposes of clarity, the following table shall be the formula for determining reimbursement under Article 18.
Transportation Accommodation	Travel
and Meals	Time
1. an employees who leaves for authentic compassionate ground as provided in	IN	OUT	IN	OUT	IN	OUT
Article 18.01	yes	yes	yes	yes	no	no
2. an employees who leaves due to						
illness or non-compensable accident	yes	yes	yes	yes	no	no
3. an employees who leaves due to a
compensable injury	to nearest medical services, then to point of hire.
WCB rules to apply