IMC CANADA ~ Good People with Good Ideas
Putting Saskatchewan Potash to W>rk Around the World. . .
GC\Z.*.
The IMC Canada
SAFETY PHILOSOPHY
Safety is our top priority
All accidents are preventable
Safety is everyone's responsibility
Safety and Health are a way of life at work and
at home
All employees are accountablefor practicingand enforcing Safety and Health procedures
Some keys to preventingaccidents and injuries are
—	Positive Attitude
—	Mental Awareness
—	Physical Wellness
A successful Safety Program must have the active participation and total commitment of every employeeat every level of the organization
SAFETY FIRST - AT WORK - AT HOME
t
AGREEMENT
Between
ENERGY CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION
LOCAL 892
- and -
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL
CORPORATION (CANADA) LIMITED
Esterhazy, Saskatchewan
February 1, 1990 to
January 31, 1992
; n 1990
1
ARTICLE
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3 ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26 ARTICLE 27 ARTICLE 28 ARTICLE 29 ARTICLE 30 EXHIBIT I APPENDIX "A" APPENDIX "B” APPENDIX “C"
- INDEX -
SUBJECT	PAGE
Purpose................................. 7
Discrimination.......................... 7
Scope................................... 7
Management Rights....................... 8
Union Recognition....................... 9
Union Security.......................... 9
Union Dues............................. 10
Union Committees....................... 10
Seniority.............................. 13
Technological Change .................. 27
Grievance.............................. 29
Arbitration............................ 33
No Strike - No Lockout................. 34
Hours of Work and Overtime............. 34
Wages and Shift Premiums............... 40
New or Changed Jobs.................... 41
Holidays............................... 41
Annual Vacation ....................... 43
Leave of Absence....................... 46
Special Time OIF Wth Pay............... 51
Employee Benefits...................... 53
Pensions............................... 56
Notices ......'...................... 56
Safety and Health...................... 57
Contracting . . :...................... 60
Work By Supervisors.................... 60
Bulletin Boards........................ 61
Legality Of Provisions................. 61
Complete Agreement...................
Duration of Agreement................
Tools and Clothing..................... 64
Wage Rates............................. 66
Lines of Progression................... 73
Apprenticeship Program................. 81
3
THIS AGREEMENT effective the 1st day of February, 1990 is by and betweenFertilizerOperationsof InternationalMineralsand Chemical Corporation (Canada) Limited, Esterhazy, Saskatchewan (here-inafterreferredto as the Company), and Local 892 of Energy & Chemical Workers Union, CLC, Esterhazy, Saskatchewan (hereinafter referred to as the Union).
5
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
1.01	In consideration of the mutual value of joint discussions and negotiations on all matters pertainingto Employer-Employee relations, including rates of pay, hours of work, and all other working conditions, the Parties hereto agree that the purpose of this Agreement shall be to set forth the basic terms and conditions of employment affecting the Employees covered by this Agreement and to provide procedures for the prompt and equitable settlement of disputes and grievances of such Employees.
ARTICLE 2
DISCRIMINATION
2.01	a) There shall be no discrimination by either the Company or the Union by reason of age, sex, creed, color, nationality, religion—f ' political affiliation, ethnic background or Union activity as permitted i
by this Agreement or the Law.
b)	In all cases where the Agreement refers to a person, the references shall be of both genders (male and female).
ARTICLE 3
SCOPE
3.01	This Agreement shall apply to all Employees employed by fnternational Minerals and Chemical Corporation (Canada) Limited at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, except all Managers, Superintendents, Captains, Foremen,Supervisors, Engineers,Chief Metallurgists, Purchasing Agents, Senior Accountants, Senior Cost Accountants, Senior Traffic Analysts, Paymaster, Confidential Secretaries, Planners, Senior Key Punch Operators, Security Guards, Buyers, Janitorial personnel for administrational offices at K1 and K2 to a maximum of five (5Jpersons, and personshaving and regularly exercising authority to employ and/or discharge Employees and persons regularly acting on behalf of Management in a confidential capacity.
Dry personnel at K1 and K2 shall be recognized as in scope, if the Company determines that they do not desire a sub-contractor for such services.
7
3.02	The law, the certificationand the provisions ofthis Agreement are the source of rights of the Union and any Employee covered by this Agreement. The Patties herein agree thatthe relations between them shall be governed by the terms ofthis Agreement and the Law.
ARTICLE 4
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Management of the plant and the direction of the working forces are vested solely and exclusively in the Company.
4.02	The rights retained by Management include:
, 1) The planning, control and direction of plant operations.
2)	The scheduling of work.
3)	The control and regulation of all equipment and other property of the Company.
4)	The determination of production standards.
5)	The determination of the quality of the work to be produced.
6)	The determination of the quantity of the work to be produced in the operations.
:7) The determination of the products to be manufactured.
8)	The location or relocation of plants.
9)	The closing down of plants or any parts hereof.
10)	The work to be assigned to each plant.
11)	The determination of whether and to what extent the work required in the Company's business shall be performed by Employees covered by this Agreement.
12)	The methods, processes and means of manufacturing.
13)	The determination and establishment of any new or improved production methods or facilities.
14)	The determination of the skills required to run the operations.
15)	The assignment of Employees to perform work.
16)	The retirementcf Employeeswithinthetermsofthe Retirement Income Program described in Article 22 of this Agreement.
17)	The determination of ability of Employees as it relates to job performance.
18)	The establishmentand enforcement of reasonable rules of conduct.
19)	To maintain discipline and efficiency.
20)	The right to hire, promote, demote, suspend, discharge or discipline for just cause, transfer, and lay off Employees.
8
21)	Theappointmentand removal of Lead handsor Charge hands. A premium of 25 cents per hour for all hours worked shall be paid to any Employee during his tenure as a Lead hand or Charge Hand. A Lead Hand or Charge Hand, in addition to performing the functions of his classification, will make job-related decisions in conjunctionwith the Supervisor in order to ensure the completion of assignments.
4.03	It is further agreed by the Company and the Union that the enumeration of sole and exclusive Management rights listed above shall not be deemed to exclude other rights not enumerated herein, and that the Company retains the sole and exclusive right to manage the business.
4.04	The company agress that in the exercise of the Management rights it will not violate any of the terms of this Agreement or the Law.
ARTICLE 5
UNION RECOGNITION
5.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for the Employees defined in Article 3, Scope, and agreesto negotiate in good faith matters of collective bargaining including the establishment of a grievance procedure, hours of work, rates of pay, and working conditions.
ARTICLE 6
UNION SECURITY
6.01	Every Employee who is now or hereafter becomes a member of the Union shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment, and every new Employee whose employ-_ ment commenceshereaftershall, withintfiirty (30)daysafterthecom-mencementof his employment, apply for and maintain membership in the Union, and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of his employment, provided that any Employee in the appropriate Bargaining Unit who is not required to maintain his membership or apply for and maintain his membership in the Union shall, as a condition of his employment, tender to the Union the periodic dues uniformly required to be paid by the members of the Union.
9
ARTICLE 7
UNION DUES

7.01	During the lifetime of this Agreementthe Company is hereby authorized and agrees to dgductfrom each Employee'sfirst pay each month uniform rrfembershFp duesforthe current month, uniform initiation fees and assessments, and shall forward such deductions to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union or other properly designated official within ten (10) days after the date the deduction is made. A list of names and classifications of all Employees for and in behalf of whom such deductions have been made will accompany such remittance. Such statement shall include the names of all additions to and deletions from the Bargaining Unit.
7.02	The Union assumes full responsibility for the disposition of the monies so deducted once they have been turned over to the certified Secretary Treasurer or other properly designated officialof the Union.
7.03	It is understood and agreed that the Company's obligation is limited to remitting to the Union the sum or sums from wages actually earned. It is further understood and agreed that Union dues will be deducted provided an Employee has been paid a minimum of five (5) days in the applicable deduction period.
7.04	The Union agrees to indemnifythe Company and save it harmless from any and all claims which may be made against it, for the amount of dues and initiation fees and assessments deducted from the wages of Employees under this Article.
7.05	The Company will include the total of Union dues deducted from an Employee'searnings on the T4 slip each year.
ARTICLE 8 UNION COMMITTEES
8.01	The Company agrees to recognize certain Employees as designated by the Union, as members of mutually agreed committees, for the purpose of dealing with matters within the jurisdiction of the Committee.
Third Step Grievance Committee
8.02	The Company will recognize a Third Step Grievance Committee of the Union which shall consist of a maximum of six (6) persons selected by the Union,one of whom shall act as Chairman.
10
8.03	Third Step Grievance meetings shall be conducted at a mutually agreeable time with the understanding that normal plant operations will not be affected unreasonably.
8.04	The Company agrees that the Union Third Step Grievance Committee membersshall not suffer loss of regular, straighttime pay as a result of attending Third Step Grievance meetings.
Negotiating Committee
8.05	The Company shall recoanizea Negotiating Committee of the Union,which shallconsist of a maximum ofsix (6) Employeesselected by the Union, one of whom shall act as Chairman. The Negotiating Committee referred to above shall consist of the local Union President and the Unit Chairman or their designated representative(s), should either be unable to attend because of absenteeism, or because either or both positionsare held by non-employeesotthe Company. In addition, the Committee shall have representationas follows:
a)	One (1) Employee from the K1 surface operations.
b)	One (1) Employee from the K1 undergroundoperations.
c)	One (1) Employee from the K2 surface operations.
d)	One(1) Employee from the K2 undergroundoperations.
2^8.06 The company agreestopay-the membersof the Negotiating I Committee of the Local Unionas designated in Section 8,05 above for scheduled time lost up to a maximum of eight JSLhoure pay at the Employee'sstraighttlme rate of pay for each day of negotiations with the Company. The above is limitedto those negotiatingsessions priorto work stoppage or the appointment of a Conciliation Officer or Board, provided such Conciliation Officer or Board is mutually requested by the Union and the Company, or is solely requested by the Union.
Subject to the limitations referred to above, the membersof the Ne gotiating Committee, who otherwise are required to work on shift, shall have their shift schedules amended to allow them to work on a regular Monday through Friday day shift schedule, if practical. it Is understoodandagreedthat the overtime requirementsoutllned in Article 14,07 will not be applicable if a shift schedule is amended for this purpose.
11
Union-Management Committee
8.07	The company shall recognize the Union-Management Committee consisting of six (6) Employees selected by the Union, one
/ — pf whom shall act as Chairman for the purpose of meeting with the Company for discussion on matters of mutual interest. Such meet-/ ings shall be held at the request of either party, at mutually agree. able times, but not more frequently than once a month, unless by mutual agreement of the parties. Mutually agreed decisions reached at such meetings shall be drafted by the Company, approved and signed by both parties.
The Union-Management Committee referred to above shall consist of the local Union Presidentand Unit Chairman or their designated representative(s), should either be unable to attend because of absenteeism, or because either or both positions are held by nonemployees of the Company. In addition, the Committee shall have representation as follows:
a)	One (1) Employee from the K1 surface operations.
b)	One (1) Employee from the K1 underground operations.
c)	One (1) Employee from the K2 surface operations.
d)	One (1) Employee from the K2 underground operations.
8.08	The Union members of the Union-Management Committee shall not suffer loss of regular, straight time pay as a result of attending Union-Management Committee meetings.
Steward Structure
8.09	The Union may, from time to time, designate stewards and alternate stewards, providedthat at no time may the Union have more than forty-five (45) stewards and more than forty-five (45) alternate stewards. The alternate steward shall function as a steward on those occasions, when the regular steward is absent, provided that the alternate steward has advised his supervisorthat the regular steward is absent and the alternate steward is assuming his duties.
8.10	The Union will furnish a written list to the Director of Industrial Relations or his designated representative, showing the names of the Executive, the Stewards and the alternate Stewards, and will keep the list current in writing. Only Union members whose names appear on this list will be recognized by the Company.
12
General
8.11 No person shall solicit membership in the Union or in any other labour organization, or collect dues, initiation fees, fines or assessments for the Union or any other labour organization, or engage in any Union or labour organization activity on Company time except to the extent expressly provided for in this Agreement and by the laws of this province.
8.12	All persons selected by the Union to act on any committee set forth in this Agreement shall be regular full time Employees of the Company.
8.13	The Union may have the assistance of a representativeof the National Union and/or authorized agent of the local Union present at any meeting with the Company, of the Committee set forth in this Article.
Article 9 SENIORITY
Definition of Seniority
9.01	Seniority shall be defined as an Employee's period of continuous service with the Company since his last date of hire.
Definition of Qualifications
9.02	Qualificationsof an Employeeshall be defined as ability, skills, experience, physical fitness and job performance.
Probationary Period
9.03	An Employee shall begin to accumulate seniority as soon as he has completed his probationary period, at which time his seniority shall be made retroactiveto his last date of hire. All new Employees shall be considered probationary until they have completed ji period of four hundred and eighty (480) hours worked. ~
A former non-probationary Employee who is rehired shall be considered probationary until he has completed a period of two hundred and forty (240) hours worked.
The terms of the Agreement shall apply to all probationary Employees excepting that such probationary Employees may be terminated without cause, without recourse to the grievance procedure and without requiring advance notice or payment in lieu thereof.
13
Exceptfor Life Insurance and A D. & D. in the amount of thirty thousand ($30,000) dollars, Probationary Employeesshall not be eligible to receive benefits under the benefit plans referredto in Articles 20 and 21 until the first day after such Employee completes his probationary period.
Loss of Seniority and Employment Rights
9.04	An Employee's seniority and employment rights shall be considered lost by reason of
1)	Dismissal for just cause.
2)	Voluntary resignation.
3)	Failure to report for work on recall from layoff within seven (7) days of being notified in writing by double registered mail at his last known address of the requirement to report for permanent employment.
If the time requirements cannot be met, an extension of time may be granted upon mutual agreement by the Union and Com-
pany.
4)	Retirement in accordancewith the terms of Article 22 - Pension Plan.
5)
7)
8)
If an Employee is absent for three (3) consecutive scheduled work days without notifyingthe Company and furnishing an acceptable reason for the absence.
For those Employees with ten (10) or more years of seniority, layoff for a period of thirty-six (36-continuous months; or for Employees with less than ten (10) years of seniority, layoffs for a period equal to the Employee’s seniority or twenty-four (24) months, whichever is the lesser. Seniority shall be maintained but not accumulated during this period. This period may be extended by the mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
Permanent discontinuance of plant operations.
For those employees with ten (10) or more years of seniority, sick leave for a period of thirty-six (36) consecutive months; for those Employees with less than ten (10) years of seniority, for a period equal to twenty-four (24) months of the Employee's seniority, whichever is the lesser, provided every Employee will be considered to have a minimum of one (1) year's seniority. This period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
14
9) If an Employee does not return to work within three (3) consecutive scheduled working days without notifying the Company and furnishing an acceptable reason for the absence after the expiry of a Leave of Absence granted under Article 19, except as is provided in 9.04 (8) immediately above.
Transfer From the Bargaining Unit
9.05	a) An Employee transferred to a position out-of-scope shall maintain and accumulate seniority for a period of six ^months from the date of such transfer. During the six (6) month period, the Company may return such Employee to his former in-scope position. Such Employee shall also have the right to return to his former in-scope position within the time limits. At the end of the six (6jmonth period such Employeeshall lose his seniority rights within the Bargaining Unit. If during the six (6) month period, the Employee returns to an inscope position, he shall pay back dues for the period he was out-of-scope. Promotionsto positions out-of-scope are not subject to the terms of this Agreement.
b)	Employees in-scope may be temporarily transferred out-of-scope to replace supervisors who are absent. During such periods, the affected Employee will be required to submit Union Dues and will retain all seniority rights. If a temporary supervisor is required due to an absence, the Company will notify the crew of workers for the area involved.
Not more than four percent (4%) of the total number of in-scope Employees will be designated as temporary supervisorsatany onetime. It is understood that names of temporary supervisors may change from time to time as may be deemed necessary by the Company. The Company shall notify the Union as soon as possible after a change in names is made.
Within sixty (60) days of signing the Agreement, the Company shall furnish the Union with a list of names of temporary supervisors. It is understood that at any one time this list shall not exceed a total of four percent (4°/o) of the in-scope Employees of the Company. Seniority Lists
9.06	a) Seniority lists shall be revised and posted on designated bulletin boards every three (3) months. Any errors in the posted seniority list shall be brought to the attention of the Union and the Company through the Grievance Procedure. The sole remedy thereof shall consist of a correction to the seniority lists.
15
b)	Each monththe Company shall forward to the Union a current copy of the seniority lists published in alphabetical order, and in order of seniority by classification.
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
Job Posting and Bidding
9.07	This section will be applicable when:
a)	A new johJs established.
No promotion is possible in the line of progression since no qualified Employeesare in the line of progression.
There is a break in the line of progression.
A permanentvacancy occurs intheapprenticeshipplanasde-scribed in Appendix C.	O	...
A permanent day shift vacancy occurs.
A permanentvacancy occurs at the top two position’s in the line of progression as outlined in Appendix B.
g)	For all positions on “Floating Maintenance Crew.”
h)	Flelper’s position in the Maintenance Department.
i)	The position of Cagetender.
9.08	a) When the Company determinesthe need to fill a permanent job vacancy as described in Article 9.07, a notice ofajob being
ailablefor bidding shall bg_posled-©Fi designated bulletin boards for a period of six (6jdays, and a copy of each job posting shall be forthwith supplied to the Union.
b)	An employee eligible to bid for a job shall file an application for such job with the Industrial Relations Department during the period of such posting.
c)	Uponthe request of an Employeewho is absentfrom the plant for the duration of the posting, a Shop Steward may file a bid on behalf of the Employee.
d)	All job postings shall set forth the job title, the rate of pay, the job requirements, the normal location and shift of the job, the number of vacancies, the normal hours of work per shift, whether the job is rotating shift, multi shift or single shift, and it will define the shift schedule as 5-2, 10-3, 5-3, or any other variation.
The purpose of describing the terms or conditions of the job is for information only, to those Employeeswho bid on the job. It is understood that any terms or conditions of the posted job are subject to change as may be deemed necessary by the Company to maintain an efficient operation.
16
7 'J&*
e)	Anrtong applicants whose qualificationsmeetthejob requirements,seniority shall be the determining factor. If there are no applicants whose qualifications meet the job requirements, the Company may elect to fill the vacancy from outside the Bargaining Unit, or from among the applicants whose qualifications do not meet the job requirements.
Where there are no qualified applicants for a vacancy and the Company intends to fill the position from the applicants, the most senior applicant possessing the best combination of academic education, experience, specific skills and merit shall be appointed.
The above in no way reduces the established job requirements or qualifications for the job.
If the Company does not fill the vacancy from outside or from within the Bargaining Unit and the vacancy continues to exist, the Company shall repost the vacancy within ninety (90) calendar days of the original posting closing date.
If the Company fills a vacancy from outside the Bargaining Unit, they shall forward to the Union the name of the person hired, and the job posting filled.
f)	The name of the successful applicant and all other bidders shall be posted on the designated bulletin boards, with a copy to the Union, within ten (10) days after the closing date of the posting. The successful applicant shall fill the vacancy as soon as practicable. The interpretation of the word "practicable" shall include but not be limited to locating a suitable replacement for the successful applicant.
If the Company is unable to transfer the successful applicant within a period of thirty (30) calendar days after his selection, he shall receive the rate of his newjob commencing on the 31 st day, providing the new rate is higher.
Where the Company is unable to transfer the successful applicant within a period of thirty (30) calendar days after his selection by the Company, such Employee shall be notified in writing by the Company as to the reason why the transfer was not made.
g)	It is the intention of the Company to transfer the successful applicant within thirty (30) days after the award of any job bid is posted, except it is understood and agreed that such transfer may be delayed by the Company in cases where; an economic hiring freeze is in ef-
17
feet, there are no bidders or no qualified bidders for the job which the Employee would be leaving vacant, or there are no Employees available to fill the job vacated by the Employee.
9.09	Inrelationto Article 9.08, the following conditions shall apply:
a)	Except for entering a bid on an apprenticeship posting, or entering a bid for a higher rated job, the successful applicant to any job bid shall not be eligible to bid for another job if such bid is within:
—	six (6) monthsfrom the time he was awarded his last job through the posting procedure if it was his first job award;
—	twelve (12) monthsfrom the time he was awarded his last jobthrough the posting procedure if it was his second or subsequent job award.
b)	A person hired from outside the Bargaining Unit will not be permanently assigned to fill a day shift vacancy, if an Employee with seniority and the qualifications has been awarded the vacancy.
c)	In specific instances, any of the above may be waived by mutual agreement of the Parties.
Promotions
9.10	a) The normal progression of promotion will be within the lines of progression within the departmentthrough the classifications as listed in Appendix B; subject to Article 9.07. b) If a permanent job vacancy occurs:
1)	The senior Employee in the next lower job classification in line \ of progression to the vacant job who has the qualifications to fill the ^ vacancy will be promoted into the job vacancy. If such senior Employee accepts the promotion and is subsequently disqualified, he will be returned to his former job.
2)	In the event of the above, the next senior qualified Employee in that classification will be offered the promotional opportunity.
3)	If after following this procedure, the vacancy is not filled from the next lower classification, then the job will be posted for bid as provided for under the posting and bidding procedure in the Article.
4)	The Company shall, within ten (10) days of promoting an Employee as provided above, post the name of such Employee and the position in which he has been promoted to, on the designated bulletin boards, and a copy of such posting shall be forthwith furnished to the Union.
Time limits for Grievances arising from such promotions shall start from the date of the posting.
18
General Conditions for Promotions and Job Bids
9.11	a) An employee transferred pursuant to a bid to a lateral or lower job classification shall be considered qualified in the new job classificationat any time up to a maximum of forty-five (45) calendar days, plus one (1) day of each day such Employee was absent from work on a regular scheduled work day, and minus one (1) day for each full extra shift such Employee worked overtime.
b)	After an Employee hasaccumulatively worked upto a maximum of forty-five (45) calendar days as referred to in (a) above on the higher grade level job to which he has been promoted or for which he has bid and been accepted, he will be deemed qualified and his rate of pay for those hours worked on such job will be made retroactive to the date he started on the job.
c)	If an Employee fails to qualify at anytime during the said period, the Company will return the Employee to his former job.
d)	There shall be no trial period for the successful applicant of a lateral bid within the classification, as the Employee is already deemed qualified.
Temporary Vacancies and Temporary Assignments
9.12	a) Temporary vacancies which are caused by an Employee being absent from work may last beyond forty-five (45) calendar days.
b)	Temporary assignments for a period not exceeding forty-five (45) calendar days may occur for the purpose of expediting production or for maintenance.
c)	Where such temporary vacanciesor temporary assignments are filled through the Posting procedure, training or experience acquired during the filling of the temporary vacancy or temporary assignment shall be used in determining qualifications for permanent vacancies.
9.13	Notwithstandingthe provision of Article 9.16, atemporary assignment or temporary vacancy under forty-five (45) calendar days may be filled without recourseto the posting and bidding procedure, with an Employee within the department on the shift concerned.
If it is impractical to fill the vacancy with an Employee within the department on the shift concerned, then such temporary vacancy may be filled from either a different department on the shift concerned or from within the department on another shift, provided the junior qualified Employee from the department or shift concerned is assigned.
19
Insofar as practical, the normal procedure will be to temporarily assign an Employee from the next lower job in the line of job progression in the department concerned to fill temporary vacancies so that opportunity is afforded an Employee for on-the-job training. Training acquired during temporary assignments shall not be used to determine qualifications for permanent vacancies.
9.14	Temporary vacancies or temporary assignments filled in the above manner shall be limited to that specific temporary condition only. If the vacancy becomes permanent, it shall be subject to other sections of this Article whichever are applicable.
9.15	An Employee who is temporarily transferred to another job in accordance with the above in which the rate of pay is different from that in effect in the Employee's regular job, shall be paid as follows:
a)	If the rate of pay for the job to which he is temporarily transferred is less than the Employee's regular pay for the job from which he has been temporarily transferred, he shall during each temporary transfer receive his own higher rate of pay.
b)	If the rate of pay for the job to which he is transferred is higher than the Employee's regular rate of pay, he shall receive the higher rate of pay for all hours worked on the higher rated job, provided the transfer is for more than sixty (60) consecutive minutes.
9.16	No employee shall be transferred from his job except in the event of a temporary vacancy as defined in Article 9.12, or in the event of the Company being unable to fill a permanentvacancy under Article 9.07 in which case the following procedure shall apply:
1)	The Company may elect to temporarily promote an Employee following the lines of progression as outlined in Article 9.10 or;
2)	The Company may temporarily transfer the junior competent Employee in the same department to fill the vacancy.
Layoffs
9.17	In the event of a layoff, the Company and Union will meet prior to the layoff to discuss the reasons for the layoff and to work out proceduresfor the layoff on the basis of seniority and qualifications.
A) Temporary Layoffs (Shutdown of Operations)
1)	A temporary layoff is defined as one whereby Employee(s) are laid off and/or redassifiedfor a period not exceeding ninety (90) calendar days. This could include a total or partial shutdown of operations.
20
2)	Affected Employees will receive written notice in advance of the layoff or pay in lieu of notice. Notice will indicate the shutdown date and reopening date of the temporary layoffs (shutdowns) as follows:
a)	If the shutdown is for a period of two (2) weeks or less -two (2) weeks’ notice:
b)	If the shutdown is for a period of three (3) weeks or more than two (2) weeks - three (3) weeks’ notice;
c)	If the shutdown isfor a period of morethan three (3) weeks but less than ninety (90) days - four (4) weeks’ notice.
3)	Only those Employeeswho are displacedfrom their normal job, location, shift or scheduled hours of work will be allowed to exercise bumping rights.
4)	The parties agree that no Employeeshall displace another Employee solely for the purpose of gaining overtime while other Employees are on layoff.
5)	A displaced Employee may use his seniority rights to regain, as closely as reasonably possible, the number of hours of work he would normally have worked had the shutdown not taken place.
6)	The Company will continue all normal benefits for all Employees on temporary layoff.
B) Permanent Layoffs
1)	A permanent layoff is defined as one whereby an Employee or Employees are laid off for an indefinite period of time when the Company reduces the number of Employeesemployed by the Company.
Employeesaffected by a layoff will be laid off i n rgygrse-QKler of Corr pany seniority.
An Employee subject to a layoff shall receive written notice in ac vance of the layoff or pay in lieu, as follows:
a)	One (1) weeks' notice if the Employee's period of employment is one (1) year or less.
b)	Two (2) weeks’ notice if the Employee’s period of employment is one (1) year or less than three (3) years.
c)	Four (4) weeks’ notice if the Employee’s period of employment is three (3) years or less than five (5) years.
d)	Six (6) weeks’ notice if the Employee’s period of employment is five (5) years or less than ten (10) years.
21
rLK' e) Eight (8) weeks' notice if the Employee's period of employ-U ment is ten (10) years or more.
2)	Severance Pay
An Employee placed on layoff will have the option to:
a)	Remain on layoff with recall rights; or
b)	Elect to take severance pay as follows: jy^'Employees who are permanently laid off shall be paid severance
pay at the rate of one (1) week's pay per full year of service up to a maximum of nine (9) weeks at the Employee's rate of pay at the ^>1ime of layoff.
1 0 Upon acceptance of severance pay, an Employee's seniority and v. employment rights will be terminated.
An Employee must choose to select this option within ninety (90) ca-ACJj lendar days from the date of actual layoff or this option to select se-^ verance pay is withdrawn.
Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the parties from exploring other considerations affecting permanently laid off Employees.
C)	Layoff Procedure
1)	Layoffs will be made on the basis of seniority. The most junior Employee(s) in the classification within the department and location affected will be given written notice of layoff or reclassification.
2)	The Company shall, after giving notice to any Employee, de-
whether, in accordance with the Employee's seniority and ^-''qualifications, he£an_dis£laceajunior Employee.
(	3) If such displacement is apparent, the Company shall place
, the laid off or reclassified Employeein such job and atthe same time *	layoff or reclassify the junior Employee being displaced. This pro-
cedure will continue until all laid off or reclassified Employeesdis-place junior Employees.
4)	If an Employee is not satisfied with his reclassification, he may, within two (2) working days, exercise his seniority to displace a junior Employee in any classification for which he has maintained the necessary qualifications to perform the work.
5)	Qualified shall mean:
a)	A job in the Same classification; or
b)	A job previously held through the bid procedure; or
22
c)	A job previously held through job progression; or
d)	A job for which the Employee is deemed qualified according to Company records.
6)	a) V\foen exercising bumping-rights during a Temporary Shutdown or when Downsizing occurs, the laid off or displaced Employee can use his seniority to bump a junior Employee in any of the departments and subgroups listed below.
b) V\foen exercising bumping rightsduring a Permanent layoff or when a total department is shut down for an indefinite period of time, the laid off or displaced Employee may bump the junior Employee in another subgroup within his own department or the junior employee in a lower classification on his shift.
Failing this option, the laid off or displaced Employee must then use his seniority rights to bump the junior Employee in the equivalent department and job classification at the opposite mine or mill, if his seniority allows him to do so.
If the laid off or displaced Employee cannot hold in that equivalent department and job classification at the opposite mine or mill, he may then use his seniority to bump the junior Employee in any department and subgroup classification listed below.
In all cases the most junior Employee in the department, subgroup and classification will be the one who will be displaced.
7) Deoartment and subarouDS shall be defined as follows:
Departments			
K1 Surface	K2 Surface	K1 Underground	K2 Underground
Subgroups			
Mill Mtce. Floating Utilities Production Shift Office & Technical	Shop MiTI Mtce Floating Utilities Production Shift Office & Technical	Mine Mtce. Shaft Floating Production Shift	Mine Mtce. Water Shaft Floating Production Shift
8) The Company will grant a period of familiarization or retraining of up to 48 hours worked for the Employee to show he has maintained the necessary qualifications of the job.
23
9) It is understoodand agreed that the procedure outlined above for layoffs is better than the provisions of the Law.
1)	An Employ	j recalled to work after a layoff shall be
recalled in reverse order of layoff provided he has the necessary qualifications to perform the "worK'fbF wftrch' he has been recalled.
2)	Notice of recall shall be given either personally or by double registered mail to the Employee's last known address. It will be the responsibility of the Employeeto notify the Company of any change of address.
3)	An employee may refuse a recall if the employment being offered is of short term duration, that is, eighty-nine (89)calendar days or less, without losing his rights to recall to permanent employment. The Companywill have the rightto recallthe next senior qualified Employeeto cover the work requirements during the above-mentioned period.
The prerogative of refusal of a recall to work by an Employee, as permitted above, does not apply in cases where the partial or total operations of the Company is shutdown and subsequently reopened.
4)	Any recall shall be deemed permanent unless otherwise stated.
5)	An Employee who is offered a recall to a job other than to the job he held at the time of permanent layoff, will have the option to refuse the recall. If he does refuse the recall, he shall not be recalled again until the job he held at the time of layoff is available. Employees electing this option may, at a later date, have one opportunity to elect to be placed back on the general recall list, in which case the Employee will be recalled to a job as vacancies occur in accordance with his seniority and qualifications.
6)	Duringperiods of temporary shutdown, an Employeewho does not exercise bumping rightswhen first eligibleto do so will be placed on layoff. The Employeewill then have one opportunityto be placed back on the recall list but only after the final work list for the temporary shutdown has been posted, at which time the Employee will be eligible for recallto any newjob opportunities for which he is qualified.
D)	Recalls
24
7)	Laid off Employees and Employees who have been removed from their former jobs through bumping, will be placed on a recall list with their names, former jobs and locations entered. Employees must be recalled and Employees must accept recall to their former jobs and departments, as closely as possible, in the reverse order of layoff.
8)	An Employee who was laid off or reclassified may defer recall to hisformerpermanentclassificationand department until such time as that Employee becomes the junior Employeeto be recalled. At that time, he must return to his former permanent classification and department.
9)	Job posting provisions of the Collective Agreement will not apply to those classificationswhere Employees are waiting to be recalled.
E)	General
1)	In no case shall an Employee be laid off for any part of a regular shift after reporting for work that day.
2)	An Employee receiving notice of layoff or reclassification and not exercising his rights or accepting anotherjob as provided herein, shall be placed on layoff.
3)	When displacement by an Employee takes place because of layoff or reclassification, and such displacement results in change of shifts, such affected Employee shall not be eligible for overtime premiums on his days of rest under his previous schedule, unless such Employeeworks in excess of his previously scheduled regular hours in such week. Such Employee will assume the days of rest under the schedule of work he assumes, and if requiredto work on such days, he shall be paid at overtime rates.
4)	The Union Steward may present a bid on behalf of a laid off Employee.
5)	It is agreed that general overtime during layoffs should be kept to a minimum. Overtime during a layoff should be of an unplanned or emergency nature, or for the purpose of completing a job.
6)	The layoff notice provisions provided by this agreement shall notapply when a shutdown is caused by a catastrophe or other emergency situationsas referredto in SectionF, Unplanned Layoffs, which are beyond the control of the Company, or on days the plant is not operating due to a Statutory Holiday occurring.
25
F)	Unplanned Layoffs
1)	Where conditions beyond the Company's control develop a temporary shortage of work not exceeding six (6) consecutive calendar days, the Company may lay off Employeeswithout being required to apply the displacement by seniority provisions or the recall provisions of this Collective Agreement.
2)	Oversupply of inventory, for any reason, shall not be considered a condition beyond the control of the Company as it pertains to this section.
3)	The above shall only be applicable where the number of Employees involved is more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the location affected and the layoff period does not exceed six (6) consecutive calendar days.
Forthe purpose of this section, the locations shall be:
K1 Surface	K1 Underground
K2 Surface	K2 Underground
4)	An Employee who would have been laid off due to a temporary work shortage in accordance with this clause, and is subsequently kept at work, must accept the work assigned to him or be placed on the temporary layoff.
G)	Downsizing
A downsizing of the operations shall occur when an Employee or Employees are permanently removed or transferred from their reg-ularjobs or shift in such a way that no Employee is permanently laid off. An Employeefirst affected by downsizing shall receivetwo (2) weeks' written notice in advance of such downsizing. Inthe event of notice being less than that, Article 14.07 will apply.
Only those applicable layoff, recall and general provisions of the Collective Agreement will apply to Employees affected by downsizing.
General
9.18	The Company agrees to supply to the Union within ninety (90) days of the signing of this Agreement, all job qualifications and requirements for jobs listed in Appendix A.
The qualifications and requirementsas established by Management for each job listed in Appendix A shall be maintained, unless there is a significant change in the work content of the job.
26
9.19	It is agreed that Employees awarded positions on the "Floating Maintenance Crew" may be required by the Company to change locations and/or shifts from time to time as required to commence and complete projects. However, insofar as practical, it is agreed that the crew will normally work the hours of the day shift. The Company further agrees that the Floating Maintenance Crew will not be used to replace or displace the regular established maintenancejobs and/or departments.
9.20	As vacancies arise from time to time, Employeesin the labour pool shall be appointed through promotion, by seniority, to shift positions on production at the location at which they work, provided such Employee has demonstrated his ability to perform such work. The provisionsof Article 14.06 and Article 14.07 shall not apply to Employees changing to and from shift positions, providing such Employee is given at least twenty-four (24) hours notice of such change in shifts.
9.21 Employees who are students and are hired under the student summer employment policy of the Company shall be deemed to be temporary Employees. The employment of such personsshall commence not earlier than May 1st of each year and such persons will be terminated not later than September 15th of each year. Employeeswho are hired as Co-operative Education Students shall be deemed to be temporary Employees. The employment of such persons shall commenceand end to accommodatethe Co-operative Education Students standard four month work term.
The Company will identify temporary Employeeson the Union Dues check off lists.
Students hired as temporary Employees shall not be eligible for any benefits outlined in Articles 19, 20 or 21, excepting clauses 19.13 -funeral leave and 21.04-tools and clothing, which are to be returned upon termination. Prescription safety glasses may be retained by the temporary Employee upon termination of employment.
The Student rate of pay will be eighty percent (80%) of the normal rate of pay for the job the Student works at.
ARTICLE 10
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
10.01	In recognition of the spirit and intent of the Technological Change Act of 1972, the Parties hereto are providing through the format of this Agreement an orderly procedureto deal withthe effect
27
of a technological change within the meaning of the Act. It has also been agreed between the Parties that if, as a result of a technological change within the meaning of the Act, job classifications are changed, job classifications are combined and/or new job classifications are established, such will be dealt with underthe provisions of Article 16, “New or Changed Jobs”.
Interpretation of “significant numbers” in the Technological Change Act shall mean one (1) or more persons in all cases.
10.02	Procedures for the aforementioned are:
1)	Notification
The Company will notify the Union of a technologicalchange at least ninety (90) days prior to the date on which such change is to be effected and such notice shall be in writing and shall state: ,//®sa) the nature of the technologicalchange:
£b) the date uponwhichthe Company proposedto effect the tech-\nological change, and:
c)	the names, seniority dates and classificationsof the Employees primarily affected.
2)	Employee Rights
An employee displaced as a result of a technologicalchange will exercise his rights under Article 9 (Seniority) which are as follows:
a)	An Employee receiving Notice of Layoff shall exercise his seniority to displace the junior Employee in a classification of equal or lower rate of pay, or the junior Employeeon a job previously held, providing he has the necessary job qualifications.
b)	The displaced Employee may then exercise his seniority rights in the same manner as above unless there are no junior Employees to displaceor he does not have the necessary qualifications in which case he is subject to layoff.
c)	An Employee receivingthe Notice of Layoff and not exercising his right under (a) and (b) above, will be placed on layoff.
3)	Severance Pay
a)	Employees with one (1) or more full years of service who are reduced in force and placed on layoff as a result of the technological •^VCchange shall be paid severance pay at the rate of one (1) week’s JjWpay per full year of service up to a maximum of nine (9) weeks at ■•'''j the Employee's rate of pay at the time of layoff.
5 b) Employeeswho have been laid off or those who have chosen optional layoff under 10.02 (2) (c) above can elect to take his severance pay at the time of layoff. Upon acceptance of severance pay such Employee’sseniorityandemploymentrightswill be terminated.
28
4) Co-operation With Canada Manpower
a)	Upon request, the Company will furnish to Canada Manpower the laid off Employee's skills inventory record and other information necessary to assist them in relocating such displaced Employee in another job with another Company.
b)	Reduction in workforce occasioned through productionrequire-ments solely, are not subject matter of this Article and the Technological Change Act of 1972.
10.03	Computers
It is recognized that the use of computers in the offices and work places will continue to grow. It is inevitable that some restructuring of jobs and job descriptions will occur under Article 16. It is not the intention of the company to make changes associated with computerization which would have as their purpose the replacement of inscope employees with out-of-scopeemployees. It is also understood that the use of computers from time to time by out-of-scope employees does not in and by itself constitute the performing of work in the exclusive domain of in-scope employees.
This agreement shall not have any effect on out-of-scope employees who use computers in the normal course of their job to do work that is normally not done by in-scope employees.
Employee(s) whose jobs are permanently affected by computerization shall be recognized under this article, Technological Change.
ARTICLE 11 GRIEVANCE DEFINITION
11.01	A grievance shall be defined as a dispute as to the application or interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement.
PROCEDURE
11.02	All grievances to be processed hereunder when filed in writing shall set forth the essential facts of the complaint, with reference to how the Employee feels aggrieved and what redress is required. Such written grievance shall then form the basis of the complaint through all the steps of the Grievance Procedure and Arbitration Procedure.
29
Grievances meeting the above requirements shall be processed in
the manner stated below.
Step 1 - An Employee who feels he has a grievance as defined above shall continue on his assigned duties. Should he wish to submit a grievance under this procedure, a written grievance relating to the complaint shall be prepared and presentedto his immediate Supervisor through or with his - Shop Steward. The grievance shall be submitted to this Supervisor in a period not exceeding eighteen (18) calendar days of the day of its occurence. The Supervisor shall in a period not exceeding five (5) calendar days following receipt of the Employee's submission of the grievance, give a written reply to the Employee concerning his grievance. Where the grievance as written is a proper grievance, and where it fully outlines and explains the grievance, the Supervisor in his written reply shall, insofar as it is practical and warranted under the circumstances, explain or give reasonsfor his concurrence or non-concurrenceof the grievance.
Step 2 - Ifasetdementisnotreachedatthefirststep, the Employee, through his Shop Steward, may in a period not exceeding five (5) calendar days of the completion of Step 1 present the written grievance to the Department Head or his designated representative^ meeting will be held in a period not exceeding five (5) calendar days of the time the grievance was presented to the Department Head. The Employee's Shop Steward shall be present at the meeting. The Department Head shall reply to the grievance, in writing, in a period not exceeding seven (7) calendar days following the date on which the grievance was received by the Department Head.
Step 3 - If settlement is not reached at the second step, the written grievance may, in a period not exceeding ten (10) calendar days of the completion of Step 2, be referred by the Union to the Director of Industrial Relations or his designated representative.
A monthly Third Step Grievance Meeting shall be held at a time to be agreed upon by both Parties to discuss all pending Third Step Grievances. An additional meeting may be
30
scheduled, if required, by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union. The Company's final answer at Step 3 will be given in a period not exceeding seven (7) calendar days of the meeting.
Group Grievance
11.03	If a grievance as defined in 11.01 above involves a group or groups cf Employees, the Grievance procedure may be commenced at the step of the Grievance procedure involving the first designated official cf the Company having jurisdiction over the Employees affected or the subject matter concerned. Such grievance must be submitted in writing in a period not exceeding eighteen (18) calendar days cf the occurrence of the grievance.
Union Grievance
11.04	If a grievance comes within 11.01 and concerns the Union as a whole, and would not be handled by the provisions of 11.02 - Stepl or 11.03, two Union designated members of the executive of the Union who are Employeesof the Company may, in a period not exceeding eighteen (18) calendar days of the occurrence of the grievance present a written grievance to the Company, which shall go directly into Step 3 of the Grievance procedure.
Suspension or Discharge
11.05	Ifa meetingis held for the purpose of suspension or discharge, the Employee who is being suspended or discharged shall have his steward in attendance at such meeting. If an Employee believesthat he has been discharged or suspended without just and sufficient cause, the matter shall be presented at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure in a period not exceeding six (6) calendar days after written notice of such suspension or discharge has been sent by registered mail to the Employee's last known address or after written notice of such suspension or discharge has been personally given to him. The remedy for adjusting a grievance, if it is determined that any is justified, may consist of reinstatement with or without back pay or with partial backpay, or may consist of pay or partial back payment without reinstatement, or may consist of any other redressap-propriate to the circumstances.
Referral to Arbitration
11.06	If settlement is not reached at the Third Step, the grievance may be referred to Arbitration as set forth in Article 12. The Union shall notify the Company of its intent to seek Arbitration by written
31
notice served by registered mail, in a period notexceedingforty-five (45) calendar days, after the completion of Step 3. If such notice is not mailed in a period not exceeding the forty-five (45) calendar day period, the grievance shall be deemed settled on the basis of the Company’s answer at Step 3.
Time Limits
11.07	If the Company representatives do not take the necessary action to processthe grievance, or provide answers within the time limits specified for any step, the grievance shall be automatically considered referredto the next higher step, except that Arbitration shall only be invokeduponthe giving of proper notice as provided in 11.06 above.
Ifthe grievance is not processed by the Union or the Employee within the time limits provided in the various steps, the grievance is considered settled on the basis of the Company’s last answer. Time limits of Step 2 and Step 3 may be extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
General
11.08	a) It is agreed by the Company and the Union that meetings on grievances shall take place during regular working hours, without loss of pay, provided such meetings take place during the Employee’s scheduled working hours.
b)	The Union shall receive from the Company a copy of any written disciplinary action taken against an Employee.
c)	When an Employee is discharged, the appropriate Union Steward for the area may, upon receiving permission from his Supervisor, leave his duties to investigatethe matter. The Management reservesthe right to establish the time and time limitsto performsuch duty.
Such permission will not be unreasonably denied.
d)	Upon receiving permission from the foreman concerned, an Employee or the appropriate Steward of the Union may submit and/or process a grievance during working hours, provided only if there is no interruption in the work program.
Such permission will not be unreasonably denied.
e)	At the request of the Employee, a Shop Steward from that Employee's area must be present at any meeting which is held for the purpose of issuing discipline.
32
ARTICLE 12 ARBITRATION Arbitrable Issues
12.01	The Arbitration Procedure shall extend only to those issues which are arbitrable under this Agreement and only if the grievance was properly and timely filed and meets the requirements set out in Article 11.
Arbitration
12.02	Within seven (7) calendar days of the date of mailing notice of intent to seek Arbitration,the Union shall meet with the Company to select by lot an Arbitrator from the following panel:
Elton Gritzfeld Dan Ish
Kenneth Norman
If the Arbitrator so selected by lot is unable to serve, then the next Arbitrator whose name was drawn will be the Arbitrator selected, and so on until one of the Arbitrators on the panel is able to serve.
12.03	After the Arbitrator has been chosen by the foregoing procedure, he shall meet and hear the evidence of both Parties, as soon as possible. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the Parties and upon any Employee affected by it.
costs
12.04	The Union and the Company will equally share the costs incurred by the Arbitrator.
Witnesses
12.05	Each party shall be responsible for the costs of its witnesses in accordance with the arrangement it has made with its witnesses.
One Issue
12.06	The Arbitrator shall not deal with more than one (1) grievance without the mutual consent of the Company and the Union.
Power
12.07	The Arbitrator shall not have the power to add to, subtract from, or modify in any way the terms of this Agreement. The Arbitrator may consider only the particular issue or issues presented to him and his decision must be based solely on the interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement.
33
12.08	The Arbitrator shall render his decision in writing to the Parties not later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the completion of the hearing of evidence and representations made to him on the matter by the Parties.
ARTICLE 13
NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
13.01	The Union, it‘s Agents, and each Employeeagrees that there will be no strikes, slow downs or withholding of production and the Company agrees that there shall be no lockout.
ARTICLE 14
HOURS OF V\DRK AND OVERTIME Definition of Workday
14.01	A workday shall be defined as a twenty-four (24) hour period commencing with the start of an Employee's regular scheduled shift. Definition of Work Week
14.02	The work week shall be the period commencing at midnight on Saturday and ending at midnight on the following Saturday. Definition of Shift
14.03	A shift shall be defined as a period of time within a work day
and these periods of time shall be referred to hereafter as day shift, afternoon shift, nigh	t be rotatingor non-rotating in na-
14.04	a) Forthose Employees scheduled to an eight (8) hour work day, the basic work day shall be eight (8) hours per day, and the basic work week shall be forty (40) hours of work per week, consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each.
b)	Forthose Employees scheduled to work a ten (10) hour work day, the basic work day shall be ten (10) hours per shift, and the basic work week shall be forty (40) hours per week, which shall be based on an averaging formula for hours per week.
c)	Forthose Employees scheduled to work a twelve (12) hour work day, the basic work day shall be twelve (12) hours per shift and the basic work week shall be forty (40) hours per week, which shall be based on an averaging formula for hours per week.
The Company and the Union recognize that continuous shift operations may require variations to the five (5) day week and in such operations the number of day's work shall not exceed ten (10) days in any two week period.
ture.
Hours of Work
34
An Employee'snormaldaysof rest will be consecutive unlesschanged by mutual agreement in specific instances by the Company andthe Union.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a guaranteeof hours of work per day or per week.
14.05	It is understood by the Parties that flexibility is required in the starting time of shifts for production purposes. However, it is agreed that starting times shall not vary more than one (1) hour from the normal starting times. Any change in shift starting times outside of that permitted in this Section will be allowed only by mutual agreement of the Parties.
Shift Schedules and Changes in Shift Schedules
14.06	The Company will develop and post shift schedules at least seven (7) calendar days in advance of the effective day of such schedules.
Notations on the posting shall include location and shift times.
The Company will give Employees twenty-four (24) hours notice of any change in the Employee's shift schedule.
If less than twenty-four (24) hours notice is given, the Employee(s) affected by the change will be pa id two (2)times his regularstraight time rate for all hours worked on the first shift of such changed schedule.
This provision is not applicable when a call-out runs into the Employee's regular scheduled shift. Such will be governed by the call-out pay provisions.
It is understood and agreed that a change in location does not constitute a change in shift schedules, however, in the event of a change in location, the Company agrees to transport the affected Employees to and from the new location on the first day of such change only and on Company time.
It is agreed that the Company will not change shift schedulesforthe purpose of avoiding the payment of overtime.
14.07	1) In the event the Company changes an Employee's shift schedule, then during the first week of such change, his days of rest under his previous schedule will be observed for overtime payment.
2)	This provision is only applicable during the first week of the new shift schedule and does not apply if a change of shifts is a result of any Employee changing status due to promotion, preferential shifts or jobs, or when an Employee returns to his original shift schedule after a temporary transfer.
35
3)	This provision shall not be applicable, when due to breakdown of equipment or reasons unforeseen to Management cause a shutdown of normal operations, and when Managementoffersthe affected Employees other work rather than invoke the layoff procedure.
Shift Starting Times
14.08	a) The normal shift hours for those Employees working an eight (8) hour day shall be:
8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
4:00 p.m. - 12:00 midnight 12:00 midnight - 8:00 a.m.
b) The normal shift hours for those Emploveesworking a ten (10) or twelve (12) hour work day shall beasscheduledand posted.
It is understoodand agreed that Employees will be allowed a period not exceeding twenty (20) minutes each day to eat their lunch. The lunch period shall be included as'paftrfimerand shall be as near as possible to the middle of the shift.
Overtime Pay
14.09	a) An Employee will be paid two (2) times his regular straight ^ i
time hourly rate of pay for all work performed in excess of:	•'Z-idE
i.	Employeesworking an eight (8) hour shift, for work per-^^f' formed in excess of eight (8) hours in any one work day: C)
ii.	Employees working a ten (10) hour shift, for work performed in excess often (10) hours in any one work day.
iii.	Employeesworking a twelve (12)hourshift,forworkper-formed in excess of twelve (12) hours in any one work day.
14.10	An Employee will be paid two (2) times his regular straight time hourly rate of pay for work performed:
a)	For all work performed on designated holidays.
b)	Work performed on scheduled days of rest.
c)	For all work performed as providedfor in 14.07.
It is understood that the above will not apply where an Employee is calledI guttO Jyork and works continuously into the beginning of his next scheduled shift. Such will be governed by the Call-Out provisions.
Pyramiding
14.11	Paymentof overtimework shall be made as in 14.09 or as in 14.10 whichever gives the Employee the greatest pay. There shall be no duplication of weekly and daily overtime, nor pyramiding of overtime on overtime.
36
Overtime Work
14.12	The Company shall determine the needfor overtime.The Company will make a sincere effort to keep such overtime to a minimum. Where overtime is necessary, the Company shall make an effort to assign overtime so as to cause the least personal inconvenience to an Employee as reasonably practical under the circumstances.
Scheduled Overtime
14.13	The Company shall notify the Employees scheduled to work such overtime two (2) days prior to such overtime being required. An Employee with a .reasonable personal excuse will be excused from working such scheduled overtime, if a qualified replacement is available. The Employee's Supervisor will attempt to obtain a replacement.
Unscheduled Overtime
14.14	The Company shall havethe right to requirethat an Employee work overtime in an emergency situation unless such Employee has a reason that involves an extreme personal emergency that will prevent him from working the required overtime. In such case, the required overtime work shall be assigned to another Employee on the shift, capable of performing the work.
14.15	Unscheduled overtime that is not of an emergency nature will be assignedto an Employeeon the shift who normally performs such work. If the Employee so assigned has a reasonable personal excuse for not working the overtime, it will be assigned to other qualified Employees on the shift until an Employee is obtained to work the overtime. If in following this procedure, it is not possibleto obtain the required number of Employeesto work the overtime, then such work will be performed by assignmenttothe junior Employee^ Employees within that normal work group on the shift.
14.16	If overtime work is expected to be more than two (2^-Hiours in duration, the Employee(s) affected will be supplied their overtime mealattheir regularquittingtime, if practical, SncTapproximately every four (4) hours of work thereafter.
14.17	In the case of unscheduled overtime, the Company will supply transportationfrom the plant site to such Employee's home where the Employee has no other means of transportation available.
Overtime Meals
37
When a car pool driver is required to work unscheduled overtime, the Company shall supply the members of the car pool who are not required to work overtime with transportationto their homes, if there is no other means of transportation available.
Overtime Distribution
14.18	Overtime work will be distributed as equitably as is reasonably practical among Employees normally performing the work in the area on the shift who have the required skills and abilities to perform the work. It is understood that this Section does not assume that each Employee sharing overtime within a particular area and shift will at any given time have received the same number of overtime hours, but merely expresses the policy of the Company to keep such overtime as nearly in balance from time to time as is practicable under the circumstances.
Lists
14.19	Up-to-date lists showing how overtime has been allocated within the particulargroup in the area on the shift shall be maintained by the Company and shall be posted quarterly. If an Employee refuses the opportunity of working an overtime assignment, it will be considered as an overtime opportunity worked and so recorded. The Company will furnish to the Union a copy of the overtime list as posted on a quarterly basis.
Maintenance of Balance of Overtime
14.20	If a balance of the overtime hours worked among a group which normally shares overtime work is not properly maintained because of improper allocation and a grievance is filed, and as a result, an Employee(s) case is proven, then the off-balance overtime condition shall be identified and the imbalance corrected as soon as practical until a fair balance in the overtime distribution is reestablished.
Call-Out
t 14.21 If an Employee who has left the Company premises is called ,j out to work outside his regular howo^i^ shall be guaranteedamin-{jj04'mum of four (4) hours pay at/two (2))jfnes his regular straight time y rafST^mpioyees so called outShalf'not be required to perform rout-\ ine work, after he has completed the work for which he was originally called out, excepting that he may be requiredto perform other emergency work consistent with his skills and arising during the period of the call-out.	*++*
o
14.22	The above call-out provision will not apply to an Employee who is called out to work and does work continuously into the beginning of his scheduled shift. In such case, he will be paid a minimum of two (2)hours at two (2)times his regular straight time hourly rate of pay for all hours worked prior to his regular shift and will be permittedto work to the end of his regular shift. Employees on such call-out, in order to receive the two (2) hour minimum pay must report for work within a reasonable time period.
Reporting Pay
14.23	If an Employee reportsfor work after having been scheduled or notified to, and has not been previously notified in advance of his reporting time not to report, he will be given a day's work or.
^twodusxiot-avaiiablerheshall receive.a regular day's pay at straight time in lieu thereof. An Employeewho has no phone, or an incorrect phone number on file with the Company will be considered to have been given proper notice, under this provision, when the Employee reports to work. It is understood that if the Employee's regular job is not available he shall perform duties as assigned for the period
14.24	No Employee assigned to a rotating shift or continuous operation shift shall leave at the end of his shift until his relief reports, unless he is released by his Supervisor.
General
14.25	1 )An Employee who worked one-half his rest hours or more in the rest period immediately preceding the start of his next shift shall, at the request of such Employee, be given such shift off from work without pay.
2)	In the event an Employee works one-half his rest hours or more in the rest period immediately preceding the start of his shift, and he does not have at least seven (7) hours' rest between the completion of the overtime worked and the start of his next scheduled shift, he shall have the starting time of his next shift adjusted to provide for seven (7) hours' rest, after which he will receive a normal day's pay.
3)	For those Employees on a callout to work as provided in Articlesl4.21 and 14.22, the provisionsof this section (Article 14.25) shall only apply to those Employees who are called out to work and actually work for more than five (5) consecutive hours of overtime
referred to above. Shift Relief
39
on the call-out and who do not receive seven (7) hours' rest from the end of the overtime call-outto the start of their nextscheduledshift.
4)	In the event an Employee is required to return to work for one (1) hour or less after receiving seven (7) hours' rest as referred to above, he shall be allowed to work the period of one (1) hour or less at straight time rates at the beginning of his next scheduled shift.
14.26	An Employee requested by the Company to renew certification of his trade papers shall be allowed time off from work for such purposes. Such Employee will be reimbursed for any time lost during a day he would otherwise have worked.
ARTICLE 15
WAGES AND SHIFT PREMIUMS Wage Scale
15.01	a) The wage scale for the job classification is set forth in Appendix'^” andthe rateswill be effective commencing at 12.01 a.m.
yOn the date indicated in Appendix “A”.
A b) Employees shall receive a premium of seventy-five cents v($0.75) per hour while blasting, providedthey are licensedto do so.
: This premium shall be applicable only for the period while actually I performing blasting but in no case shall the premium be paid for I less than a one (1) hour period.
15.02	a) An Employee working during the afternoon shift shall ceive a shift premium of fifty-five cents ($0.55) per hour (4:00 p.m. - 12:00 midnight).
b) Effective February 1, 1991 an Employee working during the afternoon shift shall receive a shift premium of sixty-five <
($0.65) per hour
(4:00 p.m. - 12:00 midnight).	^
15.03	a) An Employee working during the night shift shall receive
a shift premium of fifty-five cents ($0.55) per hour	y/PfJO
(12:00 midnight- 8:00 a.m.).	W>^oP-'
b) Effective February 1, 1991 an Employee working during'’ the night shift shall receive a shift premium of sixty-five cents ($0.65) per hour
(12:00 midnight- 8:00 a.m.).
40
ARTICLE 16
NEW OR CHANGED JOBS
16.01	If the Company should combine job classifications, change job classifications and/or establish newjob classifications, the Company shall develop appropriatewage ratesfor the combined, changed or new job classifications in relation to jobs, job classifications and wage rates then in effect hereunder and will put such rates into effect. The Company will notify the Union, in writing, fifteen (15) days prior to such rates being placed into effect and, if requested, will meet with the Union to discuss said rate(s). The Company will also supply the Union with copies of job qualifications and requirements.
16.02	If the Union disagrees with the rate or rates so established after such rates have been in effect for thirty (30) working days a grievancemay befiledwithinfourteen(14)days thereafter inthe Third Step of the Grievance Procedure, Article 11 02	5 *

16.03	If the matter above is processed to Arbitration under Article 12, the Arbitrator shall in determiningthe rate(s), do so in relationship to the establishedjobs, job classification and wage rates as shown in Appendix A
>7
ARTICLE 17 HOLIDAYS Designated Holidays 17.01 New Year's Day
Heritage Day (Third Monday- February) Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Saskatchewan Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
41
Qualifications
17.02	The above named Holidays, when not worked by an Employee shall be paid as hereinafter, provided the Employee must be in active employment and currently working when the Holiday occurs. The term “active employment” and “currently working” shall mean an Employee who has not been absent for more than five (5) consecutive scheduled work days immediately preceding the Holiday. Holiday Pay
17.03	An Employee eligible for Holiday pay under the Provisions of the Article shall receive eight (8) hours straighttime pay at his regular straighttime ratefor all designated Holidayslisted in Article 17.01. If an eligible Employee is requiredto work on any above-mentioned Holidays, heshall be paid two (2) times his regularstraighttime hourly rate for all hours worked to a maximum of eight (8) hours on the designated Holiday in addition to his eight (8) hours straight time pay.
17.04	When a designated Holiday falls at any time during an Employee’s annual vacation, he shall be paid in accordance with 18.13.
17.05	An Employee who is scheduled to work on a Holiday and fails to report for such work, will not be entitled to Holiday pay as set forth inthe first paragraph of this section, except if the Employee is legitimately absent.
17.06	When a designated Holiday falls on an Employee’s regular day(s) of rest, his next regular scheduled work day(s) shall be paid attwo (2) times his regular straighttime hourly ratefor all hours worked to a maximum of eight (8) hours on such day(s), or the Employee may be given an additional day(s) of restto a maximum of eight (8) hours immediately following the designated Holiday(s).
17.07	For Employees whose regular scheduled work day is twelve (12) hours, the following shall apply:
a)	When a designated Holiday falls on a regular scheduled work day and the Employee works that day, he will receive eight (8) hours, straight time pay, plus the first eight (8) hours worked will be paid at doubletimerates and the next four (4) hours will be at straight time rates. Any succeeding hours worked will be at doubletime rates.
b)	When a designated Holidayfallson his regularscheduled days off, he will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay, if he satisfies the eligibility requirementsas outlined in Article 17.02. If he works the next regular shift, he will receive doubletime rates for the first
42
eight (8) hours and the next four (4) hours will be at straight time, if he satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02. Any succeeding hours worked will be at doubletime.
c) When a designated Holiday falls on an Employee’s regular scheduled work day and the Employee is given the day off, he will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay, if he satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02.
17.08	For Employees whose regular scheduled work day is ten (10) hours, the following shall apply:
a)	When a designated Holiday falls on a regular scheduled work day and the Employee works that day, he will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay, plus the first eight (8) hours worked will be paid at doubletime rates and the next two (2) hours will be at straight time rates. Any succeeding hours worked will be at doubletime rates.
b)	When a designated Holidayfalls on his regular scheduled days off, he will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay, if he satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02. If he works the next regular shift, he will receive doubletime rates for the first eight (8) hoursandthe next two (2) hours will beat straight time pay, if he satisifies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02. Any succeeding hours worked will be at doubletime rates.
c)	When a designated Holiday falls on an Employee’s regular scheduled work day and the Employee is given the day off, he will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay, if he satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02.
ARTICLE 18
jT/"! ANNUAL VACATIONS
' . ,.>'18.01 An Employee with one (1) year or more continuous service, t- but less than six (6) years of continuous service, will be eligible on ■•■■■ his anniversary date to one hundred and twenty (120) working hours r /f_of annual vacation! For every additional year of continuous service O* k? -after five (5) years, an additional eight (8) working hours of vacation ' will be added to the total annual vacation up to the tenth (10th) year rAs *: 18.02 An Employee with ten (10) years or more of continuous ser-''lc' " vice, but less than twenty (20) years of continuous service, will be t-LLCfi’ eligible, on his anniversary date, to one hundred and sixty (160) work-(0	' ing hours ofannuaTvacation
/4> / -t, /?, sr
43
18.03	For every additional year of continuous service after fifteen aJF
(15) years an additional eight (8) working hours of vacation will bej i AJ lq added to the total annual vacation up to the twentieth (20th) year. J^^Kr An Employee with twenty (20) years or more of continuous service) "t will be eligible, on his anniversary date, to two hundred (200) work-!1 ing hours of annual vacation	iCM/
18.04	An Employee must meet the requirementsof completed ser-’’' qJ
vice (anniversary date) in order to qualify for payment per 18.01, 'itf 18.02, and 18.03.	u
18.05	An Employee with ten (10) years or more of continuous service will receive at the time of his vacation a vacation bonus of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00). The Employee will be eligible
for the above mentioned bonus if his anniversary date falls at any “'’T time during that calendar year.	I
18.06	The vacation period shall extend from June 1stto May 31st of the following year. Vacation earned in one anniversary year and vacation earned in the next anniversary year may not be taken consecutively unless the Company approves the Employee's request for such. It is understood that in scheduling the vacation, full consideration of operating requirementsand the Employee'sservice will be given.
18.07	An Employee who is eligible for full vacation as provided in this Article shall receive forty (40) times his straight time hourly rate of pay for each week of vacation entitlement, and/or eight (8) times his straight time hourly rate of pay for each day of entitlement.
18.08	The straight time hourly rate shall be the permanent straight time hourly rate being paid to the Employee as of May 31st of each year.
18.09	a) To be eligible to receive full vacation pay for the vacation specified inthis Article, the Employee must have worked a minimum of 1,500 hoursduringthe precedingyear June 1st through May 31st.
b)	New Employees who have lessthan one (1) year of service shall receive vacation pay based on one and one quarter (1 1/4) days pay for each month of employment, provided the Employee worked at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the hours each month.
c)	Employees who work less than 1,500 hours in the vacation year June Istthrough May 31st, or Employees who terminate or are terminated in the vacation year June Istthrough May 31st and who work lessthan 1,500 hours, shall be paid pro-rated vaca-
44
tion pay based on the following formula: Number of hours worked divided by 1,500, times the number of hours of vacation eligibility, i.e.: 1,200 x 128 hours = 102.4 hours 1,500
18.10	Vacations are not cumulative and cannot be carried over to the following year.
18.11	NoJEmpfoyee may continue to work and draw vacation pay in lieu oftaking a vacation, unless by mutual agreement by the Union and the Company.
18.12	At anytime after June 15, upon 14 days notice in writing by an Employee, the Company shall issue to such Employee his vacation pay, to which he is entitled, in accordance with the terms of the Article, but in any case, vacation pay shall be issued to Employees prior to leaving on Vacation.
18.13	Should a designated Holiday fall at any time during an Employee's annual vacation period, such Employee may be granted an additional eight (8) hours off work with pay immediately following his vacation period in lieu of the designated Holiday. Should the Employee not be granted the additional day off with pay [eight (8) hours] in lieu of the designated Holiday, he will receive overtime pay for the first eight (8) hours worked after his vacation period, or the Employee may choose to bank eight (8) hours for his use at a later time.
18.14	If an Employee is confined to a hospital due to unforeseen circumstances during his vacation, such Employee may receive any unused sick pay benefitsfor each day of confinement, in accordance with the provisions of Article 20.
The Company will arrange to allow such Employee to take extra days of vacation at a later time equal to the number of days he received benefits while confined, but in no case shall the vacation period exceed the provisions under Article 18 - Annual Vacations.
Vacation Shutdown
18.15	A vacation shutdown period can be designated by the Company, provided each vacation shutdown period falls during the School Summer Vacation Period.
During such designated period, Employees not required to work by the Company will be required to take their vacation.
45
The Companywill notify employeesof a pending vacation shutdown by no later than May 1 in orderfor Employeesto plantheir vacation as far in advance as possible.
The vacation shutdown will be for a period of two (2) weeks, but the Company may extend the vacation shutdown to a maximum of one (1) additional week for a total of three (3) weeks.
During the third week of the vacation shutdown, the Employee will have the option of either remaining on vacation or taking unpaid leave.
ARTICLE 19 LEAVE OF ABSENCE Personal Leave
19.01	The Company may grant a personal leave of absence for a period of up to fourteen (14) calendar days without pay. Such leave may be extended by mutual agreement of the Parties. It is understood that the Company will consider, when deciding to grant or refuse a request for such leave:
a)	Whether such leave will interfere with the businessand operations requirementsof the Company.
b)	Whether a qualified replacementisavailableto replacethe Employee during the leave.
c)	Whether the denial of such leave would cause undue hardship to the Employee.
19.02	An Employee who requestsa leave of Absence shall request such leave in writing at least one (1) week in advance of such leave unlessthere was no possibilitythat the Employee had such prior knowledge of the necessity of the leave.
Sick Leave of Absence
19.03	The provisions of this sick leave of absence section do not affect sick leave benefits specified elsewhere in this Agreement.
19.04	Employees shall be granted a sick leave of absence, without pay,jDrovided:
a)	The leave is for personal illness or injury and the Employee is actually physically unable to report for or do his regular work.
b)	The leaveshall befbr a maximum periodof thirty-six(36) months if the Employee has ten (10) or more years of seniority. If an Employee has less than ten (10) years of seniority, the leave shall be for a maximum of twenty-four (24) calendar months, or a periodequal to the Employee's seniority, whichever is lesser; however, for this
46
purpose, every Employee is considered to have a minimum of one (1) year's seniority. The period referred to above may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
19.05	In all cases of sick leave, the Employee(s) shall, prior to returning to work and upon a request of the Company, submit to a medical examination by a qualified practitioner at the Company's expense to ensure that the Employee then has the required health qualifications.
19.06	Should the Employee return to work following the leave of absence, the Company will reinstate the Employee in his former job, if the job is still in existence and unchanged in content, provided the Employeeis still qualifiedto performthe work. If the job has been abolished or its content substantially changed, the Employee may displacethe junior Employee in a job grade which is equal or below his former job grade or the junior Employee on a job previouslyheld and for which he had qualified.
Union Leave of Absence
19.07	The Company shall grant a IJnion Leave of Absence as authorized in writing bythe local or national Union, without pay provided:
a)	Theabsencewill not interferewiththe business ancTOperational requirement of the Company.
b)	A qualified replacement is available at the time of the leave.
c)	The Union requeststhe leave, in writing, at least one (1) week in advance of such leave unlessthere was no possibility that the Union had such prior knowledge of the necessity for the leave.
It isfuther agreed that no morethan two (2) Employees shall be absent for more than thirty (30) calendar days at any one time, provided that the leave has been granted pursuantto paragraph 19.07. The total of the accumulated leaves may not exceed one hundred and twenty (120) days per year. Consideration will be given for special circumstances which may require extensions.
19.08	It is further agreed that no more than six (6) Employees shall be absent for more than seven (7) calendar days at any one time provided that the leave has been granted pursuantto paragraph 19.07. Consideration will be given for special circumstanceswhich may require extensions. t
>
Extended Leave for Union Business
19.09	An extended Leave of Absence, without pay butwitffmainte-nance, and accumulation of seniority up to one (1) year, shall be granted to a maximum of two (2) Employees at any one time, designated by the Unionfbrthe conducting of full time Union business on behalf of Local 892 or for E.C.W.U. Said leave shall be for not less than (1) month, nor more than one (1)year unless extended by mutal agreement by the Parties for up to another one (1) year period. Not more than one (1) Employee from any one (1) classification shall be allowed such leave at any one time.
19.10	Should the Employee return to work following the Leave of Absence, the Company will reinstate the Employee in his former job if the job is still in existence and unchanged in content provided the Employee is still qualified to perform the work. If the job has been abolished or its content substantially changed, the Employee may displace the junior Employee in a job grade which is equal or below his former job grade or the junior Employee on a job previously held and for which he had qualified.
Jury Leave and Crown Witness Leave
19.11	When an Employee is summoned to and reports for jury duty or Crown Witness duty, he shall be paid the difference between the daily amount received for jury services or Crown Witness service performed on a day that he otherwise would have been scheduled to work and does not work.
19.12	Such compensation shall be payable only if the Employee presentsa written statement from the appropriate Court Official showing the date and time served and the amount of payment received on each date.
Funeral Leave
19.13	a) Inthe case of the death of a member of the immediate family of an Employee, the Company, upon notification in advance, will grant a maximum of four (4) days paid funeral leave to be taken between the day of death and one day after the day of the funeral. It is understoodthat such paid leave will not be granted in instances when the Employee otherwise eligible does not attend the funeral.
In the event the funeral of a member of the immediate family of an Employee is held at a distance in excess of five hundred (500) miles from the Employee's residence, or where reason justifiable to the Company is presented, such Employee's funeral leave will be extended through the second day after the day of the funeral subject, however, to the four (4) day maximum paid funeral leave.
48
b)	An Employee may request and will be granted up to an additional fourteen (14) days leave,without pay, providing such request is made in writing.
c)	Inthe event an Employeeisrequiredto be an active pallbearer at the funeral of another Company Employee,the Company will grant the necessary time off and the Employeewill receive his normal day's pay, excluding any premiums,for the regular-scheduledtime absent on his shift.
Immediate Family
19.14	For the purposes of funeral leave, "immediatefamily" shall include the Employee's spouse, children, mother, father, brother, sister, mother and father-in-law, brother and sister-in-law and grandparents and grandchildren of the Employee or spouse; foster child, foster parent, legal ward or legal guardian, if the relationship has been legally established for a minimum period of twelve (12) months. Common-law status shall be recognized if the arrangement has been permanent for at least six (6) months or the Employee has notified the Company of the common-law status prior to the bereavement.
Rates of Pay
19.15	The Employeewill not be entitled to funeral leave pay for any day falling within the four-day leave of absence which is not a scheduled work day for the Employee,or when the Employee is absent from work due to vacation, holiday, injury, illness or leave of absence.
For each day of the four-day leave of absence for which the Employee is eligible to receive pay, he shall be paid a normal day's pay at straight time at the rate of his assigned job classification.
Maternity Pay
19.16	A maternity leave of absence shall be granted an Employee,TAJ-without pay, but with maintenance and accumulatlon.of seniority for" / a maximum period of sixJ6)jriDnths. An extension may be granted by mutual agreement ‘STtheParties.
19.17	Should the Employee return to work following the Leave of Absence, the Company will reinstatethe Employeein her former job, if the job is still in existence and unchanged in content, provided the Employee is still qualifiedto performthe work. Ifthe job has been abolished or its content substantially changed, the Employee may displacethe junior Employeein a job grade which is equal or below her former job grade or the junior Employee on a job previouslyheld and for which she had Qualified.
General
19.18	On all Leaves of Absence, all seniority is maintained and ac-cumulatedfor a period of one (1) year only. For Leaves of Absence during a second or successive years, seniority shall only be maintained but not accumulated.
/	An EmPl°yeewho becomesa candidate or iselectedto Pub-
Office, shall receive a leave of absence without loss of seniority "" oordance with Section 80 - Employment StandardsAct, 1977,

Educational Leave of Absence
19.20 An Employee may request a leave of absence to further his education for the sole purpose of advancement with the Company, by attending full time classes of instruction. Pre-employmSnHype instruction is not eligible for leave under this section.
Subject to the above, the Company will give consideration to such request conditional on the following:
-	the Employee must have two (2) or more years of service;
-	the leave will not interfere with the business requirements of the Company;
-	there is a qualified replacement for the affected Employee;
-	the leave is requested in writing at least three (3) months in advance, with all details of the instruction course;
-	the leave of absence does not exceed nine (9) months unless extended by the Company;
-	not more than one (1) leave is given at K1 and one (1) at K2 operations during any one time.
Such leaves, if granted by the Company, will require that the affected Employee actually attends each session of the course unless prevented by proven illness. If the Employee fails to attend each session of the course for reasons other than illness he will be terminated as an Employee of the Company.
Should the Employee return to work following a leave of absence as referred to above, the Company will reinstate the Employee in his former job, if the job is still in existence and unchanged in content, provided the Employee is still qualifiedto perform the work. Such Employee will be required to pass a required medical upon return from such leave.	/ _
(pZx3C.
L-*|
50
ARTICLE 20
SPECIAL TIME OFF WITH PAY	Q (o
20.01	a) Underspecial circumstances, an Employee will be granted time off with pay up to a maximum of si* ffi), pighi-fal hour days per calendar year. Employees will acciJimuiate unused days each calendar year. No pay out of accumulated days shall be made except when an Employee is required to be absent as provided hereinafter.
b)	For Employees working a compressed work week on a twelve (12) hour day schedule, under special circumstances, an Employee will be granted time off with pay up to a maximum of five (5) days per calendar year. Employeeswill accumulate unused hours each calendar year. No pay out of accumulated hours shall be made except when an Employeeis requiredto be absent as provided hereinafter.
It is understoodthat for accumulation purposes, should an Employee's job change or the compressedwork week be discontinued, the Employee has accumulated five (5), twelve (12) hour days or sixty (60) hours.
c)	After completing their probationary period, new Employees shall be entitled to pro-rated specialtime off with pay during their first year of employment.
20.02	Special time offj/vith pay may be taken for:
a)	illness or non-occilpatiOnal accident of the Employee;
b)	illnessofthespouseor child of an Employeeif such illness cau-A^ ses hospital confinement or bed confinement of the spouse if so di:TT^ rected by a doctor. Illnessshall be interpretedto include pregnancy- I related illness and delivery of a child. In the event of the birth of a * child to the spouse of the Employee, such Employee may take time
off with pay for the first day and to a maximum of two (2) days. Common-law status as defined in Article 19.14 will be recognized for the purpose of this section.
When an Employee is requiredto attend a member of his immediate family due to the critical nature of their illness or injury. The spouse, child, mother, father, sister and brother shall be recognized as im-mediate'famiiy;
c)	dental appointments of the Employee;
d)	appointments to see an eye specialist or optometrist for examination.
51
20.03	Pay will commence on the second consecutive work day of absence except:
a)	If the Employee is hospitalized, or is off work due to an accident, it will become effective on his first work day,
b)	For required dental appointments of the Employee only, it will become effective on his first work day. An Employee shall be limited to sixteen (16) hours per calendar year. For required eye examination appointment of the Employee only, it will become effective on his first work day. An Employee shall be limited to eight (8) hours per calendar year.
c)	In the case of Article 20.02 (b) above, pay will be limited to a maximum of two (2) consecutive work days on any one instance, except when an Employee is required to attend a member of his immediate family due to the critical nature of their illness or injury, as substantiated by the Employee and accepted by the Company, then during such period the two day limitation will be extended to a period sufficient for the purpose, but in no case longer than the total number of accumulated days held by the Employee under Article 20.01. The paid benefit shall commence on the second day of absence of the Employee.
d)	If an Employee leaves work because of illness during the first half of his shift, that day will becounted in calculating hiswailing period.
e)	When an Employee has been absent as provided herein for a period in excess of three (3) consecutive scheduled work days, he will be compensated for four (4) hours pay on the first day of absence if working a twelve (12) hour day, or two (2) hours if working a ten (10) hour day.
20.04	In order to receive such pay, the Employee will provide the Company with a medical certificate or other proof of entitlement, as may be required by the Company.
20.05	When an Employee is absent under this Article and a designated Holiday occurs, he shall only be paid eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate and such payment shall not result in a reduction of any ofthedaysoff as described in 20.01 above, provided he satisfies the eligibility requirements as outlined in Article 17.02.
20.06	Employee(s) will not be entitled to the benefits:
a)	Under this Article during any periods when an Employee is ab-sentfrom work due to vacation, holiday, leave of absence, or layoff;
b)	Employee(s) will be eligible for payfor only those days for which the Employee would have otherwise been scheduled for work.
52
ARTICLE 21 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
21.01	During the lifetime of the Agreement, the Group Insurance Plan as described in the "Benefits Handbook for Hourly Employees atEsterhazy, Saskatchewan"will be maintained except as amended hereafter.
It is understood that disability benefits are payable only after an Employee has exhausted his sick pay benefits as provided in Article 20, Special Time Off With Pay.
21.02 The amended benefits are effective February 1, 1990, and are as follows:	TtV'Njn
A) Short Term Disability
1)	Premiumsto be fully paid by the Company.
2) If your disability results from a non-occupational injury, income benefits will be payable from the first scheduled work day you are uableto report for work, uptoa maximumof thirty (30) weeks during any one period of disability.
3)	If your disability results from a non-occupational illness, income benefits will be payable from the fourth (4th) day after the first scheduled work day you were unable to report to work, up to a maximum of thirty (30) weeks during any one period of disability.
4) Effective February 1, periods of disability will
1990 benefits for the above mentioned, be sixty-five percent (65%) of normal
-earnings to a maximum of four hundred and twenty-five dollars f ($425 00

(rh
($425.00) per week.
5) Effective February 1, 1991 benefits for the above-mentio'he'd periods of disability will be sixty-five percent (65%) of normal earnings to a maximum of four hundred and fifty dollars ($450.00)per week.	a:c
B) Long Term Disability
if
1)	Fifty percent (50%)of the premiums paid by the Company and fifty percent (50%) paid by the Employees.
2)	Benefits- Effective February 1, 1990 - sixty-five percent (65%) of normal earnings, including fifty percent (50%) of Canada Pension Plan Benefits, to a maximum of two thousand, one hundred dollars ($2,100.00) per month. Effective February 1, 1991 sixty-five percent (65%) of annual earnings, including fifty percent (50%) of Canada Pension Plan Benefits to a maximum of two thousand, three hun-
dred dollars ($2,300 00) per month^.-
3)	It is understoodand agreed that the Long Term Disability Benefit shall be fixed at the level of benefitsthe Employee was eligible for at the time of disability, exceptfor employeescovered by the Current London Life policy, who will be eligibleto the benefits provided in B. 2. above.
C) General
Eligibilityfor entrance into the above plans shall be as provided for in the applicable benefit plan policy. None of the above benefits will be reduced as a result of the Employee holding private insurance. All benefits under this Article shall be based on the job title rate of the Employee at the time of commencement of receipt of any of the benefits. The Company agrees to distribute a copy of the Group Insurance Booklet to all Employees.
D) Dental Plan
A Dental Insurance Plan will be established covering an Employee and spouse, where applicable, with the Employee payingtwenty percent (20°/o) of the dental bill and the Plan paying eighty percent (80%) of the dental bill.
The Company will pay thie full cost ofjhe pjarr_
The Dental Plan will not have a maximum limit, and willfinclude < thodontia.	sb****—
The dental plan will include unmarried, dependent children to age nineteen (19) or age twenty-three (23) if the child is a full-time student at an accredited school and remains dependent. The dependent children referred to above shall be eligible for defined major services including orthodontia benefits and shall be payable at fifty percent (50°/o) of normal and customary charges under the Saskatchewan Dental Association Fee Schedule.
To be eligible for payment of a Dental bill, an Employee'scharges as submitted to the Company for payment must conform with the regulations of the Plan as outlined, and the Saskatchewan Dental Association Fee Schedule.	"
D) Vision Care
Effective February 1, 1991 as part of the Group Benefits Program, each employee, spouse and dependent child will be eligible for vision care in the amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per person during any consecutive twenty-four (24) month period.
54
General
21.03	In the event an Employee who has been injured on the job and who has subsequently receiveda MedicalCertificatestatingthat he is fit for work, the Company will make a special eftortto offer employment tCLSuch Employee within bis-ability for jobs that have be-corfreavailable. The time limitforsuch considerationunderthis clause issubjectto Article 19.04(b) of the Collective BargainingAgreement.
21.04	Tools and clothing shall be defined in Exhibit I.
21.05	The Company agrees to offer assistance to office Employees who desire to continue their education towards a Certified Management Accountant or Certified General Accountant designation.Those
\ Employees currently employed in the general administration office *y-\ J^o'f the Company, who enroll in a correspondence course of study Is-/' as offered in the above provisions will be eligible for-the following:
Sfh a) Reimbursementof 90% of the cost of yearly tuition, registration ’ and examination fees.
b) Reimbursementof 90% of the cost of course required books.
To receive the reimbursement of the costs referred to above, the Employee must pass the yearly examination.
Office Employees who have been enrolled in and have completed certainlevelsoftheC.M.A. orC.G.A. CorrespondenceCoursesshall be paid a premium rate in addition to their regular rate of pay for all hours worked as follows:
a)	After successful completion of the first year $0.25 per hour.
b)	After successful completion of the second year $0.50 per hour.
c)	After successful completion of the third year $0.75 per hour.
d)	After successful completion of the fourth year $1.00 per hour.
e)	After attainment of C.M.A., C.G.A. or B. Commerce Degree $1.50 per hour.
To be eligible for the above-mentioned premium, Employees must submit official transcripts of marks from C.M.A., C.G.A. or B. Commerce Degree.
It is understood that the premium rate will only be paid if the Employee retains employment as an Office Employee in the Administration Department.
55
ARTICLE 22 Ty
PENSIONS S\ ' l(
22.01	During the life of this Agreement, the Retirement Benefits as described in the Company’s pamphlet entitled “Benefits Handbook for Hourly Employees at Esterhazy Saskatchewan” will be maintained.
22.02	a) Effective February 1,1990, the Pension Plan Summary shall includea monthly pension of twenty-eight dollars ($28.00) per month times years of service.
b) EffectiveFebruaryl, 1991 the Pension Plan Summary shall includea monthly pension of thirty dollars ($30.00) per monthtimes years of service and will provide for Spousal Pension Benefits.
22.03	The monthly pension as determined above will be in addition" to any moniesa retiree may receiveffom C.P.P. and Old Age Benefit
22.04	An Employee will be entitled to full vested Retirement & efits after ten (101 years of seniority, or when the Employee's age^i plus total years of continuous service reach a sum of at least forty- - " five (45).
22.05	While the normal retirement for all employees is age sixty-five (65), all eligible employees after reaching the age of sixty-two(62)_-
lefits <l£y
J\
shall be entitled to early retirement with ,no reduction.in benefi
ARTICLE 23
NOTICES
23.01	Any notices required to be made to one party or the other shall be addressed as follows:
-	To the Company:
International Minerals& Chemical Corporation (Canada) Limited
Attention - Industrial Relations Manager Esterhazy, Saskatchewan S0A 0X0
-	To the Union:
Local 892, Energy & Chemical Workers Union
Attention - Unit Chairman
P.O. Box 1509
Esterhazy, Saskatchewan
S0A OXO
56
ARTICLE 24
SAFETY AND HEALTH Preamble
24.01	The Parties, in recognizing the importance of an active program to promote safety and health in working conditions and practice, have agreed as follows:
24.02	In matters pertaining to Safety and Occupational Health, the Saskatchewan Occupational Health & Safely Act shall be the basic guide in the development of and implementationof a Safety and Occupational Health Program.
24.03	The Company agrees to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its Employees during the hours of employment.
24.04	The Union agrees that careful observance of safe working practices and safety rules is a primary duty of all Employees. The Company agrees that there will be uniform enforcement of such rules among Employees in scope and said rules shall be enforced without discrimination among said Employees.
24.05	For the continued protection of its Employees,the Company retains its right to require any Employee to submit to a physical examination at the Company'sexpense by a Company designated physician at any time or from time to time to determine the fitness of such Employee. The Company has the right to utilize the report of the physical examination to aid it in determining whether the Employee can perform his duties in a safe and satisfactory manner.
24.06	The parties agree that safety and health problems be resolved as quickly as practicable.
24.07	It shall be every Employee's responsibility, whether in or out of scope, to encourage the use of and to follow the established safety procedures.
Safety and Health Committees
24.08	There shall be established four (4) Safety and Health Committees with Union representation as follows:
a)	K1 and K2 Underground Operations- two (2) Employeesfrom K1 and two (2) Employeesfrom K2.
b)	K1 and K2 Surface Operations - two (2) Employees from K1 and two (2) Employeesfrom K2.
57
The number of Company representativeson the above committees may be equal to the number of Union Representatives, but in no case shall the number exceed the number of Union representatives. The Parties shall select their members on each Committee and the persons designated as co-chairman of each Committee.There shall be two (2) co-chairmenfor each underground operation. Chairmanship of each Committee shall alternate on a meeting basis.
When one co-chairman is acting as Chairman, the other will act as Secretary. Each Party may select alternate members for each Committee who may be called to act in the absence of regular Committee members.
24.09	The purpose ofthe joint Safety and Health Committees shall be:
a)	to consider and review safety and health conditions and complaints and accidents referred to it by Employees:
b)	to participate in the identification of safety hazards;
c)	to prepare advisory recommendationsthereto;
d)	to maintain records in connection with the receipt and disposition of Employeecomplaints in referenceto Safety and Health matters.
24.10	Each Party shall notify the other Party in writing of the names of its appointees and alternates to the respective Safety and Health Committees. The Parties shall not recognize members of any committee unless notice in writing has been given by an authorized official of the other party.
24.11	There shall be established, by mutual agreement, a set day and time on a bimonthly basis for each Committee to meet and review matters referredtothem.jMI Committee meetingsshall besche-y duled during regular working hours. An Employee shall not suffer,,. ) f/j/loss of regular, straiaht-time pay for participating in such meetings, KjZj or other activity referred to hereafter in Accident and Occupational rt/lHealth Officer Investigations. Priorto leaving their jobs to attend Safety and Health matters, Committee members must obtain permission from their Supervisor.
24.12	Special meetingswill be held upon request of either the Company or the Union when a serious accident or fatality occurs.
24.13	Minutes of each Committee meeting signed by both cochairmen, shall be distributedto respective Committee members and posted on bulletin boards within one (1) week after any meeting.
58
Procedure
24.14	An Employee who believes a matter exists which falls under the jurisdiction of a Safety and Health Committee shall submit the matter in writing to his immediate Supervisor. The Supervisor will respond in writing to the Employee within five (5) calendar days. If the Employee is dissatisfied with the Supervisor's answer, he will then notify a co-chairman of the Committeefor his area of the matter. The matter will then be placed on the agenda for consideration at the next following meeting of the Committee for the area involved. For the purpose of this Article, a Steward shall be considered an Employee.
24.15	Unresolved matters referred to under 24.14 above shall be discussed at the next Committee meeting for the area concerned, following its submissionto a co-chairman of such Committee. At such meeting, recommendationsshall be rendered (if any) as to what should be done with the matter. The matter shall then be taken up at the next meeting of the Committee and the Company shall advise the Committee of what action it has or proposed to take, if any, on the matter. If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved at this point in the procedure,the matter shall be referredto the President, General Manager of the operation for review and decision.
24.16	If the President, General Manager’s decision is unsatisfactory or not given in a reasonabletime, the matter may then be referred by a co-chairman of the Committee to an Occupational Health Officer for review and/or recommendation.
24.17	It is agreed that reasonable amount of time as used herein is defined as the amount of time needed to analyze and evaluate the matter.
Accidents
24.18	Accidents involving serious injury may be investigated by both co-chairmen of the committee for foe area involved witn a written report submitted to such committee.
24.19	If an Occupational Health Officer requests that he be accompanied on a investigation of the operation, the co-chairman of the Committee for the area involved shall accompany him.
59
(<pp'
Employee who refusesto work in an area, as provided for in Section 26 of the Occupational Health and Safely Act, shall notify his supervisor immediately.
ARTICLE 25
CONTRACTING
25.01	So far as practicable with the work force available, normal maintenance, repair and production work which has been done regularly by the Company's own Employees will continue to be done by such Employees.
25.02	New construction, installation or modification of equipment, major repairs, major maintenance, major overhaul work or other work not regularly done by the Company's own Employees may be done by outside contractors.
This clause is not intended to restrict the Company to let contracts when it feels necessary, economical, or expedient to do so, such as not having the necessary equipment, supervision or Employees immediately available with the necessary skills, or when peaks of work would require a temporary increase of the Company's forces with subsequent layoff of such forces.
25.03	If it becomes necessary to contract out work as provided for above, the Company agrees to give a written notification of the reasons for such contracting out to a designated representative of the Union prior to the work being performed. If time does not permit, the Company shall notify a Union official and follow with a written notice. In the notification,the Company will give the name of the contractor, the approximate number of personnel involved, the approximate duration and the job to be performed.
25.04	The Company will not cause an Employee to be laid off, de-, moted, terminated or transferred by bringing in outside contractors,/'' to perform normal maintenance repair or production work on the plant premises.
ARTICLE 26
WORK BY SUPERVISORS
26.01	It is recognized that the duties of a Supervisor are of a supervisory nature. Accordingly, the Supervisorsshall not perform work such as that performed by the Employees covered by this Agreement except:
a)	In emergencies for protection of Company property and/or the safety and health of Employees.
b)	In the direct instruction and direct training of Employees.
c)	Work of a research and development nature.
ARTICLE 27
BULLETIN BOARDS
27.01	The Company will provide the Union bulletin boards in appropriate places where Employees will be able to see and read them. Bulletin boxes supplied by the Union will be affixed in agreed upon locations so that Union bulletins may be distributed.
27.02	Only bulletins authorized by the Local 892 Executive will be posted or distributed. Signed copies of the bulletin will be forwarded to the Director of Industrial Relations as proof of responsibility of the content before posting or distribution by the Union.
27.03	The Union agrees that said notices to be posted or distributed shall not be inflammatory or political.
27.04	The Company and Union agree that the posting or distribution by Employees of notices, pamphlets, advertising or political matters will not be sanctioned.
ARTICLE 28
LEGALITY OF PROVISIONS
28.01	This Agreement shall at all times conform with all applicable laws of the Province of Saskatchewan, and/or the Dominion of Canada. If any section or part of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid due to a change in law, the remaining provisions shall be given full force and effect as completely as if the part held invalid had not been included therein.
ARTICLE 29
COMPLETE AGREEMENT
29.01	It is agreed that this Agreement contains the complete understanding between the Parties for the term of this Contract. Any additions, deletions, changes, amendments or waivers affecting the terms of this Agreement shall only be discussed by mutual agreement of both Parties. Any Agreements, amendments, or changes arrived at as a result of such discussion shall become effective upon being reduced to writing and signed by both Parties.
61
ARTICLE 30
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
30.01	This Agreement shall be binding upon the Parties from the 1st day of February. 1990 and shall remain in force and effectthrough the 3Tst day of January. 1992. .and from year to year thereafter, but either Party may, not lessthan thirty (30) days or more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the termination date hereof, give notice in writing to the other Party to terminate or negotiate revisions to this Agreement.
30.02	At the first meeting for commencement of negotiations, both Parties shall submit, one to the other, in writing, their proposals.
30.03	Negotiations are to commence within thirty (30) days' notice for a revision of this Agreement or for a new Agreement.
62
DATED at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan this 28th day of March, 1990.
On behalf of:
LOCAL 892, ENERGY & CHEMICAL
On behalf of:
iTIONAL MINERAL_________
iTION. (CANADA) LIMITED
On behalf of:
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS & CHEMICAL
63
EXHIBIT 1
TOOLS AND CLOTHING
A)	Tools
1)	The Company will issue to Employees at no cost all tools as required in the opinion of the Company for the performance of work by the Employees. Each Employee upon being issued tools shaH acknowledge receipt of such tools by signing for them.
2)	Tools worn out or defective will be maintained or replaced by the Company.
3)	Tools lost in the line of duty or stolen as determined by the Supervisor will be replaced by the Company. Repeated claims by any one Employee for replacement of tools will be deemed evidence of negligence and, in such cases, replacement may be denied.
4)	The cost of any tools not returned in good condition, normal wear excepted, upon request of the Company or upon termination of employment shall be withheld from any wages due and payable to the Employee.
5)	Any tools notreturnedshall be paidfor by the Employeeattheir reasonable depreciatedvalue and shall becomethe property of the Employee.
6)	Depreciationshall be equalto forty percent (40%) atthe end of one (1) year and ten percent (10%) atthe end of the second year, but in no event shall a tool have a depreciatedvalue of less than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value.
B)	Clothing
The Company will supply protective apparel as deemed necessary to Employees on the following basis:
1)	Slickers: Shaftmen and Cage Tender K1 - Other Employees requiringslickersfrom time to time will be allowed to use such, through their Supervisor upon request- no cost to the Employee.
2)	Welder's Sleeves and Welder's Gloves: Supplied to Welders and those requiredfo weld on exchange basis. No cost to Employee.
3)	PrescriptionGlasses: No more than one (1) pair each year on an exchange basis. If an Employee damages his prescription glasses while at work through no negligenceon his part and providing repair or replacement of such prescription glasses are not covered by Worker's Compensation, then the Company will repair or replace such prescription glasses. Such prescription glasses shall be reg-
64
ular Company issue The Company shall not be obligated to pay any costs relating in any way to eye examinations The cost of prescription glasses shall be paid by the Company
4)	Hard Hats, Liners, Suspensions, Goggles, Welder's Hoods: Will be supplied, as deemed necessary by the Company, at no cost to Employees.
5)	Parkas: Employees requiring parkas from time to time will be allowed to use such through their Supervisor upon request - at no cost to the Employee.
6)	Gloves: Employees requiring gloves will be issued a maximum of one (1) pair of gloves each two month period on an exchange basis, at no cost to the Employee.
7)	Boots: During each calendar year, the Company will supply:
a)	two (2) pairs of safety boots or four (4) pairs of rubber boots, or;
b)	one (1) pair of safety bootsandtwo (2) pairs of rubber boots; upon completion of his probation period to those Employees requiring such. Boots must be exchanged after initial issue and must be worn out prior to reissuing a new pair. Selection shall be limited to those styles carried in the Company warehouse stock. Employees changing from rubber boots to leather safety boots, during the year, will be deducted for the cost of the original rubber boots.
8)	The above articles of safety apparel or equipment will only be replaced by the Company, upon normal wear and tear by the Employee, through normal usage on the Company premises. The depreciated cost of any of the above articles, not returned upon request of the Company, or upon termination of employment,'shall be withheld from any wages due and payable to the Employee.
9)	Snow Suits: The Company will maintaina limitedsupply ofsnow suits, which will be available through an Employee's Superviser, in cases of short term use in emergency situations in extreme weather. The snow suits must be returned to the supervisor immediately after the specific period of use by the Employee.
65
Mine Department
Mine Technician I Mine Operator Alpine Miner Operator
Mine Technician II Hoistman Shaftsman 1
Mine Technician II A Shaftsman II
Mine Technician III Extensible Belt Operator Loader Operator Shuttle Car Operator Scoop Tram Operator Cage Tender
APPENDIX “A’
Previous
Rate
17.55
16.95
15.50
15.11
Feb.	Feb.
01/90	01/91
18.69	19.81
18.05	19.13
16.51	17.50
16.09	17.06
Pay	Job
Grade	Code
17
6110
6120
16
6210
6220
13
6410
12
6310
6320
6330
6340
6360
Mill Department
Mill Technician 1 A Central Control Operator Central Control/Boiler Operator Mill Technician I U/G Water Pump Operator XLR Operator I Loadout Operator I Mill Technician II A Area I Refinery Operator K1 Process Operator K2 Mill Technician II oj	XLR Operator II
Loadout Operator II Screening Operator K1 Screening Operator K2 Area II Refinery Operator K1
17.29
16.61
15.50
15.11
18.41
17.69
16.51
16.09
Mill Technician III Drying Operator K1 Compacting Operator KCL Loadout Operator —Tfect3imT5peraf(
Mill Technician IV Crusher Operator Loadout Operator I Reagent Mixer
19.51
18.75
17.50
17.06
16.37
15.67
16F
7000
7010
15
7110
7130
7140
13
7510
7520
12
7230
7260
7270
7280
7290
10
7320
7330
7350
7370
08
7410
7440
7450
Maintenance Department
Maintenance Technician I Boiler Operator 2nd Class with Refrigeration Papers Journeyman Electrician Journeyman Auto Mechanic a>	Journeyman Heavy Duty Repair
00	Journeyman Machinist
Journeyman Industrial Mechanic
Journeyman Welder Journeyman Instrumentation Pressure Welder with Certificate
Maintenance Technician IA Boiler Operator 2nd Class Ground Control Operator I
APPENDIX "A"
Previous	Feb.
Rate	01/90
( 17.68 /	18.83
Feb.
01/91
19.96
Pay
Grade
17D
Job
Code
s>
J
8010
8020
8030
8040
8050
8060
8070
8080
8090
16.95	18,05	19.13
8120
8130
Maintenance Technician II Surface Water Control I Instrument Man I Electrician I
Heavy Duty Mechanic I Auto Mechanic I Machinist I Mechanic I Welder I
Electric Motor Rebuild 1
Maintenance Technician III Electric Motor Rebuild II Electrician II U/G Belt Construction I Heavy Duty Mechanic II Ground Control Operator II Machinist II Mechanic II Welder II F.R.P. I
Instrument Man II Auto Mechanic I
16.61
15.11
17.69
18.75
15
8200
8210
8220
8230
8250
8260
8270
8280
8290
16.09	17.06	12
8300
8310
8320
8330
8340
8350
8360
8370
8380
8390
Maintenance Technician IV Machinist III Repairman I F.R.P. II
Instrument Man III Electrician III U/G Belt Construction II Buildings Repair I Heavy Duty Repairman I
Maintenance Technician V Repairman II Buildings Repair II Heavy Duty Repairman II
Labour
Office and Technical Journeyman Mechanical Draftsperson Journeyman Electrical Draftsperson
14.50
13.88
Previous
Rate
17.68
17.68
15.44	16.37	10
8420
8430
8440
8450
8460
8470
8480
8490
14.78	15.67	08	8510
			8520
			8530
Feb.	Feb.	Pay	Job
01/90	01/91	Grade	Code
13.75	14.20	06	9030
12.50	13.00	03	9040
			
18.83	19.96	36	2010
18.83	19.96	36	2020
Metallurgical Technician	16.61
Mine Technician	16.61
Laboratory T echnician	16.61
Inventory Control	16.61
Mechanical Draftspersonl	16.61
Electrical Draftsperson 1	16.61
Laboratory Operator 1	15.11
Mine Technician II	15.11
Mechanical Draftsperson II	15.11
Electrical Draftsperson II	15.11
Surveyor 1	14.70
Rock Mechanic Analyst	14.70
Surface Water	
Control Technician	14.70
Warehouseman 1	14.48
Laboratory Operator II	14.50
Cost Accountant	13.94
Mechanical Draftspersonlll	14.48
Electrical Draftspersonlll	14.48
Surveyor II	13.29
General Accounting Clerk	13.05
Warehouseman II	13.05
Warehouse Dispatch	13.05
General Clerk	13.05
17.94	19.27	35	2110
17.94	19.27	35	2140
17.94	19.27	35	2150
17.69	18.75	34	2130
17.69	18.75	34	2160
17.69	18.75	34	2170
16.24	17.36	33	2210
16.24	17.36	33	2220
16.09	17.06	32	2230
16.09	17.06	32	2240
15.82	16.92	31	2310
15.82	16.92	31	2320
15.82	16.92	31	2330
15.66	16.84	30	2510
15.61	16.72	29	2410
15.18	16.42	28	2610
15.42	16.35	27	2520
15.42	16.35	27	2530
14.37	15.45	26	2810
14.23	15.41	25	2720
14.21	15.37	24	2750
14.21	15.37	24	2770
13.90	14.73	23	2710
Accounts Payable Clerk Keypunch Operator I
11.43	12.47	13.52	22
11.43	12.47	13,52	22
Keypunch Operator II Clerk Typist
10.90	11.94	12.99	21
10.90	11.94	12.99	21
Switchboard Operator
10.81	11.87	12.94
20
-4
ro
2910
2920
3010
3020
3110
APPENDIX B - OFFICE & TECHNICAL
Journeyman Mechanical Draftsperson			Journeyman Electrical Draftsperson
					1
Mechanical Draftsperson			Electric* Draftsperson
~				—i—
MechantaP Oraftsjprson			Electrical Draftsperson
			j
Mechanical Draftsperson III			Electrical Draftsperson III
Met. Tech, ft | Ub. Tech.
_______J
Lab
Operator
Operator
N
Rock
Mechanics
Technician
Surface
Water
Analyst
Cost
Accountant
General
Accounting
Clerk
Accounts Paytbfe Qerk		Keypunch 1
	i			
Qerk		Keypunch
Typist		II
I
Switchboard
Operator
General
dark
Mme/Prod.
APPENDIX B - MINE DEPARTMENT
74
APPENDIX B- MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
ut
Tech. 1 Tech. 1A Tech. II Tech. Ill Tech. IV Tech. V
APPENDIX B - K2 WILL DEPARTMENT
o>
APPENDIX B - K1 MILL DEPARTMENT
-s|
APPENDIX B - WATER RECOVERY
APPENDIX C
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
A)	Purpose
The purpose of the program is to provide a means of training and developing tradesman of the highest calibrator I.M.C. further, to provide environment and incentive which will assist Employees to achieve their maximum potential.
The program is recognized as requiring the active participation of the Company and the Union, the Employee, and various levels of Government.
B)	Coverage
The program will cover trades designatedas necessary or advisable by the Company.
The number of apprentices required for each trade and number of apprentices at each level within each trade shall be determined from time to time by the Company. The Company will inform the Union of changes in the number of apprentices at each level of each trade. However, once an Employee is accepted in the plan, he will be allowed to progress through the full apprenticeship subject to the provisions of this program or the terms of the Collective BargainingAgree ment.
C)	General
1)	Standards for entry in the program shall be determined by the Company in accordance with the provisionsof Article 9, Seniority. Any interviews or examinations in relation to an Employee's entry into the Apprenticeship Program or interviews while in the Program will be done on Company time with no loss of pay. Any preliminary tests conducted by the Company shall only be in relation to the Employee's aptitude for his particular trade. The Union may have a representative to peruse the content of the type of tests used.
2)	The Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour shall determine at what level an applicant fits into the Apprenticeship Program and that is the level at which an applicant will be placed.
3)	The Company and each accepted applicant shall execute an apprenticeship contract in the form provided by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour.
79
4)	No Employee in the Maintenance Department not participating inthe Apprenticeship Program will be denied promotion, laid off, or terminated as a result of the Company posting for an opening in the Apprenticeship Program.
An Employee bidding into the Apprenticeship Program in a trade currently being held by said Employee shall retain his rate if it is higher until his apprenticeship rate surpasses it, at which time he shall progress to the higher rate.
Inthe event a maintenance Employee enters into the Apprenticeship Program and is subsequently removed from the Plan in accordance with this Agreement and his apprenticeship rate is higher than his rate prior to bidding, he will revert back to his old job title and applicable rate of pay.
5)	Employees accepted into the Program will enter into a preliminary agreement of apprenticeship with the Company for a period of three (3) months. Such agreement will be registered with the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch. If, at the end of the aforementioned three (3) months preliminary period both the Employee and the Company are satisfied to continuethe agreement of apprenticeship, a contractor indenture will be made and registered with the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch.
The three (3) month period shall start at the time the Employee is transferred into the Program. However, such transfer must take place within thirty (30) calendar days after being awarded the job.
6)	The Company and each accepted applicant shall execute an apprenticeship contract in the form provided by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour, provided that where the terms of the contract provided by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour differ from the terms set out in this Article, the terms of the Agreement shall govern.
7)	Rates of Pay:
Apprentice 4: (B) 0 - 6 Months - equivalent to Helper rate.
Apprentice 4: (A) 6 - 12 Months- equivalentto Maintenance
Tech. V rate.
Apprentice 3:12 - 24 Months- equivalentto Maintenance Tech.
IV rate.
Apprentice2: 24 - 36 Months- equivalentto Maintenance Tech.
Ill rate.
Apprenticel :36-48 Months- equivalentto Maintenance Tech.
II rate.
80
8)	The basis of the pay schedules in (7) is that after the introductory period (Apprentice 4 level) an apprentice will only move to the next pay rate after having the required months of experience and after having successfully completed the course as prescribed by the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship Branch In the event the Employee attends school before his apprenticeship anniversary date and passes, he shall only receive the increased rate when he has the required time and conversely if he attends school after his apprenticeship anniversary date, he shall be paid retroactively to his anniversary date upon successfully completing school
9)	The Company will schedule an approved Leave of Absence for an apprentice to go to the appropriate technical institute as approved by the Apprentice Branch.
10)	An apprentice who attends the required training course shall be entitled to receive from the Company an amount equal to the difference between what he would have received on a straight time basis for each day he would normally have worked during this period if not attending the training course and what the apprentice receives from any provincial or federal government department or agency by way of a basic living allowance for each day that the apprentice is in attendance at the training school, provided, however, that if an apprentice is absent from training school on a day on which he is required to attend, then in such case he shall not be entitled to be paid under the Collective Agreement. "Living Away From Home" and "Travelling" allowances paid by the Government will not betaken into considerationwhen calculatingthe amount of makeup pay to which the Employee is entitled from I.M.C. Notwithstanding the above, where an apprentice has failed the required examinations at any one level and he repeats same, he shall receive no pay difference from the Company for repeating such course, at that level.
11)	An apprentice may be removed from the training program by the Company or upon request of the Employee and his apprenticeship contract cancelled at any time during the three (3) months preliminary period and if the apprentice was prior to his entrance into the Apprenticeship Program, a member of the Bargaining Unit, he shall be returned to the job classificationthat he was in prior to his entry in the Apprenticeship Program
81
12)	An apprentice who has completed his probationary period may be removed from the Apprenticeship Program and his apprenticeship contract cancelled for any of the following reasons:
a)	Just cause;
b)	If an apprentice fails to take the training course when he is scheduledto take same, providedthat hisfailure to take such course is not due to a cause beyond his control;
c)	If an apprenticefails a training course at any one level on more than one occasion.
In the event of an Employee being removed from the Apprenticeship Program, he will be returned to the job classification he was in prior to the time of his entry into the Apprenticeship Program.
13)	Progressionto Journeyman status shall take place and the Employee will be paidthe Journeyman rate of pay when the Employee successfully completes his apprenticeship and/or presents his certificate to the Industrial Relations Department of the Company.
14)	For all Employees enrolled in the Apprenticeship Program, the Company shall reimburse an Employee for driving his own automobile at the rate of twelve cents (50.12) per kilometer to cover one round trip from Esterhazy to the appropriate apprenticeship school on the basis of once per session.
All Articles of this plan shall be considered as part of the collective Agreement between I.M.C. and Local 892.
82
Calendar - 1990
S M T W T F
7
14
21
28
JANUARY
2	3	4
9	10	11
IS 17	13
23	24	25
30	31
2 9
15	17
JULY
3 4 10 11
5 S 12	13
22	23	24	25
29	30	31
18	19	20	21
28	27	23
FEBRUARY
2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	5	6
11	12	13	14	15	18	17	12	13
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	19	20
25	28	27	28	28	27
AUGUST
1 2
8	9
15	18
22	23
7
14
21
23	29
3
10
17
24
31
4
11
13
25
8
15
22
29
5
12
19
28
2
MARCH,
6	7	3
13	14	15
20 21 22
23	24
27	28	29	30	31
9
18	17	18	19	20
23	24	25	28	27
30
2
9
16
23
30
SEPTEMBER
3	4	5	8	/
10	11	12	13	14
17	18	19	20	21
24	25	26	27	28
1 OCTOBER
2	3	4
8	9	10	11
15	18	17	13
22	23	24	25
29	30	31
3
10
17
24
JUNE
1
5	6	7	8
12	13	14	15
19	20	21	22
28	27	28	29
2
9
16
23
30
DECEMBER
2
9
18
23
30
3	4	5	6	7	8
10	11	12	13	14	15
17	18	19	20	21	22
24 31	25	26	27	28	29
I
Calendar -1991
S M T W T F S
S M T W T F S
JANUARY
2	3
6	7	8	9	10	11
13	14	15	16	17	18
20	21	22	23	24	25
27	28	29	30	31
1
8
15
21	22	23	24
28	29	30	31
JULY
2	3	4
9	10	11
16	17	-18
25
19	20
26	27
3
10
17
FEBRUARY
-1
5	6	7	8
12	13	14	15
19	20	21	22
24	25	26	27	28
AUGUST
4
11
18	19
25	26
1
8
15
22
28	29
2	3
9	10
16	17
23	24
30	31
3
10
17
24
MARCH
6	7
13	14
18	19
25	26
21
28	29
15	16
22	23
SEPTEMBER
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30
APRIL
2	3	4
8	9	10	11
15	16	17	18
5	6
12	13
19	20
22	23
29	30
24	25	26	27
OCTOBER
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31
6
13
20
27
MAY
1 2
8	9
15	16
22	23
3
10
17
24
28	29	30	31
NOVEMBER
3	4	5	6	7
10	11	12	13	14
17	18	19	20	21
24	25	26	27	28
1	2
8	9
15	16
22	23
29	30
2
9
16
23
30
JUNE
10	11	12	13	14
17	18	19	20	21
24	25	26	27	28
1
8
15
22
29
DECEMBER
2	3	4	5
9	10	11	„ 12
16	17	18' 19
23	24	25	26
29	30	31
6	7
13	14
20 21 27	28
THE MAJORITY OF UNSAFE ACTS ARE:
1.	Operating without authority.	’
2.	Failure to secure or warn.
3.	Operating at an unsafe speed.
4.	Making safety devices inoperative.
5.	Using unsafe equipment or tools.
6.	Operating a machine carelessly or recklessly.
7.	Using hands instead of equipment.
8.	Taking an unsafe position or posture.
9.	Loading, placing, mixing or combining unsafely.
10.	Working on moving or otherwise dangerous equipment.
11.	Annoying, startling, or distracting fellow workers.
12.	Failure to use proper safety apparel.
SAFETY FIRST
•	AT WORK
•	AT HOME