COLLECTIVE
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERS UNION
-AND
MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS (LARSEN PACKERS)
00250 (09)
September 18, 2009 - September!?, 2013
INDEX
ARTICLE	PAGE
1. DEFINITION	5
2. PURPOSE	6
3. RECOGNITION	6
4. CHECK-OFF	7
5. UNION SECURITY	8
6. STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS	10
7. WAGES	10
8. VACATIONS	11
9. SOCIAL SECURITY	14
10. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	15
11. HOURS OF WORK	18
12. HOLIDAYS & SUNDAYS	25
13. MANAGEMENT	27
14. SAFETY & HEALTH PRECAUTIONS	29
15. BEREAVEMENT	32
16. PENSION	32
17. SENIORITY	33
18. TRANSFERS	40
19. ABSENTEEISM	40
20. LEAVE OF ABSENCE	41
21. SICK LEAVE	.	. 42
22.	SEVERANCE PAY ON PLANT CLOSURE	43
23.	EXTRAS	44
24.	TRADES APPRENTICES	47
25.	LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE	47
26.	GENERAL	49
27.	CORRESPONDENCE	50
28.	DURATION OF AGREEMENT	51
SCHEDULE “A” - WAGE RATES	52
SCHEDULE"B" - MEMO RE POWERHOUSE	57
SCHEDULE "C" - LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGRE VARIOUS COMPANY COMMITMENTS	61
SCHEDULE"D" - MEMO REJOHSC	62
SCHEDULE“E” - LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGRE
NON-VOLUNTARYOVERTIME	63
SCHEDULE"F" - MEMO RE OVERTIME PROCEDURE
65
#946569.16
3
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERS UNION
-and -
MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC.
Its Successors or Assigns
ARTICLE 1	- DEFINITIONS
1.01	It is agreed by the parties that, except where a contrary intention appears in this Agreement:
(a)	Bargaining Unit- meansthe bargaining unit described in Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board Order No. 884, dated October8,1964 (allemployeesofthe Company, but excluding farm hands, buyers and salesmen, supervisors and above that rank, office employees and those excluded by the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia) and subsequent Board Order No. 4948 dated November9, 2001 and any amendments issued by the Board or changes agreed to by the parties inwriting;
(b)	Company - means Maple Leaf Foods Inc. and any successors in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Union Act (Nova Scotia);
(c)	Employees- meansthe Employees in the bargaining unit;
(d)	“shall” is imperative and “may” is permissive;
(e)	Union -means Atlantic Meatpackers Union;
(f)	Union officers - meansthe President, Vice-president and the Chief Steward;
(g)	words importing male persons include female persons;
(h)	words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular;
(i)	every Schedule attached hereto is a part of this Agreement;
(j)	Plant Seniority is defined as the length of service in the bargaining unit from date of hire as a Full-Time Employee, but
S946569.16	5
excludingtime as an Extra before being employed as a Full-Time Employee (subjectto the credit provided in this Agreement for time worked as an Extra) and also excludingall time on layoff in excess of seven (7) calendar days if the Employee advises the Company that he is not available to work as an Extra; and
(k)	Departmental Seniority is defined as the length of service in a department since the date of commencement of the last uninterrupted period of employment in that department. ARTICLE 2	- PURPOSE
2.01	The purpose of this Agreement is:
(a)	to promote and maintain harmonious relations between the Company and its Employees and to establish rules governing relations between them;
(b)	to facilitate the solution of such problems within the jurisdiction of this Agreement as may arise from time to time;
(c)	to establish and maintain a high degree of discipline and efficiency.
ARTICLE 3	- RECOGNITION
3.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargainingagent for the purpose of bargainingcollectively for all the Employees of the Company as defined herein, the whole in accordance with the Order granted by the Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board on October8,1964, being Order No. 884 and subsequent Order No. 4948 dated November9,2001, and any amendments thereto or changes agreed to by the parties in writing.
3.02	Insofar as the law permits, the Company will not bargain collectively during the term of this Agreement with any other labour organization affecting these Employees.
3.03	The Company will not act or be required to act upon any question of jurisdiction that may arise between the Union and any other union.
3.04	(a) The Company will not unreasonably withhold permissionto the President or other representative of the Union to enter the Plant at reasonable times to discuss with the
#946569.16	6
Union officers and/or stewards, matters relating to the administration of this Agreement.
(b)	Management shall provide the President of the Union with a guided tour of the Plant once a year at a time mutually agreeable to the parties.
3.05	The Union shall be entitled to have the Company post a sign approximately eight and a half inches (8%")by eleven and a half inches (11%") entifying that employees of the plant are represented by the Union. The sign shall be posted inside the building near the visitors' main entrance in a location that is readily visible.
3.06	The Company will allow the Union to continue to use the room in the plant currently designated for the Union (or a comparable space) for storage of current files and for communication with the Union's head office. To allow for secure storage, the Union will be provided with a key to the room and the Company will have a mail slot installed in the door to the room. To allow for communication with the Union's headoffice, the Companywill arrange forthe installation of a phone/fax line, with the Union to reimburse the Company for all costs (including both installation and regular bills).
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK-OFF
4.01	Deduction and Remittance
The Company agrees that it will deduct from the Employees' earnings on each payday during the term of this Agreement, the amount of the Union dues, together with any special assessment (including initiation fees which shall be deducted with an Employee's first dues deduction). The Treasurer of the Union shall notify the Company of the amount of the dues and of the date and amount of any special assessment. The Company will transmit the total sum of the amount so deducted to the Treasurer of the Union during the month following the deduction of dues.
4.02	Indemnification
In consideration of the Company deducting and remitting amounts to the Union, the Union agrees to indemnify
#946569.16	7
and save the Employer harmless against any claim or liability arising out of or resulting from the operation of this Article. ARTICLE 5 - U N10 N SECURITY
5.01	All present Employees, as a condition of employment, shall remain Union members in good standing. All new Employees, as a condition of employment, shall become and remain Union members in good standing within sixty (60) days of employment. A list of new Employees shall be given to the Chief Steward at the end of each pay period. Every six (6) months, the Employer will provide the Union with a list of Employees (which includes Extras), together with their addresses and phone numbers as shown on the records of the Company.
5.02	The Union shall indemnify and hold harmless the Company from acting upon or relying upon any statement by or on behalf of the Union that the Union membership of any Employee has ceased. The indemnity shall cover all damages, costs or expenses otherwise incurred.
5.03	Supervisors and above shall not perform work of bargainingunit Employees, except for:
(a)	an emergency;
(b)	training;
(c)	instruction; and
(d)	sundry departmental duties not in excess of one
(1)hour per day.
5.04	The Company recognizes that stewards and officers have duties and responsibilitiestowards, and on behalf of, the Union and are required attimes to leave their jobs to investigate and process grievances, or discuss, with supervision, other matters affecting Employees. The Union recognizes that stewards and officers are Employees of the Company and, as such, have jobs to perform on behalf of the Company. When it becomes necessary for officers or stewards to leave their jobs to attend to the above matters, the steward concerned shall obtain the permission of the Supervisor concerned before leaving his work. Such permission shall not be unreasonably
#946569.16	a
withheld, and arrangements will be made by their Supervisor to leave their jobs, with no loss of pay, as soon as reasonably possible, but normally not later than one (1)hour following that request. The Union agrees that there will not normally be duplication of duties or responsibilities of its stewards and officers, however, it is recognized that there may be times, when, because of the circumstances, the Union or the Company may deem it necessary to have more than one representative attend to the matter. The time away from productive work shall not be excessive and shall be reported in accordance with the time keeping method of the department in which the steward is employed.
5.05	At times, it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors. Any decision to do so shall be based on the following factors:
(a)	the availability of Employees with the required skills;
(b)	the urgency of the work to be done;
(c)	cost.
If the work can be performed by Employees as efficiently (based on the above factors) as by outside contractors, the work shall be assigned to Employees. If work is to be performed by an outside contractor, the contractor may do the entire job.
Before having work performed by outside contractors, the Company shall discuss with the Union its intent to do so whenever reasonably possible. (For example, it may not be reasonably possible in cases of emergency.) This Article 5.05 does not restrict the Company in regard to installation and construction work or in regard to loading and related functions in the Night Shipping Department which are contracted out as part of a trucking contract.
5.06	The Company will not displace Full-Time Employees for the purpose of using Extras or Apprentices.
#946569.16
9
ARTICLE 6 -STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
6.01	The Union agrees it will not authorize any strike, slowdown or cessation of work contrary tothe Trade Union Act.
6.02	The Company agrees that it will not lock out contrary to the Trade Union Act.
6.03	Due tothe perishable nature of the product, proper preservation conditions must be maintained at all times. The Union undertakes that it shall not take any action in any way detrimental to adequate product preservation or the maintenance of product preserving equipment. Should a legal strike and/or lockout occur, the Company will be responsible for the presetvation of its product.
ARTICLE 7-WAGES
7.01	The Schedule of Classifications and Rates shall be as set out in Schedule "A".
7.02	The Company may create new job classifications and/or new departments provided it first discusses any new classification/department with the Union.
If such discussion fails to result in agreement on rate of pay for a new classification, the Company shall assign a rate commensurate with the rate structure of this Agreement. The Union may require that the rate be finally determined by means of the grievance and arbitration procedure.
When a new department is being implemented (but not if an existing department is being split into two departments), the Company shall post forthe jobs accordingto Article 17.11. Employees who post into the new department and have the same departmental seniority date shall be ranked on the departmental seniority list in accordance with plant seniority.
7.03	In recognition of the changing market conditions for
certain j obs (i.e. collective agreementjob titles), the parties jointly recognize that there are occasions where certain jobs may require pay increases or positive changes tot he pay structure during the life of a collective agreement. Where such cases exist, the company will approach the union leadership #946569.16	10
with a proposal, provide tot he union a rationale for the change, and attempt to negotiate a mutually agreeable outcome. If the parties are unable to reach an agreement on the appropriate pay increase or on the alteration tot he pay structure, the final decision will rest with management. However, the company agrees that it will not act in any way which is arbitrary, discriminatory, or in bad faith.
ARTICLE 8-VACATIONS
8.01	(1) VACATION PAY SCHEDULES:
Years of Continuous Service	Amount of Vacation Pay	Time Off
Between 1 and 5 Years	4% of vacation pay base	2 weeks
Between 5 and 10 Years	6% of vacation pay base	3 weeks
Between 10 and 15 Years	8% of vacation pay base	4 weeks
15 Years or more	10% of vacation pay base	5 weeks
(2)	Vacation Pay Base - meansthe total earnings (as shown onT-4) of an Employee from the Company forthe previous calendar year (Januaryl to December31, inclusive).
(3)	Service- meansthe total yearsof service inthe bargaining unit from date of hire as a Full-Time Employee and excluding time as an Extra before being employed as a Full-Time Employee, (subjectto the credit provided in Article 23.07 for time worked as an Extra).
The service calculation date for vacation is March 1 of the current calendar year.
(4)	Amount of Vacation Pay- the amount of vacation pay shall be the greater of the following amounts:
(a)	the appropriate percentage of vacation pay base, or
(b)	vacation pay for each week of vacation for hourly-rated Employees shall be the normal weekly hours at the regular hourly rate, provided that this amount will be reduced by l/52nd for each week of absence (including any period during which an Employee works twenty-four (24) hours per week or
less) when an Employee is absent for more than six (6) months. #946569.16	^ ^	11
8.02	(a) The Department Supervisor or designate shall ask
each Employee in the Department to indicate his preference for vacation, and each Employee, upon request, shall immediately indicate their choice for vacation entitlement. There should be two rounds of vacation selection:
(i)	The first round will deal with the first two weeks of vacation entitlement and will be completed no laterthanthe 31st day of March.
(ii)	The second round will deal with any vacation entitlement in excess of two f2Jweeks. It will be completed no laterthan the 30th day of April, with the postingof the full vacation schedule not laterthan the 15th day of May.
In each round, on indicating his vacation choice, an Employee will be given the opportunity to sign off (initial) his chosen vacation and the record shall be preserved by the Company for the balance of the vacation year.
(b)	Preferenceinschedulingvacationswill be on the basis of departmental seniority, provided, however:
(j) Employees who do not choose vacation as soon as possible when requested by the Supervisor, and in any event, within two (2) working days (excludingweekends and holidays) of the request, shall lose their opportunity to receive preference over other Employees who have less departmental seniority, but who select their vacation when requested; and
(ii)	Employees are not entitled to participate in the first round of vacation selection if atthe time they would otherwise be entitled to indicate their preferencevacation they are off work on medical leave, have been off on such leave for more than six (^months and have not provided the Company with a probable date of return supported by medical evidence.
(c)	In departments where there were day and night shifts for more than a total of six (6) months during the previous calendar year, the shifts will be treated as separate departments for the purposes of vacation scheduling.
(d)	If, after an Employee's vacation has been scheduled, but before the Employee has taken his vacation, the Employee
transfers to another department (or another shift where that #946569.16	12
shift is considered a different department for the purpose of vacation selection), the Employee may carry his scheduled vacation with him, provided he has been employed in the department or on the shift for more than four (4) months atthe time of transfer.
8.03	If a defined holiday is observed during the vacation period of any Employee, the vacation shall be lengthened by one (1)working day. It is the Employee's choice whether to take that day on the working day immediately before or the working day immediately after his/her vacation (orto agree with the Company on another mutually acceptable day off), provided, however, during the week in which Christmas Day falls, and during the week which follows, the Company has the right to designate whether any individual Employee can take the working day off immediately before his/her vacation orthe working day off immediately following his/her vacation.
8.04	If a defined holiday is observed during the vacation period of any Employee, the Employee will be allowed a compensatory day's holiday, with pay, at the Employee's regular rate.
8.05	Vacation periods shall not be accumulated from year to year.
8.06	All deductions normally made from an Employee's regular pay may be deducted from the Employee's vacation pay.
8.07	When Supervisors and above the rank of Supervisor take their vacation, it will have no effect on any bargaining unit Employee'svacation.
8.08	(a)	At leastfifteen percent(15%), rounded up, of
bargaining unit Employees in any department can take their vacation atthe same time. For example, in a department with twenty-one (21) Employees, the calculation of the minimum number of Employees who can take their vacation atthe same time would be as follows: 21 x 15% =3.15 -which is rounded up to four (4).
(b)	Notwithstanding that the calculation in paragraph (a) may allow only one (1)Employee in a department to be on vacation at a time, the Company will make reasonable #946569.16	13
efforts, subject always to operational requirements, to allow up to two (2)Employees in the same department to take their vacation atthe same time.
8.09	An Employee with more than three (3) weeks' vacation entitlement may elect to waive the excess and receive the resulting excess vacation pay in December (or at such other time as may be mutually agreed between the Company and an individual Employee). By makingthis election, the Employee is waiving his/her entitlement to the vacation leave for which he/ she is receivingvacation pay, but such an election shall not affect an Employee'spreferencefor his/her otherweeksof vacation for which he/she has not received vacation pay.
ARTICLE 9 - SOCIAL SECURITY
9.01	(a) The Company will participate in the group
benefit plan(s) designated in writing by the Union. All permanent Employees (Full-Time Employees) shall participate in the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, an Employee can opt out of the group health care (medical and dental) so long as the Employee has comparable coverage through the spouse's employment.
(b)	The Company's responsibility in regard to group insurance is limited to the payment of its share of the premiums. Costs of the premiums will be shared between the Company and the Employees, provided that the Company's share of premiums during the term of this Agreement shall not exceed the following amounts:
(j) One month following ratification for family coverage: One Hundred Ten Dollars and Thirty Cents ($110.30) per month; and
(ii)	One month following ratification for single coverage: Seventy-Two Dollars and Ninety-Eight Cents ($72.98).
(jjj) For family coverage September 18,2010: One Hundred Twenty Dollars and Thirty Cents ($120.30) per month; and
(iv)	For single coverage September 18, 2010: Eighty-Two Dollars and Ninety-Eight Cents ($82.98).
#946569.16	14
(v)	For family coverage September 18,2011: One Hundred Thirty Dollars and Thirty Cents ($130.30)
(vi)	For single coverage September 18,2011: Ninety-Two Dollars and Ninety-Eight Cents ($92.98)
(vii)	For family coverage September 18,2012: One Hundred Thirty-five Dollars and Thirty Cents ($135.30)
(viii)	For single coverage September 18,2012: Ninety-seven Dollars and Ninety-Eight Cents ($97.98)
9.02	While an Employee is on leave for medical reasons, the Employee shall be entitled to coverage underthe Group Benefit Plans (subject tothe terms of the Plans), provided the Employee reimburses the Company on a monthly basis for his share of the premiums or the Company agrees to alternative arrangements.
9.03	(a) The Company will advance up to Two Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($250) in Workers' Compensation cases to cover the period between the injury or the filing of the claim and the first payment from the Workers' Compensation Board.
(b) An Employee receiving an advance agrees that:
(i)	the Workers‘ Compensation Board may deduct the amount of any advance from compensation payable by the Board (normally the first payment) to reimburse the Company for the advance; and
(ii)	should the Company not be reimbursed fully under clause (i), the Company may deduct the amount of the advance, or any balance owing, from any amount payable by the Company tothe Employee, including any vacation pay.
ARTICLE 10 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
10.01	The term “grievance” includes an alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Collective Labour Agreement.
0946569.16
15
10.02	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the Chief Steward and Departmental Stewards and of any subsequent changes in the names thereof.
10.03	The grievance procedure is available to all Employees. Union and Employee grievances must be taken up within five (5) days after the alleged grievance has arisen.
10.04	PROCEDURE
(1) STEP 1 -The aggrieved Employee, with his Departmental Steward, shall discuss the matter with the Supervisor of the Department. The Supervisorshall give his/her decision within two (2) days of the discussion with the Employee.
STEP2 - Failing an answeror satisfactory settlement within the two (2) days allowed for the Supervisor's reply, the Chief Steward and the Departmental Steward shall discuss the matter with the Production Manager or designate. The Production Manager or designate shall give his decision within two /2/days of his discussion with the Chief Steward.
STEP 3 - Failing an answeror satisfactory settlement within the two (2) days allowed for the Production Manager's reply, the Chief Steward or his designate shall submit the complaint in writing to the Production Manager or his designate. Within five (5) days after the Production Manager has received the written complaint, the Production Manager and Human Resources Manager, or their designates (and they may be accompanied by a third management representative), shall meet with the Union Grievance Committee, consistingof the Chief Shop Steward, or designate, and two (pother Union appointees. The Company shall reply in writing (although reasons are not required) within two (2) days of the meeting.
STEP4- Failingan answer or satisfactory settlement, eitherthe Union or the Company may request a meeting of the Union President, or his designate, and the Union Grievance Committee, and the Company's Plant Manager, or his designate, who may be accompanied by the Production Manager and/or Manager of Human Resources, or their designates, to discuss the matter. The meeting shall take place within four (4) days of the receipt of the request and the Plant Manager (or his #946569.16	16
designate) shall reply in writing, with reasons, within two (2) days after the meeting.
(2)	The aggrieved Employee may attend at any stage of the Grievance Procedure. An aggrieved Employee who is reasonably required to attend a grievance meeting at Step 2 or Step 3 may do so without loss of pay.
(3)	Employee grievances arising out of discharge will be commenced within five (5) days of the dismissal and shall begin at STEP 3 upon written notice from the Grievance Committee, stating the grounds of objection to the dismissal.
(4)	A request for a wage adjustment due to any error in calculation of pay, if not answered within four (4) days, may be treated as a grievance and handled progressively, beginning with STEP 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
10.05	Time Limits:
(a)	The time limits specified in this Article shall be deemed to be exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and fixed holidays.
(b)	Any of the time limits may be extended at any stage by mutual consent.
10.06	Unresolved grievances shall be referred in writing to an Arbitration Committee composed as follows:
(a)	a single arbitrator where both parties agree; or
(b)	three (3) arbitrators -one (1)appointed by the Union, one (1)appointed by the Company, and a third appointed by the first two (2) within one (1)week of their appointment, and if the third is not appointed within this time, either party may apply to the Minister of Labour for the Province of Nova Scotia to make the appointment.
10.07	The decision of a single arbitrator appointed under 10.06 (a) or the decision of the majority appointed under 10.06 (b), shall be final and binding upon all parties. The decision shall not alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, nor make any general changes, such as changes in wage rates agreed upon.
#946569.16
17
10.08	The Company and the Union agree to bear equally the fees and expenses of the single arbitrator appointed under 10.06 (a) and of the third arbitrator appointed under 10.06 (b).
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK 11.01 (a) The normal work week (excluding the Powerhouse - see Schedule "B") shall consist of regular scheduled weekly shifts of between eight (8) and twelve (12) hours per shift. Employees will not be scheduled for regular shifts in excess of 10 hours without the employees consent.
This is not a guarantee by the Company of hours of work per day or per week or of days of work per week. While the company prefers the scheduling of consecutive days, it is understood that in special circumstances the days may not be consecutive.
(b) All Employees are subject to scheduling, providedthe Company givesthe affected Employee and the Union, two (2) weeks' notice of the change in schedule.
However, two (2) weeks' notice is not required where:
(j) There is mutual agreement between an individual Employee and the Company.
(ii) The change of schedule is for one (1)hour or less, provided:
■	it is made because of events beyond the control of the Company (for example, because of customer requirements or a delay in arrival of fresh pork);
■	the Employee(s) is advised by the end ofthe previous day's shift;
■	the Company shall accommodate couples who are both employed with the Company and who have child care obligations so only one (1)spouse can be required to attend without the two (2) weeks' notice;
-	the exception may only be applied by the Company twice a week for any individual Employee;
-	before applying this exception, the Company will first attempt to deal with the situation by asking for volunteers from
#946569.16	18
among qualified Employees affected and obtaining mutual agreement.
Ifthe start time is delayed underthis paragraph(ii) and an Employee wishes to leave atthe time when the shift is normally scheduled to end, the Employee may ask his Supervisor for permission to leave at the normal quitting time and such request shall not be unreasonablyrefused.
(iii)	An Employee is participating in a Returnto Work Program and the only available work that is safe and suitable for the Employee is not scheduled during the Employee's regular shift, in which case, if there is more than one (1)such job, the Employee will be assigned thejob with the shift which is more comparable to the Employee's regular shift.
If a seven (7) day continuous operation is instituted, the Company will discuss and negotiate with the Union, a formula to provide Employees with similar benefits for the holiday pay for holidays falling on days that they were not scheduled to work.
(d)	The days of work, daily hours, starting and quitting times, and the duration of lunch breaks and work breaks may be altered because of changes in the terms or conditions relating to government inspection staff.
11.02	It is understood that atthe start of an Employee's scheduled shift, the Employee is to be at his work station. On the first occasion an Employee is late by five (5) minutes or less, the Employee will be advised by his Supervisor that he was late and this may be confirmed in writing, but will not be considered a formal warning. On any other occasions an Employee is late, the Employee is subject to discipline for just cause in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
11.03	Overtime shall be paid as follows:
(a) all employees for each hour worked in excess of the regularly scheduled daily shift, one and one half (1.5x) straight time rate of pay, calculatedon an hourly basis, for first 2.5 hours, after which employees shall be paid twice (2x) the regular straight time rate.
#946569.16	19
(b)	all employees for each hour worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week, one and one-half (1.5x) straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis except where double time is otherwise payable as perthe CBA.
(c)	all employees for each hour worked on days outside of the scheduled work week, one and one-half (1.5x) straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis, for first four (4) hours, after which employees shall be paid twice (2x) the regular straight time rate.
Provided nothing herein shall be construed to provide overtime on overtime, and that the only premium for overtime work is either daily or weekly, but not both.
11.04	The Company agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each, (station to station), provided that the working time of any one (1) shift exceeds two and one-half (2J4) hours. An Employee shall receive two (2)rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each provided that the total working time is six (6) hours or more. The rest periods will be scheduled at approximately the mid point of each half of the shift, subject to change by the Company in accordance with its production schedule and the requirements of business, provided however there shall not be a break within one (1) hour after the starting time of the shift or one (1) hour after the lunch break. If an Employee continues working at the end of his shift and works more than three-quarters (3/4) of an hour beyond eight (8) hours per day, the Company agrees to grant a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period or pay in lieu of the rest period. The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, Employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day. The Union agrees that rest periods are a privilege and should not be abused.
11.05	An Employee is not required to work a shift which is
scheduled to commence within eight (8) hours of completion of the Employee's previous shift, but it is understood that if the Employee elects not to work the second shift, the Company has no obligation to reschedule the Employee to make up for the hours lost as a result of not working the second shift. (For example, if an employee works a shift which ends a 112 #946569.16	20
midnight, the employee is not required to work a shift which starts at 7 o'clockthe next morning. However, if the Employee elects not to work the 7 a.m. shift, the Company has no obligation to schedule the Employee to make up those hours; whether or not the Employee gets called for a shift later the same day will depend upon the Company's requirements.)
11.06	When an Employee is recalled to work outside his scheduled working hours, he shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at straight time rates, notwithstandingthat he worked less than four (4) hours, or overtime rates for overtime hours actually worked, whichever i s greater.
11.07	(a) When it is decided during a shift that overtime is required atthe end of the shift, overtime will be offered to Employees in the following order of preference:
(j) Employees on duty by departmental seniority;
(jj) other Employees on duty by plant seniority from the Plant Overtime List;
(iij) Employees not on duty by departmental seniority; and
(jV) other Employees not on duty by plant seniority from the Plant Overtime List.
In all other cases, the order of preference is firstly, by departmental seniority, and then by plant seniority from the Plant Overtime List.
Notwithstanding the above, in all cases of overtime, the Company is not obliged to offer overtime to an Employee under this paragraph (a) if an Employee has a scheduled shift which commences within eight (8) hours of the expected completion of the overtime; and provided also that Employees on approved leave will be excluded from these provisions.
(b) The Company will solicit names from Employees interested in performing overtime work in departments other than their own; and prepare a Plant Overtime List. The Company reserves the right to require an applicant to demonstrate his/her ability to perform the work at line speed, in a proper and efficient manner.
#946569.16	21
Failure to meet the job requirements will result in the applicant's name being removed from the List for that particular job. The Plant's Overtime List will be revised quarterly. A senior Employee who has designated his/her desire to work on the overtime list, who is missed, will be paid for all hours ajunior Employee worked, atthe applicable overtime rate. All work referred to above will continue to be voluntary.
(c)	The Company may supplement the Plant Overtime List by developing a weekly overtime list for Employees interested in performing overtime work in departments other than their own. Each Thursday morning, the Company may post a copy of the Plant Overtime List with a request that the Employees indicate their interest in performing overtime work the following week. The list will be taken down by 10 a.m. on Tuesday of the following week and a copy of that list shall be given to a Union representative. Once the list has been removed, there will be no additions to the list. The Company may then use the weekly list instead of the quarterly list to offer overtime by plant seniority. If the Company goes through the weekly list and still needs more Employees, it may go to the top of the quarterly list and call from that list (without duplicating calls from the weekly list). If there are still insufficient volunteers, the Company may use Extras.
(d)	It is understood that the Company requiresthat any major electrical work be done by an Employee with an electrician's ticket and therefore overtime would not be offered to an Employee, whether regularly employed in the Maintenance Department or not, who does not hold the required ticket.
(e)	The Union will cooperate with the Company by encouraging Employees to work overtime when the Company decides that overtime is required.
11.08	Unless an Employee has been notified beforehand not to report to work, or the Company has made reasonable efforts to notify an Employee not to report to work, an Employee reporting for work at a scheduled starting time shall be provided with a minimum of four (4) hours' work or pay in lieu
thereof except in the case of an Employee returningfrom an #946569.16	22
absence who has not given the required notification to the Company.
11.09	(a) The Company agrees to allow Employees to continue banking overtime subject to the following:
(i) each Employee may bank a maximum of forty-eight (48) times their straight time rate;
(ii)	an Employee cannot bank less than one (1)hour for any overtime period; and
(iii)	an Employee cannot bank part of an overtime period; that is, an Employee must bank all time in an overtime period or not bank any time for that overtime period.
(b) Banked overtime may be withdrawn only in the following circumstances:
(j) with a pre-approved leave at the mutual consent of the Employee and the Company; (any Employee seeking consent for leave shall apply to his Supervisor personally); time must be withdrawn in one (1)hour blocks except if the Employee is sent home more than one (1)hour early, or is allowed to go home more than one (1)hour early, because of lack of work, in which case the Employee may withdraw overtime in the amount of time lost that day in order to maintain full pay for the day;
(ii)	when, as a result of winter snowstorms, the Company is satisfiedthat the Employee is unableto report for work because of the weather;
(iii)	when the Employee has not missed a scheduled shift in a pay period, the Employee may withdraw banked overtime in a minimum of two (2) hour blocks or the balance in the bank;
(iv)	when the Employee has been absentfrom work due to illnessor injury forfive (5) consecutive regularly scheduled shifts or more, the Employee may withdraw the full balance in the bank; and
(v)	subjectto the above, paymentfor banked
overtime pay can be drawn by the Employee at any time during the calendar year provided the Employee applies on the #946569.16	23
standard form to be made available by the Company and the completed form is submitted to the payroll department no later than Wednesday for payment on Friday (payday)of the following week.
(vi)	No banked overtime may be withdrawn (as time off) between June 1 and September 14 and between November 1 and December31 of each calendar year.
(c)	Any amount outstanding at the end of June and again atthe end of Decemberwill be paidtothe Employee within fifteen (15) calendar days.
11.10	The Company agrees to pay a shift premium as follows:
(a)	fifty cents(50C) per hourfor scheduled shifts which commence at or after 12 noon up to, but not including 4:30 am.;
(b)	sixty cents(60C) (that is, an additional ten cents (10C)) for scheduled shifts which commence at or after 8 p.m. upto, but not including 2:30 a.m.
11.11	If, during a shift, an Employee is absent on approved leave and the Employee is required to work in addition to the scheduled hours, that Employee shall receive the overtime rate, although the Employee has not worked eight (8) hours.
11.12	The Company will schedule those Full-Time Employees who work the Tuesday to Saturday shifts in Shipping so that each week one of those Employees has the opportunity to have Saturday off. The schedule will be prepared in advance (and an Employee who is scheduled off on a Saturday will be scheduled and therefore required to work the previous Monday). An Employee who does not want his scheduled Saturday off must advise the Company more than a week in advance, but it is understood that if an Employee decides not to take his scheduled Saturday off (and is therefore not required to work the previous Monday), no other Employee shall be entitled to be scheduled off on that Saturday.
11.13	The Company recognizes that as a general principle (subject always to consideration of the specific circumstances including such factors as the demands of individual jobs and the
practicalities of the situation) that when Employees are involved #946569.16	24
in repetitive production work, for health and safety reasons a job rotation system is beneficial for both the Employees involved and the Company.
ARTICLE 12 - HOLIDAYS& SUNDAYS
12.01	The Company agrees to pay all Employees at their regular rates for the following holidays when not worked:
New Year's Day Good Friday Christmas Day Boxing Day Canada Day Labour Day
Victoria
Thanksgiving
Remembrance
Christmas
two (2) Floating Holidays
If any of the above-defined fixed holidays fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the day proclaimed in its stead will be named by the Company.
Floating holidays are to be taken with the consent of the Company and on the basis of first come, first serve.
If an Employee ceases employment with the Company before July 1 of any year, after havingtaken both floating holidaysfor the year, the Employee is liable to the Company for holiday pay for the second floating holiday and, without restricting the Company's remedy, the Company is authorized to deduct such amount from the Employee'sfinal pay.
12.02	Employees working on the above holidays shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at straight time rates and shall in addition, be paid double time rates for all hours worked on such holidays.
12.03	(l)Employees absent on the working days next precedingor next following any of the defined holidays shall not be entitled to pay for such holidays, unless the absentee received permissionfrom the Company to be absent or was absent because of sickness, evidenced by a Medical Certificate.
(2)	Employees who do not work eight (8) hours on the
working days next preceding or next following any one of the defined holidays may have their holiday pay reduced proportionally so that for each hour missed on either day, the 8946569.16	25
Employee's holiday pay will be reduced by one (1)hour's pay, unless the Employee missing time received permission from the Company to be absent or late or was absent or late because of sickness, evidenced by a Medical Certificate.
12.04	(a) The Company agrees to pay the regular hourly rated Employees double time (two (2) times straight time rates) for work performed on Sunday, except by Powerhouse Operators and for other classifications when the work is regularly done on Sunday.
(b) Employees who are regularly scheduled for a work week of five (5) eight (8) hour days, including Sundays, shall be paid double time (2x) for work performedonthe seventh day inthe work cycle, being the second scheduled day
Off.
Example#l: Ifan Employee hasa regular work week of Wednesday through Sunday, the seventh day inthe work cycle (and the second scheduled day off) is Tuesday so the Employee would receive double time (2x) for any work performed on Tuesday.
Example#2: Ifan Employee hasa regularwork week of Tuesday through Saturday, the Employee will receive double time (2x) for any work performed on Sunday even though Sunday is the sixth day intheir work cycle and their first scheduled day off. (Paragraph (a), not paragraph (b), applies to Employees who are regularly scheduled for a work week of five
(5)	consecutive days excluding Sunday.)
#946569.16
26
ARTICLE 13 - MANAGEMENT
13.01	The management of the Company's business, properties and plant, and the direction and distribution of the working forces including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the right to hire, suspend, discipline, discharge, layoff from duty because of lack of work or other legitimate reasons, and to promote, demote and transfer, to introduce new or improved production methods or facilities or to change existing production methods or facilities, the determination of the lay-out and equipment to be used on the business, the processes, techniques, methods and means of manufacture and production and distribution remain in and are vested exclusively in the Company.
13.02	Disciplinary Rules& Penalties- Immediate Discharge Offences. The following are mutually agreed and conclusively deemed to be just cause for immediate discharge:
(1)	reporting for work underthe influence of alcohol and/or drugs, or with abilities impaired by alcohol and/or drugs;
(2)	possessing or drinking any alcoholic beverage and/or drugs on the Company's premises;
(3)	falsifying time cards or other records;
(4)	refusing to obey orders of Supervisor or other members of the Supervisory Staff and/or to do work as assigned;
(5)	misuse or removal from the plant without proper authorization, Company material, products or property;
(6)	deliberate abuse or destruction of Company property, tools, and equipment, or the property of other Employees;
(7)	threatening, intimidation, physicallyassaulting or coercing Employees or members of the Supervisory Staff; or
(8)	theft of Company property or the property of other Employees.
13.03	Disciplinary Rules& Penalties- Lesser Offences
(1) For breach of the rules and regulations listed in the Plant and including any revisions or additions thereto, (provided the Company consults with the Union at least forty-eight (48)
#946569.16	27
hours prior to any revisions or additions), the Employee will be disciplined:
(a)	in the first instance by warning or reprimand which does not involve loss of work or loss of pay as a part of such warning or reprimand;
(b)	in the second instance, suspension of employment for a period of two (2) weeks, without pay, and the Union will be notified of the date and duration of the suspension; and
(c)	subsequent violations are conclusively deemed to be cause for immediate discharge.
(2) All disciplinary action to become null and void after eighteen (18) months.
13.04	Larsen Packers Limited is committed to creating and maintaining a work environment that is characterized by mutual respect and is free of harassment and discrimination which is contrary to the Human Rights Act (Nova Scotia). The Company has a policy on Workplace Harassment and therefore harassment in the workplace (including sexual harassment) will not be tolerated.
13.05	The Chief Steward, or inthe absence of the Chief Steward, a designated alternate, when available on Company premises, will be present for all disciplinary reprimands to be entered on an Employee's record.
13.06	If an Employee is called to a private meeting with the Company and the Company has a reasonable expectation that discipline will be imposed:
(a)	the Company shall inform the Employee that he has a right to have a Union Steward present and if the Employee states that he wishes to have a Union Steward present, the Company will not refuse the request; and
(b)	the Company will notify the Chief Shop Steward (or, in his/ her absence, a designate) prior to the meeting that such a meeting will be held with the Employee, but there is no obligation to provide particulars of the issue to be discussed with the Employee; the Chief Shop Steward, or designate, shall have a brief opportunity to meet with the
#946569.16	28
Employee prior to the Employee's private meeting with the Company.
13.07	Within seven (7) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and fixed holidays)of the Company advising an Employee that a suspension will be imposed and the length of the suspension, the Company shall advise the Employee in writing, with a copy to the Union, of the dates of the suspension. This is not applicable to a situation where an Employee is suspended indefinitely pending further investigation, but only to a situation where the Company has determined and advised the Employee of the specific length of the suspension.
ARTICLE 14 - SAFETY & HEALTH PRECAUTIONS
14.01	The Company shall make reasonable provision for the safety and health of its Employees during working hours.
14.02	Any medical examination, including but not limited to a physical abilities assessment, requested by the Company shall be promptly complied with by all Employees, provided, however, that the Company bears the expense of such examination. The Company reserves the right to select its own medical examiner or physician for group examinations. In the case of individual examinations, a family physician may be used, however, the Company reserves the right to require a second medical opinion.
14.03 (a)	The Company shall provide hard hats, coats and other appropriate safety equipment to be worn by all Employees. The Company shall provide eighty-five percent (85%) of the cost of aprons and wet suits.
(b) Safety Boots and Boot Allowance
(i) The Company will provide an annual Safety Boot Allowance as follows: January 2010, $95.00;
January 2011, $100.00; January 2012, $105.00. Thiswill be payable to each regular Employee with more than six (6) months' seniority; it will also be provided to Extras after completion of ten (10) months of employment and in the subsequent calendar years. This allowance can only be claimed once in any one (1)calendar year.
#946569.16	29
(jj) Subjectto any statutory requirements, the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee will establish the minimum required characteristicsof all boots worn by Employees in the plant, any changes to be made effective atthe start of the calendar year after the Committee establishes such characteristics. The Company may inspect boots, including a general semi-annual i nspection, to ensure that boots are suitable both in terms of characteristics established byJOHSC and the amount cf wear.
14.04	A joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall be established consistingof four (4) representativesof the Company and four (4) representativesof the Union.
The joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall tour the plant once per month, after which the Committee shall meet to discuss, record and identify matters which require attention.
The Committee shall maintain records and minutes of Committee meetings in a form and manner approved by the Provincial Director of Occupational Health and Safety and will provide the Director with a copy of those records and minutes upon request.
The Committee shall participate in i nspections, inquiries, and investigationsconcerningthe occupational health and safety of the Employees.
One (1)Committee member representing the Union and one (1) from the Company may accompany the Safety Inspector during his inspection of the plant.
14.05	(a) The Committee, through the co-operation of the Company, shall establish a prevention program that includes information and training in health and safety matters, and make recommendationsto the Employees and any person for the improvement of the health and safety of persons atthe work place.
(b)	Right to Refuse Work
Any Employee may refuse to do any act atthe work place where the Employee has reasonable grounds to believe that the act is
#946569.16	30
likely to endanger his health or safety or the health or safety of any other Employee.
The Employee will first report to his Supervisor.
Employees who refuse a job as stated above, may be reassigned to other work until they are able to return to their regular work. During such period of reassignment, the Employee will be paid the same wages and benefits as if they continued their normal job.
Another Employee may be assigned to the job in question, providing the Employee has been advised of the refusal by another Employee, the reason for refusal and their rights to refuse the job for similar reasons.
If the matter is not rectified, the Employees shall report the matter to the Committee representative. The Committee representative shall convene a meeting of the joint Committee, which shall have equal representation.
If the Committee does not resolve a matter and advises the Employee to return to work, but the Employee continues to refuse, a member of senior management will evaluate the situation. If that does not result in a resolution, the unresolved matter shall be referred to the Occupational Health and Safety Division (Nova Scotia) for investigation. If, after a full investigation by the Director of OccupationalHealth and Safety, the Employee's refusal is not upheld, the Employee may be disciplined and the matter may be subject to the grievance procedure.
14.06	The Company will schedule each Full-Time Employee two (2)hours per calendar year (pro-rated for persons who become Full-Time Employees during the year) for Health and Safety Seminars. These Seminars will be available on Company premises and will be without cost to the Union or the Employee.
The Employees shall be paid their regular straight time rate for the time in attendance at Health and Safety Seminars.
#946569.16
31
14.07	An Employee who is injured at work, but is not off work long enough to be eligible for compensation under the Workers’ CompensationAct (Nova Scotia) under the so-called “two-fifths deductible” rule, shall be paid for fifty percent (50%) of time lost from work on the day of injury as a result of the injury; provided however, such Employee shall be paid for one hundred percent (100%) of time lost from work on the day of the injury as a result of the injury if either the Employee returns to work that day and works the balance of his shift or the injury occurs after the Employee's lunch break and requires immediate outside medical attention (that is, attendance at a doctor's office or hospital).
ARTICLE 15 - BEREAVEMENT
15.01	In the event of the death of an immediate relative (father, mother, sister, brother, spouse or common-law spouse, son or daughter) of a regular Employee on the active payroll, the Employee shall be entitled to three (3) days' bereavement leave with pay. The leave shall normally commence no later than the day after the death and shall continue for a total period of three (3) consecutive regular working days, but a request to vary from this norm will not be unreasonably refused where there are special circumstances related to the death (for example, memorial service) and the Employee makes the request shortly after the death before taking all three (3) days' leave.
15.02	When it is necessary for a regular Employee on the active payroll to be absent on a regular working day to arrange for and/or attend the funeral of their mother-in-law, father-inlaw, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparent or grandchild, the Employee is entitled to be absent the day before, the day of and the day after the funeral. For each of these, if they are regular working days, he shall be paid his regular straight time rate.
ARTICLE 16 -PENSION
16.01	Normal retirement age may be 65.
16.02	The Company agrees to contribute the following
amounts to a pension plan or retirement fund designated in #946569.16	32
writing by the Union for all hours paid to each Full-Time Employee, in all cases up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week: 60C per hour.
ARTICLE 17	- SENIORITY
17.01	The Company shall maintain a plant seniority list and an individual departmental seniority list which shall be posted every six (6) months, with an update as required. Seniority lists shall be put under plexiglass and permanently displayed on the bulletin board.
17.02	Probation
(a)	Employees will be regarded as probationary Employees when hired and shall have no seniority under this contract until:
(i)	in the case of an Extra, 1040 regular hours worked; and
(ii)	in the case of a Full-Time Employee, 625 hoursof work, subject to the 50% credit provided in Article 23.07 for time worked as an Extra; (for example, if a Full-Time Employee had worked 1,000 hoursas an Extra before becominga Full-Time Employee, the Employee will receive a 500 hourcrediton his probationary period and therefore after becominga Full-Time Employee, will have 125 hours remaining in his/her probationary period).
(b)	Probationary Employees, if laid off and later rehired in a six (6) month period will receive credit for past service.
(c)	An Employee can be dismissed during his/her probationary period if the Company determines in good faith that the Employee is unsatisfactory and such dismissal shall be deemed to be for just cause.
17.03	Seniority
(a)	The Employee's plant seniority date will be the date of hire, as a Full-Time Employee, but excludingtime as an Extra before being employed as a Full-Time Employee (subject to the 50% credit provided in Article 23.07 fortime worked as an Extra) and also excluding all time on layoff in excess of seven (7)
#946569.16	33
calendar days if the Employee had advised the Company that he is not available to work except as a Full-Time Employee.
(b)	The Employee's department seniority date will be the date of commencement of the last uninterrupted period of employment in that department.
(c)	When two (2) or more Employees have identical dates of hires, the Employee with the greater number of working days in the probationary period will be given preference on the seniority list.
17.04	(a) Departmental seniority will be applied in determining preference in vacations, overtime, promotions, and shifts. Shift preference in the department can only be exercised by an employee once per year, except in circumstances where an employee has exercised their right and where management has reassigned them to a different shift for longerthan two months. Inthis case they may exercise their right a second time within the calendar year. Where department functions are transferred from one department to another, the job function will be deemed a function of the original department in determining Employees' allocation of vacation and overtime.
(b) Shift preference may be altered by the Company due to a lack of skill and ability. When this takes place, the Company shall advise the Union through the Labour Management Committee and reasonable steps will be taken to alleviate the situation through the use of the special training hours. (The Union may also advise the Labour Management Committee of situations where this could reasonably be expected to become a problem so that such information can be considered by the Company in regard to the use of the special training hours.)
17.05	(a) Where it is necessary to lay-off Employees for a period in excess of three (3) working hours per day, plant seniority will be the guiding factor, so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of Employees who are able, with a familiarization period, and willing to do the work which is available.
(b) In the event of a temporary lay-off (temporary lay-off is defined forthe purposes of this paragraph (b) as three (3) hours #946569.16	34
a day or less), the affected qualified Employee may choose to displace a junior Employee subject to the following:
1.	There is no entitlement to bump for one (1)hour or less, provided that this cannot be applied to an individual Employee more than twice a week.
2.	The onus is on the Employee, at the time of being advised that his shift is ending early, to notify the Company immediately that he wishes to exercise his bumping rights and whether or not such a request has already been refusedtwice that week.
3.	The mostjunior Employee exercising bumping rights is matched up with the mostjunior Employee then working in the Plant. Ajunior Employee being temporarily laid off can either accept the job of the mostjunior Employee still working inthe Plant, if he has the ability to do that job (and if he cannot, he has no other options on the day shift), or bump the mostjunior Employee on the night shift, if he has the ability to do that job.
In either case, if the junior Employee being temporarily laid off does not have the ability to do thejob of the junior Employee with whom he is matched, there are no other options for the Employee being temporarily laid off. A similar procedure would be followed for the second most junior Employee who is temporarily laid off and who is exercising his bumping rights.
He will be matched with the mostjunior Employee still working in the Plant atthe time or the mostjunior Employee scheduled to work on the night shift - (the Employeeswith whom he is matched may be morejunior Employees who have already exercised their bumping rights).
4.	Ability to do the job means that the Employee must be able to immediately operate at line speed or R.E.
5.	There will be no “chain bumping”. That is, an Employee , who was bumped cannot bump someone else.
6.	If there are more hours left in the shift of the junior
Employee being bumped than in the overlapping shift of the more senior Employee exercising bumping rights, the more senior Employee has to wait until the last part of the junior Employee's shift. For example, if the more senior Employee has #946569.16	35
lost two (2) hours from his regular shift, he must wait until the last two f2Jhours of the junior Employee's scheduled shift. If an Employee is bumping into an evening shift which has not yet started and the Company is able to contact the junior Employee scheduled for the evening shift before he arrives atwork, the senior Employee can pick up his hours at the start of the scheduled shift of the junior Employee working on the evening shift and the start time for the junior Employee will be adjusted accordingly. (The two (2) weeks' notice of change of schedule would not be applicable since the change was not initiated by the Company.)
7.	An Employee cannot bump another Employee so as to deprive thejunior Employee of an opportunity to work at l east four (4) hours (the minimum under Article 11.08). Similarly, an Employee who works more than four (4) hours in total, including time worked as a result of bumping, is not entitled to any benefits under Article 11.08.
8.	If an Employee bumps into the Packaging Room, the Employee will not be paid for the required clean up time.
9.	Employees inthe Maintenance Department and the Powerhouse are excluded from this bumping procedure.
(c)	In the event of a temporary lay-off for the balance of the shift, of longer than two (2) hours, the company will offer senior employees the option of leaving early, subject to the company's determination of operational requirements and maintenance of a skilled workforce.
17.06	An Employee's seniority rights shall be forfeited and employment terminated for any of the following reasons:
(a)	if he voluntarily resigns or leaves the services of the Company;
(b)	if he is discharged for cause;
(c)	if he is absent without leave for three (3) consecutive working days without first securing permission from the Company, unless the Company is satisfied that the Employee has a reasonable excuse;
#946569.16	36
(d)	if he is continuously out of active employment with the Company for a period of twelve (12) months; provided however, if an Employee is on leave for medical reasons, he shall retain seniority and employee status for a period equivalent to his length of service at the time of leave up to a maximum of two (2) years, subject to any statutory duty for further accommodation.
17.07	(a) If an Employee is on leave for medical reasons, the Employee's position shall be held for him for two (2) years, or until such earlier date as the Employee loses seniority and employee status under 17.06 (d). Duringthis time, the Company will continue to be responsible for its share of the premiums for group insurance coverage provided the Employee pays the Company the Employee's share of the premiums on a monthly basis in advance of the Company's remittance of premiums to the insurer. Employees on leave for medical reasons prior to ratification of this agreement, will continue to have their positions held for three (3) years.
(b)	On expiry of a period of two (2) years after commencementof medical leave, or on such earlier date as established under 17.06 (d) based on length of service, an Employee who has not returned to active employment shall forfeit his seniority rights and his employment is terminated.
(c)	Forthe purpose of calculatingthe duration of medical leave underthis Article 17.07, an Employee who is on leave for medical reasons and returns to work for less than three (3) months and then goes back on medical leave for the same or related reason as the original leave, will not be considered to have returned to work.
17.08	Employees promoted out of the bargainingunit shall retain their bargainingunit seniority until ninety (90) days following the date of promotion, following which their seniority rights shall cease.
17.09	Vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be filled within fourteen (14) days of the vacancy arising by promotion within each department on the basis of the Employee's seniority within that department and the ability to perform the
&Mjrmaltraining-	37
17.10	Promotions within the department will be as follows:
(a)	follow the steps up the line of progression as per departmental seniority;
(b)	if, for some reason, the senior Employee refuses the promotion, the next senior Employee will pass him in departmental seniority for promotional purposes only.
17.11 (a)	If the vacancy cannot be filled within the department, within twenty-eight (28) days of the vacancy arising the Company shall post notice of the vacancy and the notice shall remain posted for five (5) working days. Those applications received within the posting period will be considered and the vacancy will be filled in accordance with plant seniority. The name of the successful applicant will be posted within ten (10) days of the original posting. The Company reservesthe right to delay an Employee starting in a new position until a replacement for the Employee has been trained.
(b) Where a successful applicant is delayed starting in the new position for more than ninety (90) calendar days, he will be paid a higher rate for the new position after the ninety (90) calendar days.
(c)	Where a senior Employee refuses training or after the training is not able to do thejob, the next eligible Employee will be offered the training.
17.12	If an Employee who is entitled to fill a vacancy under Article 17.09 or who is the successful applicant underthe posting procedure in Article 17.11 is on a leave of absence or absent when they would otherwise be filling the vacancy, the position will be held for the Employee only up to a period of three (3) months, provided that the position will be held longer if the Employee satisfies the Company that there is a reasonable expectation of return, but the position will not be held open for more than five (5) months.
#946569.16
38
17.13	An Employee who has been the successful applicant for a posted vacancy shall not be eligible to apply for another posted vacancy for a period of twelve (12) months, except where:
(a)	the position held by the Employee (that is, the position for which the Employee was previouslythe successful applicant) is an entry level position; or
(b)	the posted vacancy for which the Employee wishes to apply is a higher ratedjob.
17.14	The vacancy may be filled on a temporary basis, normally by a bargainingunit Employee, provided a qualified Employee is available, until such time as the job posting sequence has been completed. No Employee will accumulate departmental seniority until such time as he is established in a home department.
17.15	Ability to do the job means the ability to perform the requirements of the job following an appropriate familiarization period or following an appropriate training and trial period. The Company shall not curtail the training or trial period without reasonable cause before it has run its normal course. Inthe event the Employee is not able or does not wish to complete the trial period, or cannot satisfactorily perform the job within the training period or trial period, he shall be returned to his former position at its wage or salary rate without loss of seniority. The Company may extend any training or trial period, in which case it shall advise the Union in writing of the extension.
17.16	Where an Employee is not able, through illness or injury or other reasons, to perform his normal duties, the Company and the Union may arrange suitable alternate employment.
17.17	Alljob applications, pursuantto a job posting, shall be filled out in duplicate, with a copy to be given to the Union.
17.18	New Employees shall not be hired where there are Employees on lay-off able to perform the job.
#946569.16
39
ARTICLE 18 -TRANSFERS
18.01	The Company will have the right to temporarily transfer, not exceeding six (6) weeks, an Employee from one position to another in orderto affect proper and efficient operation ofthe plant, providing that the rate of no Employee shall be reduced when he is performing work in a classification having a lower rate than his own under these circumstances, or when work is available in his own classification. In temporary transfers from one department to another, the Company will recognize seniority, subject to the requirements of the business and qualifications of the Employee.
18.02	When an Employee is permanently assigned to work in a classification paying a higher rate than his own, he shall be paid the higher rate for such work. When an Employee is temporarily assigned or transferred to work in a classification paying a higher rate than his own, he is not entitled to receive the higher rate until he has consecutively worked one (1)hour in the higher classification; he shall then be paid the higher rate for time worked in the higher classification, including the first hour.
18.03	When an Employee is transferred for the purpose of gaining job experience and to qualify for a higher rate, he is not entitled to receive the higher rate until he has acquired the skill to perform the job classifications at line speed.
ARTICLE 19 -ABSENTEEISM
19.01	Absent Employees shall notify the Company at least one -half (K) hour or one (1)hour in the case of shifts starting after 5:00 pm before the scheduled start of their shift provided the Company makes arrangements to receive the calls.
19.02	Inthe event of an Employee being absent through illness or injury, the Employee shall give the Production Manager the following notice of his intention to return to work:
(a)	where the Employee has been absent for a period of five (5) working days or more: one (1)vorking day's notice; and
#946569.16	40
(b)	where the Employee has been absent for a period of one (1)month or more: three (3) working days' notice.
19.03	The Company may, as part of an absenteeism control program, require an Employee to provide a medical certificate provided that the Company will pay for any reasonable charges by the doctor for the certificate for Employees who have less than seven (7) absences (excludingany absences resulting from a court appearance required by subpoena) in the previous calendar year, pro rated based on attendance.
19.04	Employees off work for medical reasons are required to maintain regular contact with the Company. Without restricting the obligation of an Employee who is off work for a relatively short period of time to maintain regular contact with the Company, an Employee shall personally contact a designated individual(s) in the Company’s Human Resources Office at least once every two (2)weeks.
ARTICLE 20 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
20.01	The Company shall grant leave of absence to attend Union conventions, without pay and without loss of seniority, provided that:
(a)	the Company is given at l east two (2) weeks' notice, when possible, of the request for leave of absence;
(b)	the leave does not seriously interfere with the business of the Company; and
(c)	not more than three (3) members of the Union are on leave of absence at any one time.
20.02	The Company may grant leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority to any Employee where the Company determines in its discretion, that the leave is for legitimate personal reasons. Leave of absence for cases other than illness and accident will not be granted except under special circumstances.
#946569.16
41
20.03	The Company may grant leave of absence to an Employee who wishes to apply to work for the Union on a fulltime basis-this isto be reviewed from year to year. However, the Employee on such Union leave does not accumulate seniority during the leave.
20.04	When a regular Employee (one who has completed his probationary period) is summoned to j ury service, he will be paid his normal daily hours worked multiplied by his regular hourly rate, provided he turns over to the Company, the amount received for each jury service. The Employee will be required to notify the Company immediately upon receiving notice of jury duty and to report to work on any day he is not required to serve as a juror.
20.05	The Company shall grant maternity leave, parental leave and compassionate leave, all in accordance with the Labour Standards Code of Nova Scotia.
ARTICLE 21 - SICK LEAVE
21.01	(a)	Full-Time Employees (not Extras) shall
accumulate sick leave at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours for each month of perfect attendance, subject to a maximum accumulation under paragraph(c).
(b)	Perfect attendance includes time off on paid leave (for
example, holidays, vacation and bereavement leave) other than sick leave, provided however, in the case of a floating holiday, the Employee must have given the Employer forty-eight (48) hours' notice of his request for the floating holiday. Perfect attendance is also not affected by an authorized leave of less than one (1)week, for example, to attend a doctor's appointment or leave on Union business, provided however in order to be considered authorized leave:
(i)	in the case of health related appointments such as doctor's appointments, dental appointments, appointments for blood tests and x-rays, in order to be considered authorized leave, the Employee must have given the Employer twenty-four (24) hours' notice of the appointment; and
(ii)	in the case of a court appearance as a result of a
subpoena, the Employee must have advised the Employer as #946569.16	42
soon as reasonably possible after being served with the subpoena.
(c)	The maximum amount of sick leave which an Employee may carry forward from one (1)calendar year to the next is sixty (60) hours. An Employee with an excess of sixty (60) hours in his sick leave bank at year end shall receive a lump sum payment based on one hundred percent (100%) of the excess hours. For example, an Employee with sixty-eight (68) hours in the sick leave bank atyear end shall receive a lump sum payment of eight (8) hours' pay -one hundred percent (100%) of the eight (8) hours in excess cf sixty (60) hours.
21.02	An Employee can only draw on his sick leave bank in blocks of eight (8) hours, provided however:
(a)	if an Employee can establish to the Company that his department only worked one-half day, the Employee can draw a block of four (4 ) hours from his sick leave bank; or
(b)	if an employee reports to work and leaves because of sickness within the first four hours of the shift, the employee can draw a block of hours (round number) from his sick leave bank up to a maximum of the remaining hours in his shift that he would have worked that day had he not been sick
21.03	The Company will post accumulated sick leave semiannually (in January and July).
ARTICLE 22 -SEVERANCE PAY ON PLANT CLOSURE
22.01	In the event of a permanent Plant closure, Full-Time Employees who have one (1)or more years of service at the time of closure will receive severance pay as follows:
I	to 5 years 6 to 10 years
II	to 15 years 16 to 20 years over 20 years
3	weeks' pay
4	weeks' pay
5	weeks' pay
6	weeks' pay
7	weeks' pay
This Article shall be null and void if a Plant closure resultsfrom a labour dispute, explosion, loss of utilities, machine breakdown, acts of God or other acts of a similar nature which are beyond the control of the Company.
#946569.16
43
ARTICLE 23 - EXTRAS
23.01	“Extras” are Employees who are used to supplement the regular work force of Full-Time Employees, and may only be used as follows:
(a)	To relieve Full-Time Employees or Extras who are absent from work provided any Full-Time Employee on layoff has been given the opportunity to work. Any relieving Extra may be used anywhere in the Plant (regardless of department or shift), subjectto Article 23.02.
After the end of each week, the Company will provide the Union with daily absenteeism reports for the previous week and a list of the Extras used as relief.
(b)	To operate new product lines on a trial basis, subject to the following:
(i)	any Full-Time Employee on l ayoff has been given the opportunity to work;
(ii)	'Trial Basis” referred to above will be a maximum of one (1)year for each new product line. Atthe conclusion of the year, the line will be operated by Full-Time Employees or discontinued.
(iii)	During the one (1)year trial period;
(A) if a new product line operates for three (3)continuous months for twenty-four (24) hours per week, the Company will operate the line with Full-Time Employees;
(6)	if two (2)new product lines are operating for three (3) continuous months for a total of forty (40) hours or more a week, hours of work on the two (2) lines will be combined to create Full-Time employment;
(C) on a quarterly basis, the Company will review with the Union new product demand and the possibility of creating FullTime employment in accordancewith (A)and (B) above. Any disagreementon combining new product linesto provide FullTime employment will be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
#946569.16
44
(iv)	Upon the creation of Full-Time employment referred to in this paragraph (b), the job will be posted in accordance with Article 17.
(c)	To work when no Full-Time Employees are available to workovertime under Article 11.07. For example:
(i)	if any extra shift is scheduled on the weekend and FullTime Employees are not available to work overtime, Extras may be used;
(ii)	if an Extra is working in relief and additional work is required at the end of the shift, the Extra may only work the additional time if Full-Time Employees are not available.
If any Full-Time Employee is laid off, he shall advise the Company whether or not he wishes to work as an Extra. If he does not wish to do so, he will be recalled only when Full-Time work becomes available and will be considered to have been given an opportunity to work under (a) and (b) above.
23.02	The number of Extras shall not exceed the following maximums calculated based on the number of Full-Time Employees:
(a)	where there are up to 380 Full-Time Employees: 25% of the total number of Full-Time Employees;
(b)	where there are over 380 Employees and up to 475 FullTime Employees: 95 Extras; and
(c)	where there are over 475 Full-Time Employees: 20% of the total number of Full-Time Employees.
23.03	Full-Time Employees for the purpose of Article
23.02	include probationary Employees.
#946569.16
45
23.04	Extras are not entitled to the provisions of Articles8, 9,11, 12, 15, 17, 18 and 20 to 22 inclusive of this Agreement, except that:
(a)	Extras will be eligible for public holiday pay for the number of hours they would have worked on the following holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Canada Day Labour Day Christmas Day
provided they work:
(i) their scheduled day before and after the holiday, and (jj) at l east twelve (12) of the thirty (30) calendar days precedingthe holiday.
(b)	Extras with one (1)year's service or more will be entitled to two (2)weeks' vacation with vacation pay of four percent (4%)of earnings during the previous calendar year;
(c)	Extrasshall be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular rates for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any day or in excess of forty (40) hours in a week;
(d)	Extras shall be entitled to the provisions of Article 11.04 plus one-half (J4) hour unpaid lunch break.
(e)	Extrasshall be covered by Article 11.05 (re eight (8) hours between shifts).
23.05	Extras do not have either plant seniority or departmental seniority. However, the Company will keep a list of Extras by hours worked after the signing of the 1994-98 Collective Agreement (February24, 1995). The list will be updated monthly.
23.06	The Employer shall meet with an Extra to discuss the Extra's performance after approximately two hundred (200) hours of work, with subsequent reviews as determined by the Company, but normally before approximately four hundred (400) hours and then approximately every four hundred (400) hours after that.
#946569.16	46
23.07	Full-Time Employees who have worked as an Extra will receive credit for time worked as an Extra for the purposes of the probationary period, plant seniority and service for calculatingvacation. The credit will be calculated on the basis of fifty percent (50%) of hours worked as an Extra since February 24,1995 (the date of signing of the 1994-98 Collective Agreement), prorated basedon2080 hours representing one year; for example, an Extra who becomes a Full-Time Employee and who has worked 2080 hours as an Extra after February 24, 1995 will receive credit of 1040 hours, that is, twenty-six (26) weeks or six (6) months.
ARTICLE 24 -TRADES APPRENTICES Both parties agree to form a joint committee on “trades apprenticeship” to discuss the development of a new Trades Apprenticeship Program.
ARTICLE 25 -LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
25.01	(a) The Company and the Union agree to establish a Labour Management Committee composed of four (4) representativesof the Union (the Union President, the Union Vice President, the Union Secretary and the Chief Steward) and four (4) representativesof the Company (the Production Manager and three (3) other persons designated by the Plant Manager). The Labour Management Committee shall meet at least once every month at a time and place to be decided by the Committee, to discuss all proper subjects of general interest to both the Union and the Company, including health, safety and other matters. (In the absence of a regular member of the Labour Management Committee, an alternate designated by the Company or the Union, as the case may be, may attend the meeting.) But the Labour Management Committee is not intended to, nor shall it replace the Grievance Procedure, and all matters properly dealt with by the Grievance Procedure and not by the Labour Management Committee. The Union shall designate a Chairman of its Safety Committee who, when he has cause for concern, shall sit with the Labour Management Committee, which shall deal with questions of safety.
#946569.16	47
(b) The Company will make reasonable efforts to give Union representativeson the Labour Management Committee fifteen (15) minutes preparation time immediately before Committee meetings.
25.02	(a) The Company shall establish a pool of hours for special training. The number of hours in the training pool shall be establishedon January 1 of each year based on four (4) hours for each active Full-Time Employee as of that date. (The number of hours in the training pool establishes a commitment by the Company, but in no way restricts the Company in training Employees in excess of that number of hours.) The training pool shall be usedfor special training of Full-Time Employees-for example, to increase the flexibility of the work force or training a Full-Time Employee in additional jobs in his department so that the Employee is better able to advance in his classification. The training pool is not to be used to train the Employees for postedjobs which they have been awarded nor to train Extras.
(b) In early December of each year, the Company will post a notice inviting Employees to apply for training in a bargaining unit position other than their own and not related to training as a result of a job posting (such training to be referred to as “supplemental training”). Any Employee may apply for supplemental training in one position only.
Ifthe Company decides to select an Employee(s) for supplemental training for a position, it will consider:
(i)	the seniority of the Employees who have applied for training inthe position with preference to Employees with more departmental seniority in the department for the position and then by plant seniority; and also
(ii)	the willingness of those Employeesto work overtime as indicated by their history of working overtime,
provided however:
(jjj) an Employee will not be selected for supplemental training for a position where, in the opinion of the Company, the Employee has previously demonstrated that he is
#946569.16	48
unsatisfactory for the position or the Employee is already satisfactory to work overtime in the position; and
(iv)	the selection of an Employee will be subject to operational requirements, includingthe need to have the Employee work in their regular position.
During the time an Employee is receiving supplemental training, the Employee will be paid his regular rate of pay.
(c)	The Company will provide periodic updates to the Union through the Labour Management Committee in regard to the use of the special training hours.
(d)	A Supervisor for each department shall meet with a Steward forthat departmental least twice ayearto discuss training of Employees inthat department, including identifying jobs where training would be beneficial to operations and identifying which Employees in the department are interested in training which would make the Employee better able to advance in his/her classification.
ARTICLE26 -GENERAL
26.01	The Company will designate one (1)Bulletin Board for the use of the Union at a conspicuous place. Before posting, copies of bulletins and notices will be submitted to management for approval, approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
26.02	Tool allowances will be paid annually as follows:
(a)	Maintenance Men in Class 1, 2 and 3: Two Hundred and Twenty-Five Dollars ($225.00)
(b)	Powerhouse Operators: One Hundred and Twenty-Five Dollars ($125.00).
This amount is to be spent to replace broken, lost and damaged tools. Any additional expenditure to be approved by the Company, and the Company shall pay seventy percent (70%) of the additional approved expenditure.
#946569.16
49
26.03	(a) Freezer coats, quilted liners, coveralls and gloves, as required for work in certain departments of the Plant, will be supplied to Employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and must be returned for new issue or upon separation.
(b) The Company, on request, shall provide quilted liners to Full-Time Employees working in the Pork Cut Department or the Conversion Department on a fifty-fifty (50/50) cost sharing basis.
ARTICLE 27 - CORRESPONDENCE
27.01	Notice to Other Party
Any notice, in writing, that a party wishes to give to the other party, shall be given by mail, prepaid and addressed as follows, or faxed to the other party at the following fax numbers with the original to follow by mail:
To the Company:	Mike Lee
Plant Manager Maple Leaf Foods Inc.
PO Box 1600 Berwick NS BOP1EO
Fax: (902)534-2165
To the Union:	Atlantic Meatpackers
Union
PO Box 1052 Berwick NS BOPIEO
Fax: N/A
Either party may change its address and/or fax number at any time by giving notice of such change to the other party, as above provided.
0946569.16
50
27.02	Employee Addresses and Telephone Numbers
Employees shall keep their current residential address and telephone number on file with the Company and where any Employee moves during the currency of the Collective Agreement, such Employee shall deliver to the Company a written notice of such Employee's new address and telephone number. The Company shall be entitled to rely on the residential address and telephone number most recently on file with the Company when seeking to contact the Employee.
ARTICLE 28 -DURATION OF AGREEMENT
28.01	This Agreement is to remain in full force and effect for a period of four (4)yearsfrom September 18, 2009 and further negotiations will be subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia.
28.02	This Agreement will be automatically renewed from year to year unless one party gives to the other notice in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia.
28.03	Only the wage rates set out in Schedule “A” are retroactive and only persons who are Employees on the date of ratification of this Agreement are entitled to retroactive pay.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed and signed this Agreement the 18th day of May, 2010.
/
#946569.16
51
SCHEDULE "A"
WAGE RATES
Starting Rate- New Employees shall start at 85% of the base rate. This rate will be increased5% each three (3) months until the rate is reached. Starting Rate for experienced New Employees is 12C an hour less than classificationand an increase of 6C every three (3) months until classification rate is reached.
Extras- Extras shall be paid at 85% of the base rate. The base rate will be as follows:
September 18/10	$14.10
September 18/11	$14.40
September 18/12	$14.75
1.	MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Valid certificate holder intwo 21.55	21.80	22.10	22.45
of the following trades (Electrician,
Plumber, Industrial Mechanic/
Class 2-Valid Certificate Holder (Electrician, Welder, Industrial Mechanic and Refrigeration Mechanic); Department Mechanic (able to service and repair all machines in department)	20,13	20,38	20,68	21,03
Class3-Welder, Electrician, Refrigeration Technician; Pipefitter	19,45	19,70	20.00	20.35
Class4 -General Maintenance'	16.05	16.30	16.60	16,95
Class5 -General Help	13.85	14.10	14.40	14.75
2,	POWERHOUSE DEPARTMENT
Classl -Valid 3rd Class Power Engineer	19.03	19,28	19.58	19.93
Certificate or valid 4th Class Power EngineerCertification with 2nd Class
Class2-Valid 4th Class Power Engineer	18.53	18,78	19.08	19.43
Certificate
#946569.16
52
SLAUGHTER
Classl-Ableto do all jobs on kill line at line speed	16.76	17.01	17.31	17.66
Class 2-Able to do at least three jobs in Group A at line speed	16.56	16.81	17.11	17.46
Class3 -Group A - Scraper, Jowl Trimmer,	16.38	16.63	16.93	17.28
Head Skinner, Brisket Cutter, Bunger,
Eviscerator, Hog Splitter, Rail Trimmer Sticker, Trimmer, Unjoint Heads Group B: ScaldTank Operator,
Shackier, Gammer, Livestock Receiver,
Scaleman, Leaf Lard Puller, Head Boner,
Offals, Front Feet
Class4« Livestock Driver, Torchman,	15.03	15.28	15.58	15.93
Stamper
Class5 -General Help
13.85	14.10	14.40	14.75
4. PORK CUT DEPARTMENT
Classl* Ableto do alljobs at line speed 16.76	17.01	17.31	17.66
Class 2-Abletodoa combinationofthree 16.56	16.81	17.11	17.46
jobs in Group A of Class 3 at line speed
#946569.16
53
Class 3-
Group A - Loin Breaker, Loin Puller Operator, Belly Ribber, Butt Boner, Shoulder Trimmer
Group B-Shoulder Saw, Ham Saw, Loin Trimmer, Belly Trimmer, Ham Trimmer, Rind Machine
Class4-Scaleman (Weightand Strap)
16.38	16.63	16.93
15.03	15.28
Class5 - Hog Pusher, Hog Weigher, Bellie Rind, 13.91 Back Rind and Back Fat, Wrappers, Piling Off,
Sorter, Box Assembly, Hauling
15.58
14.46
Class 6-General Help
13.85	14.10	14.40	14.75
5. CONVERSIONDEPARTMENT
Classl - Skilled knifeman ableto do all cuts in 16.60 pork conversion at line speed
Class2 -Ham Boner, Loin Boner, Shoulder 16.48 Boner
16.85	17.15	17.50
16.73	17.03	17.38
Class3 - Service Person
14.95	15.20	15.50	15.85
Class4 -General Help
13.85	14.10	14.40
6. FRESH SAUSAGE DEPARTMENT
Classl - Batcher
Class2 - Cutter/Stuffe r
Class3»Weigfit/Pile/Ga$ Flush -Scoop Sausage
Class4 - Inventor/ Service - Weight/Pile
Class5 -General Help
16.48	16.73	17.03	17.38
16.22	16.47	16.77	17.12
15.01	15.26	15.56	1S.91
14.94	15.19	15.49	15.84
13.85	14.10	14.40	14.75
#946569.16
54
7.	MANUFACTURING DEPARTMENT Classl * Batcher/Grinder/Biender Class 2 - Stuffer
Class3-Scaleman, Headcheese Class 4 • Hanger Class5 -General Help
8.	CURING DEPARTMENT
16.48
16,22
16.01
14.94
13.85
16.73
16.47
16.26
15.19
14.10
17.03
16.77
16.56
15.49
14.40
17.38
17.12
16.91
15.84
14.75
Classl - Formulating	16,39	16.64
Class2 • Stuffer, Pump Operator, Scaleman	16.06	16,31
Class3-Hanger, Clipper	14.96	15,21
Class4-General help	13.85	14.10
16.94	17.29
16.61	16.96
15,51	15.86
14.40	14.75
9. SMOKEHOUSE OPERATOR Class 1
10. SHIPPING AND FREEZER DEFT.
Classl-Shipper, Freezer Operator, Booker,	16,54
inventory Control
Class 2-Stacker	16,43
Class3- Picker, Freezer Helper	15,23
Class4-General Help	13.85
16.79
16.68
15.48
14.10
17,09
16.98
15.78
14.40
17.44
17.33
16,13
14.75
#946569.16
55
10,	PACKAGINGDEPARTMENT
11.	CRYOVAC DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Pump Operator Class 2 - Other Employees in Dept. 12. SANITATION DEPARTMENT
Sept	Sept.	Sept.
18/08	18/10	18/11
14,98	15.23	15.53
15,88
15.23
14.95
15.48
15.20
15.78
15.50
16.13
15.85
(Clean Up Crew)
13. PLANT SERVICES (Box Room]
16.23	16.48	16.78	17.13
Class 1 -Chief Stock Clerk Class 2 -Stock Clerk Class 3 * General Help 14. PLANT SERVICES (Day Cleaning)
16.23
16.03
13.85
16.48
16.28
14,10
16,78
16.58
14.40
17.13
16.93
14.75
Wash Bay
Janitor, Laundry Operator
16.23
14.85
16.48
15.10
16.78
15.40
17.13
15.75
15. PLANTSERVICES (Knife Sharpener)
16. PLANT SERVICES (Effluent Control)
16.23	15.48	16.78	17.13
16.05	16.30	16.60	16.95
#946569.16
56
SCHEDULE"B"
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (Re Powerhouse)
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERS UNION AND
MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC.
The following terms and conditions of employment apply in the Powerhouse:
1. Hours of Work
(a)	Powerhouse Operatorsshall normally work 12 hour shifts. There shall be a four (4) week cycle alternating two (2)consecutive weeks of day shifts (four (4) shifts in one (1)week and three (3) shifts in the other) and two (2) consecutive shifts of night shifts (again with four (4) shifts in one (1)week and three (3) shifts in the other), resulting in an average of forty-two (42) hours per week.
(b)	Night shift: 7:30 p.m. to 7:30 a.m.;
Day shift: 7:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.
The twenty-four (24) hour day is considered to begin at 7:30 a.m. of the previousday, for example, the Monday shift starts at 7:30 a.m. and finishesat 7:30 a.m. on Tuesday.
(c)	An Operator is entitled to exercise seniority for shift preference once in a given calendar year in accordance with Article 17.04(a), subject to the Operator giving reasonableadvance notice and the change being effective at the start of a four week rotation describedin paragraphl(a) ofthis Memorandum.
(d)	Operators may trade shifts among themselves provided the arrangement is approved by the Supervisor involved. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, any such arrangement shall not result in additional cost to t he Company, either directly (for example, overtime) or indirectly.
(e)	Operators are entitled to four (4) breaks of fifteen (15) minutes during each twelve (12) hour shift at such times as are consistent with operational efficiency.
(f)	Operators shall not work more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours except in cases of an emergency. If an Operator is absent for his scheduled shift and a Relief Operator is not
hours would be offered as follows:	57
(i)	the shift will be offered to Operators who are not scheduled to work either the shift immediately beforeorthe shift immediately after the absent Operator and if there is more than one such Operator, preference will be based on departmental seniority;
(ii)	the first six (6) hours would be offered to the Operator working the shift immediately before the absent Operator, while the last six (6) hours would be offered to the Operator working the shift immediately after the absent Operator; and
(iii)	hourswhich are not taken bythe regular Operatorsin accordance with the above may be worked by the Chief Engineer.
2.	Compensation:
(a)	Weekly pay would be basedon an average forty-two (42) hours per week at straight time, subjectto adjustment for working more or less than the scheduled number of hours. For example, if an Operator was absent for one day, his pay for the week of the absence would be reduced by twelve (12) hours.
(b)	Overtime pay: time andone-half straight time rate of pay for hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours per day or in excess of the number of hoursscheduled for that week (thirty-six (36) or forty-eight (48) as the case may be); double straight time rate of pay after an Operator has worked six (6) hours overtime at time and one-half on any day.
(c)	Shift premium: In accordance with Article 11.10(b), Operators working the night
shift shall receive a shift premium of 60C per hour.
3.	Holidays:
(a)	Operatorsshall have eight (8) paid holidays. (Sincethese are twelve (12) hour days, they represent ninety-six (96) hours, which is equivalent to the twelve (12) holidays at eight (8) hours received by other employees).
(b)	Scheduling: Operators mustschedule holidays in advance and at such times that a Relief Operator could be available to work the shift. For example, two (2) Operatorsworking backto back shifts could not take the same day off if there was only one (1) Relief Operator because this would require the Relief Operatorto work twenty-four (24) consecutive hours.
#946569.16
58
(c)	Preference for scheduling holidays as between two (2) or more Operators will be based on departmental seniority.
(d)	Operatorsare not entitled to holidaysunder Article 12, but an Operatorwho workson one ofthe days listed in Article 12.01 as a fixed holiday shall be paid at t ime and one half straight time rate of pay for all hours worked on that day. For the purposes of this clause (d), the holiday is consideredto be the 24 hour period beginningat 8:00 p.m. ofthe day previousto the holiday; for example, if the holiday falls on a Monday, the holiday is considered to run from 8:00 o'clock Sunday evening until 8:00 o'clock Monday evening.
4.	Vacations:
(a)	Vacation time: Convertweeksto shifts based on the forty-two (42) hour per week average;
For example:	2 weeks - 7 shifts
3	weeks -10-1/2 shifts
4	weeks -14 shifts
(b)	Vacation pay: The greater of the following amounts:
(i)	the appropriate percentage of vacation pay base;
(ii) a normal shift's pay (twelve (12) hours att he regular hourly rate) for each shift, subject to reduction in accordance with Article 8.01(4)(b).
(c)	Vacation Scheduling:
(j)	Operators may be allowed to take vacations other than in blocks of calendar weeks, but normally would not be allowed to take only one (1)or two (2) vacation days. (Single days off can normally be obtained through scheduling of holidays.)
(11)	Vacation shall be scheduled	during the period March
through May in accordance with Article	8.02.
5.	Bereavement Leave:
Operators shall be entitled to two (2) days of bereavement leave with pay (two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts being equivalent to the three (3) days referred to i n Article 15.01).
6.	Sick Leave:
Operators can only draw on their sick leave bank in blocks of twelve
(12)	hours.
#946569.16	59
7.	Acting Chief Engineer
The Chief Engineer may designate one of the Operators as Acting Chief Engineer for any period of time when the Chief Engineer is away from the plant for more than seventy-two (72) hours.
8.	ReliefQperatorfsl:
(a)	The Company will appoint at	least one (1) Relief Operator;
(b)	All holidays and vacations of regular Operators will	be
scheduled so that the shifts can be covered by a Relief Operator(s);
(c)	A Relief Operator is expected to be available to relieve a regular Operator who is absent, including absences for such matters as illness or injury where the Company receivesvery little, if any, advance notice of the absence. In such cases, it will be impossible for the Company to give the Relief Operator the two weeks' notice of change of schedule normally required under Article 11.01(b).
That notice is therefore not required in such cases, but the Company is required to give the Relief Operator as much notice as reasonably possible and at l east four (4) hours' notice.
(d)	A Relief Operator shall work in the Powerhouse at straight time rates for up to twelve (12) hours a day and up to forty-eight (48) hour per week, or bank the hours in excess of eight (8) hours a day or forty (40) hours per week to be taken as time off.
DATED this 1R* day of May, 2010 at Berwick, N.S.
* La_
Maple Leaf Foods Inc.

.1_____/, l'l -L/t- ‘L-
Atlantic Meatpackers Union
i	( ' "V'	/
Cl Ty]^cSva/oi
Witness
#946569.16
60
SCHEDULE "C"
LETTER CF UNDERSTANDING (re Various Company Commitments)
This is to confirm that during negotiation of the September 18, 2005 Agreement, the Company made the following commitments:
1.	Re Group Insurance Benefits (Article 9.01): If, as a result of the Union's investigation of alternative group insurance benefit plans, the Union would prefer to have Employees covered by a benefit plan other than the plan designated by the Union on signing of this CollectiveAgreement, the Company would participate in the new plan, but that the Company's participation would be limited to its responsibilitiesunder9.01(b), that is, payment of its share of the premiums.
2.	Employee Lockers: At the time of the next major expansion of the plant, the Company will meet with Union representativesto discuss the feasibility of providing Employee lockers, with discussion to i nclude whether the lockers can be located in an area that is reasonably close to the work stations of most Employees and also the issue of biosecurity.
DATED this 18* day of May, 2010 at Berwick, N.S.
Maple Leaf Foods Inc.
Scftsmt, >7 t/l -a-/ /
Atlantic Meatpackers Union Witness
#946569.16
61
SCHEDULE"D"
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (reJOHSC)
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERS UNION AND
MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC.
The parties agree to the following with respect to the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee (the"JOHSC" orthe “Committee”):
-I)	It is recognizedthat where there are two or more Employees
from the same department on the JOHSC, there may be operational difficulties if the Committee was to do a plant tour or to hold a meeting during regularly scheduled hours of work. Therefore, where there are two or more Employees from the same department on the Committee, if such Committee functions are held outside regularly scheduled hours of work, the Employees will be paid at straight time rates while attending Committee functions. However, if all Employees on the Committee are from different departments, any Committee functions which take place outside regularly scheduled hours of work will be considered time worked for the purpose of calculating overtime.
2) The Union agrees that it is in the best interest of both the Company and the Union to have Union representatives on the Committee who are broadly representative of departments throughout the plant. During elections of the Union members to the Committee, the Union will attempt to attract members from different departments in order to have a broad Union representation on the Committee.
DATED this 18” day of May, 2010 a Berwick N.S.
SCHEDULE “E”
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING (Non-VoluntaryOvertime Procedure)
The parties recognize that from time to time it is necessary for employees to be available to work overtime hours in order to fill customer orders or as a result of unforeseen circumstances.
The parties further recognize that excessive overtime requirements can have negative impact on people's personal lives outside of work and should be minimized through the use of volunteers and other methods where possible. With this in mind, the parties agree to the following:
(i)	Daily Overtime-Where overtime is required beyond regularly scheduled shifts, the company agrees to first seek qualified volunteers and attempt to fill daily overtime requirements as per Article 11. If an inadequate number of volunteers are available to complete the work in a timely fashion, the employer agrees to schedule overtime in reverse order of seniority for a maximum of two (2) hours per day (to a maximum daily worked for 12 hours per day).
(a)	Except in the case of unforeseen emergencies, employees required to work overtime will be notified of such a requirement prior to their second paid break.
(b)	While employees are encouragedto volunteer for as much overtime as they wish, no employee will be required to work more than one daily overtime shift per week (whether voluntary or non-voluntary).
(c)	If individuals have unavoidable personal circumstances (with documentation provided if requested) that impact their ability to work daily overtime, the company will make reasonable efforts to accommodate such employees.
(ii)	Extra Days Overtime - Where overtime shifts are required beyond the regular weekly shift, the company agrees to first seek qualified volunteers and attempt to fill weekly overtime requirements as per Article 11. If an inadequate number of volunteers are available to complete the work in a
#946569.16	63
timely fashion, the company will schedule employees to work the shifts based on the following selection process:
(a)	“Extra days” overtime will be strictly voluntary except between June 1 and September 14 and between November 1 and December31 of each year.
(b)	No employee shall be required to work more than three (3) non-voluntary 'extra days' overtime shifts per year in addition to any voluntary overtime.
(c)	Before March 31 of each year the company will release a schedule of required ‘extra days’ overtime shifts, during the peak periodsas per 11.07 (f) (ii) (a).
(d)	Priorto April 30 of each year, each employee shall submit a ranking of preferred overtime dates, and such dates (maximum of three (3) per person) will be assigned in order of seniority (similar to vacation request process).
No employee will beexpectedto work more than one (1)non-voluntary 'extra days' overtime shift per week.
DATED this 18th day of May, 2010 at Berwick N.S
Maple Leaf Foods Inc.
#946569.16
SCHEDULE "F"
64
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
(re Overtime Procedure)
1.	Overtime
The parties agree that overtime shall be offered and distributed in the following manner on a trial basis. The parties will review these methods after a six (6) month trial period following the ratification of this Collective Agreement or at such earlier or later date as the parties may agree. At the time of review, the parties may, by mutual agreement, amend this Memorandum. If, after review, either party is not satisfied with the methods set out herein and there is not mutual agreement on amendment, the party may cancel the trial period, such cancellation to be effective one (1) month after notice of cancellation is given and overtime will then be offered and distributed in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in Article 11. Ifthe Memorandum is not cancelled after the review, it will continue in effect subject to amendment by mutual agreement.
2.	Saturday Overtime (Pre-Noon on Thursday)
Saturday overtime which is known to be required before 12 noon on the previous Thursday shall be offered and distributed as follows:
(a)	The overtime required will be posted by the scan clocks in the department where work is required and on the posting board at the top of the steps, on or before 12 noon on Thursday if possible.
If not possible, it will be posted as soon after 12 noon as possible.
(b)	The overtime posting shall be on a distinctive form which will have separate places for Full-Time Employees and Extras to sign up.
(c)	Employees who wish to work the overtime must sign up by 9:30 a.m. on that Friday.
(d)	Following9:30a.m. on that Friday, managementwill review both lists and by 12 noon that Friday, will post a list of those working in the department where the work is required on the posting board atthe top of the steps and will also put the list on the crewing line.
#946569.16	65
(e)	When an employee signs up for and is assigned overtime work in this manner, the work shall be considered scheduled work for purposes of attendance.
(f)	Additional work or vacancies that arise during the course of the overtime work shall be filled from the lists in accordance with overtime rules.
3.	Same Day Overtime (Pre 10:30 a.m.)
Same day overtime which is known to be required before 10:30 a.m. shall be offered and distributed as follows:
(a)	The overtime required will be posted by the scan clocks in the department where work is required and on the posting board at the to p of the steps as early as possible, but no later than 10:30 a.m.
(b)	The overtime posting shall be a distinctive form which will have separate places for Full-Time Employees and Extras to sign up.
(c)	Employees who wish to work the overtime must sign up by 1:00 p.m. that day.
(d)	Following 1:00 p.m., management will review both lists and by 2:00 p.m. will post a I ist of those working in the department where the work is required and on the posting board att he top of the steps.
(e)	When an employee signs up for and is assigned overtime work in this manner, the work shall be considered scheduled work for purposes of attendance.
(f)	Additional work or vacancies that arise during the course of the overtime work shall be filled from the lists in accordance with overtime rules.
#946569.16
66
4.	“Last Minute Overtime"
“Last minute overtime” is overtime which is required on a day but which arises after 10:30 a.m. or which is required on a Saturday but arises after 12 noon the previousThursday. Last minute overtime will be offered and distributed from the quarterly list in accordance with the overtime rules set out in Article 11 ofthe Collective Agreement.
DATED this 18th day of May, 2010 at Berwick, N.S
' ' ' (J
1/1

Maple Leaf Foods - Berwick /'?
r--c
Atlantic Meatpackers Union
u\jj.oSfi\QRjmaJA
Witness
#946569.16
67