COLLECTIVE
LABOUR
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERS UNION
- AND -
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
Sept. 18, 2001 - Sept. 18, 2005
0946569 04.DOC
00250 (07)
I N D E X
ARTICLE		PAGE
1.	DEFINITION	1
2.	PURPOSE	2
3.	RECOGNITION	2
4.	CHECK-OFF	3
5.	UNION SECURITY	3
6.	STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS	4
7.	WAGES	5
8.	VACATIONS	5
9.	SOCIAL SECURITY	7
10.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	8
11.	HOURS OF WORK	9
12.	HOLIDAYS & SUNDAYS	14
13.	MANAGEMENT	15
14.	SAFETY & HEALTH PRECAUTIONS	17
15.	BEREAVEMENT	19
16.	PENSION	20
17.	SENIORITY	20
18.	TRANSFERS	25
19.	ABSENTEEISM	25
20.	LEAVE OF ABSENCE	26
21.	SICK LEAVE	27
22.	SEVERANCE PAY ON PLANT CLOSURE	28
23.	FLOATERS	28
24.	EXTRAS	29
25.	TRADES APPRENTICES	32
26.	LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE	35
27.	GENERAL	36
0946569 04.DOC
28. DURATION OF AGREEMENT	37
SCHEDULE "A" - CHECK OFF DUES DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION 38 SCHEDULE "B" - WAGE RATES	39
SCHEDULE "C" - MEMO RE CERTAIN WAGE RATES	45
SCHEDULE "D" - MEMO RE LUMP SUM PAYMENTS	47
SCHEDULE "E" - MEMO RE POWERHOUSE	48
SCHEDULE “F” - MEMO RE “RCA” EMPLOYEES	53
SCHEDULE “G” - LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE VARIOUS COMPANY	55
COMMITMENTS
SCHEDULE “H” - MEMO RE JOHSC	56
0946569 04.DOC
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERS UNION - and -
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED Its Successors or Assigns
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
1.01	It is agreed by the parties that, except where a contrary intention appears in this Agreement:
(a)	Bargaining Unit - means the bargaining unit described in Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board Order No. 884, dated October 8, 1964 (all employees of the Company, but excluding farm hands, buyers and salesmen, foremen and above that rank, office employees and those excluded by the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia) and subsequent Board Order No. 4948 dated November 9, 2001 and any amendments issued by the Board or changes agreed to by the parties in writing;
(b)	Company - means Larsen Packers Limited and any successors in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Union Act (Nova Scotia);
(c)	Employees - means the Employees in the bargaining unit;
(d)	"shall" is imperative and "may" is permissive;
(e)	Union - means Atlantic Meatpackers Union;
(f)	Union officers - means the President, Vice-president and the Chief Steward;
(g)	words importing male persons include female persons;
(h)	words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular;
(i)	every Schedule attached hereto is a part of this Agreement;
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 5 -
(j)	Plant Seniority is defined as the length of service in the bargaining unit from date of hire as a Full-Time Employee or Floater, but excluding time as an Extra before being employed as a Full-Time Employee or Floater (subject to the credit provided in this Agreement for time worked as an Extra) and also excluding all time on layoff in excess of seven (7) calendar days if the Employee advises the Company that he is not available to work as a Floater or Extra; and
(k)	Departmental Seniority is defined as the length of service in a department since the date of commencement of the last uninterrupted period of employment in that department.
ARTICLE 2 - PURPOSE
2.01	The purpose of this Agreement is:
(a)	to promote and maintain harmonious relations between the Company and its Employees and to establish rules governing relations between them;
(b)	to facilitate the solution of such problems within the jurisdiction of this Agreement as may arise from time to time;
(c)	to establish and maintain a high degree of discipline and efficiency.
ARTICLE 3 - RECOGNITION
3.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for the purpose of bargaining collectively for all the Employees of the Company as defined herein, the whole in accordance with the Order granted by the Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board on October 8, 1964, being Order No. 884 and subsequent Order No. 4948 dated November 9, 2001, and any amendments thereto or changes agreed to by the parties in writing.
3.02	Insofar as the law permits, the Company will not bargain collectively during the term of this Agreement with any other labour organization affecting these Employees.
3.03	The Company will not act or be required to act upon any question ofjurisdiction that may arise between the Union and any other union.
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 6 -
3.04	The Company will not unreasonably withhold permission to the President or other representative of the Union to enter the Plant at reasonable times to discuss with the Union officers and/or stewards, matters relating to the administration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK-OFF
4.01	The Company agrees that, upon receipt of written authorization in the form set out in Schedule "A" to this Agreement, it will deduct from the Employees' earnings weekly during the term of this Agreement, the amount of the Union dues, together with any special assessment* authorized to be deducted (it shall be the responsibility of the Union to notify the Company of the amount of the dues and of the date and amount of any special assessment) and will transmit the total sum of the amount so deducted to the Treasurer of the Union during the month following the deduction of dues. Membership applications will be completed on employment. Initiation fees will be deducted with the Employee's first dues deduction.
*This term includes initiation fees.
4.02	All Employees shall have dues deducted and remitted to the Union.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY
5.01	All present Employees, as a condition of employment, shall remain Union members in good standing. All new Employees, as a condition of employment, shall become and remain Union members in good standing within sixty (60) days of employment. A list of new Employees shall be given to the Chief Steward at the end of each pay period. Every six (6) months, the Employer will provide the Union with a list of Employees (which includes Extras, but not Students), together with their addresses and phone numbers as shown on the records of the Company.
5.02	The Union shall indemnify and hold harmless the Company from acting upon or relying upon any statement by or on behalf of the Union that the Union membership of any Employee has ceased.
The indemnity shall cover all damages, costs or expenses otherwise incurred.
5.03	Foreman and above shall not perform work of bargaining unit Employees, except for emergencies, training, instruction and sundry departmental duties not in excess of one (1) hour per day.
5.04
The Company recognizes that stewards and officers have duties and responsibilities towards,
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 7 -
and on behalf of, the Union and are required at times to leave their jobs to investigate and process grievances, or discuss, with supervision, other matters affecting Employees. The Union recognizes that stewards and officers are Employees of the Company and, as such, have jobs to perform on behalf of the Company. When it becomes necessary for officers or stewards to leave their jobs to attend to the above matters, the steward concerned shall obtain the permission of the foreman concerned before leaving his work. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld, and arrangements will be made by their foreman to leave their jobs, with no loss of pay, as soon as reasonably possible, but normally not later than one (1) hour following that request. The Union agrees that there will not normally be duplication of duties or responsibilities of its stewards and officers, however, it is recognized that there may be times, when, because of the circumstances, the Union or the Company may deem it necessary to have more than one representative attend to the matter. The time away from productive work shall not be excessive and shall be reported in accordance with the time keeping method of the department in which the steward is employed.
5.05	At times, it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors. Any decision to do so shall be based on the following factors:
(a)	the availability of Employees with the required skills;
(b)	the urgency of the work to be done;
(c)	cost.
If the work can be performed by Employees as efficiently (based on the above factors) as by outside contractors, the work shall be assigned to Employees. If work is to be performed by an outside contractor, the contractor may do the entire job. Before having work performed by outside contractors, the Company shall discuss with the Union its intent to do so whenever reasonably possible. (For example, it may not be reasonably possible in cases of emergency.) This Article 5.05 does not restrict the Company in regard to installation and construction work.
5.06	The Company will not displace Full-Time Employees for the purpose of using Floaters, Extras or Apprentices.
ARTICLE 6 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
6.01	The Union agrees it will not authorize any strike, slowdown or cessation of work contrary to
the Trade Union Act.
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 8 -
6.02	The Company agrees that it will not lock out contrary to the Trade Union Act.
6.03	Due to the perishable nature of the product, proper preservation conditions must be maintained at all times. The Union undertakes that it shall not take any action in any way detrimental to adequate product preservation or the maintenance of product preserving equipment. Should a legal strike and/or lockout occur, the Company will be responsible for the preservation of its product.
ARTICLE 7 - WAGES
7.01	The Schedule of Classifications and Rates shall be as set out in Schedule "B".
7.02	The Company may create new job classifications and/or new departments provided it first discusses any new classification/department with the Union.
If such discussion fails to result in agreement on rate of pay for a new classification, the Company shall assign a rate commensurate with the rate structure of this Agreement. The Union may require that the rate be finally determined by means of the grievance and arbitration procedure.
When a new department is being implemented (but not if an existing department is being split into two departments), the Company shall post for the jobs according to Article 17.10. Employees who post into the new department and have the same departmental seniority date shall be ranked on the departmental seniority list in accordance with plant seniority.
ARTICLE 8 - VACATIONS
8.01	(1) Vacation Pay Schedules:
Years of Continuous Service	Amount of Vacation Pay	Time Off
Between 1 and 5 Years	4% of vacation pay base	2 weeks
Between 5 and 10 Years	6% of vacation pay base	3 weeks
Between 10 and 15 Years	8% of vacation pay base	4 weeks
15 Years or more	10% of vacation pay base	5 weeks
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 9 -
(2)	Vacation Pay Base - means the total earnings (as shown on T-4) of an Employee from the Company for the previous calendar year (January 1 to December 31, inclusive).
(3)	Service - means the total years of service in the bargaining unit from date of hire as a Full-Time Employee or Floater and excluding time as an Extra before being employed as a Full-Time Employee or Floater, (subject to the credit provided in Article 24.08 for time worked as an Extra).
The service calculation date for vacation is March 1 of the current calendar year.
(4)	Amount of Vacation Pay - the amount of vacation pay shall be the greater of the following amounts:
(a)	the appropriate percentage of vacation pay base, or
(b)	vacation pay for each week of vacation for hourly-rated Employees shall be the normal weekly hours at the regular hourly rate, provided that this amount will be reduced by 1/52nd for each week of absence (including any period during which an Employee works twenty-four (24) hours per week or less) when an Employee is absent for more than six (6) months.
8.02	(a) Each Employee shall indicate his first, second, and third choice for the first two (2) weeks of his vacation entitlement by the 15th day of March. The Company shall post a vacation schedule by the 15th day of April. Scheduling of the balance of vacation entitlement shall take place not later than the 31st of May, with preferences submitted no later than the 1st day of May. Employees may also indicate a preference for taking their full vacation entitlement without interruption in months other than June, July, August and the deer hunting season.
(b) Preference in scheduling vacations will be on the basis of departmental seniority, provided however Employees who do not submit their requests for vacation by the required date shall lose their opportunity to receive preference over other Employees who have less departmental seniority, but who submit their requests by the required date.
8.03	If a defined holiday is observed during the vacation period of any Employee, the vacation shall be lengthened by one (1) working day.
8.04	If a defined holiday is observed during the vacation period of any Employee, the Employee
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 10 -
will be allowed a compensatory day's holiday, with pay, at the Employee's regular rate.
8.05	Vacation periods shall not be accumulated from year to year.
8.06	All deductions normally made from an Employee's regular pay may be deducted from the Employee's vacation pay.
8.07	When Foremen and above the rank of Foremen take their vacation, it will have no effect on any bargaining unit Employee's vacation.
8.08	(a) At least fifteen percent (15%), rounded up, of bargaining unit Employees in any department can take their vacation at the same time. For example, in a department with twenty-one (21) Employees, the calculation of the minimum number of Employees who can take their
0946569 04.DOC
vacation at the same time would be as follows: 21 x 15% = 3.15 - which is rounded up to four (4).
(b)	Notwithstanding that the calculation in paragraph (a) may allow only one (1) Employee in a department to be on vacation at a time, the Company will make reasonable efforts, subject always to operational requirements, to allow up to two (2) Employees in the same department to take their vacation at the same time.
8.09	An Employee with more than two (2) weeks' vacation entitlement may elect to waive the excess and receive the resulting excess vacation pay in December (or at such other time as may be mutually agreed between the Company and an individual Employee). Such an election shall not affect an Employee's preference for his other weeks of vacation.
ARTICLE 9 - SOCIAL SECURITY
9.01	(a) The Company will participate in the group benefit plan(s) designated in writing by the Union. All permanent Employees (Full-Time Employees and Floaters) shall participate in the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, an Employee can opt out of the group health care (medical and dental) so long as the Employee has comparable coverage through the spouse's employment.
(b)	The Company's responsibility in regard to group insurance is limited to the payment of its share of the premiums. Costs of the premiums will be shared equally between the Company and the Employees, provided that the Company's share of premiums during the term of this Agreement shall not exceed the following amounts:
(i)	for family coverage: Ninety Dollars and Thirty Cents ($90.30) per month, increasing the month after signing of this Agreement to One Hundred Dollars and Thirty Cents ($100.30) per month; and
(ii)	for single coverage: Fifty-Six Dollars and Seventy Cents ($56.70) per month, increasing the month after signing of this Agreement to Sixty-Two Dollars and Ninety-Eight Cents ($62.98).
9.02	While an Employee is on leave for medical reasons, the Employee shall be entitled to coverage under the Group Benefit Plans (subject to the terms of the Plans), provided the Employee reimburses the Company on a monthly basis for his share of the premiums or the Company agrees to alternative arrangements.
0946569 04.DOC
9.03	The Company will advance money in workers' compensation cases to cover the period between the injury or the filing of the claim and the first payment from the Workers' Compensation Board.
ARTICLE 10 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
10.01	The term "grievance" includes an alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Collective Labour Agreement.
10.02	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the Chief Steward and Departmental Stewards and of any subsequent changes in the names thereof.
10.03	The grievance procedure is available to all Employees. Union and Employee grievances must be taken up within five (5) days after the alleged grievance has arisen.
10.04	PROCEDURE
(1)	STEP 1 - The aggrieved Employee, with his Departmental Steward, shall discuss the matter with the foreman or forelady of the Department. The foreman or forelady shall give his/her decision within two (2) days of the discussion with the Employee.
STEP 2 - Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement within the two (2) days allowed for the foreman's reply, the Chief Steward and the Departmental Steward shall discuss the matter with the Superintendent. The Superintendent shall give his decision within two (2) days of his discussion with the Chief Steward.
STEP 3 - Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement within the two (2) days allowed for the Superintendent's reply, the Chief Steward or his designate shall submit the complaint in writing to the Plant Manager or his designate. Within five (5) days after the Plant Manager has received the written complaint, the Superintendent and Plant Manager, or their designates, shall meet with the Union President and Vice-president, or their designates. The Company shall reply in writing (although reasons are not required) within two (2) days of the meeting.
(2)	Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement, either the Union or the Company may request a meeting of the Union President, Vice-president and Chief Steward, or their designates, and the Company President, Plant Manager and Director of Human Resources, or their designates, to discuss the matter. The meeting shall take place within four (4) days of the receipt of the request and the President (or his designate) shall reply in writing, with reasons, within two (2) days after the meeting.
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 13 -
(3)	The aggrieved Employee may attend at any stage of the Grievance Procedure. An aggrieved Employee who is reasonably required to attend a grievance meeting at Step 2 or Step 3 may do so without loss of pay.
(4)	Employee grievances arising out of discharge will be commenced within three (3) days of the dismissal and shall begin at STEP 3 upon written notice from the Grievance Committee, stating the grounds of objection to the dismissal.
(5)	A request for a wage adjustment due to any error in calculation of pay, if not answered within four (4) days, may be treated as a grievance and handled progressively, beginning with STEP 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
10.05	Time Limits:
(a)	The time limits specified in this Article shall be deemed to be exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and fixed holidays.
(b)	Any of the time limits may be extended at any stage by mutual consent.
10.06	Unresolved grievances shall be referred in writing to an Arbitration Committee composed as follows:
(a)	a single arbitrator where both parties agree; or
(b)	three (3) arbitrators - one (1) appointed by the Union, one (1) appointed by the Company, and a third appointed by the first two (2) within one (1) week of their appointment, and if the third is not appointed within this time, either party may apply to the Minister of Labour for the Province of Nova Scotia to make the appointment.
10.07	The decision of a single arbitrator appointed under 10.06 (a) or the decision of the majority appointed under 10.06 (b), shall be final and binding upon all parties. The decision shall not alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, nor make any general changes, such as changes in wage rates agreed upon.
10.08	The Company and the Union agree to bear equally the fees and expenses of the single arbitrator appointed under 10.06 (a) and of the third arbitrator appointed under 10.06 (b).
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 14 -
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	(a) The normal work week (excluding the Powerhouse - see Schedule “E”) shall consist of
five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days. This is not a guarantee by the Company of hours of work per day or per week or of days of work per week. It is also understood that in special circumstances, the five (5) days may not be consecutive (for example, stock taking).
(b)	All Employees are subject to scheduling, provided the Company gives the affected Employee and the Union, two (2) weeks' notice of the change in schedule. However, two (2) weeks' notice is not required where:
(i)	there is mutual agreement between an individual Employee and the Company;
(ii)	the change of schedule is for one (1) hour or less, provided:
- it is made because of events beyond the control of the Company (for example, because of customer requirements or a delay in arrival of fresh pork);
-	the Employee(s) is advised by the end of the previous day's shift;
-	the Company shall accommodate couples who are both employed with the Company and who have child care obligations so only one (1) spouse can be required to attend without the two (2) weeks' notice;
-	the exception may only be applied by the Company twice a week for any individual Employee;
-	before applying this exception, the Company will first attempt to deal with the situation by asking for volunteers from among qualified Employees affected and obtaining mutual agreement.
If the start time is delayed under this paragraph (ii) and an Employee wishes to leave at the time when the shift is normally scheduled to end, the Employee may ask his Supervisor for permission to leave at the normal quitting time and such request shall not be unreasonably refused.
(c)	If a seven (7) day continuous operation is instituted, the Company will discuss and
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 15 -
negotiate with the Union, a formula to provide Employees with similar benefits for the holiday pay for holidays falling on days that they were not scheduled to work.
(d)	The days of work, daily hours, starting and quitting times, and the duration of lunch breaks and work breaks may be altered because of changes in the terms or conditions relating to government inspection staff.
11.02	It is understood that at the start of an Employee’s scheduled shift, the Employee is to be at his work station. On the first occasion an Employee is late by five (5) minutes or less, the Employee will be advised by his Supervisor that he was late and this may be confirmed in writing, but will not be considered a formal warning. On any other occasions an Employee is late, the Employee is subject to discipline for just cause in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
11.03	Overtime shall be paid as follows:
(a)	all Employees - for each hour worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day - one and one-half (1-1/2) straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis;
(b)	all Employees - for each hour worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week - one and one-half (1-1/2) straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis;
(c)	all Employees - for each of the first four (4) hours worked on days outside of the scheduled work week - one and one-half (1-1/2) straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis;
(d)	all Employees - for each hour worked in excess of ten and one-half (10U) hours per day, and for each hour worked in excess of four (4) hours, on days outside of the scheduled work week - two (2) times their straight time rate of pay, calculated on an hourly basis.
Provided nothing herein shall be construed to provide overtime on overtime, and that the only premium for overtime work is either daily or weekly, but not both.
11.04	The Company agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each, (station to station), provided that the working time of any one (1) shift exceeds two and one-half (2U) hours. An Employee shall receive two (2) rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each provided that the total working time is six (6) hours or more. The rest periods will be scheduled at approximately the mid point of each half of the shift, subject to change by the Company in accordance with its production schedule and the requirements of business, provided however there shall not be a break within one (1) hour after the
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 16 -
starting time of the shift or one (1) hour after the lunch break. If an Employee continues working at the end of his shift and works more than three-quarters (3/4) of an hour beyond eight (8) hours per day, the Company agrees to grant a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period or pay in lieu of the rest period. The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, Employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day. The Union agrees that rest periods are a privilege and should not be abused.
11.05	An Employee is not required to work a shift which is scheduled to commence within eight (8) hours of completion of the Employee’s previous shift, but it is understood that if the Employee elects not to work the second shift, the Company has no obligation to reschedule the Employee to make up for the hours lost as a result of not working the second shift. (For example, if a Floater works a shift which ends at 12 midnight, the employee is not required to work a shift which starts at 7 o’clock the next morning. However, if the Employee elects not to work the 7 a.m. shift, the Company has no obligation to schedule the Employee to make up those hours; whether or not the Employee gets called for a shift later the same day will depend upon the Company’s requirements.)
11.06	When an Employee is recalled to work outside his scheduled working hours, he shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at straight time rates, notwithstanding that he worked less than four (4) hours, or overtime rates for overtime hours actually worked, whichever is greater.
11.07	Scheduled overtime shall commence one-half ('A) hour after normal quitting time, provided the Company is able to arrange for the necessary government inspection to commence at that time.
11.08	(a) When it is decided during a shift that overtime is required at the end of the shift, overtime will be offered to Employees in the following order of preference:
(i)	Employees on duty by departmental seniority;
(ii)	other Employees on duty by plant seniority from the Plant Overtime List;
(iii)	Employees not on duty by departmental seniority; and
(iv)	other Employees not on duty by plant seniority from the Plant Overtime List.
In all other cases, the order of preference is firstly, by departmental seniority, and then by plant seniority from the Plant Overtime List.
Notwithstanding the above, in all cases of overtime, the Company is not obliged to offer overtime to an Employee under this paragraph (a) if an Employee has a scheduled shift which
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 17 -
commences within eight (8) hours of the expected completion of the overtime; and provided also that Employees on approved leave will be excluded from these provisions.
(b) The Company will solicit names from Employees interested in performing overtime work in departments other than their own; and prepare a Plant Overtime List. The Company reserves the right to require an applicant to demonstrate his/her ability to perform the work at line speed, in a proper and efficient manner.
0946569 04.DOC
Failure to meet the job requirements will result in the applicant's name being removed from the List for that particular job. The Plant's Overtime List will be revised quarterly. A senior Employee who has designated his/her desire to work on the overtime list, who is missed, will be paid for all hours a junior Employee worked, at the applicable overtime rate. All work referred to above will continue to be voluntary.
(c)	The Company may supplement the Plant Overtime List by developing a weekly overtime list for Employees interested in performing overtime work in departments other than their own. Each Thursday morning, the Company may post a copy of the Plant Overtime List with a request that the Employees indicate their interest in performing overtime work the following week. The list will be taken down by 10 a.m. on Tuesday of the following week and a copy of that list shall be given to a Union representative. Once the list has been removed, there will be no additions to the list. The Company may then use the weekly list instead of the quarterly list to offer overtime by plant seniority. If the Company goes through the weekly list and still needs more Employees, it may go to the top of the quarterly list and call from that list (without duplicating calls from the weekly list). If there are still insufficient volunteers, the Company may use Extras.
(d)	It is understood that the Company requires that any major electrical work be done by an Employee with an electrician's ticket and therefore overtime would not be offered to an Employee, whether regularly employed in the Maintenance Department or not, who does not hold the required ticket.
11.09	Unless an Employee has been notified beforehand not to report to work, an Employee reporting for work at a scheduled starting time shall be provided with a minimum of four (4) hours' work or pay in lieu thereof.
11.10	The Company agrees to allow Employees to continue banking overtime pay. Each Employee may bank a maximum of forty-eight (48) times their straight time rate.
Banked overtime may be withdrawn with an approved leave at the mutual consent of the Employee and the Company. (Any Employee seeking consent for leave shall apply to his foreman personally.) Payment for banked overtime pay can be drawn by the Employee at any time during the calendar year provided the Employee applies on the standard form to be made available by the Company and the completed form is submitted to the payroll department no later than Wednesday for payment on Friday (payday) of the following week. Any amount outstanding at the end of the calendar year will be paid to the Employee within fifteen (15) days.
11.11	The Company agrees to pay a shift premium as follows:
(a) forty cents (400) per hour for scheduled shifts which commence at or after 12 noon up
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 19 -
to, but not including 4:30 a.m.; effective September 18, 2002, this premium shall increase to forty-five cents (450) and effective September 18, 2003, it shall increase to fifty cents (500);
(b)	fifty cents (500) (that is, an additional ten cents (100)) for scheduled shifts which
commence at or after 8 p.m. up to, but not including 2:30 a.m.; effective September 18,
2002,	this premium shall increase to fifty-five cents (550) and effective September 18,
2003,	it shall increase to sixty cents (600);
11.12	If, during a shift, an Employee is absent on approved leave and the Employee is required to work in addition to the scheduled hours, that Employee shall receive the overtime rate, although the Employee has not worked eight (8) hours.
11.13	The Company will schedule those Full-Time Employees who work the Tuesday to Saturday shifts in Shipping so that each week one of those Employees has the opportunity to have Saturday off. The schedule will be prepared in advance. An Employee who does not want his scheduled Saturday off must advise the Company more than a week in advance, but it is understood that if an Employee decides not to take his scheduled Saturday off, no other Employee shall be entitled to be scheduled off on that Saturday.
11.14	The Company will establish a rotation system for gaming and sticking hogs on the kill floor. Rotation will be every one (1) hour (or less) from the above heavy-duty jobs to lighter-duty jobs. Additional jobs may be added to the above, following agreement in the Labour-Management Committee.
ARTICLE 12 - HOLIDAYS & SUNDAYS
12.01	The Company agrees to pay all Employees at their regular rates for the following holidays when not worked:
New Year's Day	Victoria Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day	Remembrance Day
Boxing Day Christmas Eve
Canada Day	two (2) Floating Holidays
Labour Day
If any of the above-defined fixed holidays fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the day proclaimed in its stead
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 20 -
will be named by the Company.
Floating holidays are to be taken with the consent of the Company and on the basis of first come, first serve.
If an Employee ceases employment with the Company before July 1 of any year, after having taken both floating holidays for the year, the Employee is liable to the Company for holiday pay for the second floating holiday and, without restricting the Company's remedy, the Company is authorized to deduct such amount from the Employee's final pay.
12.02	Employees working on the above holidays shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at straight time rates and shall in addition, be paid double time rates for all hours worked on such holidays.
12.03	(1) Employees absent on the working days next preceding or next following any of the defined holidays shall not be entitled to pay for such holidays, unless the absentee received permission from the Company to be absent or was absent because of sickness, evidenced by a Medical Certificate.
(2)	Employees who do not work eight (8) hours on the working days next preceding or next following any one of the defined holidays may have their holiday pay reduced proportionally so that for each hour missed on either day, the Employee's holiday pay will be reduced by one (1) hour's pay, unless the Employee missing time received permission from the Company to be absent or late or was absent or late because of sickness, evidenced by a Medical Certificate.
12.04	The Company agrees to pay the regular hourly rated Employees double time (two (2) times straight time rates) for work performed on Sunday, except by stationary engineers and for other classifications when the work is regularly done on Sunday.
ARTICLE 13 - MANAGEMENT
13.01	The management of the Company's business, properties and plant, and the direction and distribution of the working forces including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the right to hire, suspend, discipline, discharge, lay-off from duty because of lack of work or other legitimate reasons, and to promote, demote and transfer, to introduce new or improved production methods or facilities or to change existing production methods or facilities, the determination of the lay-out and equipment to be used on the business, the processes, techniques, methods and means of manufacture and production and distribution remain in and are vested exclusively in the Company.
13.02	Disciplinary Rules & Penalties - immediate Discharge Offences. The following are mutually
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 21 -
agreed and conclusively deemed to be just cause for immediate discharge:
(1)	reporting for work under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, or with abilities impaired by alcohol and/or drugs;
(2)	possessing or drinking any alcoholic beverage and/or drugs on the Company's premises;
(3)	falsifying time cards or other records;
(4)	refusing to obey orders of Foreman or other members of the Supervisory Staff and/or to do work as assigned;
(5)	misuse or removal from the plant without proper authorization, Company material, products or property;
(6)	deliberate abuse or destruction of Company property, tools, and equipment, or the property of other Employees;
(7)	threatening, intimidation, physically assaulting or coercing Employees or members of the Supervisory Staff; or
(8)	theft of Company property or the property of other Employees.
13.03	Disciplinary Rules & Penalties - Lesser Offences
(1) For breach of the rules and regulations listed in the Plant and including any revisions or additions thereto, (provided the Company consults with the Union at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to any revisions or additions), the Employee will be disciplined:
(a)	in the first instance by warning or reprimand which does not involve loss of work or loss of pay as a part of such warning or reprimand;
(b)	in the second instance, suspension of employment for a period of two (2) weeks, without pay, and the Union will be notified of the date and duration of the suspension; and
(c)	subsequent violations are conclusively deemed to be cause for immediate discharge.
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 22 -
(2) All disciplinary action to become null and void after eighteen (18) months.
13.04	Larsen Packers Limited acknowledges its responsibility to foster a productive work environment which is free of offensive behaviour and discrimination which is contrary to the Human Rights Act (Nova Scotia). The Company has a policy on Sexual Harassment and therefore, sexual harassment in the work place will not be tolerated.
13.05	The Chief Steward, or in the absence of the Chief Steward, a designated alternate, when available on Company premises, will be present for all disciplinary reprimands to be entered on an Employee's record.
13.06	If an Employee is called to a private meeting with the Company and the Company has a reasonable expectation that discipline will be imposed:
(a)	the Company shall inform the Employee that he has a right to have a Union Steward present and if the Employee states that he wishes to have a Union Steward present, the Company will not refuse the request; and
(b)	the Company will notify the Union prior to the meeting that such a meeting will be held with the Employee (but there is no obligation to provide particulars of the issue to be discussed with the Employee).
13.07	Within seven (7) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and fixed holidays) of the Company advising an Employee that a suspension will be imposed and the length of the suspension, the Company shall advise the Employee in writing, with a copy to the Union, of the dates of the suspension. This is not applicable to a situation where an Employee is suspended indefinitely pending further investigation, but only to a situation where the Company has determined and advised the Employee of the specific length of the suspension.
ARTICLE 14 - SAFETY & HEALTH PRECAUTIONS
14.01	The Company shall make reasonable provision for the safety and health of its Employees during working hours.
14.02	Any medical examination requested by the Company shall be promptly complied with by all Employees, provided, however, that the Company bears the expense of such examination. The
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 23 -
Company reserves the right to select its own medical examiner or physician for group examinations. In the case of individual examinations, a family physician may be used, however, the Company reserves the right to require a second medical opinion.
14.03	The Company shall provide hard hats, coats and other appropriate safety equipment to be worn by all Employees. The Company shall provide eighty-five percent (85%) of the cost of aprons and wet suits. The Company will provide an annual Safety Boot Allowance of Seventy Dollars ($70.00), increasing to Eighty Dollars ($80.00) effective January 1, 2002 and increasing to Ninety Dollars ($90.00) effective January 1, 2003. This will be payable to each regular Employee with more than six (6) months' seniority; it will also be provided to Extras after completion of ten (10) months of employment and in the subsequent calendar years. This allowance can only be claimed once in any one (1) calendar year.
14.04	A joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall be established consisting of three (3) representatives of the Company and three (3) representatives of the Union.
The joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee shall tour the plant once per month, after which the Committee shall meet to discuss, record and identify matters which require attention.
The Committee shall maintain records and minutes of Committee meetings in a form and manner approved by the Provincial Director of Occupational Health and Safety and will provide the Director with a copy of those records and minutes upon request.
The Committee shall participate in inspections, inquiries, and investigations concerning the occupational health and safety of the Employees.
One (1) Committee member representing the Union and one (1) from the Company may accompany the Safety Inspector during his inspection of the plant.
14.05	The Committee, through the co-operation of the Company, shall establish a prevention program that includes information and training in health and safety matters, and make recommendations to the Employees and any person for the improvement of the health and safety of persons at the work place.
Any Employee may refuse to do any act at the work place where the Employee has reasonable grounds to believe that the act is likely to endanger his health or safety or the health or safety of any other Employee.
The Employee will first report to his supervisor.
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 24 -
Employees who refuse a job as stated above, may be reassigned to other work until they are able to return to their regular work. During such period of reassignment, the Employee will be paid the same wages and benefits as if they continued their normal job.
Another Employee may be assigned to the job in question, providing the Employee has been advised of the refusal by another Employee, the reason for refusal and their rights to refuse the job for similar reasons.
If the matter is not rectified, the Employees shall report the matter to the Committee representative. The Committee representative shall convene a meeting of the joint Committee, which shall have equal representation.
If the Committee does not resolve a matter and advises the Employee to return to work, but the Employee continues to refuse, a member of senior management will evaluate the situation. If that does not result in a resolution, the unresolved matter shall be referred to the Occupational Health and Safety Division (Nova Scotia) for investigation. If, after a full investigation by the Director of Occupational Health and Safety, the Employee's refusal is not upheld, the Employee may be disciplined and the matter may be subject to the grievance procedure.
14.06	The Company will schedule each Full-Time Employee two (2) hours per calendar year (prorated for persons who become Full-Time Employees during the year) for Health and Safety Seminars. These Seminars will be available on Company premises and will be without cost to the Union or the Employee.
The Employees shall be paid their regular straight time rate for the time in attendance at Health and Safety Seminars.
14.07	An Employee who is injured at work, but is not off work long enough to be eligible for compensation under the Workers' Compensation Act (Nova Scotia) under the so-called "two-fifths deductible" rule, shall be paid for fifty percent (50%) of time lost from work on the day of injury as a result of the injury; provided however, such Employee shall be paid for one hundred percent (100%) of time lost from work on the day of the injury as a result of the injury if either the Employee returns to work that day and works the balance of his shift or the injury occurs after the Employee’s lunch break and requires immediate outside medical attention (that is, attendance at a doctor’s office or hospital).
ARTICLE 15 - BEREAVEMENT
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 25 -
15.01	In the event of the death of an immediate relative (father, mother, sister, brother, spouse or common-law spouse, son or daughter) of a regular Employee on the active payroll, the Employee shall be entitled to three (3) days' bereavement leave with pay. The leave shall normally commence no later than the day after the death and shall continue for a total period of three (3) consecutive regular working days, but a request to vary from this norm will not be unreasonably refused where there are special circumstances related to the death (for example, memorial service) and the Employee makes the request shortly after the death before taking all three (3) days' leave.
15.02	When it is necessary for a regular Employee on the active payroll to be absent on a regular working day to arrange for and/or attend the funeral of their mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparent or grandchild, the Employee is entitled to be absent the day before, the day of and the day after the funeral. For each of these, if they are regular working days, he shall be paid his regular straight time rate.
ARTICLE 16 - PENSION
16.01	Normal retirement age shall be 65.
16.02	The Company agrees to contribute the following amounts to a pension plan or retirement fund designated in writing by the Union for all hours paid to each Full-Time Employee, and for all hours worked by each Floater, in all cases up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week:
Effective September 18, 2001: 500 per hour;
Effective the start of the first pay period after January 1, 2002: 600 per hour.
ARTICLE 17 - SENIORITY
17.01	The Company shall maintain a plant seniority list and an individual departmental seniority list which shall be posted every six (6) months, with an update as required. Seniority lists shall be put under plexiglass and permanently displayed on the bulletin board.
17.02	Employees will be regarded as probationary Employees when hired and shall have no seniority under this contract until after sixty (60) calendar days of hire, or thirty (30) working shifts, whichever is longer (not including any time as an Extra).
The Employee's plant seniority date will be the date of hire, as a Full-Time Employee or a
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 26 -
Floater, but excluding time as an Extra before being employed as a Full-Time Employee or Floater (subject to the credit provided in Article 24.08 for time worked as an Extra) and also excluding all time on layoff in excess of seven (7) calendar days after the signing of this Agreement if the Employee advises the Company that he is not available to work as a Floater or Extra.
The Employee's department seniority date will be the date of commencement of the last uninterrupted period of employment in that department.
When two (2) or more Employees have identical dates of hire, the Employee with the greater number of working days in the probationary period will be given preference on the seniority list.
17.03	Probationary Employees, if laid off and later rehired in a six (6) month period will receive credit for past service.
17.04	(a) Departmental seniority will be applied in determining preference in vacations, overtime, promotions, and shifts. Shift preference in the department can only be exercised by an Employee twice in a given calendar year. Where department functions are transferred from one department to another, the job function will be deemed a function of the original department in determining Employees' allocation of vacation and overtime.
(b)	Shift preference may be altered by the Company due to a lack of skill and ability.
When this takes place, the Company shall advise the Union through the Labour Management Committee and reasonable steps will be taken to alleviate the situation through the use of the special training hours. (The Union may also advise the Labour Management Committee of situations where this could reasonably be expected to become a problem so that such information can be considered by the Company in regard to the use of the special training hours.)
17.05	(a) Where it is necessary to lay-off Employees for a period in excess of three (3) working hours per day, plant seniority will be the guiding factor, so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of Employees who are able, with a familiarization period, and willing to do the work which is available.
(b) In the event of a temporary lay-off (temporary lay-off is defined as three (3) hours a day or less), the affected qualified Employee may choose to displace a junior Employee subject to the following:
1.	There is no entitlement to bump for one (1) hour or less, provided that this cannot be applied to an individual Employee more than twice a week.
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 27 -
2.	The onus is on the Employee, at the time of being advised that his shift is ending early, to notify the Company immediately that he wishes to exercise his bumping rights and whether or not such a request has already been refused twice that week.
3.	The most junior Employee exercising bumping rights is matched up with the most junior Employee then working in the Plant. A junior Employee being temporarily laid off can either accept the job of the most junior Employee still working in the Plant, if he has the ability to do that job (and if he cannot, he has no other options on the day shift), or bump the most junior Employee on the night shift, if he has the ability to do that job. In either case, if the junior Employee being temporarily laid off does not have the ability to do the job of the junior Employee with whom he is matched, there are no other options for the Employee being temporarily laid off. A similar procedure would be followed for the second most junior Employee who is temporarily laid off and who is exercising his bumping rights. He will be matched with the most junior Employee still working in the Plant at the time or the most junior Employee scheduled to work on the night shift - (the Employees with whom he is matched may be more junior Employees who have already exercised their bumping rights).
0946569 04.DOC
4.	Ability to do the job means that the Employee must be able to immediately operate at line speed or R.E.
5.	There will be no "chain bumping". That is, an Employee who was bumped cannot bump someone else.
6.	If there are more hours left in the shift of the junior Employee being bumped than in the overlapping shift of the more senior Employee exercising bumping rights, the more senior Employee has to wait until the last part of the junior Employee's shift. For example, if the more senior Employee has lost two (2) hours from his regular shift, he must wait until the last two (2) hours of the junior Employee's scheduled shift. If an Employee is bumping into an evening shift which has not yet started and the Company is able to contact the junior Employee scheduled for the evening shift before he arrives at work, the senior Employee can pick up his hours at the start of the scheduled shift of the junior Employee working on the evening shift and the start time for the junior Employee will be adjusted accordingly. (The two (2) weeks' notice of change of schedule would not be applicable since the change was not initiated by the Company.)
7.	An Employee cannot bump another Employee so as to deprive the junior Employee of an opportunity to work at least four (4) hours (the minimum under Article 11.09). Similarly, an Employee who works more than four (4) hours in total, including time worked as a result of bumping, is not entitled to any benefits under Article 11.09.
8.	If an Employee bumps into the Packaging Room, the Employee will not be paid for the required clean up time.
9.	Employees in the Maintenance Department and the Power House are excluded from this bumping procedure.
17.06	An Employee's seniority rights shall be forfeited for any of the following reasons:
(a)	if he voluntarily resigns or leaves the services of the Company;
(b)	if he is discharged for cause;
(c)	if he is absent without leave for three (3) consecutive working days without first securing permission from the Company, unless the Company is satisfied that the Employee has a reasonable excuse;
0946569 04.DOC
(d)	if he is continuously out of employment with the Company for a period of twelve (12) months; provided however, if an Employee is on leave for medical reasons, he shall retain seniority for a period equivalent to his length of service at the time of leave up to a maximum of four (4) years.
17.07	Employees promoted out of the bargaining unit shall retain their bargaining unit seniority until ninety (90) days following the date of promotion, following which their seniority rights shall cease.
17.08	Vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be filled within fourteen (14) days of the vacancy arising by promotion within each department on the basis of the Employee's seniority within that department and the ability to perform the job with normal training.
17.09	Promotions within the department will be as follows:
(a)	follow the steps up the line of progression as per departmental seniority;
(b)	if, for some reason, the senior Employee refuses the promotion, the next senior Employee will pass him in departmental seniority for promotional purposes only.
17.10 (a)	If the vacancy cannot be filled within the department, within twenty-eight (28) days of the vacancy arising the Company shall post notice of the vacancy and the notice shall remain posted for five (5) working days. Those applications received within the posting period will be considered and the vacancy will be filled in accordance with plant seniority. The name of the successful applicant will be posted within ten (10) days of the original posting. The Company reserves the right to delay an Employee starting in a new position until a replacement for the Employee has been trained.
(b) Where a senior Employee refuses training or after the training is not able to do the job, the next eligible Employee will be offered the training.
17.11	If an Employee who is entitled to fill a vacancy under Article 17.08 or who is the successful applicant under the posting procedure in Article 17.10 is on a leave of absence or absent when they would otherwise be filling the vacancy, the position will be held for the Employee only up to a period of three (3) months, provided that the position will be held longer if the Employee satisfies the Company that there is a reasonable expectation of return, but the position will not be held open for more than twelve (12) months, subject to any statutory duty to accommodate.
17.12	An Employee who has been the successful applicant for a posted vacancy shall not be eligible to apply for another posted vacancy for a period of twelve (12) months, except where:
(a) the position held by the Employee (that is, the position for which the Employee was
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 30 -
previously the successful applicant) is an entry level position; or (b) the posted vacancy for which the Employee wishes to apply is a higher rated job.
17.13	The vacancy may be filled on a temporary basis, normally by a bargaining unit Employee, provided a qualified Employee is available, until such time as the job posting sequence has been completed. No Employee will accumulate departmental seniority until such time as he is established in a home department.
17.14	Ability to do the job means the ability to perform the requirements of the job following an appropriate familiarization period or following an appropriate training and trial period. The Company shall not curtail the training or trial period without reasonable cause before it has run its normal course. In the event the Employee is not able or does not wish to complete the trial period, or cannot satisfactorily perform the job within the training period or trial period, he shall be returned to his former position at its wage or salary rate without loss of seniority.
17.15	Where an Employee is not able, through illness or injury or other reasons, to perform his normal duties, the Company and the Union may arrange suitable alternate employment.
The following positions (subject to change by mutual agreement) have been identified as light duty jobs to be used for rehabilitation purposes:
These jobs will be red-circled for light duty exclusively (i.e. any incumbents in these positions will not be affected, but when the positions become vacant, the positions will not be posted). The Company shall utilize these jobs for temporary assignment to Employees injured at work and requiring light duty work while recovering, as evidenced by a medical opinion. Employees suffering from illness or a non-compensable injury, and requiring light duty work while recovering, as evidenced by a medical opinion, will also be considered for light duty jobs. After a reasonable period of rehabilitation, Employees will be expected to return to their original jobs. Employees remaining in light duty jobs in excess of six (6) months, will be reviewed by the Company, in consultation with the Union, on at least a semi-annual basis.
0946569 04.DOC
Kill Floor -Pork Cut -
Head Table Making Boxes Stamping Loins Railing Hogs Box Feet
Scale Job (not main table, just belly table) Making Boxes
Packaging Room -
- Page 31 -
0946569 04.DOC
17.16	All job applications, pursuant to a job posting, shall be filled out in duplicate, with a copy to be given to the Union.
17.17	New Employees shall not be hired where there are Employees on lay-off able to perform the job.
ARTICLE 18 - TRANSFERS
18.01	The Company will have the right to temporarily transfer, not exceeding six (6) weeks, an Employee from one position to another in order to affect proper and efficient operation of the plant, providing that the rate of no Employee shall be reduced when he is performing work in a classification having a lower rate than his own under these circumstances, or when work is available in his own classification. In temporary transfers from one department to another, the Company will recognize seniority, subject to the requirements of the business and qualifications of the Employee.
18.02	When an Employee is permanently assigned to work in a classification paying a higher rate than his own, he shall be paid the higher rate for such work. When an Employee is temporarily assigned or transferred to work in a classification paying a higher rate than his own, he is not entitled to receive the higher rate until he has consecutively worked one (1) hour in the higher classification; he shall then be paid the higher rate for time worked in the higher classification, including the first hour.
18.03	When an Employee, at his own request, is transferred or assigned to work in a classification paying a lower rate than his own, he shall be paid the lower rate for such work.
18.04	When an Employee is transferred for the purpose of gaining job experience and to qualify for a higher rate, he is not entitled to receive the higher rate until he has acquired the skill to perform the job classifications at line speed.
ARTICLE 19 - ABSENTEEISM
19.01	Absent Employees shall notify the Company at least one-half ('A) hour before the scheduled start of their shift provided the Company makes arrangements to receive the calls.
19.02	In the event of an Employee being absent through illness or injury, the Employee shall give the Superintendent the following notice of his intention to return to work:
(a)	where the Employee has been absent for a period of five (5) working days or more: one (1) working day’s notice; and
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 33 -
(b)	where the Employee has been absent for a period of one (1) month or more: three (3) working days’ notice.
19.03	The Company may, as part of an absenteeism control program, require an Employee to provide a medical certificate provided that the Company will pay for any reasonable charges by the doctor for the certificate for Employees who have less than seven (7) absences (excluding any absences resulting from a court appearance required by subpoena) in the previous calendar year, pro rated based on attendance.
19.04	Employees off work for medical reasons for an extended period are required to maintain regular contact with the Company.
ARTICLE 20 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
20.01	The Company shall grant leave of absence to attend Union conventions, without pay and without loss of seniority, provided that:
(a)	the Company is given at least two (2) weeks' notice, when possible, of the request for leave of absence;
(b)	the leave does not seriously interfere with the business of the Company; and
(c)	not more than three (3) members of the Union are on leave of absence at any one time.
20.02	The Company may grant leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority to any Employee where the Company determines in its discretion, that the leave is for legitimate personal reasons. Leave of absence for cases other than illness and accident will not be granted except under special circumstances.
20.03	The Company may grant leave of absence to an Employee who wishes to apply to work for the Union on a full-time basis - this is to be reviewed from year to year. However, the Employee on such Union leave does not accumulate seniority during the leave.
20.04	When a regular Employee (one who has completed his probationary period) is summoned to jury service, he will be paid his normal daily hours worked multiplied by his regular hourly rate, provided he turns over to the Company, the amount received for each jury service. The Employee will be required to notify the Company immediately upon receiving notice ofjury duty and to report to work on any day he is not required to serve as a juror.
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 34 -
0946569 04.DOC
20.05	The Company shall grant maternity leave and parental leave in accordance with the Labour Standards Code of Nova Scotia.
ARTICLE 21 - SICK LEAVE
21.01	(a) Full-Time Employees and Floaters (not Extras) shall accumulate sick leave at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours for each month of perfect attendance, subject to a maximum accumulation under paragraph (c).
(b)	Perfect attendance includes time off on paid leave (for example, holidays, vacation and bereavement leave) other than sick leave, provided however, in the case of a floating holiday, the Employee must have given the Employer forty-eight (48) hours' notice of his request for the floating holiday. Perfect attendance is also not affected by an authorized leave of less than one (1) week, for example, to attend a doctor's appointment or leave on Union business, provided however in order to be considered authorized leave:
(i)	in the case of health related appointments such as doctor's appointments, dental appointments, appointments for blood tests and x-rays, in order to be considered authorized leave, the Employee must have given the Employer twenty-four (24) hours' notice of the appointment; and
(ii)	in the case of a court appearance as a result of a subpoena, the Employee must have advised the Employer as soon as reasonably possible after being served with the subpoena.
(c)	The maximum amount of sick leave which an Employee may carry forward from one (1) calendar year to the next is sixty (60) hours. An Employee with in excess of sixty (60) hours in his sick leave bank at year end shall receive a lump sum payment based on one hundred percent (100%) of the excess hours. For example, an Employee with sixty-eight (68) hours in the sick leave bank at year end shall receive a lump sum payment of eight (8) hours' pay - one hundred percent (100%) of the eight (8) hours in excess of sixty (60) hours.
21.02	An Employee can only draw on his sick leave bank in blocks of eight (8) hours, provided however:
(a) if an Employee can establish to the Company that his department only worked one-half day, the Employee can draw a block of four (4 ) hours from his sick leave bank; or
(b) if an Employee reports to work and leaves because of sickness during the first two (2)
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 36 -
hours, the Employee can draw a block of hours (round number) from his sick leave bank up to a maximum of the remaining hours in his shift that he would have worked that day had he not been sick.
21.03	The Company will post accumulated sick leave semi-annually (in January and July).
ARTICLE 22 - SEVERANCE PAY ON PLANT CLOSURE
22.01	In the event of a permanent Plant closure, Full-Time Employees and Floaters who have one (1) or more years of service and who are not on layoff at the time of closure will receive severance pay as follows:
1 to 5 years -	3 weeks' pay
6 to 10 years -	4 weeks' pay
11 to 15 years -	5 weeks' pay
16 to 20 years -	6 weeks' pay
over 20 years -	7 weeks' pay
This Article shall be null and void if a Plant closure results from a labour dispute, explosion, loss of utilities, machine breakdown, acts of God or other acts of a similar nature which are beyond the control of the Company.
ARTICLE 23 - FLOATERS
23.01	Floaters are those Employees (not "Full-Time Employees") who are not permanently assigned to any department, but work throughout the Plant on an as required basis.
23.02	The Company may maintain a group of up to and including forty (40) Employees as Floaters. If the Employer reduces the number of Floaters, Employees will fall back from Floaters to Extras based on plant seniority.
23.03	The Company will make reasonable efforts to give Floaters an opportunity to work five (5) shifts per week before using Extras. However, it is recognized that there may be situations where an Extra works seven (7) or eight (8) hours a shift while a Floater on that particular day only works a six (6) hour shift. An Extra may work in a week before a Floater works five (5) shifts, but the Company's intention will be that by the end of the week, the Floater will have had an opportunity to work five (5) shifts.
23.04	Floaters are not covered by the following provisions of the Agreement:
(a)	Re vacations: 8.01(4)(b), 8.02, and 8.08; Floaters shall be scheduled for vacation as
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 37 -
follows:
(1)	Each Floater shall indicate his first, second and third choice for the first two (2)
weeks of his vacation entitlement by the 15th day of March. The Company shall post the vacation schedule by the 15th day of April. The scheduling of the balance of vacation entitlement shall take place not later than the 31st day of May, with preferences submitted no later than the 1st day of May.
(ii)	Preference in scheduling vacations will be on the basis of plant seniority, provided however Floaters who do not submit their requests for vacation by the required date shall lose their opportunity to receive preference over other Floaters who have less plant seniority, but who submit their requests by the required date.
(iii)	Vacations for Floaters will be scheduled based on operational requirements. By way of example, it is understood that from the first day of June until the last day of September and at Christmas time (mid-December until the end of the first full week in January), only two (2) Floaters shall be scheduled for vacation provided that no Floaters shall be scheduled for vacation the week before or the week after the Canada Day holiday or the Labour Day holiday.
(b)	Hours of work: 11.01 (a) and (b);
(c)	Article 17 (Seniority) - Floaters have plant seniority and therefore are covered by 17.01, 17.02, 17.06, 17.07, 17.10, 17.16 and 17.17 inclusive except any parts of those Articles relating to departmental seniority - since Floaters do not have departmental seniority.
Floaters working on the same shift will be laid off in reverse order of plant seniority provided that Floaters remaining at work have the skill and ability to immediately do the work assigned to Floaters (without a familiarization, training or trial period), but Floaters are not entitled to bump or displace a junior Employee.
(d)	Article 18 (Transfers): This Article is not applicable to Floaters who are paid at the rate of the classification in which they are working from time to time, provided however
18.04	(transfer for the purpose of gaining job experience) would apply to Floaters.
ARTICLE 24 - EXTRAS
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 38 -
24.01 "Extras" are persons who are employed for up to twenty-four (24) hours per week, provided however this restriction does not apply during the period April 15 to December 31. Extras may only be used as follows:
(a)
(b)
(A)	if a new product line operates for three (3) continuous months for twenty-four (24) hours per week, the Company will operate the line with FullTime Employees;
(B)	if two (2) new product lines are operating for three (3) continuous months for a total of forty (40) hours or more a week, hours of work on the two (2) lines will be combined to create Full-Time employment;
(C)	on a quarterly basis, the Company will review with the Union new product demand and the possibility of creating Full-Time employment in accordance with (A) and (B) above. Any disagreement on combining new product lines to provide Full-Time employment will be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
To relieve Full-Time Employees, Floaters or Extras who are absent from work provided any Full-Time Employee on layoff has been given the opportunity to work. When the Company is advised that an Employee will be absent prior to the day of absence, any relieving Extra may be used on the day of absence anywhere in the Plant (regardless of department or shift), subject to the 25% requirement under Article 24.02. If a Full-Time Employee notifies the Company on the day of absence (at least one-half hour before the scheduled start of the shift under Article 19.01), then any relieving Extra will be assigned to the department of the Full-Time Employee.
The Company will provide the Union with a daily absenteeism report and a list of the Extras used as relief.
To operate new product lines on a trial basis, subject to the following:
(i)	any Full-Time Employee on layoff has been given the opportunity to work;
(ii)	"Trial Basis" referred to above will be a maximum of one (1) year for each new product line. At the conclusion of the year, the line will be operated by Full-Time Employees or discontinued.
(iii)	During the one (1) year trial period;
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 39 -
(iv)	Upon the creation of Full-Time employment referred to in this paragraph (b), the job will be posted in accordance with Article 17.
(c)	To work when no Full-Time Employees are available to work overtime under Article 11.08. For example:
(i)	if any extra shift is scheduled on the weekend and Full-Time Employees are not available to work overtime, Extras may be used;
(ii)	if an Extra is working in relief and additional work is required at the end of the shift, the Extra may only work the additional time if Full-Time Employees are not available.
If any Full-Time Employee is laid off, he shall advise the Company whether or not he wishes to work as an Extra. If he does not wish to do so, he will be recalled only when Full-Time work becomes available and will be considered to have been given an opportunity to work under (a) and (b) above.
24.02	The number of Extras shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of all Full-Time Employees. For example, if there are two hundred and sixty (260) Full-Time Employees, the maximum number of Extras is sixty-five (65).
24.03	Full-Time Employees for the purpose of Article 24.02 include Floaters, probationary Employees and Students.
24.04	Extras are not entitled to the provisions of Articles 8, 9, 11, 12, 15, 17, 18 and 20 to 22 inclusive of this Agreement, except that:
(a)	Extras will be eligible for public holiday pay for the number of hours they would have worked on the following holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Canada Day Labour Day Christmas Day
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 40 -
provided they work:
(1)	their scheduled day before and after the holiday, and
(ii) at least twelve (12) of the thirty (30) calendar days preceding the holiday.
(b)	Extras with one (1) year's service or more will be entitled to two (2) weeks' vacation with vacation pay of four percent (4%) of earnings during the previous calendar year;
(c)	Extras shall be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular rates for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any day or in excess of forty (40) hours in a week;
(d)	Extras shall be entitled to the provisions of Article 11.04 plus one-half ('A) hour unpaid lunch break.
(e)	Extras shall be covered by Article 11.05 (re eight (8) hours between shifts).
24.05	Extras do not have either plant seniority or departmental seniority. However, the Company will keep a list of Extras by hours worked after the signing of the 1994-98 Collective Agreement (February 24, 1995). The list will be updated monthly and also at the time of any vacancy in the group of Floaters.
24.06	A vacancy as a Floater will be offered to the Extra who has the most total hours worked as recorded under Article 24.05.
24.07	The Employer shall meet with an Extra to discuss the Extra's performance after approximately four (4) months of employment and then approximately every six (6) months.
24.08	Full-Time Employees or Floaters who have worked as an Extra will receive credit for time worked as an Extra for the purposes of both plant seniority and service for calculating vacation. The credit will be calculated on the basis of fifty percent (50%) of hours worked as an Extra since February 24, 1995 (the date of signing of the 1994-98 Collective Agreement), prorated based on 2080 hours representing one year; for example, an Extra who becomes a Floater or Full-Time Employee and who has worked 2080 hours as an Extra after February 24, 1995 will receive credit of 1040 hours, that is, twenty-six (26) weeks or six (6) months.
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 41 -
ARTICLE 25 - TRADES APPRENTICES
25.01	(a) Apprentices hired under an apprenticeship program established in accordance with the
Apprenticeship and Trades Qualifications Act (Nova Scotia) will be paid a percentage of the Class 2 wage rate in the Maintenance Department.
(b) Apprentices in the following trades will be paid no less than the percentages established under the Trades Regulations which at present are as follows:
(i)	Industrial Electrician Trade:
for the first six months, 50% of the journeyman's rate; for the second six months, 55% of the journeyman’s rate; for the third six months, 60% of the journeyman’s rate; for the fourth six months, 65% of the journeyman’s rate; for the fifth six months, 75% of the journeyman’s rate; for the sixth six months, 80% of the journeyman’s rate; for the seventh six months, 85% of the journeyman’s rate; for the eighth six months, 90% of the journeyman’s rate.
(ii) Industrial Mechanic Trade (Millwright):
for the first six months, 55% of the journeyman's rate; for the second six months, 60% of the journeyman’s rate; for the third six months, 65% of the journeyman’s rate; for the fourth six months, 70% of the journeyman’s rate; for the fifth six months, 80% of the journeyman’s rate; for the sixth six months, 85% of the journeyman’s rate; for the seventh six months, 90% of the journeyman’s rate; for the eighth six months, 95% of the journeyman’s rate
(iii)	Plumbing Trade:
for the first six months, 45% of the journeyman's rate; for the second six months, 50% of the journeyman’s rate; for the third six months, 55% of the journeyman’s rate; for the fourth six months, 60% of the journeyman’s rate;
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 42 -
for the fifth six months, 65% of the journeyman’s rate; for the sixth six months, 70% of the journeyman’s rate; for the seventh six months, 75% of the journeyman’s rate; for the eighth six months, 80% of the journeyman’s rate.
(iv)	where the term "six months" is used above, it means the period required to satisfactorily complete six months (1,000) hours of apprenticeship training.
(c)	Apprentices in the welding trade shall be paid at least the following rates:
on commencement of apprenticeship, 50% of the journeyman’s rate Class "C" Welder, 85% of the journeyman’s rate Class "B" Welder, 100% of the journeyman’s rate
(d)	The journeyman’s rate referred to above is the Class 2 rate for the Maintenance Department.
25.03	Apprentices shall not have either plant seniority or departmental seniority.
25.04	(a) The Company will monitor each Apprentice’s progress and will meet with an Apprentice after each six (6) month wage step; in trades where there are not six (6) month wage steps, the meeting shall be held approximately every six (6) months.
(b) An Apprentice who does not (i) pass the examinations which he is required to take as part of his apprenticeship program or (ii) does not attend the prescribed yearly classes for two (2) years in succession, may be released from employment and such release will be considered to be for just cause.
25.05	Apprentices will be permitted to apply for posted vacancies during the last three (3) months of their apprenticeship. An apprentice who has not obtained or accepted a regular position by their graduation date will be released from employment.
25.06	Apprentices are not covered by the following provisions of this Agreement:
(a)	re vacations: 8.01(4)(b), 8.02, 8.07 and 8.08;
(b)	hours of work: 11.01;
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 43 -
(c)	12.01 (holidays): Apprentices are entitled only to ten (10) holidays, that is, all holidays listed in 12.01 except the Floating Holidays, provided they have worked:
(i)	their scheduled day before and their scheduled day after the holiday, and
(ii)	for at least twelve (12) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday.
(d)	Article 16 (Pension).
(e)	Article 17 (Seniority).
(f)	Article 18 (Transfers).
(g)	Article 21 (Sick Leave); and
(h)	Article 22 (Severance Pay on Plant Closure).
ARTICLE 26 - LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
26.01	The Company and the Union agree to establish a Labour Management Committee composed of two (2) representatives of the Union (the Union President and the Chief Steward) and two (2) representatives of the Company (the Plant Superintendent and one (1) other designated by the President). The Labour Management Committee shall meet at least once every month at a time and place to be decided by the Committee, to discuss all proper subjects of general interest to both the Union and the Company, including health, safety and other matters. (In the absence of a regular member of the Labour Management Committee, an alternate designated by the Company or the Union, as the case may be, may attend the meeting.) But the Labour Management Committee is not intended to, nor shall it replace the Grievance Procedure, and all matters properly dealt with by the Grievance Procedure and not by the Labour Management Committee. The Union shall designate a Chairman of its Safety Committee who, when he has cause for concern, shall sit with the Labour Management Committee, which shall deal with questions of safety.
26.02	(a) The Company shall establish a pool of hours for special training. The number of hours in the training pool shall be established on January 1 of each year based on four (4) hours for each active Full-Time Employee as of that date. The training pool shall be used for special training of Employees - for example, to increase the flexibility of the work force.
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 44 -
(b) In early December of each year, the Company will post a notice inviting Employees to apply for training in a bargaining unit position other than their own and not related to training as a result of a job posting (such training to be referred to as “supplemental training”). Any Employee may apply for supplemental training in one position only. Supplemental training under this Article will normally be done between January 1 and March 31.
If the Company decides to select an Employee(s) for supplemental training for a position, it will consider:
(i)	the seniority of the Employees who have applied for training in the position with preference to Employees with more departmental seniority in the department for the position and then by plant seniority; and also
(ii)	the willingness of those Employees to work overtime as indicated by their history of working overtime,
provided however:
(iii)	an Employee will not be selected for supplemental training for a position where, in the opinion of the Company the Employee has previously demonstrated that he is unsatisfactory for the position or the Employee is already satisfactory to work overtime in the position; and
(iv)	the selection of an Employee will be subject to operational requirements, including the need to have the Employee work in their regular position.
During the time an Employee is receiving supplemental training, the Employee will be paid his regular rate of pay.
(c) The Company will provide periodic updates to the Union through the Labour Management Committee in regard to the use of the special training hours.
ARTICLE 27 - GENERAL
27.01	The Company will designate one (1) Bulletin Board for the use of the Union at a conspicuous place. Before posting, copies of bulletins and notices will be submitted to management for approval, approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 45 -
27.02	Tool allowances will be paid annually as follows:
(a)	Maintenance Men in Class 1, 2 and 3: One Hundred Seventy-Five Dollars ($175.00); effective January 1, 2002, this allowance will increase to Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) and effective January 1, 2003, this allowance will increase to Two Hundred and Twenty-Five Dollars ($225.00)
(b)	Powerhouse Operators: Seventy-Five Dollars ($75.00); effective January 1, 2002, this allowance will increase to One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) and effective January 1, 2003, this allowance will increase to One Hundred and Twenty-Five Dollars ($125.00).
This amount is to be spent to replace broken, lost and damaged tools. Any additional expenditure to be approved by the Company, and the Company shall pay seventy percent (70%) of the additional approved expenditure.
27.03	(a) Freezer coats, quilted liners, coveralls and gloves, as required for work in certain departments of the Plant, will be supplied to Employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and must be returned for new issue or upon separation.
(b) The Company, on request, shall provide quilted liners to Full-Time Employees working in the Pork Cut Department or the Conversion Department on a fifty-fifty (50/50) cost sharing basis.
ARTICLE 28 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
28.01	This Agreement is to remain in full force and effect for a period of four (4) years from September 18, 2001 and further negotiations will be subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia.
28.02	This Agreement will be automatically renewed from year to year unless one party gives to the other notice in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia.
28.03	Only the wage rates set out in Schedule "B" are retroactive and only persons who are Employees on the date of ratification of this Agreement are entitled to retroactive pay.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed and signed this Agreement the 17th day of December, 2001
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 46 -
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITEDATLANTIC MEATPACKERS UNION
0946569 04.DOC
SCHEDULE”A”
CHECK-OFF DUES DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION
I,______________________________, being an employee of Larsen Packers Limited at its Plant at
Berwick, Nova Scotia, hereby irrevocably authorize and direct Larsen Packers Limited to deduct initially initiation dues and thereafter to deduct weekly on my first or any pay day of each calendar month from my earnings accumulated to my credit, my monthly dues, together with any special assessment* levied in accordance with the Constitution and By-Laws of the Atlantic Meatpackers Union. I further authorize Larsen Packers Limited to pay the amounts so deducted to the Treasurer of the Atlantic Meatpackers Union, whose receipt therefore shall constitute good and sufficient discharge to Larsen Packers Limited for the amounts so deducted from my earnings. A letter from the Treasurer of the Union to the Company shall be conclusive evidence of the amount of dues and the special assessment* authorized.
NAME____________________________________________________________
ADDRESS
NUMBER ____________________ SIGNATURE________________________
WITNESS______________________________________________________
Dated at Berwick, Nova Scotia this_day of_______________, 200
1.	* Special assessment includes initiation fees.
0946569 04.DOC
SCHEDULE"B" WAGE RATES
Starting Rate - New Employees shall start at 85% of the base rate. This rate will be increased 5% each three (3) months until the rate is reached. Starting Rate for experienced New Employees is 120 an hour less than classification and an increase of 60 every three (3) months until classification rate is reached.
Extras - Extras shall be paid at 85% of the base rate.
The base rate will be as follows:
September 18/01	$12.40
September 18/02	$12.60
September 18/03	$12.85
September 18/04	$13.10
Students, that is Employees hired between May and August, inclusive, shall be paid at 70% of the base rate and are not considered to be an Employee as defined in Article 1.01(c). The Company will deduct an amount equivalent to Union Dues from the Student's wages and remit the deduction to the Union.
1.	MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Valid certificate holder in two of the following trades (Electrician, Plumber, Industrial Mechanic/Millwright).
Class 2 - Valid Certificate Holder (Electrician, Welder, Industrial Mechanic and Refrigeration Mechanic); Department Mechanic (able to service and repair all machines in department)
Class 3 - Welder, Electrician, Refrigeration Technician, Pipefitter
Class 4 - General Maintenance
Class 5 - General Help
Sept. 18/01	Sept. 18/02	Sept. 18/03	Sept. 18/04
$17.25*	19.05	19.30	19.55
$15.83*	17.63	17.88	18.13
$15.15*	16.95	17.20	17.45
$14.60	14.80	15.05	15.30
$12.40	12.60	12.85	13.10
* Note re Class 1-3 wage rates above in Maintenance Department: the wage rates shown for September 18/01 will be increased by $1.60 effective the date of signing of this Agreement so the rates will become $18.85 (Class 1), $17.43 (Class 2) and $16.75 (Class 3).
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 49 -
Sept. 18/01 Sept. 18/02 Sept. 18/03 Sept. 18/04
2.	POWERHOUSE DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Valid 3rd class Stationary Engineer & Refrigeration Mechanics Certificate	$16.33	16.53	16.78	17.03
Class 2 - Valid 3rd class Stationary Engineer Certificate	$15.83	16.03	16.28	16.53
Class 3 - 3rd class trainee (holding valid 4th class certificate), Relief Operator 3rd class certificate, while performing duties other than Shift Engineer.	$15.48	15.68	15.93	16.18
3.	SLAUGHTER
Class 1 - Able to do all jobs on kill line at line speed	$15.31	15.51	15.76	16.01
Class 2 - Able to do at least three jobs in Group A at line speed	$15.11	15.31	15.56	15.81
Class 3 -	$14.93	15.13	15.38	15.63
Group A - Scraper, Jowl Trimmer,
Head Skinner, Brisket Cutter, Bunger, Eviscerator, Hog Splitter, Rail Trimmer, Sticker, Trimmer, Unjoint Heads
Group B: Scald Tank Operator, Shackler, Gammer, Livestock Receiver, Scaleman, Leaf Lard Puller, Head Boner, Offals, Front Feet
Class 4 - Livestock Driver, Torchman, Stamper	$13.58	13.78	14.03	14.28
Class 5 - General Help	$12.40	12.60	12.85	13.10
0946569 04.DOC
Sept. 18/01 Sept. 18/02 Sept. 18/03 Sept. 18/04
4. PORK CUT DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Able to do all jobs at line speed	$15.31	15.51	15.76	16.01
Class 2 - Able to do a combination of three jobs in Group A of Class 3 at line speed	$15.11	15.31	15.56	15.81
Class 3 - Group A - Loin Breaker, Loin Puller Operator, Belly Ribber, Butt Boner, Shoulder Trimmer,	$14.93	15.13	15.38	15.63
Group B - Shoulder Saw, Ham Saw, Loin Trimmer, Belly Trimmer, Ham Trimmer, Rind Machine				
Class 4 - Scaleman (Weigh and Strap)	$13.58	13.78	14.03	14.28
Class 5 - Hog Pusher, Hog Weigher, Bellie Rind, Back Rind and Back Fat, Wrappers, Piling Off, Sorter, Box Assembly, Hauling	$12.46	12.66	12.91	13.16
Class 6 - General help	$12.40	12.60	12.85	13.10
5. CONVERSION DEPARTMENT				
Class 1 - Skilled knifeman able to do all cuts in pork conversion at line speed	$15.15	15.35	15.60	15.85
Class 2 - Ham Boner, Loin Boner, Shoulder Boner	$15.03	15.23	15.48	15.73
Class 3 - Service Person (Note: this classification is effective only on signing of this Agreement)	$13.50	13.70	13.95	14.20
Class 4 - General Help	$12.40	12.60	12.85	13.10
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 51 -
6.	FRESH SAUSAGE DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Batcher Class 2 - Cutter/Stuffer
Class 3 - Weigh/Pile/Gas Flush
-	Scoop Sausage
Class 4 - Inventory Service
-	Weigh/Pile
Class 5 - General Help
7.	MANUFACTURING DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Batcher/Grinder/Blender Class 2 - Stuffer
Class 3 - Scaleman, Head Cheese Class 4 - Hanger Class 5 - General Help
8.	CURING DEPARTMENT
Class 1 - Smoker Operator, Edible Rendering
Class 2 - Formulating
Class 3 - Stuffer, Pump Operator, Scaleman
Class 4 - Hanger, Clipper
Sept. 18/01	Sept. 18/02	Sept. 18/03	Sept. 18/04
$15.03	15.23	15.48	15.73
$14.77	14.97	15.22	15.47
$13.56	13.76	14.01	14.26
$13.49	13.69	13.94	14.19
$12.40	12.60	12.85	13.10
$15.03	15.23	15.48	15.73
$14.77	14.97	15.22	15.47
$14.56	14.76	15.01	15.26
$13.49	13.69	13.94	14.19
$12.40	12.60	12.85	13.10
$15.03	15.23	15.48	15.73
$14.94	15.14	15.39	15.64
$14.61	14.81	15.06	15.31
$13.51	13.71	13.96	14.21
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 52 -
Class 5 - General Help	$12.40	12.60	12.85	13.10
	Sept. 18/01	Sept. 18/02	Sept. 18/03	Sept. 18/04
9. DAY SHIPPING AND FREEZER DEPT.				
Class 1 - Shipper, Freezer Operator, Booker, Inventory Control	$15.09	15.29	15.54	15.79
Class 2 - Stacker	$14.98	15.18	15.43	15.68
Class 3 - Picker, Freezer Helper	$13.78	13.98	14.23	14.48
Class 4 - General Help	$12.40	12.60	12.85	13.10
10. NIGHT SHIPPING AND FREEZER DEPT.				
Class 1 - Freezer Operator, Booker, Inventory Control	$15.09	15.29	15.54	15.79
Class 2 - Stacker	$14.98	15.18	15.43	15.68
Class 3 - Picker, Freezer Helper	$13.78	13.98	14.23	14.48
Class 4 - General Help	$12.40	12.60	12.85	13.10
11. PACKAGING DEPARTMENT	$13.53	13.73	13.98	14.23
12. CRYOVAC DEPARTMENT				
Class 1 - Pump Operator*	$13.78	13.98	14.23	14.48
Class 2 - Other Employees in Dept.	$13.50	13.70	13.95	14.20
* Notes:
• The Class 1 position in this department is effective only on signing of this Agreement.
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 53 -
• The Class 1 rate in this department is determined by function, that is, an Employee will be paid the Class 1 rate only for the time he is working in that function and only when he has worked in the function continuously for one (1) hour or more.
	Sept. 18/01	Sept. 18/02	Sept. 18/03	Sept. 18/04
13. SANITATION DEPARTMENT				
(Clean Up Crew)	$13.40	13.60	13.85	14.10
14. PLANT SERVICES (Box Room)				
Class 1 - Chief Stock Clerk	$14.78	14.98	15.23	15.48
Class 2 - Stock Clerk	$14.58	14.78	15.03	15.28
Class 3 - General Help	$12.40	12.60	12.85	13.10
15. PLANT SERVICES (Day Cleaning)				
Janitor, Laundry Operator, Wash Bay	$13.40	13.60	13.85	14.10
16. PLANT SERVICES (Knife Sharpener)	$14.78	14.98	15.23	15.48
17. PLANT SERVICES (Effluent Control)	$14.60	14.80	15.05	15.30
Note: This department (including the wage rate for the department) is effective only on signing of this Agreement.
0946569 04.DOC
SCHEDULE”C”
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
(Re Certain Wage Rates)
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERS UNION
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
1.	Red-Circle Rates
Mike Dunn and Paul Saunders shall be "red-circled" at the following rates of pay:
September 18, 2001: $16.33 September 18, 2002: $16.53 September 18, 2003: $16.78 September 18, 2004: $17.03
2.	Conversion Department, Class 1
The deletion from the Conversion Department of what was “Group B - Skilled knifeman able to do all cuts in beef conversion at line speed” will not affect the class structure or wage rates of Employees in the Conversion Department, that is, an Employee who was considered Class 1 (“Skilled knifeman able to do all cuts in pork conversion at line speed”) when there was a separate grouping for beef conversion will continue to be considered Class 1 with the elimination of the reference to beef conversion.
3.	New Classifications
The following new classifications and the related wage rates are effective only on signing of this Agreement and are not retroactive:
Conversion Department, Class 3 Cryovac Department, Class 1 Plant Services (Effluent Control)
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 55 -
4.	Maintenance Department - Special Market Adjustment
The Class 1, 2 and 3 wage rates in the Maintenance Department will be increased by a special market adjustment in the amount of $1.60 per hour effective on signing of this Agreement. It is understood that this adjustment will not be retroactive so as to apply to any period prior to the signing of this Agreement. The wage rates shown in Schedule “B” for September 18/02 and subsequent contract years have been increased to reflect this special adjustment.
DATED this 17th day of December, 2001 at Berwick, N.S.
Larsen Packers Limited
Atlantic Meatpackers Union
Witness
0946569 04.DOC
SCHEDULE"D"
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
(Re Lump Sum Payments)
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERS LIMITED
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
The Company agrees to pay a signing bonus in the amount of $200 to all Employees as of the date of ratification of this Agreement (December 13, 2001). All payments are subject to deductions required by law.
DATED this 17th day of December, 2001 at Berwick, N.S.
Larsen Packers Limited
Atlantic Meatpackers Union
Witness
0946569 04.DOC
SCHEDULE"E"
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
(Re Powerhouse)
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERS UNION
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
The following terms and conditions of employment apply in the Powerhouse: 1. Hours of Work
(a)	Powerhouse Operators shall normally work 12 hour shifts. There shall be a four (4) week cycle alternating two (2) consecutive weeks of day shifts (four (4) shifts in one (1) week and three (3) shifts in the other) and two (2) consecutive shifts of night shifts (again with four (4) shifts in one (1) week and three (3) shifts in the other), resulting in an average of forty-two (42) hours per week.
(b)	Night shift: 8 p.m. to 8 a.m.;
Day shift: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
The twenty-four (24) hour day is considered to begin at 8 p.m. of the previous day, for example, the Sunday shift starts at 8 p.m. on Saturday.
(c)	An Operator is entitled to exercise seniority for shift preference twice in a given calendar year in accordance with Article 17.04(a), subject to the Operator giving reasonable advance notice and the change being effective at the start of a four week rotation described in paragraph 1(a) of this Memorandum.
(d)	Operators may trade shifts among themselves provided the arrangement is approved by the Supervisor involved. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, any such arrangement shall not result in additional cost to the Company, either directly (for example, overtime) or indirectly.
(e)	Operators are entitled to four (4) breaks of fifteen (15) minutes during each twelve (12)
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 58 -
hour shift at such times as are consistent with operational efficiency.
(f)	Operators shall not work more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours except in cases of an emergency. If an Operator is absent for his scheduled shift and a Relief Operator is not available, the hours would be offered as follows:
(i)	the shift will be offered to Operators who are not scheduled to work either the shift immediately before or the shift immediately after the absent Operator and if there is more than one such Operator, preference will be based on departmental seniority;
(ii)	the first four (4) hours would be offered to the Operator working the shift immediately before the absent Operator, while the last four (4) hours would be offered to the Operator working the shift immediately after the absent Operator; and
(iii)	hours which are not taken by the regular Operators in accordance with the above may be worked by the Chief Engineer.
2.	Compensation:
(a)	Weekly pay would be based on an average forty-two (42) hours per week at straight time, subject to adjustment for working more or less than the scheduled number of hours. For example, if an Operator was absent for one day, his pay for the week of the absence would be reduced by twelve (12) hours.
(b)	Overtime pay: time and one-half straight time rate of pay for hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours per day or in excess of the number of hours scheduled for that week (thirty-six (36) or forty-eight (48) as the case may be); double straight time rate of pay after an Operator has worked six (6) hours overtime at time and one-half on any day.
(c)	Shift premium: In accordance with Article 11.11(b), Operators working the night shift shall receive a shift premium of 500 per hour; effective September 18, 2002 this premium shall increase to 550 and effective September 18, 2003, it shall increase to 600.
3.	Holidays:
(a)	Operators shall have eight (8) paid holidays. (Since these are twelve (12) hour days, they represent ninety-six (96) hours, which is equivalent to the twelve (12) holidays at eight (8) hours received by other employees).
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 59 -
0946569 04.DOC
Scheduling: Operators must schedule holidays in advance and at such times that a Relief Operator could be available to work the shift. For example, two (2) Operators working back to back shifts could not take the same day off if there was only one (1) Relief Operator because this would require the Relief Operator to work twenty-four (24) consecutive hours.
Preference for scheduling holidays as between two (2) or more Operators will be based on departmental seniority.
Operators are not entitled to holidays under Article 12, but an Operator who works on one of the days listed in Article 12.01 as a fixed holiday shall be paid at time and one half straight time rate of pay for all hours worked on that day. For the purposes of this clause
(d), the holiday is considered to be the 24 hour period beginning at 8:00 p.m. of the day previous to the holiday; for example, if the holiday falls on a Monday, the holiday is considered to run from 8:00 o’clock Sunday evening until 8:00 o’clock Monday evening.
4. Vacations:
(a)	Vacation time: Convert weeks to shifts based on the forty-two (42) hour per week average;
For example:	2 weeks - 7 shifts
3	weeks - 10-1/2 shifts
4	weeks - 14 shifts
(b)	Vacation pay: The greater of the following amounts:
(i)	the appropriate percentage of vacation pay base;
(ii)	a normal shift's pay (twelve (12) hours at the regular hourly rate) for each shift, subject to reduction in accordance with Article 8.01(4)(b).
(c)	Vacation Scheduling:
(i) Operators may be allowed to take vacations other than in blocks of calendar weeks, but normally would not be allowed to take only one (1) or two (2) vacation days. (Single days off can normally be obtained through scheduling of holidays.)
(b)
(c)
(d)
0946569 04.DOC
- Page 61 -
(ii)	Vacation shall be scheduled during the period March through May in accordance
with Article 8.02.
5.	Bereavement Leave:
Operators shall be entitled to two (2) days of bereavement leave with pay (two (2) twelve (12)
hour shifts being equivalent to the three (3) days referred to in Article 15.01).
6.	Sick Leave:
Operators can only draw on their sick leave bank in blocks of twelve (12) hours.
7.	Acting Chief Engineer
The Chief Engineer may designate one of the Operators as Acting Chief Engineer for any period
of time when the Chief Engineer is away from the plant for more than seventy-two (72) hours.
8.	Relief Operator(s):
(a)	The Company will appoint at least one (1) Relief Operator;
(b)	All holidays and vacations of regular Operators will be scheduled so that the shifts can be covered by a Relief Operator(s);
(c)	A Relief Operator is expected to be available to relieve a regular Operator who is absent, including absences for such matters as illness or injury where the Company receives very little, if any, advance notice of the absence. In such cases, it will be impossible for the Company to give the Relief Operator the two weeks' notice of change of schedule normally required under Article 11.01(b). That notice is therefore not required in such cases, but the Company is required to give the Relief Operator as much notice as reasonably possible and at least four (4) hours' notice.
(d)	A Relief Operator shall work in the Powerhouse at straight time rates for up to twelve (12) hours a day and up to forty-eight (48) hour per week, or bank the hours in excess of eight (8) hours a day or forty (40) hours per week to be taken as time off.
0946569 04.DOC
DATED this 17th day of December, 2001 at Berwick N.S.
Larsen Packers Limited
Atlantic Meatpackers Union
Witness
0946569 04.DOC
SCHEDULE “F”
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
(Re “RCA” Employees)
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERS UNION
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
Work in the loading dock area is presently done by “RCA” employees (two loaders and one shunter), but it is agreed that if, within six months of the signing of this Agreement, this work is not contracted out as part of a new trucking contract, then:
1.	The work which is presently done by the RCA employees will become bargaining unit work in the Night Shipping Department.
2.	To the extent that, on expiry of the six months, those persons working in the loading dock area are working the number of hours which are approximately equivalent to Full-Time Employees, they will be “grandfathered” into the new bargaining unit positions with their plant seniority and departmental seniority being the date of signing of this Agreement, with relative ranking to be determined by length of service in their positions. To the extent that, on expiry of the six months, those persons are working less than approximately the number of hours which are equivalent to Full-Time Employees, they will be given an opportunity to work as Extras.
3.	If the work which is presently done by the RCA employees is not contracted out within six months of signing of this Agreement, but if the Company subsequently contracts out for trucking, the functions now being done by RCA employees may be contracted out as part of the trucking contract. Accordingly, the last sentence of Article 5.05 (contracting out) will be amended by adding the following language in regard to the loading dock:
“This Article 5.05 does not restrict the Company in regard to installation or construction work or in regard to loading and related functions in the Night Shipping Department which are contracted out as part of a trucking contract.”
0946569 04.DOC
DATED this 17th day of December, 2001 at Berwick N.S.
Larsen Packers Limited
Atlantic Meatpackers Union
Witness
0946569 04.DOC
SCHEDULE “G”
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
(re Various Company Commitments)
This is to confirm that during negotiation of this Agreement, the Company made the following
commitments:
1.	Re Group Insurance Benefits (Article 9.01): If, as a result of the Union’s investigation of alternative group insurance benefit plans, the Union would prefer to have Employees covered by a benefit plan other than the plan designated by the Union on signing of this Collective Agreement, the Company would participate in the new plan, but that the Company’s participation would be limited to its responsibilities under 9.01(b), that is, payment of its share of the premiums.
2.	Re Provision of Clothing (Article 27.03): In regard to the clothing supplied to Employees under Article 27.03, the Company committed to review these clothing provisions and then to discuss the result of its review at a meeting of the Labour Management Committee.
3 Re Time Display in Cafeteria and Smoking Room: The Company agreed that as soon as
reasonably practical after the signing of this Agreement, it will replace the clocks in the cafeteria and smoking room with digital displays which are linked to the same computer system to which the scanners are linked.
4.	Employee Lockers: At the time of the next major expansion of the plant, the Company will meet with Union representatives to discuss the feasibility of providing Employee lockers, with discussion to include whether the lockers can be located in an area that is reasonably close to the work stations of most Employees and also the issue of biosecurity.
DATED this 17th day of December, 2001 at Berwick, N.S.
Larsen Packers Limited
0946569 04.DOC
SCHEDULE “H”
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
(re JOHSC)
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERS UNION
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
It is recognized that where there are two or more Employees from the same department on the JOHSC, there may be operational difficulties if the Committee was to do a plant tour or to hold a meeting during regularly scheduled hours of work. Therefore, where there are two or more Employees from the same department on the Committee, if such Committee functions are held outside regularly scheduled hours of work, the Employees will be paid at straight time rates while attending Committee functions. However, if all Employees on the Committee are from different departments, any Committee functions which take place outside regularly scheduled hours of work will be considered time worked for the purpose of calculating overtime.
DATED this 17th day of December, 2001 at Berwick N.S.
Larsen Packers Limited
Atlantic Meatpackers Union
Witness
0946569 04.DOC
[TO BE TYPED ON LETTERHEAD OF LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED]
December *, 2001
Mr. Paul Saunders President
Atlantic Meatpackers Union 561 Parker Condon Road RR #2
Berwick NS B0P 1E0 Dear Mr. Saunders:
This letter will confirm our discussions that took place during negotiations for renewal of the collective agreement expiring September 18, 2001, but is not part of the new Collective Agreement.
The Company agrees that if it ceases to make available to the Atlantic Meatpackers Union the present space on the premises which are used by the Union for union business, the Company will provide the Union with comparable space on the premises.
Yours sincerely,
Karl Larsen
0946569 04.DOC
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (Effluent Control)
BETWEEN:
ATLANTIC MEATPACKERS UNION
AND
LARSEN PACKERS LIMITED
It is agreed that the two Employees now working in Plant Services (Effluent Control) will be “grandfathered” in the positions, but in future, when a new department is created, positions will be posted in accordance with the language in Article 7.02 of the new Collective Agreement.
It is agreed that this letter does not form part of and will not be attached to the Collective Agreement.
DATED this 17th day of December, 2001 at Berwick N.S.
Larsen Packers Limited
Atlantic Meatpackers Union
Witness
[To be typed on letterhead of AMU]
December *, 2001
Mr. Karl Larsen President Larsen Packers P. O. Box 160 Berwick NS B0P 1E0
Dear Mr. Larsen:
This will confirm our discussion that took place during negotiations for the contract expiring September 18, 2001.
The Union agrees that it is in the best interest of both the Company and the Union to have Union representatives on the JOHSC who are broadly representative of departments throughout the plant.
During future elections of the Union members to the JOHSC, the Union will attempt to elect member from different departments in order to have a broader union representation on the Committee.
Yours truly,
Paul Saunders, President Atlantic Meatpackers Union
0946569 04.DOC