Collective Agreement
Between
Quality Meat Packers Ltd
and
United Food and Commercial Workers Canada
Local 175
Begins:
11/01/2004
Terminates:
10/31/2007
00264(08)
Source: Employees: Received by: 11/08/2006
Name.....
Address..
Phone....
Member ID.
Work Address..
Work Phone...
Union Steward Phone........
United Food& Commercial Workers Locals 175 & 633 UFCW Canada 2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905)821-8329 www.ufcw175.com
Toll-free outside Metro Toronto 1-800-565-8329 Fax (905) 821-7144
Revised March 2005
LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT LOCAL 175 UFCW CANADA
Dear Fellow Members:
I	wish to welcome new membersto Locals 175 & 633 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, and to thank long standing members for their continued support and assistance over the years.
I hope you will all read this contract and become aware of your rights and privilegesas union members. It is an important document. It identifies and guarantees your income, benefits and job security while you work for your current employer. Like an insurancepolicy, a warranty for a new car, or the deed to your home, if you are not aware of the agreement you entered into, you may not benefit from it
4s a union member with a contract, you have the freedom to plan for the future. You will know what your income will be in advance. Your rights and benefits are written down and cannot be revoked, and yourjob security is a primary element. Non-union workers do not have this protection. Their wages and benefits may be cut at any time, as may their jobs.
Become familiar with your contract. If unsure about an item or if you think your concern is not covered, speak to your Union Steward. He or she is a co-worker trained by the Union to help you with concerns and grievances in the workplace. If the problem cannot be settled by the Steward, a full-time Union Representativecan be contacted at any time to assist you.
In addition to the Stewards in the workplace and the Union Representatives who support them, we also have a team of professionals who provide support.
W should all be proud of our Unions achievements.We have proven many times that employers can treat their workers fairly and still run their business efficiently.
Inthe United Food and CommercialWorkers Union, we are committed to job security in an ever changing social environment. Only your Union can be relied upon to protect your rights.
Your union offers you representation before the Workers Safety Insurance Board. If you are injured on the job, our trained staff will support you and help you in any way hey can.
Non-Union workers are at the mercy of their employer. This is one reason our Local Union continues to grow.
Our organizing team works around the clock to help bring other workers into our union. If you know of someone who works in a non-unionenvironment, do them a favour andgive our organizers a call.
V\fe also believe in the education cf our members and their children. Lack of economic resources should not be a hindrance to further education. Inthis regard, the UFCW offers a number of scholarshipsat the local, national and international level. They are for your benefit as Union members.
In addition, your Union works to keep you up-to-date about legislation concerning your working rights.
Your Local Union represents some 50,000 members across Ontario. As we continue to grow, we have moved to keep up with the growth in areas of servicing and all-round members' support. Included in this booklet is a list of Union representatives and other representatives there to support you, the member.
Only by all of us working together can we keep what we have gained over years of hard negotiations and obtain what is rightfully ours in the future. Our labour may be the only commodity we have to sell. Let us not sell it cheaply.
Please feel free to contact me at any time with questions or concerns about the Union. This is your Union. You put the 'U' in our Union.
In Solidarity,
Wayne Hanley, President,
Local 175 UFCW CANADA.
OFFICERS
Jerry Clifford
Shawn Haggerty
Executive Assistant
Jim Has ti <is
Executive Assistant
Teresa Manet*
Executive; s ist
As	it is our job to
smooth	of
W< it d than ,6 I members r )ntario, of whom appro ti 25,000 i retail 3 k ' work in a of units, including hotels, processing
ty	< and tireless effort To < >i ili f tiisjot
we supported your Representatives, Benefits	and
or can-
answer	we c t resources to lout.
Rei we are here to serve you.
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS
The United Food and Commercial Workers is one of the largest and most respected unions. You are one of more than 230,000 members in Canada and 1.4-million members in North America.
The UFCW is the result of a merger betweentwo of the oldest and most respected unions in North America; the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America and the Retail Clerks InternationalUnion. This merger took place on June 6, 1979. The UFCW represents workers in nearly all aspects of Canadian life which is mirrored in the makeup of Locals 175 & 633.
LOCALS 175 & 633 UFCW CANADA
Your local union, with more than 50,000 members, is the largestUFCW local union, and the largest local union of any union in Canada.
This Local has the expertise, financial stability and resources to provide you, the member, with the best negotiating team, the best legal assistance, and the best all around service of any union in the country.
LOCALS 175 St 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD LOCAL175 EXECUTIVE BOARD
PRESIDENT Wayne Hanley, Oakville
SECRETARY-TREASURER Jerry Clifford* Cumberland Beach
RECORDER Betty Pardy, London
VICE-PRESIDENTS RickAlagierski, Mississauga
Jeff Aldworth, Brighton BryanBrarthwaite, Chatham Georgina Broeckel, Arthur Sam Caetano, Toronto Barbara Carr, Thunder Bay Bruce Dosman, Hanover William Foley, Burlington David Fox, Napanee SteuaGariand, Kitchener Virginia Haggith, Oakland Jim Hough, Burlington Garry Kelly, Lindsay Tim Kelly, Stratford Carolyn Levesque, Windsor Nancy Melcore, Brampton James Montgomery, Welland
Tony Morello, Angus Kevin Neville, Lunenburg Pat Newel), Port Hope Toni Pettitt, Hawkestone MarcPraill, Harrow Fitzroy Reid, Toronto Tim Ryan, Thunder Bay Scott Saunders, Woodville Don Schmidt Walkerton Dale Simon,Thunder Bay Andy Spmyt, Fonthill JuneTowter, Bradford Patricia Tweedie, Niagara Falls Karen Vaughn, Picton Chris Watson, Arthur Coreena Zurkan, Kenora
LOCAL633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
PRESIDENT Dan Bondy, Amherstbuig
SECRETARY-TREASURER Marylou Maliett, Arthur RECORDER
Neil Hotchkiss, Amherstburg
VICE-PRESIDENT: BradKoziowski, Thunder Bay Peter Small, Etobicoke BradWtgle, Windsor
What You Get For Your Union Dues
. Higher than average wages and benefits. According to recent government statistics, unionized workers make, on average, 38% more in wages and benefits than non-union workers in the same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding investmentin your future.
. Job Security. YourUnion will not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause, and it is up to management to prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens of thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitration expenses just to protect your rights. If you are unjustly discharged, your Union wil spare no expense in getting you back to work. Does a non-union worker have that kind of security?
. Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights are vitally important to your Union. Did you deserve a promotion and not get it? Are non-bargaining unit people doing your work? Wfere your bumping rights ignored? b your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairly disciplined for a very minor mistake? The Grievance Procedure allows the Union to go to bat for you. In a non-union workplace you have no rights except what management chooses to allow you.
. Problems with the Workplace Safety and InsuranceAct or Employment Insurance?The Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representing you to government agencies. These services are free to you, should you ever need them. Non-union workers are usually in the dark and out in the cold in these matters. They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help.
• Pensions, Dental Insurance, Sick Pay, Disability Insurance, etc. Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family. Should they be unable to work because of sickness or accident, would they trade their insurance protection for yours? You bet they would!
Add up what you paid in Union Dues lastyear (don’t forget that they are tax-deductible). Compare that amount with what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes, beer, movies, cable television or “impulse" gifts.
WHAT IS A UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected front-line representative of the United Food and Commercial Workers. Itis his or her duty togive you advice on your rights and to representyou to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Union Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility. Treat ten with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Steward to look into a violation of your contract rights unless you are willing to file a grievance if necessary. Their time is as important as yours. Your Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement, but only if you are willing to see it through.
Despitethe trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you’re not afraidto ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Union Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
UNION SCHOLARSHIPS,TRAINING AND EDUCATION
There are a number of scholarships availablefor Locals 175 & 633 UFCW Canada members, and their children, who are pursuing a Post Secondary education. To find out moreaboutthescholarshipprogram or various courses listed below, please contact the Locals 175 & 633 Training Centre, at (905) 564-2500 or 1-800-728-8902 orvisittheweb site: www.ufcw175.com.
Locals 175 & 633 are also aware of the need for training and education in the workplaceresutting fromtechnologicalchange, corporate restructuring and the abandonment by governments a the training and education of the workforce.
To addressthat need Locals175 & 633 offerthe mostadvanced and accessible Membership Training and Education programs in Canada. Members can choose from a variety of free educational opportunities including: Computertraining delivered from ourtrain-ing centres or over the Internet; English as a Second Language (ESL); Skills Upgrading or Ontario Secondary School Diploma credits delivered in conjunction with local school boards; and other courses such as CPR and FirstAid. Call the Training Centreor visit our Web site for current offerings.
We are also committed to ensuring our stewards are equipped with the knowledgethey need to face their employersand offer an extensive list of 20 plus courses, from introductory to advanced, including Stewardship, Collective Bargaining; Union Organizing; Health and Safety.
We were the first Union in Canada to use Mobile Computer Training Labs to bring computer courses to our members in their own local communities. These Labs complementour Training and Education Centres in Mississauga and Hamilton.
I n addition, twice a year the Locals offer fully-paid stewards and members’ scholarship programs which are conducted at the Locals’Training ^Education Centre in Mississauga. Thirty scholarships are awarded annually to stewards province-wideto attend a weeklong, in-depth training and education seminar. The theme of the week is “Labour's History: Past, Present and Future”to ensure that stewards are well-informed and educated to be representa-fives of our Union intheirworkplaces. Nine hours of hands-on computertraining is included.Another thirty members’scholarshipsare awarded for an introductory weeklong computer training course.
We are a Union that is highly committed to making education and advancement a reality for our members.
WORKPLACE SAFETY AND INSURANCE ACT ‘W.S.I.A” Formerly
WORKERS COMPENSATION ACT
The Workplace Safety and Insurance Act “W.S.I.A.", formerly, Workers Compensation Act or “W.C.B.” is an insurance program to protect workers against loss of income due to job-related disabilities. Here are answers to the most commonly asked questions:
1.	HOW DOES THE WORKER REPORT AN ACCIDENT?
If an accident occurs at work, section 22 (1) of The Act requiresa worker to file a claim as soon as possible after the accident that gives rise to the claim, but in no case shall he or she file a claim morethan six months after the accident cr, in the case tf an occupational disease, after the worker teams that he or she suffers from the disease.
2.	E THERE AN EXTENSION OF TIME?
The Board may permit a claim to be filed after the six monthperi-od expires if, in the opinion of the Board it isjust to do so.
3.	WHAT FORMS MUST BE COMPLETED TO RECEIVE BENEFITS?
Section 22 (4)... A claim must be on a form approved by the Board and must be accompaniedby such informationand documents as the Board may require.
4.	WHAT CONSENT OF DISCLOSURE E REQUIRED?
Section 22 (5)... When filing a claim, a worker must consent to the disclosure to his or her employer of information provided by a health professionalundersubsedion37(e) concerning theworkertefunction-al abilities. The disclosure is for the sole purpose of facilitating the worker's return to work
5.	FAILURE TO FILE?
Section 22 (6)... If the claimant does not file the claim with the Board in accordance with this section or does not give the consent required by sub-section (5) no benefits shall be provided under the insurance plan unlessthe Board, in its opinion, decidesthat it is just to do so
6.	NOTICE TO EMPLOYER?
Section 22 (7)... The claimant shall give a copy of his or her claim to the worker's employer at the time the claim is given to the board.
7.	NOTICE OF MATERIAL CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES?
Section 23 (3). A person receiving benefits under the insurance
plan or who may be entitled to do so shall notify the Board of a material change in circumstances in connection with the entitlementwithin 10 days after the material change occurs.
8.	WAGES FOR DAY OF ACCIDENT?
Section 24 (l)The employer shall payaworkerwho is entitled to benefits underthe insurance plan his or her wages and employment benefits for the day of the injury as if the accident had not occured.
9.	EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS?
Sedion25 (1)... Throughouttte first year afteraworker is injured, the employer shall make contributions for employment benefits in respect to the worker when the worker is absent from work because of the injury. However, the contributionsare required only if:
(a)	the employer was making contributions for employment benefits in respectto the workerwhen the injury occured
and
(b)	the worker continuesto pay his or her contributions if any, forthe employment benefits while the worker is absent from work.
10.	DUTY TO COOPERATE IN RETURN TO WORK?
Section 40 (l.yhe employer of an injured worker shall co-operate in the early and safe returnto work of the worker by:
(a)	contacting the worker as soon as possible after the injury occurs and maintaining communication throughout the period of the worker’s recovery and impairment
(b)	attempting to provide suitable employment that is available and consistent with the worker’s functional abilities and that, when possible, restores the worker’s pre-injury earnings
(c)	giving the Board such information as the Board may request concerning the worker’s returnto work and
(d)	doing such otherthings as may be prescribed.
WORKERS DUN?
Section 40 (2)... The workershall co-operate in hisor her early and safe returnto work by:
(a)	contactinghis or her employer as soon as possibleafter the injury occurs and maintaining communicationthroughoutthe period of the worker's recovery and impairment
(b)	assisting the employer, as may be required or requested, to identify suitable employmentthat is available and consistent with the
worker’s functional abilities and that, when possible, restores his <r her pre-injury earnings
(c)	giving the Boardsuch information asthe Board may requestcon-ceming the worker’s return to work and
(d)	doing such otherthings as may be prescribed.
11.	NOTICE OF DISPUTE?
Section 40 (6).. The employer or the worker shall notify the Board of any difficulty or dispute concerning their co-operation with each other in the worker’s early and safe return to work
12.	OBLIGATION TO RE-EMPLOY?
Sedion41 (1 ]Jne employerof a workerwho has been unable to work as a result of an injury and who, on the date of the injury, had been employed continuously for at least one year by the employer shall offer to re-employ the worker in accordance with this section.
Section 41 (4) When the worker is medically able to perform the essential duties of his or her pre-injury employment, the employer shall.
(a)	offer to re-employ the worker in the position that the worker held on the date of injury, or
(b)	offer to provide the worker with alternative employment cf a nature and at earnings comparable to the worker's employment on the date of injury
TIME LIMITS
1	A 30 day time limit on appealing a Board decision about return to work or a labour market re-entry plan made on or after January 1, 1998.
2	A six month time limit on appealing any other Board decision made on or after January 1,1998.
3	A six month time limit on filing a claim.
The changes to the new act are significant and have reduced o r limitedentitlementfor injuredworkers. However, you should never let managementtalk you out of filing a claim, it is your right. I n fact it is a violation for an employer to refuse to submit a claim.
Your local union has a benefit department that will answer any questions you may have in regard to filing or appealing a W.S.I.B. claim. Contact your union office.
EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (formerly UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE)
On June 30, 1996 the Employment Insurance Act came into effect. Additional changes became effective January 1,1997 and December 31st 2000. The new system reflects a fundamental restructuringof the old Unemployment Insurance System.
“Where to Apply?”
Apply at the local Human Resource Centre of Canada. Check the telephone directory under Human Resources Development Canada or Canada Employment Centre for the officenearest you.
Regular Benefits:
You can receive regular benefits if you lost your job and you can't find work, provided that you meet these requirements:
. you have been without work and without pay for at least seven
consecutivedays;
. you have paid into the El account;
. you have worked the required minimum number of hours in the last 52 weeks; the number of hours of work needed, may range from 420-700 hours depending on the unemploymentrate in your region.
. there are two exceptions: if this is your first job ever, or your first job after coming back into the workforce after an absence of two years or more, you will need a minimum of 910 hours of work to qualify regardless of the local unemployment rate.
In most cases you will receive 55% of your insured earnings to a maximum of $413 perweek. Claimantswho are in a low income family (an income of less than $25,921) with children and receive the Child Tax Benefit will receive a Family Supplement based on your Child Tax Benefit. Your benefit rate can be increased to a maximum of 65% but not greaterthan the maximum benefit rate of $413 (2001).
Claimants can collect benefits between 14 and 45 weeks depending on the unemployment rate in their region, and the number of hours they have worked in the last 52 weeks.
How to Calculate the Benefit Amount?
The benefit rate is based on your average insured earnings in the last 26 weeks of work. Your insured earnings will be averaged over a number of weeks known as a divisor, which is based on the unemploymentrate in your region. The divisor is the greater of.
(a)	the number of waeks of insured earnings in the last 26 waek period; or
(b)	the number of weeks specified in the divisor table.
If you worked for only the minimum number of weeks required to qualify, or for one week longer than that, then the minimum divisor applies to you.
Intensity Rule:
Any waek of regular benefits collected after June 30, 1996 could affect your benefit rate on future claims. Vtfeeks of benefits claimed will stay on your claim history for five (5) years Working while on a claim can help you to reduce the number of weeks on your claim history. Your claim history is maintained for five years.
Wbtk Credits:
Claimants who work while they receive regular benefits and earn enough to reduce their EI cheques will be able to earn work credits to be applied againstthe intensity rule. The total amount they save the El system by working while on a claim will be converted into weeks of unpaid benefits. Those weeks will then be credited against the application of the intensity rule for the next claim in the next five years.
Sick Benefits:
Sick benefits are paidfor up to 15 weeks, ifyou have 600 hours of insurable employment in the last 52 weeks or since the start of your last claim. If you get sick after your employment was interrupted for another reason, such as temporary layoff, you may be eligible with less than 600 hours. Medical reports are necessary
Maternity Benefits:
If your child is bom or adopted after December31st, 2001. You must have worked and paid El premiums for at least 600 hours in the last 52 weeks, or since the beginning of your last El claim. You can start collecting maternity benefits up to 8 weeks before you are scheduled to give birth. However, benefits cannot be received later than 17 weeks after the baby is due or bom, unless the infant is confined to a hospital.
ParentalBenefrts:
Parental benefits can be collected for up to 35 weeks by both natural and adoptive parents while they are caring for a newborn or adopted child. Under the new rules a combination of maternity (biological mothers only), parental and sickness benefits can be received up to a combined maximum of 50 weeks in a 52 week period.
Benefits are paid at 55% of your average insured earnings up to a maximum of $413 per week.
Employment Insurance Compassionate Leave:
As of January 4, 2004, Compassionate care benefits may be paid up to a maximum of 6 weeks to a person who has to be absent from work to provide care or support to a gravely ill family member who is at risk of dying within 26 weeks. Unemployed persons on El can also ask for this type of benefit.
To be eligible for compassionate care benefits you must apply and show that:
•	your regular weekly earnings from work have decreased by more than 40%; and
•	you have accumulated 600 insured hours in the last 52 weeks or since the start of your last claim. This period is called the qualifying period.
You can receivecompassionate care benefits to care for one of the following family members:
•	your child or the child of your spouse or common-law partner;
•	yourwife/husband or common-lawpartner;
•	your father/mother;
•	your father’s wife/mother’s husband;
•	the common-law partner of your father/mother.
Common-lawpartner means a person who has been I i n g in a conjugal relationship with that person for at least a year.
Wien requesting compassionate care benefits you must provide a medical certificate as proof that the illfamily member needs care or support and is at rik of dying within 26 weds.
Discharge or Quit:
No regular benefits are paid to those workers who quit a job without just cause or who are fired for misconduct. You may appeal a disqualification. Contact your Union if you need assistance with your appeal.
FOR MORE INFORMATION
CONTACT
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT CANADA OR
CANADA EMPLOYMENT CENTRE
SHOULD YOU HAVE A PROBLEM CALL YOUR
LOCAL UNION REPRESENTATIVE FOR HELP!
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY ACT
Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management and workers live up to their responsibilities under Ontario's Occupational Health and Safety Act. Here is a quick guide to the Act. For details, refer to the Act itself, which is found in the small green book which must be posted in every workplace.
Employer's Duties
Among other things, the employer must:
. Provideinformation, instruction and training to a worker to protect the health & safety of the worker.
. Acquaint the worker with any workplace hazard.
. Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
. Co-operate with and assist the health and safety committee and representative.
•	Take every precautionreasonablefor the protection oftheworker. Supervisor's Duties
In stores, the Supervisor is normally the Store Manager. He must:
. Ensurethat the worker works in a safe manner and uses all the equipment, protective devices or clothing that is required.
. Advise a worker of any potential or actual danger to health and safety.
•	Providewritten safety instructions,where required.
•	Be familiar with the Act and regulations.
Workers' Obligations
. Use all safety equipment and wear all protective clothing required by the employer.
•	Report any potentially unsafe condition or defect in safety equipment to your Supervisor.
■ Obey the Health and Safety law and all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulations to your Supervisor.
Workers may not:
•	Remove or turn off any safety device.
. Use any equipment or work in a manner which may endanger yourself or another worker.
•	Engage in horseplay cf any kind.
The Right to Refuse Unsafe Work
If you encounter an unsafe condition at work, your first obligation is to report it to your Supervisor. Once you have done that, you may refuse to work at a job or task where you have reason to believe that.
. Any machine or equipmentyou are supposed to use is likely to
endanger yourself or another worker, or • The condition of the workplace itself is hazardous.
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal. He must then investigate the matter in your presence and that of a health and safety representative of the workers (normally the Steward or a member of the Health & Safety Committee), if the Supervisor orders you back to work and you are still not satisfied that the job is safe, you may continue to refuse to work, provided you have reasonablegrounds to believe the condition still constitutes a hazard.
At this point, the Inspector from the Ministry of Labour must be called in. While you are waiting for him, the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he is informed that the job was refused and the reasons for the refusal. This second worker also has the same right to refuse. The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable alternative work, subject to the CollectiveAgreement.
The decision of the Inspector is final. Although his order may be appealed, you must return to the job if he so orders, pending the outcome of such appeal.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface......
Article 1 Article 2 Article 3 Article 3.1 Article 3.2 Article 3.3 Article 3.5
Article 4 Article 5 Article 6 Article 7 Article 8 Article 9 Article 10 Article 11 Article 12 Article 12.14
Article 13
Article 14 Article 14.7 Article 14.8 Article 14.9 Article 14.12 Article 14.13
Article 15 Article 16 Article 17 Article 18
Page No.
Recognition................
Purpose....................
Union Security.............
Payment of Dues............
Assessments................
Membership.................
Address List...............
Management Rights..........
No Discrimination..........
No Strikes and No Lockouts..
Settlement of Grievances...
Wages and Classifications..
Premium Pay................
Hours of Work and Overtime Plant Holidays
Seniority.....
Part Time.....
Vacations.....
Miscellaneous.................
Bereavement Pay...............
Injury Shift Guarantee........
Company Supplied Equipment....
Pregnancy/Parental Leave......
Appearance in Court...........
Safety and Health.............
Labour Management Committee..
Union Notices.................
Health, Welfare and Pension Plan
1
2
3
3
3
4
5 5
5
6 6 7
13
13
14 17
19
25
27
30
31
32 32 35
35
36
36
37 37
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Article 19 Article 20 Article 21 Article 22 Article 23 Article 24 Article 25 Article 26 Appendix “A’
Appendix “B” Appendix “C”
Page No.
Weekly Pay Guarantee.........
Job Posting..................
Employment Age and Retirement
Student Employment...........
Skills Enhancement...........
Good Attendance Bonus........
Economic Adjustment..........
Duration of Agreement........
Agreement as it applies to Toronto Abattoirs...............
Wage & Group Schedule........
Job Classifications..........
Letter of Agreement - Historical Reference.......
Memorandum of Agreement “A’ Index........................
41
41
43
43
44
44
45 45
47
48
49
61
63
65
PREFACE
This booklet contains a consolidation of Collective Agreements between Quality Meat Packers Limited and the United Food and Commercial Workers and between Toronto Abattoirs Limited and United Food and Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175, which agreements are in effect for the period November 1, 2004 to October 31, 2007. The full text of the Collective Agreement between Quality Meat Packers Limited and United Food and Commercial Workers is set out in this booklet. That text applies with respect to the Agreement with Toronto Abattoirs Limited, subject to the exceptions set out in Appendix “A”.
With respect to any disagreement between the parties, the signed Collective Agreements will be used to settle the disagreement.
1
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between
QUALITY MEAT PACKERS LIMITED (hereinafter called “the Company”)
- and-
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CAI affiliated with the
(hereinafter called “the Union”)
Recognizing that the welfare of the Company and that of its employees depends upon the welfare of the business as a whole, and recognizing further that a relationship of goodwill and mutual respect between employer and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance and increase of that welfare, the parties to this contract join together in the following agreement:
1.1	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for all employees of the Company working in Toronto, and Brampton, save and except foremen, persons abovethe rank of foreman, office and sales staff, stationary engineers and persons primarily engaged as their helpers in the Boiler Room.
1.2	No employee outside of the bargaining unit will be used on work of the same nature as that performed by employees in the bargaining unit except as follows:
(i)	For the purpose of breaking in new employees or employees on a new job, or instructing employees.
(ii)	For the purpose of taking an employee’s place temporarily in such cases as failure to show up for
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
2
work, or who had to be relieved due to injury or sickness, or who, for other reasons, is temporarily absent from the job, or to help relieve a back log, or unexpected emergent scheduling conditions.
(iii)	Notwithstanding Article 1.2 (ii) and Article 9.2, supervisors and other excluded employees shall not be used for purposes of causing a layoff of bargaining unit employees or reducing their regular or overtime hours.
It is further understood that foremen with a unit of ten people or less will be able to perform the same work that is performed by the people in the unit.
Non-union personnel may also be permitted to do the same work as the bargaining unit for a period of three months, provided that time is used to train personnel to become supervisors.
Foremen will not work on overtime unless an employee scheduled to work on overtime does not report.
1.3	The use of the masculine gender in this agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine.
ARTICLE 2 - PURPOSE
2.1	The purpose of this agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationshipbetween the Company and its employees; to define more clearly hours of work, wages and conditions of employment;and to provide an amicable method of settling differences or grievances, which may from time to time arise.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
3.1	Payment of Dues
(A) The Company shall during the term of this Agreement, as a condition of employment de-
— 3 —
duct from members of the bargaining unit, the regular weekly union dues and such dues shall be remitted to the Union, in the format in (B) below, prior to the fifteenth (15) of the month following the month in which such deduction is made.
The Company shall collect membership initiation fees as may be established by the Union and forward any application forms and such fees to the Union in the format outlined in (B) below, with the regular monthly dues remittance.
(B) The remittance statement shall be documented by location containing a dues and initiation report which will be provided in the form of e-mail (remit@ufcwl75.com) or on a computer diskette as well as a hard copy of the dues report being attached to the remittance cheque. The information provided shall be on a standard spreadsheet in Excel, Quattro Pro, Lotus or other software program acceptableand adaptable to the Union. The spreadsheet will be in a format provided by the Union and the Company will provide the following current information: as known to the Company.
1.	S.I.N.
2.	Employee number
3.	Full name (Last/First/Initials)
4.	Date of hire
5.	Rate of pay
6.	Union dues deducted
7.	Total dues deducted
8.	Initiation fees deducted
9.	Total initiation fees deducted
3.2	Assessments
Special assessments if levied in accordance with the Constitution and By-laws of the Union will be deducted from members of the Union upon proper notification from the Union.
— 4 —
3.3	Membership
AH employees covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union within thilty (30) working days following the date of their employment, and shall thereaftermaintain membership in theUnion in good standing. At the time of hiring, the Company shall give new employees a membership application card which must be signed and handed in to the Company Human Resources Department within the above mentioned thirty (30) day period. If the employee fails to become a member, the Union shall advise the Company forthwith.
For the purpose of this Agreement, employees who are or who become members shall be deemed to maintain their membership in the Union in good standing provided they pay in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement the regularly prescribed initiation fee, regular monthly dues, and periodic assessments uniformly required of all members of the Local Union.
3.4	The union agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims made by employees with respect to deductions or remittances made pursuant this Article 3.
3.5	Address List
The Company agrees to remit, twice annually, to the Union a complete address list, including telephone number (including area code) and S.I.N. of all Union Members.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.1	Subject to the provisions of this agreement, the management and operation of the business, and the employment, direction, promotion, transfer, lay-off of employees, and suspension or discharge of employees for just cause, shall be vested in the management of the Company.
4.2	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company also to establish reasonable plant rules
— 5 —
not inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement to govern the conduct of the employees. The Union will be consulted and informed of the issuance of such rules.
4.3	The Union also acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to determine the products to be handled, produced or manufactured, schedules of production, and the methods, processes and means of production or handling.
4.4	The Company agrees that it will not exercise its management rights in a manner inconsistent with the express provisions of this agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - NO DISCRIMINATION
5.1	It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination, coercion or intimidation by the Company, the Union or its officers or members against any employee because of his lawful activity orlack of activity, membershipornon-membership in the Union, or due to any political affiliation, race, colour, or religion. It isfurther agreed that there shall be no solicitation for members, collection of dues, or other Union activity during working hours except as permitted by this agreement. It is understood that no meeting of the Union or its members shall be held on the premises of the Company, nor shall any of its activities be so held at any time without the prior written approval of the Company.
ARTICLE 6 - NO STRIKES AND NO LOCKOUTS
6.1	In view of the orderly procedure herein set out for the settlement of grievances, the Company agrees that there will be no lockout of the employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strike or refusal to work or continue to work by employees, in combination or in concert, or in accordance with a common understanding, or a slow-down or other concerted activity on the part of employees designed to restrict or limit output.
— 6 —
ARTICLE 7 - SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES
7.1	(a) Both the Company and the Union emphasize the
desirability of a satisfactory grievanceprocedure, the purpose of which will be to settle as many grievances as possible promptly and on the spot.
(b)	The company agrees to provide the Plant Chairperson with four (4) hours paid time per day to attend to Union business.
7.2	The Union agrees to appoint or elect a maximum of sixteen (16) Stewards, a maximum of eight (8) per plant, and one (1) chairperson for both plants. One of the stewards will be recognized as the Chief Steward for Quality Meat Packers Limited and one will be recognized for Toronto Abattoirs Limited. The Company agrees to recognize such Stewards, provided they are regular employees of the Company, to deal with matters affecting employees in their plant. A list of these Stewards will be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised immediately by the Union, in writing of any change in this list.
7.3	(a) The Union’s grievance committee will consist of
the Chairperson, Chief Steward and Steward of the department affected to deal with grievances. A list of grievance committee members shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised immediately in writing of any change in this list.
(b)	The Company will pay members of the grievance committee at their regular rate for time spent in meetings of the grievance committee with management representatives.
7.4	The right of the Stewards and members of the Grievance Committee to leave their work without loss of basic pay to attend to Union business is granted on the following conditions.
7 —
(a)	Such business must be between the Union and Company management.
(b)	The time shall be devoted to the prompt handling of necessary Union business.
(c)	The Steward or Grievance Committee member concerned shall obtain the permission of his supervisor before leaving his work. If an employee is involved, who will be required to leave his workstation, the permission of the employee’s supervisor must also be obtained. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
7.5	Grievances shall he dealt with in the following manner:
(a)	1st Step - The grievance must be filed, in writing, within seven (7) working days after the event giving rise to the grievance occurred or it is deemed abandoned. Within this period of time, it shall be discussed between the employee(s), his Steward, and the foreperson. The foreperson shall give the Union his decision within four (4) working days from the date the discussion took place. If the Union wishes to appeal to the next step, the grievance shall be delivered to the Company’s Human Resources Department within three (3) working days of the delivery of the foreperson’s decision to the Union.
The parties acknowledge and agree that this provision does not prevent employees and their foreperson or supervisor discussing and resolving issues directly between them, however, if the employee decides to proceed with a formal grievance then it must be initiated as above.
(b)	2nd Step - If a grievance is not settled at the 1st Step and there is a request to hold a 2nd Step
— 8 —
meeting, the meeting shall be held within seven (7) working days. Present at the meeting will be such members of the grievance committee as the Union designates and the Human ResourcesMan-ager and/or such other persons as he may designate to represent the Company for the purpose of attempting to resolve the grievance. If settlement is not reached at the 2nd Step, the Union shall have four (4) working days following the receipt of the Company’s written decision to request a 3rd Step meeting. This request must be made in writing and delivered to the Human Resources Department within the said four (4) working days.
(c)	3rd Step - If a grievance is not settled at the 2nd Step, and there is a request to hold a 3rd Step meeting, such meeting shall be held within seven (7) working days of the notice or such other time as the parties mutually agree in writing. Present at the meeting will be such members of the grievance committee as the Union designates and the Human Resources Manager, and/or such other persons as he may designateto represent the Company. A National Representative of the Union may be requested by either party. If settlement is not reached, the Company shall have ten (10) working days following this meeting to inform the Grievance Committee of its decision in writing.
(d)	The grievor(s) and the foreperson(s) may be present at the 2nd Step if either the Union or the Company so desire.
(e)	The grievor will be in attendance at third step meetings when requested by the Union
7.6	(a) If settlement is not reached at the 3rd Step, either
party shall have thirty (30) working days follow— 9 —
ing the delivery of the Company’s decision to the Union to refer the matter to arbitration. If this does not occur then it is deemed that the grievance has been abandoned.
(b)	The grievance shall be referred by the Union or by the Company to an arbitration committee of three (3) members, one to be appointed by the Union, one by the Company, and a third who shall act as chairman, to be mutually agreed upon by the other two. Upon receipt of the name of the member appointed by the party submitting the grievance to arbitration, the other party shall name its nominee. If it fails to do so within two (2) weeks, its nominee will be appointed by the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario. If agreement cannot be reached within one (1) week as to the appointment of a third member, he shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario.
(c)	The parties, by agreement in writing, may agree to the arbitration being conducted by a single arbitrator, as opposed to the committee of three (3) members as set out in (b) herein and the conditions applying to the said committee as set out in (b) shall apply to the said single arbitrator.
(d)	The arbitrator or arbitration board appointed shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision, which shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it.
(e)	The arbitrator or arbitration board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of the agreement.
— 10 —
7.7	If either the Company or the Union alleges violation of this Collective Agreement through action of the officials of either, the grievance shall be dealt with through the grievance procedure established by this article beginning with Step 3.
7.8	When a grievance which affects the rate of pay o f an employee is settled, and as a result of such a settlement the employee receives an increase in his rate, the increase shall be paid retroactively to the date of the error in rate (f pay, provided however, that in no event shall retroactivity exceed 180 days in total.
7.9	With respect to seniority employees who are dismissed or suspended, the grievance procedure set outat 7.5 subject to the following is not applicable. The procedure shall be as follows:
(a)	If a seniority employee is dismissed or suspended for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall promptly notify a member of the grievance committee who shall, within seven (7) working days of receipt of notice of dismissal or suspension by the aggrieved employee, notify the Human Resources Department in writing. stating the ground of objection to the dismissal or suspension. The dismissal or suspension shall then constitute a grievance, and shall be dealt with according to the grievance procedure set out above beginning with the 3rd Step. If subsequently it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed or suspended, he shall be reinstated in his forma position and shall be compensated for all time lost at this regular rate of pay or granted such lesser compensation as may be deemed fair in the circumstances. To ensure prompt handling of any such grievance except by mutual agreement be-
tween the Company and the Union, the Company may refuse to consider any such grievance not filed within the said seven (7) working days of receipt of notice of dismissal or suspension, and not more than five (5) working days shall be allowed for consideration under each successive step until the matter is brought to arbitration.
(b)	A Steward or Union representative, when available, will be present when a seniority employee receives a written warning or is suspended or discharged.
(c)	The Company will notify the Steward, or his designated representative, within one working day if a seniority employee is discharged or suspended.
(d)	A copy of any official written notice of reprimand, suspension or discharge shall be given to the Union.
(e)	If requested by an employee and with reasonable notice, an employee will be allowed to see his/ her file in the presence of a management representative.
7.10	A Union Steward may discuss with the foreperson direct matters, which may affect the welfare of the department as a whole even though at the time same may not constitute a grievance.
7.11	The Company will provide an appropriate secure area for the Union filing cabinet in all locations.
7.12	The time limits set out in this Article 7 may be extended by mutual agreement, in writing.
Neither party shall raise or proceed with a timeliness issue argument regarding “filing for arbitration” without first giving the other party written prior notice of its intent to do so.
Should either party serve such notice on the other party the
— 12 —
parties further agree that the final time frame in the collective agreement respecting “filing for arbitration” shall then be triggered.
ARTICLE 8 -WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
8.1	Wages and classifications are set out in Appendix “B” and Appendix “C” attached hereto.
8.2	Employees permanently or temporarily transferred for five (5) days or more to a job in a higher group shall be paid the rate of the new group.
8.3	Employees permanently or temporarily transferred for five (5) days or more to a job in a lower group shall be paid the rate of the new group.
8.4	“Employees’ pay stubs will be provided in envelopes, unless an emergency condition exists. Within one hundred twenty (120) days of ratification of this Agreement, the Company will pay by direct deposit to the employee’s account in a recognized financial institution of the employee’s own choice. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to provide void cheques and other banking information as required by the payroll process when requested by the Company. The Company shall give a pay stub breakdown of weekly payment to the employees at the plant or by mail in the event the employee is not at work.”
ARTICLE 9 - PREMIUM PAY
9.1	Shift Premium:
Employees who work between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. will be paid thirty-five ($.35) cents per hour over their regular rate for all hours worked between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Such premium shall not be part of an employee’s regular hourly job rate.
9.2	Team Leader:
(a)	Team Leader shall be defined as a person who — 13 —
performs work and directs work of others, and shall not have authority to hire, fire, suspend or otherwise penalize other employees, and he/she shall be a Union member.
(b)	Team Leader shall not receive preferential treatment where daily overtime is concerned, or daily hours worked when a supervisor is present in the department.
(c)	It is understood and agreed that the Company has the sole discretion to determine whether any Team Leader position is to be created or filled. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company has the right to eliminate any existing team leader position without posting for its replacement. If the Company determines that a new team leader position is to be created or if it determines that a Team Leader position left vacant is to be filled, the Company agrees that such team leader position shall be posted, but seniority, skill and competency, and attitude shall be equal criteria for selection, notwithstanding any provisions of Article 12 or Article 20 to the contrary.
(d)	Team Leader shall receive fifty-five cents ($0.55) above the highest rate actually paid to employees under his/her direction except in cases where the Team Leader is the highest rated employee in which case fifty-five cents ($0.55) shall be added to his/her job rate.
ARTICLE 10 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
10.1	The Company intends to operate a normal work day schedule of eight (8) hours and a normal work week schedule of forty (40) hours but this will not be a guarantee of hours per day or per week. If the demands of the business — 14 —
cannot best be met in areas of the plant with a normal work day schedule of eight (8) hours, the Company may operate such areas of the plant on a normal work day scheduleof up to twelve (12) hours and a normal work week scheduleof up to forty-eight (48) hours.
10.2	If the Company makes application to the Director of Employment Standards to adopt a regular schedule cf up to twelve (12) hours per day and up to forty-eight (48) hours per week, the Union agrees that such application will be supported by the Union.
10.3	(a) An employee will be informed by their supervisor
of their normal daily and weekly hours of work schedule and will remain on such scheduleunless changed by the Company to another schedule.
(b) The Company will give, if practical, twenty-four (24) hours’ notice of a change in regular scheduled shift.
10.4	Subject to the provisions of the Employment Standards Act of Ontario, it is agreed by both the Company and the Union that, as a result of fluctuating livestock receipts, variable volume, breakdowns and other circumstanceswhich are beyond the reasonable control of the Company, employees will be required at times to work in excess of the number of hours in their daily schedule or in excess of forty eight (48) hours in a calendar week. When employees are required to work in excess of the number of hours in their daily or weekly schedule, their supervisor will inform their department steward and will post notice of such in a conspicuous location in the department as early as reasonably possible.
10.5	Overtime shall be distributed as equally as possible among those employees normally performing the work, in accordance with current practice. With respect to overtime required at the end of a scheduled shift, if there are not enough volunteers among the employees normally performing the
— 15 —
work, the Company will require the least senior employ ee(s) on the shift in the department with the qualifications to perform the required work. With respect to all other overtime required, if there are not enough volunteers among the employees normally performing the work, the Company will require the least senior employee(s) in the department with the qualifications to perform the required work.
10.6
(a)	1-1/2 Times after forty-two (42)hours. The Company will pay one and one half (1-1/2) times their regular rates to employees for all hours worked in excess of forty-two (42) hours in a calendar week.
(b)	1-1/2 Times for Sunday work. The Company will pay to employees one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular rate for work performed on Sunday,
(c)	If an employee is paid one and one half (1-1/2) times their regular rate for any hours worked prior to reaching forty-two (42)hours worked in a calendar week, such hours paid at time and one-half (I 1 /2) will not count as part of the forty-two (42) hours worked that are necessary to require further payment of one and one-half (1-1/2).
(a)	Paid Breaks:
The Company agrees to grant two (2) paid rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each, as scheduled by the Company, for work performed on a shift of greater than six (6) hours. Employees shall be granted one additional rest period of fifteen (15) minutes, as scheduled by the Company, if required to work greater than ten (10) hours.
(b)	Unpaid Meal Break:
The unpaid meal period shall be either one (1) hour or one half (1/2) hour, as scheduled by the Company.
— 16 —
10.7	(a) If an employee reports to work at his regularly
scheduled time and there is no work available for him in his regular job, he will be given four (4) hour’s work at some otherjob or four (4) hour’s pay at his applicable hourly rate unless he has received previous notification not to report for work. This clause will not apply if work is not available as a result of causes beyond the reasonable control of the Company.
(b) An employee who, after leaving the Company’s premises, is called to return to the plant for an emergency shall be paid for a minimum cf four (4)hours at his regular rate.
ARTICLE 11 -PLANT HOLIDAYS
11.1	The Company agrees to pay all employees for eight (8) hours at their regular rate of pay for each of the nine (9) holidays listed below regardless of the day on which they fall. If a holiday falls on a Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
Labour Day	Civic Holiday
ThanksgivingDay Christmas Day Boxing Day
In addition to the foregoing, one (1) floater holiday will be granted. However, the floating holiday will not apply to any employee during the first year of that employee’s employment, nor will it apply to any employee who is absent for the full year for any reason. The date of observance of this holiday will be determined by mutual agreement between the parties. It is understood that no floating holiday will be allowed during the months of June to September and during the month of December of each year and employ eeswho do not take their floating holiday shall receive eight (8) hours’ — 17 —
pay at their regular rate to be paid during the first full pay period of December.
11.2	In the event that the Government declares Heritage Day to be a statutory holiday, then it will replace the floating holiday. The granting of such holiday with pay will be subject to the same conditions which govern the pay of other holidays.
11.3	An employee shall not be eligible for pay for such holidays (except for the floating holiday) if he:
(a)	was hired less than four (4) weeks prior to the Holiday:
(b)	is absent on the work days immediately preceding or next following any holiday. However, if an employee has taken absent due to certified illness or injury, or with the permission of the Company. on either or both of the work days immediately preceding or next following the holiday, and has not been absent for a period in excess of thirty (30) days, he shall be considered eligible for pay for such holiday, subject to the provisions of Ax-tide 11.4.
(c)	is on lay off or leave of absence.
11.4	An employee who is receiving W.S.I.B. or Weekly Indemnity benefits during the period when a plant holiday falls shall receive only the amount of pay by which the pay for the holiday exceeds such Weekly Indemnity benefit or W.S.I.B. payment for that day.
11.5	If hourly -rated employees do perform work on any of the nine (9) plant holidays listed above, they shall receive, if eligible, holiday pay, and shall, in addition, he paid time and one half (1 1/2) their regular rates for all hours worked on such days.
— 18 —
ARTICLE 12 - SENIORITY
12.1	New employeeswill be considered probationary employees for the first ninety (90) days worked of their employment and during their probationary period such employees, who will be entitled to no seniority,may be disciplined, dismissed or laid off at the sole discretion of the Company. At the end of the probationary period the employee will be entered on the seniority list as of the date of original hiring. Employees laid off during their probationary period who are recalled within thirty (30) calendar days, will retain their original hiring date. If' recalled after thirty (30) calendar days, they will start back as a new employee.
12.2	Promotions will be made on the basis of ability.When two or more employees are considered by the Company to possess sufficient ability, then seniority will be the governing factor, and the Company will not exercise its discretion in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
12.3	Seniority records will be posted on the bulletin board and revised each six (6) months. A copy of the seniority list shall be given to a Union Representative from the Local Union. If more than one employee is hired on the same day, their names shall be placed on the seniority list in alphabetical order using their surnames.
12.4	Seniority service records shall be considered broken and employment terminated when an employee voluntarily leaves the serviceof the Company, or is discharged for cause. or has been laid off by the Company for eighteen (18)months or longer, or is absent without notifying the Company for more than two (2) working days, unless excused by the Company.
12.5	In the event of a lay-off due to lack of work, the Company will endeavor to give the employees affected five (5) days notice. The Union Representative of the Local Union will also be given notice of lay-offs.
— 19 —
12.6	(a) In any case of permanent or indefinite layoffs,
seniority shall govern. An employee who is laid off in his own department will be assigned to another job in the plant, due consideration being given to skill, experience, and the time required to learn the job.
(b) (i) With respect to temporary layoffs, the primary consideration is seniority will govern, with due consideration to skill, ability and the time required to learn the job. The following defines the terminology utilized:
(ii)	“Branch Departments are a room or rooms within the main department. i.e. boning, chilled pork packaging, and cutting room, etc. are branch departments within the Fresh Pork Department.”
(iii)	Quality Meat Packers Main Departments and Branch Departments are currently as follows:
1.	Fresh Pork Department
Branch Departments: Cutting, Boning, Chilled Pork Packaging.
2.	Shipping
Branch Departments: Shipping, Receiving.
3.	Sanitation
(iv)	Temporary layoffs of less than sixteen (16) weeks shall be handled in the following manner:
1.	When reducing the work force within a branch department, the senior most employees will be retained first. If their position has been temporarily eliminated, they will be offered the most junior per— 20 —
manent position remaining in the branch department, subject to the considerations set out in paragraph 12.6(b) (i) above. If they choose not to bump the junior employee, they will be offered the opportunity to accept voluntary lay-off for the duration of the temporary lay-off period.
2.	Once branch departmental staffing is adjusted, those most junior employees displaced, starting with the least senior employee who has more seniority than an employee in the Main department, will have the right to bump into the most junior permanent position within the Main department, subject to the considerations set out in paragraph 12.6(b) (i) above. This process requires that the mostjunior positions be filled first. If it is not taken by that employee, it will be offered to the next senior employee being displaced, moving up the list until it has been taken or all employees have chosen lay-off rather than exercise bumping rights.
3.	Junior Main department employees displaced will have aright to displacejunior employees on the Master Seniority list located in the same plant as the employee displaced, subject to the considerations set out in paragraph 12.6 (b) (i) above. Again, the most junior employees from the Main department are offered the most junior position on the Master List in the same plant. The next most junior employee from the Main department is offered the next mostjunior position (if the mostjunior position is displaced),mov-
— L\ —
ing upward until it has been taken or all employees have chosen lay-off rather than exercise bumping rights.
(c)	The Company will endeavor to give all employees five (5) working days’ notice in writing of a lay off. If the employee moves to another department with a different rate, the employee will assume the new rate according to the applicable wage schedule.
(d)	Employees recalled to their home departments must return.
12.7	a) Recall from permanent or indefinite layoffs shall be based on seniority; the last hired shall be the first laid off and the last to be laid off shall be the first recalled, due consideration being given to skill, experience, and the time required to learn the job.
b) Employees on temporary layoff will be called back in order of seniority in accordance with the following procedure:
1.	Recall will be to recall those most senior employees overall on layoff and who at layoff requested, in writing, that they be recalled for any job, plant-wide, for which they arc qualified and able to perform.
2.	Recall will be those most senior employees who requested, in writing, that they only be recalled for any job within their main department for which they are qualified and able to perform;
3.	Recall will be those most senior employees who requested, in writing, that they only be recalled for any job within their branch department for which they are qualified and able to perform;
— 22 —
4.	Employees taking layoff and have elected to return only to their branch or main department will have the opportunity to change their election after eight (8) complete weeks of layoff. If they do so, they will then be considered for the next available opening according to their choice and they can choose to stay on layoff for another eight (8) week period.
5.	It is acceptable for those employees who decide to change their election, to do so by contacting the Company (or Union) by phone prior to start of the next two (2) month period.
6.	Employees must return to their branch department when recalled.
7.	Employees may not stay on layoff if they have been recalled by seniority, once all employees have been recalled.
12.8	Any employee who has been notified by registered letter at his last known address to return to work and within three (3) days bas failed to do so, or failed to contactthe of-lice, shall be considered to have quit his employment voluntarily and his seniority and employment rights shall thereupon be terminated. When any such notice is bent to any employee by registered letter a copy thereof shall be sent concurrently to the Union.
12.9	One employee, who may be elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union, upon proper notice to be agreed upon by management, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay not to exceed the life of this agreement. Upon one week’s notice of his desire to again return to work for the Company, he shall be placed on his job previously held, or one of equal pay, without loss of seniority, provided he is physically fit and capable of performing the work.
— 23 —
Leave of absence under this clause will by granted by management in writing.
12.10	Subject to Clause 12.11, if an employee is absent from work because of sickness or accident, he shall not lose his seniority rights and shall also return to the position held prior to his absence, or to one of equal rating, provided he is capable of performing former duties. In the case of such absence it shall be the duty of each employee so absent to notify the Company of the reasons for absence and how long he expects his absence will last. The employee will be further required to update the Company on his medical status whenever his medical status changes, and in any event at least once per month.
12.11	The Company may terminate employees on W.S.I.B. benefits or absent due to non occupational sickness or accidents who have been absent from work for a continuous period for two (2) years plus one (1) day or more but subject to the following conditions;
(a)	any employee so terminated will be entitled to and the Company will continue their benefits package for a three (3) month period from the date of termination;
(b)	any such employee who has been employed by the Company for a period of ten (10) years or more (including disability or WSIB time) will receive an additional one month of benefits coverage for each full year of employment completed over and above the first ten years to a maximum of seven extra months.
(c)	the maximum entitlement will be ten (10) months extension based on the above criteria.
The provisions of this Clause 12.11 are subject to the provisions of the Workplace Safety Insurance Act and the Human Rights Code.
— 24 —
12.12	Where an employee within the bargaining unit accepts a position outside the unit, plant seniority shall be maintained for six (6) months (or nine (9) months if transferred out of the bargaining unit prior to ratification of this agreement), at which time it will be determined by the Company if he or she is to return to the bargaining unit. An employee in an non-bargaining unit position as at ratification who is transferred to the bargaining unit and who was hired prior to March 1, 1983 will retain his or her full seniority. Company employees who have never been part of the bargaining unit can only be transferred into the bargaining unit as a new employee.
12.13	Shift preference for the same work will be determined by seniority except for the starting up of a new line where training is required. In this case exceptions to the seniority privilege will apply for six (6) weeks unless determined otherwise by the parties. An employee must work in the branch department and have performed the same work for three (3) consecutive months before he can exercise his right under this clause, also, the employee must have worked the consecutive previous three (3) months on the shift that he desires to leave.
PART TIME
12.14	Part-time employees are employees who are scheduled for twenty-four (24) hours or less in a calendar week, and, notwithstanding any other provision of this collective agreement, are not entitled to the provisions of Articles 10, 11, 12.1-12.13, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24, Schedule “A”, Memorandum of Agreement - “B”, Appendix “A” - Article 12 of the collective agreement except as follows:
(a)	Par-time employees will be eligible for public holiday pay for their scheduled hours on such holiday provided that they report for work on their regularly scheduled work-day before and after the holiday.
— 25 —
(b)	Part-time employees with one year's service or more will be eligible for vacations and vacation pay as set forth in the Employment Standards Act of Ontario.
(c)
A part time employee will be paid the same wage rate as a full time employee performing the same
j°b.
12.15	The Company agrees that it will not lay off any existing full time employee for the purpose of replacing such full time employee with a multiple number of part-time employees.
12.16	(a) No employee hired prior to October 31, 1998,
shall be assigned to the par-time classification. This does not prohibit full time employees from applying for a part time job posting and being accepted as part time should they elect to do so. If they are accepted as part-time they will assume par-time status and will only be entitled to the provisions of the Collective Agreement set out herein as applicable to part time employees.
(b)	Part-time employees can exercise their seniority only amongst other part-time employees for the purpose of maximizing their hours within the twenty-four (24) hour qualification subject to their ability to perform the available work.
(c)	Seniority shall be based on the last date of hire.
(d)	The twenty-four (24) hour maximum qualification for part-time status is based on a three month average to be calculated at March 31. June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year. The hours used in the calculation shall exclude those hours assigned to replace vacations and absences due to sickness / accident.
(e)	Part time employees will be entitled to single coverage benefits after they have completed their pro— 26 —
bationary period, less Weekly Indemnity and dental benefits, upon satisfying the waiting period.
(f)	Part time employees shall have the right to apply for a full time posting but will be given no preference over any other inside candidate but will be given preference, if qualified over an outside candidate.
(g)	Part time employees hired by the Company shall be considered as probationary employees until they have completed seven hundred and twenty (720) hours worked, during which time they may be discharged or disciplined for any reason within the Company’s discretion. The Company may not discharge the employee for purposes of enforcing additional probationary period. Upon completion of the seven-hundred and twenty (720) hours worked, the employee shall be either discharged or placed on the part time seniority list as of the date of the commencement of his probationary period.
12.17	Any additional work required on any given day that cannot be handled by either full time or part time employees scheduled that day will be offered to qualified full time employees available at work on that day before any part time employees are called in.
ARTICLE 13 -VACATIONS
13.1	Vacations will be based on service with the Company computed to July 1st in the year in which the vacation is to be taken.
13.2	All employees on the Company’s payroll for a period of less than twelve (12) months prior to July 1st in any year shall be entitled to vacation pay at the rate of 4% of such employee’searnings during the twelve (12) months immedi-
— 27 —
ately preceding July 1st in that year in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
13.3	Employees on the Company’s payroll as of July 1st in any year who have one (1) year or more of service as of July 1st shall be entitled to two (2) weeks’ vacation and shall receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent to 4% of such employee’s total earnings during the twelve months (12) immediately preceding July 1st in that year.
13.4	Employees on the Company’s payroll as of July 1st in any year who have live (5)years or more of service as of July 1st shall be entitled to three (3) weeks’ vacation and shall receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent to 6% of such employee’s total earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st in that year.
13.5	Employees on the Company’s payroll as of July 1stin any year who have ten (10) years or more of service as of July 1st shall be entitled to four (4)weeks’ vacation and shall receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent to 8% of such employee’s total earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st in that year.
13.6	Employees on the Company’s payroll as of July 1st in any year who have twenty (20) years or more of service as of July 1st shall be entitled to five (5)weeks’ vacation and shall receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent to 10% of such employee’s total earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st in that year.
13.7	Only employees on the Company’s payroll who have twenty-five (25) years or more of service as of January 29, 1999, and are currently entitled to six (6) weeks vacation and who receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent of 12% of such employees prior year’s earnings, shall continue to receive said entitlement. This entitlement shall not increase or decrease for the duration of this collective agreement.
13.8	Total earnings shall include regular pay, overtime pay
-28 —
and other premiums, but exclude vacation pay previously paid, W.S .I.B. payments and any other amounts not received directly from the Company.
13.9	An employee who is discharged or quits without notice shall receive, with his last pay before leaving theplant, vacation allowance in accordance with the Employment StandardsAct. An employee who resigns after giving one (1) week’s notice shall receive vacation pay in accordance with his entitlement, i.e. 4%, 6%, 8%, 10% or 12%.
13.10	(a) Vacations may be granted at any time subject to
the demands of the business but the Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacations at times requested by employees, in order of seniority all employees shall select their vacations prior to February 28 of each year and the department vacation list shallbe posted by March 15 of each year. Vacation scheduled must be taken and cannot be cancelled.
(b) Vacation of four (4) consecutive weeks:
Although three (3) weeks is the maximum allowable vacation to be taken in any vacation year during prime months (June, July, August and September), employees with the required seniority may be able to take up to four (4)weeks vacation during these months. However, in order to get this time the employee must meet the following criteria:
•	Requestfor this time must be made and confirmed in writing.
•	Request for this time must be made prior to Feb. 28th of the vacation year.
•	An employee will only be allowed this benefit once in a five (5)year period.
•	If more than one eligible employee applies for this benefit for a given period, determi-
— 29 —
nation as to who will get this time will be made on a seniority basis.
13.11	(a) Employees shall take their vacations in the year
in which they become eligible for it. Vacations shall not be accumulated from year to year.
(b)	Employees that are eligible for two (2) weeks or more of vacation time must take a minimum of two (2) weeks vacation in the calendar year.
(c)	Vacation pay will be paid consistent with the number of weeks of vacation taken.
(d)	Employees who have not taken their vacation time off by September 1 st in any calendar year will receive their vacation payment owing in the first full week of September.
13.12	If a paid plant holiday falls within an employee’s vacation period, the Company will either allow the employee concerned a compensatory day’s holiday with pay or make payment for the holiday.
13.13	The company agrees to pay Vacation Pay on separate cheque or by separate deposit.
ARTICLE 14 - MISCELLANEOUS
14.1	Present laundry service for employees shall be maintained.
Leave of Absence
14.2	When an employee’s personal affairs make it desirable for him to be relieved temporarily from Company duties, leave of absence without pay beyond regular vacation to which an employee is entitled, may be granted for good and sufficient reasons, provided all vacation credits have been exhausted. No leave of absence will be considered from June to September, inclusive, unless compelling personal circumstances can be established. Seniority shall accumulate during a leave of absence.
— 30 —
14.3	Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing any employee to take another position temporarily, to tty out new ventures, or to venture into business for himself.
14.4	Leave of absence, before being granted, must be requested in writing and confirmed in writing by the Company.
14.5	The Company will provide the employees with sharpened tools. In the event that the tools have not been sharpened, then the Company will allow the employee reasonable time for the sharpening of the tools.
14.6	The Company will allow employees adequate relief as well as necessary time for changing clothing or equipment necessitated by a change in working conditions
14.7	Bereavement Pay
(a)	In case of death in the immediate family, an employee who has acquired seniority will be allowed up to three (3) consecutive work days off without loss of pay, provided the days off ate his scheduled working days and provided the employee attends the funeral.
For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be one of the following: wife, husband, daughter, son, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law,father-in-law, grandmother,grand-father and grandchildren.
The Company reserves the right to require satisfactory proof of the bereavement as a condition of providing bereavement pay as prescribed in this Article. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall accept reasonable reasons from employees who are unable to provide proof if required by the Company.
(b)	A seniority employee will be allowed leave with pay for the day of the funeral of a member of the
— 31 —
immediate family if the employee is unable to attend the funeral.
(c) An employee who attends the funeral of a sister-in-law or brother-in-law shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay at his regular rate for the day of the funeral. Such payment will only be made if the day of the funeral is the employee’s regular work day.
14.8	Injury Shift Guarantee
An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for hours he would have worked but were necessarily lost on the day on which the accident occurred and/or up to three (3) subsequent absences within six (6) weeks of the date of the accident if, as a result of such injury, he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department but, if such is not possible, then by a Company Representative. Amounts received under W.S.I.A. for such time shall be deducted from benefits due under this section.
14.9	Company Supplied Equipment
(a) The Company will furnish employees with seniority, knives, steels, oilskins, whetstones, scabbards, aprons, rubber gloves, and rubber boots specified by the Company as required for work in accordance with the following:
(i)	New employees will be charged for the above tools but will be reimbursed after their probationary period.
(ii)	Employees must return worn or damaged tools and equipment before being supplied with replacements. Failing to return such worn or damaged tools and equipment, the employee will be charged for the full replacement value.
— iZ —
(iii)	An employee who attempts to return another employee’s tools or equipment for replacement purposes will be subject to instant dismissal.
(b)	Launderable work clothing, gloves, hairnets and head coverings specified by the Company a s required for work will be supplied to the employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and, except with permission, shall not be removed from the Company’s premises and must be returned when worn out or upon separation of the employee. Clothing not returned will be paid for by the employee. The Company will make the necessary arrangements for the laundering of washable clothing.
(c)	Rubberized Safety Boots will be governed by the following:
(i)	Employees must at all times during working hours wear Rubberized Safety Boots that comply with the established guidelines as set out by the Company for use in the facility. Such boots must be properly treaded and otherwise be in satisfactory condition. Any employee who is not wearing such boots is subject to being sent home without pay, until proper boots are obtained.
(ii)	The Company will stock at least one style of Rubberized Safety Boot, as it selects from time to time. in standard sizes. An employee who has completed his probationaryperiod prior to January 1st in any year may elect to obtain his Rubberized Safety Boots from the Company, from such stock, for such year. Alternatively, such employee may elect to be provided with an annual allowanceof one
— 33 —
hundred and ten (1 10) dollars (one hundred and thirty (130) dollars for employees classified as freezer personnel) for his own purchase of Rubberized Safety Boots that comply with established guidelines as aforesaid. Such allowance will be paid in two equal installments, one installment to be paid with the last regular paycheque in January, the other with the last regular paycheck in July. It is understood and agreed that only employees who have actively worked for the Company in the six-month period prior to the payment of a boot allowance installment will be eligible for such installment. New hires and employees who have not completed their probationary period by January 1st in any year will not be entitled to an election and will he required to obtain their Rubberized Safety Boots for such year from Company stock, unless otherwise agreed by the Company. Employees entitled to an election of an allowance in any year must make such election on or before January 10th of such year, failing which, Rubberized Safety Boots must be obtained from Company stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, maintenance employees who elect an allowance will be entitled to use a portion of such allowance for the purchase of safety footwear used in hot work (welding, etc.).
14.10	Employees who are required to work 1014 hours or more on any day will be provided with a meal or granted a meal allowance of $7.00.”
14.11	Tradesman or other skilled trades workers with one (1) or more years of seniority in the mechanical department shall receive a tool allowance as follows:
— 34
Maintenance Classification Group
“7” _ “11” (per wage Schedule “B”)	- $180.00 per year
All other Maintenance Classification
Groups	- $100.00 per year
This tool allowance shall be used for the purposes of replacing broken or worn out tools, or to purchase tools that are necessary to perform the jobs to which they are assigned.
This tool allowance shall be paid in advance in the month of January; employees who leave the service of the Company before December 31 shall reimburse the Company cn a prorated basis.
14.12	Pregnancy/Parental Leave
Leave of absence because of pregnancy or parental leave, including for adoption, will be granted in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
14.13	Appearance in Court
An employee summoned to appear or required to serve jury duty, or one who has been served with a subpoena to appear as a witness, shall be paid the difference between what he would have earned for his scheduled hours at his paid rate and the court fee received. Employees should notify their foreman as soon as possible after receipt of notice of selection for jury duty or after receipt of the subpoena to appear as a witness.
The Company may require the employee to furnish a certificate of service from an officer of the court before making any payment under this section. The employee will come to work during those regular hours that he is not required to attend court.
14.14	The Company will observe a two (2) minute silence for all employees on “Remembrance Day”.
14.15	The Company agrees to contribute seven hundred -
— 35 —
fifty (750)dollars to the UFCW Leukemia Fund on November 1st of each year of the contract
14.16	The cost of printing the collective agreement will be shared on a 50/50 basis. Both Union & Company logos to appear on cover. Printing to be done by ‘Thistle Printing’.
ARTICLE 15 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
15.1	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices on machinery and other devices deemed necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. All such protective devices shall remain the property of the Company.
15.2	The Company and the Union will each appoint respective members to a safety committee (not more than two (2) members from each party). The committee’s function will be to assist the management in promoting safety and industrial hygiene in the plant and carrying out a reasonable accident prevention program by such means as periodic plant inspection, etc.
15.3	The Company will provide up to ten (10) days per year with pay for Union representation to attend safety seminars, etc. - not more than two (2) people from one unit and not more than five (5) days for each individual, inclusive of time required for certification of safety committee certified members, on the recommendation of the safety committee.
ARTICLE 16 -
LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
16.1	The parties will establish a Labour Management Committee consisting of not more than four (^representatives from each side. Once established the Committee will determine its own agenda and procedure of operation. This Committee shall meet quarterly.
— 36 —
ARTICLE 17 - UNION NOTICES
17.1	The Company will provide the Union with a bulletin board at each plant. The Company will permit Union officers who are employed by the Company to post notices ofUnion meetings and other matters of interest to Union members, provided all such notices are first approved by the Company. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Company will also provide the Plant Chairperson with a lock and key for the bulletin boards.
ARTICLE 18-
HEALTH, WELFAREAND PENSION PLAN
18.1	The Company and the Union agree to the Health and Welfare Plan as follows:
The Company agrees to pay the premium for the Health and Welfare Plan referred to in the agreement, which provides the following benefits to all eligible employees with seniority in accordance with the rules and regulations of the carrier.
Life Insurance and A.D. & D. - $30,000.00
Weekly Accident and Sickness Benefits (payable from the 1 st work day of accident or, hospitalization or from the 4th work day of illness for a period of two weeks and from the 18th week until the 37th week inclusive):
The weekly benefit will be equal to 70% of weekly earnings subject to the maximum maintained by the Employment Insurance Act, as determined at time of disability.
NOTE:
Employment Insurance Sickness Benefits will be claimed by the employee from the 3rd week to the 17th week inclusive.
Major Medical Plan (employee and dependants)
The Company agrees to provide a major medical plan subject to the following:
— 31-
A generic drug card will be provided to all seniority employees, subject to generic substitution and other customary exclusions.
$10.00 per year deductible (single) Paying 100% of
balance of
$20.00 per year deductible (family) eligible expenses
Vision Care Plan (employees and dependants)
$140.00 maximum per person each twenty-four (24) months.
The coverage on the major medical plan is limited to:
(a)	ward hospital coverage;
(b)	a maximum of $7.00 for any dispensing fees charged and claimed as part of eligible expenses;
(c)	with respect to dental plan, an employee may only claim for recall exams and x-rays once every 9 months;
(d)	coverage for Physiotherapy is capped at $500 per calendar year for the employee and each dependant.
(e)	Total coverage for orthotics shall not exceed $600 per family every twenty-four (24) months. The orthotics must be prescribed by a physician.
Dental Plan (employeesand dependants)
(a)	“The Company agrees to contribute twenty-six (26) cents per hour for all hours paid and worked, for seniority employees, to the United Food & Commercial Workers Trusteed Dental Plan Ontario (“Dental Plan”). Hours paid and worked is defined as regular hours, overtime hours (hour for hour), vacation, paid holidays, bereavement and jury duty to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week and/or 2080 hours per annum per employee, but shall not include Weekly Indemnity or Workers’ Safety and Insurance payments. The Company agrees to continue to pay applicable — 38 —
taxes on contributions required by law crby the signed Participation Agreement.” Effective November 1, 2005 the contribution will increase to twenty-eight (28) cents per hour. Effective November 1,2006, the contribution will increase to thirty (30) cents per hour.
(b)	The Company agrees to sign a “Participation Agreement” and supply any other relevant documents, forms, reports or information that are reasonably required by the Trustees of the Dental plan.
(c)	The Company shall forward all contributions, together with a list of all seniority employees, and the number of hours paid and worked for each employee in each reporting period, within fifteen (15) days following the end of each of the Company’s four (4) week accounting period.
Pension Plan
(A) (i) The Company agrees to contribute to the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan (“pension plan”) forty-five (45) cents per hour for all hours paid and worked for seniority employees. Hours paid and worked is defined as regular hours, overtime hours (hour for hour), vacation, paid holidays, bereavement and jury duty to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week and/or 2000 hours per annum per employee, but shall not include Weekly Indemnity or Workers’ Safety and Insurance payments. Effective April 5, 2005, the contribution will increase to fifty-five (55) cents per hour, effective November 1, 2005, the contribution will increase to sixty-five (65) cents per hour, effective April 1, 2006, the contribution will increase to seventy-five (75) cents — 39 —
per hour, effective November 1, 2006, the contribution will increase to eighty-five (85) cents per hour and effective April 1, 2007, the contribution will increase to ninety-five (95)cents per hour.
(ii)	The Company agrees to sign a “Participation Agreement” and supply any other relevant documents, forms, reports or information, in a form acceptable to the Company, that are reasonably required by the Trustees of the pension plan for the administration of the plan. The Company shall forward all contributions together with a list of all full time employees and the number of hours paid and worked for each employee in each reporting period, within fifteen (15) days following the end of the Company’s four (4)week accounting period.
(iii)	Beyond payment of the required contribution as set out in paragraph (A)(i) above, the Union acknowledges and agrees that the Company has no responsibility for any costs or expenses associated with the maintenance and administration of the pension plan, except any late remittance charges that the Trustees are required to levy on contributions not remitted on time, including without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the filing of any Information Returns required by the Pension Commission.
(iv)	Any and all terms and conditions of this agreement regarding the pension plan are subject to the provisions of the Pension Benefits Act and any other applicable legislation, regulations and any orders or directions of any regulatory authorities to which the parties are subject.
— 40 —
ARTICLE 19 - WEEKLY PAY GUARANTEE
19.1	The Company guarantees to each employee with seniority pay equivalent to thirty-seven (37) hours of work at the employee’s regular rate of pay for each week Of work. However, notwithstanding the Articles of this Collective Agreement, the Company may, for each shift in a department, reduce the weekly guarantee to thirty-two (32) hours to a maximum of ten (10) weeks per year.
Such guarantee shall be reduced by any or all of the following:
(a) For every hour worked and or paid, hour for
hour.
(c)	For all time lost by the employee due to lateness or absence from work.
(d)	For refusing to perform the work assigned, in accordance with 19.2 below.
19.2	It is understood that the Company shall be free to distribute work within all departments and to transfer employees from one department to another, provided the work does not involve extreme changes in working conditions.
19.3	The weekly pay guarantee will only apply to employees hued prior to October 31, 1998.
ARTICLE20 - JOBPOSTING
20.1	(a) When a permanent job vacancy occurs within a
branch department, employees within that branch department shall be permitted at their request to be considered for the vacancy under the conditions outlined in the provisions of Section 12.2. When a vacancy within a branch department cannot be satisfactorily filled from within the branch department affected, the Company will post notice of vacancy throughout the plant for a period of three (3) working days and employeeswill be — 41 -
considered under the conditions outlined in the provisions of Section 12.2. Only the original plus three (3) subsequent vacancies will be posted. All permanent job vacancies to be filled should be posted within fifteen (15)working days.
In the event that an employee is absent due to sickness, accident or vacation when a vacancy is posted. the Steward may apply on behalf of such employee so that the employee may be considered for the position, provided that he or she returns to work within a reasonable period of time. The employee on leave of absence shall be excluded from the job posting clause.
The Company will not be required to consider an employee who has been transferred as a result of the provisions of this clause within the previous six (6)months.
New employees will be excluded from the job posting clause for the first year of their employment.
Employees with less than three (3) years' seniority with the Company can only bid for a job opening in his group or in a group of a higher pay than their own.
(b) A successful applicant will be given an opportunity of fulfilling the duties of the new position during a reasonable trial period of thirty (30)working days. If the employee fails to meet the requirements of the job at any time during the trial period, he will be returned to his formerjob."
20.2	Temporary Vacancies
a) Temporary vacancies created as a result of the change in production or introduction of a new process expected to be at least thirteen (13) weeks — 42 —
in duration will be posted. If they exist beyond twenty-six (2 6) weeks, they will be posted as permanent position. However, the incumbent will be given the first opportunity to accept the aforementioned position. Only one subsequent vacancy will be posted as a result of the foregoing and upon completion of this process, the employees will revert to their original positions.
b) If temporary vacancies are created as a result of absenteeism due to sickness or accident, and the vacancy is expected to be at least thirteen (13) weeks in duration, notice of such vacancieswill be posted on the Company bulletin board. Only one subsequent vacancy will be posted as a result of the foregoing and upon completion of this process. the employees will revert to their original positions.
ARTICLE 21-
EMPLOYMENT AGE AND RETIREMENT
21.1	No person will be employed who is less than the minimum applicable legal age prescribed by the Occupational Health & Safety Act.
21.2	“Employees who attain sixty-five (65) years of age shall retire on the last day of the month in which they attain sixty-five (65) years of age.”
ARTICLE 22 - STUDENT EMPLOYMENT
The Company may employ students for summer and other school vacation periods and also students who are in co-op programs with the following limitations.
a) Students other than those in co-op programs may only be hired between April 1st and September 30th and for a maximum of two weeks at the Easter or Christmas Holiday period unless otherwise agreed by the Union.
— 43 —
b) No more than three (3) co-op students will be employed and each individual co-op student cannot work more than four (4) months per annum unless otherwise agreed by the Union.
Student employees will not acquire seniority rights or recall rights and may be terminated at the sole discretion of the Company at any time.
Student employees will pay Union dues but are not entitled to the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement other than payment in accordance with the following:
In the first calendar year	$ 9.00 per hour
In the second consecutive calendar year $ 9.50 per hour
In the third consecutive calendar year
and consecutive years thereafter	$10.00 per hour
ARTICLE 23 - SKILLS ENHANCEMENT
Employees may be offered training to gain the skills and experience necessary to enable them to be pre-qualified for potential future opportunities requiring greater skills.
Where the Company creates such training opportunities they will be posted and employees will be selected for the opportunity in accordance with the provisions of Article 12.2 of this agreement.
Employees selected for training opportunities will be paid at their current job rate on a straight time basis regardless of when the training is offered.
ARTICLE 24 - GOOD ATTENDANCE BONUS
Any employee on the payroll for a full calendar year with good attendance and who is not absent for more than five (5) days in that year will receive an attendance bonus of $750.00 gross. to be paid by the end of January of the following year.
— 44 —
Days of absence due to vacation or approved leave of absence pursuant to Article 7.3(b), 14.2, 14.7, 14.12 cr 14.13 of the collective agreement will not count as days absent for the purpose of this provision.
ARTICLE 25 - ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT
The Company agrees to pay two economic adjustments of $150, the 1st adjustment paid within two weeks of ratification for employees actively employed on the date of ratification and the 2nd adjustment paid the 1st week of January 2006, for employees actively employed on both the date of ratification and January 1 st, 2006,
ARTICLE 26 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
26.1	This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect fromNovember lst2004 to and including October 31, 2007, and as it may he extended as required by the terms of the Labour Relations Act, 1995, and from year to year thereafter unless either party gives notice in writing to the other parly of termination or of amendment at any time within ninety (90) calendar days prior to the date of expiration of this Agreement.
26.2	During the period of negotiations resulting from any of the provisions above, this agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
45
Signed this 29 th day of March, 2005.
UNITED FOOD COMMERCIALWORKERS
QUALITY MEAT PACKERS LIMITED
APPENDIX “A’
The following are the changes or additions applicablewhen applying this consolidation to 'Toronto Abattoirs Limited.
ARTICLE 7 - SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES
7.2	The union agrees to appoint or elect a maximum of eight (8) stewards, including one (1) Chief Steward.
ARTICLE 8-WAGES
8.1	All employees will be classified in accordance with the Classification Schedule included in this Agreement as Schedule B and be paid at the rate assigned for the classification pursuant to the Wage Schedule applicable to them.
ARTICLE 12 - SENIORITY
12.1	The seniority of employees of the previous company shall date from October 1, 1960.
12.6 For the purpose of Article 12.6, the Departments of the Company are as follows:
1.	Casing/Offal/Inedible
2.	Stockyard
3.	Kill Floor
4.	Maintenance
5.	Sanitation
SCHEDULE “B”
The Classification “Appendix B” which forms part of this Appendix applies to Toronto Abattoirs Limited.
47
Appendix “B”
Wage & Group Schedule
Effective November 1, 2004 to October31, 2007
Class		Date of	Nov. 1	Nov. 1
	Current	-Ratification-	2005	2006
1	$10.55	$11.45	$11.80	$12.15
2	$11.00	$11.45	$11.80	$12.15
3			$12.95	$13.30
4			$14.40	$14.75
5	$14.90	$15.45	$15.80	$16.15
6	$15.90	$16.45	$16.80	$17.15
7	$19.50	$20.55	$20.90	$21.25
8	$20.75	$21.80	$22.15	$22.50
9	$21.45	$22.50	$22.85	$23.20
10	$22.20	$23.25	$23.60	$23.95
11	$22.95	$24.00	$24.35	$24.70
48
Appendix “C” Job Classifications
Toronto Abattoirs Limited - Toronto. Ontario
Hog Slaughter
Job
Bung Cutting Machine
Clean Front Feet
Clean Liver And Stamp Est. #
Clean Tenders
Cut Back Fat And Umbilical Chord
Cut Ears For Pet Food
Drive Hogs
Drop Heads
Drop Tongues / Plucks
Eviscerate & H-bone Cutter (Rotation)
Feed And Control Butina
Feed Butina
Gam Table
Held Rail
Hog Receiver
Neck Washer
Operate Brisket Saw
Operate Hog Splitting Saw
Pop Kidneys For Inspection
Re Liver \ Feed Casing Room
Re: Umbilical Chord/opening Belly
Relief Person (Up To Group 6)
Relief Person (Up To Group 3)
TAL
Wage Grp.
4
3
2
3
4 3
3
4 6 6
5 2
4
6
5
3
5
6
4
4
5
6 3
49
Toronto Abattoirs Limited - Toronto. Ontario
Hog Slaughter (Continued)
Job
Remove Gland From Jaw Remove Heads Remove Heart And Lung Remove Kidneys Remove Leaf Fat Remove Skirt Meat Remove Spinal Cord Remove Stick Wound Scalding Tank Operator Scrape Leaf Lard From Belly Service Chill Room Shackling
Shave-direct Hogs To Dressing Sticker
Switch (Feed Dressing Line)
Trolley Washer
Ttdc Data Terminal Control/Tattoo Entry (Rotation)
TAL
Wage Grp.
4
3
3 2
4 3 2
3
5
4
5
5 2
6 3 3 6
Head Boning Table
TAL
Job	Wage
Bone Heads	3
Feed Jaw Breaker	2
Scalp Heads And Pull Snouts	3
Trim Ears	3
Trim Snouts	3
Trim Tongues	3
50 —
Toronto Abattoirs Limited - Toronto, Ontario
Casing Room
Job	TAL Wage Grp.
Cut Bungs	2
Feed Bung Flushing Machine	2
Feed Runners	3
Flush Bungs	2
Inedible Products	1
Operate Casing Machines	5
Product In Drums And Iced	2
Pull Bungs	2
Pull Runners (Airknife)	4
Pull Spleens	3
Pull Stomachs	3
Relief Person (Up To Group 3)	3
Relief Person (Up To Group 5)	5
Salt Runners In The Drums	3
Trim Diaphragms	3
Trim Stomachs	3
Trimmiing Bungs/Remove Uteri	4
Turn Bungs Inside Out	2
Wash Stomachs	2
Casing Cooler
Job
Pack Pancreas, Bungs, Skirt Meat Product In Drams To B.R T.
TAL
Wage Grp.
2
2
51
Toronto Abattoirs Limited - Toronto. Ontario
Offal Room
Job
Pack& Scale (Livers, Ears, Snouts, Etc.) Palletize And Scanning Prepare Boxes Scale And Strapping
TAL
Wage Grp.
3
3 1
4
Lard Room / Inedible
TAL
Job	Wage Grp.
Inedible (Loading Waste)	2
Operate Lard Room	5
Pick Up Inedible And Bones Oper.	4
Waste Water And Mucosa	4
Quality Meat Packers Limited - Toronto, Ontario
Cutting Room
QMP
Job	Wage
Checking Hams	4
Checking Shoulders	4
Cutting Hock & Front Foot	3
Grade & Split New Yorks	3
Grading Bellies	3
Grading Loins	3
Ham Sorting Operator	3
Injector Operator	4
Lifting Side Ribs	5
— 52-
Quality Meat Packers Limited - Toronto, Ontario
Cutting Room (Continued)
Job
Lining Up Bellies (Rotation)
Lining Up Hams Lining Up Hind Feed Lining Up Shoulders Loin Puller Operator Pack Butts Pack Picnics Packing Back Fat Packing Back Rind Packing Hams Packing Loins
Packing Side Ribs (Rotation)
Pushing Chill Hogs
Rem Neck Bones ,NYK Fat & Jowl
Rem Side Ribs Turning Bellies (Rotation)
Removing Lug Fat
Removing Tails
Setting Up Room
SettingUp Room & Serv. Back Up Lining up Middles
Supply Ham Sorter And Control Chutes
Tanking Loins
Trim Butts
Trim Picnics
Trimming Bellies
Trimming Loins
QMP Wage Grp. 5 4 3
3
4 1 1 1 1 1 1 2
3
5 2 5 5 1
4 4 2 1 4 4
4
5
53
Quality Meat Packers Limited -Toronto, Ontario
Cutting Room (Continued)
Job
Trimming Rib In Rind On Bellies (Rotation)
Turning Bellies
Vac-pack Machine Operator
Weighing Skids
Wizard Trim Back Fat 60 %
B.B.Q. Side Ribs (Costco)
Bagging Cartons
Boning Hocks & Relief (Butcher)
Boning Rough Picnics Boning Tenderloin End(Costco)
Cleaning Room
Cleaning Condensation
Cleaning Held Product
Cutting Fat
Cutting Neck Bones
Cutting Packing Hind Feet
Driving In The Hallway
Driving In The Room
Feed Skinning Machines (Nyk, Jowl)
Floor Scale Operator Line Cartons To Scale Line Up Cartoons Gas Flush Making Cartons Malung Combos Operate Gasflush Machine Operate Scale
— 54 —
QVIP
Wage Grp,
5
1
3
2
3
5
1
5
5
5
1
1
5
1
3
3
4 4 2 4 1 1 1 2
3
4
Quality Meat Packers Limited -Toronto, Ontario
Cutting Room (Continued)
Job
Pack Neck Fat Pack Nyk Fat Packing Belly Rind Packing Front Feet & Tails Paclung Gelatin Rinds Paclung Hocks Packing Neck Bones Palletizes (LOOps)
Pushing Fresh Hogs Relief Person (Up To Group 3) Relief Person (Up To Group 5) Scale Operators Selecting Hams (Pillers&usa) Sharpening Knives Trim Neck F at Trimming Costco Loins Trimming Front Feet Trimming Nyk Fat Wrapping Loins (Costco)
QMP Wage Grp. 1
1
1
1
1
1
1
3
3
3 5
4 2 3 3
5 3 3 1
Boning # 1 Loins
Job
Feather & Back Bones Feed Line (Rotation)
Loin Chine Bone Remover (Rotation)
QMP Wage Grp.
5
2
5
55
Quality Meat Packers Limited -Toronto, Ontario
Boning # 1 Loins (Continued)
QMP
Job	Wage Grp.
Packing Back Ribs	1
Packing Backends	1
Pulling Tender	1
Relief Person (Up To Group 3)	3
Relief Person (Up To Group 5)	5
Remove Tender	5
Select Backs & Remove Ends	5
SelectPse	5
Setting Up Room	1
Setting Up Room & Serv. B/up	4
Tail Bones And Back Ribs	5
Trimming Backs	5
Trimming Tenderloins	3
Wrapping Backs	1
Wrapping Tenders	1
Boning # 2 New York's
Job
Boning Shoulders Feed Line (Rotation)
Machine Operator
Relief Person (Up To Group 5)
Relief Person (Up To Group 3)
Remove Capicola
Setting Up Room
Trim
QMP Wage Grp.
5....
2
3
5
3
5
1
5
56
Quality Meat Packers Limited - Toronto, Ontario
Boning # 2 New York's (Continued)
Job
Wizard Knives Wrap Capicola Wrap Shoulders
QVTP Wage Grp.
4
1
1
Boning # 3 Hams
Job
Boning Hams
Defatting Hams
Inspect & Final Trimmer
Relief Person (Up To Group 5)
Relief Person (Up To Group 3)
Setting Up Room
Setting Up Room & Service
Skinning & Feed Line
Trim Hams
Wizard Knives
QMP Wage Grp. 5 5 5 5
3 1
4 3
5 3
Fresh Chill Pork
Job
Unwrap Meat Wrap & Pack Operate Machine Scale
Service & Palletize
QMP Wage Grp.
2
2
2
4
4
57
Quality Meat Packers Limited - Toronto, Ontario
Shipping Receiving
Job
Picker
Shipper / Receiver
QMP Wage Grp.
3
3
Job
Chemicals Dispenser Day Cleaner
Department Cleaner (Night)
Packaging & Support
Job
8600 Cryovac Operator
Cleaning Boning & Pack. Rooms
Forming Cartons
Packing Offal’s
Packing Trims
Packing Vac Products
Palletize
Rework Leakers & Relief Scale & Label Trims Scale Offal’s Scale Vac Pack Products Service Person Supply Dry Goods Tanking & Transfer Bones Tanking Trims
-58-
QMP Wage Grp.
4
3
4
QMP Wage Grp.
4
1
1
1
1
1
2
3
4 4 4 4 4 4 1
		Maintenance
Job Description	Group	Requirements and Duties
Electrician/Technician	11	Must hold a valid Ontario Electricial License. Develops machine and process control systems. Performs PLC programming, repairs and troubleshooting on all electrical and electromechanical related devices.
Electrician - Licensed	10	Must hold a valid Ontario Electrical License. Performs repairs and troubleshooting on all electrical and electromechanical related devices.
Millwright	9	Must hold a valid Ontario Millwright License. Primarily Responsible for maintenance of production equipment.
Refrigeration Mechanic	9	Must hold valid Ontario Refrigeration Mechanics’ License and/or Valid Operating Engineers Certificate.
Plumber - Licensed	9	Must hold a valid Ontario Plumbers’ License.
Electrician - Non-Licensed	8	Same duties as a Licensed Electrician. Can move up to the higher group with a valid License.
Production Mechanic	8	Same duties as Millwright except without a valid License. Can move up to the higher group with a valid License.
General Mechanic	7	Duties include Fabrication,Welding, Pipe Fitting, Plumbing,
Maintenance (Continued)
Job Description	Group	Requirements and Duties
Building Trades	7	Includes Carpenters, Forming and Concrete, Bricklayers and Painters.
Mechanics Helper	3	Minimal Mechanical Knowledge.
Apprenticeship Program 1		The Apprentice must provide written documentation from the program coordinator that he/she has successfully completed their respective school term and has moved up to the next highest year of studies within the program. -1st year 70% of Group Rate.
OS 0 1		-	2nd year 80% of Group Rate. -	3rd year 90% of Group Rate. -4th year 95% of Group Rate.
The company reserves the right to modify the Job Requirements and /or duties for all existing jobs at Quality Meat Packers Limited and/or Toronto Abattoirs Limited and any new Job positions created within the Company.
Letter of Agreement
Letter of Agreement for Historical Reference Between:
United Food and Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175 (the “Union”)
-	and -
Quality Meat Packers Limited/
Toronto Abattoirs Limited (the “Company”)
The following terms relating to the transfer of Company contributions and employee contributions from the pension plan existing prior to October 31, 1998, i.e. the Pension Plan for the Hourly Employees of Quality Meat Packers Limited and Toronto Abattoirs Limited (the “ Re-existing Pension Plan”), to the C.C.W.LP.P. pension plan for past service are conditional upon the Company and the Union both agreeing that such transfer can be effected reasonably. Such agreement must be reached by both parties on or before April 30, 1999. Failing such agreement the funds in the Pre-existing Pension Plan will remain in such plan.
(i)	Company contributions to the Re-existing Pension Plan up to and including December 31, 1998 will be transferred to the C.C.W.I.P.P. to be applied as past service credits, subject to the Pension Benefits Act and other applicable legislation, and provided that the parties and any regulatory authority to which the parties are subject agree.
(ii)	Employee’s contributions to the Pre-existing Pension Plan up to and including December 31, 1998 will be handled in the following manner:
a.	Will be transferred to C.C.W.I.P.P. to be applied as past service credits; or
b.	Will be kept in the Pre-existing Pension Plan and
—	61 —
withdrawn according to the regulations of the plan; or
c.	Will be rolled over to a locked in RRSP in the individual’s name; or
d.	Will be rolled over to the individual employee to be used in any form.
e.	All the above options will be subject to the agreement of the parties and any regulatory authorities to which the parties are subject, and will be subject to the Pension Benefit Act and any other applicable legislation.
For the Company	For the Union
Date
62
Memorandum of Agreement - " A
Between:
United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 743
- and -
Quality Meat Packers Limited/Toronto Abattoirs Limited
Without admission of liability on the part of any party, the following s£s out a tentative agreement between the union and the Management of Quality Meat Packers Limited/Toronto Abattoirs Limited to resolve the grievance regarding “Masks”.
The rule for wearing of masks properly over the nose, covering the mouth and nose, is recognized as reasonable. The general principle is that masks are to be worn on any job where an employee could or does have contact with exposed meat. Not limiting the above masks are required to be worn in the following areas:
1.	Tecumseth
a)	Chill Pork Packaging;
b)	All other areas, excluding the following positions:
hog pushers, main corridor floor scale, box makers, set-up prior to operation and final sanitizer, feed rfmtaa scale and strapping machinery, prep gas flush, gas flush operator, forming combos, stand-on power pallet machine outside room, palletizer, knife sharpener (outside of production rooms), night sanitation, clean condensation in cooler, weighing pallets, scale operator.
2.	Bramalea
a)	fully cooked packaging;
b)	sausage processing area
c)	marinated processing area
d)	but not in:
burger processing, bacon processing, shipping and receiving,
e)	sanitation and maintenance (unless working in the above areas)
The above does not prohibit the company from implementing the mask rule in any new areas where it may be deemed necessary. However, the union will be consulted in advance.
In arMitwi, the patties agree that the employees at the Bramalea location who lost wages as a result of the
&JB mw
Date
63
64
INDEX
Article Page
Address List........................................ 3.6	5
Agreement as it applies to Toronto Abattoirs....Appendix “A’ 47
Appearance in Court................................. 14.13	35
Assessments......................................... 3.2	4
Bereavement Pay.................................... 14.7	31
Company SuppliedEquipment.......................... 14.9	32
Duration cf Agreement................................ 26	45
EconomicAdjustment................................... 25	45
EmploymentAge andRetirement........................... 21	43
GoodAttendanceBonus.................................. 24	44
Health, Welfare and Pension Plan..................... 18	37
Hours of Work and Overtime........................... 10	14
Injury Shift Guarantee............................. 14.8	32
Job Classifications.............................Appendix “C” 49
Job Posting.......................................... 20	41
Labour ManagementCommittee........................... 16	36
Letter of Agreement “2” -HistoricalReference...................61
ManagementRights...................................... 4	5
Membership.......................................... 3.3	5
Memorandum of Agreement “A”....................................63
Miscellaneous........................................ 14	30
No Discrimination..................................... 5	6
No StrikesandNoLockouts............................... 6	6
Part Time........................................... 12.14	25
Payment cf Dues..................................... 3.1	3
Plant Holidays....................................... 11	17
Preface........................................................ 1
Pregnancy/Parental Leave............................ 14.12	35
Premium Pay........................................... 9	13
Purpose............................................... 2	3
Recognition........................................... 1	2
Safety and Health.................................... 15	36
Seniority............................................ 12	19
Settlementof Grievances............................... I	7
— 65 —
INDEX (Continued)
Skills Enhancement......
StudentEmployment.......
Union Notices...........
Union Security..........
Vacations...............
Wage k Group Schedule... Wages and Classifications. Weekly Pay Guarantee....
Article Page
23	44
22	43
17	37
3	3
13	27
Appendix “B” 48 8	13
19	41