COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT
between
Maple Leaf Meats Inc. 150 Bartor Road Weston, Ontario
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO-CLC Locals 175 and 633
Expiry Date: January 14,1999
00261 (06)
-i-
TABLE CF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 • RECOGNITION......................................   1
ARTICLE2-PREFERENCE............................................ 2
ARTICLE3-NO STRIKE-NOLOCK-OUT.................................. 2
ARTICLE 4- UNICN SECURITY...................................... 2
ARTICLE 5-GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION,........................... 3
ARTICLE6-STEWARDS.............................................. 5
ARTICLE 7- DISCRIMINATION...................................... 6
ARTICLE 8 • UNIFORMS AND TOOLS................................. 6
ARTICLE 9 • WORKERS' COMPENSATION.............................. 7
ARTICLE 10-HOURS OF WORK....................................... 7
ARTICLE 11-OVERTIME............................................ 8
ARTICLE 12-SHIFTPREMIUMS......................................  9
ARTICLE 13-RESTPERIODS......................................... 9
ARTICLE 14 - RECOGNIZEDHOLIDAYS................................ 9
ARTICLE 15 - VACATION......................................... 10
ARTICLE 16-SENIORITY.......................................... 10
ARTICLE 17-PROMOTION.......................................... 13
ARTICLE 18-DEMOTION........................................... 13
ARTICLE 19-LEAVE OF ABSENCE................................... 14
ARTICLE 20 - HEALTH AND WELFARE............................... 14
ARTICLE 21- BEREAVEMENT PAY................................... 17
ARTICLE 22- WORKING OCNDITICNS................................ 17
ARTICLE 23-UNION LABEL........................................ 17
-11 -
JITICLE 24-UNION SHOP CARDS................................. 17
ARTICLE25-CO-OPERATION....................................... I7
ARTICLE 26 - BASIC HOURLY RATECF PAY......................''ydg-')
ARTICLE 27 - TERM OP AGREEMENT............................
APPENDIX "A-l" AND "A-2" -BASIC HOURLYRATES OF PAY........... 20
"B"-PART-TIME EMPLOYEES............................. 21
APPENDIX "C"-HOURS CF WORK................................... 24
APPENDIX"D" -DRIVERS........................................  25
LBTTERS OF UNDERSTANDING.................................. 32-38
MEMORANDA OP AGREEMENT.................................... 39-40
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT between
Maple Leaf Meats Inc.
ISO Barter Road,
Weston, Ontario
(hereinafter called "the Company") -and-
UNTUD FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
AFL-CIO-CLC, Locals 175 and 633
Chartered By the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and
Butcher Workmen of North America, AFL-CIO-CLC
(hereinaftfl’ called"the Union")
WITNESSETH:
The Company and the Union hereto miiaUy agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Unfed Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 175 and 633, as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees ofthe Company in its plant in the Province of Ontario and £L buck drivers of the Company employed at and cut of Metropolitan Hrrnto, save and except foremen, si^ervisory pons above the tank of foremen or supavisory office, clerical and sales staff, plant protection persons and brokers. Part-time employees shall be covered by Articles of this Agreement as provided in Appendix "B".
1.02	The Company agreesnotto bargain individually or collectively vath its employees.
1.03	The Company shall employ in its plant only members in good standing in the Unicn.
1.04	The Union will be alvised of promotions of employees out of the bargaining nit If an employee is promoted to a position outside the bargaining unit for a period of mare ttm nine (9) nrn£te/the Company agrees that such person shall re-enter the bargaining unit as anew employee except he/she shall receive full credit for vacation entitlement.
1.05	Employees excluded Bon the bargaining unit wQ. not perform the work which is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except for training, or vise such work is for the purpose of iiwsti^fcuuor experimentation.
1.06	The Union recognizes teat the Qaipany has the exclusive right to manage the business provided, however, that any such exercise of this right which is in conflict with any of the provisions of the other Articles of this Collective Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance and arbitration procedures.
1.07	The Company agrees that if it becomes necessary to move any production line out of the Qartor Road Plant, the Qxt(any will meet with the Union, prior to the moving of such line.
-2-
ARTICLE 2 - PREFERENCE
2.01	The Company agrees dial when it requires additional full-time help it will, in the first instance, apply to the Union for same. Hie Union agrees in such event to supply such help. If, for any reason die Union fails to supply such help within twenty-four (24) hours from the time of such application, the Company may then obtain such help in the open market, provided, however, that such employees engaged in the open marketshall, within fifty (50) days worked from the date of their employment, become members of the Ihioi. The Company agrees to forward to the Union, month, a list of new employees with their starting date and basic hourly rate of pay and also a list of employees terminated.
ARTICLE 3 - NO STRIKE- NO LOCK-OUT
3.01	The Union and the Company agree tfa: there shall be no strikes or lock-outs as long as this agreement continues to operate.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY
4.01	Subject to the provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act, it is agreed that all employees covered by this Agreement shall become members and remain members of the Union in good standing as a condition of employment
402 The Company agrees ttet each employee, upon employment and anplfiticn of his/her probationary period of employment wi be required to sign an authorization card drecting the Company to deduct Union initiation fees and weekly dues from the first pay due and such dues weekly thereafter. Any such authorization shall take effect as of the next regular deduction date after it is received by the Company. The fees and dues shall be forwarded to the Union monthly by the 15th of the following ninth.
4.03	The Union shall inform the Company, by Written certification, of the amounts of weekly Union Dss according to the nest recent such certification received. Such cartifusfcim shall be given to the Company at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the effective date of any change.
4.04	The Company will, at the time of making such raiattuce hereunder to the Financial Secretary of the Union, to United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, 2200 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario, L5N 2K7, supply a statement showing the following information from whan pay deductions have been made.
All monthly dues for members to be submitted in alphabetical order with current address, postal code and Social Insurance Muter.
(b)	Twelve (12) check-offs per year (Chlaxhcmonths).
(c)	Monthly - New members to be listed in alphabetical order wrih Social Insurance Hitter and date of hire and starting salary.
Terminations or Resignations - to be listed in alphabetical order with current address, postal code, Social Insurance Number and date of termination or resignation
-3-
AdLh±£*±> to be updated as well as name changes, i.e., marriage and transfers, fcanone local to another to keep records current.
((Q	Each employee is responsible for promptly notifying the Human Resources Department of the
Company in writing of any change of name, address, phone number, marital status.
4.05	Part-time employees working on a temporary full -time basis wi 11 be required to pay full -time Union Dues.
4.06	The Company agrees to pay up to a maximum of six (6) employees on the Union Negotiating Committee fir time spent cn negotiations vath the Company, during their scheduled hours, at their normalrates ofpay. The Union Negotiating Committee will be comprised ofno more than one (1) member from each department to a maximum of six (6) employees.
4.07	The Union shall indemnify and save harmless the Company, its agents and/or employees acting on behalf of the Qjrpjiy from any and all claims, demands, actios or causes of action arising out of or in any way connected with the collection of such dues and initiation fees for Lkxn members only.
4.08	(a) No permanent employee shall be discharged or disciplined Without good and sufficient cause.
(b)	(i) The Company agrees ^whenever an interview is held with an employee tte:
hmiPR part of ais/her record regarding working conduct, the Steward will be present as a witness, The employeemay request ti&.the Steward leave the meeting.
(ii)	In the event the Steward is not present, the condition wi 11 be brought to the attention of the employee. The meeting that becomes part of the employee's record will be postponed util the Steward is available.
(iii)	If the meeting is held without the Steward, any conclusion, verbal or written, wi be null and void except viren the employee iEq&ts the steward to leave.
(iv)	In theeventa Steward has not been designated by the Union for the area as provided in clause 6.01, then the meeting between the employee and the Company representative shall be considered valid and becomes part of the employee's record.
(c)	As of the effective date of this Agreement, written Wmh.’g Notices on an employee's record are to be withdrawn after one (1) year, provided there are no further written Warning Notices given during the above-mentioned one (1) year period.
4.09	The Company agrees to send to the Union Office a complete seniority list with rates of pay, every three (3) months.
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
5.01	The grievance procedure is designed to adjust complaints and grievances in an orderly manner and as quickly as possible. Any dispute or difference of opinion concerning the
-4-
uiterpretation, application or alleged violation of a specific provision of this Agreement shall constitute a grievance.
5.02	Fora grievance to be considered and processed under this Article, it must be presented, in writing, within seven (7) calendar days after the alleged incident occurred.
5.03	Step 1. The aggrieved employee shall present his/her written grievance to the Department Supervisor and a meeting will be held between the Department Supervisor and/or Superintendent, the grievor and the Steward. If the Company does not mange to hold a meeting within five (5) working days following request for such meeting, the grievance will be dealt with at the following step should either party so desire.
The Department Superintendentwill give an answer, in Writing, within five (5) working days. The grievance may be processed to Step 2 any time within five (5) working days thereafter.
Step 2. (a) The aggrieved employee may present his/her vritim grievance to the Plant Manager. A meeting will be held with management representatives, the grievor, Steward and/or Chief Steward and/or the Business Representative. If the Company does not arrange to hold a meeting within 5 working days following request for such meeting, the grievance shall be dealt with at the following step should either party so desire, except that the five day period may be extended to ten days should the Company or Union so request
The Plant Manager or his/her designate shall give a reply, in writing, within five (5) working days of the Step 2 meeting. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee. concerned is not reached within five (5) working days thereafter, the grievance may be referred to a Board of Arbitration, as provided in Step 3, any time within thirty (30) calendar days thereafter. If the grievance is not taken to aitd.taa.tiai as herein provided, the grievance shall be deemed to have been settled at the conclusion of Step 2, with the decision of the Plant Manager or his/her designate being final and binding on the Union, the Company and thegrievor.
The time limits as prescribed above in Steps 1 and 2 nay be modified by mutual agreement, in writing c£ the Company and the Uiim.
(b)	The Company and the Union agree that either party has the right to file a oolicy grievance that may begin at Step 2.
Discharge or Suspension. In the case of a dischaige or suspension, a grievance may be filed at Step 2 by an employee who feels he/she vbs unjustly dealt with. Such a grievance shall be filed within seven (7) calendar days of the date of dismissal or suspension.
Step 3. The Company and the Union agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation, application or alleged violation of a specific provision of this Agreement, which has been properly carried through the steps outlined in this Article and which has not been settled, may be referred to a Board of Arbitration by either the Company or the Union notifying, in writing, the other of such action.
-5-
5.04	The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one (1) persm appointed by the Company, one
(1)	person appointed by the Union, and a third person to act as Gaiznoi agreed to by the other two
(2)	tworfrig-rg of the Board.
5.05	Within fourteen (14) calendar days of the request by the Goqsny or the Union to the other for a Board, each shall notify the otta: of the name of its appointee.
5.06	Should the paracns appointed by the Company and the tttim to act on the Board not agree ona third pers® within fifteen (15) working days of the notification period provided in clause 5.05, the Minister of labour of the Province of Ontario shall be asked to nominate a persm to act as Chairman
5.07	The Board of Arintraticn shall not have any jurisdiction to alter, add to, subtract from, modify, amend, or to ahstitutE any provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Agreement
5.08	The UluIiille or majority cferiskn, in writing, of the Arbitration Board vath respect to die matters coming within the jirigtirttm of the Board shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Lhim and the srployees.
5.09	(a) The Company and the ttrim shall pay their own rapective costs, and the fees and expenses of any witnesses and of their respective representatives, including appointees to the Board The fees and expenses of the Chairman shall be shared equally by the Company and the Union. The Company shall pay the grieving enplqyee at his/her basic hourly rate fix the dsaticn of the ariitzatim meeting if the meeting vbs held during his/her regular scheduled working hours and only for such time he/she would have runnally worked had the meeting not been held
(b) The Ihim's Business Representative shall be adnitted during working hours, at a reasonable time, to interview employees on duty orto inspectwotkng amditkns. Such visits shall be arranged to cause a minimum of disturbance to the Company's breirass and the Representative doll first report his/her presence on the oorasion of each such visit to the Vice President Human fesrurcss or, in his/her absence, the Manufacturing Manageror, in his/her absence, his/her delegated representative.
ARTICLE 6 - STEWARDS
6.01	Tbi(10) Union Stewards, including the Chief Steward,shall be designated by the Union for
the following areas:
I Drivers	|	1 Steward I
-6-
o.02 If additional departments come into being, the Union may discuss with the Company the designation of additional Steward or Stewards and changes ircy be made by mutual agreement.
6.03	The Union shall notify the Company, in writing, upon elections of the names of the Stewards and the areas they represent as well as of any changes in such persons as and when such changes occur.
6.04	The Union agrees that Stewards, like other employees, have their regular duties to perform on behalf of the Ccnparry and that such perscxis shall not leave their regular ditins without prior consent of their supervisor. In the event of them having to leave their regular duties or department for purposes of processing an employee complaint or grievance, they shall fudicbtain permission from their supervisor giving reasons for such request When the hwiiwM of the Stewards is completed, they will check-in to their own department throuc^i their supervisor. The Union further agrees that Stewards shall not absent themselves from their regular duties for unreasonable lengths of time.
6.05	Union Stewards while attending meetings with Company representatives on Company property will be paid their basic hourly rate for the dnatim of the meeting if the meeting is held during ther regular scheduled woriong hours and for such time they would have normally worked had the meeting not been held
6.06	The Gnparxy agrees that the Chief Steward has the right to leave the stafcim of work after obtaining permission from his/her supervisor to in vestigate any grievance by his/her fellow steward or fellow workers. The Chiefs teward w3 be given copies of all written warnings.
ARTICLE 7- DISCRIMINATION
7.01	The Company agrees that it will not discriminate nor use intdmkfatiari, taasstafc, cr coercion against any employees by reason of their race, colour, creed, country of origin, position vath or nBt±EE±ap in the Union. The Union agrees that it wil not discriminate nor use intimidation, harassment or coercion a^instany employees by reason of their race, colour, creed, country of origin or position with the company or non-membership in the Union.
ARTICLE 8 - UNIFORMS AND TOOLS
8.01	The Company frail supply to its employees £31 tools, aprons, coats, etc. necessary for proper performance of their work. However, skilled trades maintenance department employees shall have worn out or broken tools replaced Such tools shall be turned into the department supervisor at the time of such request Such employees shall exercise reasonable care in looking afta: the condition of their tools. An allowance of two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be paid by separate cheque on February 1st of each contract year to all such skilled trades maintenance department employees to replace any mislaid tools. Effective October 18, 1997, the allowance will be increased to two hundred-fifty dollars ($250.00).
8.02	Upon provision of receipts for the purchase of safety shoes by the employee, the Company agrees to pay up to seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per contract year for Safety Committee approved safety shoes for each full-time, non-probationary employee. Effective October 18, 1997 this amount becomes ninety dollars ($90.00).An exception to this will be that the Company will supply safety rubber boots to employees whose work functions necessitates same, as required.
-7-
8.03	(a) The Company will provide a clean two piece freezer coat and gloves for the
freezerpereon.
fb) E&xfcas will be supplied to employees when assigned to work in freezer areas. The
Company agrees to purchase six (6) additional freezer coats for the maintenance department
(c)	The Company agrees to supply outside Shippers with parkas.
(d)	The Company will provide thermal vests to pemunent employees in the foUrvin?
areas:
i	Packaane
2.	r3S
3.	Trimming
ARTICLE 9- WORKERS' COMPENSATION
9.01	The Company shall, become enrolled so as to afford its employees prota±im under the Workers' Compensation Act
9.02	If an employee is injured and is nequiredto leave the plant fornedicBl attention, he/she will be paid for the balance ofhis/her shift duringwhich the accident occurred.
The Company agrees to have the injured employee accompanied to the doctor's gSub or the hospital by an appropriate person as deemed necessary by the Company.
ARTICLE 10- HOURS OFWORK
10.01	(a) The regular work week for the day shift shall be forty (40) hours per week, eight (8) hours per day. See Hus of WorkScheduledat Appendix"C".
(b)	The Company reserves the right to adjust an individual's starting time up to 1 hour earlier or I hour later as required. When it is necessary to adjust the starting time for the employee, the individual wTL be advised in the week pdor to the change.
Employees who are required to make the above change and are not advised the week prior will be paid llA times their regular hourly rate for all hours worked before their regular starling time (rail hours worked beyond their regular finishing time on the first day.
Employees required to change their regular starting time by noe tim 1 hour will be paid 1 54 tra for the time worked in excess of 1 hour. This payment wi continue for as long as he/she is required to start at the new starting time or until die new schedule is agreed to by the Union and established in Appendix "C". Where the individual's starting time is temporarily changed by more than 1 hour due to a staff reduction, vacation or ^siteeisn coverage, the above 1 lA time penalty will not apply.
(c) Employees required to start before 5:30 am, will be paid fifty cents (50£) per hour for all hours worked before 5:30 am. in addition to their regular hourly rate.	iO
-8-
ARTICLE11 - OVERTIME
11.01	Time and one-half shall be paid for any or all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day. When overtime is to be worked employees are to be informed before lunch break. For weekend overtime the Company will advise employees by lunch break on Friday.
11.02	(a) Employees whose normal work week is Monday to Friday called in to work on Saturday will be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours at the rate of tic and one-half. After the first four (4) hours the rate will become double time. A minimum of four (4) hours will be guaranteed on a Sunday at the double time rate.
(b) Employees whose normal work week is Sunday to Thursday called in to work on Friday will be guaranteed a rrinrnum of four (4) hours at the iSe of time and one -half. After the first four (4) hours the rate wil be double tine. A minimum of four (4) hours will be guaranteed on a Saturday at the double time rate.
11.03	All work performed on a Recognized Holiday (or days celebrated in lieu thereof) shall be
paid	minimum of four hours;) at double the zegilar rate of pay in additim to the day's pay for
such holiday.
11.04	All employees shall be required to work a reasonable amount of overtime and, if necessary, employees having least seniority shall be expected to work provided the employee is capable of perfbnning such work. An employee with physical work restrictions on file in the Hjtbti Resources departmentmay decline the overtimeopportunity and wil not be expected to work
11.05	(a) If overtime is required in the Maintenance and Sanitation department, the Company agrees that the employees who work in the areawill work overtime Monday through Friday unless the employee has other commitments and may not be able to work the overtime; however, on Saturday and Sunday the overtime wil I be on a rotation basis.
(b) If overtime is required within the department, (other than Maintenance and Sanitatim) the overtime will be offered to employees who are qualified to perform the required work, by department shift seniority, on a rotation basis. The Company will maintain a listing of those employees qualified to perform each job classification. The "Machine Operator"job classification will be further broken down into specific perations within the department. In the event that overtime is being offered on more than one job classification in the department and where an employee has been placed on two or more overtimejob classification lists that are working overtime, the employee will be offered, where possible, the overtime opportunity for the job in the highest job rate classification subject to the needs erf the business and the overall skills available to work overtime. Where the Supervisor assigns the above employee to the lower paid overtime opportunity due to the overall skills available to work overtime, he/she shall be paid at the higher wage classification.
The Company will maintain two overtime opportunity lists, one for Monday to Friday overtime and the other for Saturday/Sunday/Public Holidays overtime. All overtime job classification lists will be posted in the respective departments.
• 9-
(c)	T emporary tranters of an employee will not affect the opportunity fo r such employee to perform overtime work in their department.
ARTICLE 12 - SHIFT PREMIUMS
12.01	The afternoon shift will cany a forty-five cent (45j<) an hour premium.
12.02	(a) The night shift will carry a fifty cent (50$ an hour porim
(b) A seventy-five cent (75(f) an hour shift pranium, instead of forty -five cert (45(f) an hour premiumw ill be paid on Sunday for all hours voted between six pm and midnight for all enplqyees regularly scheduled to teak on Sunday.
12.03	Night Shipping employees will have a guarantee of thirty-seven (37) regular hours worked minimum per week.
ARTICLE 13 - RE ST PERIODS
13.01	The Company shall granta fifbeen(15) rrinute rest period as near as practicable to the middle of the firsthalf and to the middle of the seoondhalf of the shift
13.02	When an employee is required to work in excess of one aid one-quarterhoucs beyond his/her regular scheduled quitting time, a fifteen minute rest period, paid for by the Company diall be provided prior to the starting of the overtime shift The Company further agrees to supply a supper or sir dollars ($6.00)in liai ofasupper, dicing the aforementioned restpaktL
ARTICLE 14 - RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
14.01	There shall be eleven (11) recognizedholiriays as follows:
New Year's Day	Civic Holiday
Good FVidy	Labour Day
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving Day
Dominion Day	Christmas Day
Floating Day at Christmas/New Year	Boxing Day
Floating Day	
The Christmas/New Year Floating Holiday will be scheduled between die day before Christmas and the day after New Year's Day inclusive.
The Floating Day will be scheduled during the calendar year upon a request by the employee and subject to the needs of the operation. The Floating Day will be recognized for all employees at work or cm the active payroll as at May 1st each year.
14.02	All employees shall be entitled to full pay for such holidays provided. However, no employees shall be entitled to be paid for such holiday if they absent themselves without good and valid cause on the day before or the day after such holiday.
- 10-
ARTICLE 15-VACATION
15.01	Employees with less than twelve (12) months service as of May l st shall receive vacation pay equal to fairpercent (4%) of earnings from date of hiring to May 1st of current vacation year.
15.02	Employees with twelve (12) months or more of service as of May 1st shall receive two (2) weeks' vacation wilii pay or four percent (4%) of earnings, whichever is greater,
15.03	Employees with five (5J years or more of service as of May 1st shall receive three (3) weeks' vacation with pay or six percent (6%) of earnings, whichever is greater.
15.04	Employees vathten (10) yeans or more of service as of May 1st shall receive fijur (4) weeks' vacation with pay or eight percent (8%) of earnings, whicheveris greater.
15.05	Employees with eightea (18) years or more of service as of May 1st shall receive five (5) weeks'vacation vafh pay <r ten parent (10%) ofeamirqs, whichever is greater
15.06	Employees with twenty-five (25) years or more of service as of May 1st dall receive six (6) weeks' vacation vath pay or twelve percent (12%)of earnings, vhidaa is greater.
15.07	Vacations are to be takai between May 1 st and the following April 30th, and shal not be carried Danone vacation year to the next.
15.08	For the purpose of Article 15, employees who startedto work on cr before the 15th of May w i 11 be deemed to have started on the first of the month. Employees who started aflar the 15 th cby of May wi II be deemed to have startedon the first day of the following north.
15.09	An employee who has four (4) weeks' vacation entidement orrrare, one of the weeks will be taken during the months of January to April.
ARTICLE 16 - SENIORITY
16.01	Seniority in this Agreement shall be a plant-wide seniority from the day of last hire.
16.02	(a) In the case of date duplication, an alphabetical list shall be prepared in accordance vzth die surname and those at the top of the list shall be deemed to be hired first.
(b) The Company agrees to post the seniority list on the bulletin board every six (6) months.
16.03	New employees hired by the Company will be considered as probationary employees until they have completed fi fty (50) days worked during which time they may be discharged or disciplined without recourse to the Grievance Procedure. The Company will not discharge an employee for the purpose of enforcing an additional probationary period. Upon completion of the fiftieth worked day the employee shall be either discharged or placed on the regular seniority list.
16.04	(a) h the event of a promotion, transfer, a reduction of staff or lay -off, or a rehiring of employees, the principle of plant-wide seniority shall govern the matter provided the employee is qualified to perform the work.
(b) The exceptions to 16.04 (a) will be that when employees are temporarily displaced for up to three (3) work days due to lack of work the principle of plant shift seniority will apply.
-11 -
When reducing staff due to lack of work for a periodof two (2) hours <r less remaining in the shift, the principle of department shiftseniority Will apply (an employee being reduced for 2 hours or less has the right to displace a student wxkirg in another department on the same shift ratherthan being senthome, provided the employee can perform the required work).
(c)	Employees displaced will fill vacancies created by lay-offs, in accordance with 16.04 (a) and (b) provided they are qualified to perform the work
(d)	When it can be determined tilt a temporary vacancy which is necessary to fill due to an absence of an employee will exist for a period of more thai the (3) work days, the Company will provide full consideration to seniority and qualifications an a departmental basis.
16.05	(a) In the event of lay-offs, the Company undertakes to eliminate die use of part-time aipky*£s, provided there are full-time employees available who are qualified to perform the
work
(b)	The Company that part-time employees will not be sdiediled to work on a week-end when qualified full-time employees are available to work.
(c)	A full-time employee who chooses part-time employment, in liai of lay-off, wifi retain full-time seniority unless the employee refuses recall to full-time status. A part-time employee who refuses a recall to fidl-time status shall be governed by Appendix B Article 16 (c).
16.06	An employee reporlingto work fide his/her regular shift and is laid off or not required for any part of that shift due to a mechanical breakdown, shall be paid a minimum of six (6) hours at his/her regular basic hourly rats except tfcsi the employee:
ffes been given advance notks not to report to work.
(b)	Is prevented from working because of an act of God such as power failure, flood or fire.
Did not keep the Company advised of his/her current address and telephone number.
16.07	Employees who because of a lack of work are to be laid off for a period of more than three (3) iok days and who have:
(a)	lees than five (5) years' service shall receive two (2) days' written notice or two (2) days'
basic pay in lieu of such notice.	.
(b)	Five (5) or more but less than tm (10) years' service shall receive one (1) week's written notice or one (1) week’s basic pay in lieu of such notice.
(c)	tei (10) or more years' service shall receive two (2) weeks' written notice or two (2) weeks' basic pay in lieu of such notice.
Copies of lay-off notices shall be given to the Stewards of the areas where the employees are to be laid off work.
-12-
In the event of a lay-off of three (3) work days or less, verbal advice shall be given to the Stewards of the areas where the employees ana to be laid off
Lay-offs of three (3) work days or less will not be issued to an individual who has received written notice under Article 16.07(a), (b) or(c) above.
16.08	(a) v/\hen recalling persons, a laid-offemployee will be entitled to be recalled fora period of twelve (12) nmtte from the date of lay-off xi accordance wth clause 16.04. The Company shall direct such prams by registered letter to the last address appearing on the Company's records to report to work. Hie perecn recalled shall report to work at the date and time specified in the zs^stmsi letter or withinseven (7Jcalendar days of the date of tile registered letter, whichever is the later. In the event the person recalled is unable to report because of medically validated accident or sickness, or for any other vaid zeasxi,he/she shall be excused from such recall. In order to return Id work, the person disabled shall provide acceptable medical evidence ofphysical idlity to return to work
(b) Where an employeemoves to motherjob because of a lay-off, he/she shall be returned to die position he/she held before the lay-off prior to any employee on lay-off being recalled to fill the position.
16.09	An employee dall lose his/her seniority vfaai:
(a)	He/she is discharged by the Company and is not reinstated frroucfithe grievanceprocedure.
(b)	He/she vol untarily terminates his/her employment
(c)	He/she has been laid off continuously for a period of more thai twelve (12) norths.
(d)	He/she does not return to work from lay-offas provided in clause 16.08,
(e)	He/she is absent firm work for three (3) working days without a good and valid reason.
16.10	Employees' seniority will not be unreasonably terminated when they remain away from work because of sickness or disability, provided the Conpany is notified within a reasonable time. An employee returning from sick or disability leave after five (5J working days' absence, must, if requested by the Company, present a certificate from his/her physician stating the nature of the sickness and that the employee is fully recovered fo perform his/her regular duties or defined modified ditias.
16.11	\Ahen an employee is required to take time-off from work for personal reasons, he/she shall advise his/her i mmediate supervisor one (l)day before. In the event ofthe permanent closure of all or part of the plant operations, terminated employees will receive severance pay in accordance with the terms of the Ontario Employment Starfanis Act
ARTICLE 17- PROMOTION
17.01	In applying the provisions of this Article, the plant shall be divided into departments as per Appendix "A".
- 13-
17.02	(a) The Company will provide training opportunities to employees on a department shift seniority basis, and when filling a back up vacancy in a department, the Company will give the senior employee on the shift the opportunity to fill the vacancy, provided he/she has the required skills and qualifications to perform the work.
(b) The Company agrees to post on the bulletin boards all full time permanent vacancies, all back up vacancies, all training opportunities and promotions.
17.03	(a) To fill a permanent vacancy in a department, such vacancy shall be posted for a period of four (4) working days. Interested employees shall submit an application form (obtained from their Supervisor or the Hziai Resources Department) within the four (4) working days of the posting. The Company shall fill the vacancy by seniority in the following order
i)	First, the vacancy will be filled by those applicants firm within the department.
ii)	Second, if the vacancy is not filled fcy i), the Caipany will fill the vacancy from applicants from other departments on the basis of plant-wide seniority.
The successful candidate in the paragraph above will be awarded the vacancy provided he/she has the required level of skill, ability, efficiency and the physical capability to performthe work.
(b) The name, department and seniority date of the employee will be posted. A copy of such notice will be forwarded to the Union office.
17.04	(a) When an employee is successful on a job posting, he/she shall maintain his/her existing rate unless the employee has had previous experience on the job, in which case he/she shall receive the job rate immediately. When an employee has maintained his/her existing classification rate he/she shall progress to the new job classification rate after successfully uaintainirg the new position for thirty (30) working days.
(b) An employee who is successful on a job posting and who maintains the position after thirty (30) working days, will receive the new job classificationrate retroactive to die fiist day of appointment of the position.
ARTICLE 18 - DEMOTION
18.01	In applying the provisions of this Article, the plant shall be divided into departments as per Appendix "A".
18.02	This Article will be appliedin conjunction with 17.02 (a), 17.02 (b) or 17.03 (a).
18.03	Employees wishing to bid on a lower-paidjob vacancy will be given the opportunity on the basis of seniority, once every twelve (12) months maximm, to successfully bid up to two classification levels lower, provided they have the required skills and qualifications to perform the
work. The exchange will take place once the Company has had the opportunity to train replacement personnel.
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVE OP ABSENCE
19.01	Employees may be granted a leave of absence without loss of seniority, upon proper approval being obtained from the Plant Manager or his/her designate and such leave of absence shall not be unreasonably withheld
19.02	In the case of pregnant farales,leave of absence will be granted without loss of seniority to such pesos provided such employees shal return to work not more than sixteen (16) weeks following the birth of the child The Company res erves the right to determine when it shall no longer be suitable for a pregnant femaleto continuework.
19.03	(a) In the eiert an enqjloyee is precluded fiomwotking his/her regular shift or shifts due to being called for and reporting for jury duty orjuiy selection, <x being subpoenaed as a crown witness, the Company agrees to make-up the difference in pay between foe amount received for jury duty, jury selection time, or crown witness duty, and the amount the employee would have earned for working his/her zegularshift or shifts.
(b) In order to qualify for such anpensafciai,the employee shall give seventy-two (72) noun1 prior notice tohis/acr supervisor for such jay duty, jury selection call, or subpoena as a crown witness and present evidence of the compensation received for such period.
ARTICLE 20 - HEALTH AND WELFARE
20.01	The Company agrees to pay the full premium for all full -time employees and their dependants for the Ontario Health Insurance Plan plus coverage to provide semi -private hospitalization for all employees and their dependants.
20.02	It is further agreed that in the event of changes to the present premium fe: would result ii a saving to the Company, such saving will be used to purchase increased taeGts for foe employees.
20.03	(a) The Company agrees to pay for weekly wage indemnity coverage of seventy percent (70%) of a full-time employee's basic weekly earnings, for apsriai of twenty-six consecutive weeks effective on the first day of an accident and the fourth day of an illness,
Employees with twenty (20) years' service or more will be eligible for thirty-nine (39) consecutive weeks of weekly wage indemnity coverage under the terms outlined above.
Employees who have used their weekly wage indemnity coverage and who are not eligible for Long Iterm Disability coverage, will be given the opportunity to apply for any U.l.C. sickness benefits to which they may be eligible undo- U.l.C. legislation.
NOTE: Caipany has no liability if U.l.C. claims are denied or if granted, affect subsequent claims for U.l.C. unemployment benefits. Employees will still need to provide Gxipary with regular medical evidence to support their continued absence. This provision can not be used when a WCB claim has been made or rejected.
• 15-
(b)	The Company agrees to pay for Long l&m Disability coverage of seventy percent (70%) of a fall-time employee’s basic weekly earnings, integrated with the indemnity payable by the Canada Pension Plan and Compensation Act commencing effective with the twenty-seventh week of absence due to illness/accident, provided the employee is totally disabled to perform any work, according to the rules and regulations of the insurers.
20.04	(a) The Company agrees to pay for a comprehensive drug prescription plan covering mil-time employeesand their dependants. The plan shall have ten dollars ($10.00) deductible for single coverage and twenty dollars ($20.00) deductible for family coverage.
(b)	The Company agrees to provide a vision care plan (under die Mger Medical Plan) providing a benefit of one hundred and twenty-five dfUas ($125.00) per person every two (2) consecutive years for each employee and his/her eligible d^aidants, for the purchase of frames, lenses, the fitting of pEszjptim Jsises and contacts when recommended fay a physician cr qjtnrebrist. Effective October 18, 1997 the above will be increased to one hundred and thirty-fivedaUars ($135.00).
20.05	(a) The Company agrees to provide and pay the full premium for a fifteen thousand dollar ($15,000.00) life insurance policy for all full -time employees.
In ad&timto the fifteen thousand dollar ($15,000) life insurance policy the Company agrees to provide and pay the full premium for a fifteen thousand dollar ($15,000) Accidental Path and Dismemberment policy.
(b)	Upon retiring, employees shall receive from the Company either
i)	the sun of $1,500.00, or
jjj a paid-up Life insurance policy in the amount of $5,000.00.
20.06	The Company agrees to contribute twenty-five oents (250) per hour for regilar hours worked by full-time employees into the Ontario Retail Employees BrtaL Benefit Thrt: Fund Effective January 15,1998 the above amount will be increased to twenty-eight (28) cents.
20.07	The Company agrees to pay contributions to the Trust Fund of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan on behalf of all bargaining unit employees who have completed their probationary period (Employees).
Effective January 1, 1997, the Company agrees to pay contributions to the Trust Fund of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan in the amount of forty-six (46) cents per hour for each Employee. Effective January 1,1998 the confribution rate will be increased to fifty (50) cents.
The hours that shall be counted for the purpose of the Company’s contributions shall include hours worked, hours paid because of vacations, statutory holidays, bereavement leave and jury duty, hours paid for time spent at negotiations or grievance meetings and will also include lost hours not paid by the Company for Employees attending union business when approved by the Union and the Company.
-16-
The Company will contribute for the hours specified above, to a maximun of forty (40) hours per week and to a maximum of two thousand (2,000) hours per calendar year for each Employee.
These contributions,supported by a report in a format designated by the trustees of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan, showing the names of Employees for whom contributions were paid and die number of hours for which contributions were paid for Employee, will be remitted directly to the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan within fifteen (15) days following the end of each month to which the contributions are applicable. The Company agrees to pay any late remittance damages, interest cr charges that are presently provided for in the Contribution Control Programme of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan Trust Fund as of its latest revision in June 1991.
It is understood that the Company's participation in the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan shall be limited to making on a timely basis the remittances as outlined herein and also providing from time to time such documents, forms, reports and information as may be required by the trustees of the Canadian Commercial Vfides Industry Pension Plan providai that such are reasonably required andnecessaiy to the administration of the Plan. The Company assumes no responsibility for pension benefits provided by foe Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan.
20.08	(a) The Company shall continue to make a reasonable provision for foe safety and health of its employees at foe plant dtriig the hours offoeir employment.
(b)	The Company agrees to estahlifo an Accident ftsexticn Committee in an endeavour to provide safe worn parH<T><i throughout foe operation and such Committee shall meet monthly. Five (5) of foe pprems on foe Committee shall be enployees and/or Union Stewards while the remaining persons shall be Company representatives.
(c)	It is the intmfckn of the Company and foe Unicn to resolve safety issues internally. However, the Company and the Union agree that any safety issues tabled at foe Accident Prevention Committee which cannot be resolved to foe mutual satisfaction of foe Company and the Union vaftin a reasonable period of time, may be referred by either party to the Ministry of labour.
20.09	Adequate rest rooms shall be provided and kept heated and ventilated and in good, sanitary anditiai. The employees shall co-operate with foe Compary in keeping the rest rooms in clean and sanitary condition.
20.10	In foe event an employee is required by the Compary, the local Board of Health, or any governmental agency to take a medical examination, x-ray or other tests, such shall be arranged on Company time and at the expense of the Company.
ARTICLE 21 - BEREAVEMENT PAY
21.01	The Ccnpany agrees to pay employees for three (3) working days time off in the event of bereavement in the family as follows: mother, father, wife, husband, child, brother, sister. The Company further agrees to pay employees for two (2) working days time off in foe event of
- 17-
bereavement in the family as follows: mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, grandchild,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law.
ARTICLE 22 - WORKING CONDITIONS
22.01	The Ccnpany agrees that its shop and factory shall be pzq&dy ventilated andmaintained in a sanitary condition. The Unm shall co-operate with the Company to practvp good housekeeping methods.
ARTICLE 23 - UNION LABEL
23.01	The Company agrees toputthe Union label onallpickled,smokedmeats, etc.
ARTICLE 24 - UNION SHOP CARDS
24.01	Tire Chicn agrees to supply the Company with a display card which the Company agrees to exhibit in a prominent place in its shop cr factory. Such card shall be the property of the Unm and shall be returned on demand
ARTICLE 25 - CO-OPERATION
25.01	The Company and the Union agree to work through a joint committee and endeavour to promote the sale of union-made delicatessen products whenever possible.
25.02	The Company and the Union agree to participate in a Labour-Management Committee which will meet to discuss matters of mutual concern. An agenda outlining subjects to be discussedwill be provided by the parties to each other prior to the (fete of the meeting.
The Committee will be comprised of three Union representatives and three Management representatives who will ret on a monthly basis. Meetings will normally be held dicing the day shift and employees attending thensbing wl suffer no loss of payable attending.
ARTICLE 26- BASIC HOURLYRATE OF PAY
26.01	Appendix "A-l"- Basic Hourly Rates ofPay will apply to those employees on the payroll as of July 23,1994.
Appendix "A -2" - Brric Hourly Rates ofPay will apply to those employees hired subsequent to July 23,1994.
26.02	The starting rate for new employees (except maintenance employees) hired prior to July 23,
1994 will be as follows:
$ 10.00 per hour for the first six months of employment
Upon the completion of six months of employment the rate will be increased to 85% of their job rate listed in Appendix "A - I".
- 18-
-	IJpcn the completion of twelve months of employmentthe rate will be increased to 90% of their job rate listed in Appendix "A-l".
-	upon the completion of eighteen norths of employment the rate will be increased to 95% of
theirj o b rate listed in Appendix "A-1
-	upon the completion of twenty-four months of employment the rate will be increased to 100% of their job rate listed inAppendix "A-l".
' The starting rate for new employees (except maintenance employees) hired on or subsequent to July 23,1994 will be as follows:
-	$10.00 per hour for the first sixmonths of employment
-	t(m the completion of six norths of employment the ratewill be increased to 85% of their
job rate listed inAppendix "A-2".	'
■ Upon the completion of twelve norths of employmentthe r^e will be increased to 90% of their job rate lists! h Appendix "A-2".
-	Ijpen the completion of eighteen norths of employment the rate w i 11 be increased to 95% of their job rate listed inAppendix "A-2".
-	Ijpqn the completion of twenty-four months of employment the rate will be increased to 100% of their job rate listed in Appendix "A-2".
26.3	Full-time non-probationary employees who are required to perform work in a higher paid dassifLcatiaifor at least one (1) hour per day will be paid the appropriate hic^er rate of pay for time so worked
26.4	tersens who are students vho are temporarily employed during the peak periods (15 April - 15 September, 15 December -15 January) will be paid in accordance with the following schedule:
First year employed	$9.50
Second year employed	$10.00
Third year employed	$10.50
fourth year employed	$11.00
26.05	The Company agrees to provide a $750 lump sum payment, lass deductions, to those regular full-time employees paid under the terms of Appendix “A-l" and the Maintenance employees only who are paid under the terms of Appendix “A-2”, vho are on the payroll and actively at work as of October 18, 1997. Those regular full-time employees referred to in the preceding sentence who are on the payroll but not actively at work as of October 18, 1997, who return to work within 12 months of October 18, 1997 will be entitled to a lump sum payment The amount of payment will be $750 reduced by 1/12 times $750 for each full north of absence or lay-off between Octcber 18, 1997 and the date they return to work.
- 19-
ARTICLE27- TERM OF AGREEMENT
27.01	Except as specified, this Agreement shall take effect as of the 15th dav of January, 1997 and shall remain in effect until te 14th day of January, 1999 and thereafter from yeartoyaTttnlcss either party gives to the other party notice in writing of cancellation or of amerefrrent within the period of ninety (90) days before the anniversary date.
27.02	This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes and replaces all previous agreements, both written and oral.
Agreed this 2? & day of	, 1998.
FORUNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCALS 17S AND 633___________
-20
APPENDIX "A-l"
BASIC HOURLY RATES OF PAY For Fuil-dme Employees Hired Before July 23, 1994
Kitchen	Packaging	Sanitation	Shipping	Maintenance	Ory flood*	□river*	lilfacth/e J/IB/9S
				Electron io Technician Elactromaohanlo Technician			
				Eiectrloian Mechanic AA			619.40
				Maehanio A			4l9.1<J
				MechantoB			hi j6
SmokthouM Operator							TT7F
						tractor/ Trailer Orlvar	■mar
Controller Maat Reoefver	Controller		Fraazar Paraon		Dry flood* Raoalvar		mrr
						Truok Driver Shunter	mar
Trimmer Formulator 2 Maehlna Operator	Paokaging Maohlna Oparator Shoot Oparator	Sanitation Worker	Checker/ Shipper				~msr
Frank-O-Matio Oparator	Wiener Poalor						16.80
HQL, LQL	fracTsn	"R3C					»16.69
APPENDIX "A-2"
BASIC HOURLY RATES OF PAY For Full-time Employees Hired On or After July23,1994
Kitchen	Paokaging	Sanitation	Shipping	Maintenance	Ory flood*	Orivers *		Effective 1/1S/98
				Electronic Teehnlelan Elaotrcmaehanle Taohnlolan		619.95		619.95
				Beotrioian Mechanic AA		4t9.4o		419.46
				Mechanic A		619.10		619.10
				Mechanic B		618.46		418.40
Smokehouse Operator							si 3.61	*13.96
						Tractor/ Trailer Driver	*13.42	J13777
Material Controller Meat Receiver	Material Controller		l-reezer Person		Dry uoods Receiver		613.16	613.64
						irucK ’ Driver Shunter	$T3I27	613.62 613.53
Trimmer Formulator 2 Machine Operator	Packaging Machine Operator Slicer Operator	Sanitation Worker	Checker/ Shipper					
Frank-O-Matic Operator	Wiener Peeler							
HQL, LOL	HCL, LOL	"H3C						
APPENDIX "H"
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
The anditicns of employment for persons employed for twenty-four (24) hoars or less per week shall be as set out elsewhere in this Agreement except as provided hereafto1 in this Agreement
ARTICLE 4 • UNION SECURITY
4.03	The Company agrees to commence deducting Union dues from a part-time employee's first
pay chequeand each pay cheque thereafter. Union dues shall be two dollars and seventy-five cents ($2.75) a week for a part-tine arployee who works less than twelve hours a particular week and three rhllam and twenty-five ch4s ($3.25) a week for a part-time employee who vote twelve <r more hours a particular tedc.
4.09	(a) Non probationary part-time employees shall not be discharged cr disciplined without
good andsufficientcause,
ARTICLE 10 - HOURS CF WORK
Clause 10.01 - Not applicable.
ARTICLE 11 - OVERTIME
11.01	Time and one-half ^sllbe paid fix any and a 11 time vadsi in excess of eight (8) hours per day and in excess of twenty-four (24) straight time paid hours per weak When overtime is to be worked, employees are to be informed before lunch break.
Ham; 11.02 and 11.04 - Not applicable.
ARTICLE 12 - SHIFT PREMIUMS
Clause 12 - Not applicable.
ARTICLE 14 - RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
14.02	In order to qualify for pay for the holidays provided in clauses 14.01, a part -lime employee shall have:
(a)	Been in the employ of the Company for three (3) months or more immediately prior to a holiday.
(b)	Worked on at least ten (10) days during the thirty day period immediately preceding a holiday.
Worked his/her regular scheduled shift preceding and following a holiday.
14.03	Provided the conditions specified in clause 14.02 have been neb, the number of specified holiday hours (to a maximum of eight) that a part-time employee diall be credited with in each
-22-
i ns lance, to be paid at his/her regular straight tic basic hourly rzt£ of pay, shall be doeiminM-*. totalling the number of hours worked by the employee in the thirty day period immediately preceding the week of the holiday and dividing that total by die number of days worked ii the same period
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS
Vacation pay shall be as provided in the laws (i.e., four percent) of the Province of Ontario. ARTICLE 16 - SENIORITY
(a)	Part-time employees shall have a probationary trial period of forty -five (45) shifts of work.
(b)	A part-time employee re-classified Id fuD-time onjobs involving the same skis, will not be required to serve a further probationary period The confirmation as a full -time employee is subject to the successful passing of the Employer's standadmedical examination.
(c)	A part-time employee re-classifiedto full-time employee, shall carry one-half (1/2) of his/her part-time seniority up to a iraxm/n of four (4) years to his/her full -time employmmt (in other words, a maximum of two (2) years’ seniority as a full -time employee).
(d)	In the event of a redrtkn in the number of employees covered by this Appendix, the employee vdth. the least seniority shall be the fust laid off followed by the employee vith the next least seniority, provided the enployees retaining have the required skills and qualifications to perform the wxk available.
(e)	VWien increasing the number of enployees covered by this Appendix, persons on lay-off having recall rights wi be recalled according to their sariarity provided such persons have the required skills and qualifications^ perform the vok available.
(f) A part-time employee shall lose his/her seniority vhai:
1.	He/she is discharged by the Company and is not re-instated through the grievance procedure.
2.	He/s he voluntarily terminates his/her employment
3.	He/she has been laid-off continuously for a period of more than four (4) norths.
4.	He/she does not return to work from lay-off at the lime required
ARTICLE 17 - PROMOTIONS
Clause 17 - Not applicable.
ARTICLE 21 - BEREAVEMENT PAY
21.1	The Company agrees to pay a part-time employee his/her basic pay, up to his/her scheduled hours, to attend the funeral of any of the family	as provided in clause 21.01 of this
Agreement, provided such day is a regular scheduledwork day.
-23-
21.2	ARTICLE 26 - BASIC HOURLYRATES OP PAY
26.01 (a) Those part-time employees who have completed their pidatknary period on or before April 9, 1992 (or prior to a peak period) will be paid under the part -time wage progression during peak and off-peak periods as defined in 2d 04. All other employees employed during
peak periods will be paid under the student wage progression as defined in 26.04.
(b) Part-time employees on the payroll at April 9, 1992 or employed thereafter, shall be paid the following basic hourly rates of pay:
At date of employment	$10.52
Aftff6 months' service	$11.02
Aftff 12 months' service	$11.52
After 18 months' service	$12.02
-24.
APPENDIX "C"
HOURS OF WORK
Department	Mon.-Fri. (Day Shift)	Mon-Fri. (Noon Shift)	Mon.-Fri. (Night Shift)	Sun.-Thur. (Night arift)
Grinding	6:30-15:00	15:00-23:30		22:00-6:30
Formulation	3:00-11:30 4:00-12:30 4:30-13:00	12:30-21:00 13:00-21:30		
F AM Operator	5:15-13:45	13:45-22:15		
Salami Grinder	5:30-14:00 6:00-14:30	14:00-22:30 14:30-23:00		
Smokehouse	6:00-14:30 *5:00-13:30	14:15-22:45	22:30-7:00	
set-up Stuffing & Unmoulding	6:00-14:30	14:30-23:00		22:30-7:00
Sanitarian	6:30-15:00	16:00-00:30	22:30-7:00	
Stuffing	7:00-15:30	15:30-00:00		
packaging	6:00-14:30 6:30-15:00 6:45-15:15	14:30-23:00 14:45-23:15 15:00-23:30		
Receiving	6:30-15:00	15:00-23:30		
Shipping	7:00-15:30 7:30-16:00 9:00-17:30	15:30-00:00	22:30-7:00	18:00-2:30 22:30-7:00
Dry Goods	6:30-15:00	15:00-23:30		
Curing/ Trimming	6:30-15:00	15:00-23:30		
Maintenance	6:00-14:30	14:00-22:30	22:30-7:00	22:00-6:30
*0h Monday only and strictly for continuous house operator.
-25-
APPENDIX "D”
DRIVERS
The Caipany and the Union hereby agree that the Collective Agreement between Shopsy's and the United Fbod and Commercial Wiias Union, Local 175, oovecii^ drivers in the employ of the Company ± and out ofMtarpiilai Tbrnto will not be renewed upon its legal expiry date. The parties agree that the terms and conditions of employment of such divers will be governed by the Collective Agreement between Shopsy's and Locals 175 and 633 and that any terms or conditions in the expired Drivers' Collective Agreementnot oentainedin the Agreement wi 11 be nill and void
The Collective Agreement will cover both plant employees and drivers-, the provisions contained in Appendix "D" attached hereto will be applicable to drivers.
1.	(a) Persons excluded from the bargaining unit will not perform work which is normally
performed by the enployees in the bargaining unit; except in cases of emergency, training, astnaar demands or re-organization of routes due to volume, <r excessive costs.
(b)	The Company further agrees not to solicit aaxmts fccpick-up at the p lant
(c)	The Company agress, subject to (d), to pay drivers whose jobs are permanently discontinued, two (2) weeks' pay for each year of seniority. Mmimm payment will be equal to two (2) months' wages for a 11 hours worked.
(d)	Should a permanent reduction occur, as per (c), displaced drivers may elect to:
(i)	immediately receive payment as per (c), and therefore give up all rights to recall
OR
(ii)	move into the plant unit on a sixncnfch trial basis (Canyingfull service of Heir driver seniority to the plant seniority Ik). Once drivers have chosen the trial period of six (6) months, they.
shall forfeit all rights as per (c) if they are teiminated for cause during the six (6)
ntnth trial period
may elect at any time during the six (6)naith trial period, upon giving the Company a written resignation, to receive payment as per (c) and give up all riefits to recall as a driver or to the plant;
OR
remain in the plant unit and give up their right to recall as drivers and their eligibility for the payment outlined in (c);
OR
-26-
(iii) choose lay-off instead of moving into the plant and receive the payment as per (c) if they have been continuously laid off for a period of twelve months.
2.	For the purpose of filling temporary driver requirements due to absenteeism, sickness, workload peaks, and emergencies, the Caipany may fill such vaandes wth qualified plant employees.
However, in the event that there are qualified laid-off drivers and the Company has knowledge prior to the start of the shift that the vacancy will exist, the Company will place a phone call to the phone number recorded by the laid-off (hirer Wth the Company for die purpose of cfesdng the available work to the laid-off (hirer. The Company will provide the available work to the sarin laid -off driver subject to the needs of the operadonwith respect Id the number ofhours to be worked
3.	The Company agrees tfet drivers have the right to review their Personnel file onoe per calendar year in the presence of a member of the Hnen tesmas Department Arrangements to be made through the Driver Supervisor.
4.	(a) The Company agrees to supply regular, full-time non-probadonary enplcyees, upon
completion of their probation period, with the following uniform actinias:	five (5)
short-sleeve shirts, three (3) lcn^sleeve shifts, two (2) light-weight trousers, two (2) heavy-weight trousers, one (1) parka and one (1) jacket with removable liner. Employees will wear said uniform while performing woric as a driver for the Company. Employees shall be responsible for the cleanliness of such wufonns.
(b) The Carpany agrees to replace or repair worn shirts, pants, jackets and parkas, as required.
The Uhion agrees that it is the driver's reqmsihility to replace any mislaid articles of uniform, up to the limit as outlined in (a) above.
(d)	The Company agrees to pay each drirer with seniority $50 per year uniform cleaning allowance
5.	The Company agrees to use the preview four (4) weeks' gross earnings, or the actual hourly rate, whichever is greater, for Workers' Compensation purposes.
6.	(a) The regular vcxkirg hours shall be forty (40) hours per week Monday to Efciday except as indicated below:
	Starting Timebetween	Finishing Timebetween
Dayshift	6:00 am. -8:00 am.	2:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.
Afternoon Shift	3:30 p.m. -5:30 p.m.	1200 mid-2:00 a.m.
Shunter: Sunday to Thursday	4:30 p.m. -6:30 p.m.	1:00 a.m. -3:30 a.m.
-27-
If the Company decides to operate on af tamocn shift, the following procedure will apply:
The afternoon shiftjob(s) will be posted and drivers may bid according to seniority. In the event that no drivers apply for the posted position^), the mostjunior dri verfs) will be required to fill the vacant position^).
(b)	All restperiods are to be &<an on theroute.
(c)	During the nrnths of January, February and March a non-probationary employee who is scheduled to work and who is at work ± the commencement of the work week shall be guaranteed a pay fur the week equal to forty (40) hours regular minimum pay, subj ect to the
following:
1.	The Company may distribute work among and between Driv ers to provide employees with the aforementioned guarantee.
2.	The guarantee shall be reduced, ii units of fiftem (15) minutes, by the amount of time for which ai employee is not eligible for payment of vac^s.
3.	Pay received for a recognized holiday, or holiday enacted by legislation, not worked shall be regarded as part of the guarantee for the week in which the holiday is observed.
4.	If an employee declines to perform his/her normal dirties, the Company shall be absolved from guaranteeing any time lostby fe: employee.
5.	It is understood t±Et the povisims of Clause 16.06, of Article 16 shall not apply to drivers covered under Appendix "D".
7.	(a) Double time shall be paid for any and all time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours per
day.
(b)	When employees are required to work in excess of one and one-quarter hours beyond their regular scheduled gritting time, a fifteen (15) minute rest period, paid for by the Company, shall be provided prior to the starting of the overtime shift. The Company further agrees to supply a supper, or six dollars ($6.00) in lieu of supper, during the aforementioned rest period
(c)	Employees shall make themselves available for vcxk beyond their regular gutting time when their route calls are not yet completed. Permission to complete or to not complete, such route calls must be obtained from the Company's representatively calling between 2:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m.. All employees will call in between 2:00 p.m, and3;00 p.m. daily or on completion of their route whichever is earlier. The Company shall not unreasonably x±LLub the provisions of this paragraph.
(d)	In the event employees have been told to return to the plant and to not complete their route, such employees will not be again sent out on any general deliveries unless they agree to do so.
-28-
(e)	In the event employees return to the plant after completing their route: and the Company has an order that requires delivery, such employees shall make themselves available to cam pi-such delivery unless they have a valid xeasoi not to do so in which case the Company may complete the delivery in any uaiu it deems appropriate.
Should emergency/unexpected deliveries arise, the Company shall rf fi=r such deliveries to at least one driver on his/her return if by 2 pm or adis. Should the driver refuse or the delivery arise after 2 p.m., the Company may complete the delivery in any manner deemed appropriate.
8.	An exception to Clause 15.07 of Article 15 wil be that,employees wi th 5,10,18 or 25 years
of service between May 1st and April 30th will be entitled to take the additional vedc of vacation within the vacation year.	•
9.	The proriskns of Clause 16.07 of Article 16 shall not apply when an employee is or from working because of any of the following:
a breakdown of machinery or equipment, apower shortage or failure of pa supply, an At of God, any circumstancesbeyondthe control of the Company.
10.	An employeemay be granted a leave of absence without loss of seniority for a period of up to twelve (12) months, if said employee loses his licence on a temporary basis.
11.	Employees vafii fifteen (15) years' service or more will be eligible for thirty-nine (39) axisecutive weeks of weekly wage indemnity coverage under the terms outlined in Clause 20.03 (a), of Article 20.
12.	The Company agrees to est±ilidi a Transportation Accident Prevention Committee in an endeavour to provide safe work practices throughout the operation and such Committee iall neet monthly. One (1) of the persons on the Committee shall be an employee and/or Unai Staerxi, while the remaining person dallbe a Company representative.
13.	(a) New employees (except Plant employees with two (2) years' service or nae) hired following the date of ratification shall be paid:
-	90% of theirjob rate for the first three (3) months of employment
-	95% of theirjob rate for the second three (3) norths of employment.
-	100% of theirjob rate after six (6) months of employment
(b) The afternoon shift for the positions of Shunter and Truck Driver will carry a forty -five cent (45£) an hour premium.
14.	Job Bidding Procedure
l.	Drivers who request their route (job) go up for bids because wish to change:
-29-
-	The route request will be put up for bids.
-	The driver who requests his/her route be bid originally, will become the sole bidder on the newly vacated route and mD. ha ve the choice of taking it or retaining his/her original route.
2.	A route that is permanently vacated for any other reason:
-	The route wL be put up forbids (as long as the Coiparxy agrees to continue this route).
-	The most senior bidder vill be awarded the route.
-	The newly vacated route wD. be put up for bids and the nest senior bidder \A/I, a^in, be awarded the route.
-	The bidding will end here, with the rasb junior employee involved in die second bidding having the choice of either taking the mute vacated or sfayng on his/her own route. If the remaining vacant mute is to be continued itwil be taken by the adcfitional driver.
3.	A successful bidder must show he/she can run the mute effectively, within a reasonable period of time, or the route will again be put up for bids. The driver being taken off the route wi 11 be assigned to the one vacated by the successful bidder.
4.	A driver who has succeeded in successfully bidding on a route ex has requested his/her route be put up forbids, will lose his/her bidding rights for one year.
5.	Bids wi be posted for three working days. It will be the responsibility of the Union to inform drivers vbo are off because of sickness or lay-off and the Union Steward can enter this employee's name, if requested Employees on vacation will be given an opportunity to bid on the route upon their return.
6.	If a driver is awarded a route and subsequendy declines to take it, he/she will lose his/her bidding rights for one year.
7.	When two (2) complete routes fall within one (1) bid-on route (override) the driver whose regular bid-on route is affected will have the choice of the two routes irrespective of the calls or weight being evenly divided and provided a second driver is available within half an hour of the driver’s starting time.
IS.	Routing System. Theroutes now established by each driver will be the recognized route of that drivar. Any changes of drivers on these routes vaH be done on the following basis:
(a)	A driver who wishes to change his/her route will put it up for bids. The bidding procedure used will be the one already agreed to between the Union and die Company.
(b)	\Mien two or more routes have to be combined because of low volume then the senior driver of the routes affected will have first choice of doing the combined route(s). If the senior drivers) is then absent for any reason or declines the route, then the most junior driver involved must take the route. The provisions of Section e) will apply for senior drivers declining a combined route.
-30-
(c)	In the event that an out-of-town driver is absent for one or more, then seniority among qualified city driven shall be the governing factor in fillingsaid vacancy.
An out-of-town driver whose route is not scheduled shall be classified as a dty driver for as long as the said route is not scheduled.
(d)	The company will observethe following sequence when filling the vacated city route(s).
1.	Laid-off qualified drivers in accordance vzth Clause 2 of Appendix "D".
2.	Plant back-up drivers subjectto availability.
'	3. Seasonal help drivers.
4,	Outside DriverServices.
(e)	In the event that a driver requests to come off his/her irute on a tarporary basis, e.g., one day, that he/she dsll be only eligible for whatever route remains after Clause 15 has been applied to all other ftill-timedrivere.
Any routes still vacant after this procedure has been completed shall be subject to the procedure as outlined in the last paragraph of section (d).
These procedures shall not apply for vacation coverage for out-of-town drivers. Vacation coverage far out-of-town drivers wi 11 be laxtri in accordance vdththe followingprocedure:
1.	Drivers wishing t o make themselves available for vacation coverage for out-of-town drivers will submit their names to the Driver Supervisor on cr before April 15th annually.
2.	The three senior drivers who submitted their names as above will be accepted as vacation relief drivers for out-of-town drivers for aperiod of one vacation year.
3.	When the vacation schedule for the vacation year has haai completed by the Driver Supervisor, the schedule w i 11 be shown to the three vacation relief drivers. In coder of seniority, vdth the most senior of the vacation relief drivers selecting first, the vastim relief drivers wi select vacation for out-of-town drivers for which they wish to fill in Ear example, the most sarior vacation relief dcirer mst select one vacation period, the second most saiinr vacation relief driver must select one vacation period and the most junior vacation relief driver must select a vacation period. This sequence will be z^&ted until all of the vacation periods for out -of-town drivers have been selected by vacation relief drivers. Vacation relief driven must accept the vacation periods as chosen.
A vacation period is defined as my unit of consecutive working days of vacation taken.
4.	Should it be necessary to change the vacation period for an out-of-town driver, the vacation relief driver who selected the original vacation period will be expected to take the new vacation period.
5.	To fill any temporary vacancy or absence of one day or more on the afternoon shift, die Company will observe the following sequence until filling the above routes:
-31-
1.	Laid-off drivers in accordance with Clause2 of Appendix "DM,
2.	Voluntary fill-in by the driver group.
3.	Plant back-up drivers.
4.	toymal help drivers.
5.	Outside Driver Services.
6.	(a) Eachday the Compeny shall postalistofallslushnins forthatday.
^ Drivers from the driver group whose established and recognized routes are not scheduled fir that day may bid on the slush runs posted
The slush runs shall be allocated on the basis of seniority from amongst the driven who submit bids.
A* Upon completion of the foregoing procedures if an>r slush runs are still vacant, they shall be filled as follows:
-	laid-off driven in accordance with Clause2 of Appendix "DM
-	city drivers
.	plant back-up driven
-	seasonal help drivers
-	outside driver services
-32-
letter of understanding
ARTICLE 19 - HEALTH AND WELFARE
Smoko-Free Facility
With the full support of the Union and the Negotiating Committee the Company will A-mgnat#- die total facility at 150 Barter Rood, Weston as a tobacco smoke-free facility. This will take place in conjunction with the proposed plant and office expansion due to be opaational during the second quartorofl988.
Within eight (8) weeks from die date of ratification the Company will complete its investigation of the possibility of providing an interim non-smoking lunchroom area for interested employees and presort its findings to the Union and Committee.
-33-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Company recognizes employe concerns regarding job security. The Company and the Union understand the importance of the company's cnrtinEd competitive position ii the marketplace and its requirement for economic survival.
The Company prefers to have work &ne by its enployees. However, it may be necessary to have work performed by outside savices.
The relevant factors which the Company will consider before using outside services include: advene effect on employees (i.e. lay-off), availability of required skills, utgmcy of the job; cost and economic factors.
If wo± perfomied by outside services results to layoff of any of the existing employees, the Iftrion wi have rasuree to the grievance procedure.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Ite: Wi i yertim for Mechanics
1.	The parties agree that when the plant	on a Saturday and/or Sunday, the ncdaiks
who normally work in each opoating area wi 11 work overtime unless the employees notify the Caipany in advance that they have other commitmaits.
2.	All weekend overtime will be posted on the maintenance board, normally by Thursday, by means of a log sheet onto \4riA the mechanics will indicate their intent to v«txk. Any refusal towodr wMbe cooaidaedas being at work for overtime rotation purposes.
3.	Iftheplantis operating, theCcnmany will allocatethequalifiedmechanics far the jebstobe done. O&er rcqmred maintenance overtime will be done on a rotational basis by qualified mechanics.
4.	The parties also agree tbatthe Company willkcep posted the overtime for all mechanics and a revision will be done on a quarterly basis. Any imbalance in overtime will be made up, subjeetto business conditions, over the next quarterly period
-35-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
fe: Technological Change
In the event the Company introduces technological change in the form of new equipment, the parties undostand that the affected employees who an determined to be redundant as a result of technological change will be dealt with in accordance with Article 16 and 18 of the Collective Agreement
Furthermore, die Company agrees to meet with the Union two weds prior to die implanentatian of the new equipment in order to discuss issues relating to the displaeanoit of employees.
-36-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Establishment of New Occupations
The Company and Union during the 1992 collective agreement renewal process discussed the establishmmt of two (2) new occupations iithe Maintenance Department
1.	maintenance apprentice
2.	maintenance technologist
However, due to the need to further investigate and finalise the actual requirements of each occupation in accordance with imrgnizrd government standards including educational pre-requisites, the patties agree to defir the discussions to a later date The Company will notify die Union in advance of implementing each occupation and will discuss wage rales and other relevant issues.
-37-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re Training and Education Fund
Hie Company agrees to contribute two carts (2f!) per hour to the United Food and Cammocial WoikerS1 Union Local 175 Training and Education Fund for all hours paid and worked by all bargaining unit employees effective January 15,1995.
Effective January 15, 1998, the above contribution will be increased to a total of time cents (y) per
hour.
-38-
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDING
Ite: Procedure for Staff Reductions
It is agreed that the followingprocedure will apply to staffreductions in excess of 3 working days.
The juftior employee within the affected job classification (referred to as Employee A) will be allowed to either:
1) Displace the most junior employee in the deportment in the same classification and retain his/her rate of pay.
<r
2)	Exercise his/her seniority and displace the nest junior employee within his/her department on the same shift
Q:
3)	Where option 2 above does not apply because Employee A is the most junior employee within the department on the affected shift, he/she tiH be allowed to displacethe most jixiinr employee on his/her shift in mother department
The employee displaced in option 2 by Employee A will be allowed to exercise option 1 and 3.
The employee displaced by a more senior employee under option 1 or 3 will then be moved to the vacancy created by a lay-off of the nest junior employee in the plant.
Affected employees will be allowed to exercise the above3 options only if they can perform the job to the satisfaction of the Company.
An employee displaced to a lower job classification shall not have his/her rate of pay reduced for up to twelve weeks including lay-off after vhidi the loerjob rate will apply.
-39-
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Re: Hours of Work
The Caipany has infonradthe Union of its intent to integrate new products and production lines into the Shopsy*s feality. Hi view cf this, the parties recognize that the hours of vtxk h Appendix "C" ney rot meet the Corpany's business requirements for the efficient scheduling of operations and manpower.
Where the Company is contenplatinga change to Appendix "C", the Cotpany agrees to meet with the thim and Labour-Management Committee to discuss the required changes and die requirements of the business. Alternate shedulas, considered Id be ncxe in keeping vith. the wishes of the employees, may be proposed by the Union, The parties agree ti&the above discussions wi 11 be held with the ultimate goal of improving the operation vhirii in turn improve the welfare of all employees.
Where the Company is contemplating a change to an existing employee's work schedule beyond the Quest's ncjk in Article 10.01, the Urim will give serious ansidsratiai to the Company's proposal and where the parties are in agreement, the new schedulewill become part of Appendix"C".
Where the Company is contemplating a schedulewhich is not listed in Appendix "C" for newjobs or additional jobs which did not exist as of the date of otificataai, the Company agrees to post all new or additional jdbs in acranfancB with Article 17. The new schedule wi be implemented on a throe ninth trial basis. Following the trial period, the Company will again meet with the Union to discuss the new sdhaiile. If the Company is satisfied that the new scheduler's its requirements, the new schedule will became part of Appendix "C". If diring or at the conclusion of the trial period, the Coopany is not satisfied that the new schedule meets its needs, the Company will adjust the starting time as required and commence a new trial period. If the incumbent of thejob does not vat: to move to the adjusted sterling time, he/she wi 11 be allowed to return to his/her previous jdb.
It is understood ttet if the parties are unable to agree to any of the changes discussed above, the currentprovisims in Appendix "C" will raiain in effect.
Agreedthis 20th day of JUly, 1994.
FORUNITEDFOOD AND COMMERCIAL	FOR SHOPSYS FOODS,
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,	AMEMBER CP MAPLE LEAP FOODS INC.,
LOCALS 175 AND 633_____________ 130 BARTOR ROAD, WESTON. ONTARIO
LenRothwell	M. Parkinson
Rcbert Grave	J. DeLuca
Sandra Scali J.M. Hercus
Tom Kennedy
Suat Meral
Teresa Suppa
-40-
MEMORANDUM OP AGREEMENT
B Early ement
All fuU-time employees who are age 60 or overby December 31,1997 and who retire from the service of the Caipany, prior to their sixty-fifth birthday, on January 1, 1998, will receive a lump sum payment vtakh wi 11 be calculated in accordance with the following formulae:
One weeks pay for each completedyear of service to a maximum of 26 weeks pay. Payments will be computed on the of forty (40) hours per week at the employee’s regular hourly rate of pay.
In order to qualify for the above payment, an eligible employee must inform the Company, in writing, ofhis/her intent toretiieon January 1,1998 by no later than November 30,1997.
Agreed this	day of	1997.
For United Food and Ctamercial Wbrkers International Union, Local 633/175
For Maple Leaf Meats Inc.
MAPLE LEAF MEATS
April 30,1998
Labour Canada
Bureau of Labour Information
Collective Agreements
Ottawa, Ontario
K1A 9Z9
DearSir/Madam:
Enclosed fa your library is our Agreement, with the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Locals 175 and 633, signed April 23, 1998.
Yours truly,
Kathy Horgan Human Resources
Enel. 1
5063 North Service Road, Box 5091. Burlington, Ontario L7R4R3
Tel: (905)319-5666 Fax: (905)319-6233