COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD -AND-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL UNION 175 AFL-CIO-CLC
Effective Date: October 13,2006 Expiry Date: October 12,2009
Name
Address......
Phone........
Member ID.. .. Work Address. Work Phone.... Union Steward Phone........
United Food & Commercial Workers Locals 175 & 633 UFCW Canada 2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905)821-8329 www.ufcw175.com
Toll-free outside Metro Toronto 1-800-565-8329 Fax (905) 821-7144
Revised July 2006
LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT LOCAL 175
UFCW CANADA
Dear Fellow Members:
I	wish to welcome new members to Locals 175 & 633 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, and to thank long-standing members for their continued support and assistance over the years.
I hope you will all read this contract and become aware of your rights and privilegesas union members. It is an important document. It identifies and guarantees your income, benefits and job security while you work for your current employer. Like an insurance policy, a warranty for a newcar, orthe deed to your home, if you are not aware of the agreement you entered into, you may not benefit from it.
As a union memberwith a contract, you have the freedom to plan for the future. You will knowwhat your income will be in advance. Your rights and benefits are written down and cannot be revoked, and your job security is a primary element. Non-union workers do not have this protection. Their wages and benefits may be cut at any time, as may their jobs.
Become familiar with your contract. If unsure about an item or if you think your concern is not covered, speak to your Union Steward. He or she is a co-worker trained by the Union to help you with concerns and grievances in the workplace. If the problem cannot be settled by the Steward, a full-time Union Representative can be contacted to assist you.
In addition to the Stewards in the workplace and the Union
Representatives who support them, we also have a team of professionals who provide support.
We should all be proud of our Union’s achievements. We have proven many times that an employer can treat workers fairly and stiil run its business efficiently.
in the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, we are committed to job security in an ever changing social environment Only your Union can be relied upon to protect your rights.
Your Union offers you representation before the Workers Safety Insurance Board. If you are injured on the job, our trained staff will support you and help you in any way they can.
Non-Union workers are at the mercy of their employer. This is one reason our Local Union continues to grow.
Our organizing team works around the clock to help bring other workers into our union. If you know someone who works in a non-union environment, do them a favour and give our organizers a call.
We also believe in the education of our members and Iheir children. Lack of economic resources should not be a hindrance to further education. In this regard, the UFCW offers a number cf scholarships at the local, national and international level. They are for your benefit as Local 175 or 633 members.
In addition, your Union works to keep you up-to-date about legislation concerning your working rights.
Your Local Union represents some 50,000 members across Ontario. As we continueto grow, we have advanced to keep up with the growth in areas cf servicing and all-round members’ support. Included in this booklet is a list of Union representatives and other staff who are here to support you, the member.
Only by all of us working together can we keep what we
have gained over years of hard negotiations and obtain what is rightfully ours in the future. Our labour may be the only commodity we have to sell. Let us not sell it cheaply.
Please feel free to contact me at any time with questions or concerns about the Union. This is your Union. You put the ‘U’ in our Union.
In Solidarity,
Wayne Hanley, President,
Local 175 UFCW CANADA.
OFFICERS
Wayne Hanley Jerry Clifford Betty Party
President Secretary-Treasurer Recorder
Shawn Haggerty Jim Hastings Teresa Magee
Executive Assistant Executive Assistant Executive Assistant
As the elected fi a of Local . , it is our job to ensure the smooth running and day-to-day operations of your Local Union. We represent i than 50,000 members across Ontario, of v 31 approximately 25,000 are retail workers. Others work in a wide \ luc	of it including nursing tv ies, funeral homes,
hotels, e iigpl it and manufacturing plants. This requires rs ti ty	\ k J( and tireless effort Tc accomplish this job,
we are pport t your Union Stewards, Union R i| tc 5. Benefits * f it iti * St Le e and Communications Representatives If e an not u can-n answ * a c j ;i i we have the resources to find out. Remember, we are here to serve you.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
The United Food and CommercialWorkers is one of the largest and most respected unions. You are one of more than 240,000 members in Canada and 1.4-million members in North America
The UFCW is the result of a merger between two of the oldest and most respected unions in North America; the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America and the Retail Clerks International Union. This merger took place on June 6,1979. The UFCW represents workers in nearly all aspects cf Canadian life which ± mirrored in the makeup of Locals 175 & 633.
LOCALS 175 & 633 UFCW CANADA
Your local union, with more than 50,000 members, is the largestUFCW local union, and the largest local union of any union in Canada.
This Local has the expertise, financial stability and resources to provide you, the member, vith the best negotiating team, the best legal assistance, and the best all around service of any union in the country.
LOCALS 175 & 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD LOCAL 175 EXECUTIVE BOARD:
PRESIDENT
Wayne Hanley, Oakville
SECRETARY-TREASURER
Jerry Clifford, Cumberland Beach
RECORDER
Betty Pardy, London
VICE-PRESIDENTS
Ride Aiagierski, Mississauga JeffAIdworth, Brighton Bryan Brarthwa'rte, Chatham Georgina Broeckel, Arthur Barbara CarT, Thunder Bay Bruce Dosman, Hanover William Foley, Burlington David Fox,Napanee Steve Garland, Kitchener Virginia Haggith, Oakland Jim Hough, Burlington Garry Kelly, Lindsay Tim Kelly, Stratford Janice KJenot, Kitchener Carolyn Levesque, Windsor Nancy Melcore, Brampton James Montgomery, Welland
Tony Morello, Angus Kevin Neville, Lunenburg Pat Newell, Port Hope Brian OgiJvie, St Catherines Toni Pettitt, Hawkestone Marc Praill. Harrow FitzroyReid, Toronto Tim Ryan, Thunder Bay Stott Saunders, Woodville Don Schmidt, Thunder Bay Dale Simon, Thunder Bay Andy Spruyt, Fonthilf JuneTowier, Bradford Patricia Tweedie, Niagara Falls Karen Vaughn, Picton Chris Watson, Arthur Coreena Zurkan, Kenora
LOCAL 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
PRESIDENT
Dan Bondy, Amherstburg SECRETARY-TREASURER
Marylou Mallett, Arthur
RECORDER
Neil Hotchkiss, Amherstburg
VICE-PRESIDENT
Brad Kozlowski, Thunder Bay Peter Small, Etobicoke Brad Wigle, Tecumseth
What You Get For Your Union Dues
Higherthan average wages and benefits. According to government statistics, unionized workers make, on average, 38% more in wages and benefits than non-union workers in the same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding investment in yourfuture.
Job Security. Your Union will notletyou be fired or disciplined without just cause, and it is up to managementto prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens of thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitration expenses just to protect your rights. If you are unjustly discharged, your Union will spare no expense in getting you back to work. Does a non-union worker have that kind of security?
Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights are vitally important to your Union. Did you deserve a promotion and not get it? Are non-bargaining unit people doing your work? Were your bumping rights ignored?fc your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairly disciplined for a very minor mistake? The Grievance Procedure allows the Union to fight for your rights. In a non-union workplace you have no rights except what managementchoosesto allow you.
Problems with the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act <r Employment lnsurance?7he Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representing you to government agencies. These services are free to you, should you ever need them. Non-union workers are usually "in the dark" and "out in the cold" in these matters. They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help.
Pensions, Dental Insurance, Sick Pay, Disability insurance, etc. Compareyour benefits package with those of non-union friends and family. Should they be unable to work because of sickness or accident, would they trade their insurance protectionfor yours? You bet they would!
Add up what you paid in Union Dues last year (don't forget that they are tax-deductible). Compare that amount with what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes, beer, movies, cable television or "impulse" gifts.
WHAT IS A UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected front-line representative of the United Food and Commercial Workers. It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rights and to represent you to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A
Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Union Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility. Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Steward to look into a violation of your contract rights unless you are willing to file a grievance if necessary. Their lime is as important as yours. Your Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement, but only if you are willing to see it through.
Despite the trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you’re not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Union Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
UNION SCHOLARSHIPS, TRAINING AND EDUCATION
There area number of scholarships available for Locals 175 & 633 UFCW Canada members, and their children, who are pursuing a Post Secondary education. To find out more about the scholarship program or various courses listed below, please contact the Locals 175 & 633 Training Centre, at (905) 821-8329 or 1 -800-565-8329 or visit the web site, www.ufcwt75.com.
Locals 175 & 633 are also aware of the need for training and education in the workplace resultingfromtechnologicalchange, corporate restructuring and the abandonment by governments of the training and education of the workforce.
To addressthat need Locals 175 & 633 offerthe most advanced and accessible Membership Training and Education programs in Canada. Members can choose from a variety of free educational opportunities including: Computer training delivered from ourtrain-ing centres or over the Internet, English as a Second Language (ESL); Skills Upgrading or Ontario Secondary School Diploma credits delivered in conjunction with localschool boards; and other courses such asCPR and FirstAid. CalltheTraining Centreor visit our Web site for current offerings.
We are also committed to ensuring our stewards are equipped with the knowledgethey need to face their employers and offer an extensive list of 20 plus courses, from introductory to advanced, including Stewardship, Collective Bargaining, Union Organizing; Health and Safety
We were the first Union in Canada to use Mobile Computer Training Labs to bring computer courses to our members in their own local communities. These Labs complement our Training and Education Centres in Mississauga and Hamilton.
In addition, tMoea year the Locals offer fully-paid stewards and members' scholarship programs which are conducted at the Locals' Training & Education Centre in Mississauga Sixty scholarships are awarded annually to stewards province-wide to attend a weeklong, in-depth training and education seminar. The theme of the week is "Labour's History: Past, Presentand Future" to ensure that stewards are well-informed and educated to be representatives of our Union in their workplaces. Nine hours of hands-on computertraining is included Another thirty members' scholarships are awarded for an introductory weeklong computer training course.
We are a Union that is highly committed to making education and advancement a reality for our members
WORKPLACE SAFETY AND INSURANCE ACT ‘WSIA9
Formerly
WORKERS COMPENSATION ACT
The Workplace Safely and Insurance Ad, “WSIA", formerly, Workers Compensation Act, is an insurance program to protect workers from health-care costs and loss of ncome due to job-related disabilities. Here are answers to the most commonly asked questions:
1.	HOW DOES THE WORKER REPORT AN ACCIDENT?
If an accident occurs at work, section 22 (1) of The Act requires a worker to file a claim as soon as possible after the accident that gives rise to the claim, but in no case shall he <r she file a claim more than six months after the accident or, in the case of an occupationaldis-ease, after the worker learns that he or she suffers from the disease.
2.	IS THERE AN EXTENSIONOF TIME?
The Board may permita claimto be filed afterthe six month period expires if, in the opinion of the Board it is just to do so.
3.	WHAT FORMS MUST BE COMPLETED TO RECEIVE BENEFITS?
Section 22 (4)... A claim must be on a form approvedby the Board and musthe accompanied by such informationand documents as the Board may require. Use Form 6 - Employee's Report of Injury.
4.	WHAT CONSENT OF DISCLOSURES REQUIRED?
Section 22 (5)... When filing a claim, a worker must consentto the
disclosure to his or her employer of information provided by a health professional under subsection 37(e) concerning the worker's functional abilities The disclosure is for the sole purpose of facilitating the worker's return to work.
5.	FAILURETO FILE?
Section 22 (6)... If the claimant does not file the claim with the Board in accordance with this section or does not give the consent required by sub-section (5) no benefits shall be provided under the insurance plan unless the Board, in its opinion, decides that it is just to do so.
6.	NOTICE TO EMPLOYER?
Section 22 (7),.. The claimantshall give a copy of his or her claim to the worker's employer at the time the claim is given to the board. The employer must supply a copy of the Form 7, along with ary and all amendments, to the employee.
7.	NOTICE OF MATERIAL CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES?
Section 23 (3)... A person receiving benefits underthe insurance plan or who may be entitled to do so shall notify the Board of a material change in circumstances in connection with the entitlement within 10 days after the material change occurs.
8.	WAGES FOR DAY OF ACCIDENT?
Section 24 (l.yhe employer shall pay a worker who is entitled to benefits underthe insurance plan his or her wages and employment benefits for the day of the injury as if the accident had not occured!
9.	EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS?
Section 25 (I .^Throughout the first year after a worker is injured, the employer shall make contributions for employment benefits in respect to the worker when the worker is absent from work because of the injury. However, the contributions are required only if;
(a)	the employer was making contributions for employment benefits in respect to the worker when the injury occured
and
(b)	the worker continues to pay his or her contributions if any, for the employment benefits while the worker is absent from work.
10.	D U NTO COOPERATE IN RETURN TO WORK?
Section 40 (l.yhe employer of an injured worker shall cooperate in the early and safe return to work of the worker by:
(a)	contacting the worker as soon as possibleafter the injury occurs and maintaining communication throughout the period of the worker's recovery and impairment
(b)	attempting to provide suitable employment that is available and consistent with the worker’s functional abilities and that, when possible, restores the worker's pre-injury earnings
(c)	giving the Board such informatronas the Board may requestcon-ceming the worker's retumto work and
(d)	doing such other things as may be prescribed.
WORKERS DUN?
Section 40 (2),.. The worker shall co-operatein his or her early and safe return to work by:
(a) contacting his or her employer as soon as possibleafter the injury occurs and maintaining communication throughout the period of the worker’s recovery and impairment
(b)	assisting the employer, as may be required <r requested, to iden-t i suitable employment that is available and consistent with the worker’s functional abilities and that, when possible, restores his or her pre-injury earnings
(c)	giving the Board such information as the Board may request concerning the worker’s return to work and
(d)	doing such other things as may be prescribed
11.	NOTICE OF DISPUTE?
Section40 (6)... The employerorthe worker shall notify the Board of any difficulty or dispute concerning their cooperation with each other in the worker's early and safe return to work. A Board mediator maybe assigned to mediate the dispute.
12.	OBLIGATION TO RE-EMPLOY?
Section41 (I Jhe employer of a worker who has been unableto work as a result of an injury and who, on the date of the injury, had been employed continuously for at least one year by the employer shall offer to re-employ the worker in accordance with this section.
Section 41 (4) VWien the worker is medically able to perform the essential duties of his or her pre-injury employment, the employer shall:
(a)	offer to re-employ the worker in the position that the worker held on the date of injury, or
(b)	offer to provide the worker with alternative employment of a nature and at earnings comparable to the workers employment on the date of injury
TIME LIMITS
1 A 30 day time limit on appealing a Board decision about return to work or a labour market re-entry plan made on or after January 1.
1998..
2	A six month time limit on appealing any other Board decision made on or after January 1,1998.
3	A six month time limit on filing a claim.
The changes to the new act are significant and have reduced or limited entitlement for injured workers However, you should never let management talk you out of filing a claim, it is your right In fact it is a violation for an employer to refuse to submit a claim Your local union has a benefit department that will answer any questions you may have in regard to filing or appealing a WS IB claim Contact your union office
EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (formerly UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE)
On June 30,1996 the Employment Insurance Act came into effect. Additional changes became effective January 1,1997 and December 31st 2000. The new system reflects a fundamental restructuring of the old Unemployment Insurance System.
“Whereto Apply?”
Apply at the local Human Resource Centre of Canada. Check the telephone directory under Human Resources Development Canada or Canada EmploymentCentrefor the office nearestyou.
Regular Benefits:
You can receive regular benefits if you lost your job and you can’t find work, provided that you meet these requirements:
. you have been without work and without pay for at least seven consecutive days;
. you have paid into the El account;
. you have worked the required minimum number of hours in the last 52 weeks; the number of hours of work needed, may range from 420-700 hours depending on the unemployment rate in your region.
. there are two exceptions: if this is your first job ever, or your first job after coming back into the workforce after an absence of two years or more, you will need a minimum of 910 hours of work to qualify regardless of the local unemployment rate
In most cases you will receive55% of your insured earnings to a maximum cf $413 perweek. Claimants who are in a low income family (an income of less than $25,921) with children and receive the Child Tax Benefit will receive a Family Supplement based on your Child Tax Benefit Your benefit rate can be increased to a maximum cf 65% but not greater than the maximum benefit rate of $413 (2001).
Claimants can collect benefits between 14 and 45 weeks depending on the unemploymentrate in their region, and the number of hours they have worked in the last 52 weeks.
How to Calculate the Benefit Amount?
The benefit rate is based on your average insured earnings in me last 26 weeks of work. Your insured earnings will be averaged over a number of weeks known as a divisor, which is based on the unemployment rate in your region. The divisor is the greater of.
(a)	the number of weeks of insured earnings in the last 26 week period; or
(b)	the number ol weeks specified in the divisor table
If you worked tor only the minimum number of weeks required to qualify, or for one week longerthan that, then the minimum divisor applies to you.
Intensity Rule:
Any week of regular benefits collected after June 30, 1996 could affect your benefit rate on future claims. Weeks of benefits claimed will stay on your claim history for five (5) years. Working while on a claim can help you to reduce the number of weeks on your claim history. Your claim history is maintained for five years.
Work Credits:
Claimants who work while they receive regular benefits and earn enough to reduce their El cheques will be able to earn work credits to be applied against the intensity rule. The total amount they save the El system by working while on a claim will be converted into weeks of unpaid benefits. Those weeks wii! then be credited against the application of the intensity rule for the next claim in the nextfive years.
Sick Benefits:
Sick benefits are paidfor up to 16 weeks, if you have600 hours of insurable employment in the last 52 weeks or since the start of your last claim. If you get sick after your employment was interrupted for another reason, such as temporary layoff, you maybe eligible with less than 600 hours. Medical reports are necessary.
Maternity Benefits:
If your child is bom or adopted after December 31st, 2001.
You must have worked and paid El premiums for at least 600 hours in the last 52 weeks, or since the beginning of your last El claim. You can start collecting maternity benefits up to 8 weeks before you are scheduled to give birth. However, benefits cannot be received later than 17 weeks after the baby is due or bom, unless the infant is confined to a hospital.
Parental Benefits:
Parental benefits can be collected for up to 35 weeks by both natural and adoptive parents while they are caring for a newborn or adopted child. Underthe new rules a combination cf maternity (biological mothers only), parental and sickness benefits can be received up to a combined maximum of 50 weeks in a 52 week period.
Benefits are paid at 55% of your average insured earnings up to a maximum of $413 per week.
EmploymentlnsuranceCompassionate Leave:
As of January 4,2004, compassionate care benefits may be paid up to a maximum of 6 weeks to a person who has to be absent from work to provide care or supportto a gravely ill family member who is at risk of dying within 26 weeks. Unemployed persons on El can also ask for this type of benefit.
Tb be eligible for compassionate care benefits you must apply and show that
•	your regular weekly earnings from work have decreased by more than 40%; and
*	you have accumulated 600 insured hours in the last 52 weeks or since the start of your last claim. This period is called the qualifying period.
You can receivecompassionatecare benefits to care for one cf the following family members:
*	your child or the child of your spouse or common-lawpartner,
•	yourwife/husband or common-law partner;
•	yourfather/mothen
•	your father’s wife/mother’s husband;
•	the common-law partner of your father/mother.
Common-law partner means a person who has been living In a conjugal relationship with that person for at least a year.
When requesting compassionate care benefits you must provide a medical certificate as proof that the ill family member needs care or support and is at risk of dying within 26 weeks.
Discharge or Quit:
No regular benefits are paid to those workers who quit a job without just cause or who are fired for misconduct. You may appeal a disqualification. Contact your Union if you need assistance with your appeal.
FOR MORE INFORMATION
CONTAC
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT CANADA
OR
CANADA EMPLOYMENT CENTRE
SHOULD YOU HAVE A PROBLEM CALL YOUR
LOCAL UNION REPRESENTATIVE FOR HELP!
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY ACT
Ms work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management and workers live up to their responsibilities under Ontario’s Occupational Health and Safety Act Here is a quick guide to the Act For details, refer to the Act itself, which is found in the small green book which must be posted in every workplace.
Employer’s Duties
Among other things, the employer must:
•	Provide information, instruction and training to a worker to protect
the health & safety of the worker.
•	Acquaint the worker wih any workplace hazard.
. Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
. Cooperate with and assist the health and safety committee and representative.
•	Take every precaution reasonable for the protection of the worker. Supervisor’s Duties
In stores, the Supervisor is normallythe Store Manager. He must:
. Ensure that the worker works in a safe manner and uses all the
equipment, protective devices or clothing that is required.
•	Advise a worker of any potential or actual danger to health and
safety
•	Provide written safety instructions, where required.
•	Be familiar with the Act and regulations.
Workers’ Obligations
•	Use all safety equipment and wear alI protective clothing required by the employer.
. Ffeport any potentially unsafe condition or defect in safety equip-mentto your Supervisor.
. Obey the Health and Safety law and all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulations to your Supervisor.
Workers may not:
•	Remove or turn off any safety device.
•	Useany equipmentorwork in a mannerwhich may endanger yourself or anotherworker.
•	Engage in horseplay of any kind.
The Rightto Refuse Unsafe Work
If you encounter an unsafe conditional work, your first obligation is
to report it to your Supervisor. Once you have done that, you may refuseto work at a job or task where you have reasonto believe that:
•	Any machine or equipment you are supposed to use is fikely to endanger yourself or another worker, or
♦	The condition of the workplace itself is hazardous.
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal. He must then investigate the matter in your presence and that of a health and safety representativeof the workers (normally the Steward or a member of the Health & Safety Committee). If the Supervisor orders you backtowork and you are still notsatisfiedthat the job is safe, you may continueto refuse to work, provided you have reasonablegrounds to believe the condition sti constitutes a hazard.
At this point, the Inspector from the Ministry of Labour must be called in. While you are waiting for him, the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he is informed in the presence of the Health & Safety Committee member, that the job was retused and the reasons for the refusal. This second worker also has the same right to reluse. The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable alternative work, subject to the Collective Agreement
The decision of the Inspector is final Although his order rvaj be appealed, you must return to the job if heso orders, pendingthe outcome of such appeal.
Certified Member
Section48(1) states that a certified memberwho receives a complaint that dangerous circumstances exist is entitled to investigate the complaint.
If in Doubt
If in doubt about the Rightto Refuse, members should consul! their Certified Worker Member, Health & Safety Committee Member, Union Steward or Local 175 Union Representative or call the Ministry of Labour.
The Entitlementto be Paid
Section 43(13) requires the employer to pay Health & Safety Committee members at ‘regular or premium rate, as may be proper.”
INDEX
Article	Page
1	Intent And Purpose............................. 1
2	Recognition................................. 1
3	Union Security................................. 3
4	Management’s Rights............................ 4
5	No Strikes Or Lockouts......................... 5
6	Representation................................. 6
7	Grievance Procedure............................ 9
8	Leaves........................................ 14
9	Wages And Premiums............................ 19
10	Seniority..................................... 19
11	Hours Of Work & Overtime....................  23
12	Designated Holidays........................... 31
13	Vacations..................................... 33
14	Bulletin Boards............................... 35
15	Clothing...................................... 36
16	Safety And Health............................. 38
17	Job Transfers................................. 41
18	Reporting And Call Out Pay.................... 42
19	Miscellaneous................................  43
20	Drivers...................................... 44
21	Benefits..................................... 47
22	Relationships And Communications............. 50
23	Duration..................................... 53
Appendix “A“ (October 2006)...................... 55
Appendix “B” (October 2006)...................... 57
Appendix “A” (October 2007)....................   59
Appendix “B” (October 2007)...................... 61
Appendix “A” (October 2008)...................... 63
Appendix “B” (October2008)..................... 65
4L
INDEX
Article	Page
Letter Of Understanding #1......................... 67
Letter Of Understanding #2......................... 68
Letter Of Understanding #3......................... 69
Letter Of Understanding #4......................... 70
Letter Of Understanding #5......................... 71
Letter Of Understanding #6......................... 72
Letter Of Understanding #7......................... 73
Letter Of Understanding #8......................... 74
Letter Of Understanding #9.......................   75
Letter Of Understanding #10........................ 76
Letter Of Understanding #11........................ 77
Letter Of Understanding #12........................ 78
Letter Of Understanding #13 ....................... 79
Letter Of Understanding #14........................ 80
Letter Of Understanding #15......................   81
Letter Of Understanding #16........................ 82
Letter Of Understanding #17........................ 83
This Agreement Entered Into
As Of The 13th Day Of October, 2006.
Between:
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd.
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
Of The First Part
And
United Food & Commercial Workers, International Union, Local 175, AFL-CIO-CLC
(hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
Of The Second Part
ARTICLE 1 - INTENT AND PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this agreement is in themutual interests of the Company, the Union and the employees, and is to provide for economy of operation, quality and quantity of output, and to establish and maintain a satisfactory procedure to cover the settlement of differences arising out of this Contract, and to set forth those working conditions which have been negotiated. The Union recognizes that in order to provide a proper relationship between the parties, the Company must be kept in a strong competitive market position, which means it must produce at the best possible efficiency and lowest cost, and the Union agrees to support the Company in obtaining such objectives.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of all regular production employees of its plant in Norval, Ontario save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, dispatchers, office and clerical staff, technical staff, sales and service department
-1-
staff, chicken catchers, load checkers, field department staff, watchmen and security staff, cafeteria department staff, water and waste treatment department staff, machine operators, maintenance staff, bus drivers, employees regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week and students employed during a school vacation period.
For the purpose of clarity, the parties agree that for the purposes of this Article 2.01, maintenance staff includes all employees employed in the electrical department, mechanical department, construction department, refrigeration and heating departments and the garage.
2.02	The term “employee” and the word “employees” whenever used in the Agreement shall mean those persons described in the bargaining unit set forth in Article 2.01.
2.03	The Company agrees the foremen, persons above the rank of foremen and all non-bargaining unit personnel will not perform bargaining unit work, except for instruction, or training of bargaining unit personnel, emergency situations or customer adjustments. Customer adjustments shall mean a person designated by the Company to handle customer complaints and adjustments and shall not result in the person so designated doing a regular route.
2.04	When the Company finds it necessary to use nonbargaining unit personnel to do bargaining unit work, they will advise the department steward of the name of the nonbargaining unit person, the job to be performed and the approximate length of time that the non-bargaining unit person will be performing the bargaining unit job. Not included in the notification requirement is washroom relief, emergency situations, employees late for work and relief to attend to Union business.
The Company will not use non-bargaining unit employees to do bargaining unit work except in cases of non repetitive emergency, washroom relief, employees late for
-2-
work, relief for Union business, instruction of new employees and instruction on new modified machinery and training in health and safety.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
3.01	The Company agrees to deduct every week from the earnings of each employee regular Union dues and to remit the total so deducted monthly to the designated officer o f the Union, together with the list of employees from whom such deductions have been made. The dues and initiation report will be provided in the form of e-mail (remit at UFCWHS. com) or computer diskette as well as a hard copy of the dues report being attached to the remittance cheque.
3.02	In order that the Company may have definite instructions as to what amount is to be deducted for Union dues, it is agreed that the Union will promptly notify the Company, in writing, over the signature of his designated officer, the amount of the deduction to be made by the Company for regular Union dues, and the Company shall have the right to continue to rely on such written notification until it receives other written notification from the Union signed with the same formality.
3.03	The Union agrees to hold the Company harmless against all claims, demands, and expenses should any person, at any time, contend or claim that the Company has acted wrongfully or illegally in making such dues deduction.
3.04	Twice the regular monthly Union dues shall b e deducted in any one check-off where the employee was absent or had insufficient pay in the check-off immediately preceding.
3.05	The Company agrees to list the amount of Union dues paid on employees’ T-4 forms for income tax purposes.
3.06	The Company will advise the Union once a month of
-3-
the names, addresses and Social Insurance Number of each new employee, also, the names of employees being separated.
3.07	The Company agrees to deduct after completion of the probationary period the Union initiation fee when presented with a signed application for membership card that authorized such deduction. The Union will advise the Company in writing of the amount of the initiation fee.
As a condition of employment all employees hired after the date of ratification of this Agreement must become and remain a member of the Union in good standing. The Company agrees to have the employee fill out Union application cards as part of the hiring process.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT’S RIGHTS
4.01	Except as, and to the extent specifically modified by this Agreement, all rights and prerogatives of Management are retained by the Company and remain exclusively within the rights of the Company and its Management. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company’s rights include:
(a)	the right: to maintain order, discipline and efficiency to make, alter and enforce, reasonable rules and regulations, policies and practices, to be obeyed by its employees: to discipline and discharge employees for just cause;
(b)	the right: to select, hire and control the working force and employees; to transfer, assign, promote, demote, classify, lay-off, recall, suspend and retire employees, to plan, direct and control operations; to select and retain employees for positions excluded from the bargaining unit (provided the employee so selected had no objection to the promotion) and to transfer employees into the bargaining unit:
4-
(c)	the right: to operate and manage the enterprise in order to satisfy its commitments and responsibilities, theright to determine the location of operations and their expansion or curtailment, the direction of the working forces, the scheduling of operations and production, the subcontracting of work, the number of shifts, the methods, processed and means of production, job content, quality and reasonable quantity standards, the right to use improved methods, machinery and equipment, the right to decide on the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, the number of hours to be worked, starting and quitting times; and generally, the right to manage the enterprise and its business without interference are solely and exclusively the right of the Company; and;
(d)	the sole and exclusive jurisdiction over all operations, building, machinery, equipment and employees shall be vested in the Company.
4.02	The Company agrees that it will not exercise the foregoing rights in a manner inconsistent with the expressed provisions of this Agreement.
4.03	The Company will provide the Union with copies of changes to its written rules and regulations prior to implementation. If the Union wishes to comment on such written rules and regulations, it shall do so within five (5) days of receipt.
ARTICLE 5 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
5.01	The Union undertakes and agrees that while this Agreement is in operation, neither the Union nor any employee, shall take part in or call or encourage any strike, picketing, sit down, slowdown, or any suspension of or stoppage of or interference with work or production which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company; and the
-5-
Company agrees that it will not engage in any lockout during the term of this Agreement.
5.02	Any employee who participates in any of the foregoing conduct may be disciplined or discharged.
5.03	In the event of the Union or employees participating in activity prohibited by Article 5.01 hereof, all seniority rights under this Agreement shall be suspended until such activity ceases.
5.04	The word “strike” and the word “lockout”as used in Article 5.01 and 5.04 above shall have the same meaning given to those words in the current Ontario Labour Relations Act, “as amended from time to time.”
ARTICLE 6 - REPRESENTATION
6.01	The Union may elect or appoint from amongst employees with at least six months’ seniority, Union Stewards from each department listed in Article 6.02. The Union will inform the Company, in writing, of the identity of all Union representatives, and the Company shall not be obliged to recognize such personnel until it has been so informed. In addition and subject to the conditions as foregoing, the Union shall advise the Company of all other Union officials.
6.02	The Union may elect or appoint Union officials from the various departments listed below provided that the number of elected or appointed does not exceed twenty five (25) and provided that the other requirements of this Article 6.02 are complied with. No more than one (1) official may be elected or appointed from a department with less than fifty (5 ^employees.
Where departments have employees working on more than one shift, one (1) Union official may be elected or appointed for each shift where there are less than fifty (5 ^employees in a department on a shift. No more than three (3)
-6-
employees may be elected or appointed as Union officials from any one department. The departments for purposes of this Article are as follows:
(a)	Live Haul;
(b)	Delivery Drivers;
(c)	Shipping;
(d)	Eviscerating;
(e)	Live Receiving;
(f)	Packing;
(g)	cut-up;
(h)	Cut-In-Nine;
(i)	Sanitation;
(j)	Deboning;
(k)	Further Processing;
(l)	New Further Processing;
(m)	Tray Pack
(n)	Tying;
(o)	Breast Deboning;
(p)	Individual Quick Frozen (I.Q.F.);
(q)	Coning;
(r)	Cooler VRT
6.03	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint or select a negotiating committee comprising of not more than seven (7) employees who have at least one (1) year seniority with the Company. The Chief Steward will automatically have a seat on the Negotiating Committee by virtue of his/her position. (The Union will give its best effort to ensure that the negotiating committee is representative of all bargaining unit areas of the Company).
The Company shall pay fifty (50)per cent of eight (8)hours wages for no more than seven (7) employees on the Negotiating Committee, up to a total of five (5 j days per employee (a combined total of thirty-five (35) days) for attendance at negotiation sessions with the Company. Payment shall b e at the employees’ straight time hourly rate.
-7-
6.04	The Union agrees that no Union member or representative will conduct any Union Activities on the premises of the employer without expressed permission of the Personnel Manager or his designate. No Union official shall have access to the premises of the Company without the expressed consent of the Personnel Manager or his designate.
6.05	For the purpose of this Agreement, the stewards together with the officers of the Union shall be deemed to be officials of the Union. The parties hereto agree that the Union officials occupy positions of leadership and responsibility to see that this Agreement is faithfully carried out.
6.06	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint a grievance committee. Such committee shall be composed of the Chief Steward, and Steward from the area in which the grievance arose. Committee members shall not suffer a loss in pay as a result of attendance at grievance meetings with Management. Where possible, such meetings will be held during regular working hours.
6.07	Where a representative of the Union wishes to visit the Company’s premises, he shall request permission for such a visit in advance. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. A representative of the Union having been given permission to visit the Company’s premises shall restrict his activities to the purpose for which such permission was granted.
6.08	The Company agrees to make available for the use of the Union, once per week, a boardroom in which to conduct Union business. The Company has agreed to provide such boardroom on the understanding that the privilege will not be abused.
6.09	During planned absences of the Chief Steward, a designate shall be appointed by the Union to replace the Chief Steward. The designate shall have all the rights and responsibilities of the Chief Steward.
-8-
6.10	The Employer agrees that during the orientation session for new hires the Chief Steward shall be permitted to introduce himself to the new hires and present them with a copy of the Collective Agreement. The Chief Steward will explain general rights and responsibilities.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	The grievance procedures herein provided for are among the most important matters in the successful administration of the Agreement. The Company and the Union therefore agree that the designated grievance procedure, as hereinafter set forth, shall serve and constitute the sole and exclusive means to be utilized by the grievor for the prompt disposition, decision and final settlement of a grievance arising in respect of the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of this Agreement, and the specifically designated grievance procedure shall be strictly followed. Wherever, the term “grievance procedure” is used in this Agreement, it shall be considered as including the arbitration procedure.
7.02	“Grievance” shall mean a complaint or claim concerning improper discipline or discharge, or a dispute with reference to the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of this Agreement.
7.03	The Company shall be under no obligation to consider or process any grievance unless such grievance has been presented to the Company in writing at Step 1 of the grievance procedure within four (4) days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based were known or should have been known by the grievor. However, if the Company does consider or process a grievance which has been presented late, the Company shall not be estopped or precluded at any stage from taking the position that the grievance is late and not arbitrable.
9
7.04	All time limits referred to in the grievance procedure herein contained shall be deemed to mean “work days”.
7.05	No employee shall have a grievance until he has discussed his complaint with his foremen. The employee shall bring the circumstances of his complaint to the attention of the Foremen within four (4) days from the time the circumstances upon which the complaint is based were known or should have been known. The foreman will meet with the grievor and steward as soon as possible to try to resolve the complaint. If the foreman does not promptly settle the matter to the employee’s satisfaction, the employee’s proper grievance shall be processed as follows:
In case of drivers, such time limits shall be extended to ten (10) days.
STEP NO. 1
If an employee has a grievance, the grievance shall within four (4) days referred to in Article 7.03 hereof, be reduced to writing and presented to the department manager. The department manager shall give the grievor a written reply as soon as possible, but not later than four (4) days after such decision. If such reply is not satisfactory to the grievor, the next step must be taken within four (4) days of the department manager’s answer, but not thereafter.
The grievance referred to above shall identify:
(a)	the facts giving rise to the grievance;
(b)	the section or sections of the Agreement claimed violated, if any;
(c)	the relief requested.
and shall be signed by the employee and countersigned by the steward.
STEP NO. 2
At this step, the written grievance shall be presented to the
-10-
Industrial Relations Manager or his designate, within the aforesaid four (4) days of receipt of the department manager’s reply but not thereafter. A meeting will be held between the grievance committee together with the grievor involved and the Industrial Relations Manager, together with other representatives of management within four (4) days of the presentation of the written grievance to the Industrial Relations Manager. A staff representative of the Union may be present at such a meeting if requested by either party. The Industrial Relations Manager shall give his written reply to the steward within four (4) days of such meeting.
If the Industrial Relations Manager’s reply is not satisfactory to the grievor, the next step must be taken within ten (10) days after the delivery of the Industrial Relations Manager’s reply to the steward but not thereafter.
STEP NO. 3
In the event the grievance is not settled at Step 2, the party having carriage of the grievance shall request arbitration of the grievance by giving notice in writing to the other party within ten (10) days from the delivery of the decisionat Step 2 to the steward but not thereafter.
If the request for arbitration is not so given, within such ten (10) day period, the decision at Step 3 shall be final and binding upon both parties to the Agreement, and upon any employee involved.
The notice to arbitrate shall contain the name and address of the moving party’s nominee to the Board and shall also specify all of the outstanding issues of the written grievance to be dealt with by the Board and the remedy sought. The party giving such notice shall be bound by same and shall be restricted to arbitrate the issues presented by the notice.
The recipient of the notice shall within ten (10) days advise the other party, in writing, of the name of the appointee to
-11-
the arbitration board. The two (2) appointees so selected shall, within five (5) days of the appointment of the second of them, appoint a third person who shall be the chairman. If the two (2) appointees fail to agree upon a chairman, within the time limited, the Ministry of Labour for Ontario shall if requested, within the five (5) days from the expiry of the date upon which the two (2) appointees are to appoint a chairman but not thereafter, forthwith appoint a qualified person to be chairman.
7.06	The arbitration board shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision which shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it. The decision of the majority shall be the decision of the arbitration board, but if there is no majority decision, the decision of the chairman shall govern.
7.07	The arbitration board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, nor to adjudicate any matter not specifically assigned to him by the notice to arbitrate specified in Step 3 of Article
7.05	hereof.
7.08	Each party hereto shall bear its own costs of and incidental to any arbitration proceedings. The fees and charges of the chairman of the board of arbitration shall be borne equally by the two (2) parties hereto.
7.09	The time limits and other procedural requirements set out in this Article 7 are mandatory and not merely directory, therefore, failure to put a grievance in writing at the proper step in accordance with the requirements hereof shall be deemed a complete waiver and abandonment of the grievance by the grievor. Any grievance not appealed from one step of the grievance procedure to the next within the specified time limit shall be deemed to be abandoned. No matter may be submittedto arbitration which has not properly been carried through all specified previous steps of the grievance
-12-
procedure within the time specified. The time limits in this Article 7 may be extended if both parties agree.
7.10	A grievance which has been disposed of pursuant to the grievance provisions of this Agreement shall not again be made the subject matter of a grievance. A grievor shall have the right to withdraw the grievance at any stage of the proceedings.
7.11	A decision or settlement reached at any stage of the grievance procedure shall be final and binding upon all parties hereto, including the complaining employee, and shall not be subject to reopening by any party except by agreement in writing. If the grievance is settled at any step of the grievance procedure both the Company and the Union representatives who pass on the same as provided herein shall, after ratification, sign the settlement as endorsed upon the written grievance, so that no question or argumentmay arise as to what the settlement was.
7.12	When an employee’s grievance is settled by the parties or determined by a Board of Arbitration on the basis that the employee is entitled to be reimbursed for wages lost as a result of action on the part of the Company in violation of this Agreement, such reimbursement shall be at the appropriate hourly rate exclusive of any shift premiums for those days he was otherwise available for work and recall at the employer’s plant, but there shall be subtracted therefrom any and all monies the employee received during such period.
7.13	Union Policy Grievance or Company Grievance
A Union policy grievance or Company grievance may be submitted to the Company or the Union, as the case may be, in writing within five (5) days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based were known or should have been known by the grievor. A meeting between the Company and the Union shall be held within five (5) days of the presentation of the written grievance and shall
- 13-
take place within the framework of Step 2 of Article 7.05 hereof. The Company or the Union, as the case may be, shall give its written decision within five (5) days after such meeting has been held.
If the decision is unsatisfactory to the grieving party the grievance may be submitted to arbitration within fifteen (15) days of the delivery of such written decision and the arbitration section of this Agreement shall be followed.
7.14	Discharge Cases and Suspension Cases
A claim by a seniority employee that he has been discharged or suspended shall be treated as a grievance and shall commence at Step 2 of Article 7.05 provided a written grievance signed by the employee and his steward is presented to the designated official of the Company within three (3) days after the discharge or suspension.
The Union shall not question the discharge or suspension of any probationary employee nor shall such discharge or suspension be the subject of a grievance. Where an employee has been discharged or suspended, he will be given an opportunity to interview his steward prior to leaving the Company’s premises provided his steward is available on the Company’s premises.
All discharge or suspension grievances shall be discussed by the parties within seventy-two (72) hours of the grievance being filed.
ARTICLE 8-LEAVES
8.01	Personal Leave
“Leave of absence” shall mean an absence from work requested by an employee in writing and consented to by the Company having regard to the Company’s business requirements. Leave granted shall be in writing covering a specific period of time and shall be without pay or any other form of compensation, and the employee shall not work in any other
- 14-
position during such leave of absence unless agreed to by the Company in writing. Leave of Absence request shall be made to the Personnel Department and may be granted by the Personnel Department in accordance with the provisions of 8.01 above.
8.02	Bereavement Leave
An employee with established seniority, who suffers a loss of current spouse or child, shall be granted five (5) days leave of absence with pay, immediately following the death. If the employee was otherwise scheduled for vacation for some or all of the five (5) day period, the vacation shall be deferred and the paid bereavement leave shall be substituted. If the employee was on compassionate leave or emergency leave at the time of the death, the paid bereavement leave shall also be provided. If a statutory holiday falls within the five (5) day paid leave period, the paid leave shall be extended for an additional day. If the employee was otherwise on leave at the time of the death, then bereavement leave shall be unpaid.
An employee with established seniority, who suffers a loss of a father, mother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister or grandchild, shall be granted up to three (3) days leave of absence with pay provided that the bereavement days fall on regularly scheduled work days of the employee. Such leave shall not extend beyond the day following the day of the funeral.
An employee with established seniority, who suffers a loss of a brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent, shall be granted a one (1) day leave of absence with pay for the day of the funeral, provided that the bereavement day falls on a regularly scheduled working day of the employee.
Bereavement pay for Live Haul Drivers and Delivery Drivers shall be paid at the 592 trailer rate.
8.03	Jury Leave
The Company shall grant a leave of absence to an employee
-15-
who is required to serve as a juror or subpoenaed to appear as a crown witness during his normal working hours. The employer will pay such an employee the difference between his normal straight time hourly earnings and the payment he received for jury service or witness fee, excluding payment for travelling, meals or other expenses. The employee shall present proof of service and the amount of pay received.
8.04	Disability Leave
(a)	An employee who, because of illness or injury requiring an absence from his job shall, upon furnishing medical evidence setting out date(s) or attendance before his physician, employee’s illness or injury and general treatment provided by physician, be granted a sick leave for the duration of the period of his disability due to such illness or injury. The employee shall furnish supplementary medical evidence of disability, from time to time, as required by the Company. The Company shall have access to such medical evidence. Failure to furnish such evidence of disability within five (5) working days of the request will result in termination of the employee’s employment and seniority. The Company will allow an extension up to ten (10) working days if the individual is not fit to obtain a doctor’s certificate within that period of time. The Company reserves the right to have any employee examined by a Company physician in connection with a sick leave.
(b)	When an employee requests a sick leave after the shift has started, they must if requested by the Company present a Doctor’s certificate prior to returning to work which shall not be unreasonably requested. Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees who are habitually absent shall be required to submit medical documentation for each and every absence if requested by the Company.
(c)	It is understood and agreed that regular attendance at
- 16-
work is required of employees, where the record o f an employee indicates too much time off or recurring or repetitive time off, they may be subject to discipline.
(d)	The Company will advise an employee in writing when they are considered as being habitually absent.
8.05	Pregnancy and Parental Leave
The Company will grant pregnancy leave and/or parental leave, without pay, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of Ontario to those employees who ate eligible under the Act for such leave and who make application on forms supplied by the Company. In part, the Act provides as follows:
(a)	an employee who commenced employment at least thirteen (13) weeks before the expected birth date is entitled to a leave of absence without pay.
(b)	The pregnancy leave of an employee shall be no less than seventeen (17) weeks in duration.
(c)	An employee may begin pregnancy leave no earlier than seventeen (17) weeks before the expected birth date.
(d)	The pregnancy leave of an employee shall end no later than seventeen (17) weeks after the leave began unless birth has not yet occurred.
(e)	The parental leave of an employee who takes a pregnancy leave must begin when the pregnancy leave ends.
(f)	Parental leave ends a maximum of eighteen (18)weeks after it begins.
8.06	Union Convention Leave
Employees will be granted a leave of absence without pay in order to attend Union Conventions or conferences subject to the following limitations:
-17-
(a)	no more than one (1) employee may be absent from a department at one time;
(b)	at least two (2) weeks’ notice of a request for such leave will be given by the Union in writing;
(c)	the total number of days absent by all employees in the bargaining unit shall not exceed twenty (20) days in a calendar year.
8.07	Union Leave
An employee who is elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union shall, upon one (1) week’s notice, be granted a leave of absence without pay, for a period not to exceed the term of this Agreement and upon one (1) week’s notice of his desire to return to work with the Company, shall be placed in the position previously held, or one at equal rate of pay, and seniority during such leave of absence shall accrue. This privilege shall be limited to one (1) employee.
8.08	Return to Work
An employee returning to work from a leave of absence, sickness or pregnancy leave, Worker’s Compensation, or vacation will be returned to his regular job or an equivalent job, provided he is able to do the required work and his job is available.
8.09	Modified Work
When an employee has been sick or absent due to compensation or suffering a disability without absence and a doctor recommends modified work, the Company will endeavour to provide the same and the employee will be expected to perform the work assignment provided he is capable of performing the required work.
When an employee is on modified work, overtime will be allocated at the Company’s discretion. Such discretion will not be exercised in a discriminatory or arbitrary way.
8.10	The Company will notify the Chief Steward and the
- 18-
Union Steward of the department of any “return to work meeting” with a WSIB case worker, to allow the Chief Steward and the Union Steward to participate in the meeting, unless the employee objects.
ARTICLE 9 -WAGES AND PREMIUMS
9.01	Appendix “A” attached hereto shall form part of this Collective Agreement.
9.02	Appendix “B” attached hereto shall form part of this Collective Agreement.
9.03	Employees who work beyond or below the hour shall be paid in increments of six minutes. An employee working half or more of six minutes will receive full six minute pay, and employees working less than half the six minutes shall be paid to the previous six minutes. The same formula will apply prior to the hour.
9.04	Employees covered by this Collective Agreement shall be paid weekly via the Company’s direct deposit system. The two (2) employees who are not presently paid weekly via the Company’s direct deposit system shall continue to receive manual cheques.
9.05	Where the Company makes an error on an employee ’ s pay cheque, such error will be corrected by the following pay day provided the employee advises personnel by Tuesday. Errors of eight hours or more will be paid by separate cheque within a week from the date that personnel is notified.
ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY
10.01	An employee shall be considered a probationary employee until he has performed fifty-five (5 5) days of work for the Company during a period of twelve (12) continuous months. (Statutory Holidays considered as a day worked for purposes of probationary periods). During such probation-19-
ary period, he shall have no seniority rights. Upon completion of this period, the employee’s seniority shall be dated from the date the employee commenced his probationary period. Where during an employee’s probationary period, the Company has given him one (1) or more written warnings, it is understood and agreed that the discharge of such employee during his probationary period shall be deemed to be forjust cause.
Where such warnings have been given, no Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration shall have any jurisdiction to alter, modify or amend the penalty nor to substitute any other penalty for discharge. The term “Seniorityemployee” as used in this Agreement shall be deemed to mean an employee who has completed his probationary period.
10.02	For the purposes of applying the seniority provisions of this Agreement, such seniority provisions shall be applied on a plant-wide and departmental basis and only to the extent specifically provided in this Agreement.
10.03	“Plant-wide Seniority” as referred to in this Agreement shall mean the length of continuous service with the Company since the last date of hire.
10.04	“Departmental Seniority” as referred to in this Agreement shall mean the relative standing of an employee within a department based upon his plant-wide seniority.
10.05	For the purposes of this Article 10, the departments for seniority purposes shall be as follows:
(a)	Live Haul;
(b)	Delivery Drivers;
(c)	Shipping;
(d)	Eviscerating;
(e)	Live Receiving;
(f)	Packing;
(g)	cut-up;
-20-
(h)	Cut-In-Nine;
(j)	Sanitation;
(j)	Deboning;
(k)	Further Processing;
(l)	New Further Processing;
(m)	Tray Pack
(n)	Tying;
(o)	Breast Deboning;
(p)	Individual Quick Frozen (I.Q.F.);
(q)	Coning;
(r)	Cooler VRT
10.06	In cases of lay-offs in the plant of less than one (1) day, lay-offs will be done onjob by job basis and plant-wide seniority amongst those performing the job that day shall be the sole consideration.
10.07	In all cases of temporary lay-off i.e. five (5) working days or less, only departmental seniority need be considered.
10.08	In cases of lay-off in excess of five (5) working days plant-wide seniority will be considered.
10.09	In filling permanent job vacancies within a department and in cases of promotion or of increase or decrease of the work force, the following factors will be considered:
(a)	Competence and Qualification
(b)	Fitness and Reliability
(c)	Seniority
Where, between employees, the factors in (a) and (b) are relatively equal, the senior qualified employee will be selected.
10.10	Where an employee has been moved to another j ob because of a lay-off, he shall be returned to the position he held before the lay-off prior to any employee on lay-off being recalled to fill the position.
-21-
10.11	A seniority list will be prepared and posted every month and a copy sent to the Union office.
10.12	The appointment or selection of employees for supervisory positions or for any position not subject to the provisions of this Agreement is not covered by this Agreement, but if any employee on a seniority list is so transferred or appointed and later is transferred back to a position which is governed by this Agreement, then he shall be accredited with the seniority he acquired prior to leaving the bargaining unit and shall have added thereto the time spent while serving outside the bargaining unit up to a maximum of six (6) months.
Such employee will only be permitted to transfer back to the bargaining unit by way of a successful application to ajob vacancy made in accordance with Article 17:01 of the Agreement.
10.13	An employee shall lose all seniority and service rights and be deemed terminated i f
(a)	an employee voluntarily quits;
(b)	if the employee is discharged and not re-instated through the grievance or arbitration procedure;
(c)	if the employee fails to report to work for two (2) consecutive working days without a valid reason;
(d)	if an employee on lay-off fails to return to work after recall within one (1) working day after notification requiring him to return to work except an employee on plant-wide lay-off who is employed elsewhere may return within seven (7) working days after the notification provided that upon receipt of the notification he advises the Company that he is working and where and intends to return to the Company. Pending his return, the Company shall be permitted to fill the position in such manner as it sees fit;
-22-
(e)	if for a period of nine (9) consecutive months die employee docs not perform any work for the Company;
(f)	if an employee fails to return to work immediately after the expiration of any leave granted to him, and;
(g)	if he or she retires.
10.14	It shall be the duty of the employee or laid-offperson to notify the Company promptly, in writing, of any change of address. If an employee or laid-off person shall fail to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of a notice to reach him and any notice sent by the Company by mail to the address which appears on the Company’s personnel records, or telegram to the address which appears on the Company’s personnel records, shall conclusively be deemed to have been received by the employee or laid-off person.
10.15	Where the Company anticipates a lay-off will exceed five (5jdays, the Company will advise the Chief Steward and Union office of the names of employees being laid off. When such employees are recalled, the Chief Steward and the Union office will be advised.
10.16	The word “promotion” as used in this Collective Agreement shall be deemed to mean a permanent transfer to ajob carrying a higher rate of pay or range of rates.
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK & OVERTIME
11.01	It is hereby expressly understood and agreed that the provisions of this Article 11 are for the purpose of computing overtime and shall not be construed to be a guarantee of or a limitation upon the hours of work to be done per day or per week or otherwise, nor a guarantee of working schedules.
11.02	The normal work week for employees other than Live Haul Drivers or Drivers doing mileage runs will be composed of forty (40) straight time hours worked in the week.
-23-
Employees will be scheduled to be off work two (2) days per week. The first (1st) day shall be considered Saturday and the second (2nd) day shall be considered Sunday.
11.03	An employee shall be paid overtime at the rate of time and one-half (l%)the employee’s straight time rate of pay exclusive of shift premiums for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day. An employee shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (l%)the employee’s straight time rate of pay exclusive of shift premiums for all hours worked on their sixth consecutive day of a work week.
Employees working a seventh (7th) consecutive day of a work week shall receive two (2) times their straight time rate of pay exclusive of shift premiums.
11.04	In no case will there be duplication or pyramiding of overtime and any other premium compensation.
11.05
(a)	Each employee shall be scheduled for two fifteen (15) minute breaks during their shift at times designated by the Company but breaks will not be changed by more than Vi hour from normal break times. If the shift does not continue for more than two hours after the end of the unpaid lunch, only one fifteen (15) minute paid break will be provided that day. An additional break will be given if an employee works more than eight hours (8.5 hours inclusive of unpaid time) and for every two (2) continuous hours of work thereafter.
Breaks shall be timed as “time off the line” and shall include HACCP cleaning requirements.
11.05
(b)	The Company has the right to introduce a revised break schedule for the IQF department for the purpose of facilitating continuous flow as follows:
Employees may be scheduled for three equal 20 minute breaks during the regular production day.
-Z4-
The first break would be scheduled to commence not less than 60 minutes into the shift and not more than 180 minutes into the shift.
The second break would be scheduled to commence not less than 180 minutes into the shift and not more than 340 minutes into the shift.
The third break would be scheduled to commence not less than 360 minutes into the shift and not more than 460 minutes into the shift.
5 minutes of the first break shall be unpaid. The second 20 minute break shall be unpaid. 5 minutes of the third break shall be unpaid.
If the shift is 360 minutes or less, the third break will not be provide. An additional break will be given if an employee works more than eight hours (8.5 hours inclusive of unpaid time) and for every two continuous hours of work thereafter. Overtime breaks will be the same duration as 11.05(a) breaks, unless the Company, in its discretion, decides to provide longer overtime breaks for purposes of continuous flow.
Breaks shall be timed as “time off the line” and shall include HACCP cleaning requirements.
11.06	Employees shall receive an unpaid lunch period of at least one half (V4) hour in each day and lunch breaks will be between the 3rd and 5th hour worked.
11.07	It is understood and agreed that the Company may obtain overtime replacement in such manner as it sees fit.
(a)	Overtime is completely voluntary except in circumstances beyond the control of the Company, i.e. mechanical breakdown, power failure, inclement weather delaying arrival of birds to the plant. In these circumstances the Company may require the employees to
25 -
work by reverse departmental seniority if enough volunteers cannot be obtained.
(b)	The Company agrees to post by Thursday noon on a weekly basis for the following week a list of employees that have indicated that they wish to work overtime and the days they are willing to do so. It is from this list that the Company will assign overtime by department on a seniority basis starting with the most senior employee as follows:
(i)	first from those employees who indicate they will work a complete week of overtime, then
(ii)	from those employees who indicate that they will work partial week of overtime. The employee who is requested to work overtime must be notified the shift before.
Once the employee has signed for overtime and the Company does not schedule their name for overtime then the employee will have no further obligation to work overtime on that particular day.
If the Company is unable to secure sufficient employees from within a department to work overtime, then overtime will be assigned, on a seniority basis, to employees in the same plant (11.11 definition) who have signed the list.
(c)	Where overtime is available in an employee’s own department, that employee will be expected to perform such overtime duties in his own department before being considered/offered overtime in another department. The Company will endeavour to work as many as possible of the employees that can not work a full week of overtime.
(d)	Where an employee accepts additional hours prior to the commencement of his scheduled shift and fails to
-26-
complete his regular shift on that day he will not be offered any such additional hours for ten (10) working days thereafter.
11.08
(a)	An hourly paid employee who works on a scheduled shift that commences between 2:00 p.m. and 4:59 a.m. shall receive a shift premium of forty-five (450) cents per hour for all hours worked. An employee who qualifies for shift premium will not lose their premium by starting at the request of the Company prior to their normal shift.
(b)	Where an hourly paid employee commences work prior to the start of their scheduled shift and starts between the hours listed above they shall receive the shift premium for all hours worked.
(c)	In the shipping department, where an hourly paid employee works for more than three continuous hours in the freezer, he shall receive a premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour for all hours worked in the freezer.
11.09	When the Company finds it necessary to go to a second shift operation they will first ask for volunteers. Should enough volunteers not be available, the Company will use reverse seniority by the job to secure the required number of employees. When new employees have been trained the employee who has been transferred to the second shift, will be returned to the day shift if he sorequests. The training period shall not exceed the probationary period. Employees may apply to be transferred from one shift to another. Such applications shall be honoured before new employees are hired.
11.10	The Company agrees that anytime there is a shortage of hours in a plant, part-time employees and students in that plant shall always be laid off first. For the purpose o f this Article only, a “plant” is defined as follows:
-27-
Plant 1	- Eviscerating and Live Receiving
Plant 2 (a)	- Packing, Cut-Up, Cut-in-Nine, Tray Pack,
Tying, Cooler VRT
Plant 2 (b)	- Breast Deboning, Individual Quick Frozen
(I.Q.F.), Coning
Plant 3	- Deboning and Further Processing (Weiner
Plant)
Plant 4	- New Further Processing (Deli Plant)
Sanitation Department Shipping Department
Delivery Department Live Haul Department
As a result, affected full-time employees shall be able to exercise their seniority Company wide to bump provided they have the skill and ability to perform the job and overtime does not result.
The Company is permitted to use summer vacation replacements. However, should a full-time employee be laid off for a full shift he shall be able to bump summer vacation replacements Company wide.
This article does not apply to regular students employed on week-ends in retail sales department
11.11	Plant employees working twelve (12) continuous hours or more shall receive two (2) times their hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) continuous hours. Drivers working thirteen (13) continuous hours or more shall receive two (2) times their hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of thirteen (13) continuous hours.
11.12	The Company will schedule the most senior employees to start on the early or first shift if so desired; no
-28-
senior employee will be required to start later because of only working eight (8) hours.
11.13	Each employee, with the exception of production plant employees with less than two (2) years seniority will be guaranteed thirty-six (36) hours of work each week subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Any hours of work offered and refused by an employee will be deducted from the guarantee
(b)	Time missed due to illness or layoff of one day or more will be deducted from the guarantee
(c)	Time missed due to reasons beyond the control of the company which prevent the Company from operating such hours will be deducted from the guarantee;
(d)	Statutory Holiday hours will be considered hours of work and will be deducted from the guarantee
Production plant employees with less than two (2) years' seniority, may have a normal work week of up to forty (40) straight time hours during the first two (2) years of their employment notwithstanding Article 11.02.
11.14
(a) The Chief Steward will be provided with schedules of hours for each plant department setting forth tie normal times for work to begin and end on every day in the week for the department, or for groups or individuals within the department. Except by mutual consent the hours prescribed in the schedules shall not exceed eight (8) hours daily and forty (40) hours weekly.
The daily hours prescribed in the schedules may be altered as required for the operation and improvement of the business. The Company however agrees that except by mutual consent the schedule of individual employees shall not be changed without three days' notice.
-29-
The requirement for three days’ notice shall not apply where the change in schedule is made necessary because of absenteeism or other reasons beyond the control of the Company. In such cases the employee will be given as much notice as possible. Reasons beyond the control of the Company for purposes of this article shall be mechanical breakdown, power failure, gas service interruption, water service interruption, inclement weather delaying arrival of birds to the plant, absence of inspectors or veterinarians. The Company will endeavour to provide greater than three (3) days notice in the event of a substantial schedule change.
On those occasions where short hours are in effect due to a shortage of available work the starting and finishing times of shifts may be altered without such changes being considered schedule changes under the provision of the above paragraphs. When advising employees of such shorter hours the Company will indicate the latest finishing time, such time will not be more than two (2) hours from the actual finish time.
(b) If the Company requires employees to wait in the cafeteria due to delays as a result of mechanical breakdown, power failure, inclement weather delaying the arrival of birds to the plant or absence of inspectors or veterinarians, the employees affected will be paid for all waiting time at their straight time hourly rate. It is understood and agreed that such employees must, if requested to do so by the Company, perform any other work during this time. The Company agrees to assign employees in accordance with Article 17.04.
11.15	A new shift may be established for the sanitation department of up to two (2) days per week, twelve (12) hours per day, twenty-four (24) hours per week. Employees regularly assigned to this shift shall be considered fiill time regular production employees, for purposes of Article 2.01 and
-30-
Article 11.11. Article’s 11.02, 11.03 and 11.14 shall have no application to employees working this shift. Such shift shall be scheduled for Saturdays and Sundays.
ARTICLE 12 - DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
12.01
(a)	The following days shall be observed as holidays with pay for seniority employees. Seniority employees shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay at the regular straight time hourly rate as holiday pay.
The designated holidays are:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Simcoe Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Employee’s Birthday
Floater (will be Heritage Day if legislated)
(b)	If the Employee’s birthday falls on a Saturday, Sunday, Statutory Holiday, or during the employee’s approved vacation schedule, they shall be allowed an extra day off or an extra day’s pay at straight time rate of pay at the employee’s option. The day off to be a mutually agreed day between the employee and the Company.
12.02	Where a designated holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday o r the following Monday.
12.03	Effective the date of ratification Statutory holiday pay for Live Haul Drivers and Delivery Drivers shall be paid at the 592 trailer rate.
-31 -
12.04	Where a Live Haul Driver works on a statutory holiday, he shall be paid two (2) times the live haul statutory holiday rate as outlined in 12.03 above, in addition to his statutory holiday pay.
12.05	An employee shall only be considered to have worked on a designated holiday if he is required to work during the period he would have worked had the designated holiday been a normal work day for the plant.
12.06	In order to qualify for payment of any of the holidays designated in Article 12.01, the employee must work at least seven (7) hours of the scheduled shift on the declared work day immediately prior to the holiday and at least seven (7) hours of the scheduled shift on the declared work day immediately following the holiday.
An employee who is otherwise eligible but fails to work the shift before or the shift following the holiday due to an absence authorized in advance by the Company shall not be disqualified from receiving holiday pay.
An employee who is otherwise eligible but fails to work the shift before or the shift following the holiday due to an injury for which Workers’ Compensation is received, hospitalization or an absence authorized by the Company shall not be disqualified from receiving holiday pay.
12.07	The Company agrees to pay an employee who would otherwise qualify for designated holiday pay, but who is receiving sick leave pay or workers’ compensation the difference between sick leave pay or workers compensation and the holiday pay, as the case may be. This provision, will only apply when the employee is receiving weekly sick leave benefits, or if on workers’ compensation, for a period not to exceed the maximum stipulated by the sick leave benefits insurance plan.
12.0$ Where a Delivery Driver works on a designated
-32-
holiday and is engaged in a mileage run, he shall receive two (2) times the Delivery Driver hourly rate in addition to the rate for the run.
An employee who is required by the Company to work a designated holiday shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times the employee’s straight time rate of pay for all hours worked. The provisions of this Article 12.08 do not apply to an employee who has had the holiday off and starts another shift before the end of the designated holiday.
12.09 A Delivery Driver on a mileage run shall only be considered to have worked on a designated holiday if he is required to work during the period he would have worked had the designated holiday been a normal work day for the plant.
ARTICLE 13 -VACATIONS
13.01	Employees with less than one (1) year’s continuous service as of June 30th in any year shall accumulate vacation at the rate of one half {¥2) day per month for each full month of service from the date of their employment to June 30th in any year and shall be granted vacation pay in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act.
13.02	An employee having at least one (l)year’s continuous service with the Company as of June 30th in any year shall be entitled to two (2) week’s vacation with pay computed at the rate of four (4%) percent of the employee’s earnings with the Company (excluding previous year’s vacation pay) in the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding such June 30th.
13.03	An employee having at least five (5)years’ continuous service with the Company as of June 30th in any year shall be entitled to three (3) weeks’ vacation with pay computed at the rate of six (6%) percent of the employee’s earnings with the Company (excluding previous year’s vacation
-33-
pay) in the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding such June 30th.
13.04	An employee having at least nine (9) years’ continuous service with the Company as of June 30th in any year shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay computed at the rate of eight (8%) percent of the employee’s earnings with the Company (excluding previous year’s vacation pay) in the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding such June 30th.
13.05	An employee having at least twenty (20) years’ continuous service with the Company as of June 30th in any year shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation with pay computed at the rate of ten (10%)percent of the employee’s earnings with the Company (excluding previous year’s vacation pay) in the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding such June 30th.
13.06	An employee having at least twenty-five (25) years’ continuous service with the Company as of June 30th in any year shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation with pay computed at the rate of twelve percent (12%) of the employee’s earnings with the Company (excluding previous year’s vacation pay) in the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding such June 30th.
13.07	Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Article 13, when an employee is discharged for just cause he will receive vacation pay in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
13.08	Employees shall advise the Company on the appropriate form, by January 15th, of any year of the time they prefer to take vacation during that year. The Company will advise the employees by March 1 st of that year whether or not their vacation request is approved. When the Company has granted vacation, employees may exchange vacation periods only with the consent of the Company. Where there
-34-
is a conflict between two (2) or more employees regarding preferred time for vacation, the Company will consider departmental seniority in assigning the vacation subject to the Company having the right to retain enough qualified employees to perform the work. The Company will provide the Chief Steward of the Union and the Union office with a copy of the vacation schedule by February 21st. After an employee has been advised of his vacation, the Company shall not alter his vacation.
13.09	If a designated holiday falls within an employee’s vacation period, the Company will allow the employee a compensatory day’s holiday with pay or make payment for the designated holiday. Employees shall advise the Company at least two (2) weeks prior to leaving on vacation whether they wish to receive compensatory day’s holiday or to be paid for the designated holiday.
13.10	No employee shall be granted more than two (2) weeks [ten (10) working days] vacation between June 21st and September 21st of any year. Leave requests will be considered by seniority for any time beyond the two (2) week period, with a limitation upon how often the employee may request such leave.
13.11	The Company agrees to provide the employees vacation pay on a separate direct deposit in accordance with Article 9.04,
13.12	All banked vacation pay will be paid out by July 15th of each year.
ARTICLE 14 - BULLETIN BOARDS
14.01	The Company agrees to provide the Union with two (2) enclosed bulletin boards for the exclusive use of the Union, one (1) in the cafeteria and one (1) in the transportation department. The Union agrees that it will use the space to post notices and information regarding the Union
-35-
and its activities. Such notices shall be initiated by a designated Union official prior to posting. The Union agrees that it will not post notices containing adverse comments about the Company or its management. The Company agrees to provide the Chief Steward with a key to the cafeteria bulletin board and the transportation stewards will be provided with keys to the bulletin board in the transportation department.
14.02	The Union will not distribute or cause to be distributed on the property of the Company, for or on its behalf, printed matter, except with the written permission of Management.
ARTICLE 15 - CLOTHING
15.01	The Company will continue to supply aprons, hair nets, gloves and beard nets, where required and in addition launder able outer work clothing where specified by the Company. The Company will record the names of employees whose aprons disappear and should they continue to lose aprons the employee will be charged for a new apron. The Company will provide two (2) smocks daily for employees in Live Receiving. The Company agrees to provide a clean smock daily to each production employee who requests one.
15.02	The Company agrees to pay a yearly allowance towards the purchase by employees of safety footwear for their use at work. Such allowance will be one hundred forty ($140.00) dollars. The employee shall provide a receipt proving purchase of safety footwear. The Company agrees that the fiill amount of the allowance can be applied to multiple purchases. Effective October 13, 2007, the boot allowance shall be one hundred and forty five ($145.00) dollars. Effective October 13, 2008, the boot allowance shall be one hundred and fifty ($150.00) dollars.
15.03
(a) The Company agrees to provide freezer jackets for the use of employees required to work in the freezer or in
-36-
areas maintained below 0°C. The Company will make available freezer pants for employees required to work in the freezer for extended periods of time. This provision does not include employees in and out movement in the course of their regular duties.
(b) The Company will provide freezer gloves for freezer employees, drivers and shunters, when required. The Company further agrees to provide, upon request, two (2) hoods per year (forunder hard hats) for freezer and cooler employees.
15.04
(a)	The Company agrees to supply to delivery drivers uniforms consisting of three pants, one dual purposej acket, five shirts, five short sleeved shirts and two (2) winter parkas. Live Haul Drivers who perform delivery work one day or more per week, shall be provided with one pair of pants, one dual purposej acket, two shuts, two short sleeved shirts and one winter parka. The uniforms shall be mandatory and paid 100% by the driver in the first year of employment. After one year the Company will pay 100% of the costs of uniforms. The wearing of all parts of the uniforms is mandatory. Jackets and parkas will include conspicuous (reflective) material.
(b)	The Company will supply two (2) types of material to drivers, light and heavy weight for uniforms. Each driver will have a choice of the material or a combination of both for the purpose of winter or summer.
15.05
(a)	Company to supply persons working in the coolers (including the Cooler VRT) with outer clothing (insulated coveralls). The employee will be required to wear the clothing supplied. Live Haul Drivers will be supplied with a pair of coveralls per day and winter parkas for yard people. The Company will launder coveralls.
37-
(b)	The Company agrees to give employees a choice on replacements of a parka or insulated coverall. The Union acknowledges that the Company will not be responsible for the laundry of the insulated coveralls or coverall liners.
15.06	The Company will supply two (2) pairs of coveralls daily to Live Haul Drivers and thereafter on a replacement basis. The Company will supply two (2) coverall liners to Live Haul Drivers during the term of the Collective Agreement. Such liners will be given within one month of ratification. The Company will supply reflective vests for the use of Live Haul Drivers, at their option.
15.07	The Company shall provide two (2) rain suits per year to each Live Haul Driver and each yard worker. The Company shall provide one (1) rain suit per year to all Delivery Drivers. Rain suits will include conspicuous (reflective) material.
15.08	Drivers who wish to wear hats will wear hats supplied by the Company. The Company will purchase two types of hats with the Maple Lodge logo for drivers in the Live Haul and delivery areas. The hats will be a baseball cap and a Gatsby hat. The Company further agrees to purchase toques for the Live Haul area.
15.09	Employees in the Wiener Plant, Deli Plant, Plant 2(a) and Plant 2(b) shall be provided with quilted jackets. Consistent with 15.05(b), the Company shall not be responsible for laundering.
ARTICLE 16 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
16.01	The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees at the plant during working hours of their employment.
16.02	The Company and the Union will name an in-plant
-38-
safety and health committee comprising of not more than five (5)Management and five (5JUnion representatives who are employees of the Company. Such committee shall meet once a month. One (1) Management representative and one (1) Union representative who are members of the committee shall make a safety tour of the plant once a month. Each member of the Union Safety Committee, if available, will rotate on a monthly basis for the plant safety tour.
The committee will be given one hour of preparation time per month in addition to meetings, plant tours and other duties. The Union shall select one (1) certified member from the committee for each shift and one (1) alternate certified member from each shift to carry out the duties of a certified member. Only one (1) member per shift will be designated to carry out the duties of a certified member representing Union members.
The Company agrees to pay the cost of training certified members.
16.03	An employee who is injured at work and requires medical attention and who a doctor determines is unable to return to work shall be paid for the balance of his regular hours in the day upon which the injury occurred.
16.04	Employees injured at work will be provided with transportation to their home, or for medical attention and then back to work or home after the necessary medical attention. Thereafter the injured employee may attend their family physician if so desired.
16.05	The Company will provide an adequately equipped first aid room with a qualified attendant in charge.
16.06	For any accident in which a critical injury, as defined by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, occurs, the accident scene must be left undisturbed until it has been reviewed and released by a joint accident review committee
-39-
composed of one Management and one Union representative of the health and safety committee. In the event that the health and safety committee members are not present in the plant, a report of the accident will be provided to the health and safety committee in place of review and release by the accident review committee. The Company agrees that it will appoint a management health and safety committee representative who is working on shift work.
16.07	Where drivers identify delivery locations which they believe involve a health and safety risk, the Company will make its best efforts to resolve the problem with the customer. Where a dispute develops over the resolution of such problems, the matter will be referred to the Health and Safety Committee.
16.08	The Company agrees to make every effort to keep the weight of the boxed beef between fifty (50) lbs. to seventy-five (75) lbs.
16.09	An Accident Review Committee shall be formed, which will be a subcommittee of the Joint Health and Safety Committee. The Accident Review Committee shall include two (2) Union representatives - the Chief Steward and the Union co-chair of the JHSC or their designates.
The Company will provide the Accident Review Committee with an up-to-date weekly report of any accidents or safety incidents in the workplace. Follow up meetings will be held on a regular basis to discuss such accidents or incidents and means for preventing recurrences. Such meetings will generally be scheduled for one (1) hour periods.
16.10	The Company and the Union agree that non-rotation of certain jobs in some departments may pose a threat to the health and safety of those employees working in that department. The Company agrees to implement job rotation for all jobs in the plant where rotation is discussed and required. Jobs will be rotated in a fair and equitable manner.
-40-
ARTICLE 17 - JOB TRANSFERS
17.01	When a permanent job opening becomes available the Company agrees that all permanentj ob openings will be posted on the designated Company bulletin boards for three (3) days. Employees may apply for the said opening within the three (3) days.
The successful applicant will be selected in accordance with 10.09 of the Collective Agreement within five (5) working days. Job postings are limited to the originaljob and the first vacated job only and the Company will be under no obligation to post any job beyond what is provided for in this clause.
The Company agrees to transfer the successful applicant within fifteen (15)working days of their selection to the newjob.
Employees transferred pursuant to Article 17.01 and new hires shall not be permitted to apply for another job posting for nine (9) months after the date of the transfer.
17.02	The Company agrees to post the vacant delivery routes (runs) within the drivers’ group first, before posting plant wide. The Company further agrees to post all vacancies within the live haul area.
17.03	An employee who is transferred to a different job classification within the bargaining unit shall be paid while so employed as follows:
(a)	If the transfer is for the convenience of the Company and if the rate of pay in the classification to which he is transferred is less than the employee’s regular rate of pay, he shall receive his regular rate of pay.
(b)	If the transfer is for the convenience of the employee, or to enable him to avoid lay-off, and if the rate of pay in the classification to which he is transferred is less than the employee’s regular rate of pay. he shall receive such lesser rate.
-41-
(c)	If the transfer is for a higher rate of classification the employee will receive the higher rate of pay.
(d)	Temporary transfers shall be deemed to be replacements for employees who are temporarily absent and not the movement of employees required to complete the daily production requirements.
(e)	When the Company decides to transfer employees temporarily, full consideration shall be given to seniority on a departmental basis or job classification basis.
17.04	Where the Company decides that it is necessary to transfer employees from one department or job to another and where employees asked to transfer do not volunteer to accept the transfer the Company shall have the right to transfer the most junior employee in the department who has the skill necessary to immediately perform thejob. Students will be the first transferred, provided they have the skills necessary to immediately perform thejob.
ARTICLE 18 - REPORTING AND CALL OUT PAY
18.01	Except in cases of emergency, including power failure or mechanical breakdown, where notice is not possible, employees reporting for work at their regular starting time, who have not been notified not to report to work, will be offered at least four (4)hours’ work or at the option of the Company four (4) hours’ pay in lieu of work.
Employees absent on the previous day shall not receive payment pursuant to this Article 18.01 unless they have notified the Company that they are returning to work on that day.
18.02	Where an employee is called in to work outside his normal working hours, he shall receive four (4) hours’ pay at his regular straight time rate of pay for the hours actually worked or the appropriate rate, whichever is the greater.
-42-
18.03	An employee reporting for work as designated shall receive pay from the time so designated upon reporting for work.
ARTICLE 19 - MISCELLANEOUS
19.01	In order to facilitate the intent and purpose of our Collective Agreement, the Company and the Union agree that a proper working relationship must be maintained between the Shop Stewards and the Area Foremen. In instances of normal disciplinary action the Company will endeavour to give the Area Steward an opportunity to advise employees of forthcoming discipline prior to the Foreman issuing formal discipline to the employee. The Company will inform the Union Steward of all pertinent information which is not of a confidential nature and that relates to impending discipline. The Union and the Company will work together to reduce frivolous grievances.
19.02	The Company agrees to provide the Chief Steward and the Union office with a copy of notices of discipline given to employees. Such notice will indicate the reason for which the discipline is being imposed.
19.03	Prior to the implementation of any new jobs, the Company will inform the Union of the new job and the proposed rate. The Company agrees to meet within 10 days with the Union to allow them to make representations to the said job and rate if so requested.
19.04	Lead Hand shall be defined as a person who performs work and transmits orders and shall have no authority to hire, fire, or discipline other employees or to recommend the same and shall be a Union member. The Company may appoint temporary lead hands, at its discretion, for up to two (2) weeks, without triggering the posting requirements.
19.05	Employees are to scan their own scan cards, no other employee or member of management is to scan an employee’s scan card.
-43 -
19.06	All employees are responsible for keeping Personnel informed of their correct address, phone number, beneficiary, dependant coverages, persons to notify in case of accident or illness, change in marital status, Ontario Health Number and Social Insurance number, and are responsible for notifying Personnel of any changes.
19.07	During negotiations the Company expressed its concern about absenteeism. Employees recognize that regular attendance on their part is required to allow the Company to operate.
ARTICLE 20 - DRIVERS
20.01
(a)	A Delivery Driver who completes twelve (12) continuous hours of work or longer and who is still further than seventy-five (75) miles from the plant, may elect to book off for up to eight (8) hours and engage lodging.
(b)	A Live Haul Driver who finds it necessary to rest after leaving the farm for the return trip to the Company may stop for up to Vi hour. Any stops in excess of lh hour must be reported to the Driver’s Dispatcher.
20.02	Drivers will be permitted to take an unpaid lunch period of up to thirty (30) minutes during their shift.
20.03	Where possible the Company will provide help to Live Haul Drivers in loading trailers at the farm.
20.04	Delivery Drivers required to make deliveries with trailers shall be given help after mutual agreement between Driver and the Company.
20.05	The Company agrees to pay the cost of parking tickets incurred by Drivers where delivery was not possible otherwise.
-44-
20.06	Live Haul Drivers drawing birds from the U.S. and required to lay over will receive the 592 trailer rate for each day of lay-over.
20.07	Drivers required to lay over overnight will receive a lay-over allowance of thirty-five dollars and ninety one cents ($35.91). Effective October 13, 2007 the rate shall increase to thirty-six dollars and eighty four cents ($36.84). Effective October 13, 2008 the rate shall increase to thirty seven dollars and eighty seven cents ($37.87).
20.08	The Company and the Union agree that drivers will operate all Company vehicles within reasonable confines of the law. The Union agrees that no Driver will operate a Company vehicle in excess of posted speed limits to a maximum of one hundred kilometres (100 km) per hour. The Union further agrees that no driver will operate any equipment owned by a customer or a grower.
20.09	Drivers from the Live Haul Driver group who have completed their probationary period, and have been certified to run outside the province or country, will on a voluntary basis be added to separate lists for hauling loads outside the province or country or doubles. The loads will be rotated among the drivers on the list. If a driver is unable to perform the run (out of the province, country or double) he will advise dispatch at least twelve (12) hours in advance.
20.10	All Live Haul Drivers to call dispatch during business hours (prior to 4:30 p.m.) for loads that night. Sunday night loads’ drivers to call dispatch prior to 4:30 p.m. on Fridays.
20.11	Any driver involved in more than one preventable accident in any six (6) month period will be removed from driving and will work in the yard at the corresponding rate for a period of one week for re-training. The provisions of this Article shall apply to the first such incident of more than one minor accident within six (6)months.
-45-
20.12	Live Haul Drivers required to wait at farms for more than 1 Vz hours will be paid the current delivery driver tractor trailer hourly rate for the time in excess of 1 Vz hours..
When a Live Haul driver breaks down and is required to stay on duty, he shall be paid the current delivery driver tractor trailer hourly rate for all hours he is on duty during the breakdown. If the driver on breakdown is not required to stay on duty he shall book off and seek accommodation and will be paid the driver lay-over rate of (592 trailer rate) for each day of the lay-over because of the breakdown.
20.13	Drivers shall be supplied with accident report forms and incident report forms. They will be completed on request.
20.14	Highway and Live Haul Drivers asked to work city after a regular run to receive one and one half (1%) applicable driver’s rate.
20.15	Highway drivers required to make a pick up shall receive twenty one dollars and sixty one cents ($21.61) for that pickup. Effective October 13, 2007 the rate shall become twenty two dollars and seventeen cents ($22.17). Effective October 13, 2008, the rate shall become twenty-two dollars and seventy nine cents ($22.79).
20.16	The Company agrees that it will not schedule brokers. The Company further agrees brokers will not be used unless Company drivers are not available to pick up the load and deliver it to the plant within the time required by the Company. With the exception of the above the Company will only use the three brokers to do non bargaining unit work. Removal of brokers from the schedule to be effective January 1, 1991. The Company has agreed to remove the brokers from the schedule on the understanding that Company drivers recognize that the regular attendance on their part is required to allow the Company to operate without scheduling brokers.
-46-
20.17	Highway drivers required to wait for a pick-up shall be paid for all waiting time in excess of one (l)hour at the applicable driver’s rate.
20.18	The Company agrees that where a driver is assigned a load with few calls, and is required to do a second load, that driver will be advised prior to commencing the first load.
20.19	When it takes more than three (3) hours to load fowl at a farm (excluding waiting time), the effected live haul driver shall be paid at the current delivery driver tractor trailer hourly rate for the loading time in excess of three hours.
ARTICLE 21 -BENEFITS
21.01	Company payment of the premiums for the insurance plans described in this Article 21 is conditional upon the employee performing work for the Company during the month in which the premiums fall due. In the case of an employee who is absent and receiving accident and sickness benefits or Worker’s Compensation, the Company will continue to pay insurance premiums that fall due for a maximum period of twelve (12) months beyond the month in which the employee last performed work for the Company.
21.02	The Company may elect at some future date to transfer the underwriting and administration of one or more of these benefit plans provided for in this Article 21 to another insurance carrier with the understanding that in this event the benefits that will be provided by the new carrier will be similar or substantially similar to those in effect.
21.03	If the Federal or Provincial Government brings into operation any insurance plan which provides benefits which are similar or substantially similar to those offered at present to employees of the Company and such coverage is available to employees on a voluntary or compulsory basis, the Company reserves the right to discontinue or modify the affected insurance provided for in this Article 21 so as to establish
-47-
a new plan with benefits not less favourable or to cease its contributions altogether should the Government plan to take over the particular field of insurance.
21.04	It is understood and agreed that the cost of the benefit program paid by the Company provided in this Article 21 is in lieu of any employee entitlementto rebate under the Unemployment Insurance Act and the Company is entitled to all money rebated.
21.05	The benefits and insurance plans referred to in this Article 21 are necessarily qualified in their entirety by references to the underlying policies of contracts issued in respect hereof by an insurance agency or government agency shall be controlling in all matters pertaining to qualification of employees for benefits there under and in all matters pertaining to the exercise and extent of benefits and conditions.
21.06	The Company agrees to pay for a benefit package for its employees under the age of seventy (70) consisting
of the following: Life Insurance		
(a)	Self	$40,000
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment	$40,000
(c)	Spouse	$10,000
(d)	Dependent Children	$ 5,000
(e)	The Company agrees to provide for all bargaining unit	
employees a weekly indemnity program to coverfirstday ofaccidentorhospitalizationandfourthdayofsicknessfor a maximum of 26 weeks of total disability pay ableat60 % ofemployee’s insurableeamings up totheunemployment maximum benefit.
Life Insurance and AD & D payable to employees age 65 to 69 shall be 50 percent of amounts in 21.06(a) and (b).
-48-
No Life Insurance and AD & D shall be payable for employees age seventy (70) or over.
Dental
(f)	Delete existing Article 21.06(f). The Company and Union agree, however, that the 2003 to 2006 dental provision shall continue in effect until January 31, 2007, notwithstanding its exclusion from the Collective Agreement.
Effective February 1,2007, the Company shall pay premiums to the UFCW Trusteed Dental Plan - Ontario as follows:
$12.80 per week, per employee completing a shift during that week;
Effective October 13, 2007, $13.20 per week, pa* employee completing a shift during that week;
Effective October 13, 2008, $13.60 per week, per employee completing a shift during that week;
Employees on maternity, parental, emergency or compassionate leave during any week shall be deemed to have completed a shift during that week.
The Company shall pay all applicable taxes on premiums.
Administration of dental benefits shall be the responsibility of the UFCW Trusteed Dental Plan - Ontario.
(g)	The Company will supply a Major Medical Program for all employees.Thc Major Medical Program will include an optical plan that will pay up to two hundred and twenty-five ($225.00) dollars every 24 months for employees and dependents. Effective October 13, 2008 the optical plan will pay up two hundred and fifty ($250.00) dollars every 24 months for employees and dependents.
-49-
On or before March 1, 2001, the Company will implement a generic drug card plan, to include medically necessary prescription drugs. Prescription drugs shall be defined as drugs and medicines that can only be obtained through a written prescription by a physician, surgeon or dentist. The dispensing fee shall be capped at seven dollars ($7.00) per prescription. Brand name drugs are covered under the plan in cases where, for medical reasons, the physician, surgeon or dentist specifically states no substitution on the prescription.
(h)	Effective October 13, 2006, the Company agrees to contribute 65 cents per hour per employee to a maximum of forty hours per week to the C.C.W.I.P.P. Effective October 13, 2008, the Company agrees to contribute 70 cents per hour per employee to a maximum of forty hours per week to the C.C.W.I.P.P. The Company further agrees to sign a C.C.W.I.P.P. Participation Agreement.
21.07	Training and Education Trust Fund
The Company agrees to contribute $40,000 per year in twelve (12) equal payments to the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 175, Training and Education Fund. The Company shall forward the contributions every month to the Union.
21.08	The Company agrees to contribute one thousand dollars ($1000) toward the cost of printing of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 22-
RELATIONSHIPSAND COMMUNICATIONS
22.01	The parties to this Agreement recognize that a working environment in which there is mutual respect for the concerns and needs of employees, the Union and the Company is in all of their interest. In order to encourage the develop-
-50-
ment and maintenance of such a work environment, tfie parties agree to the provisions of this Article 22.
22.02	The Company agrees that part of the creation and maintenance of the appropriate work environment requires proper treatment of employees by all members of Company management. The Company agrees that supervisors ail their management persons must deal with employees in a manner which indicates a recognition of the principle expressed in Article 22.01.
22.03	The Union recognizes that the Company in its management have needs, concerns and obligations which must be recognized.
22.04	The parties recognize that because of the cultural and ethnic diversity of the work force and Company management, problems can result from misunderstandings and communication difficulties. The Company and the Union agree that they and their representatives have an obligation to make every reasonable effort to deal with such problems before they require use of the grievance procedure contained in this Agreement.
22.05	In order to ensure ongoing communication between the parties, the parties agree to the creation of the following:
(a)	Departmental union management committees for each department, such committees to consist of the mutually agreed number of Union Stewards and Company department supervisors from each department to meet at such times as the committee members mutually agree. Such committee meetings to be attended by the Chief Steward and a representative of the Personnel Department. Such meetings will be held in the plant.
(b)	Company/Union Management Meetings - Such committee to consist of a mutually agreed number cf Union
-51-
Stewards including the Chief Steward and senior Company Management to meet every three months or at such time as the committee mutually agrees. The Union staff representative servicing the bargaining unit will be invited to attend the meetings of the committee. Such meetings will be held outside the plant.
The purpose of the committees referred to above is to foster communication between the parties to the Agreement and to identify problems which either of the parties perceives with a view to creating and maintaining the working environment referred to in Article 22.01.
The parties agree that the success of such committee meetings requires that the parties feel free to openly discuss issues. To ensure such openness, the parties agree that matters discussed in such meetings shall be considered privileged. The matters discussed and statements made will not be referred to or become evidence in any hearing before any tribunal in which the parties are adversaries. The parties further agree that there are formal grievance procedures contained in the Collective Agreement and the committees referred to above are not intended nor are they to be used to settle grievances filed under the grievance procedure. Employees will not lose pay as a result of attendance at such meetings.
Minutes of such meetings will be posted. Such meetings will indicate what issues were discussed and what if any resolution was reached. Such minutes will not indicate the content of discussions.
22.06	The Company recognizes that the Union and employees have expressed concern about the frequency of the Company’s use of letters of discipline. While the Company reserves the right to discipline employees for just cause, it recognizes the concern of the Union and employees. The Company agrees to review its disciplinary procedures to en-
-52-
sure that the use of the letters is consistent with the principle expressed in Article 22.01 above. The Company will meet with the Union representatives prior to implementing any changes in the process in order to get their views as to how the process could be improved.
ARTICLE 23 - DURATION
23.01	This Agreement shall become effective on the 13th day of October 2006 and shall remain in full force and effect until the 12th day of October 2009 and shall continue automatically thereafter during annual periods of one (1) year each, unless either party notifies the other party in writing as provided for in Article 23.02 of its desire to negotiate amendments to this Agreement.
23.02	Notice that amendments are required shall only be given during the period of not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the 12th day of October 2009, or similar periods thereof. If notice of desire to amend this Agreement is given by either party in accordance with the foregoing, the other party agrees to meet for the purposes of negotiations.
-53-
Dated At Brampton, This 13th Day Of October, 2006.
Maple Lodge Farms Limited
United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, Local 175
SAtfQ HASSAN
-54-
APPENDIX ‘A’
Wage Rates - Plant October 13,2006	Start	Progression 2 Mos 4 Mos		6 Mos
Group 1	14,55	15.41	16.26	17.12
Group 2	14.55	15.41	16.26	17.12
Group 3	14.55	15.41	16.26	17.12
Group 4	14.82	15.70	16.57	17.44
Group 5	14.71	15.57	16.44	17.30
Group 6	14.76	15.62	16.49	17.36
Group 7	15.20	16.09	16.99	17.88
Wage Rates - Shipping		Progression		
	Start	2 Mos	4 Mos	6 Mos
Group 1	14.71	15.57	16.44	17.30
Group 2	15.22	16.11	17.01	17.90
Wage Rates - Plant
Group 1	General Help	17.12
Group 2	Crops	17.12
Group 3	Vacuum Gun Operator Offal Operator Draw Viscera (by hand) Retail Shipping Mixer Operator Peeler Operator	17.12
Group 4	Live Hanger Live Haul Shunter	17.44
Group 5	Cooler	17.30
Group 6	Night Clean Up	17.36
Group 7	Rotators	17.88
Plant New Further Processing		
Group 1	General Help	17.12
Group 2	Mixer Operator	17.12
	Peeler Operator	17.12
-55-
Shipping Department
Group 1 Assembler	17.30
Group 2 Shippers	17.90
LEAD HAND PREMIUMS to be $1.00 per hour above the highest classification in the department.
-56-
APPENDIX “B”
DELIVERY DRIVERS - MILEAGE RUNS
Effective October 13, 2006
(a)	Straight Truck (M2)	24.30 cents km
(38.90/m)
Tractor trailer (Ml)	26.10 cents km
(41.80/m)
(b)	Tonnage Rate OR
Drop Rate	4.45
Whichever yields higher dollar value
*Drop rate is defined as per stop as opposed toper invoice
(c) Pick Up Rates		21.61		
(d) Drivers’ overnight rate		35.91		
(e) Down Time		Pay hourly	rate	
Starting Rate For Delivery Drivers				
	Start	2Mos	4Mos	6 Mos
	85%	90%	95%	100%
Delivery Drivers (Straight)	15.60	16.52	17.43	18.35
Delivery Drivers (Trailer)	16.07	17.02	17.96	18.91
Live Haul Drivers’ Rates				
Crate rate provided below for trips up to 320 kms in				length
# Crates		Wages		
392		135.38		
592		207.97		
776		268.81		
-57-
On trips of 320 kilometres or more, the above crate rate and the applicable kilometre rate for kilometres beyond 320.
“Dolly trailer” is classified at five ninety two (592) trailer rate.
$12.05 per load to be paid to drivers of solid top live haul trailers.
Above rates apply after 6 month seniority.
Starting Rates:
for new drivers hired to be: 85% of rates as listed above. Progression to be 5% every 2 months until top rate is reached.
Live Haul shunters shall be paid the Group 4 wage rate.
Start 2 Mos 4 Mos 6 Mos
85%	90%	95%	100%
Drivers’ Rate - Live Haul Mileage Runs
Driving
28.80 cents km (46.02/m)
Loading
75.32 cents km (120.51/m)
-58-
APPENDIX ‘A’
Wage Rates - Plant		Progression		
October 13,2007 Start		2 Mos	4 Mos	6 Mos
Group 1	14.93	15.81	16.69	17.57
Group 2	14.93	15.81	16.69	17.57
Group 3	14.93	15.81	16.69	17.57
Group 4	15.21	16.10	17.00	17.89
Group 5	15.09	15.98	16.86	17.75
Group 6	15.14	16.03	16.92	17.81
Group 7	15.58	16.50	17.41	18.33
Wage Rates - Shipping		Progression		
Group 1	15.09	15.98	16.86	17.75
Group 2	15.60	16.52	17.43	18.35
Wage Rates - Plant				
Group 1	General Help			17.57
Group2	Crops			17.57
Group 3	Vacuum Gun Operator			17.57
	Offal Operator			
	Draw Viscera (by hand)			
	Retail Shipping Mixer Operator Peeler Operator			
Group 4	Live Hanger Live Haul Shunter			17.89
Group 5	Cooler			17.75
Group 6	Night Clean Up 17.81			
Group 7	Rotators 18.33			
Plant New Further Processing				
Group 1	General Help			17.57
Group 2	Mixer Operator			17.57
	Peeler Operator			17.57
-59-
Shipping Department
Group 1 Assembler	17.75
Group 2 Shippers	18.35
LEAD HAND PREMIUMS to be $ 1.00 per hour above the highest classification in the department.
-60-
APPENDIX “B”
DELIVERY DRIVERS - MILEAGE RUNS
Effective October 13, 2007
(a) Straight Truck (M2)	24.90 cents km
(39.80/m)
Tractor trailer (M1)	26.80 cents km
(42.90/m)
(b)	Tonnage Rate OR
Drop Rate	4.57
Whichever yields higher dollar value
*Drop rate is defined as per stop as opposed to per invoice
(c) Pick Up Rates		22.17		
(d) Drivers’ overnight rate		36.84		
(e) Down Time		Pay hourly	rate	
Starting Rate For Delivery Drivers				
	Start	2Mos	4Mos	6 Mos
	85%	90%	95%	100%
Delivery Drivers (Straight)	15.98	16.92	17.86	18-80
Delivery Drivers (Trailer)	16.46	17.42	18.39	19.36
Live Haul Drivers’Rates				
Crate rate provided below for trips up to 320 kms in length				
# Crates		Wages		
392		138.90		
592		213.38		
776		275.80		
-61-
On trips of 320 kilometres or more, the above crate rate and the applicable kilometre rate for kilometres beyond 320.
“Dolly trailer” is classified at five ninety two (592) trailer rate.
12.36 per load to be paid to drivers of solid top live haul trailers.
Above rates apply after 6 month seniority.
Starting Rates:
for new drivers hired to be: 85% of rates as listed above. Progression to be 5% every 2 months until top rate is reached.
Start 2 Mos 4 Mos 6 Mos
85%	90%	95%	100%
Drivers’ Rate - Live Haul Mileage Runs
Driving
29.50 cents km (47.20/m)
Loading
77.28 cents km (123.65/m)
-62-
APPENDIX A’
Wage Rates - Plant October 13,2008	Start	Progression 2 Mos 4 Mos		6 Mos
Group 1	15.36	16.26	17.17	18.07
Group 2	15.36	16.26	17.17	18.07
Group 3	15.36	16.26	17.17	18.07
Group 4	15.63	16.55	17.47	18.39
Group 5	15.51	16.43	17.34	18.25
Group 6	15.56	16.48	17.39	18.31
Group 7	16.01	16.95	17.89	18.83
Wage Rates - Shipping		Progression		
Group 1	15.51	16.43	17.34	18.25
Group 2	16.02	16.97	17.91	18.85
Wage Rates -Plant
Group 1	General Help	18.07
Group 2	Crops	18.07
Group 3	Vacuum Gun Operator Offal Operator Draw Viscera (by hand) Retail Shipping Mixer Operator Peeler Operator	18.07
Group 4	Live Hanger Live Haul Shunter	18.39
Group 5	Cooler	18.25
Group 6	Night Clean Up	18.31
Group 7	Rotators	18.83
Plant New Further Processing Group 1 General Help		18.07
Group 2	Mixer Operator Peeler Operator	18.07 18.07
63
Shipping Department
Group 1 Assembler	18.25
Group 2 Shippers	18.85
LEAD HAND PREMIUMS to be $ 1.00 per hour above the highest classification in the department.
-64-
APPENDIX “B”
DELIVERY DRIVERS - MILEAGE RUNS
Effective October 13,2008
(a)	Straight Truck (M2)	25.60 cents km (40.90/m)
	Tractor trailer (Ml)	27.60 cents km (44.2/m)
(b)	Tonnage Rate OK	
	Drop Rate Whichever yields higher dollar value	4.70
	*Drop rate is defined as per stop as opposed voice	
(c)	Pick Up Rates	22.79
(d)	Drivers’ overnight rate	37.87
(e)	Down Time	Pay hourly rate
Starting Rate For Delivery Drivers
	Start	2 Mos	4 Mos	6 Mos
	85%	90%	95%	100%
Delivery Drivers (Straight)	16.41	17.37	18.34	19.30
Delivery Drivers (Trailer)	16.88	17.87	18.87	19.86
Live Haul Drivers’ Rates
Crate rate provided below for trips up to 320 kms in length
# Crates	Wages
392	142.79
592	219.35
776	283.52
- 65 -
On trips of 320 kilometres or more, the above crate rate and the applicable kilometre rate for kilometres beyond 320.
“Dolly trailer” is classified at five ninety two (592) trailer rate.
12.71 per load to be paid to drivers of solid top live haul trailers.
Above rates apply after 6 month seniority.
Starting Rates:
for new drivers hired to be: 85% of rates as listed above. Progression to be 5% every 2 months until top rate is reached.
Start 2 Mos 4 Mos 6 Mos
85%	90%	95%	100%
Drivers’ Rate - Live Haul Mileage Runs
Driving
30.30 cents km (48.50/m)
Loading
79.44 cents km (127.10/m)
-66-
Letter Of Understanding#!
Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers International Union Local 175
Re: Load Bars
The Company agrees to install load bars on all existing and new delivery trucks where missing. Company further agrees to replace all damaged load bars.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
-67-
Letter Of Understanding#!
Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers International Union Local 175
Re: Heated Mirrors
The Company agrees that all new trucks will have heated mirrors and agrees that when replacing broken mirrors on the existing trucks that heated mirrors will be installed.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
-68-
Letter Of Understanding #3 Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers International Union Local 175
Re: Pump Jacks
The Company agrees to provide and maintain twenty (20) working pump jacks for the exclusive use of the delivery department.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd.	UFCW Local 175
-69-
Letter Of Understanding#4 Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers International Union Local 175
Re: Air Conditioning Units
The Company agrees to service and maintain existing air conditioning units.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
-70-
Letter Of Understanding #5 Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers International Union Local 175
Re: UFCW Leukemia Fund
The Company agrees to deduct once during the month of May from each employee’s pay an amount of ten (10) dollars and forward said deductions to UFCW Local 175by the end of May. The Company agrees to match such deduction to a maximum of $5,000.00 and forward same to the Union office along with the employees’ deductions. The amount forwarded shall be donated to the UFCW Leukemia Fund.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd.	UFCW Local 175
-71-
Letter Of Understanding #6 Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And CommercialWorkers International Union Local 175
Re: Delivery Drivers
Consistent with the second paragraph of Article 11.15(a) of the Collective Agreement, the parties agree that where it is necessary to change the start time for Delivery Drivers, the Company agrees to advise the Delivery Driver at the end of his preceding shift, rather than three days in advance.
The second paragraph of Article 11.15(a) shall otherwise apply to Delivery Drivers.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
72-
Letter Of Understanding#?
Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers International Union Local 175
Re: Students
The Company and the Union agree that the practice with respect to the use of students and employees regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week, shall continue.
The Company further agrees that it will not regularly employ students and employees regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week for more than twenty-four (24) hours per week outside the school vacation period.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
-73-
Letter Of Understanding #8 Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers International Union Local 175
Re: Returnable Container Deliveries
The Company agrees to pay, on returnable container deliveries, on product codes 3023, 3103, 3104, 3105 and 3107, as those product codes may be amended from time to time, as follows:
a)	one to nine containers - drop rate;
b)	ten to twenty-nine containers — one half (lh) hour pay at the applicable driver’s rate;
c)	thirty or more containers — one (1) hour pay at the applicable driver’s rate.
The above applies to mileage runs only. It is the intent of the parties in this provision to continue the present practice.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
-74-
Letter Of Understanding^
Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers International Union Local 175
Re: Trial Periods For Successful Job Posting Candidates
Successful job posting candidates shall be placed on a one (1) week trial period. If the employee decides that he/she does not wish to continue in the position, or if the employee or management concludes that the employee is not able to satisfactorily perform the position, the employee shall be returned to their former position and wage without loss of seniority.
Management shall not act arbitrarily in exercising its discretion to conclude an employee is not able to satisfactorily perform the position.
If the first candidate does not retain the position following the trial period, a second candidate will be offered the position from the applicants and the same procedure shall apply.
If the second candidate does not retain the position following the trialperiod, then the Company shall be entitledto hire a new employee for the position. During the trial period, management may use temporary employees to fill the vacated position.
Employees who successfully post for a position, but then do not retain the position following the trial period shall not be permitted to apply for another job posting for nine (9) months after the date of posting.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
-75-
Letter Of Understanding #10 Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers InternationalUnion Local 175
Re: Time Limits For Filing For Arbitration
In view of the parties’ history of amiable Labour Relations, the parties agree to the following:
That neither party shall raise or proceed with a timeliness issue argument regarding “filing for arbitration” without first giving the other party written prior notice of its intent to do so.
Should either party serve such notice on the other party the parties further agree that the final time frame in the Collective Agreement respecting “filing for arbitration” shall then be triggered.
The parties further agree that any Board of Arbitration or single arbitrator shall have full jurisdiction to adjudicate the matter respecting timeliness in light of this agreement and shall not be restricted by the Ontario Labour Relations Act in so doing.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
-76-
Letter Of Understanding #11 Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And CommercialWorkers International Union Local 175
Re: Hours Of Work And Overtime
The parties are agreed that, notwithstanding the hours of work and overtime provisions of the collective agreement, the Sanitation Shift Schedule in effect on ratification of the collective agreement may be maintained throughout its term and shall not constitute a violation of the collective agreement. Any grievance, complaint or dispute on behalf of any employee complaining that the sanitation shift schedule is not in compliance with the collective agreement shall not constitute a difference between the parties and shall not be arbitrable.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
-77-
Letter Of Understanding #12 Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers International Union Local 175
Re: Attendance Incentive
Effective January 2007, in any month in which an employee has perfect attendance, the employee shall be credited with a bonus of 3 hours pay. Perfect attendance shall be defined as meaning on-time attendance for the entire shift of each working day of the month, excluding vacations, union leave, lay off, the day on which a compensable injury occurs, bereavement leave, jury duty and no more than one excused absence per month. Any employee absent from work, late for work or leaving work early on any date on which they are regularly scheduled to work, or on any additional shift which they have agreed to work, shall not be entitled to the incentive payment. Any employee taking a leave of absence, other that a one day excused absence, shall not be entitled to the incentive payment. The parties are further agreed that any grievance, complaint or dispute on behalf of any employee not qualifying for payment pursuant to the preceding, shall not constitute a difference between the parties and shall not be arbitrable. Payments under this incentive program shall be made no later than the January following the year in which they are earned.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
-78-
Letter Of Understanding #13 Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers International Union Local 175
Re: Shipping
Heaters and dock seals in the shipping area will be maintained in a good state of repair and shall be utilized during the cold weather.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
-79
Letter Of Understanding #14 Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers International Union Local 175
Re: Start Times
Paid time for production employees starts on the production line and not with dressing and pre-production wash-up.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
-80-
Letter Of Understanding #15 Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers International Union Local 175
Re: Ergonomic Committee
The Company may continue the operation of the Ergonomic Committee and may determine work areas covered ty the Committee as well as the number of employees involved in the Committee. The Union may select the employee representatives on such Committee.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
-81-
Letter Of Understanding #16 Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers International Union Local 175
Re: Retail Shippers
The parties agree to incorporate the substance of paragraphs 3,4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,11, 12, 13, 17,18, and 19 of the Retail Shippers Minutes of Settlement dated November 10, 2004.
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
-82
Letter Of Understanding #17 Between
Maple Lodge Farms And
United Food And Commercial Workers International Union Local 175
Re: Shipping Overtime
The parties agree to incorporate the Shipping Overtime Protocol as an exception to Article 11.07(b).
For The Company	For The Union
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd. UFCW Local 175
-83-