THIS AGREEMENT ENTERED INTOAS OF April 18,1999
BETWEEN
BETTER BEEF LIMITED (hereinafterreferred to as the "Company") OF THE FIRST PART
-AND-
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, REGION 18,
A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.
ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL617P (Local 175) (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
Expiry: December 31, 2001
00266 (07)
INDEX
ARTICLE#	PAGE#
Article 1 Recognition.............................. 3
Article 2	Purpose................................. 3
Article 3	Reservation of Management Rights...... £
Article 4	Representation ......................... 8
Article 5	Grievance Procedure.................... 11
Article 6	No Strikes or Lockouts ................ 23
Article 7	Union Security......................... 24
Article 8	Discrimination......................... 27
Article 9	Seniority.............................. 28
Article 10	Temporary Transfers.................... 37
Article 11	Leave of Absence....................... 40
Article 12	Bereavement............................ 41
Article 13	Jury Duty.............................. 41
Article 14	Hours of Work and Overtime............. 42
Article 15	Pay on Day of Injury .................. 49
Article 16	Designated Holidays.................... 50
Article 17	Vacation with Pay...................... 52
Article 18	Safety and Health...................... 55
Article 19	Welfare................................ 57
Article 20	Wages.................................. 65
Article 21	Clothing..............................  66
Article22 General.................................. 68
Article 23	Maintenance............................ 68
Article 24	Duration............................... 72
Schedule "A ....................................... 75
Classifications ................................... 77
Letterof Understanding#!............................ 89
Letterof Understanding#2............................ 92
Letterof Understanding#3............................ 93
Letterof Understanding#4............................ 94
ARTICLE 1	RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the bargaining agent of all its employees at 781 York Road, Guelph, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, office and sales staff.
1.02	During the term of this Agreement, the Company will not bargain with or enter into a Collective Agreement with any other trade union on behalf of or binding upon the employees in the bargaining unit or any of them.
ARTICLE 2	PURPOSE
2.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to establish collective bargaining relations between the Company and the Union, to continue the cooperation and spirit of good will between the Company and its employees, to provide machinery for the prompt disposition of grievances arising under this Agreement and to set forth negotiated conditions of
	-3-
2.02
employment for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement. The union recognizes that in order to provide a proper relationship between the parties, the Company must be kept in a strong competitive market position, which means it must produce at the best possible efficiency and lowest cost, consistent with fair labour standards, and the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company in attaining such objectives.
Since maintenance of a good standard of wages and working conditions depends upon sound and efficient operation of the business, the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company at all times;
(a)	to maintain an improved quality of products;
(b)	to avoid waste of products, materials or time;
4
	(c) to assist in keeping the Company's premises clean and tidy;
	(d) to conserve and protect machinery and equipment.
ARTICLE 3	RESERVATIONOF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3,01	Except as and to the extent specifically modified by this Agreement, all rights and prerogatives of Management are retained by the Company and remain exclusively within the rights of the Company and its Management. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company's rights shall include:
	(a) The right: to maintain order, discipline and efficiency; to make, alter and enforce, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations, policies and practices to be adhered to by its employees; to
	-5-
discipline and discharge employees for proper cause;
(b) The right:	to select, hire
and control the working force and employees; to transfer, assign, promote, demote, classify, lay-off, recall, suspend employees; to plan, direct and control operations; to select and retain employees for positions excluded from the bargaining unit and to transfer employees into the bargaining unit;
The right to determine: the location and extent of its operations and their commencement, expansion, curtailment or discontinuance; the direction of the working forces; the products to be processed; the standards of production; the contracting out of work; the schedules
-6-
of work and of production;
the number of shifts; the
methods, processes and means of performing work; the job content and requirements; quality and quantity of standards; the qualifications of employees, the use of improved methods, machinery and equipment; whether there shall be overtime work and who shall perform such work, subject to the provisions of Article 14 herein; and how many shall operate or work on any job, operation, machine or product line; the administration of the Company's pay system; which jobs shall be incentive jobs and which jobs shall not; the number of hours to be worked; starting and quitting time. And generally, the right to manage the enterprise and its business without
7-
	interference are solely and exclusively the right of the Company.
3.02	Supervisors will not normally perform work performed by bargaining unit employees. This work is never intended to replace bargaining unit employees. Managementwill ensure that this work is kept to a reasonable minimum.
ARTICLE 4	REPRESENTATION
4.01	The Union may designate and the Company will recognize one steward for each department, as well as a chief steward. Such departmental stewards must be employees of the department which they have been designatedto represent. As well, the Union may designate and the Company will recognize a grievance committee comprised of four (4) Employeesas follows:
	(a) The Local Chairperson
	-8-
The Chief Steward
4.02
4.03
(b)
(c)	The Recording Secretary or Vice Chair
(d)	The applicable employees' steward.
No one shall be eligible to serve as steward or grievance committeeman unless he is an employee of the Company and has at least six (6) months' seniority.
The Company agrees to post an up to date list with names of supervisors in each department and a copy given to the Union. Otherwise, the employees shall not be obliged to recognize such personnel until they have been so informed.
The Union will inform the Company in writing of the identity of all stewards and grievance committee members and the department which each steward represents and the Company shall not be obliged to recognize such personnel until it has been so informed.
-9-
4.04
4.05
For the purpose of this Agreement the plant grievance committee and the stewards together with the officers of the Local Union shall be deemed to be officials of the Union. The parties hereto agree that the Union officials occupy positions of leadership and responsibility to see that this Agreement is faithfully carried out. The Company hereto agrees that it will faithfully carry out the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
Stewards, members of committees and Union officers have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and such persons shall not leave their regular duties without requesting and obtaining the permission of their foreman or immediate supervisor and such permission will not be withheld for more than (1) one hour. When resuming their regular duties, they shall report to their foreman or immediate supervisor and will give a reasonable explanation with respect to their absence, when requested to do so.
10
4.06	Warnings on an employee's record are to be withdrawn after one (1) calendar year.
4.07	If it becomes necessary to communicate a disciplinary action to a bargaining unit employee, the employee is entitled to union representation.
4.08	Chairperson or his or her designate will be excused three hours (3) per day with pay for union business.
ARTICLE 5	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.01	The grievance procedures herein provided for are among the most important matters in the successful administration of the Agreement. The Company and the Union therefore agree that the designated grievance procedure as hereinafter set forth shall serve as and constitute the sole and exclusive means to be utilized by the griever for the prompt disposition, decision and final settlement of a grievance
	-11-
5.02
5.03
arising with respect to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement and the specifically designated grievance procedure shall be strictly followed. Wherever the term "grievance procedure" is used in this Agreement it shall be considered as including the arbitration procedure.
"Grievance" shall mean a complaint or claim concerning improper discipline or discharge or a dispute with reference to the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of this Agreement.
The Company shall be under no obligation to consider or process any grievances unless such grievance has been presentedto the Company at Step 1 ofthe grievance procedure, within (5) five days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based, were known or should have been known by the griever. However, if the Company does consider or process a
-12-
5.04
5.05
grievance which has been presented
late, the Company shall not be
estoppel or precluded at any stage from taking the position that the grievance is late and not arbitrable.
The Company will notify the Union, as to what disciplinary action will be taken within 5 days after the circumstances given rise to it are known or ought to have been known by the company. The employee shall remain working until the investigation is completed unless the employee is an endangerment to himself, the company or co-workers. If a supervisor fails to reply to the Grievance, the Grievance will proceed to the next step.
All time limits referred to in the grievance procedure herein contained shall be deemed to mean "working days", i.e. exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or the holidays set out in Article 16 hereof.
No employee shall have a grievance
-13-
until he has discussed his complaint with his immediate supervisor. If the employee's immediate supervisor does not promptly settle the matter to the employee's satisfaction, an employee's proper grievance may be processed as follows:
STEP NO. 1
If an employee has a grievance, the grievance shall, within the five (5) days referred to in Article 5.03 hereof, be presented to his departmental supervisor. The employee will have his steward or the Chief Steward, as the case may be, accompany him to see the departmental supervisor. The departmental supervisor shall give the griever a written reply as soon as possible but not later than three (3) days after such discussion. If the departmental supervisor's reply is not satisfactory to the griever, the next step must be taken within (5) five days of the departmental supervisor's answer, but not thereafter.
-14-
STEP N0.2
At this step the grievance shall be reduced to writing and presented to the Plant Manager, within the aforesaid five (5) days of receipt of the departmental supervisor's written reply, but not thereafter.
The written grievance referred to above shall identify the facts giving rise to the grievance, the section or sections of the Agreement claimed violated, the relief requested and shall be signed by the employee and counter signed by his Union.
A meeting will be held between the Steward and Chief Steward together with the griever involved and the Plant Manager, together with other representatives of management within three (3) days of the presentation of the written grievance to the Plant Manager. The Plant Manager shall give his written reply to the Chief Steward within five (5) days of such meeting.
15
If the Plant Manager's reply is not satisfactory to the Chief Steward, the next step must be taken within five (5) days after the delivery of the Plant Manager's reply to the Chief Steward but not thereafter.
STEP NO. 3
At this step, the Union shall within the aforesaid five (5) days, notify the President in writing of its desire to appeal the decision of the Plant Manager to step 3.
Within ten (10) days thereafter, a meeting will take place between the grievance committee (which may be accompanied by the Union representative) and a management committee. The griever shalt be present if requested by either party. The Company shall deliver its decision in writing to the Chief Steward within ten (10) working days of such meeting.
STEP NO. 4 -16-
In the event the grievance is not
settled at Step 3, the party having
carriage of the grievance shall request arbitration of the grievance by giving notice in writing to the other party within ten (10) days from delivery of the decision at step 3 to the Chief Steward, but not thereafter.
If a request for arbitration is not so given within such ten (10) day period, the decision at Step 3 shall be final and binding upon both parties to this Agreement and upon any employee involved.
The notice to arbitrate shall contain the name and address of the moving party's nominee to the Board.
The recipient of the notice shall within ten (10) days advise the other party, in writing, of the name of its appointee to the arbitration board. The two (2) appointees so selected shall, as soon as possible, appoint a third person who shall be a chairman. If the two (2) appointees
-17-
5.06
5.07
fail to agree upon a chairman, within the time limit the Minister of Labour for Ontario shall, if requested within ten (10) days from the expiry date upon which the two (2) appointees are to appoint a chairman (but not thereafter), forthwith appoint a qualified personto be chairman.
The arbitration board shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision which shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it. The decision of the majority shall be the decision of the arbitration board, but if there is no majority decision, the decision of the chairman shall govern.
The board of arbitration shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, not to adjudicate any matter not specifically assigned to it by the notice to arbitrate specified in Step 3 of Article 5.05 hereof.
-18-
5.08
5.09
5.10
Each party hereto shall bear its own costs incidental to any such arbitration proceedings. The fees and charges of the chairman of the board of arbitration shall be borne equally by the two (2) parties hereto.
The time limits and other procedural requirements set out in this Article 5 are mandatory and not merely directory. Therefore, failure to put a grievance in writing at the proper step in accordance with the requirements hereof shall be deemed a complete waiver and abandonment of the grievance by the griever. Any grievance not appealed from one step of the grievance procedure to the next within the specified time limit shall be deemed to be abandoned. No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not properly been carried through all specified previous steps of the grievance procedure within the times specified.
A grievance which has been disposed of pursuant to the
-19-
grievance provisions of this Agreement shall not again be made the subject matter of a grievance. This clause shall not preclude a different grievance from being filed respecting similar but different circumstances. The Union shall have the right to withdraw the grievance at any stage of the proceedings.
5.11	A decision or settlement reached at
any stage of the grievance procedure shall be final and binding upon all parties hereto, including the complaining employee, and shall not be subject to reopening by any party except by agreement in writing. If the grievance is settled at any step of the grievance procedure both the company management and the union representatives who pass on the same as provided herein shall, after ratification, sign the settlement as endorsed upon the written grievance so that no question or argument may arise as to what the settlement was. Either patty shall have the right to require the
-20-
attendance of the griever at any
meeting held pursuant to the
grievance procedure.
5.12	When an employee's grievance is settled by the parties or determined by a board of arbitration on the basis that the employee is entitled to be reimbursed for wages lost as a result of action on the part of the company in violation of this Agreement, such reimbursement shall be at the employee's straight time day work hourly rate exclusive of any premiums, for such hours as the employee would have worked for the company or for the holiday pay to which he would have been entitled if the violation had not occurred, but there shall be subtracted there from any monies the employee received during such period.
Union Policy Grievance Or Company Grievance
5.13	A Union policy grievance or a Company grievance may be submitted to the Company or the Union, as the case may be, in writing
-21-
within ten (10) days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based were known. A meeting between the Company and the Union shall be held within five (5) days of the presentation of the written grievance and shall take place within the framework of Step 3 of Article 5.05. The Company or the Union, as the case may be, shall give its written decision within three (3)days of such meeting.
If the decision is unsatisfactoryto the grieving party, the grievance must be submitted to arbitration within ten (10) days of the delivery of such written decision and the arbitration sections of this Agreement shall be followed.
It is expressly understood that the provisions of this paragraph 5.13 may not be used by the Union to institute a grievance directly affecting an employee or employees which such employee or employees could themselves institute and the provisions of Article 5.05 hereof shall not thereby be bypassed.
-22-
ARTICLE 6 6.01
6.02
6.03
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
The Union undertakes and agrees that while this Agreement is in operation neither the Union nor any employee shall take part in or call or encourage any strike, picketing, sit down, slowdown, or any suspension of or stoppage of or interferencewith work or production which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company, nor shall there be any sympathy strikes and the Company agrees that it will not engage in any lockout during the term of this Agreement.
Any employee who participates in any of the foregoing conduct shall be subject to discipline up to and including discharge.
The Union agrees that no strike vote of the employees will be taken during the term of this Agreement or during the course of negotiations with the Company for renewal or extension thereof until all of the conciliation provisions of the Ontario Labour
-23-
	Relations Act have been fully exhausted.
ARTICLE 7	UNION SECURITY
7.01	The Company agrees that: (a)	All employees who are presently members of the Union shall maintain their membership in the Union by having their regular monthly union dues deducted from their pay and remitted to the Union in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. (b)	All employees hired after the date of this Agreement, shall be required to become members of the Union by tendering the Union initiation fee in the amount so determined by the Constitution and shall maintain their membership in the union by having their regular monthly union dues deducted from their pay and remitted to the union in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. -24-
7.02	The Company agrees to deduct
regular monthly union dues, special
assessments uniformly and non uniformly levied in accordance with the Constitution and By-laws of the Union, upon written notification from the Union. Twice the regular monthly union dues shall be deducted in any one check-off where the employee was absent or had insufficient pay in the check-off immediately preceding from the first pay and remit to the union on or before the last day of the month. The Company will not deduct union dues from Long Term Disability, Weekly, Indemnity, or benefit check payments to employees.
7.03	The Company will at the time of making such remittance to the Union, specify the employees from whose pay check deductions were made and the reason why no deductions were made for that month. The Company also agrees to fill out the forms for new employees called back from the layoff as supplied by the union and submit
-25-
7.04
7.05
7.06
7.07
these forms with the first check-off to the union office.
The Union agrees to indemnify the Company and hold it harmless against any claim which may arise from complying with the provisions of this Article.
The use of the masculine gender in this agreement shall be considered to also include the feminine.
At the discretion of the Company, the Company will provide paid educational leave for employees for improvement of skill levels pertaining to the work place or for improving levels pertaining to health and safety.
When as a direct result of the introduction of new equipment, or a job is discontinued and the incumbent is transferred to a lower rated job according to his seniority, his rate shall not be reduced for a period of twelve months.
-26
ARTICLE 8	DISCRIMINATION
8.01	The company recognizes and will not interfere with the right of its employees to become members of the Union and will not discriminate against, interfere with, restrain or coerce employees because of membership in the union. The Union agrees that neither the Union nor its members will intimidate or coerce employees into membership and also that it will not solicit membership, collect dues, distribute Union information or hold meetings on Company property.
8.02	The Company agrees to permit the Union to post notices of meetings and legitimate Union business but not political matters on a bulletin board designated by for such purposes. This will be a separate bulletin board for Union purposes only. The company will give the union a bulletin board “that is glass covered and locked”.
	-27-
ARTICLE 9 9.01
9.02
9.03
SENIORITY
An employee will be considered a Probationary employee until he has been employed by the Company for ninety (90) calendar days. During such probationary period he will have no seniority rights but once seniority is acquired it will be regarded as having started from the date upon such probationary period commenced. The Union will not question the lay-off or dismissal of any probationary employee, nor shall such lay-off or dismissal be the subject of a grievance.
The Company will furnish the Union with a seniority list of all union employees. Such list will show the employee's seniority and the department in which the employee holds such seniority. The seniority list shall be revised once every two (2) months and a copy supplied to the Union.
In case of job posting in work force the following factors will be considered:
-28-
9.04
(a)	Seniority;
(b)	Reliability;
(c)	Capability.
If B and C are reasonable the senior employee will be given the opportunity to qualify for the job as outlined in Article 9.08 (C), (D), or (E).
An employee shall lose all seniority and service rights if
(a)	an employee voluntarily quits;
(b)	an employee is discharged for cause and is not reinstated under the provisions of the grievance and arbitration procedure of this Agreement;
(C) a person on lay-off fails to return to work within ten (10) days after the Company's notice of recall
29
		V is sent by registered mail or telegram to the last address of the person shown on the Company's records, or if the person within two (2) days after such notice of recall is so sent fails to notify the Company of his intention to return to work;
	(d)	an employee is laid off for a period in excess of two (2) years;
	(e)	if an employee absents himself from work for two (2) consecutive working days without a reason satisfactory to the Company;
	(f)	if an employee fails to return to work promptly after the expiration of any leave granted to him unless he is excused by the Company.
9.05	The	appointment or selection of -30-
employees for supervisory positions,
full time Union positions or for any
position which is not subject to the provisions of this Agreement is not covered by this Agreement. If any employee on the seniority list is so transferred or appointed and later, within (1) year of the Company or the employee's request, is transferred back to the position which is governed by this Agreements then he shall be credited with seniority based upon his total length of service with the Company from the date on which he was last hired. A vacated position will be posted on the 31st day. If the employee who has been transferred does not return to the bargaining unit within 30 days he forfeits the right to his existing job and may only return to a job vacancy that he may be able to attain by the postingsystem.
9.06	Sick Leave
An employee who, because of illness or injury requiring an absence from his job for more than two (2)work
-31-
days, shall upon furnishing evidence satisfactory to the Company of such illness or injury be granted a sick leave for the duration of the period of his disability due to such sickness or injury except that at the end of twelve (12) months in the case of an employee with less than three (3) years' seniority, or twenty-four (24) months in the case of an employee with three (3) years or more seniority, of continuous absence because of such illness or injury the employee's employment and seniority may be terminated. The employee shall furnish supplementary medical evidence of disability from time to time as required by the Company. Failure to furnish such evidence of disability as required will result in the termination of the employee's employment and seniority. Before any employee on sick leave may return to work he must present a doctor's certificate stating that he has recovered sufficiently both physically and mentally, to be able to return to his regular job classification or other
-32-
	available work and perform such job in accordance with the Company's quality and production standards. The Company reserves the right to have any employee examined by a Company physician in connection with sick leave.
9.07	It shall be the duty of the employee or laid off person to notify the Company promptly, in writing, of any change of address. If an employee or laid off person should fail to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of a notice to reach him and any notice sent by the Company by registered mail to the address which appears on the Company's personnel records.
	When an employee is notified that he is being laid off he shall, at that time, attend at the Company's office and ensure that the Company's records correctly set out his address and telephone number.
9.08	(a) The Company agrees to give seniority employees
	-33-
	three (3) working days notice of lay-off or pay for that portion of such three (3) working days for which notice is not given except in cases of machinery or equipment breakdown.
(b)	Lay-off
	In the event of a layoff, employees shall be laid off in the reverse order of seniority.
(c)	Job Posting
	All Jobs will be posted including class 7; but class 7 will only be posted twice to prevent the domino effect. This posting will be posted within three (3) working days for a period of three (3) working days.
	The job will be awarded within three (3) working days. The notice shall set
	-34-
out a job description,
classification, wage rate,
and start and finish time. The Union will be notified of the successful employee and the employee will be placed on the job within ten (IO) working days, if possible. If this is not done, the employee will be paid the new rate after 10 days. During the three (3) days of posting the Company may temporarily fill the job as it deems proper. An employee who is eligible for any job may be allowed a trial period of upto ten (10) consecutive working days in the relevantjob to enable management to determine whether the employee will be able to perform in that job to the Company's quality and quantity standards. If such employee does not qualify after the trial period, he shallforewith bereturnedto
35-
his originaljob.
The Company will notify the Union of the selected employee at least three (3) days before the job is to be started, if possible. The company will post the name of the successful applicant.
It is expressly understood that no successful job applicant pursuant to this Article 9.08 (c) may bid on another job posting for a period of ninety (90) consecutive calendar days after the closing date of the original job posting.
(d)	If the employee performs the work without further training he will be paid the proper rate.
(e)	All postings to be delivered to and signed by the department Steward.
36
9.09	Temporary Job Postings:
	Any vacancy which is the result of sickness, accident, or leave of absence, and which is known to be more that 30 days, will be posted in the department.
	After six months the temporary posting will be reviewed by the department Steward.
	The posting will be granted to the bidder with the highest department seniority who has the skill and competence to perform the job. The bidder's position will then be filled by a temporary posting and the same with the following position. The third position may be filled at the discretion of the company.
ARTICLE 10	TEMPORARYTRANSFERS
10.01	An employee who is temporarily transferred (transfer not to exceed more than thirty (30) working days) to a higher ratedjob (a higher rated job shall include a job whereby
	-37-
the range of rates is higher than the range of rates in the job from which the employee is temporarily transferred) shall be paid the rate of the job to which he is transferred. If the rate of the job to which an employee is temporarily transferred other than as a result of exercising his seniority during a lay-off or at an employee's request, is less than the rate of his regular job he shall be paid the rate of his regularjob during the period of such temporary transfer. Where the transfer results from the exercise of seniority during lay-off or as a result of employee's request, he shall be paid the rate of the job to which he is transferred.
It is the responsibility of the department supervisor to issue the proper rate.
When a temporary transfer is made from one department to another the Company will transfer the employee with the least seniority, always having regard to the requirements of the business and the ability of the
-38-
10.02
employee to do the required work satisfactorily.
Where an employee is awarded a permanent job in another department and is consistently thereafter returned temporarily to perform the job in his previous department because of his qualificationsto perform the work he may express his dissatisfaction with such transfers and the Company will, subject to seniority, make a reasonable effort to
obtain a replacement who can satisfactorily perform the work or train another employee who possesses suitable qualifications and can qualify within a reasonable period for such temporary transfer.
If an employee is temporarily assigned to another shift, he may apply to be transferred to his or her original shift. If a job is available on the desired shift and more than one person i applying for that position, the individual who can perform the
-39-
ARTICLE 11 11.01
11.02
job and with the most seniority will be granted the transfer for a thirty (30) day period.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Requests for leave of absence must be made to the plant manager, and if granted, such leave of absence will be confirmed in writing. A leave of absence, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be permissive only and shall be understood to mean an absence from work requested in writing by the employee on the form provided for such purposes and consented to in writing by the plant manager, covering a permitted period of time for personal reasons. Leave of absence will not be granted to accept other employment of any kind. Leave of absence shall be permissive only and shall be without pay or any other form of compensation.
Normally, a leave of absence will not be granted for a period in excess of three (3) months.
-40-
ARTICLE 12	BEREAVEMENT
12.01	In the case of death in the immediate family, (defined as wife, husband, children, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law) an employee with seniority will be granted up to three (3) consecutive days off work with pay providing such days off are regular working days and providing the employee attends the funeral and/or is involved in making funeral arrangements.
12.02	In case of death of a stepmother, stepfather, grandchildren, grandparent, brother-in-law, or sister-in- law of a seniority employee, such employee shall be granted one (1) day off with pay provided such day is a regular working day and provided the employee attends the funeral and/or is involved in making funeral arrangements.
ARTICLE 13	JURYDUTY
13.01	An employee with established seniority who is called to and reports
	-41-
	for jury duty shall be paid by the Company the difference between the employee's base rate exclusive of premiumsforthe number of hours up to eight (8)that he otherwise would have been scheduled to work and the amount that he is paid for hisjury duty. In order to be eligible for payment hereunder the employee must:
	(I) give the Company notice within one (1) day of his receipt of his call for jury duty and;
	(ii) report for work when not required for actual jury duty as soon as possible and work the balance of his schedule time.
ARTICLE 14	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
14.01	The provisions of this Article 14 are for the purpose of computing overtime and shall not be construed to be a guarantee of or limitation upon the hours of work to be done
	-42-
14.02
per day or per week or otherwise, nor as a guarantee of working schedules.
The normal work week will be composed of forty (40) straight time hours worked from Monday to Friday.
The Company will make every possible effort to retain the existing shift schedule. In the event that a shift change becomes necessary the Company will give seven (7) days notice cf such change to all involved employees. If such notice is not given, the involved employee shall receive payment of time and one half as a basis, rate for all hours worked within the received period of notice. Any hours worked before a regular scheduled shift will be considered overtime hours. The Company will ensure that every employee has a minimum of 8 hours off between each shift.
(1) The Company has the right to schedule	in-plant
maintenance employees
-43-
	from Tuesday to Saturday according to seniority. Employees with the most seniority will have first choice of the new shift.
	(2) If an employee's regular day off in place of Saturday falls on a week day, he shall be paid time and one-half (1 14) the regular rate for hours worked on such a day.
	(3) This shift will consist of two employees.
14.03	An employee shall be paid overtime at a rate of time and one-half (1 14) the employee's straight time rate of pay exclusive of premiums for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in the day.
14.04	Overtime at the rate of time and one-half (1 14) of the employee's straight time hourly rate of pay exclusive of premiums shall be paid
	-44-
14.05
14.06
for all hours worked on Saturday and double time on Sunday.
An employee who performs work on one (1) of the holidays designated in Article 16 hereof, shall be paid at a rate of time and one-half (14) plus holiday pay and such work shall be at the discretion of the Company and the employee involved.
It is recognized that the Company will from time to time require overtime work and the Union agrees that employees shall perform such overtime work. An employee who wishes to be excused from an overtime assignment shall in support of his request, furnish the Company with a bonafide reason. The Company's decision upon the request will not be made in an arbitrary manner. Overtime after 5 hours a week will be voluntary. The Company agrees to give notice of anticipated overtime the day before the day upon which the overtime will be worked except in cases of machinery or equipment breakdown
-45-
14.07
14.08
beyond the reasonable control of the Company. The Company will endeavor as far as practicable to equitably allocate overtime work among qualified employees who presently and normally perform the job or dominant portion of the work required. Non bargaining unit supervisory personnel shall not perform overtime work while qualified bargaining unit employees who would normally perform such work are available save and except for emergencies, instructional or training purposes.
In no case will there be a duplication or pyramiding of overtime or any other premium compensation.
Each employee shall receive a fifteen (15) minute break during each half of each shift, at a time to be designated by his foreman. If overtime is more than one hour, a 15 minute coffee break will be given to the employees.
46
14.09
14.10
Employees shall receive a one-half
04) hour unpaid lunch period.
(a)	20 minutes paid lunch for maintenance only.
(b)	If an employee is required to work overtime the Company will after two hours work make a hot meal available with no cost to the employee. If no hot meal is available the employee will receive $10.00 in lieu thereof.
An employee who properly reports for work as scheduled or as directed, unless he has been notified in advance not to report, will receive at least four (4) hours' work at his straight time base hourly rate or shall be paid for four (4) hours at his straight time base hourly rate, exclusive of premiums, except in cases of labour disputes, machinery, equipment, power or other utility breakdown, inclementweather.
47
14.11
14.12
14.13
The Company will provide a relief-man in the cutting room and kill floor.
Call-in Pay
An employee called back to work after having completed his regular shift and left the plant premises, shall be given a minimum of four (4) hours' pay at the employee's straight time rate unless he works to his scheduled starting time.
Weekly Guarantee
(a)	The Company agrees to guarantee every employee in every week of employment, thirty seven (37) hours' pay at a regular rate subject to the following provisions. Overtime, off-shift premium and weekend premium shall not be considered when calculating what guarantee, if any, is to be paid.
(b)	The guarantee referred to herein shall be reduced by
-48-
	the number of hours for which an employee is not eligible for payment of wages. This will include tardiness, or absence from work on any day or part of a day, quitting or hiring during the week, being engaged in a stoppage of work, suspension or dismissal or being on lay-off.
14.14	Straight time and overtime hours will be totaled separately by the supervisor.
ARTICLE 15	PAY ON DAY OF INJURY
15,01	An employee who is injured during working hours while properly performing his duties of employment and who is sent home from work by the Company or by a physician shall be paid for the time lost on the day he was injured at his regular straight time hourly rate. The number of hours paid on the day of injury will equal the number of hours worked by his department on the day of his injury.
	-49-
DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
ARTICLE 16	DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
16.01	An employee who has completed ninety (90) calendar days with the Company will be compensated for time lost as a result of one (1) of the following holidays being observed. Compensation shall be equivalent to eight (8) hours' pay at the employee's regular rate, provided he complies with the qualifications set forth in this Article 16. The designated holidays are: New Year's Day Labour Day Good Friday Thanksgiving Day Victoria Day Canada Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Civic Holiday In addition to the above, each employee who is scheduled to work on the day before Christmas and New Year's Day and works up to five (5) hours will be paid eight (8Jhours for that day. The parties agree that the 5 hour provision is intendedto ensure that the clean up crew is
	-50-
16.02
finished work early on the evening of these holidays and therefore will only apply when Christmas and New Year's Day falls on Tuesday thru Friday.
In addition to the above, once each year an employee who has attained seniority (with completion of the ninety (90) calendar day probation
period), shall be entitled to a personal day off with pay excluding the months of June, July and August, to be arranged at a time mutually agreeable between the employee and the immediate supervisor.
In order to qualify for payment for any of the holidays designated in this Article 16.01, (exceptforthe floater) the employee must work the full scheduled shift on the declared work day immediately prior to and the full scheduled shift on the declared work day immediately following the holiday except where the employee requests and is granted, prior to the holiday, permission in writing to be absent on
51
16.03
16.04
ARTICLE 17
17.01
one (1) only of the qualifying days.
When any of the above-noted holidays, referred to in Article 16.01 fall on Saturday or Sunday, the Friday preceding or Monday following shall be deemed to be the holiday for purposes of the Agreement.
If an employee is being paid sick benefit or compensation on a statutory holiday, the Company agrees to the difference between sick benefits or compensation pay and the regular eight (8) hours earnings for that day.
VACATION WITH PAY
Seniority employees shall be entitled to an annual vacation in accordance with the following schedules:
(a) for employees with less than one (I }year of seniority 4%.
52
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
one (1) year's seniority but less than five (5) year's seniority as at March 31st c£ each year - two (2) weeks @ 4%.
five (5) year's seniority but less than ten (10) years' seniority as at March 31st of each year - three (3) weeks @ 6%.
ten (10) year's seniority but less than fifteen (15) years' seniority as at March 31st of each year - four (4) weeks @ 8%.
fifteen (15) years' seniority or more as at March 31st of each year - five (5) weeks @ 10%.
Vacation Bonus
5-10 years $50.00 per week
10-15 years $100.00 per week
53
17.02
17.03
15 years or more $150.00 per week
Any employee hired after April 18, 1999 will not receive the vacation bonus.
An employee whose employment is terminated for any reason shall receive vacation pay for the period to which he is entitled.
The Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacation at times requested by employees. Employee can choose their entire Vacation entitlement during first pick by their seniority position. Only three (3) weeks can be chosen between June 1st and Sept 1st. Vacation time selected between June 1 st and Sept 1st must be taken. Employees eligible for vacations shall be notified of their vacation periods as far in advance as possible. The company will make a sincere effort to have up to 10% of each department off for vacation, if possible. This schedule will be mutually agreed by the Union and the Company.
-54-
ARTICLE 18 18.01
18.02
SAFETY AND HEALTH
The Company shall continue its practice of making reasonable provision for safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment. The Company and the Union agree to co-operate with the Health and Safety Committee concerning the health and safety of it's employees.
No employee shall continue to refuse to use or operate any machine, device or thing or to work in the work place after the employer has, pursuant to Section 3	(1)
investigated the report in the presence of the employee and the department health and safety representative, where the Company either disputes the report or takes steps to make the machine, device or thing or the place safe, or comply as per Safety Legislation , as amended from time to time. This Article 18.02 is made pursuant to Section 3 (c) of the Act respecting Employee's Health and Safety and
-55-
18.03
18.04
18,05
all references contained herein are made pursuant to such Statute.
A joint health and safety committee shall be constituted of an equal number of representatives of management and of the Union which shall identify potential danger, institute means of improving health and safety of employees, including health and safety programs. The committee shall meet at least once a month. Time spent on such meetings is to be considered time worked. Minutes shall be taken of all meetings and copies shall be sent to the employer and the Union office.
The Company will ensure that all its foremen and supervisors will co-operate fully with the safety committee in compliance with provincial regulations to investigate accidents.
The joint health and safety committee and the representatives thereof shall have full access to accident reports and other health
-56-
ARTICLE 19
19.01
and safety records in the possession of the employer, including records, reports, and data provided to and by Worker's Compensation Board and the government or its agencies.
WELFARE
To be eligible for benefits, all employees must complete ninety (90) days employment.
The Company agrees to pay on behalf	of	each	employee	hired
before April 18, 1999, one hundred percent (100)% of the cost of the Group Insurance Plan. Employees hired	after	April	18, 1999,	are
requiredto pay fifty percent (50%) of the premium cost of the Group Insurance Plan.
(a) Life Insurance:	all
employees will be covered for	one	(1) times	their
annual	income to a
maximum of $40,000.00;
57
(b)	Accidental	Death &
Dismemberment: $40,000.00 maximum per employee;
Refer to the Benefits Booklet for your entitlement.
(c)	Long-Term	Disability:
seventy per cent (70%) of an employee's monthly income to a maximum of $ 1 ,500.00. The non-evidence maximum is $1,500.00. Such payment shall be with respect to sickness or accident not covered by Worker's Compensation and shall be payable after one hundred and twenty (120) days of disability from sickness or accident and will continue to age sixty-five (65) or prior to recovery.
58
19.02
(d) Malor Medical ^ Plan, including Drugs: $10,000.00 per employee. The company agrees to-pay the unpaid deductible of chiropractor visits not covered by OHIP.
The Company agrees to pay on behalf of each employee hired before April 18, 1999, one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of a Weekly Indemnity Plan. Employees hired after April 18, 1999, are requiredto pay fifty percent (50%) of the premium cost of a Weekly Indemnity Plan. The Weekly Indemnity Plan is on the basis of 1-417, providing for benefits equaling sixty-four percent (64%) of 40 hours earnings to a maximum of $440, subject to the following.
(i) The waiting period will be waived in respect to an employee who is hospitalized or undergoes day surgery for treatments which involve an operation
-59-
19.03
that was previously admitted into a hospital for a period of twenty four (24) hours or greater.
(jjj to assist in defraying some of the costs of the implementation of this plan, the Company will be entitled to the entire twelve-twelfths (12/12) applicable rebate and/or premium reduction on Unemployment Insurance Commission payments which might accrue as a result of the implementation of the various benefits covered by this Collective Agreement.
The Insurance Company will notify the employees one (1) week prior to their benefits being expired.
All employees hired after April 18, 1999, will be entitled to the same benefit plan as existing employees, but will berequiredto pay 50% of the
-60-
19.04
19.05
premium costs. New employees will not be eligible for benefits until after 90 days of employment.
The Company agrees to pay on behalf of each seniority employee one hundred per cent (100%) of the cost of the Employer Health Tax.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement or in the Group Insurance Plan, such benefits and plans are necessarily qualified in their entirety by reference to the underlying policies or contractors of insurance. The terms of any contract issued in respect hereof by any Insurance agency or governmental agencies shall be controlling in all matters pertaining to qualifications of employees for benefits thereunder and in all matters pertaining to the existence and extent of benefits and conditions.
Dental Plan - The Company agrees to pay on behalf of each employee hired before April 18, 1999, one
-61-
19.06
hundred percent (100%) of the cost of a Dental Plan equal to Blue Cross No. 7. Employees hired after April 18, 1999, are required to pay fifty percent (50%) of the premium cost of a Dental Plan equal to Blue Cross No. 7. Referto your benefit Booklets for your entitlement.
Benefits -Dental effective January 1, 1999 currentfee schedule and guide.
Dental effective January 1, 2000 current fee schedule and guide.
Dental effective January 1, 2001 current fee schedule and guide.
Pension Plan - The Pension Plan instituted in 1982 will continue on. The Company will contribute $21.00 per week on behalf of all employees entitled to be members of the pension fund. The Pension is calculatedon a37 hourworkweek at $0.57 per hour, to a maximum of $21.00 a week. If an employee gets
62
paid for less than 37 hours, the
pension is calculated as follows:
Hours worked x $0.57 = weekly contribution.
The employees in the pension fund will be required to match the $21.00 weekly contribution but will be allowed an excess weekly contribution up to their legal maximum per year as determined by Revenue Canada. The Company and the employee's contribution into the Pension Plan will not be affected by increases or decreases in the Canada Pension Plan.
The Pension Plan for all employees with seniority as at March 1, 1999 will be voluntary. To receive the company portion, you must contribute to the Pension Plan.
New Employees
Employees hired after April 18, 1999, the date of ratification, will be considered new employees. New
-63-
19.07
19.08
employees will be entitled to participate in the Pension Plan after two (2) years of employment, all participation is voluntary.
If the new employee chooses to participate, he must contribute $12.00 per week and the company will match this contribution. Company contributions will be calculated on the basis of $.33 per hour to a maximum of $12.00 per week. To receive the company portion, you must contribute to the Pension Plan.
Vision Care - Upon presentation of a receipt for eye glasses or contact lenses the Company will pay up to a maximum of $300.00 in any two year period per family. Family is defined as on the registeredTDI Form.
The employer agrees that when an insurer carrying plans referred to in this Article 19 is changed, any new plan thereby established shall provide equivalent or superior coverage to the previous Plan.
-64-
19.09	No grievance may be processed in support of a claim or dispute in respect of the Group Insurance Plan and the decision of the insurer or governmental agency involved will be final and binding upon the parties hereto and upon the employee affected thereby.
19.10	If an employee is on leave for Workers' Compensation, Long Term Disability, Maternity, Compassionate Leave, etc. it is the workers' responsibility to contact the company at regular intervals to keep him advised of his illness and his expected date of return to work.
ARTICLE 20	WAGES
20.01	Attached to and forming part of this Collective Agreement is Schedule "A" Wages and Classifications. As agreed on January 7, 1981, in the event that a newjob classification or a flat rate trip is introduced into the plant, the Company will establish and put into effect a new classification and a rate covering the job in
	-65-
	question and notify the Chief Steward of the Local Union. If the Union requests management to negotiate the rate and they are unable to agree on a classification rate for the newjob the disputed rate and/or classification may be treated as a grievance.
20.02	An employee who is displaced from his job shall have the right to displace employees with less seniority provided he is able to perform the job. Employees will be limited to two bumps and may only bump the same class or down. The Company will provide ten (10) days training.
ARTICLE 21	CLOTHING
21.01	The Company will supply laundered outer work clothing, oilskins, aprons and maintenance coveralls to employees. Such apparel remains the property of the Company and must be returned for new issue or upon separation of the employee.
	-66-
21.02
21.03
The Company shall furnish all Knives, steels, wet-stones, meat trimmer hooks, scabbards, mesh gloves and arm guards, which are necessary for the work of the employees using them subject to the establishment of regulations to prevent abuse. Such tools remain the property of the Company. When employees are requesting a new knife or similar tool referred to herein, the worn or broken tool must be turned in at the time of replacement. Further, if the incidents or type of wear or breakage indicates unreasonable or abusive use of the equipment, the employee may, at the option of the Company, be required to pay for the replacement item. The Company will purchase the first pair of earmuffs (only one pair, upon completion of 90 days, replacement is the responsibility of the employees).
The Company will reimburse maintenance employees only up to $200,00 per year for tools subject to presentation of broken or new tools
-67-
21.04
ARTICLE 22
ARTICLE 23 23.01
and receipts for purchases of same. If an employee does not use his entire $200.00 in one year, he may carry forward any unused portion to the next year.
The Company will pay each employee who has completed 90 days and is on the active payroll on January 1 and July 1 of each year the amount of $90.00 each time for the purpose of obtaining safety footwear.
GENERAL
Buzzer - The Company will put in a start stop buzzer on the kill floor.
MAINTENANCE
MAINTENANCE : fully qualified with provincial certificate as follows for the following positions:
1999-2001 -$19.15
68
Electrician fully qualified with
provincial certificate
Maintenance (Millwright, Welder, Plumber) fully qualified with provincial certificate
Refrigeration Operator - fully qualified with provincial certificate
Maintenance Mechanic - without certificate as follows:
1999-2001 -$18.25
1.	All other employees working in the maintenance department will be Red Circle.
2.	New employees hired in the Maintenance Department will have the proper provincial certificate.
3.	The starting rate for new employees in the Maintenance Department will be $1.00 belowthejob
-69-
23.02
rate for the first 6 months. After 1 year's service, the job rate will be paid.
4.	The company andthe union will establish an Apprenticeship system under the guidelines of the Government Training Branch.
5.	The hours of work for the refrigeration operators have been outlined in a Letter of Understandingwhich will be part of this Collective Agreement.
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
The company and the union will establish an Apprentice and Refrigeration Training Program. Any opening will be posted on the plant bulletin boards.
1.	Employees who are interested and have Grade 12 education, may apply.
-70-
2.	The employee with the most seniority and the proper education will be asked to write an entrance test at an established College or Trades School.
3.	The employee who passes the test will be enrolled in the program as outlined by the Apprenticeship Branch, Skills Training Division.
4.	The apprentice is expected to attend proper night classes or full- time day classes at a College.
5.	If the apprentice attends day classes he will apply for U.I.C. and the company will make up the difference of his wages.
6.	Employees who qualify for the program will be paid as outlined in the Apprenticeship contract but no employee will have to
	-71-
ARTICLE 24 24.01
take reduction in wages.
7.	Employeeswho do not fulfil their obligation under their apprenticeship contract will be transferred back into the plant operation.
8.	The union will be informed of all apprentices put into the program and will be the co- signer of any arrangement.
9.	If the company cannot find a qualified employee in the plant, it has the right to recruit from any other source.
DURATION
This Agreement shall become effective on April 18, 1999 and remain in full force and effect and shall not be re-openable save and except otherwise expressly provided, until the 31st day of December 2001 and shall continue
-72-
24.02
automatically thereafter during
annual periods of two (2) years each,
unless either party notifies the other in writing as provided in Article 24.02 hereof of its desire to negotiate amendmentsto this Agreement.
Notice that amendments are required shall only be given during the period of not more than three (3) months and not less than one (1) month prior to the 31st day of December, 2001 or similar annual periods thereafter. If notice of desire to amend this Agreement is given by either party in accordance with the foregoing, the other party agrees to meet for the purpose of negotiations.
73
DATED AT GUELPH, THIS_ DAY OF________19
BETTER BEEF LTD. U NI T E D FOO D AN D COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION REGION 18, A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C. ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL617P (Local 175)
For the Company	For the Union:
Ben deJonae
Todd Klimczuk
Lome Goldstein	Eldon Wilk
G.W. Myers Derrick LeDrew
Gary Wilfanq Debbie Beckner
Shawn Haggerty
74
SCHEDULE A WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
WAGES	The wages and classifications will be
as follows:
Category:	Year 1999 Year 2000 Year 2001
1
2
3
4
5
6 7
18.90 18.25 17.60 16.05 15.00
13.90
12.90
18.90 18.25 17.60 16.05 15.00
13.90
12.90
18.90 18.25 17.60 16.05 15.00
13.90
12.90
START	11.90
STUDENTS	7.00
All new employees will start at$11.90 per hour and will reach their appropriate category rate evenly over the next 24 months.
SHIFT PREMIUM	$0.25 per hour
This will be paid to employees whose NORMAL starting time on a steady shift is from 2:00 pm. to 2:00 am.
75
Students
Students employed for the school vacation period (May 1st to Sept 1st) are not considered lull time employees and will have to re-apply after Sept 15th for lull time status. Students must be 15 years of age to be hired.
76
CLASSIFICATIONS
HAMBURGER ROOM PATTY ROOM STEAK ROOM ROAST BEEF
Class 1	
Class 2	Formulator
Class 3	K-Pack operator, formax operator, rotation/supply of Raw Material.
Class 4	Roast Beef, AEW automatic saw
Class 5	Trim steaks, weigh steaks or fresh vac-pac meats, Blend sausage
Class 6	Load chiller, operate vat dumper & grinder; finished box handler, stuff sausage
Class 7	Make boxes, label boxes, load boxes, strap boxes, load roll stock machine, operate press, general
77
CUTTING DEPARTMENT
Class 1 Class 2
Class 3
Class 4
Large Jones saw, break primals
Pull tenderloin, bone butts, pull tips, bone ribs, bone necks, blades, pull clods, drop full rounds, special trim.
Small saw, trim tenders, bone strips, trim strips and shortloin, trim butts, bone aich bone, split hips, pull heel and trim outside, roast beef, bone and trim shoulders, bone x-rib and short rib, trim chx rolls, bone points, final trim on point, special trim.
Put sides on rail, drop fronts, combo cuts, trim flapmeat, trim flank steak, bone & trim steak tail, bone hind & front shank, peel tips, bone & trim flank, bone braising rib, trim fat caps & cap meat, trim clods, trim chx flats, trim chx short rib, rough trim points, trim trim.
78
Class 5	Check trim fronts and hinds, hang hips, trim skirts, trim pectoral, trim heels, core sample, end of raw product line, 1 bone short ribs, special trim and remove cod fat.
Class 6	Transfer onto boning lines, pick bones, cut bones, core sample helper, seam insides, Hip Trim before Hind Saw, knife sharpening helper.
Class 7	Janitor
SANITATION	
Class 1	
Class 2	Lead hand
Class 3	Set up
Class 4	
Class 5	
Class 6	Sanitation
Class 7	Janitor
79
SUNDRY
Class 1	
Class 2	Receiver dry goods
Class 3	Laundry Room Operator
Class 4	Wash wheels kill, receiver dry goods helper
Class 5	Soap & towel dispensers, wheels to wheel room, shaker plant.
Class 6	Yard man, laundry room.
Class 7	Shaker Plant helper
80
GLOBAL
Class 1
Class 2 Class 3	Lead hand, Roast Beef
Class 4 Class 5	Saw
Class 6	Roast beef helper
Class 7	General labour
	-81-
MDB Class 1 Class 2
Class 3 Class 4 Class 5	Machine operator
Class 6	Filling boxes, putting them in the freezer, Bone cutter
Class 7	Pack Bones/General Labour
KILL FLOOR Class 1	First leg, second leg
Class 2	Skin flanks, open up fronts, skin necks & shanks, eviscerating, splitting saw, sticking, skin bellies
	-82-
Class 3
Class 4
Class 5
Class 6
Hide pullers, cut off tail and fat,
weigh scale, bone heads, clean
heads/jaws, save hearts etc., run intestines
Knocking, cut bung/cut tail, brisket saw, push weasens, drop heads, drop kidney fat, pull jaws, save edible fat, shackling
Cut horns/ears, lips, cut feet, tie weasens/help heads, drop jaws/tongue, drop cheeks/tongues, drop bungs, neck trim/windpipes, trim heads/save tongue
Cattle chaser (outside & inside), transfer first leg, transfer second leg, front trim, hip trim, front shank trim, hind trim, loin trim, tail trim, whizknife channel fat, railing cattle in the cooler, operate tripe wash machines, mountain chain, cut scalps, weasand meat and pancreas and other glands, save animal food, save omassum and hang tripe, open paunch, cut scalps, trim omassum, save intestine, trim fat from tripe, work cecum, trim tripe, wash tail, 1sl
-83-
	leg hock cutting, Trim Lung, saving abomasum, saving arteries, trim rectum, trimming abomasum,.
Class 7	Put on plastic, wash heads, hind wash, front wash, shrouding, save animal food, save intestines, clean floor, large intestines, put plastic on bung, Put “0" ring on weasand, put plastic on tenderloin, Bungee cord high and low, Vacuum, hip trim, Spinal cord vacuum.
FANCY MEATS, INTESTINESAND FOOT ROOM	
Class 1	
Class 2	Lead hand
Class 3	Scaling
Class 4	Trim tongues, cheekmeat, hanging tenders, trim hearts, tails
Class 5	Skin and deveine livers, skinning tongues -84-
C lass 6	Operate Strichler machine and small saw, strap and load boxes on skid, vac pac product, fresh livers, hearts, hanging tenders, tongues, cheekmeat, lips, feet, tails
Class 7	All work in intestine room except Strichler machine, all work in foot room except small saw; wrapping tongues, packing spinal cords, sweetbreads, animal food, make boxes and general labour
PACKING	
Class 1	
Class 2	Lead Hand
Class 3	Scale full boxes, scale and handle full combo's, keep goer
Class 4	Vac pac operator, box maker operator, box closer operator, cryovac operator
Class5 Box loading, box labeling, box handling, moving skids, Set up	
	-85-
Class 6	Trim line, transfer, bagging, boneguarding, Offline bagging, Boxing and Packing
Class 7	Clean up
SHIPPING DEPARTMENT	
Class 1	
Class 2	Fresh Dispatch Peddle, inventory control fresh (days), lead hand, inventory control frozen (days), finished dispatch (warehouse)
Class 3	Night inventory fresh, Scaling Swinging Beef, Freezer person (night)
Class 4	Positioning and Retrieving Skids of Product, Order Picking, Freezer Helper(days& nights)
Class 5	Skid off Area,
Class 6	Loading Swinging Beef, Delivery on Premise -86-
Class 7	Loading Hot/Cold Fat, General Laborer
COOLER	
Class 2	Lead hand
Class 5	Saw cattle
Class 6	Shrouds, rolling beef, move beef in sales cooler, take beef out, hang beef
PLATE ROOM	
Class 1	
Class 2	
Class 3	Bone Pastrami, Scale and Pack off
Class 4	Pull Skirts, Saws, Bone Braising Ribs, Trim Pastrami, 123 Bone Short Rib, Utility Person
Class 5	Three Bone Plate, Finger Meat, Trim inside and outside skirts, Vac-pac, Special Trim
	-87-
Class 6 Class 7
RARN Class 6
Checking trim, Ragging and Boxing Skinning Skirts
Rarn helpers
88-
LETTER OF UNDERSTl NDING #1
This will confirm our understanding with respect to Schedules in excess of eight (8) hours per shift in Article 14 of this Collective Agreement.
The parties have agreed that the Company may establish schedules of twelve (12) hours per shift for the refrigeration operators subject to the following:
1	In the refrigeration area the hours of
regular work will be scheduled on the basis of thirty-six (36) hours in a payroll week and forty-four (44) hours in the following week.
2.	For the purpose of calculating
overtime employees will be paid one and one-half (I%)times their regular rate for:
a) Hours worked in excess of the twelve (12) hours per day.
89
ER OF UNDERSTANDING #1 (C____________
b) Hours worked on the first non-scheduled day in the week and double time on the second non-scheduled day of the week.
3.	Refrigeration	operators	who	are
required to work on one of the designated holidays as outlined under Article 16 shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 Vz) plus holiday pay	for hours	that	are
scheduled to work.
4.	Operators whose holiday falls on his
scheduled	day off	will	be
compensated at eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate.
5.	The Company and the Union agree that during the term of this Collective Agreement the Chief Engineers will help to repair and maintain the equipment, relieve operators during sickness and vacations if no other operators are available.
90
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#! (Continued)
6.	All operators will be covered under
the Collective Agreement except for the changes outlined above.
COMPANY	UNION
BendeJonae	Todd Klimczuk
Lome Goldstein	Eldon Wilk
________________	G, W. Myers
________________	Derrick LeDrew
________________	Gary Wllfang
________________	Debbie Beckner
________________	Shawn Haggerty
91
LETTEROF UN PERSIAN DING #2
RED CIRCLE EMPLOYEES
All current employees whose wages are still effected as a result of the 1991-1993 Collective Agreement and had their wages Red Circled, will have the following changes made to their rate of pay:
Upon signing of this agreement, their rate will be lowered by 25% of the difference of what they are presently being paid and what the job they are on is currently classified.
On January 1, 2000 their wages will be lowered by a further 25% of the difference.
On January 1, 2001 their wages will be lowered by a further 25% of the difference.
On January 1, 2002 their wages will be lowered to the proper rate of pay.
If the employee voluntarily accepts another job, he will be paid the applicable rate.
COMPANY
Ben deJonge Lome Goldstein
UNION
Todd Klimczuk Eldon Wilk G. W. Mvers Derrick LeDrew Gary Wilfana Debbie Beckner Shawn Haggerty
92
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGS
The mp and a Union agree that they will sit down [id discuss the current job posting system in order to fix the current problem.
COMPANY	UNION
Ben deJonae	Todd Klimczuk
Lome Goldstein	Eldon Wilk
_________________	G. W. Myers
_________________	Derrick LeDrew
_________________	GarvWilfang
_________________	Debbie Beckner
_________________	Shawn Haggerty
93
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
The Company and the Union discussed the Union's concerns regarding contracting out, the Company agreed that sixty (60) days from the date of ratification of the contract that they would terminate their contract with the existing sanitation company on the kill floor.
The Company further confirmed that they will not contract out any work currently done by bargaining unit employees. This would not preclude the company from using outside contractors as per their current practice.
This Letter of Understanding will be in effect from the date of ratification and will expire on December 31, 2001.
COMPANY	UNION
Ben deJonge	Todd Klimczuk____________
Lome Goldstein	Eldon Wilk_______________
________________	G, W. Mvers______________
________________	DerrickLeDrew____________
________________	Gary Wilfana_____________
________________	DebbieBeckner____________
________________	Shawn Haggerty___________
94
NORTHERN REGION
JIM ANDRESS
Secretary-Treasurer
Bill Kalka
Union Representative
Colby Flank
Unbn Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
Room 21, Lakehead Labour Centre, 929 Fort William Road, Thunder Bay, Ontario P7B 3A6 Phone: (807) 346-4227 Fax: (807) 346-4055 Wats (800) 465-6932
EASTERN REGION
Dan Lacroix
Director
Union Representative
Ray Bromley Luc Lacelle
Union Representative Unic' ^sentative
Marilyn Lang
Union Representative
Ian Miller
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
20 Hamilton Ave. North, Ottawa, Ont. K1Y 1B6 Phone: (613) 725-2154 Fax: (613) 725-2328 (800)267-5295
SOUTHWEST REGION
Dan Onlchuk
Absolom
Julie Marentette
Union Representative
Sherman
Union Representative
Angus
Onion Representative
Steve Springall
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
124 Sydney St. South, Kitchener, Ont. N2G 3V2 Phone: (519)744-5231 Fax: (519)744-8357 (800)265-6345
CENTRAL REGION
Jim Hastings
Executive Assistant
Larry Bain
Union Representative
Jerry Clifford
Union Representative
Mike Brennan Kate Chrysler
Union Representative Union Representati
Union Representative	Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
2200 Argentia Road, MississaimjQrtariaLSN. 2K7 Phone- (905) 821 -8329 Faxfg05) 82T-7144 Toll-free outside Metro oronto (800) 565-8329
CENTRAL REGION con’t
I Dud
epresentative
Don Morin
Union Representative
Dan Sorbin
Union Representative
Teresa M;.
Union Representative
Fernando Reis
Union Representative
Harry Sutton
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
2200 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821 -8329 Fax (905) 821-7144 Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800) 565-8329
SOUTH • CENTRAL REGION
Jim Andress
Secretary-Treasurer
Judith Burch
Union Reoresentative
Kevin Dowling
Union Representative
Maureen McCarthy
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
2200 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821-8329 Fax (905) 821-7144 Toll-free outside Metro Toronto
(800) 565-8329
ORGANIZING TEAM
(905) 821-8329	(800) 565-8329
John Fuller
Executive Assistant
Serge I |
Union Representative
Mark Flannlgan
Organizing Co-ordinator
0'
Rick Wauhkonen
Union Representative
BENEFIT DEPARTMENT
(905)821-8329	(800)565-8329
Herb MacDonald	Karl Goennemann
Benefits Co-ordinator	Benefits Representative
UFCW
(519)744-5231	(800)265-6345
Kip Connolly
Director
LEGAL DEPARTMENT
(905) 821-8329	(800) 565-8329
Kelvin Kucey	Georgina Watts
Legal Counsel	Legal Counsel
Naveen Mehta
ADMINISTRATION
(905) 821-8329	(800)565-8329
Robert Linton
Communications
Representative
EDUCATION & TRAINING
Walter Lumsden
Director
Victor Carrozzino Sylvia Groom Training &	Training &
Education Staff Education Staff
Dave MacMillan
Training & Education Staff
OFFICE
1450 Meyerside Drive, 7th floor Mississauga, Ontario L5T 2N5 Phone: (905) 564-2500 Fax: (905) 564-2898 Wats (800) 728-8902