GALCO FOOD PRODUCTS LIMITED
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
LOCAL 175, A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.
C______ij x
O 0:^.^ 9( 0 J

Name..........
Address.......
Phone.........
Soc. Ins. No..
Work Address..
Work Phone....
Union Steward. Phone.........
United Food & Commercial Workers U.F.C.W. Locals 175 and 633 2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821-8329 www.ufcw175.com
Toll-free outside Metro Toronto 1-800-565-8329 Fax (905) 821-7144
Revised 07.00
LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT U.F.C.W.
LOCAL 175
Dear Fellow Members:
I	wish to welcome new members to Locals 175 and 633 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, and to thank long standing members for their continued support and assistance over the years.
I hope you will all read this contract and become aware of your rights and privileges as union members. It is an important document. It identifies and guarantees your income, benefits and job security while you work for your current employer. Like an insurance policy, a warranty for a new car, or the deed to your home, if you are not aware of the agreement you entered into, you may not benefit from it.
As a union member with a contract, you have the freedom to plan for the future. You will know what your income will be in advance. Your rights and benefits are written down and cannot be revoked, and your job security is a primary element. Non-union workers do not have this protection. Their wages and benefits may be cut at any time, as may their jobs.
Become familiar with your contract. If unsure about an item or if you think your concern is not covered, speak to your Union Steward. He or she is a co-worker trained by the Union to help you with concerns and grievances in the workplace. If the problem cannot be settled by the Steward, a full-time Union Representative can be contacted at any time to assist you.
In addition to Stewards in the workplace and Union Representatives who support them, we also have a team of professionals who provide support.
We should all be proud of our Union's achievements. Wfe have proven many times that employers can treat their workers fairly and still run their business efficiently.
In the United Food and Commercial Workers' Union, we are committed to job security in an ever changing social environment. Only your Union can be relied upon to protect your rights.
Your Union offers you representation before the Workers Safety Insurance Board. If you are injured on the job, our trained staff will support you and help you in any way they can.
Non-Union workers are at the mercy of their employer. This is one reason our Local Union continues to grow.
Our organizing team works around the clock to help bring other workers into our union. If you know of someone who works in a non-union environment, do them a favour and give our organizers a call.
We also believe in the education of our members and their children. Lack of economic resources should not be a hindrance to further education. In this regard, the UFCW offers a number of scholarships at the local, national and international level. They are for your benefit as Union members.
In addition, your Union works to keep you up-to-date about legislation concerning your working rights.
Your Local Union represents some 40,000 members across Ontario. As we continue to grow, we have moved to keep up with the growth in areas of servicing and all-round members' support. Included in this booklet is a list of Union representatives and other representatives there to support you, the member.
Only by all of us working together can we keep what we have gained over years of hard negotiations and obtain what is rightfully ours in the future. Our labour may be the only commodity we have to sell. Let us not sell it cheaply.
Please feel free to contact me at any time with questions or concerns about the Union. This is your Union. You put the 'U' in our Union.
In Solidarity,
Wayne Hanley, President,
U.F.C.W. Local 175.
OFFICFRS
Wayne Hanley
President
Jim Andress
Secretary-Treasurer
Betty Pardy
Recorder
Jim Hastings
Executive Assistant
John Fuller
Executive Assistant
As the elected officers of Local 175, it is our job to ensure the smooth running and day-to-day operations of your Local Union. V\fe represent some 40,000 members across Ontario, of whom some 25,000 are retail workers. Others work in a wide variety of units, including nursing homes, funeral homes, hotels, processing plants, and manufacturing plants. This requires versatility, knowledge and tireless effort. To accomplish this job, we are supported by your Union Steward, Union Representatives, Benefits Representatives, staff lawyers and communications representative. If we are not available or cannot answer a given question, we have the resources to find out. Remember, we are here to serve you.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
The United Food and Commercial Workers is one of the largest and most respected unions. You are one of over 200,000 members in Canada and 1,500,000 members in North America.
The UFCW is the result of a merger between two of the oldest and most respected unions in North America; the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America and the Retail Clerks International Union. This mergertook place on June 6,1979. The new union represents workers in nearly all aspects of Canadian life and is mirrored in the makeup of Locals 175 and 633.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175 AND 633
Your local unions, with over 40,000 members, is the largest UFCW local union, and the largest local union of any union in Canada.
This Local has the expertise, financial stability and resources to provide you, the member, with the best negotiating team, the best legal assistance, and the best all around service of any union in the country.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175 and 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD LOCAL 175 EXECUTIVE BOARD:
PRESIDENT
Wayne Hanley, Oakville
SECRETARY-TREASURER
Jim Andress, Guelph
RECORDER Betty Pardy, London
VICE-PRESIDENTS
ittcfc Alagierski, Mississauga Phil Anderson, Peterborough Toni Armstrong, Hawkestone Bryan Braithwaite, Chatham John Brodhagen, Chesley Judith Burch, Toronto Freda Courtnage, Brantford Matt Davenport, Guelph Bruce Dosman, Hanover Valerio Ferreira, North York Roland Fortin, Kitchener David Fox, Napanee Sheila Grant, Belleville Wayne Harbin, Guelph Jim Hastings, Mississauga
Tim Kelly, Stratford Masood Khan, Scarborough Cliff Kostyniuk, St. Catharines Marilyn Lang, Cobourg Angus Locke, Kitchener Rosemarie Mathieu, Oshawa Rodney Merkley, Thunder Bay James Montgomery, Welland Pat Newell, Port Hope Bill Pettigrew, Ayr Leslie Sardo-Viscuglia, Hamilton Don Schmidt, Walkerton June Towler, Bradford Margaret White, Trenton Coreena Zurkan, Kenora
LOCAL 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
PRESIDENT
Dan Bondy, Amherstburg
SECRETARY-TREASURER Linval Dixon, Pickering RECORDER Roy Reed, Orillia
VICE-PRESIDENTS:
Anthony DiMaio, Woodbridge Neil Hotchkiss, McGregor MaryLou Mallett, Arthur
What You Get For Your Union Dues
•	Higher than average wages and benefits. According to recent government statistics, unionized workers make, on average, 38% more in wages and benefitsthan non-union workers in the same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding investment in your future.
. Job Security. Your Union will not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause, and it is up to management to prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens of thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitration expenses just to protect your rights. If you are unjustly discharged, your Union will spare no expense in getting you back to work. Does a non-union worker have that kind of security?
•	Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights are vitally important to your Union. Did you deserve a promotion and not get it? Are non-bargaining unit people doing your work? Wfere your bumping rights ignored? Is your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairly disciplined for a very minor mistake? The Grievance Procedure allows the Union to go to bat for you. In a non-union workplace you have no rights except what management chooses to allow you.
. Problems with Workplace Safety and Insurance Act or Employment Insurance? The Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representing you to government agencies. These services are free to you, should you ever need them. Non-union workers are usually in the dark and out in the cold in these matters. They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help.
. Pensions, Dental insurance, Sick Pay, Disability Insurance, etc. Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family. Should they be unable to work because of sickness or accident, would they trade their insurance protection for yours? You bet they would!
Add up what you paid in Union Dues last year (don't forget that they are tax-deductible). Compare that amount with what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes, beer, movies, cable television or “impulse” gifts.
WHAT IS A UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected front-line representative of the
United Food and Commercial Workers. It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rights and to represent you to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A
Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Union Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility. Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Steward to look into a violation of your contract rights unless you are willing to file a grievance if necessary. Their time is as important as yours. Your Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement, but only if you are willing to see it through.
Despite the trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you're not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Union Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
UNION SCHOLARSHIPS FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
Locals 175 and 633 are also aware of the need for training and education in the workplace resulting from technological change, corporate restructuring and the abandonment of our governments towards the training and education of the workforce.
To address that need Locals 175 and 633 offer annual regional stewards training seminars. These seminars are held separate from courseswhich are available to members at the Locals Training and Education Centre in Mississauga. Cn aweekly basis the Union offers courseswhich allow our members to further their formal education and increase their ability and skill level in areas ranging from computer foundations, literacy and math upgrading to steward training and workplace advocacy.
In addition, twice a year the Locals offer stewards and members scholarship programs which are conducted at the LocalsTraining and Education Centre in Mississauga.
Thirty scholarshipsare awarded annually to stewards province wide to attend a weeklong in-depth training and education seminar. The theme of the week is "Labour's History; Past, Present and Future" and ensures that our stewards are well informed and educated to be representativesof our Union in their workplaces. Stewards also receive nine hours of hands on computertraining during the weeklong course.
Thirty members' scholarships are also awarded annually to provide members throughout the province an opportunity to attend a weeklong computer training course. The course is a basic computer course which will give members an understanding of how a computer works and an introduction to using a computer.
With each of these scholarship programs the Locals will cover the cost of the course and materials as well as the members' wages, per diems, accommodation and transportation costs.
To find out more about courses offered through the Training and Education Centre or for more information on the scholarship programs, please contact the Training and Education Centre at (905) 564-2500 or 1-800-728-8902.
WORKPLACE SAFETY AND INSURANCE ACT 'W.S.I.A” Formally
WORKERS COMPENSATION ACT "W.C.B”
The Workplace Safety and Insurance Act, “W.S.I.A.", formally, Workers Compensation Act or “W.C.B.” is an insurance program to protect workers against loss of income due to job related disabilities. Here are answers to the most commonly asked questions:
1.	HOW DOES THE WORKER REPORT AN ACCIDENT?
if an accident occurs at work, section 22 (1) of The Act requires a worker to file a claim as soon as possible alter the accident that gives rise to the claim, but in no case shall he or she file a claim more than six months after the accident or, in the case of an occupational disease, after the worker learns that he or she suffers from the disease.
2.	IS THERE AN EXTENSION OF TIME?
The Board may permit a claim to be filed after the six month period expires if, in the opinion of the Board it is just to do so.
3.	WHAT FORMS MUST BE COMPLETED TO RECEIVE BENEFITS?
Section 22 (4)... A claim must be on a form approved by the Board and must be accompanied by such information and documents as the Board may require.
4.	WHAT CONSENT OF DISCLOSURE IS REQUIRED?
Section 22 (5) When filing a claim, a worker must consent to the disclosure to his or her employer of information provided by a health professional under subsection 37(e) concerning the worker’s funcitional abilities. The disclosure is for the soie purpose of facilitating the worker’s return to work.
5.	FAILURE TO FILE?
Section 22 (6)... If the claimant does not file the claim with the Board in accordance with this section or does not give the consent required by sub-section (5). no benefits shall be provided under the insurance plan unless the Board, in its opinion, decides that it is just to do so.
6.	NOTICE TO EMPLOYER?
Section 22 (7).. The claimant shall give a copy cf his or her claim to the worker’s employer at the time the claim is given to the board.
7.	NOTICE OF MATERIAL CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES?
Section 23 (3)... A person receiving benefits under the insur-
arice plan or who may be entitled to do so shall notify the Board of a material change in circumstances in connection with the entitlement within 10 days after the material change occurs.
8.	WAGES FOR DAY OF ACCIDENT?
Section 24 (1)... The employer shall pay a worker who is entitled to benefits under the insurance plan his or her wages and employment benefits for the day of the injury as if the accident had notoccured.
9.	EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
Section 25 (1)... Throughoutthe first year after a worker is injured, the employer shall make contributions for employment benefits in respect of the worker when the worker is absent from work because of the injury. However, the contributions are required only if..
(a)	the employer was making contributions for employment benefits in respect of the worker when the injury occured:
and
(b)	the worker continues to pay his or her contributions if any, for the employment benefits while the worker is absent from work.
10.	DUTY TO CO-OPERATE IN RETURN TO WORK?
Section 40 (1)... The employer of an injured worker shall cooperate in the early and safe return to work of the worker by,
(a)	contacting the worker as soon as possible after the injury occurs and maintaining communication throughout the period of the worker’s recovery and impairment:
(b)	attempting to provide suitable employment that is availableand consistent with the worker’s functional abilities and that, when possible, restores the worker’s pre-injury earnings:
(c)	giving the Board such information as the Board may request concerning the worker’s return to work: and
(d)	doing such other things as may be prescribed.
SAME WORKER?
Section 40 (2)... The worker shall co-operate in his or her early and safe return to work by:
(a)	contacting his or her employer as soon as possible after the injury occurs and maintaining communication throughout the period of the worker’s recovery and impairment:
(b)	assisting the employer, as may be required or requested, to identify suitable employment that is available and consistent
Workers may not:
•	Remove or turn off any safety device.
. Use any equipment or work in a manner which may endanger yourself or another worker.
•	Engage in horseplay of any kind.
The Right to Refuse Unsafe Work
If you encounter an unsafe condition at work, your first obligation is to report it to your Supervisor, Once you have done that, you may refuse to work at a job or task where you have reason to believe that:
•	Any machine or equipment you are supposed to use is likely to endanger yourself or another worker, or
•	The condition of the workplace itself is hazardous.
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal. He must then investigate the matter in your presence and that of a health and safety representative of the workers (normally the Steward or a member of the Health & Safety Committee). If the Supervisor orders you back to work and you are still not satisfied that the job is safe, you may continue to refuse to work, provided you have reasonable grounds to believe the condition still constitutes a hazard.
At this point, the Inspector from the Ministry of Labour must be called in. While you are waiting for him, the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he is informed that the job was refused and the reasons for the refusal. This second worker also has the same right to refuse. The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable alternative work, subject to the Collective Agreement.
The decision of the Inspector is final. Although his order may be appealed, you must return to the job if he so orders, pending the outcome of such appeal.
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY ACT
Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management and workers live up to their responsibilities under Ontario's Occupational Health and Safety Act. Here is a quick guide to the Act. For details, refer to the Act itself, which is found in the small green book which must be posted in every workplace. Employer's Duties
Among other things, the employer must:
. Provide information, instruction and training so that the employee can work in a safe manner.
•	Acquaint the worker with any workplace hazard.
•	Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
•	Co-operate with and assist the health and safety committee and representative.
•	Take every precaution reasonablefor the protectionof the worker. Supervisor's Duties
In stores, the Supervisor is normally the Store Manager. He must:
•	Ensure that the worker works in a safe manner and uses all the equipment, protective devices or clothing that is required.
•	Advise a worker of any potential or actual danger to health and safety.
•	Provide written safety instructions, where required.
. Be familiar with the Act and regulations.
Note: Department Heads in the bargaining unit must also ensure that workers work in a safe manner, as above, but they cannot discipline workers who refuse, for example, to wear safety equipment. If a meat manager is unable to convincea fellow worker to wear a mesh apron when he is required to do so, he should simply report the situation to the Store Manager.
Workers’ Obligations
•	Use all safety equipment and wear all protective clothing required by the employer.
•	Report any potentially unsafe condition or defect in safety equipment to your Supervisor.
•	Obey the Health and Safety law and all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulationsto your Supervisor.
Maternity Benefits:
You must have worked and paid EL premiums for at least 700
hours in the last 52 weeks, or since the beginning of your last El
claim. You can start collecting maternity benefits up to 8 weeks before you are scheduled to give birth. However, benefits cannot be received laterthan 17 weeks after the baby is due or born, unless the infant is confined to a hospital.
Parental Benefits:
Parental benefits can be collected for up to 10 weeks by both natural and adoptive parents while they are caring for a newborn or adopted child. The time allotment may be extended to 15 weeks if the child is six months or older at the time of arrival in your home and suffers from a physical, psychological or emotional condition that requires extended care. The benefits can be claimed by one parent or split between the two, but if they are split, each parent will have a two week waiting period.
Benefits are paid at 55% of your average insured earnings up to a maximum of $413 per week.
Discharge or Quit:
No regular benefitsare paid to those workers who quit a job without just cause or who are fired for misconduct. You may appeal a disqualification. Contact your Union if you need assistancewith your appeal.
FOR MORE INFORMATION
CONTACT
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT CANADA OR
CANADA EMPLOYMENT CENTRE
SHOULD YOU HAVE A PROBLEM CALL YOUR
LOCAL UNION REPRESENTATIVE FOR HELP!
How to Calculate the Benefit Amount?
The benefit rate is based on your average insured earnings in the last 26 weeks of work. Your insured earnings will be averaged over a number of weeks known as a divisor. The divisor is the greater of:
(a)	the number of weeks of insured earnings in the last 26 week period; or
(b)	the number of weeks specified in the divisor table.
If you worked for only the minimum number of weeks required to qualify, or for one week longer than that, then the minimum divisor applies to you.
Intensity Rule:
Any week of regular benefits collected after June 30,1996 could affect your benefit rate on future claims. Wfeeks of benefits claimed will stay on your claim history for five (5)years. Working while on a claim can help you to reduce the number of weeks on your claim history. Your claim history is maintained for five years.
Work Credits:
Claimants who work while they receive regular benefits and earn enough to reduce their El cheques will be able to earn work credits to be applied against the intensity rule. The total amount they save the El system by working while on a claim will be converted into weeks of unpaid benefits. Those weeks will then be credited against the application of the intensity rule for the next claim in the next five years.
Sick Benefits:
Sick benefits are paid for up to 15 weeks, if you have 700 hours of insurableemploymentinthe last 52 weeks or since the start of your last claim. If you get sick after your employmentwas interrupted for another reason, such as temporary layoff, you may be eligible with less than 700 hours. Medical reports are necessary.
EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (formerly UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE)
Cn June SO, 1906 the Employment Insurance Act came into effect. Additional changes became effective January 1,1997. The new system reflects afundamental restructuring of the old Unemployment Insurance System.
“Where to Apply?"
Apply at the local Human Resource Centre of Canada. Check the telephone directory under Human Resources Development Canada or Canada Employment Centre for the off ice nearest you.
Regular Benefits:
You can receive regular benefits if you lost your job and you can't find work, provided that you meet these requirements:
. you have paid into the El account;
. you have worked the required minimum number of hours in the last 52 weeks: the number of hours of work needed, may range from 420-700 hours depending on the unemployment rate in your region.
. there are two exceptions: if this is your first job ever, or your first job after coming back into the workforce after an absence of two years or more, you will need a minimum of 910 hours of work to qualify regardless of the local unemployment rate.
In most cases you will receive 55% of your insured earnings to a maximum of $413 per week. Claimants who are in a low income family (an income of less than $25,921) with children and receivethe Child Tax Benefit will receive a Family Supplement based on your Child Tax Benefit. Your benefit rate can be increased to a maximum of 65% but not greater than the maximum benefit rate of $413.
Claimants can collect benefits between 14 and 45 weeks depending on the unemployment rate in their region, and the number of hours they have worked in the last 52 weeks.
with the worker’s functional abilities and that, when possible, restores his or her pre-injury earnings:
(c)	giving the Board such information as the Board may request concerning the worker’s return to work: and
(d)	doing such other things as may be prescribed.
11,	NOTICE OF DISPUTE?
Section 40 (6)... The employer or the worker shall notify the Board of any difficulty or dispute concerning their co-operation with each other in the worker’s early and safe return to work.
12.	OBLIGATION TO RE-EMPLOY?
Section 41 (1)... The employer of aworker who has been unable to work as a resultof an injury and who, on the date of the injury, had been employed continuously for at least one year by the employer shall offer to re-employ the worker in accordance with this section.
Section 41 (4) When the worker is medically able to perform the essential duties of his or her pre-injury employment, the employer shall:
(a)	offer to re-emplpy the worker in the position that the worker held on the date of injury, or
(b)	offer to provide the worker with alternative employment of a nature and at earnings comparable to the worker’s employment on the date of injury
TIME LIMITS
1	A 30 day time limit on appealing a Board decision about return to work or a labour market re-entry plan made on or after January 1, 1998.
2	A six month time limit on appealing any other Board decision made on or after January 1,1998.
3	A six month time limit on filing a claim.
The changes to the new act are significant and have reduced or limited entitlement for injured workers. However, you should never let managementtalk you out of filing a claim, it is your right, in fact it is a violation for an employer to refuse to submit a claim.
Your local union has a benefit department that will answer any questions you may have in regard to filing or appealing a W.S.I.B. claim. Contact your union office.
ARTICLE
I	Recognition.....................................................2
II	Relationship ...................................................2
III	Management Rights...............................................2
IV	Plant Committee ................................................4
V	Grievance Procedure.............................................5
VI	Arbitration ....................................................6
VII	Management Grievances...........................................7
VIII	Discharge Cases and Disciplinary Records........................7
IX	No Strikes - No Lockouts .......................................8
X	Wages ..........................................................8
XI	Shift Premiums .................................................9
XII	Hours of Work and Overtime......................................9
XIII	Vacations with Pay ............................................10
XIV	Plant Holiday .................................................12
XV	Seniority..................................................... 13
XVI	Bulletin Boards................................................19
XVII	Safety and Health .............................................19
XVIII	Leave of Absence ..............................................20
XIX	Rest Periods...................................................21
XX	Reporting Allowance and Cali In Pay ...........................21
XXI	Bereavement Pay ...............................................21
XXII	Sick and Welfare Plans.........................................22
XXIII	Pension Plan...................................................24
XXIV	General........................................................24
XXV	Union Security.................................................25
XXVI	Termination....................................................25
Skill Trades and Wages.........................................28
Maintenance Apprentices........................................32
Letters of Agreement...........................................34
ARTICLE 1 -RECOGNITION	
1.01	The Company recognizesthe Union as the soie collective bargaining agent of all employeesof the Company at the City of Brampton, Ontario, save and exceptforemen, persons above the rank of foreman, office and sales staff, persons regularly employedfor not more than twenty-four (24) hours pei week and students employedduringthe school vacation period.
ARTICLE2 -RELATIONSHIP	
2.01	The parties hereto mutually agree that any present employee of the company covered by this Agreement may become a memberof the Union if he wishes to do so. and may refrain from becominga member of the Union if he so desires. New employeeswho have completed their probationary period will be requiredto join the Union as a condition of employment.
2.02	The Company and the Union agree that there will be no intimidation, discrimination,interference,restraint or coercion exercised or practised by either of them or by any of their representativesor members because of an employee's membershipor non-membershipin the Union or because of his activity of lack of activity in the Union.
2.03	It is agreed that the Union and the employeeswill not engage in Union activities, except as provided in this Agreement. during working hours or hold meetingsat any time on the premises of the Company without the permissionof the Plant Superintendent
ARTICI F3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	
3.01	The Union recognizesand acknowledges that the managementof the plant and direction of the working force are fixed exclusively in the Company and, without restrictingthe generalityof the foregoing, the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to'
	(a) maintain order and efficiency;
	(b) hire, promote, demote, classify, transfer, suspendand rehire employees, and to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause providedthat a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has beendischargedor disciplinedwithoutjust cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealtwith as hereinafter provided;
	(c) make, enforce and alter, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulationsto be observed by the employees, provided that when new
	-3L"
rules are enacted, a copy shall be givento the committeeand an opportunity given to them to make representations;
(d) determine the nature and kind of business conducted by the company, the kinds of locationsof plants, equipmentand materialsto be used, the control of materialsand parts. the methods and techniques of work, the content of jobs. the schedulesof production.the number of employees to be employed. the extension, limitations, curtailment or cessation of operations or any part thereof, and to determine and exercise all other functions and prerogativeswhich shall remain solely with the Company except as specificallylimited by the express provisionsof this Agreement.
3.02	Without limitingthe generalityof the foregoing provisions, it is expressly understoodand agreedthat breachofany of the Plant Rules, or of any of the provisionsof this Agreement, shall be deemed to be sufficient cause for discipline or dismissalof an employee; providedthat nothing herein shall prevent an employee going through the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE 4 -PLANT COMMITTEE
4.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise selecta plant committee which shall be composed of not more than nine (9) stewards, four (4)from the day shift, three (3)fromthe second shift, one (1) from the third shift and one (1) Chief Steward. All stewards shall have senioritywith the Company, and shall be regularemployeesof the Company during their time of office. The name and area of each of the stewards and the name of the Chairman of the Plant Committee, from time i> time so selected, shall be givento the Company in writing and the Company shall not be required to recognizeany such steward or chairman until it has been
so notified.
4.02	The parties mutually agree thatthere shall be a Employee/Employer RelationsCommittee composed of no less than two (2) representatives of the Employerand two (2) representativesof the Union, who shall meet once monthly for the purposes of consultationand communicationof information on matters of mutual concern relating to day-to day working problems.
4.03	The Company undertakesto instr id ail members of its supervisory staff to co-operatewith the stewards in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this Agreement.
4.04	The Union undertakes to secure from its officers, stewards and members, their co-operationwith the company and with all persons representingthe Company in a supervisory capacity
The privilegesof stewardsto leave their work without loss of basic pay to attend to Union business is granted on the following conditions:
4.05
(a)	such business must be between the Union and the Management. Employees havinggrievancescannotdiscuss these with the stewards in working hours, except in the case of a dischargedor suspended employeeto whom a steward shall be immediatelyavailable provided a steward is in the plant;
(t>) The time shall be devoted to the prompt handlingof necessary Union business;
The steward concernedshall obtainthe permissionof the foreman concerned before leaving his work. Such permissionshall not be unreasonably withheld;
(d)	The time away from productive work shall be reported in accordance with the time-keeping methodsof the department in which the steward is employed;
(e)	The Company reservesthe right to limit such time if it deems the time so taken to be excessive.
4.06	The Companywill provide appropriatelockeror filing space for the Chief Stewardto retain necessary union papers and material.
4.07	(a) Inthe eventan employee is to be suspendedorterminatedwhile at
work he shall be entitled to the presence cf the shift steward at the time of the suspensionor termination
(b)	Inthe eventan employee is suspendedor dischargedwhile at work he shall be given an opportunityto inten/iew his steward inthe private for fifteen (15) minutes priorto leavingthe plantexceptwhere the suspensionor discharge is the result of a violent incident.
(C) The Companywill provide written reasons for the disciplinary suspensionor discharge of an employee who has completed his probation period within two (2) working days of the discipline.
4.08	The Company recognizesthe right of the Unionto appointor selecta negotiatingcommittee comprising of four (4) employees and will recognize and deal with such committee with respect to negotiatingthe renewal or modificationof this agreement at the proper time.
' TheCompanyfurtheragreesto pay each memberofthe negotiating committeefour (4) hours for each day spent in negotiations.
ARTICLE 5 -GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5 01 The parties to this Agreement are agreed that it is of the utmost importance to adji t (n plaii it 1 gri < rices :c ncerning tt e interpretation or alleged violation of the Agreement as quicklj at >ibli
5 02 No grievance shall be considered where the circumstances giving rise t< it occurred or originated more than five (5) full working days before the filing ol the grievance.
5 03 Grievances properly arising under this Agreement shall oe adjusted and settled as foil'
Tl 'JO. 1: The aggrieved employee shall present his grievance orally r in iting >Ms foreman He shall have the assistance of his J if h so 3 >i s The foreman shall give his decision within three (3) working days following the presentation of the grievance to him. If the foreman's decision is not satisfactory to heemplc d, th tt ri« may b nte I i follows:
STEF NO 2: Within three (3) working days after the decision is giv sn il St >| No 1, thi £ gg ie\ 31 3 iployee may, with or without his steward, present the grievance ( hi:h il all 3 d H \ iting on a form supplied >y the Union and approved by the Comp ly) tc the t Manager, who shall consider it in the presence of the person or p r m pi 3 nti	same anlth fc nr i, id i Mi d< ;i i
writing within thn (3) working days >llc wing the presi t; ii n ■ the grievance to him If i settlement sa sfai tory to tl e err c 3 concerned is not reached, then the grievance may be presented as follows:
is given nee tc
E NO 3: Within three (3) working days after the v un le Step Nc 2 the aggrieved employee n s his the C IM nager and the employee, c< \\\i Dythe Chairman of the Plant Committee and his steward, shall meet as promptly as possible with th Gi IM ige and slcH other person(s) as Management may desire, to consider the grievance. At this stage they may be accompanied by a full-time representative of the Union if his presence is requested by si h p ty Th G< I Manager will re'der his decision in writing within three (3) working days f< illl 'i; it til l(
If final settlement of the grievance is not reached at Step No. i, i if th< grievance is one which concerns t le interpretation or alleged violation of the A	t th n th	i rr je referr d i tir g t y either party to a
B	of Arbiti tic as	di tid< VII »l< at yti r itl in t (10)
working days after the decision is given under Step No.3, and if no such written requestfor arbitration is received within the time limited, then it shall be deemed to have been abandoned.
5.05	Work loadgrievancesand grievances not processedwithinthe time limit set forth or not signed by an employee may be considered in the Grievance Procedure but in no eventwill besubjectto arbitration
5.06	A Union policy grievance which is defined as an alleged violation of this Agreement concerningall or a number of the employees in the bargaining unitor in regardto which a numberof employees have signified an intention to grieve, may be broughtforward by the Union GrievanceCommitlee, in writing at Step No. 1 of the Grievance Procedure at any time within five (5) full working days after the circumstancesgiving rise to such policy grievance occurredand if it is not settled at this stage, it may go to Step No. 2 of the Grievance Procedureand ultimately to a Board of Arbitration in the same manner as a grievance of an employee.
ARTICLE6. ARBITRATION
6.01	Both partiesto this agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerningthe interpretationof alleged violation of this agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the Grievance Procedure outlined in Article 6 above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to a Board of Arbitration, at the written request of either of the parties hereto
6.02	The Board of Arbitrationwill be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one person appointed by the Union and a third person to act as Chairman chosen by the other two members of the Board.
6.03	Withinfive (5) working days of the request by either party for a Board, each party shall notify the other in writing of the name of its appointee.
6.04	Should the person chosen by the company to acton the board, and the person chosen by the Union, fail to agree on a third person within seven (7) days of the notification mentioned in 6 03 above, the Ministerof Labour of the Provinceof Ontario will be asked to nominateda person to act as Chairman.
6.05	The decision of the Board of Arbitration, or a majoritythereof, constituted in the above manner shall be binding on both parties.
6.06	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any powerto alter or change any of the provisionsof this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistentwith the terms and
provisionsof this Agreement
6.07	Each of the partiesto this Agreementwill bearthe expenses of the Arbitrator appointed by it; and the parties wil I jointly bearthe expenses, if any. of the chairman.
ARTICLE 7 - MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCES
7.01	Any grievance instituted by management may be referred in writing lo the Plant Committeewithin five (5) full working days of the occurrence of the circumstances giving rise to the grievance, and the Plant Committee shall meet within three (3) working days thereafter with management to consider the grievance,togetherwith a full-time representativeof the Union if his presence is requested by either party. If final settlement of the grievance is not completed within three (3) working days of such meeting, the grievance may be referred by either party, to a Board of Arbitration as provided in Article 6 at any time within ten (10) working days thereafter, but not later.
ARTICLE 8 ♦ DISCHARGE CASES AND DISCIPLINARY RECORDS
8.01	A claim by an employee, who has completedthe probationary period, that he has beendischargedor suspendedfor more than three (3) days withoutjust cause shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodgedwiththe PlantManageratStepNo.2 of the Grievance Procedurewithin three (3) working days after the employee ceases working for the company. Such special grievances may be settled by:
(a)	confirming the Managements action in dismissingthe employee; or
(b)	reinstatingthe employeewith full compensationfor time lost; or
(c)	any other arrangementwhich is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties or the Board of Arbitration.
It is agreed and understoodthat suspensions for three (3) days or less shall be processed in accordance with the provisionsof Article 5 of this Agreement.
8.02	After discipline has been imposed, in the event an employee does not repeat any further misdemeanourof a similar nature forwhichthe discipline was imposedfor a continuous period of nine (9) months thereafter. then that original disciplinewhich was imposed nine (9) months earlier will be destroyed
7
ARTICLE9 ■ NO STRIKES-NO LOCKOUTS
9.01	In view of the orderly proceduresestablished by this Agreementfor the settling of disputes and the handling of grievancesthe Union agrees that, during the life of this Agreement, there will be no strike, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial and the Company agrees that therewill be no lockout
9.02	The Company shall have the right to discharge or otherwise discipline employees who take part in or instigate any strike, picketing,stoppage or slowdown, but a claim of unjust discharge or discipline may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in Article 5 above.
9.03	Should the Union claim that a cessationof work constitutesa lockout.it may take the matter up with the Company at Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure
9.04	The Union agrees that it will not involve any employee of the Company or the Company either directly or indirectly in any dispute which may arise between any other employerand the employeesof such other employer. The Company will not require an employee to cross a legal picket line I o deliver productto the struck premises
ARTICLE 1Q -WAGES
10.01	Schedule "A" hereto headed Skill grades and Wages is hereby made a part of this Agreement.
10.02	New Operations
When a new operation constitutinga new job which is covered by the terms of this Agreement is establishedby the Company, the Company shall determine the skill grade level for such new operation and notify the Union of the same
if the Union challengesthe skill grade level, it shall have the right to request a meetingwith the companyto negotiate the appropriateskill grade level.
Such requestshall be made inwritingwithinten (10) woiking days after receipt of notice from the Company of such new operation and grade level.
if notice requesting a meeting is not receivedwithinten (10) working days of the date of the notice from the Company, the skill grade level in the Company's notificationfor the operationwill be the agreed level for the operation.
e
If the parties are unable to agree, the dispute concerning the new grade !e al
may be submitted to arbitration as provided in this Agreement if submitted rithi fifti (15) i ys of tt eeting
The decision of the Board shall ne c(r nedto lishint the; >i skill grade level for the operation within the scheme of the skill grades in the schedules to this Collective l	t ti ki ii it int i
and practical comparisons therein.
ate
2t 01 iabl<
ARTICLE 11 - SHIFT PREMIUMS
11.01	fa) Effective June 1, 1992, a shift premiumof forty (40) cents per hour shall be paid Fcr all standard hoursworkedon a regular afternoon (second) shift and sixty (60) cents per hour for all standard hours worked on a regular night (third) shift
(b)	To qualifyfor a full shift premiumon the afternoon (second) shift or night (third) shift, an employeemust work fifty (50%) percent or more of his standard eights (8) hours on his respectiveshift
(c)	For the purposes only of applicationof the fifty percent rule in Article 11
(b):
(I) hours worked between 3:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. are afternoon or second shift hours; and
(ii) hoursworked betweenl 1:30 p.m. and7:30a.m. are night or third shift hours.
ARTICLE 12 -HOURS CF WORK AND OVERTIME
12.01
The following iraphs and sections are intended to define the normal s of work and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, or fdi 'f ri per k
12 02
(a)
standard work week shall consist of forty (40) hours per week, compri! >ffi' [5) eight (8) I d
(b)	The Company agrees that if a change in start times is required the employee: iffe ct i ill reci ii h nh fi [2 01 itit ri< to the chan$
srtimeattl rate ) tl I If if ) <gili hourly rate shall be paid for all hours worked on Saturday and in excess of
9
forty (40) hours perweek or eight(8) hours per day and double the employee's regular hourly rateforall hours worked on Sundays.
(b)	Overtimeatthe rate of double the employee's regular hourly rate shall be paid for all hoursworkedby the employee in excess of twelve (12) consecutivehours on a shift.
(c)	For the purposes of applicationof overtime rates for employees regularlyworking the night shift (third shift):
(j)	Saturdaywill be consideredto commenceat that time on
Saturdaywhen the regular Friday night shift has ended.
(jj) Sunday will be consideredto commence twenty-four hours after the commencement of Saturday under (i) above and will run for a further period of twenty-four hours from that time.
12.04	Overtime premiumsshall not be paid more than once for any hour worked, and there shall be no pyramidingof overtime.
12.05	The Company will continue to provide an unpaid one-half (112) hour meal break approximately half-way through each shift.
ARTICLE 13-VACATIONS WITH PAY
13.01	All employeeswho have acquired one (1) year's senioritywith the Company priorto May 1st in any year shall receiveto (2) weeks' vacation with pay at a time convenientto the Company and shall receive as vacation pay four (4%) percentof such employee's earningsfortime actuallyworkedforthe Company during the twelve months immediately preceding May 1st in that year.
13.02	Ail employeeswho have acquiredfive (5) years' senioritywith the Company priorto May 1st in any year (or within 60 days of May 1st in any year) shall receive three (3) weeks' vacation with pay at a time convenient to the Company and shall receive as vacation pay six (6%) percent of such employee's earningsfortime actually workedforthe Company during the twelve months immediately preceding May 1st in that year.
13.03	(a) All employeeswho have acquired ten (10) years' senioritywith the
Company priorto May 1st in any year (or within 60 days of May 1st in any year) shall receive four (4) weeks' vacationwith pay at a time or times convenientto the Company and shall receive as vacation pay eight (8%) percent of such employee's earningsfor time actually
10
workedforthe Company during the twelve months immediately preceding Maylst in that year
13.04	All employeeswho have acquired nineteen(19) years' seniority with the Company priorto May 1st in any year (orwithin sixty (60) days of May 1st in any year) shall receive five (5) weeks' vacation with pay at a time or times convenientto the company and shall receive as vacation pay ten (10%) percentof such employee's earnings for time actually worked for the company during the twelve months immediatelypreceding May 1st in that year.
13.05	An employeewho has ceasedto be employed by the Company, otherthan being dischargedfor cause, before receiving his vacation pursuant to the provisionsof this Article shall be entitled to receive vacation pay in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement
Employees shall receive an estimatedamount of vacation pay at the time of taking vacation in proportionto the timetaken.
The balance of vacation pay shall be paid by October 31st.
13.05	Where a plant holidayfalls within an employee's annualvacation, the employee may elect to take an additional day's vacationor receive payment for the day in lieu.
ifthe employee elects to take an additionalday's vacation, he shall notify his supervisor in writing prior to going on vacation. Such day shall be scheduled at a mutuallyagreeable time.
if an employee fails to notify his supervisor. he shall be paid for such plant holidaywhich occurs during the vacation period.
During those months other than June to September, an employee may elect to have the additional day's vacation added to his vacation period providing he requeststhis in writing within a reasonabletime prior to going on vacation. (The "additionalday" representsthe plant holidaywhich fails within an employee's vacation.)
13,07	Employeesshould signify their vacationtime preferencesinwritingtothe Plant Supervisor by the 1st day of April each year.
Subject to the efficientoperationof the plant, vacationswill be considered on the basis of seniority.
The final vacation schedule will be pasted on the bulletin board by May 15th.
13.05	Employeeswho have signified pursuantto Article 13.07 a vacation time preferenceduring the months June to Septemberwill be grantedtwo (2)
-li-
eksvi or during prime e cation months or June to September lusive In recognition, however, ofthe factths the Company's isiest I iductii	n fi II: within ti it same f i d, such «	for h
employees will be limited so that no more than te n (10%) percent ofthe employees within a department will be off for the same or an overlapping period of time except as may be designated by the Company in its discretion.
ject to the foregoing ten (10%) percent rule set out earlier, more senior )loy ho Jir <t< d< 1 tri /ill I it d ft to the int four (4)	ii
13.09	N i lployeewhois edtots e >i weeks or more vacation ti iff during the vacation year shall take less than two (2) weeks vacation time off lg that vacation y 3ar, May 1 st to April 30th; 10 employee who is enti to k( les! than two (2) weeks time off during a vacation year shall take less thantlewMk hi iti time off during that vacation year, May 1 to April 30th.
13.10	Thetw s gs as d ii this Artcle 13 for the purposes of vacation pay calculations shall have the same meaning as the term "wages" used for the same purposes in the Employment Standards Act of Ontario but shall il! i :lt di n ti< | iy previously received during the prior tie year i nd those O.H.I.F. | remiums paid by the employer during the >revioi y acation year which are taxable as a benefit in the employee' hands
ARTICLE 14-PLANT HOLIDAY
14.01	(a) The following plant holidays, regardlessof when they fall, will be
grantedwith pay to all employeeswho have completedtheir probationary period:
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday One-half day before New Year's Day
(a) Payment for such holidays shall be based on the employee's regular hourly rate multiplied by the number of hours he would normally have worked on such day. Each of the holidayswill be observed Monday through Friday.
Labour Day Fixed Floater Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day One half day before Christmas Day
12
(b)	Fixed floater shall betaken between December 20th and January 5th. Article 14.02 will not apply to fixed Floater Holiday.
Inorder to be entitled to payment for a plant holiday, an employee must have worked the full working day immediatelyprecedingthe holiday and the full working day immediatelyfollowing the holiday unless absent with permission of Managementor for reasons beyond his control.
If an employeeworks on one of the above-named plant holidays, he shall receive paymentat time and one-half for the hours actually worked by him in additionto receivinghis holiday pay.
14,04	The Company agrees to pay employees collecting Indemnity Insuranceor Compensation Benefits,the difference between such payments and regular holiday pay.
14.02
14.03
ARTICLE 15-SENIORITY
15.01	(a) Seniority,as referredto in this Agreement, shall mean lengthof
continuous service in the employ of the Company and shall be on a departmental and plant-wide basis.
(b) For purposes of clarification and purposes of application of seniority, the following departmentsshall prevail:
A)	Raw Boning (including Emulsionand Injection)
B)	Portioning, Shaping and FingerCutting
C)	Shipping(includingTruck Driver)
D)	Receiving
E)	Breaded Lines (including Mixers)
F)	Clean Up (Sanitationand Janitorial)
G)	Maintenance
H)	Meatpreparation(Cooler, Massage Room, and Hydraflaker)
When applying seniority, drivers will completing their day's run Jh i
n!y be laid off or sent nome after returned to the plant.
15.01(c)(i) When layoff of more then one (1) I our but less then one (1) full shift
......... '	...	nlnwoo in the Qkili
When layoff of more then one (1) I our but U occurs within skill grades ! or!! the most jun grad il «■ layoff cocars will be laid off. The employes !a!d off ma) elect :o gc home or bump the most junior employee in the other skill grade who has less seniority if he has the ski!! and ih« ability to perl) th ji 1
13
Incase bumping affects raw boning (which falls within skill Grade II) or portioning of meat (sill Grade I), the employee bumping must have passed the necessary skill test application to either raw-boning or portioning of meat as the case may be within the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the layoff.
15.01(c)(ii) When layoffs of one (1) day or more occur, plant wide seniority shall prevail, providing those retained can perform the required work satisfactorily.
15.01	(c)(iii) When layoffs of less than one full day occur, in grades 3 to 10
department seniority shall prevail, providing those retained can perform the required work satisfactorily. Wh sn less than one hour's work rem. ii i: ii a department, the Company will not be required to apply seniority.
(d)	An employee with plant seniority who desires transfer to another
department or job may submit a written application t th superintendent. I later a vacancy occurs in that department those with application on file shall be given consideration in order of seniority, pi) -i Ii i ti ?y possess the necessary qualifications, an if Ii y 3 being transferred shall be given a r« oi able amount of time to prove theii ability. This clause only applies to employees who have attained seniority, t it hich l less than six (6)	> iti
15.02	A nf loyee will be considered o f robation for the first forty (40) working days, including statutory holidays as provided, and will have no s 5 ik ity rights during that period. After forty (40) working days' service, his seniority shall date back to the day on which his employment b g i. The dismissal, lay-off or failure to recall after lay-off of a probationary employee shall not be the subject of a grievance.
15.03	Seniority lists will be revised each four (4) months; a py of the list will be
p d ir t pit 1 a copy sent to the Union office. If an employee does not challenge the position of his name on the seniority list within the first five (5) working days from the date his n; r first appears on a seniority list, provided he is at work when the list is posted, then he shall be deemed to have proper seniority standing. In the event the employee is not at work he must object c I is s nic rity standing vithin five (5) working days from the date he returns k rk
15.04	(j) Layoffs shall be based upon the following factors.
(a)	seniority: and (bj skill and efficiency
14
15.05
15.06
Where the qualificationsin factor (b) are relatively equal, seniority shall
govern
Bumping may occur in only the following circumstances: an employee who has completed the probationary period and who is faced with the loss of his normal job as a result of the permanent elimination of the operation he normally performs, may. where skill and efficiency are relatively equal displace the most junior employee in an equal rate skill grade if available, or, if not available, then in the next lower skill grade level.
(ii) As agreed between the Union and the Company on February 27,
I986, when layoffs occur, employees hired on the same day in the same year will be laid off in alphabetical order: surname will be taken into consideration.
Seniority shall accumulate in the following circumstances only.
(a)	when off the payroll due to lay-off, sickness, or accident in which case seniority will continue to accumulate for a period of time equal to one year or the length of the employee's seniority whichever is the shorter:
(b)	when off the payroll due to personal leave of absence, then seniority will continue to accumulate for the first three months of such leave,
(C) when absent on vacation or on plant holidays;
(d) when actually at work for the Company
Seniority shall terminate and an employee shall cease to be employed by the Company when he:
(a) voluntarily quits his employment with the Company;
(b)	is discharged and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure or arbitration;
(c)	is off the payroll for a continuous period of twelve months, provided that in the event an employee is receiving Workers' Compensation payments such period shall be a continuous period of twenty-four months:
(d)	fails to report for work within two
^working days after being notified by the Company following a layoff, unless absent for a reason satisfactory to the Company;
15
15.07
15.08
15.09
15.10
(e)	fails to returnto work uponthe termination of an authorized leave of absence unless a reason acceptableto the Company is given: and
accepts gainful employmentwhite on a leave of absence without first obtainingthe consent of the company in writing.
in the event that an employee covered by this Agreement should be promotedto a supervisoryor confidentialposition beyond the scope of this agreement,and is later placed in a positionwithinthe scope of this Agreement, he shall retain the seniority previously acquired and shall have added thereto the seniority accumulatedwhile serving in such supervisory or confidential capacity upto a maximum of six (6) months.
It shall be the duty of each employee to notify the Company promptly of any change in address. If an employee fails to do this, the Company will not be responsiblefor failure of a notice to reach such employee.
(a) Any employee's reinstatementaftersick leavewill be conditional on his supplying, when requested.a certificatefrom a physician that he is fully recoveredfrom the sickness which caused his absence. The said employee on return to work will be returned to his regular job at the appropriate rate, provided he is able to do the requiredwork satisfactorily.
(5) The Company shall bear the costs should it require an employee to be examined by a physiciandesignatedbythe Company, such costs to includethe costs of the examination, tests, and reports made by the physicianto the Company. (The Company's obligations regarding costs does not extend to the annual physical by the Departmentof Healthfor all employees).
Overtime on Saturdays. Sundays or Holidays
(a)	When the Company decides that overtimework is necessary throughoutthe period of Monday to Friday inclusive, it will be assigned to employees on the same shift who are performingthe work required, providedthey are ready and available for such work
(b)	For Skill Grades I and II, when Saturday, Sunday or holiday Overtime work is required, where skill and ability to perform the available work are relatively equal, it will be assigned to more senior employees in the plantwho normallywork on the shift the work is to be performed.
Providedthat in the case of availableovertimework involves raw-boning (whichfalls within Skill Grade II) or portioningof meat (Skill Grade I), in order to be qualifiedfor the overtimework the employee must have also passed
-16-
the necessary skilltest applicationto either raw-boning or portioning of meat as the case may be within the twelve month period immediatelypreceding the overtime assignment.
Exceptin cases of emergency, the Company agrees io schedules day shift before schedulingan afternoon shift.
{c) In all other Skill Grades, available overtime work on Saturday, Sunday or he ids y /ill b .signed to nior r ploye 3J 'ho mall perform the work on the shift available.
(d) These provisions do not apply to employees Grades.
iifii in iif t
(e)
Any employee who i: >fl i 1ii * ni r d refuses all t deemed to have waived or abandoned his entitlement to overtime.
(f)	Where an pky works ertii on Si iy, Sunday or a holiday at an operation having a skill grade level and rate lower than his regular skill grade level and rate, the lower skill grade level and rs .hall ily fo tl il rk notwithstanding any other provisions of the Collectve Agreement is no rate maintenance in this situation).
(a)	The n ary' for the | rp if this	i(	is bed< as
an opening in the departmental seniority li	t	th nt	of
persons ret ui ed >y ti le C >n pany exceeds the number employed therein due to an employee's transfer, death, retirement, termination if plcy t, or an opening of a new department i tl i t'n
of which Is expected to exceed fifty (50) working days. The \ a will be posted for three (3) working days throughout the factory Applicatii fc t ifi ti s | c ted ac u y r \) I i dc ir v riti by employees throughout the factor who have more the n i\) (6) months seniority. Only applications received in writing within five (5) kit g i lys fre the date of the posting will be entertained; and the company will announce the results of the postings within ten (10) working days of the date the original posting was made.
(b)	In me king a transfer, seniority will go ern «vh skill, rit it ili
a comparatively equal, it being understood that the Company will not be obligated to select an application if the applicant is not able to meet the normal requirements of the job. Nothing herein itinu 1 will prevent the Company from filling such vacancy with s idid
17
from outside the bargaining unit if non of the applicants from within the unit possess the necessary skill. merit and ability.
(c)	Thejob vacated by an employee transferred underthese provisions will be posted but any subsequent vacancy resulting therein, will not be subject to posting.
(d)	An employee who is successful on a posted vacancy may not apply for another posted vacancy for a period of twelve (12) months unless otherwise agreed between the Company and the employee.
(e)	An employee who fails to fill the requirements of a posted vacancy, at the option of the company, will be transferred back to the department he worked in immediately proceeding the transfer if he would have continued to work in that department except for his selection to the posted vacancy, or to some other department. Such employee may not apply for another posted vacancy for a period of six (6) months.
(f)	In the case of arbitration, not more than one employee may claim an improper selection for the same posted vacancy.
(g)	The changes made in Articles 15 10 and 15.11 (d) are to become effective in the next week following the date of ratification of this Agreement.
15.12	Where a job which requires forklift or power walker qualification is posted the Company agrees, to indicate on the posting that forklift and powerwalker training will be provided. The Company further agrees to provide the forklift and/or powerwalker training to the senior employee awarded the job
The Company agrees to train employees to the forklift or powerwalker due to a job posting only.
15.13	Transfers
(a)	An employee who is temporarily transferred for a continuous period of one (1) hour or more during a shift to an operation in a Skill Grade which has a higher rate of pay than his regular Skill Grade will receive the equivalent rate of pay in the higher grade for all continuous hours worked in the shift at the higher Skill Grade
(b)	An employee who is temporarily transferred for a continuous period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less to an operation in a Skill Grade which has a lower rate of pay than his regular Skill Grade shall continue to receive his regular rate up to the end of that thirty day period while working in that lower Skill Grade
•18-
(c)	In the case of transfers of a permanent nature to a lower Skill Grade,
an employeewilf receive the appropriate rate of pay for that lower Skill Grade to which he has transferred.
ARTICLE16 • BULLETIN BOARDS
16.01	The Company agrees that the Union shall have the use of a notice board for the posting of Union notices. All such notices prior to posting must have the approvalof management.
ARTICLE17 • SAFETY AND HEALTH
17.01(a) The Company shall make provisionsfor safety and health of employees
during the hours of their employment, protectivedevices on machineryand otherdevices which the Company deems necessary to properly protect employees from injury, shall be providedto the Company. The Company agrees to provide an adequately equipped first-aid room where employees may receive properfirst-aid. Such facilitiesto be located in an area in the plant where it is easily accessibleto all employees. The Company will provide a person holding a current first-aid diploma to assist employees requiringfirst-aid and to keep the room adequately equipped.
(b)	Safety Boots
Effectivethe date of ratificationthe Company agrees to provide an allowance of one hundreddollars ($100.00) per year for the purchaseof safety boots, upon presentationof a receipt. Maintenance,Shipping. Receiving, Lead Hands in Meat Preparation, Boning Line supply and finished goods removal from the Breading Linewill beentitledto purchase two pairs of safety boots peryearif necessary. The Company will continue to supply rubber boots for those employees who prefer rubber boots
(c)	The Company will providea suitable two piece suit for the men working regularly in the freezers. The Company further agrees to provide the SanitationCrew with a rainsuit. The type of rainsuit is to be selected by the Safety Committee,
17.02	There shall be a Safety Committee comprising of up to four (4)
representativesappointedby Management and four (4) representatives appointed by Managementandfour(4) representatives^ leastoneto be selected from each shift) appointed by the Union
The Safety Committee shall meet monthly providedthat the committee itself may unanimously waive the meetingfor any given month provided that no
19
more Than two (2) consecutive monthly meetingsmay be waived, Minutes shall be kept of each meeting.
The parties agree that a schedule setting out the monlhly dates for meetings of the Health and Safety Committeewill be established annually in advance.
17.03	The Company will instructits supervisorsto rotatejobs within the same job
'	classificationand departmentwhich are usually tiresomedue to exceptional
conditions or circumstances
17.04	Technologicalchange
In the event that the company introducestechnologicalchange in the form of new equipment, the parties agree that the following will occur.
(i)	Sixty days priorto production use of the new equipment, the company will notify the chief steward and provide him or herwith a descriptionand impact on the employeesof the equipmentto be introduced.
(ii)	After the chief steward is notified the Company agrees, if requested io do so by the Union, to meetwith a committee of two representativesof the Union to discussthe impact of the technologicalchange.
(iii)	Any employees laid off as a resultof technologicalchange still have access to Article 15.04 (i) ofthe CollectiveAgreement.
(iv)	Where an employee has been laid off due to technologicalchange, no new employee will be hired untilthejob has been posted,the employee on lay off has been notified (by mail to his last known address) and given an opportunity to bid for such position underthe terms and conditions of the CollectiveAgreement.
ARTICLE 18 -LEAVEOFABSENCE
(a) The Company may grant leave of absence up to four (4) weeks if an
employee requests it in writing from the Managementand if the leave IS for good reasonand does not unreasonably interferewith the efficientoperation ofthe plant. The Companywill replyto such requestinwritingwithinfive (5) working days of the date of receipt of the request or sooner if possible.
in emergency situations(ie. death in an employee's family) the Companywill respond promptly and in such cases both the requestand the response may be verbal.
20
( The company will grant leave of absence without pay to not more than two (2) employees to attend Union conventions and conferences for a period or F e i is i ot di ig in the aggregate fourteen (14) days f ny< i employee in any one calendar year, provided that this shad not interfere with the efficient tion of the plant
ARTICLE 19 • REST PERIODS
19.01	Employees shall be entitled to two (2) rest periodsof ten (10) minuteseach per eight (8) hour shift and in the event of employees being requested to work overtime, they shall be given a ten (10) minute rest period for each two (2) hours of overtimeworked prior to commencing the required overtime.
19.02	The Company will instructsupen/isorsiotake info consideration congestion and apron removal in regards to the length of time employeestakefor rest period, providedthat employeesmake an effortto keepwithin the allotted ten minute periods.
ARTICLE 2Q - REPORTING ALLOWANCE AND CALL IN PAY
20.01	Employees reportingfor work as usual on a regularworking day or
scheduledwork as requested, unless notified by the previous day not to report, and for whom no work at his regularjob is available, shall immediately be offered at leastfour (4) hours' employment in other work at the employee's regular straighttime rate of wages or pay for the time worked, whichever is greater. This provision shall not apply if the failure to receive notice was caused by the employee's absence on the previous day or if the failure to providework is due to causes beyond the Company's control.
ARTICLE21 .BEREAVEMENT PAY
21.01	Inthe event ofthe death of a memberof an employees'family, the employee
will be granted a leave of absence for a reasonabletime and will be reimbursedfortime necessarily lostfrom work up to a maximum of three (3) days. This allowancewill only be made where the circumstances require the employee's absence from work, the term "memberof an employee's family" means a husband, wife, child, or parent, brother, sister, mother-in-law, or father-in-law. A one (1) day leave of absencewill be granted in the event of the death of an employeesgrandparent,grandchild, brother or sister in-law.
21
21.02	If an employee is unableto attend the funeral of a member of his "family", he is not requiredto work on the day of the funeral and he shall receive eight (8) hours pay for that day, if lost time is involved.
21.03	The Company may require that satisfactory evidenceof bereavementbe furnished by an employee in the event of a claim underthis Article XXI.
ARTICLE 22 -SICK AND WELFARE PLANS
During the lifetimeof this Agreement, the Company will contributeone hundred (100%) percent of the billed premiumsof O.H.I.P. with respectto all employeeswho have attained seniority on a single basis or a family basis, whichever is applicable providedthat any female employee is not covered by her spouse under the appropriate regulationsof O.H.I.P
The Company will pay one hundred (100%) percent of the billed premiumsof the Weekly Indemnity and Life InsurancePolicy on behalf of employeeswho have attained seniority, and are eligible in accordance with the terms of the said Policy, which Policy shall providethe following benefits:
(j) The Weekly Indemnity Plan shall be amended following ratification of this Agreement for employeeswho thereafter commence a new absencefrom work in circumstanceswhere they qualify for Weekly Indemnity Benefits.
The Weekly IndemnityPlanwill providea maximumcoverage of twenty-six (26) weeks and shall continueto providea weekly indemnityallowanceequivalents sixty-sixand two-thirds (66 2/3%) hundred ($200) dollars, the maximumwill be increasedto matchthe Unemployment InsuranceCommissionPlan.
The Plan shall operate on the first day of accident, the first day of hospitalization and the fourth (4th) day of illness, providedthe employee sees the doctor within a three day period of absence. The Plan will also be amended to incorporate the following principles:
(a)	The "weekly earnings"of an employee for the purposesof calculation of a
week of indemnityallowancewill be the averageweekly earnings of the employee in the twenty (20) weeks immediately precedingthe date the paid disability begins, providedthat. there will be excluded from the twenty (20) weeks those weeks for which the employees:
1.	was receivingWCB benefits;
2.	was receivingweekly indemnity	benefits:
•	3. was on vacation leave;
4.	was laid off.
22.01(a)
(b)
22
(b) Successive periods of disability shall be consideredas one period of
disabifity, unless the employee returns to work and completes at least four
(4) complete consecutive weeks of active and full time service before commencement of the later disability or unless the later disability is due to causes wholly different from those of the prior disability and commences after the employee has returned to work
(Therefore: 1) the waiting period will not be required again; and 2) only the unused balance of the twenty - six (26) weeks of benefits will be available to the employee.)
(jj) Effective on ratification of this Agreement, $25,000 LIFE INSURANCE coverage for all eligible employees and the plan to continue to provide the Double Indemnity Effective June 1, 1990 the above noted amount will be amended to read $30,000
Cheques are mailed to the Claimant as soon as is reasonably possible after it is received from the insurance company in the Company office.
Appropriate income tax will be deducted so that the cheaue from the insurance company will be net of income tax.
Id The Company shall assume the cost of a $10 single and $20 family deductible Extended Health Care Plan including semi-private hospital coverage for all eligible employees.
(d)	UFCW TRUSTEED DENTAL PLAN
(a)	Effective July 15, 2000 the Company agrees to contribute ,26tf (twenty-six cents) per hour, for all hours paid and worked to the UFCW Trusteed Dental Pian. Hours paid and worked is defined as regular hours, vacation, paid holidays and sick days to a maximum of 40 hours perweek per employee, but shall not include overtime or weekly indemnity payments. The Company will also be responsible to pay any applicable taxes. Effective June 1, 2001 the contributions will increase to 29 cents. Effective June 1,2002 the contributions will increase to 31 cents
(b)	The Company agrees to sign the Participation Agreement
The Company shall forward all contributions together with a list of all employees and the number of hours paid and worked for each employee in each reporting period within 15 (fifteen) days following the end of each of the Company's accounting periods
(e)	The Company will continue to pay the premiums for eligible
employees in respect of the existing Eye Care Plan provided that the
23
existing Plan shall be up-graded effective date of ratification lo provide a subsidy of up to $175.00 every twenty-four months with no deductible. for either glasses or contact lenses.
22.02	Premiums for Benefits
The Company agrees to continue to pay the premiumsforthe various health and welfare benefits providedfor in Article 22 of this Agreement on behalf of eligible employeesfor a period of one month only after such employee ceases to be actively at work
That period of one month will be extended to three months only where the employee is not actively at work as a result of being entitled to and while receivingWeekly IndemnityBenefitspursuant to the Company Plan.
Furthermorethat period of one month will be extendedto twelve months only where the employee is not actively at work as a result of being entitled to and while receivingWorkers' Compensation benefits due to an accidentatthe plant.
A return to active work for a period of less than thirty (30) working days shall notbeconsidereda returnto activeworkforth© purposesof reinstatingthe Company's obligationsto pay premiumsfor benefits as provided for in this ArticIe.
ARTICLE23 - PENSIONPLAN
23.01	The Company agreesto make the following contributionsas indicated below for all hours paid to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week for all non-probationaryemployeesiothe CanadianCommercialworkers Industry Pension Plan (C.C.W.I.P.P.). The Companyfurther agrees to sign a ParticipationAgreementor any other necessary documents required.
Effectively 15,2000, the Company will contributean additional.550 (fifty-five cents) per hour peremployeefor all hours paid to a maximum of 40 (forty) hours perweektothe Canadian Commercial Workers Industry PensionPian
ARTICLE24-GENERAL
24.01	In the event of a discharge,suspensionfor more than three (3) days or layoff
of an employee for a period in excess of the day, the Companywill advise the Plant Chairman and the Unionoffice of such event
24
o
24.02	The Company will not assign work normally performedby employees inthe
bargaining unit to foreman to the extent that as a result employees in the
bargainingunitare laid off, senthomewithoutcompletingtheirnormal day's work or deprived of overtime.
24.03	For all driverswho havecompletedtheir probationaryperiod.the company will providea uniform as follows: 2 pairs of pants, 3 shirts, 2 jackets, 1 hat.
24.04	The Company agreesto contributeone cent(0.01(f) per regularhour per employee exceptfor summer students to the UFCW Local 175 Training& EducationFund which will beforwardedtothe Union Office every four (4) week period. Effective June 1,2001 the contributionswill increaseto two cents ($0.02) per regular hour per employee.
24.05	The Company agreesto pay half the cost of the printingof the Collective Agreements.
24.06	The Company agreesto maintainits' current practise regardingclean up time.
ARTICLE25 -UNION SECURITY
25.01	Duringthe lifetimeof this Agreementthe Companyshall deductfrom the pay of ail employeeswho have acquired seniority covered by this Agreement on the first payday of each calendar month the sum of $???? and shall remit same priortothe end of such monthto the Financial Secretary of the Union. The said sums shall be accepted by the Union as the regular monthly dues of those employeeswho are or shalt become members of the Union and the sums so deductedfrom non-members of the Union shall be treated as their contributiontowards the expensesof maintainingthe Union. The Company shall further deductfrom the pay of all new employeeswhen they attain senioritythe duly authorizedfee in accordancewith the Union Constitution
25.02	Effectiveon or before Februaryl, 2001 the dues and initiation reportwill be provided inthe form of e-mail fremit<aiufcw.17S.com\ or on computer diskette, as well as a hard copy of the dues report being attached to the remittancecheque.
ARTICLE 26 -TERMINATION
26.01	This Agreementshall remain in full force and effect from June 1,2000 to
May 31,2003, and shall continue in force from year to year thereafter unless in any year not more than sixty days, and not less than thirty days, before the
25
i notice of or
: gnraeman1
Notwithstanding the stated effective date of 1 understood id :	i l ib the p a tii tf it II ii	le it:
herein stipulated r those set t in tl previous \	it >h
be effective from the ratification date of th s Agreement unless otherwi ifi ereii
(t Effective June 1,2000 there will be a ten cent (0.100) increase to all wage rates and aff classifications. Effective December 1,2000 a further ten cent (.100) increase to all wages and classifications Effective June 1, 200' a further fifteen (1*5) cent increase to all wane rates and classifications. Effective December 1,2001 a fi tier ten (10) cent Increase to all wage rates and classifications. E e ti> June
1, 2002 a further twenty-five (25) cent increase to all wage rates and classifications.
(c)	It is understood that increases in wage rates on Schedule "A" s z result of classification nr grade level adjustments will not be made retroactive.
•26
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the party of the first part and the party of the second part nave caused their proper officers to affix their signatures the day and year first above written. Executed on this '2-1 ^ day of fOoJ loco at Brampton Ontario
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175 A.F.L., C.I.O.,
Diane'Marchand
27
SCHEDULE"A"
SKILL GRADES AND WAGES
SKILL
GRADES
Effective Junel, 00
Effective Dec. 1, 00
Effective Junel,01
Effective Dec. 1,01
Effective Junel, 02
Grade I All operations not listed in higher skill grades
GfadeJL—
from carcasses or paris)
Hanging
Tending Circular Cul-up Saw
Pulling Skin on line and in the Portioning room involving work in progress
Wing Splitting	$14,75
Quality Control	$14.75
(laboratory)
Meat Shovellers	$14.75
(Finger line.
Formax line.
Roast line)
D.S.I. Machine	$14.75
Portioned Meat Pack Out
$14.40
$14.75
$14.75
$14.75
$14.75
$14.50
$14.85
$14,85
$14.85
$14.85
$14.85
$14.85
$14.85
$14.85
$14.65
$15.00
$15.00
$15.00
$15.00
$15.00
$15.00
$15.00
$15.00
$14.75	$15.00
$15.10
$15.10	$15.35
$15.10	$15.35
$15.10	$15.35
$15.10	$15.35
$15.10	$15.35
$15.10	$15.35
$15.10	$15.35
28
SKILL GRADES Effective Effective Effective Effective Effective
June*!, 00 Oec. 1/00 June 1/01 Dec. 1/Q1 June 1/02
Grade III
Dry Warehouse	$15.30
Control Major Sanitation (not janitorial or garbage)
Line Supplying	$15.30
(not simply operating Power Hand Truck)
Massage Room	$15.30
Control
Cooler	$15.30
Warehousing Control
Machine andlor	$15.30
Line Operating (required to maintain, adjust and operate) one of the following machines and/or lines:
$15.40	$15.55
$15.40	$15.55
$15:40	$15.55
$15.40	$15.55
$15.40	$15.55
$15.65	$15,90
$15.65	$15.90
$15.65	$15.90
$15.65	$15.90
$15.65	$15.90
K.F.C. Line	$15.30	$15.40	$15.55	$15,65	$15.90
(a)	Operating a patty
line or complex
which includes
breading, batter, predust
and battermixer machines
(b)	Operating the $15.30	$15.40	$15.55	$15.65	$15.90
formax machine
Boning Line Dumping will be paid Grade III (until the installationof a lifting device at which time it will revert back to Grade II)
(c)	Operatingthe	$1530	$1540	$15 55	$1565	$1590
Co2 preblend massage machine
Meat Preparation	$15 30	$15 40	$15 55	$15 65	$15 90
29
SKILL GRADES Effective	Effective	Effective	Effective
June 1/00	Dec. 1/00	June 1/01	Dec. 1/01
Patty Lines	$15.30	$15.40	$15.55	$15 65
(a)	Operating a patty line or complex which includes breader, batter, and formax machines
(b) Operatingthe	$1530	$15.40	$15.55	$15.65
Co2 preblend massage
machine
FingerLine
(a) Operatingthe $15.30	$15 40	$15.55	$15.65
Finger making line
or complex which includesthe
batter, breader, predust and
batter mixing machines
Fryer Line (a) Operating the Frier Line or complex	$15.30
(b) Operating the Batter/breading line or complex	$15.30
Emulsion Machine Operaling	$15.30
Silent Cutter Operating	$15.30
Grade IV Sanitation (not/anitoriai or Garbage)	$15 50
$15.40	$15.55	$15	65
$15 40	$15.55	$15	65
$15.40	$15 55	$15	65
$15.40	$15.55	$15	65
$15.60	$15.75	$15	85
GradeV
Receiving	$15.80	$15.90	$16 05	$16 15
Grade VI
Truck Driver	$16 05	$16.15	$16.30	$16.40
Shipping, Freezer, Warehouse
Effective June 1/02
$15 90
$15 90
$15 90
$1590 $15 90
$15 90 $15 90
$16 10
$16 40 $16 65
30
SKILL GRADES	Effective June 1/00	Effective Dec. 1/00
Grade VII Maintenance III Handyman	$17.12	$17.22
Grade VIII Experienced and skilled Mechanic not holding	$18.80	$18.90
Grade IX Experienced $20,05 and skilled tradesman holding current papers in a required trade		$20.15
Grade X Electrician	$21.05	$21 15
Effective	Effective	Effective
June 1/01 Dec. 1/01 June 1/02
$17.37	$17.47	$17.72
$19.05	$19.20	$19.45
$20.30	$20.40	$20.65
$21.30	$21.40	$2165
Effective July 15, 2000 all employees in meat preparation will be re-classified to grade III plus all general increases.
Effective July 15, 2000 all employees in sanitation excluding house keeping and cleanup will be upgraded to grade IV. the rate to be $15.40 plus all general increases
MAINTENANCE APPRENTICES
Enrolledin a CertificateCourse in a RequiredTrade
I	Jine 1/00	Oec. 1/00	June 1/01	Dec 1/01	June 1/02
1” Year Active Service	$14.22	$14.32	$14.47	$14.57	$14.82
2'* Year Active Service	$15.17	$15.27	$15.42	$15.52	$15.77
1" Year Active Service	$14.99	$15,09	$15.24	$15.34	$15,59
2nd Year Active Service	$15.92	$16.02	$16.17	$16.27	$16.52
3” Year Active Service	$16.67	$16.77	$16.92	$17.02	$17,27
4W Year Active Service	$17.67	$17.77	$17.92	$18.02	$18.27
3's Year Active Service	$17.42	$17.52	$17.67	$17,77	$18.02
4* Year Active Service	$18.42	$18.52	$18.67	$18.77	$19.02
(a)(1) The starling rate will be fifty (50) cents less than the applicablefull rate for the skill grade until completionof the probationary period.
(a)(2) Progressionratesfor employees hired priorto November 7, 1998 for skill grades 1,11, III.
0-12 months75% of wage rate 12-15 months 80% of wage rate 15-18 months 85% of wage rate 18-21 months 90% of wage rate more than 21 months 100% of wage rate
32
(a)(3) Progressionratesfor employees hired afterthe date of ratification November 7,
1998 for skill grades (, II, III.
0-12 months75% ofwage rate 12-15 months80% ofwage rate 15-18 months85% ofwage rate 18-21 months90% ofwage rate 21-27 months95% ofwage rate more than 27 months 100% ofwage rate
(b)	Upon becominga journeyman. a maintenanceapprenticewill be regroupedto the appropriateskill grade.
(c)	Lead Hand Rates: The Company may appointlead handswhowill receive seventy-five (75) cents above the ratefortheirskill grade while so acting. Lead Hands shall be a memberof the bargaining unit and as such shall not havethe powerto hire, fire, or discipline
(d)	Ail current employees (as at November?, 1998). including all temporary employeeswill continue to progressthroughthe progressionscheduleas setout in(a)(2) of ScheduleA inthe CollectiveAgreement.
•33
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Re: Attendance Programs
In the event the Company proposes to introduce a new Attendance Program it will discuss the matterwith the Employee-Employer Relations Committee prior to implementation.
GALCO FOOD PRODUCTS LIMITED
UNITED FOOD & COMMEI 1C IAL WORKERS INTERNATION \l UN1C N
34
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Re: Temporary Positions
We wish to confirm our understanding that the Company will post certain temporary positions which become available in the plant.
The posting itself will have the word "TEMPORARY POSITION" clearly stated.
Positions made available due to vacation schedules are not considered "TEMPORARY POSITIONS and therefore will not be posted.
Where the Company wishes to fill a temporary vacancy which it reasonably anticipates will exceed twenty working days in Grade 11 or a higher grade, it will post the position as a "TEMPORARY POSITION" provided:
(j) only persons from the same shift my apply,
(jj) the procedure in Article 15.11 of the Collective Agreement will be followed:
(jjj) the Company can fill in its discretion any such vacancy until the selection process is complete:
(iV) it is understood that Article 15.11 (d) does not apply to temporary positions.
(v)	Article 15.11(C) will be amended for temporary positions so that only the original vacancy will be posted by the Company; and
(vi)	Notwithstanding any other provisions in the Collective Agreement a successful applicant from a higher grade will get the pay rate for the lower grade which he has bid.
GALCO FOOD PRODUCTS LIMITED
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Re: Pav Cheques
In the event there is an error in any employee'spay cheque to the extent of four (4) hours pay or more, the Company upon being advised of the error, will issue a separate cheque by the next pay period.
GALCO FOOD PRODUCTS LIMITED	UNITED FOOD &COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONALUNION
36
LETTER OF INTENT
Effective November 12,1993
It is the Company's intentionto carry on the actual practice (based upon seniority) concerningemployeetemporarytransfers of more than one(1) hour.
COMPANY
UNION
37'
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Subject: Seven (7) Dav Operation
1.	The Partiesagreethat it may eventually be necessary to establish, for certain operations, a workweek spread over seven (7) days, depending upon the requirements of the business. The Company will informthe Employeesand the Uniona minimumof thirty (30) days in advance
2.	Inthe eventthat a seven (7) day workweek is implemented.no permanent Employees as at date of ratificationof the collectiveagreementwill be required to work on a weekend shift unless they choose otherwise
3.	Employeeswho havecompletedthe probationaryperiodandwho havetheir workweek affected by the establishmentof a seven(7) daywork week may, where skill and efficiencyare relativelyequal, displacethe mostjunior employee in an equal rate skill grade if available, or, if not available,then in the next lower skill grade level.
4.	A) The standard workweek shall consist of
Five (5) consecutivedays of eight (8) hours (afternoonshift-production).or Four (4) consecutivedays often (10) hours (day shift-production), or Three (3) consecutivedays of ten (I0), twelve (12). and twelve (l2)hours (Total of 34 hours). Friday to Sunday.
From MondayOHOO to Sunday24HOO
B) The three (3) consecutive day shift, Friday to Sunday will be a new shift.
Employees hired for the three day shiftwill be classified as full-time employees covered by this CollectiveAgreement.
The following provisionsof this letter apply lo employeeson a seven (7) day operating schedule.
SEVEN (7) DAY OPERATION(continued)
6.03	Arbitration	"Working days", as referredto in this Agreement,
shall be defined as Monday to Friday inclusive.
7.01	Management Grievances "Working days", as referredto in this Agreement,shall be defined as Monday to Friday inclusive
38
10.02 Wages, newoperations "Working deys", as referredto in this Agreement, shall be defined as Monday to Fridayinclusive.
15.11 (A) Overtime, regulardays off or holidays
Replace referenced 3,5 and 10 working days by 7,7, 14 calendar days.
11.01	(C) Shift Premium
Standard eight (8), ten (10) or twelve (12) on his respectiveshifts
12.02	Article 12 - Hours of Work and Overtime
a)	The standardwork week shall consist of forty (40) hours (thirty four (34) hours in the case of a three (3) days work week) Monday OOHOOto Sunday 24H00.
b)	The standardwork day shall be:
-	(five) 5 consecutive days of eight (8) hours (afternoonshift-
production),or
-	(four) 4 consecutive days of ten (10) hours (day shift-production), or
-	(three) 3 consecutive days often (10) and twelve (12) and twelve
(12) hours. Friday to Sunday:
12.03	(A) Overtime at the rate of time and one half the Employee'sregular hourly
rate shall be paid for all overtime hours worked in excess of the standard work week or the standardworkday and double the Employee'sregular hourly rate for all overtimehours worked cn Sundays providing Sunday is not a standardworkday in which case time and one half the Employee's regular hourly rate shall apply.
12.03	(B) Add at the end: provided it is not a three (3) day work week ARTICLE 14 - PLANT HOLIDAYS
14.01	second a) becomes b) b) becomesc)
14.01	b) to replace "Monday through Friday" by "during the employees regular
work week"
39
15.10	Overtime on Regular Pays Off
ai When the Company decides that overtimework is necessary
throughout the regular work week, it will be assignedto employees on the same shift who are performingthe work required, provided they are ready and availablefor such work
b) For Skill Grades I and II; if overtime is requiredduringthe
individualsday off or a statutory holiday, where skill and efficiency to perform the availablework are relatively equal, it will be assigned to more senior employees in the plant who normallywork on the shift the work is to be performed.
Provided that inthe case of available overtimework involvesraw-boning (whichfalls within Skill Grade II) or portioning of meal (Skill Grade I), in order to be qualifiedforthe overtime work the employee must have also passed the necessary skilltest applicationlo either raw-boningor portioning of meat as the case may be within the twelve month period immediately preceding the overtime assignment.
Except in cases of emergency, the Company agrees to schedule a day shift before schedulingan afternoonshift.
c)	I n all other Skill Grades, availableovertimework on regulardays off or holidayswill be assignedto senior employeeswho normally performthe work cn the shift available.
d) These provisionsdo not apply to employeesclassifiedin Maintenance
Grades.
f) Where an employee works on regular days off or a holiday at an operation having a skill grade level and rate lowerthan his regularskill grade level and rate, the lower skill grade level and rate shall apply forthat work not withstandingany other provisionsof the CollectiveAgreement (that is, no rate maintenancein this situation).
40
ARTICLE 19 ■ REST PERIODS
19.01	following adjustments will be made
8 hours/day:	two (2) 10 minute breaks
10 hours/day:	three (3) 10 minute breaks
12 hours/day:	four (4) 10 minute breaks
GALCO FOOD PRODUCTS LIMITED
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
41
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Re: Casual Employees
Definition:
A Casual Employee is an on call employeewhose presence at work is required
occasionallyto replacean absent employee.
1.	The Company may call in Casual Employeeto replacefull-time employeeswho are absent from work due to illness, accident, vacation outside the normal vacation period, authorized leave of absence and parental leave. Howeverthe Company will havea maximum of 12 casualemployeeinthe plant at any time. Should special circumstances arise the Companywill contact the Local Union Representativeandthe parties may agree to an increasednumberof casual employees.
2.	Casualemployeeswill pay uniondues, and will be paid at the rate of the job which they are replacing, and they will not have benefit coverage.
3.	Casualemployeeswill not be used when a layoff is in effect unless the laid off employees choose not to accept the recall.
4.	Casualemployeeswill notperform overtime work normally done by a regular full-time employee, unless the overtime has been refused by all regularfull-time employees.
5.	The Company agrees that this letter will not be in effect and Casual employees will not be called in until Articles15.11 and 15.12 have been exhausted and the regular full-timeemployeeshave been giventhe opportunity to replace extended temporary absences (vacations, parental leaves, weekly indemnity, workmen compensationand authorized leave of absence)
6.	The Company will provide a list of the employees who are being replaced and their shift; the reason forthe replacement and the period of time the employees will beabsentfor. The listwill befoiwardedtothe Unionoffice on aweekly basis A copy of such list will also be providedto the chief steward and all the Union
. stewards.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Re: DirectDeposit
The Company will offer the option of direct deposit to all Employeeswho so wish it and all others will be issued a standard pay cheque.
GALCO FOOD PRODUCTSLIMITED
UNITEDFOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
43
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
RE: LABOUR/MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The parties agree to establisha Labour ManagementCommittee. The purposeofthis committee will be to share ideas among the parties on howthe operation can be improved.
•44
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
RE:TIME LIMITS
I n view of recent changes to the Ontario Labour Relations Act, and resulting decisions therefrom.andinviewofthe parties'historyofamiableLabourRelations,the partiesagree to the following:
Thatneither party shall raise or proceed witha timeliness issueargumentregarding "filingfor arbitration"withoutfirst giving the other party written prior notice of its intentto do so.
Should either party seive such notice on the other party the parties further agree that the final time frame intheCollectiveAgreementrespecting"filingforarbitration" shallthen be triggered.
The partiesfurtheragreethatany BoardofArbitrationorsinglearbitratorshall have full jurisdiction to adjudicate the matter respecting timeliness in light of this
•45
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
RE: PLANT CONGESTION
As per our conversationduri renegotiations,we have come up wilh the followingshort-term and long-termsolutionsto plant congestion.
SHORTTERM:
Equipment not in use will be movedfrom the productionarea
Meat for Montrealwill be stored in the freezer for loading,first thing in the morning.
Unusedpoultry will be stored in a trailer.
LONG TERM:
We will convert part of the existing freezer into a cooler storage area for work-in* process meat only.
We will build a galvanized walkway around the parameter of the existing cooler.
These are subjectto budget approval, which will occur towards the end of November.
•46
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
RE; PARKING FACILITIES
As per our conversationduring negotiations, Iwish to confirm that we will be expanding the parking lot by approximately 12 feet.
We will also be in I] ng an electronic gal to control the flow of traffc This should be completed by the i of September 2000.
•47
NORTHERN REGION
JIM ANDRESS
Secretary-Treasurer
Bill Kalka Union Representative
Flank
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
Room 21, Lakehead Labour Centre, 929 Fort William Road, Thunder Bay, Ontario P7B 3A6 Phone: (807) 346-4227 Fax: (807) 346-4055 Wats (800) 465-6932
EASTERN REGION
0
BTH
Dan Lacroix
Director
ReaBaughan Ray Bromley	Luc Lacelle
Union Representative Union-Representative Union Representative
Marilyn Lang
Union Representative
Ian Miller
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
20 Hamilton Ave. North, Ottawa, Ont. K1Y 1B6 Phone: (613)725-2154 Fax: (613)725-2328 (800)267-5295
SOUTHWEST REGION
Wendv Absolom
Union Representative
Julie Marentette
Union Representative
Onichuk
Dan
Director
S Bayne
Union Representative
Angus Locke
Union Representative
Ste S| II
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
124 Sydney St. South, Kitchener, Ont. N2G 3V2 Phone: (519) 744-5231 Fax: (519) 744-8357 (800) 265-6345
CENTRAL REGION
Larry Bain
Union Representative
Jerry Clifford
Union Representative
Jim Hastings
Executive Assistant
Mike Brennan
Union Representative
Joe DeMelo
Union Representative
John DiFalco
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
2200 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario Phone: (905) 821 -&329 Fax (905) 82 Toll-free outside Metro Toronto
(800) 565-8329
CENTRAL REGION con’t
Don-Morin —
Union Representative
Dan Serbin
Union Representative
Fernando
Union Representative
Harry
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
2200 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905)821-8329 Fax (905) 821-7144 Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800)565-8329
SOUTH ■ CENTRAL REGION
Jim Andress
Seaetaiy-Treasurer
ludith B h	Kevin Oowlii
Union Representative	Union Representative
Sharon Gall	Maureen McCarthy
Union Representative	Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
2200 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821-8329 Fax (905) 821-7144 Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800)565-8329
ORGANIZING TEAM
(905) 821-8329	(800) 565-8329
John Fuller
Executive Assistant
Mark FI i
Organizing Co-ordinator
Rick Wauhk
Union Representative
BENEFIT DEPARTMENT
(905)821-8329	(800)565-8329
Herb MacDonald
Benefits Co-ordinator
Karl Goennemann
Benefits Representative
UFCW
(519)744-5231	(800)265-6345
Kip Connolly
Director
LEGAL DEPARTMENT
(905) 821-8329	(800) 565-8329
Kelvin Kucey	Georgina Watts
Legal Counsel	Legal Counsel
Naveen Mehta
ADMINISTRATION
(905) 821-8329	(800) 565-8329
Robert Linton
Communications
Representative
EDUCATION & TRAINING
Walter Lumsden
Director
Victor Carrozzino
Training & Education Staff
Sylvia Groom
Training & Education Staff
Dave MacMillan
Training & Education Staff
OFFICE:	11
1450 Meyerside Drive, 7th floor	J A
Mississauga, Ontario L5T 2N5	—^
Phone: (905) 564-2500 Fax: (905) 564-2898 Wats (800) 728-8902