RLE No.	\03- 0004- ll
CERT. FILE	
CERT. DATE	33YU It, %)9$D
TOTAL EMPS	iaoo
EFF. DATE	OCT. 13, W9
EXP, DATE	oct. i'I, aon
CODING CONTROL JOaPLCODED
CODER
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD AND
MAR 3 0 2010
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING INFORMATION SERVICES
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
EFFECTIVE DATE:	OCTOBER 13. 2009
EXPIRY DATE:	l .
00269 (12)
WW-l-OCDCo^icr>cn-Ea.Cjor\3-‘-o
ARTICLE
INDEX
PAGE
INTENT AND PURPOSE.................................................,3
RECOGNITION...................................................  ...„3
UNION SECURITY....................................................  4
MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS.............................................    5
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS............................................  6
REPRESENTATION....................................................  6
GRIEVANCF	mE...............................................8
LEAVES.....................................................        12
WAGES AND PREMIUMS.............................................    15
SENIORITY..........................................................16
HOURS OF WORK & OVERTIME...........................................19
DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS ...........................................    25
VACATIONS.................................................,....,...26
BULLETIN BOARDS.................................................   28
CLOTHING.........................................................  28
SAFETY AND HEALTH..................................................30
JOB TRANSFERS....................................................  31
REPORTING AND CALLOUT PAY......................................    33
MISCELLANEOUS................................................      33
DRIVERS..........................................................  34
BENEFITS...............................................  ..........36
RELATIONSHIPSAND COMMUNICATIONS..................................  39
DURATION.........................................................  41
APPENDIX "A (October 2008) APPENDIX "B" (October2008) APPENDIX "A" (October2011) APPENDIX "B" (October2011)
42
44
46
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#! re: Load Bars..................
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2 re: Heated Mirrors...........
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3 re: Pump Jacks...............
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4 re: Air Conditioning Units...
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5 re: UFCW Leukemia Fund.......
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #6 re: Delivery Drivers.........
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#/ re: Students..................
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #8 re: Returnable Container Deliveries
..50
..51
..52
..53
...54
...55
...56
...57
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #9 re: Trial Periods for Successful Job Posting
Candidates......................58
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #10	re:	Time Limits for Filing for Arbitration.59
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#! 1	re:	Hours of Work and Overtime.............60
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #12	re:	Shipping...............................61
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #13	re:	Start Times............................62
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #14	re:	Ergonomic Committee....................63
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #15	re:	Retail Shippers........................64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #16	re:	Shipping Overtime......................65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #17	re:	No Layoff............................  66
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #18	re:	Downsizing or Eliminating!ransportation
Department..............................67
2
THIS AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO AS OF THE_DAY OF______, 20.
BETWEEN:
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union") OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE 1 - INTENT AND PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this agreement is in the mutual interests of the Company, the Union and the employees, and is to provide for economy of operation, quality and quantity of output, and to establish and maintain a satisfactory procedure to cover the settlement of differences arising out of this Contract, and to set forth those working conditions which have been negotiated. The Union recognizes that in order to provide a proper relationship between the parties, the Company must be kept in a strong competitive market position, which means it must produce at the best possible efficiency and lowest cost, and the Union agrees to support the Company in obtaining such objectives.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizesthe Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of all regular production employees of its Plant in Norval, Ontario save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, dispatchers, office and clerical staff, technical staff, sales and service department staff, chicken catchers, load checkers, field department staff, watchmen and security staff, cafeteria department staff, water and waste treatment department staff, machine operators, maintenance staff, bus drivers, employees regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week and students employed during a school vacation period.
Forthe purpose of clarity, the parties agree that for the purposes of this Article 2.01, maintenance staff includes all employees employed in the electrical department, mechanical department, construction department, refrigeration and heating departments and the garage.
3
2.02	The term "employee" and the word "employees" whenever used in the Agreement shall mean those persons described in the bargaining unit set forth in Article 2.01.
2.03	The Company agrees the foremen, persons above the rank of foremen andallnon-bargaining unit personnel will not perform bargaining unit work, except for instruction, or training of bargaining unit personnel, emergency situations or customer adjustments. Customer adjustments shall mean a person designated by the Company to handle customer complaints and adjustments and shall not result in the person so designated doing a regular route.
2.04	When the Company finds it necessary to use non-bargaining unit personnel to do bargaining unit work, they will advise the department Steward of the name of the non-bargaining unit person, the job to be performed and the approximate length of time that the non-bargaining unit person will be performing the bargaining unit job. Not included in the notification requirement is washroom relief, emergency situations, employees late for work and relief to attend to Union business.
The Company will not use non-bargaining unit employeesto do bargaining unit work except in cases of non repetitive emergency, washroom relief, employees late for work, relief for Union business, instruction of new employees and instructionon new modified machinery and training in health and safety.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
3.01	The Company agrees to deduct every week from the earnings of each employee regular Union dues and to remit the total so deducted monthly to the designated officer of the Union, together with the list of employees from whom such deductions have been made. The dues and initiation report will be provided in the form of email (remit at UFCW175.com) or computer diskette as well as a hard copy of the dues report being attached to the remittance cheque.
3.02	In order that the Company may have definite instructions as to what amount is to be deducted for Union dues, it is agreed that the Union will promptly notify the Company, in writing, over the signature of his designated officer, the amount of the deduction to be made by the Company for regular Union dues, and the Company shall have the right to continue to rely on such written notification until it receives other written notification from the Union signed with the same formality.
3.03	The Union agrees to hold the Company harmless against all claims, demands, and expenses should any person, at any time, contend or claim that the Company has acted wrongfully or illegally in making such dues deduction.
3.04	Twice the regular monthly Union dues shall be deducted in anyone check-off where the employee was absent or had insufficient pay in the check-off immediately preceding.
4
3.05	The Company agrees to list the amount of Union dues paid on employees' T-4 forms for income tax purposes.
3.06	The Company will advise the Union once a month of the names, addresses and Social Insurance Number of each new employee, also, the names of employees being separated.
3.07	The Company agrees to deduct after completion of the probationary period the Union initiation fee when presented with a signed application for membership card that authorized such deduction. The Unionwill advisethe Company in writing of the amount of the initiation fee.
As a condition of employment all employees hired afterthe date of ratification of this Anmerrifint must becnm© and remain a member of the Union in qood standina. The Company agrees to have the employee fill out Union application cards as part of the hiring process.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS
4.01	Except as, and to the extent specifically modified by this Agreement, all rights and prerogatives of Management are retained by the Company and remain exclusively within the rights of the Company and its Management. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company's rights include:
(a)	the right: to maintain order, discipline and efficiency to make, alter and enforce, reasonable rules and regulations, policies and practices, to be obeyed by its employees; to discipline and discharge employees for just cause;
(b)	the right: to select, hire and control the working force and employees; to transfer, assign, promote, demote, classify, lay-off, recall, suspend and retire employees, to plan, direct and control operations; to select and retain employees for positions excluded from the bargaining unit (provided the employee so selected had no objection to the promotion) and to transfer employees into the bargaining unit;
(c)	the right: to operate and manage the enterprise in order to satisfy its commitments and responsibilities, the right to determine the location of operations and their expansion or curtailment, the direction of the working forces, the scheduling of operations and production, the sub-contracting of work, the number of shifts, the methods, processed and means of production, job content, quality and reasonable quantity standards, the right to use improved methods, machinery and equipment, the right to decide on the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, the number of hours to be worked, starting and quitting times; and generally, the right to
manage the enterprise and its business without interference are solely and exclusively the right of the Company; and;
(d)	the sole and exclusive jurisdiction over all operations, building, machinery, equipment and employees shall be vested in the Company.
4.02	The Company agrees that it will not exercise the foregoing rights in a manner inconsistent with the expressed provisions of this Agreement.
4.03	The Company will provide the Union with copies of changes to its written rules and regulations prior to implementation. If the Union wishes to comment on such written rules and regulations, it shall do so within five (5) days of receipt.
ARTICLE 5 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
5.01	The Union undertakes and agrees that while this Agreement is in operation, neither the Union nor any employee, shall take part in or call or encourage any strike, picketing, sit down, slowdown, or any suspension of or stoppage of or interference with work or production which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company; and the Company agrees that it will not engage in any lockout during the term of this Agreement.
5.02	Any employee who participates in any of the foregoing conduct may be disciplined or discharged.
5.03	In the event of the Union or employees participating in activity prohibited by Article
5.01	hereof, all seniority rights underthis Agreement shall be suspended until such activity ceases.
5.04	The word "strike" and the word "lockout" as used in Article 5.01 and 5.04 above shall have the same meaning given to those words in the current Ontario Labour Relations Act, "as amended from time to time."
ARTICLE 6 - REPRESENTATION
6.01	The Union may elect or appoint from amongst employees with at least six months' seniority, Union Stewards from each department listed in Article 6.02. The Union will inform the Company, in writing, of the identity of all Union Representatives, and the Company shall not be obliged to recognize such personnel until it has been so informed. In addition and subject to the conditions as foregoing, the Union shall advise the Company of all other Union Officials.
6.02	The Union may elect or appoint Union Officials from the various departments listed below providedthat the number of elected or appointed does not exceedtwenty five (25) and provided that the other requirements of this Article 6.02 are complied with.
6
No more than one (1) official may be elected or appointed from a department with less than fifty (50) employees.
Where departments have employees working on more than one shift, one (1) Union official may be elected or appointedfor each shift where there are less than fifty (50) employees in a department on a shift. No more than three (3) employees may be elected or appointed as Union Officialsfrom any one department. The departments for purposes of this Article are as follows:
(a)	Live Haul;
(b)	Delivery Drivers;
(c)	Shipping;
(d)	Eviscerating;
fe1*	i i\/« Rtaroiv/inrr
\~/	— -W .	■■
(f)	Packing/Tying;
(0)	Cut-up;
(h)	Cut-In-Nine;
(1)	Sanitation;
(j)	Deboning;
(k)	Further Processing;
(l)	New	Further Processing;
(m)	Tray	Pack;
(n)	Breast Deboning;
(o)	Individual Quick Frozen (I.Q.F.);
(p)	Coning;
(q)	Cooler VRT;
(r)	High	Pressure	Process (HPP);
(s)	Yard	Shunting
6.03	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint or select a Negotiating Committee comprising of not more than seven (7) employees who have at least one (1) year seniority with the Company. The Chief Steward will automatically have a seat on the Negotiating Committee by virtue of his/her position. (The Union will give its best effort to ensure that the Negotiating Committee is representative of all bargaining unit areas of the Company).
The Company shall pay fifty (50) percent of eight (8) hours wages for no more than seven (7) employees on the Negotiating Committee, up to a total of five (5) days per employee (a combined total of thirty-five (35) days) for attendance at negotiation sessions with the Company. Payment shall be at the employees' straight time hourly rate.
6.04	The Union agrees that no Union member or Representativewill conduct any Union Activities on the premises of the employer without expressed permission of the Personnel Manager or his designate. No Union official shall have access to the
7
premises of the Company without the expressed consent of the Personnel Manager or his designate.
6.05	For the purpose of this Agreement, the Stewards together with the officers of the Union shall be deemed to be Officials of the Union. The parties hereto agree that # the Union Officials occupy positions of leadership and responsibilityto see that this Agreement is faithfully carried out.
6.06	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint a grievance Committee.
Such Committee shall be composed of the Chief Steward, and Steward from the area in which the grievance arose. Committee members shall not suffer a loss in pay as a result of attendance at grievance meetings with Management. Where possible, such meetings will be held during regular working hours.
6.07	Where a Representative of the Union wishes to visit the Company's premises, he shall request permission for such a visit in advance. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. A Representative of the Union having been given permission to visit the Company's premises shall restrict his activities to the purpose for which such permission was granted.
6.08	The Company agrees to make available for the use of the Union, once per week, a boardroom in which to conduct Union business. The Company has agreed to provide such boardroom on the understanding that the privilege will not be abused.
6.09	During planned absences of the Chief Steward, a designate shall be appointed by the Union to replace the Chief Steward. The designate shall have all the rights and responsibilities of the Chief Steward.
6.10	The Employer agrees that during the orientation session for new hires the Chief Steward shall be permitted to introduce himself to the new hires and present them with a copy of the Collective Agreement. The Chief Steward will explain general rights and responsibilities.
ARTICLE 7 -GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	The grievance procedures herein provided for are among the most important matters in the successful administration of the Agreement. The Company and the Union therefore agree that the designated grievance procedure, as hereinafter set forth, shall serve and constitute the sole and exclusive means to be utilized by the grievor for the prompt disposition, decision and final settlement of a grievance arising in respect of the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of this Agreement, and the specifically designated grievance procedure shall be strictly followed. Wherever, the term "grievance procedure" is used in this Agreement, it shall be considered as including the arbitration procedure.
8
7.02	"Grievance" shall mean a complaint or claim concerning improper discipline or _ -discharge, or a dispute with reference to the interpretation, application,
administration, or alleged violatlorfof thTs Agreement.
7.03	The Company shall be under no obligation to consider or process any grievance unless such grievance has been presented to the Company in writing at Step 1 of the grievance procedure within four (4) days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based were known or should have been known by the grievor. However, if the Company does consider or process a grievance which has been presented late, the Company shall not be estopped or precluded at any stage from taking the position that the grievance is late and not arbitrable.
7.04	All time limits referred to in the grievance procedure herein contained shall be
deemed to mean "work days".
7.05	No employee shall have a grievance until he has discussed his complaint with his foremen. The employee shall bring the circumstances of his complaint to the attention of the Foremen within four (4) days from the time the circumstances upon which the complaint is based were known or should have been known. The foreman will meetwith the grievor and Steward as soon as possible to try to resolve the complaint. If the foreman does not promptly settle the matter to the employee's satisfaction, the employee's proper grievance shall be processed as follows:
In case of drivers, such time limits shall be extended to ten (10) days.
STEP NO. 1
If an employee has a grievance, the grievance shall within four (4) days referredto in Article 7.03 hereof, be reduced to writing and presented to the department manager. The department manager shall give the grievor a written reply as soon as possible, but not later than four (4) days after such decision. If such reply is not satisfactory to the grievor, the next step must be taken within four (4) days of the department manager's answer, but not thereafter.
The grievance referred to above shall identify:
(a)	the facts giving rise to the grievance;
(b)	the section or sections of the Agreement claimed violated, if any;
(c)	the relief requested.
and shall be signed by the employee and countersigned by the Steward.
STEP NO. 2
At this step, the written grievance shall be presented to the Industrial Relations Manager or his designate, within the aforesaid four (4) days of receipt of the
9
department manager's reply but not thereafter. A meeting will be held between the grievance Committee together with the grievor involved and the Industrial Relations Manager, together with other Representatives of management within four (4) days of the presentation of the written grievance to the Industrial Relations Manager. A staff Representative of the Union may be present at such a meeting if requested by either party. The Industrial Relations Manager shall give his written reply to the Steward within four (4) days of such meeting.
If the Industrial Relations Manager's reply is not satisfactory to the grievor, the next step must be taken within ten (10) days after the delivery of the Industrial Relations Manager's reply to the Steward but not thereafter.
STEP NO. 3
I n the event the grievance is not settled at Step 2, the party having carriage of the grievance shall request arbitration of the grievance by giving notice in writing to the other party within ten (10) days from the delivery of the decision at Step 2 to the Steward but not thereafter.
If the request for arbitration is not so given, within such ten (10) day period, the decision at Step 3 shall be final and binding upon both parties to the Agreement, and upon any employee involved.
The notice to arbitrate shall contain the name and address of the moving party's nominee to the Board and shall also specify all of the outstanding issues of the written grievance to be dealt with by the Board and the remedy sought. The party giving such notice shall be bound by same and shall be restricted to arbitrate the issues presented by the notice.
The recipient of the notice shall within ten (10) days advise the other party, in writing, of the name of the appointee to the arbitration board. The two (2) appointees so selected shall, within five (5) days of the appointment of the second of them, appoint a third person who shall be the chairman. If the two (2) appointees fail to agree upon a chairman, within the time limited, the Ministry of Labour for Ontario shall if requested, within the five (5) days from the expiry of the date upon which the two (2) appointees are to appoint a chairman but not thereafter, forthwith appoint a qualified person to be chairman.
7.06	The arbitration board shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision which shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it. The decision of the majority shall be the decision of the arbitration board, but if there is no majority decision, the decision of the chairman shall govern.
7.07	The arbitration board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistentwith the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this
10
Agreement, nor to adjudicate any matter not specifically assigned to him by the notice to arbitrate specified in Step 3 of Article 7.05 hereof.
7.08	Each party hereto shall bear its own costs of and incidental to any arbitration proceedings. The fees and charges of the chairman of the board of arbitration shall be borne equally by the two (2) parties hereto.
7.09	The time limits and other procedural requirements set out in this Article 7 are mandatory and not merely directory, therefore, failure to put a grievance in writing at the proper step in accordance with the requirements hereof shall be deemed a complete waiver and abandonment of the grievance by the grievor. Any grievance not appealed from one step of the grievance procedure to the next within the specified time limit shall be deemed to be abandoned. No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not properly been carried through all specified previous steps of the grievance procedure within the time specified. The time limits in this Article 7 may be extended if both parties agree.
7.10	A grievance which has been disposed of pursuantto the grievance provisionsof this Agreement shall not again be made the subject matter of a grievance. A grievor shall have the right to withdraw the grievance at any stage of the proceedings.
7.11	A decision or settlement reached at any stage of the grievance procedure shall be final and binding upon all parties hereto, including the complaining employee, and shall not be subject to reopening by any party except by agreement in writing. If the grievance is settled at any step of the grievance procedure both the Company and the Union Representatives who pass on the same as provided herein shall, after ratification, sign the settlement as endorsed upon the written grievance, so that no question or argument may arise as to what the settlement was.
7,12	When an employee's grievance is settled by the parties or determined by a Board of Arbitration on the basis that the employee is entitled to be reimbursed for wages lost as a result of action on the part of the Company in violation of this Agreement, such reimbursement shall be at the appropriate hourly rate exclusive of any shift premiums for those days he was otherwise available for work and recall at the employer's Plant, but there shall be subtracted therefrom any and all monies the employee received during such period.
7.13	Union Policy Grievance or Company Grievance
A Union policy grievance or Company grievance may be submitted to the Company or the Union, as the case may be, in writing within five (5) days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based were known or should have been known by the grievor. A meeting between the Company and the Union shall be held within five (5) days of the presentation of the written grievance and shall take place within the framework of Step 2 of Article 7.05 hereof. The Company or the Union,
11
as the case may be, shall give its written decision within five (5) days after such meeting has been held.
If the decision is unsatisfactory to the grieving party the grievance may be submitted to arbitration within fifteen (15) days of the delivery of such written decision and the arbitration section of this Agreement shall be followed.
7.14	Discharge Cases and Suspension Cases
A claim by a seniority employee that he has been discharged or suspended shall be treated as a grievance and shall commence at Step 2 of Article 7.05 provided a written grievance signed by the employee and his Steward is presented to the designated official of the Company within three (3) days after the discharge or
suspension,
The Union shall not question the discharge or suspension of any probationary employee nor shall such discharge or suspension be the subject of a grievance. Where an employee has been discharged or suspended, he will be given an opportunity to interview his Steward prior to leaving the Company's premises provided his Steward is available on the Company's premises.
All discharge or suspension grievances shall be discussed by the parties within seventy-two (72) hours of the grievance being filed.
ARTICLE 8 - LEAVES
8.01	Personal Leave
"Leave cf absence" shall mean an absence from work requested by an employee in writing and consented to by the Company having regard to the Company's business requirements. Leave granted shall be in writing covering a specific period of time and shall be without pay or any other form of compensation, and the employee shall not work in any other position during such leave of absence unless agreed to by the Company in writing. Leave of Absence request shall be made to the Personnel Department and may be granted by the Personnel Department in accordance with the provisions of 8.01 above.
8.02	Bereavement Leave
An employee with established seniority, who suffers a loss of current spouse or child, shall be granted five (5) days leave of absence with pay, immediatelyfollowing the death. If the employee was otherwise scheduled for vacation for some or all of the five (5) day period, the vacation shall be deferred and the paid bereavement leave shall be substituted. If the employee was on compassionate leave or emergency leave at the time of the death, the paid bereavement leave shall also be
12
provided. If a statutory holiday falls within the five (5) day paid leave period, the paid leave shall be extended for an additional day. If the employee was otherwise on leave at the time of the death, then bereavement leave shall be unpaid.
An employee with established seniority, who suffers a loss of a father, mother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister or grandchild, shall be granted up to three (3) days leave of absence with pay provided that the bereavement days fall on regularly scheduled work days of the employee. Such leave shall not extend beyond the day following the day of the funeral.
An employee with established seniority, who suffers a loss of a brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent, shall be granted a one (1)day leave of absence with pay for the day of the funeral, provided that the bereavement day falls on a regularly
scheduled working day of the employee.
Bereavement pay for Live Haul Drivers and Delivery Drivers shall be paid at the 592 trailer rate.
8.03	Jury Leave
The Company shall grant a leave of absence to an employee who is required to serve as a juror or subpoenaed to appear as a crown witness during his normal working hours. The employer will pay such an employee the difference between his normal straight time hourly earnings and the payment he received forjury service or witness fee, excluding payment for travelling, meals or other expenses. The employee shall present proof of service and the amount of pay received.
8.04	Disability Leave
(a)	An employee who, because of illness or injury requiring an absence from his job shall, upon furnishing medical evidence setting out date(s) or attendance before his physician, employee's illness or injury and general treatment provided by physician, be granted a sick leave for the duration of the period of his disability due to such illness or injury. The employee shall furnish supplementary medical evidence of disability, from time to time, as required by the Company. The Company shall have access to such medical evidence. Failure to furnish such evidence of disability within five (5) working days of the request will result in termination of the employee's employment and seniority. The Company will allow an extension up to ten (10) working days if the individual is not fit to obtain a doctor's certificate within that period of time. The Company reserves the right to have any employee examined by a Company physician in connection with a sick leave.
^ When an employee requests a sick leave after the shift has started, they must if requested by the Company present a Doctor's certificate prior to returning to work which shall not be unreasonably requested.
13
Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees who are habitually absent shall be required to submit medical documentation for each and every absence if requested by the Company.
It is understood and agreed that regular attendance at work is required of employees, where the record of an employee indicates too much time off or recurring or repetitive time off, they may be subject to discipline.
The Company will advise an employee in writing when they are considered as being habitually absent.
8.05	Pregnancy and Parental Leave
The Company will grant pregnancy leave and/or parental leave, without pay, in accordance with the Employment StandardsAct of Ontario to those employees who are eligible under the Act for such leave and who make application on forms supplied by the Company. In part, the Act provides as follows:
(a)	An employee who commenced employment at least thirteen (13) weeks before the expected birth date is entitled to a leave of absence without pay.
(b)	The pregnancy leave of an employee shall be no less than seventeen (17) weeks in duration.
(c)	An employee may begin pregnancy leave no earlier than seventeen (17) weeks before the expected birth date.
(d)	The pregnancy leave of an employee shall end no laterthan seventeen (17) weeks after the leave began unless birth has not yet occurred.
(e)	The parental leave of an employee who takes a pregnancy leave must begin when the pregnancy leave ends.
(f)	Parental leave ends a maximum of eighteen (18) weeks after it begins.
8.06	Union Convention Leave
Employees will be granted a leave of absence without pay in order to attend Union Conventions or conferences subject to the following limitations:
(a)	no more than one (1) employee may be absent from a department at one time;
(bj at least two (2) weeks' notice of a requestfor such leave will be given bythe Union in writing;
14
(c)	the total number of days absent by all employees in the bargaining unit shall
not exceed twenty (20) days in a calendar year.
8.07	Union Leave
An employee who is elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union shall, upon one (1) weeks notice, be granted a leave of absence without pay, for a period not to exceed the term of this Agreement and upon one (1) week's notice of his desire to return to work with the Company, shall be placed in the position previously held, or one at equal rate of pay, and seniority during such leave of absence shall accrue. This privilege shall be limited to one (1) employee.
8.08	Return to Work
An employee returning to work from a leave of absence, sickness or pregnancy leave, Worker's Compensation, or vacation will be returned to his regular job or an equivalent job, provided he is able to do the required work and his job is available.
8.09	Modified Work
When an employee has been sick or absent due to compensation or suffering a disability without absence and a doctor recommends modified work, the Company will endeavour to provide the same and the employee will be expected to perform the work assignment provided he is capable of performing the required work.
When an employee is on modified work, overtime will be allocated at the Company's discretion. Such discretion will not be exercised in a discriminatory or arbitraryway.
8.10	The Company will notify the Chief Steward and the Union Steward of the department of any "return to work meeting" with a WSIB case worker, to allow the Chief Steward and the Union Steward to participate in the meeting, unless the employee objects.
ARTICLE9 -WAGESAND PREMIUMS
9.01 Appendix "A" attached hereto shall form part of this Collective Agreement.
9.02 Appendix nB" attached hereto shall form part of this Collective Agreement.
9.03	Employees who work beyond or below the hour shall be paid in increments of six minutes. An employee working half or more of six minutes will receive full six minute pay, and employees working less than half the six minutes shall be paid to the previous six minutes. The same formula will apply prior to the hour.
15
9.04	Employees covered by this Collective Agreement shall be paid weekly via the Company's direct deposit system. The two (2) employees who are not presently paid weekly via the Company's direct deposit system shall continue to receive manual cheques.
9.05	Where the Company makes an error on an employee's pay cheque, such error will be corrected by the following pay day provided the employee advises personnel by Tuesday. Errors of eight hours or more will be paid by separate cheque within a week from the date that personnel is notified.
ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY
10.01 An employee shall be considered a probationary employee until he has performed
i\/^
I [[	1IYW ^ V j
rla\/c rvf
fnr
ifvui r\ i vi
u iv V-/Ullipcil iy uui ii 3. yt
rt t'rrv rJ • — UU
of
+vijaIi/a / -i 0\ ivv^i \ ]
continuous months. (Statutory Holidays considered as a day worked for purposes of probationary periods). During such probationary period, he shall have no seniority rights. Upon completion of this period, the employee's seniority shall be dated from the date the employee commenced his probationary period. Where during an employee's probationary period, the Company has given him one (1) or more written warnings, it is understood and agreed that the discharge of such employee during his probationary period shall be deemed to be for just cause.
Where such warnings have been given, no Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration shall have any jurisdiction to alter, modify or amend the penalty nor to substitute any other penalty for discharge. The term "Seniority employee" as used in this Agreement shall be deemed to mean an employee who has completed his probationary period.
10.02	For the purposes of applying the seniority provisions of this Agreement, such seniority provisions shall be applied on a Plant-wide and departmental basis and only to the extent specifically provided in this Agreement.
10.03	"Plant-wide Seniority" as referred to in this Agreement shall mean the length of continuous service with the Company since the last date of hire.
10.04	"Departmental Seniority" as referred to in this Agreement shall mean the relative standing of an employee within a department based upon his Plant-wide seniority.
10.05	Forthe purposes of this Article 10, the departments for seniority purposes shall be as follows:
(a)	Live Haul;
(b)	Delivery Drivers;
(c)	Shipping;
(d)	Eviscerating;
(e)	Live Receiving;
16
1(f)	Packing/Tying;
(g)	cut-up;
(h)	Cut-In-Nine;
(j)	Sanitation;
(j)	Deboning;
(k)	Further Processing;
(I)	New Further Processing;
(m)	Tray Pack;
(n)	Breast Deboning;
(o)	Individual Quick Frozen (I.Q.F.);
(p)	Coning;
(q)	Cooler VRT;
(r)	High Pressure Process	(HPP);
(s)	Yard Shunting
10,06	Incases of lay-offs in the Plant of less than one(1) day, lay-offswill be done on job by job basis and Plant-wide seniority amongst those performing the job that day shall be the sole consideration.
10.07	In all cases of temporary lay-off i.e. five (5) working days or less, only departmental seniority need be considered.
10.08	In cases of lay-off in excess of five (5) working days Plant-wide seniority will be considered.
10.09	In filling permanentjob vacancies within a department and in cases of promotion or of increase or decrease of the work force, the following factors will be considered:
(a) Competence and Qualification
(b)	Fitness and Reliability
(c)	Seniority
Where, between employees, the factors in (a) and (b) are relatively equal, the senior qualified employee will be selected.
10.10	Where an employee has been moved to another job because of a lay-off, he shall be returned to the position he held before the lay-off prior to any employee on layoff being recalled to fill the position.
10.11	A seniority list will be prepared and posted every month and a copy sent to the Union office.
10.12	The appointment or selection of employees for supervisory positions or for any position not subject to the provisions of this Agreement is not covered by this Agreement, but if any employee on a seniority list is so transferred or appointed and later is transferred back to a position which is governed by this Agreement, then he
17
shall be accredited with the seniority he acquired prior to leaving the bargaining unit and shall have added thereto the time spent while serving outside the bargaining unit up to a maximum of six (6) months.
Such employee will only be permitted to transfer back to the bargaining unit byway of a successful application to a job vacancy made in accordance with Article 17:01 of the Agreement.
10.13	An employee shall lose all seniority and service rights and be deemed terminated if:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(0
(g)
an employee voluntarily quits;
if the employee is discharged and not re-instated through the grievance or
arbitration procedure;
if the employee fails to report to work for two (2) consecutive working days without a valid reason;
if an employee on lay-off fails to return to work after recall within one (1) working day after notification requiring him to return to work except an employee on Plant-wide lay-off who is employed elsewhere may return within seven (7) working days after the notification provided that upon receipt of the notification he advises the Company that he is working and where and intends to return to the Company. Pending his return, the Company shall be permitted to fill the position in such manner as it sees fit;
if for a period of nine (9) consecutive months the employee does not perform any work for the Company;
if an employee fails to return to work immediately after the expiration of any leave granted to him, and;
if he or she retires.
10.14	It shall be the duty of the employee or laid-off person to notify the Company promptly, in writing, of any change of address. If an employee or laid-off person shall fail to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of a notice to reach him and any notice sent by the Company by mail to the address which appears on the Company's personnel records, or telegram to the address which appears on the Company's personnel records, shall conclusively be deemed to have been received by the employee or laid-off person.
10.15	Where the Company anticipates a lay-off will exceed five (5) days, the Company will advise the Chief Steward and Union office of the names of employees being laid off. When such employees are recalled, the Chief Steward and the Union office will be advised.
18
10.16	The word "promotion" as used in this Collective Agreement shall be deemed to mean a permanent transfer to a job carrying a higher rate of pay or range of rates.
10.17	Upon expiry of an employee's recall rights, the Company shall provide the applicable statutory notice and severance entitlements.
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK & OVERTIME
11.01	It is hereby expressly understood and agreed that the provisions of this Article 11 are for the purpose of computing overtime and shall not be construed to be a guarantee of or a limitation upon the hours of work to be done per day or per week or otherwise, nor a guarantee of working schedules.
11.02	The normal work week for employees other than Live Haul Drivers or Drivers doing mileage runs will be composed of forty (40)straight time hours worked in the week.
Employees will be scheduled to be off work two (2) days per week. The first (1st) day shall be considered Saturday and the second (2nd) day shall be considered Sunday.
11.03	An employee shall be paid overtime at the rate of time and one-half (11/2) the employee's straight time rate of pay exclusive of shift premiumsfor all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day. An employee shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (1%) the employee's straight time rate of pay exclusive of shift premiums for all hours worked on their sixth consecutive day of a work week.
Employees working a seventh (7th) consecutive day of a work week shall receive two (2) times their straight time rate of pay exclusive of shift premiums.
Effective the date following ratification, 11.03 shall not be applicable to the Live Haul and Delivery Driver departments. Instead, overtime shall be payable after 44 hours worked in a week, with a week defined as commencing Sunday at 12:01 a.m. and ending Saturday at midnight. During a week in which a statutory holiday falls, the overtime threshold will be 36 hours worked and during a week in which two statutory holidays fall, the overtime threshold will be 28 hours worked.
11.04	In no case will there be duplication or pyramiding of overtime and any other premium compensation.
11.05	(a) Each employee shall be scheduled for two fifteen (15)* minute breaks,
sixteen (16)* minutes for employees working in the deli and wiener plant packaging rooms and in the wiener plant peeler room during their shift at times designated by the Company but breaks will not be changed by more than1/2 hour from normal break times. If the shift does not continue for more than two hours after the end of the unpaid lunch, only one fifteen (15)*
19
minute paid break, sixteen (16)* minutes for employees working in the deli and wiener plant packaging rooms and in the wiener plant peeler room will be provided that day. An additional break will be given if an employee works more than eight hours (8.5 hours inclusive of unpaid time) and for every two (2) continuous hours of work thereafter.
Breaks shall be timed as "time off the line" and shall include HACCP cleaning requirements.
The Company has the rightto introduce a revised breakschedulefor the IQF department for the purpose of facilitating continuous flow as follows:
Employees may be scheduled for three equal 20 minute breaks during the
Karti liar nrA^i	rlnw
i ovjuiui	uay.
The first break would be scheduled to commence not less than 60 minutes into the shift and not more than 180 minutes into the shift.
The second break would be scheduled to commence not less than 180 minutes into the shift and not more than 340 minutes into the shift.
The third break would be scheduled to commence not less than 360 minutes into the shift and not more than 460 minutes into the shift.
5 minutes of the first break shall be unpaid. The second 20 minute break shall be unpaid. 5 minutes of the third break shall be unpaid.
If the shift is 360 minutes or less, the third break will not be provide. An additional break will be given if an employee works more than eight hours (8.5 hours inclusive of unpaid time) and for every two continuous hours of work thereafter. Overtime breaks will be the same duration as 11.05(a) breaks, unless the Company, in its discretion, decides to provide longer overtime breaks for purposes of continuous flow.
Breaks shall be timed as "time off the line" and shall includeHACCP cleaning requirements.
11.06	Employeesshall receivean unpaid lunch period of at least one half (V2) hour in each day and lunch breaks will be between the 3rd and 5th hour worked.
11.07	It is understood and agreed that the Company may obtain overtime replacement in such manner as it sees fit.
(a)	Overtime is completely voluntary except in circumstancesbeyondthe control of the Company, i.e. mechanical breakdown, power failure, inclement weather delaying arrival of birds to the Plant. In these circumstances the
20
Company may require the employees to work by reverse departmental seniority if enough volunteers cannot be obtained and in such circumstances the Chief Steward and/or a Union Steward in the affected departments shall be notified and shall have an opportunity to communicate to such employees accordingly.
(k) The Company agrees to post by Thursday noon on a weekly basis for the following week a list of employees that have indicated that they wish to work overtime and the days they are willing to do so. It is from this list that the Company will assign overtime by department on a seniority basis starting with the most senior employee as follows:
(j) first from those employees who indicate they will work a complete week of overtime, then
from those employees who indicate that they will work partial week of overtime. The employee who is requested to work overtime must be notified the shift before.
Once the employee has signed for overtime and the Company does not schedule their name for overtime then the employee will have no further obligation to work overtime on that particular day.
If the Company is unable to secure sufficient employees from within a department to work overtime, then overtime will be assigned, on a seniority basis, to employees in the same Plant (11.11 definition) who have signed the list.
(c) Where overtime is available in an employee's own department, that employee will be expected to perform such overtime duties in his own department before being considered/offered overtime in another department. The Company will endeavour to work as many as possible of the employees that can not work a full week of overtime.
(d)	Where an employee accepts additional hours prior to the commencement of his scheduled shift and fails to complete his regular shift on that day he will not be offered any such additional hours for ten (10) working days thereafter.
11,08	(a) An hourly paid employee who works on a scheduled shift that commences between 2:00 p.m. and 4:59 a.m. shall receive a shift premium of forty-five (450) cents per hour for all hours worked. An employee who qualifies for shift premium will not lose their premium by starting at the request of the Company prior to their normal shift.
21
(b)	Where an hourly paid employee commences work prior to the start of their scheduled shift and starts between the hours listed above they shall receive the shift premium for all hours worked.
(c)	I n the shipping department, where an hourly paid employee works for more than three continuous hours in the freezer, he shall receivea premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour for all hours worked in the freezer.
11.09	When the Company finds it necessary to go to a second shift operation they will first ask for volunteers. Should enough volunteers not be available, the Company will use reverse seniority by the job to secure the required number of employees. When new employees have been trained the employee who has been transferred to the second shift, will be returned to the day shift if he so requests. The training period shall not exceed the probationary period. Employees may apply to be transferred from one shift to another. Such applications shall be honoured before new employees are hired.
11.10	The Company agrees that anytime there is a shortage of hours in a Plant, part-time employees and students in that Plant shall always be laid off first. For the purpose of this Article only, a "Plant" is defined as follows:
Plant 1	. Eviscerating and Live Receiving
Plant2(A) -Plant 2(B)	-
Plant3 Plant 4
Packing/Tying, Cut-Up, Cut-in-Nine, Tray Pack, Cooler VRT
Breast Deboning, Individual Quick Frozen (I.Q.F.), Coning, High Pressure Process (HPP)
Deboning and Further Processing (Weiner Plant)
New Further Processing (Deli Plant)
Sanitation Department
Shipping Department Delivery Department Live Haul Department Yard Shunting Department
As a result, affected full-time employees shall be able to exercise their seniority Company wide to bump provided they have the skill and ability to perform the job and overtime does not result.
22
11.11
11.12
11.13
11.14
The Company is permitted to use summer vacation replacements. However, should a full-time employee be laid off for a full shift he shall be able to bump summer vacation replacements Company wide.
This article does not apply to regular students employed on week-ends in retail sales department
Plant employees working twelve (12) continuous hours or more shall receive two (2) times their hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) continuous hours. Drivers working thirteen (13) continuous hours or more shall receive two (2) times their hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of thirteen (13) continuous hours.
The Company will schedule the most senior employees to start on the early vr first shift if so desired; no senior employee will be required to start later because of only working eight (8) hours.
Each employee, with the exception of production Plant employees with less than two (2) years seniority will be guaranteed thirty-six (36) hours of work each week subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Any hours of work offered and refused by an employee will be deducted from the guarantee
(b)	Time missed due to illness or layoff of one day or more will be deducted from the guarantee
(c)	Time missed due to reasons beyond the control of the Company which prevent the Company from operating such hours will be deducted from the guarantee;
Statutory Holiday hours will be considered hours of work and will be deducted from the guarantee
Production Plant employees with less than two (2) years’ seniority, may have a normalworkweekofuptoforty (40) straighttime hours during the first two (2) years of their employment notwithstanding Article 11.02.
(a) The Chief Steward will be provided with schedules of hours for each Plant department setting forth the normal times for work to begin and end on every day in the week for the department, or for groups or individuals within the department. Except by mutual consent the hours prescribed in the schedules shall not exceed eight (8) hours daily and forty (40) hours weekly.
The daily hours prescribed in the schedules may be altered as required for the operation and improvement of the business. The Company however
23
agrees that except by mutual consent the schedule of individual employees shall not be changed without three days' notice. The requirement for three days' notice shall not apply where the change in schedule is made necessary because of absenteeism or other reasons beyond the control of the Company. In such cases the employee will be given as much notice as possible. Reasons beyond the control of the Company for purposes of this article shall be mechanical breakdown, power failure, gas service interruption,water service interruption, inclement weather delaying arrival of birds to the Plant, absence of inspectors or veterinarians. The Company will endeavour to provide greater than three (3) days notice in the event of a substantial schedule change.
On those occasions where short hours are in effect due to a shortage of available work the starting and finishing times of shifts may be altered without such changes being considered schedule changes under the provision of the above paragraphs. When advising employees of such shorter hours the Company will indicate the latest finishing time, such time will not be more than two (2) hours from the actual finish time.
(b) If the Company requires employeesto wait in the cafeteria due to delays as a result of mechanical breakdown, powerfailure, inclement weather delaying the arrival of birds to the Plant or absence of inspectors or veterinarians, the employees affected will be paid for all waiting time at their straight time hourly rate. It is understood and agreed that such employees must, if requested to do so by the Company, perform any other work during this time. The Company agrees to assign employees in accordance with Article 17.04.
11.15	A new shift may be established for the sanitation department of up to two (2) days per week, twelve (12) hours per day, twenty-four (24) hours per week. Employees regularly assigned to this shift shall be considered full time regular production employees, for purposes of Article 2.01 and Article 11.11. Article's 11.02,11.03 and 11.14 shall have no application to employees working this shift. Such shift shall be scheduled for Saturdays and Sundays.
11.16	The Union agrees to the continued operation of the 4 day by 10 hour shift in the HPP department.
Break schedules for 4 by 10 shifts shall be comprised of a 1/2 hour unpaid lunch break and three 15 minute paid breaks, spaced consistently with the principles applicable to the 8 hour break schedule.
Overtime payable to employees on 4 by 10 shifts shall be payable for hours in excess of 10 per day and for all hours worked on days other than their four regularly scheduled work days each week.
24
ARTICLE 12- DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
12.01	(a) The following days shall be observed as holidays with pay for seniority
employees. Seniority employees shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at the regular straight time hourly rate as holiday pay.
The designated holidays are:
New Year's Day Family Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
( ruiiuay
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Employee's Birthday
Floater (will be Heritage Day if legislated)
(b) If the Employee's birthday falls on a Saturday, Sunday, Statutory Holiday, or during the employee'sapproved vacation schedule, they shall be allowed an extra day off or an extra day's pay at straight time rate of pay at the employee's option. The day off to be a mutually agreed day between the employee and the Company.
12.02	Where a designated holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or the following Monday.
12.03	Effective the date of ratification Statutory holiday pay for Live Haul Drivers and Delivery Drivers shall be paid at the 592 trailer rate.
12.04	Where a Live Haul Driver works on a statutory holiday, he shall be paid two (2) times the live haul statutory holiday rate as outlined in 12.03 above, in addition to his statutory holiday pay.
12.05	An employee shall only be considered to have worked on a designated holiday if he is required to work during the period he would have worked had the designated holiday been a normal work day for the Plant.
12.06	In order to qualify for payment of any of the holidaysdesignated in Article 12.01, the employee must work at least seven (7) hours cf the scheduled shift on the declared work day immediately prior to the holiday and at least seven (7) hours cf the scheduled shift on the declared work day immediately following the holiday.
25
An employee who is otherwise eligible but fails to work the shift before or the shift following the holiday due to an absence authorized in advance by the Company shall not be disqualified from receiving holiday pay.
An employee who is otherwise eligible but fails to work the shift before or the shift following the holiday due to an injury for which Workers' Compensation is received, hospitalization or an absence authorized by the Company shall not be disqualified from receiving holiday pay.
12.07	The Company agrees to pay an employee who would otherwise qualify for designated holiday pay, but who is receiving sick leave pay or workers' compensation the difference between sick leave pay or workers compensation and the holiday pay, as the case may be. This provision, will only apply when the
12.08	Where a Delivery Driverworks on a designated holiday and is engaged in a mileage run, he shall receive two (2) times the Delivery Driver hourly rate in addition to the rate for the run.
An employee who is required by the Company to work a designated holiday shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times the employee's straight time rate of pay for all hours worked. The provisions of this Article 12.08 do not apply to an employee who has had the holiday off and starts another shift before the end of the designated holiday.
12.09	A Delivery Driver on a mileage run shall only be considered to have worked on a designated holiday if he is required to work during the period he would have worked had the designated holiday been a normal work day for the Plant.
ARTICLE 13 -VACATIONS
13.01	Employees with less than one (1) year's continuous service as of June 30th in any year shall accumulate vacation at the rate of one half (E) day per month for each full month of service from the date of their employment to June 30th in any year and shall be granted vacation pay in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act.
13.02	An employee having at least one (1) year's continuous service with the Company as of June 30th in any year shall be entitled to two (2) week's vacation with pay computed at the rate of four (4%) percent of the employee's earnings with the Company (excluding previous year's vacation pay) in the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding such June 30th.
13.03	An employee having at least five (5) years' continuous service with the Company as of June 30th in any year shall be entitled to three (3) weeks' vacation with pay
26
■	'5/
a period not ti
plan.
luuwivin to exoee
computed at the rate of six (6%) percent of the employee's earnings with the Company (excluding previous year's vacation pay) in the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding such June 30th.
13.04	An employee having at least nine (9) years' continuous service with the Company as of June 30th in any year shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay computed at the rate of eight (8%) percent of the employee's earnings with the Company (excluding previous year's vacation pay) in the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding such June 30th.
13.05	An employee having at least twenty (20) years' continuous service with the Company as of June 30th in any year shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation with pay computed at the rate of ten (10%) percent of the employee's earnings with
Company (excluding previous y&~sr’-& vacation pu $ ~n1 the twelve (12) month
LI E
period immediately preceding such June 30th.
13.06	An employee having at least twenty-five (25) years' continuous service with the Company as of June 30th in any year shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation with pay computed at the rate of twelve percent (12%) of the employee's earnings with the Company (excluding previous year's vacation pay) in the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding such June 30th.
13.07	Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Article 13, when an employee is discharged for just cause he will receive vacation pay in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
13.08	Employees shall advise the Company on the appropriate form, by January 15th, of any year of the time they prefer to take vacation during that year. The Company will advise the employees by March 1st of that year whether or not their vacation request is approved. When the Company has granted vacation, employees may exchange vacation periods only with the consent of the Company. Where there is a conflict between two (2) or more employees regarding preferred time for vacation, the Company will consider departmental seniority* in assigning the vacation subject to the Company having the right to retain enough qualified employees to perform the work. The Company will provide the Chief Steward of the Union and the Union office with a copy of the vacation schedule by February 21st. After an employee has been advised of his vacation, the Company shall not alter his vacation. Commencing with the 2010 vacation schedule process,the Night Clean, Container Wash and Janitorial groups within the Sanitation Department will be treated as separate departments for the purposes of this Article.
13,09	If a designated holiday falls within an employee'svacation period, the Company will allow the employee a compensatory day's holiday with pay or make payment for the designated holiday. Employees shall advise the Company at least two (2) weeks prior to leaving on vacation whether they wish to receive compensatory day's holiday or to be paid for the designated holiday.
27
13.10	No employee shall be granted more than two (2) weeks [ten (10) working days] vacation between June 21st and September 21st of any year. Leave requests will be considered by seniority for any time beyond the two (2) week period, with a limitation upon how often the employee may request such leave.
13.11	The Company agrees to provide the employees vacation pay on a separate direct deposit in accordance with Article 9.04.
13.12	All banked vacation pay will be paid out by July 15th of each year.
ARTICLE 14 - BULLETIN BOARDS
H A AH I	I
The Company agrees to provide the Union with twu (2)fcMiuiut>fc!d bulletin boards fur the exclusive use of the Union, one (1) in the cafeteria and one (1) in the transportation department. The Union agrees that it will use the space to post notices and information regarding the Union and its activities. Such notices shall be initiated by a designated Union official prior to posting. The Union agrees that it will not post notices containing adverse comments about the Company or its management. The Company agrees to provide the Chief Steward with a key to the cafeteria bulletin board and the transportation Stewards will be providedwith keys to the bulletin board in the transportation department.
14.02	The Union will not distribute or cause to be distributed on the property of the Company, for or on its behalf, printed matter, except with the written permission of Management.
ARTICLE 15 - CLOTHING
15.01	The Company will continue to supply aprons, hair nets, gloves and beard nets, where required and in addition launder able outer work clothing where specified by the Company. The Company will record the names of employees whose aprons disappear and should they continue to lose aprons the employee will be charged for a new apron. The Company will provide two (2) smocks daily for employees in Live Receiving. The Company agrees to provide a clean smock daily to each production employee who requests one.
15.02	The Company agrees to pay an allowance towards the purchase by employees of safety footwear for their use at work. Such allowance will be one hundred and fifty ($150.00) dollars per calendar year. The employee shall provide a receipt proving purchase of safety footwear. The Company agrees that the full amount of the allowance can be applied to multiple purchases.
15.03	(a) The Company agrees to provide freezer jackets for the use of employees
required to work in the freezer or in areas maintained below 0°C. The
28
Company will make available freezer pants for employees required to work in the freezer for extended periods of time. This provision does not include employees in and out movement in the course of their regular duties.
(b)	The Company will provide freezer gloves for freezer employees, drivers and shunters, when required. The Company further agrees to provide, upon request, two (2) hoods per year (for under hard hats) for freezer and cooler employees.
The Company agrees to supply to delivery drivers uniforms consisting of three pants, one dual purpose jacket, five shirts, five short sleeved shirts and two (2) winter parkas. Live Haul Drivers who perform delivery work one day or more per week, shall be provided with one pair of pants, one dual purpose jacket, two shirts, two short sleeved shirts and one winter parka. The uniforms shall be mandatory and paid 100% by the driver in the first year of employment. After one year the Company will pay 100% of the costs of uniforms. The wearing of all parts of the uniforms is mandatory. Jackets and parkas will include conspicuous (reflective) material.
(b)	The Company will supply two (2) types of material to drivers, light and heavy
weight for uniforms. Each driver will have a choice of the material or a combination of both for the purpose of winter or summer.
15.05	(a) Company to supply persons working in the coolers (including the Cooler VRT) with outer clothing (insulated coveralls). The employee will be required to wear the clothing supplied. Live Haul Drivers will be supplied with a pair of coveralls per day and winter parkas for yard people. The Company will launder coveralls.
(b) The Company agrees to give employees a choice on replacements of a parka or insulated coverall. The Union acknowledges that the Company will not be responsible for the laundry cf the insulated coveralls or coverall liners.
15.06	The Company will supply two (2) pairs of coveralls daily to Live Haul Drivers and thereafter on a replacement basis. The Company will supply two (2) coverall liners to Live Haul Drivers during the term of the Collective Agreement. Such liners will be given within one month of ratification. The Company will supply reflective vests for the use cf Live Haul Drivers, at their option.
15.07	The Company shall providetwo (2) rain suits peryearto each Live Haul Driverand each yard worker. The Company shall provide one (1) rain suit per year to all Delivery Drivers. Rain suits will include conspicuous (reflective) material.
15.08	Drivers who wish to wear hats will wear hats supplied by the Company. The Company will purchase two types of hats with the Maple Lodge logo for drivers in
29
the Live Haul and delivery areas. The hats will be a baseball cap and a Gatsby hat. The Company further agrees to purchase toques for the Live Haul area.
15.09	Employees in the Wiener Plant, Deli Plant, Plant 2(a) and Plant 2(b) shall be provided with quilted jackets. Consistent with 15.05(b), the Company shall not be responsible for laundering.
ARTICLE 16 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
16.01	The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees at the Plant during working hours of their employment.
16.02	The Company and the Union will name an in-Plant safety and health Committee uumprismg ui nut more umri rive (o) ivianagemeni ana Tive (5) union Representatives who are employees of the Company. Such Committee shall meet once a month. One (1) Management Representative and one (1) Union Representative who are members of the Committee shall make a safety tour of the Plant once a month. Each member of the Union Safety Committee, if available, will rotate on a monthly basis for the Plant safety tour.
The Committee will be given one hour of preparation time per month in addition to meetings, Plant tours and other duties. The Union shall select one (1) certified member from the Committee for each shift and one (1) alternate certified member from each shift to carry out the duties of a certified member. Only one (1) member per shift will be designated to carry out the duties of a certified member representing Union members.
The Company agrees to pay the cost of training certified members.
16.03	An employee who is injured at work and requires medical attention and who a doctor determines is unable to return to work shall be paid for the balance of his regular hours in the day upon which the injury occurred.
16.04	Employees injured at work will be provided with transportation to their home, or for medical attention and then back to work or home after the necessary medical attention. Thereafter the injured employee may attend their family physician if so desired.
16.05	The Company will provide an adequately equipped first aid room with a qualified attendant in charge.
16.06	For any accident in which a critical injury, as defined by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, occurs, the accident scene must be left undisturbed until it has been reviewed and released by a joint accident review Committee composed of one Management and one Union Representativeof the health and safety Committee. In the event that the health and safety Committee members are not present in the Plant, a report of the accident will be provided to the health and safety Committee in
30
place of review and release by the accident review Committee. The Company agrees that it will appoint a management health and safety Committee Representative who is working on shift work.
16.07	Where drivers identify delivery locations which they believe involve a health and safety risk, the Company will make its best efforts to resolve the problem with the customer. Where a dispute develops over the resolution of such problems, the matter will be referred to the Health and Safety Committee.
16.08	The Company agrees to make every effort to keep the weight of the boxed beef between fifty (50) lbs. to seventy-five (75) lbs.
16.09	An Accident Review Committee shall be formed, which will be a subcommittee of
TL A ■ _J_____x i—»_1___________;n	i r r
i rie MCCiaeni rseview oomminee snail
the Joint Health and Safety Committee, include two (2) Union Representatives-the Chief Steward and the Union co-chaircf the JHSC or their designates.
The Company will provide the Accident Review Committee with an up-to-date weekly report of any accidents or safety incidents in the workplace. Follow up meetings will beheld on a regular basis to discuss such accidents or incidents and means for preventing recurrences. Such meetings will generally be scheduled for one (1) hour periods.
16.10	The Company and the Union agree that non-rotation of certain jobs in some departments may pose a threat to the health and safety of those employees working in that department. The Company agrees to implement job rotation for all jobs in the Plant where rotation is discussed and required. Jobs will be rotated in a fair and equitable manner.
ARTICLE 17 - JOB TRANSFERS
17.01	The Company agrees that all permanent job openings will be posted on the designated Company bulletin boards (includingwithin the shipping and live receiving departments) for three (3) days. Employees may apply for the said opening within the three (3) days.
The Company shall include on the posting whether it is the 1st or 2nd posting and shall post the successful applicant's name.
The successful applicant will be selected in accordance with 10.09 of the Collective Agreement within five (5) working days. Job postings are limited to the original job and the first vacated job only and the Company will be under no obligation to post any job beyond what is provided for in this clause.
The Company agrees to transfer the successful applicant within fifteen (15) working days of their selection to the new job.
31
Employees transferred pursuant to Article 17,01 and new hires shall not be permitted to apply for another job posting for nine (9) months after the date of the transfer.
17.02	(a) The Company agrees to post the vacant delivery routes (runs) within the
drivers' group first, before posting Plant wide. The Company further agrees to post all vacancies within the live haul area. If such position is filled within the drivers' group, it will not be posted plant wide.
(b) The Company agrees to post vacant shipping department positions within the shipping department first, before posting plant wide. If such position is filled within the shipping department, it will not be posted plant wide.
17.03	An employee who is transferred to a different job classification within the bargaining unit shall be paid while so employed as follows:
(a)	If the transfer is for the convenience of the Company and if the rate of pay in the classification to which he is transferred is less than the employee's regular rate of pay, he shall receive his regular rate of pay.
(b)	If the transfer is for the convenience of the employee, or to enable him to avoid lay-off, and if the rate of pay in the classification to which he is transferred is less than the employee's regular rate of pay, he shall receive such lesser rate.
(c)	If the transfer is for a higher rate of classification the employee will receive the higher rate of pay.
(d)	Temporary transfers shall be deemed to be replacementsfor employees who are temporarily absent and not the movement of employees required to complete the daily production requirements.
(e)	When the Company decides to transfer employees temporarily, full consideration shall be given to seniority on a departmental basis or job classification basis.
17.04	Where the Company decides that it is necessary to transfer employees from one department or job to another and where employees asked to transfer do not volunteer to accept the transfer the Company shall have the right to transfer the most junior employee in the department who has the skill necessary to immediately perform the job. Students will be the first transferred, provided they have the skills necessary to immediately perform the job.
32
ARTICLE 18- REPORTING AND CALLOUT PAY
18.01	Except in cases of emergency, including power failure or mechanical breakdown, where notice is not possible, employees reporting for work at their regular starting time, who have not been notified not to report to work, will be offered at least four (4) hours' work or at the option of the Company four (4) hours' pay in lieu of work.
Employees absent on the previous day shall not receive payment pursuant to this Article 18.01 unless they have notified the Company that they are returning to work on that day.
18.02	Where an employee is called in to work outside his normal working hours, he shall receive four (4) hours' pay at his regular straight time rate of pay for the hours actually worked or the appropriate rate, whichever is the greater.
18.03	An employee reporting for work as designated shall receive pay from the time so designated upon reporting for work.
ARTICLE 19 - MISCELLANEOUS
19.01	In order to facilitate the intent and purpose of our Collective Agreement, the Company and the Union agree that a proper working relationship must be maintained between the Shop Stewards and the Area Foremen. In instances of normal disciplinary action the Company will endeavour to give the Area Steward an opportunity to advise employees of forthcoming discipline prior to the Foreman issuing formal discipline to the employee. The Company will inform the Union Steward of all pertinent information which is not of a confidential nature and that relates to impending discipline. The Union and the Company will work together to reduce frivolous grievances.
19.02	The Company agrees to provide the Chief Steward and the Union office with a copy of notices of discipline given to employees. Such notice will indicate the reason for which the discipline is being imposed.
19.03	Prior to the implementation of any new jobs, the Company will inform the Union of the newjob and the proposed rate. The Company agrees to meet within 10 days with the Union to allow them to make representations to the said job and rate if so requested.
19.04	Lead Hand shall be defined as a person who performs work and transmits orders and shall have no authority to hire, fire, or discipline other employees or to recommend the same and shall be a Union member. The Company may appoint temporary lead hands, at its discretion, for up to two (2) weeks, without triggering the posting requirements.
33
19.05	Employees are to scan their own scan cards, no other employee or member of management is to scan an employee's scan card.
19.06	All employees are responsible for keeping Personnel informed of their correct address, phone number, beneficiary, dependant coverages, persons to notify in case of accident or illness, change in marital status, Ontario Health Number and Social Insurance number, and are responsible for notifying Personnel of any changes.
19.07	During negotiations the Company expressed its concern about absenteeism. Employees recognize that regular attendance on their part is required to allow the Company to operate.
Ann/^i c fin r\ni\/rn^ «n nvsi-c £.\J — univcno
20.01	(a) A Delivery Driver who completes twelve (12)continuous hours of work or
longer and who is still further than 120 km from the Plant shall advise dispatch. Dispatch shall, at its discretion, advise the employee to book off and engage lodging or advise the employee that a relief driver will be sent to meet the Delivery Driver at the Delivery Driver's location following the thirteenth (13th) continuous hour of work.
(b)	A Live Haul Driverwho finds it necessaryto rest after leaving the farm for the return trip to the Company may stop for up to Vz hour. Any stops in excess of 1/2 hour must be reported to the Driver's Dispatcher.
20.02	Drivers will be permitted to take an unpaid lunch period of up to thirty (30) minutes during their shift.
20.03	Where possible the Company will provide help to Live Haul Drivers in loading trailers at the farm.
20.04	Delivery Drivers required to make deliveries with trailers shall be given help after mutual agreement between Driver and the Company.
20.05	The Company agrees to pay the cost of parking tickets incurred by Drivers where delivery was not possible otherwise.
20.06	Live Haul Drivers drawing birds from the U.S. and requiredto lay over will receive the 592 trailer rate for each day of lay-over.
20.07	Drivers required to lay over overnight will receive a lay-over allowance of thirty-seven dollars and eighty seven cents ($37.87). Effective October 13,2011 the rate shall increase to thirty eight dollars and thirty nine cents ($38.39).
34
20.08	The Company and the Union agree that drivers will operate all Company vehicles within reasonable confines of the law. The Union agrees that no Driverwill operate a Company vehicle in excess of posted speed limitsto a maximum of one hundred kilometres (100 km) per hour. The Union further agrees that no driverwill operate any equipment owned by a customer or a grower.
20.09	Drivers from the Live Haul Driver group who wish to perform extra work (doubles) shall advise dispatch and shall be placed on a rotation list. The loads will be rotated among the drivers on the list. If a driver is unable to perform a double run, the driver will advise dispatch at least (12) hours in advance.
20.10	All Live Haul Driversto call dispatch during business hours (prior to 4:30 p.m.) for loads that night. Sunday night loads' driversto call dispatch prior to 4:30 p.m. on Fridays.
20.11	Any driver involved in more than one preventable accident in any six (6) month period will be removed from driving and will work in the yard at the corresponding rate for a period of one week for re-training. The provisions of this Article shall apply to the first such incident of more than one minor accident within six (6) months.
20.12	Live Haul Drivers required to wait at farms for more than VA> hours will be paid the current delivery driver tractor trailer hourly rate for the time in excess of VA hours.
When a Live Haul driver breaks down and is required to stay on duty, he shall be paid the current delivery driver tractor trailer hourly rate for all hours he is on duty during the breakdown. If the driver on breakdown is not required to stay on duty he shall book off and seek accommodation and will be paid the driver lay-over rate of (592 trailer rate) for each day of the lay-over because of the breakdown unless relieved and returned to the Company's Plant.
20.13	Drivers shall be supplied with accident report forms and incident report forms. They will be completed on request.
20.14	Highway drivers required to make a pick up shall receive twenty-two dollars and seventy nine cents ($22.79)for that pickup. Effective October 13, 2011, the rate shall become twenty-three dollars and eleven cents ($23.11).
20.15	Highway drivers required to wait for a pick-up shall be paid for all waiting time in excess of one (1) hour at the applicable driver's rate.
20.16	The Company agrees that where a driver is assigned a load with few calls, and is required to do a second load, that driver will be advised prior to commencing the first load.
35
20.17	When it takes more than three (3) hours to load fowl at a farm (excluding waiting time), the effected live haul driver shall be paid at the current delivery driver tractor trailer hourly rate for the loading time in excess of three hours.
ARTICLE 21 - BENEFITS
21.01	Company payment of the premiums for the insurance plans described in this Article 21 is conditional upon the employee performing work for the Company during the month in which the premiums fall due. In the case of an employee who is absent and receiving accident and sickness benefits or Worker's Compensation, the Company will continue to pay insurance premiums that fall due for a maximum period of twelve (12) months beyond the month in which the employee last performed work for the Company.
21.02	The Company may elect at some future date to transfer the underwriting and administration of one or more of these benefit plans provided for in this Article 21 to another insurance carrier with the understanding that in this event the benefits that will be provided by the new carrier will be similar or substantially similar to those in effect.
21.03	If the Federal or Provincial Government brings into operation any insurance plan which provides benefits which are similar or substantially similar to those offered at present to employees of the Company and such coverage is available to employees on a voluntary or compulsory basis, the Company reserves the rightto discontinue or modify the affected insurance provided for in this Article 21 so as to establish a new plan with benefits not less favourable or to cease its contributions altogether should the Government plan to take over the particular field of insurance.
21.04	It is understood and agreed that the cost of the benefit program paid by the Company provided in this Article 21 is in lieu of any employee entitlement to rebate under the Unemployment Insurance Act and the Company is entitled to all money rebated.
21.05	The benefits and insurance plans referred to in this Article 21 are necessarily qualified in their entirety by references to the underlying policies of contracts issued in respect hereof by an insurance agency or government agency shall be controlling in all matters pertaining to qualification of employees for benefits there under and in all matters pertaining to the exercise and extent of benefits and conditions.
21.06	The Company agrees to pay for a benefit package for its employees under the age cf seventy (70) consisting of the following:
Life Insurance
(a) Self
$40,000
36
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment	$40,000
(c)	Spouse	$10,000
(d)	Dependent Children	$5,000
(e)	The Company agrees to provide for all bargaining unit employees a weekly indemnity program to cover first day of accident or hospitalization and fourth day of sickness for a maximum of 26 weeks of total disability payable at 60% of employee's insurable earnings up to the unemployment maximum benefit.
Life Insurance and AD & D payable to employees age 65 to 69 shall be 50 percent of amounts in 21.06(a) and(b). No Life Insurance and AD & D shall be payable for
^7i i	aye? ocvci ny	vj ui ovci
Dental
(f)	Subject to the conditions below, the Company will recommence payment of dental benefit premiums for employees:
|(i)	The Company or an insurer that if designates shall be provided with
information regarding lifetime benefits utilized by bargaining unit members and their families by the UFCW Trusteed Dental Plan and/or the Prudent Benefits Administration Services Inc.
(ii)	Employees shall continue to be enrolled in the UFCW Trusteed Dental Plan until the information referenced in (i) is provided to the Company or its insurer and until the 1st of the month that is 30 or more days thereafter. The Company shall continue to pay the UFCW Trusteed Dental Plan at the rates applicable in the 2006 to 2009 Collective Agreement until such date.
(iii)	In 2010, benefits shall be provided based on the 2008 ODA schedule. In 2011, benefits shall be provided based on the 2009 ODA schedule. In 2012, benefits shall be provided on the 2010 ODA schedule.
(iv)	As per the Collective Agreement expiring in 2006, non probationary employees with less than one year's service shall pay 25 percent of dental premiums. Employees with a year or more of service shall not be required to contribute to premiums.
(v)	The Company's insurance provider will permit electronic transfer of billings information directly from dental offices.
37
(vi)	Benefits provided and terms of the plan shall otherwise remain as provided under the UFCW Trusteed Dental Plan as of October 13, 2009, subject to the Company’s right, in its sole discretion, to provide greater benefits.
The Company will supply a Major Medical Program for all employees. The Major Medical Program will include an optical plan that will pay up to two hundred and twenty-five ($225.00) dollars every 24 months for employees and dependents. Effective October 13,2008 the optical plan will pay up two hundred and fifty ($250.00) dollars every 24 months for employees and dependents.
On or before March 1, 2001, the Company will implement a generic drug
card plan, to include
■Vt rt I An 11< T
i j icuiucuiy
iscGSSciry proscription
^ ..___.
uiuyiD,
n.___
oscnption
drugs shall be defined as drugs and medicines that can only be obtained through a written prescription by a physician, surgeon or dentist. The dispensing fee shall be capped at seven dollars ($7.00) per prescription. Brand name drugs are covered under the plan in cases where, for medical reasons, the physician, surgeon or dentist specifically states no substitution on the prescription.
Effective October 13, 2006, the Company agrees to contribute 65 cents per hour per employee to a maximum of forty hours per week fo the C.C.W.I.P.P. Effective October 13, 2008, the Company agrees to contribute 70 cents per hour per employee to a maximum of forty hours perweek to the C.C.W.I.P.P. The Company further agreesto sign a C.C.W.I.P.P. ParticipationAgreement.
Stabilization Fund
Effective December 10, 2009, the Company will contribute $265,000 toward the Stabilization Fund established pursuant to C.C.W.I.P.P.
Effective October 13,2010, the Company will contribute$265,000 toward the Stabilization Fund established pursuantto C.C.W.I.P.P.
Effective October 13,2011, the Company will contribute$265,000 toward the Stabilization Fund established pursuantto C.C.W.I.P.P.
The Company will furthermore continue contributions to C.C.W.I.P.P. required pursuant to Article 21.06 (h) of the Collective Agreement. The C.C.W.I.P.P. trustees may allocate such portion cf said payment to the Stabilization Fund as they determine appropriate in accordance with their fiduciary obligations.
38
If, in accordance with a directive by or agreement of the Financial Services Commission of Ontario, the Stabilization Fund is discontinued, then the above noted payments may be allocated within C.C.W.l.P.P., by the C.C.W.l.P.P, trustees, in accordance with theirfidicuary duties, to the benefit of employee members of the Company.
21.07	Training and Education Trust Fund
The Company agrees to contribute $40,000 peryear in twelve (12) equal payments to the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 175, Training and Education Fund. The Company shall forward the contributions every month to the Union.
21.03 The Company agreesto contribute one thousand dollars ($1000) toward the cost of printing of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 22 - RELATIONSHIPS AND COMMUNICATIONS
22.01	The parties to this Agreement recognize that a working environment in which there is mutual respect for the concerns and needs of employees, the Union and the Company is in all of their interest. In order to encourage the development and maintenance of such a work environment, the parties agree to the provisions of this Article 22.
22.02	The Company agrees that part cf the creation and maintenance of the appropriate work environment requires proper treatment of employees by all members of Company management. The Company agrees that supervisors and their management persons must deal with employees in a manner which indicates a recognition of the principle expressed in Article 22.01.
22.03	The Union recognizes that the Company in its management have needs, concerns and obligations which must be recognized.
22.04	The parties recognize that because of the cultural and ethnic diversity of the work force and Company management, problems can result from misunderstandings and communication difficulties. The Company and the Union agree that they and their representatives have an obligation to make every reasonable effort to deal with such problems before they require use of the grievance procedure contained in this Agreement.
22.05	In order to ensure ongoing communication between the parties,the parties agree to the creation of the following:
(a) Departmental Union management Committees for each department, such Committeesto consist cf the mutually agreed number of Union Stewards and Company department supervisors from each department to meet at such
39
times as the Committee members mutually agree. Such Committee meetings to be attended by the Chief Steward and a Representative of the Personnel Department. Such meetings will be held in the Plant.
Company/Union Management Meetings - Such Committee to consist of a mutually agreed number of Union Stewards including the Chief Steward and senior Company Management to meet every three months or at such time as the Committee mutually agrees. The Union staff Representative servicing the bargaining unit will be invited to attend the meetings of the Committee. Such meetings will be held outside the Plant.
The purpose of the Committees referred to above is to foster communication between the parties to the Agreement and to identify problems which either cf the parties perceives with a view to creating and maintaining the working environment referred to in Article 22.01.
The parties agree that the success of such Committee meetings requires that the parties feel free to openly discuss issues. To ensure such openness, the parties agree that matters discussed in such meetings shall be considered privileged. The matters discussed and statements made will not be referred to or become evidence in any hearing before any tribunal in which the parties are adversaries. The parties further agree that there are formal grievance procedures contained in the Collective Agreement and the Committees referred to above are not intended nor are they to be used to settle grievances filed under the grievance procedure. Employees will not lose pay as a result of attendance at such meetings.
Minutes of such meetings will be posted. Such meetings will indicate what issues were discussed and what if any resolution was reached. Such minutes will not indicate the content of discussions.
22.06	The Company recognizes that the Union and employees have expressed concern about the frequency of the Company's use of letters of discipline. While the Company reserves the right to discipline employees for just cause, it recognizesthe concern of the Union and employees. The Company agrees to review its disciplinary procedures to ensure that the use of the letters is consistent with the principle expressed in Article 22,01 above. The Company will meet with the Union Representatives prior to implementing any changes in the process in order to get their views as to how the process could be improved.
40
ARTICLE 23 - DURATION
23.01	This Agreement shall become effective on the 13th day of October 2009 and shall remain in full force and effect until the 12th day of October 2012 and shall continue automatically thereafter during annual periods of one (1) year each, unless either party notifies the other party in writing as provided for in Article 23.02 cf its desire to negotiate amendments to this Agreement.
23.02	Notice that amendments are required shall only be given during the period of not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the 12th day of October 2012, or similar periods thereof. If notice of desire to amend this Agreement is given by either party in accordance with the foregoing, the other party agrees to meet for the purposes of negotiations.
DATED AT	. THIS b ^ DAY OF	____________, 20/ a .
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LIMITED
HjElfatTBe t
NADIA CLEMENTS
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORI^RS^ANADA, LOCAL 175,
AM^RICO CIRORGIAO LINO FERREIRA
AIDAJENEZA PAULA VU .
MATT DAVENPORT
41
APPENDIX ’A’
WAGE RATES - PLANT October 13, 2008
Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Group 4 Groups Group 6 Group 7
WAGE RATES-SHIPPING
Group 1
WAGE RATES - PLANT
Group 1	General Help
Group 2	Crops
Group 3 Vacuum Gun Operator Offal Operator Draw Viscera (by hand)
Retail Shipping Mixer Operator Peeler Operator
Group 4	Live Hanger
Live Haul Shunter
Groups	Cooler
Group 6	Night Clean Up
Group 7	Rotators
42
PROGRESSION
START	2 MOS	4 MOS
15.36	16.26	17.17
15.36	16.26	17.17
15.36	16.26	17.17
15.63	16.55	17.47
15.51	16.43	17.34
15.56	16.48	17.39
16.01	16.95	17.89
PROGRESSION
16.02	16.97	17.91
6 MOS
18.07
18.07
18.07 18.39 18.25 18.31 18.83
18.85
18.07
18.07
18.07
18.39
18.25
18.31
18.83
PLANT NEW FURTHER PROCESSING		
Group 1	General Help	18,07
Group 2	Mixer Operator	18.07
	Peeler Operator	18.07
SHIPPING DEPARTMENT		
Group 1	Shippers	18.85
LEAD HAND PREMIUMS io be $1,00 per hour above ihe highest classification in the department.
43
APPENDIX "B“
DELIVERY DRIVERS- MILEAGE RUNS
Effective October 13. 2008
(a)	Straight Truck (M2)	25,60 cents km
(40.90/m)
Tractor trailer (M1)	27.60 cents km
(44.2/m)
(b)	Tonnage Rate OR
Drop Rate	4.70
Whichever yields higher dollar value
*Drop rate is defined as per stop as opposed to per invoice
(c)	Pick Up Rates
(d)	Drivers' overnight rate
(e)	Down Time
STARTING RATE FOR DELIVERY DRIVERS
START
85%
Delivery Drivers	16.41
(Straight)
Delivery Drivers	16.88
(Trailer)
LIVE HAUL DRIVERS' RATES
Crate rate provided below for trips up to 900 kms in length
22.79
37.87
Pay hourly rate
2 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS
90%	95%	100%
17.37	18.34	19.30
17.87	18.87	19.86
# CRATES
WAGES
392
592
776
142.79
219.35
283,52
44
On trips of 900 kilometres or more, the above crate rate and the applicable kilometre rate
for kilometres beyond 900.
"Dolly trailer" is classified at five ninety two (592) trailer rate.
12.71 per load to be paid to drivers of solid top live haul trailers.
Above rates apply after 6 month seniority.
STARTING RATES: for new drivers hired to be: 85% of rates as listed above. Progression to be 5% every 2 months until top rate is reached.
START	2 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS
85%	90%	95%	100%
DRIVERS' RATE- LIVE HAUL MILEAGE RUNS
Driving
30.30 cents km
Loading
$79.44
45
APPENDIX ’A’
WAGE RATES - PLANT October 13, 2011
Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Group 4 Group 5 Group 6 Group 7
WAGE RATES -SHIPPING
Group 1
WAGE RATES - PLANT
Group 1	General Help
Group 2	Crops
Group 3 Vacuum Gun Operator Offal Operator Draw Viscera (by hand)
Retail Shipping Mixer Operator Peeler Operator
Group 4	Live Hanger
Live Haul Shunter
Groups	Cooler
Group 6	Night Clean Up
Group?	Rotators
46
PROGRESSION
START	2 MOS	4 MOS
15.57	16.49	17.40
15.57	16.49	17.40
15.57	16.49	17.40
15.84	16.78	17.71
15.73	16.65	17.58
15.78	16.70	17.63
16.22	17.17	18.13
PROGRESSION 16.24	17.19	18.15
6 MOS
18.32
18.32
18.32 18.64 18.50 18.56 19.08
19.10
18.32
18.32
18.32
18.64
18.50
18.56
19.08
PLANT NEW FURTHER PROCESSING
Group 1 General Help	18.32
Group 2 Mixer Operator	18.32
Peeler Operator	18.32
SHIPPING DEPARTMENT	
Group 1 Shippers	19.10
LEAD HAND PREMIUMS to be $1.00 per hour above the highest classification in the department.
47
APPENDIX "B"
DELIVERY DRIVERS - MILEAGE RUNS
(a) Straight Truck (M2) Tractor trailer (M1)
Effective October 13, 2011
0.260 cents km 0.280 cents km
(b)
Tonnage Rate OR
Drop Rate Whichever yields higher dollar value
4.77
"Drop rate is defined as per stop as opposed to per invoice
(C)	Pick Up Rates	23.11
(d)	Drivers' overnight rate	38.39
(e)	Down Time	Pay hourly rate
STARTING RATE FOR DELIVERY DRIVERS
START
85% 16.62
Delivery Drivers (Straight)
Delivery Drivers (Trailer)
17.09
2 MOS
90%
17.60
18,10
4 MOS
95%
18.57
19.10
LIVE HAUL DRIVERS' RATES
Crate rate provided below for trips up to 900 kms in length
# CRATES	WAGES
392
592
776
144.77
222.39
287.44
6 MOS
100%
19.55
20.11
48
On trips of 900 kilometres or more, the above crate rate and the applicable kilometre rate
for kilometres beyond 900.
"Dolly trailer" is classified at five ninety two (592) trailer rate.
12.71 per load to be paid to drivers of solid top live haul trailers.
Above rates apply after 6 month seniority.
STARTING RATES: for new drivers hired to be: 85% of rates as listed above. Progression to be 5% every 2 months until top rate is reached.
START	2 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS
85%	90%	95%	100%
DRIVERS' RATE - LIVE HAUL MILEAGE RUNS
Driving	Loading
30.70 cents km	$80.54
49
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: LOAD BARS
The Company agrees to install load bars on all existing and new delivery trucks where missing. Company further agrees to replace all damaged load bars.
FOR THE COMPANY Maple Lodge Farms Ltd
FOR THE UNION UFCW Local 175
50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: HEATED MIRRORS
The Company agrees that all new trucks will have heated mirrors and agrees that when replacing broken mirrors on the existing trucks that heated mirrors will be installed.
FOR THE COMPANY Maple Lodge Farms Ltd
FOR THE UNION UFCW Local 175
51
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: PUMP JACKS
The Company agrees to provide and maintain twenty (20) working pump jacks for the exclusive use of the delivery department.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd.	UFCW Local 175
52
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: AIR CONDITIONING UNITS
The Company agrees to service and maintain existing air conditioning units.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd.	IJFCW Local 175
53
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#5
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: UFCW LEUKEMIA FUND
The Company agrees to deduct once during the month cf May from each employee's pay an amount of ten (10) dollars and forward said deductionsto UFCW Local 175 bythe end of May. The Company agrees to match such deduction to a maximum of $5,000.00 and forward same to the Union office along with the employees' deductions. The amount forwarded shall be donated to the UFCW Leukemia Fund.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd
UFCW Local 175
54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #6
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: DELIVERY DRIVERS
Consistent with the second paragraph of Article 11.15(a) cf the CollectiveAgreement, the parties agree that where it is necessary to change the start time for Delivery Drivers, the Company agrees to advise the Delivery Driver at the end of his preceding shift, rather than three days in advance.
The second paragraph of Article 11.15(a) shall otherwise apply to Delivery Drivers.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd.	UFCW Local 175
55
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #7
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: STUDENTS
The Company and the Union agree that the practice with respect to the use of students and employees regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week, shall continue.
The Company further agrees that it will not regularly employ students and employees regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week for more than twenty-four (24) hours per week outside the school vacation period.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd
UFCW Local 175
56
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #8
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: RETURNABLE CONTAINER DELIVERIES
The Company agrees to pay, on returnable container deliveries, on product codes 3023, 3103, 3104, 3105 and 3107, as those product codes may be amended from time to time, as follows:
a)	one to nine containers - drop rate;
b)	ten to twenty-nine containers - one half (Vfc) hour pay at the applicable driver's rate;
c)	thirty or more containers- one (1) hour pay at the applicable driver's rate.
The above applies to mileage runs only. It is the intent of the parties in this provision to continue the present practice.
FOR THE COMPANY Maple Lodge Farms Ltd
FOR THE UNION UFCW Local 175
57
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #9
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: TRIAL PERIODS FOR SUCCESSFUL JOB POSTING CANDIDATES
Successful job posting candidates shall be placed on a one (1) week trial period. If the employee decides that he/she does not wish to continue in the position, or if the employee or management concludes that the employee is not able to satisfactorily perform the position, the employee shall be returned to their former position and wage without loss of seniority.
Management shall not act arbitrarily in exercising its discretion to conclude an employee is not able to satisfactorily perform the position.
If the first candidate does not retain the position following the trial period, a second candidate will be offered the position from the applicants and the same procedure shall apply.
If the second candidate does not retain the position following the trial period, then the Company shall be entitled to hire a new employee for the position. During the trial period, management may use temporary employees to fill the vacated position.
Employees who successfully post for a position, but then do not retain the position following the trial period shall not be permitted to apply for another job posting for nine (9) months after the date of posting.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd.	UFCW Local 175
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #10
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: TIME LIMITS FOR FILING FOR ARBITRATION
In view of the parties’ history of amiable Labour Relations, the parties agree to the following:
That neither party shall raise or proceed with a timeliness issue argument regarding “filing for arbitration” without first giving the other party written prior notice of its intent to do so.
Should either party serve such notice on the other party the parties further agree that the final time frame in the Collective Agreement respecting “filing for arbitration” shall then be triggered.
The parties further agree that any Board of Arbitration or single arbitrator shall have full jurisdiction to adjudicate the matter respecting timeliness in light of this agreement and shall not be restricted by the Ontario Labour Relations Act in so doing.
FOR THE COMPANY Maple Lodge Farms Ltd
FOR THE UNION UFGW Local 175
59
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #11
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
The parties are agreed that, notwithstanding the hours of work and overtime provisions cf the Collective Agreement, the Sanitation Shift Schedule in effect on ratification cf the Collective Agreement may be maintained throughout its term and shall not constitute a violation of the Collective Agreement. Any grievance, complaint or dispute on behalf of any employee complaining that the sanitation shift schedule is not in compliance with the Collective Agreement shall not constitute a difference between the parties and shall not be arbitrable.
FOR THE COMPANY Maple Lodge Farms Ltd
FOR THE UNION UFCW Local 175
60
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #12
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD,
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: SHIPPING
Heaters and dock seals in the shipping area will be maintained in a good state of repair and shall be utilized during the cold weather.
FOR THE COMPANY Maple Lodge Farms Ltd
FOR THE UNION UFCW Local 175
61
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #13
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: START TIMES
Paid time for production employees starts on the production line and not with dressing and pre-production wash-up.
FOR THE COMPANY Maple Lodge Farms Ltd
FOR THE UNION UFCW Local 175
62
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #14
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: ERGONOMIC COMMITTEE
The Company may continue the operation of the Ergonomic Committee and may determine work areas covered by the Committee as well as the number of employees involved in the Committee. The Union may select the employee Representativeson such
Committee.
FORTHE COMPANY Maple Lodge Farms Ltd
FOR THE UNION UFCW Local 175
63
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #15
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: RETAIL SHIPPERS
The parties agree to incorporatethe substance of paragraphs3, 4, 5,6, 7,8, 9,10,11, 13, 17,18, and 19 of the Retail Shippers Minutes df Settlement dated November 10,2C
FOR THE COMPANY Maple Lodge Farms Ltd.
FOR THE UNION UFCW Local 175
64
(N ^
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #16
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: SHIPPING OVERTIME
The parties agree to incorporate the Shipping Overtime Protocol as an exception to Article 11.07(b).
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd
UFCW Local 175
65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #17
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: NO LAYOFF
The Company agrees that the above noted terms have been agreed upon in order to provide the Company with an opportunity to assess whether it can operate a transportation department in a cost effective manner at a competitive cost. The Company therefore agrees that during the first year of the Collective Agreement, no driver, employed as of the ratification date, will be subject to indefinite layoff as a result of a decision to contract out delivery or live haul work. Nothing in this provision precludes a temporary layoff due to shortage of work.
This "no layoff" Letter of Understanding shall expire effective October 12, 2010.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd,	UFCW Local 175
66
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #18
BETWEEN
MAPLE LODGE FARMS LTD.
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA,
LOCAL 175
RE: DOWNSIZING OR ELIMINATING TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT
If, notwithstanding the above noted terms, the Company decides to permanentlydownsize or eliminate its transportation department, drivers will not be required to exercise seniority rights to bump into the Plant unless they wish to do so; instead, they will have the option of accepting a termination of their employment and immediately receiving severance pay following waiver of recall rights. The severance pay entitlement for any driver laid off and waiving recall rights during the term of the Collective Agreement shall be two weeks per year of service, to a maximum of 52 weeks. A driver’s “weekly” rate of pay shall be calculated by dividing the driver’sT4 income for the previously completed calendar year by 52. This payment shall be inclusive of and in satisfaction of statutory notice, pay in lieu of notice and severance pay entitlements.
Drivers who have their employment terminated in accordance with this Letter of Understanding shall continue to be covered by the benefit plans referenced in the Collective Agreement until the earlier of three months after their termination date or the date they secure alternative employment.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Maple Lodge Farms Ltd.	UFCW Local 175
67