COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
^MAPLE LEAF MEATS INC. 150 Bartor Road Weston, Ontario
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO-CLC Locals 1 75 and 63 3
Expiry Date: January 14, 2004
o o ^ea (
- i -
TABLE OF COUNTS
ARTICLE 1 - RECO GNITION........................................... 1
ARTICLE 2 - NO S^TRIKE - NO LOCK-OUT...............................2
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY-.........................................2
ARTICLE4-GREVANCE^ANDARBITRATION....................................4
ARTICLE 5 - STEWARDS............................................... 6
ARTICLE 6 - DISC-A3ION .............................................6
ARTICLE 7 -	^SAND TOOLS.......................................7
ARTICLE 8 - WO^RKERS' COMPENSATION................................. 7
ARTICLE 9 - HOURSOF WORK............................................7
ARTICLE 10 - OVERTilvIB............................................ 8
ARTICLE 11 - OFF SI-IFT ^AND S^UNDAYPRE^.l\fiUM.....................9
ARTICLE 12 - REST PERIODS.......................................... 9
ARTICLE 13 - RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS....................................9
ARTICLE 14 -VACATION.............................................. 10
ARTICLE 15 - SENIORITY............................................ 10
ARTICLE 16 - PROMOTION............................................ 12
ARTICLE 17. DEMOTION.............................................. 13
ARTICLE 18 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE..................................... 13
ARTICLE 19 -^^1HAND WELFARE........................................14
ARTICLE20-BEREAVEMPNTPAY.......................................... 16
ARTICLE21 - WO^RKINGCONDITIONS.....................................16
ARTICLE22 -UNION LABEL............................................ 16
ARTICLE 23 -UNION SHOP CARDS.
16
- u-
.\RTICLE 24-CO-OPERATION............................................. 16
ARTICLE 25. H^otJRI,YRATES OF PAY.....................................16
ARTICLE 26 -"TERM OF AG^^^OT..........................................18
LEXERS OF UNDERSTLANDING...........................................19 -23
MEMO^RANDUM OF AG^^^OT................................................24
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT between
-1 -
MAPLE LEAF MEATS INC.
150 Bartor Road,
Weston, Ontario
(hereinafter called "the Company")
-and-
^FODAND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO-CLC, Locals'l75 and633 Chartered By the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen ofNorth America, AFL-CIO-CLC (hereinafter called "theUnion")
WI^TNESSETH:
The Company and the Union hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1- RECOGNITION
1.01 The Company recognizes the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 175 and 633, as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees of the Company in its plant in the Province of Ontario, save and except foremen, supervisorypersons above the rank of foreman or supervisory office, clerical and sales staf, plant protection persons and brokers.
1.02 The Company agrees not to bargain individually or collectively with its employees.
1.03	Subject to the following conditions, the Company may employ part-time employees who will not be entitled to the provisions of Articles 9 to 20 inclusive and Article 25 of this Agreement:
(a)	A part-time employee may only work in excess of 24 hours per week during the time period between April l 5lh and September 15lh.
(b)	Hours worked by part-time employees should not exceed 35% of the total number of hours worked by all employees in the plant in any calendar quarter.
(c)	A full-time employee who was hired prior to March 1, 1999 will not lose full-time employment as a result of his/her specific full-timejob being split into the work of two part-time employees.
(d)	A full-time employee not be sent home prior to his/her scheduled quitting time unless all part-time employees who are working on the same shift in the same department have been sent home provided that the full-time employee can-perform the work that the part-time employee is performing.
(e)	Part-time employees will be paid $9.00 per hour.
-2-
(t) Part-time employees will be paid S13.5O per hour for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per shift.
(g)	Part-time employees will be paid statutory holiday pay and vacation pay in accordance with the provisions of Ontario legislation.
(h)	Part-time employees will not have part-time seniority until they have worked 1040 hours. Their name will then be added to the part-time seniority list which will be separate and distinct from the seniority list for full-time employees.
(i)	Provided that they can perform the required work, part-time employees will be given additional hours of work, in order of their part-time seniority. This will be limited to a maximum of 24 hours except between April 15lh and September 1 5lh.
1.04 The Company shall employ in its plant only members in good standing in the Union.
1.05	The Union will be advised of promotions of employees out of the bargaining unit. If an employee is promoted to a position outside the bargaining unit for a period of more ^an nine (9) months, the Company agrees that such person shall re-enter the bargaining unit as a new employee except he/she shall receive full credit for vacation entitlement.
1.06	Employees excluded from the bargaining unit will not perform the work which is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except for ^^un.g, or where such work is for the p^pese of investigation or experimentation.
1.07 The Union reco^becs that the Company has the exclusive right to ^^ge the business provided, however, that any such exercise of this right which is in conflict with any of the provisions of the other Articles of this Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance and arbitration procedures.
1.08	The Company agrees that if it becomes necessary to move any production line out of the Bartor Road Plant, the Company will meet with the Union, prior to the moving of such line.
ARTICLE 2 - NO S'^^- NO LOCK-OUT
2.01	The Union and the Company agree that there shall be no strikes or lock-outs as long as this Agreement continues to operate.
ARTICLE 3 -BUNION SECURITY
3.01	Subject to the provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act, it is agreed that all employees covered by this Agreement shall become members and remain members of the Union in good standing as a condition of employment.
3.02	The Company agrees that each employee, upen employment and completion of his/her probatio^^ period of employment will be required to sign cn authorization card directing the Company to deduct Union initiation fees and weekly dues from the first pay due and such dues weekly thereafter. Any such authorization shall take effect as of the next regular
-3-
deduction date it is received by the Company. The fees and dues shall be forwarded to the Union monthly by the 15th of the followingmonth.
3.03	The Union shall inform the Company, by Mitten certification, of the amounts of weekly Union Dues according to the most recent such certification received. Such certification shall be given to the Company at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the effective date of any change.
3.04 The Company will, at the time of making such remittance hereunder to the Financial Secretary of the Union, to United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, 2200 Argentia ^Road, lvfississauga, 'Ontario, LSN 2K7, supply a statement showing the following information from whom pay deductions have made.
(a)	All monthly dues for members to be submitted in alphabetical order with curent address, postal code and Social InsuranceNumber.
(b)	Twelve (12) check-offs per year (Calendar months).
(c)	Monthly - New members to be listed in alphabetical order with Social Insurance Number and date of hire and starting rate.
Terminations or Resignations - to be listed in alphabetical order with current address, postal code, Social Insurance Number and date of termination or resignation.
Addresses to be updated as well as name changes, i.e.,mariage and transfers, from one local to another to keep records curent.
(d) Each employee is responsible for promptly notifying the	Resources Dep^artment of the Company in Miting of any change of name, address, phone number, marital status.
3.05	The Union shall indemnify and save h^less the Company, its agents and/or employees acting on behalf of the Company from any and al claims, demands, actions or causes of action arising out of or in any way connected with the collection of such dues and initiation fees for Union members only.
3.06 (a)	No p^anent employee shall be discharged or disciplined without good and sufficient
cause.
(b)	(i) The Company agrees that whenever an interview is held with an employee that becomes purt of his/her record regarding working conduct, the Steward will be present as a witness. The employee may request that the Steward leave the meeting.
(ii)	Jn the event the Steward is not present, the condition will be brought to the attention of the employee. The meeting that becomes purt of the employee's record will be postponed until the Steward is available.
(iii)	If the meeting is heid without the Steward, any conclusion, verbal or Mitten, will be null and void except when the employee requests the steward to leave.
-4-
(iv)	In the event a Steward has not been designated by the Union for the area as provided in clause 5.01, then the meeting between the employee and the Company representative shall be considered valid and becomes part of the employee's record.
(c)	As of the effective of this ^^^ment, written W^arning Notices on an employee's record are to be withdrawn one (1) year, provided there are no further W^arningNotices given during the above-mentioned one ( 1) year period.
3.07	The Company agrees to send to the Union Office a complete seniority list with rates of pay, every three (3) months.	•
ARTICLE 4 • GRIEVANCE^TO ^ARBITRATION
4.01	The grievance procedure is designed to adjust complaints and grievances in an orderly manner and as quickly as possible. Any dispute or difference of opinion concerning the interpretation, application or alleged violation of a specificprovision of this Agreement shall constitute a grievance.
4.02	For a grievanceto be considered and processed under this Article, it must be presented, in writing, within seven (7) calendar days after the alleged incident occurred.
4.03	Step 1. The aggrieved employee shall present his/her written grievance to the Department Supervisor and a meeting will be held between the Dep^rnient Supervisor and/or Superintendent, the grievor and the Steward. If the Company does not arrange to hold a meeting within five (5) working days following request for such meeting, the grievance will be dealt with at the following step should either party so desire.
The Department Superintendentwill give an answer, in writing, within five (5) working days. The grievance may be processed to Step 2 any time within five (5) working days thereafter.
Step 2. (a) The aggrieved employee may present his/her written grievance to the Plant Manager. A meeting will be held with management representatives, the grievor, Steward and/or Chief Steward and/or the Business Representative. If the Company does not arrange to hold a meeting within 5 working days following request for such meeting, the grievance shall be dealt with at the following step should either party so desire, except that the five day period may be extended to ten days should the Company or Union so request.
The Plant Manager or his/her designate shall give a reply, in writing, within five (5) working days of the Step 2 meeting. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached within five (5) working days thereafter, the grievance may be referred to a Board of Arbitration, as provided in Step 3, any time within thirty (30) calendar days thereafter. If the grievance is not taken to arbitration as herein provided, the grievance shall be deemed to have been settled at the conclusion of Step 2, with the decision of the Plant Manager or his/her designate being final and binding on the Union, the Company and the grievor.
-5-
The time limits as prescribed above in Steps 1 and 2 may be modified by mutual agreement, in writing of the Company and the Union.
(b)	The Company and the Union agree that either party has the right to file a policy grievance that may begin at Step 2.
Discharge or Suspension. In the case of a discharge or suspension, a grievance may be filed at Step 2 by an employee who feels he/she was unjustly dealt with. Such a grievance shall be filed within seven (7) calendar days of the date of dismissal or suspension.
Step3. The Company and the Union agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation, application or alleged violation of a specific provision of this Agreement, which has been properly carried through the steps outlined in this Article and which has not been settled, may be referred to' a Board of Arbitration by either the Company or the Union notifying, in writing, the other of such action.
4.04	TheBoard ofArbitration will be composed of one ( 1) person appointed by the Company, one (1) person appointed by the Union, and a third person to a: as Ch^rman agr6ed to by the other two (2) members of the Board.
4.05	Within fourteen (14) calendar days of the request by the Company or the Union to the other for a Board, each shall notify the other of the name of its appointee.
4.06	Should the persons appointed by the Company and the Union to act on the Board not agree on a third person within fifteen ( 15) working days of the notification period provided in clause 4.05, the Minister ofLabour of the Province of Ontario shall be asked to nominate a person to act as Ch^^m.
4.07	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any jurisdiction to alter, add to, subtract from, modify, amend, or to substitute any provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistentwith the terms and provisions of the Agreement.
4.08 The ^^ardous or majority decision, in writing, of the Arbitration Board with respect to the matters coming within the jurisdiction of the Board shall be final and binding upen the Company, the Union and the employees.
4.09	(a) The Company and the Union shall pay their own respective costs, and the fees and
expenses of any withesses and of their respective representatives, including appointees 'the Board. The fees and expenses of the Ch^rman shall be shared equally by the Company and the Union. The Company shall pay the grieving employee at his/her basic hourly rate for the duration of the arbitration meeting if the meeting was held during his/her regular scheduled working hours and only for such time he/she would have no^rmally worked had the meeting not been held.
(b)	The Union's Business Representative shall be admitted during working hours, at a reasonable time, to interview employees on duty or to inspect working conditions. Such visits shall be urtanged to cause a	of disturbance to the Company's business
and the Business Representative shall first report his/her presence on the occasion of
-6-
each such visit to the	Resources ^^ger or, in his/her absence, the Plant
Manager or, in his/her absence, his/her delegated representative.
ARTICLE 5 • STEWARDS
5.01	Eight (8) Union Stewards, including the Chief Steward, shal be designated by the Union for
the following areas:
Kitchen - day shift	1 Steward
Kitchen - afternoon shift	1 Steward
Packaging - dav shift	1 Steward
Packaging- afternoon shift	1 Steward
Maintenance	1 Steward
Shipping	1 Steward
Night Shift	1 Steward
5.03 The Union shall notify the Company, in writing, upon elections of the names of the Stewards and the areas they represent as well as of any changes in such persons as and when such changes occur.
5.04	The Union agrees that Stewards, like other employees, have their regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons shall not leave their regular duties without prior consent of their supervisor. In the event of them having to leave their regular duties or dep^artment for purposes of processing an employee complaint or grievance, they shall first obtain permission from their supervisor giving reasons for such request. When the business of the Stewards is completed, they will check-in to their own dep^artment through their supervisor. The Union agrees that Stewards shall not absent themselves from their regular duties for unreasonable lengths of time.
5.05	Union Stewards while attending meetings with Company representatives on Company property will be paid their basic hourly rate for the duration of the meeting if the meeting is held during their regular scheduled working hours and for such • time they would have normally worked had the meeting not held.
5.06	The Company agrees that the Chief Steward has the right to leave the station of work after ob^taining permission from his/her supervisor to investigate any grievance by his/her fellow steward or fellow workers. The Chief Steward will be given copies of all written w^arnings.
ARTICLE 6- DISC^^^ATION
6.01	The Company agrees that it wil not discriminate nor use intimidation, ^rassment, or coercion against any employees by reason of their colour, creed, countty of origin, position with or membership in the Union. The Union agrees that it will not disc^^hase nor use intimidation, harassment or coercion against any employees by reason of their
-7-
colour, creed, country of origin or position the company or non-membership in the Union:
ARTICLE 7 - ^UNIFORMS ^AND TOOLS
7.01	The Company shall supply to its employees al tools, aprons, coats, etc. necessary for proper performance of their work. However, skilled trades maintenance department employees shall have worn out or broken tools replaced. Such tools shall be turned into the department supervisor at the time of such request. Such employees shall exercise reasonable care in looking after the condition of their tools. A tool allowance of$250 will be paid by separate cheque on February 1" each year to al employees who are working on a maintenance job listed nArticle 25.01.
7.02	Upon provision of receipts for the purchase of safety shoes by the employee, the Company agrees to pay up to ninety dollars ($90.00) per contract year for Safety Committee approved safety shoes for each full-time, non-probationary employee. An exception to this will be that the Company will supply safety rubber boots to employees whose work functions necessitate same, as required.
7.03	(a) The Company will provide a clean two piece freezer coat and gloves for the
freezerpers on.
(b)	Parkas will be supplied to employees when assigned to work in freezer areas. The Company agrees to purchase six (6) additional freezer coats for the maintenance department.
(c)	The Company agrees to supply outside Shippers with parkas.
(d)	The Company will provide thermal vests to permanent employees in the following areas:
1.	Packaging
2.	Pre-blend
3.	Trimming
ARTICLE 8 • WORKERS' COMPENSATION
8.01	The Company shall become enrolled so as to afford its employees protection under the Workers' CompensationAct
8.02	If an employee is injured and is required to leave the plant for medical attention, he/she will be paid for the balance of his/her shift during which the accident occurred.
The Company agrees to have the injured employee accompanied to the doctor's office or the hospital by an appropriateperson as deemed necessary by the Company.
ARTICLE 9 ■ HOURS OF WORK
9.01
(a)	The regular work week shall be forty (40) hours and the regular work day shall be eight (8) hours on any five consecutivecalendar days.
lo•
-8-
(b)	When the Company changes an employee's scheduled hours of work from his/her
present schedule to another schedule, the employee will be entitledto 24 hours' notice of the schedule change unless the schedule change is	the agreement of the employee. If
the schedule change is not with the agreement of the employee and the Company fails to provide 24 hours’ notice of the schedule change, the employee will be paid one and one-half times his/her regular rate for al hours worked outside his/her previous schedule
the expiry of the 24 hours’ notice.
(c)	An employee with more than one year ofsenioritywho is on a shift on other than a temporary basis may request to change shifts with a more junior employee who is performing the same job on other than a temporary basis on another Such change of shift will be made as soon as reasonably possible provided that the employee requesting the shift change has not had a change of shift under the provisions of this Section within the previous 12 months.
ARTICLE 10- OVERTIME
10.01 Time and one-half will be paid for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per shift. Time and one-half will also be paid for hours worked in a week in excess of forty (40) hours that have been paid at straight time rates.
10.02	All work performed on a Recognized Holiday (or a day celebrated in lieu thereof) will be paid at time and one-half the employee's regular rate of pay, in addition to the day's pay for such holiday.
10.03	All employees shall be required to work a reasonable amount of overtime and, if necessary, employees having least seniority shall be expected to work provided the employee is capable of performing such work. An employee with physical work restrictions on file in the Human Resources department may decline the overtime opportunity and will not be expected to work.
When overtime is to be worked employees are to be informed before lunch break. For weekend overtime the Company will advise employees by lunch break on Friday.
10.04	(a) If overtime is required in the Maintenance and Sanitation department, the Company
agrees that the employees who work in the area will work overtime Monday through Friday unless the employee has other commitments and may not be able to work the overtime; however, on Saturday and Sunday the overtime will be on a rotation basis.
(b) If overtime is required within the department, (other than Maintenance and Sanitation) the overtime will be offered to employees who are qualified to perform the required work, by department shift seniority, on a rotation basis. The Company will maintain a listing of those employees qualified to perform each job classification. The "Machine Operator" job classification will be further broken down into specific operations within the department. In the event that overtime is being offered on more than one job classification in the department and where an employee has been placed on two or more overtime job classification lists that are working overtime, the employee will be offered, where possible, the overtime opportunity for thejob in the highest job rate classification subject to the needs of the business and the overall skills available to work overtime. Where the Supervisor
-9-
assigns the above employee to the lower paid overtime opportunity due to the overall skills available to work overtime, he/she shall be paid at the higher wage classification.
The Company will maintain two overtime opportunity lists, one for Monday to Friday overtime and the other for Saturday/Sunday/Recognized Holiday overtime. All overtimejob classificationlists will be posted in the respective departments.
(d)	Tempo^ty t^transers of an employee will not afect the opportunity for such employee to perform overtime work in his/her dep^tment.
ARTICLE 11- OFF- S^TC	SUNDAY PRE^MIUM
11.01	An off-shift will be defined as a shift where the majority of an employee's scheduled hours fall between 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 am. The Company agrees to pay an employee working on an off-shift, a premium of forty-five cents (45^) per hour for all regularly scheduled hours worked, not to include overtime.
11.02	The CompanywiIIpay al full-time employees who are scheduled to work on a calendar Sunday a premium of one and one-half times their regular rate for al scheduled hours worked at straight time rates.
^TICLE 12 - REST PERIODS
?
12.01	The Company shall ^ant a fifteen ( 15) minute rest period as near as practicable to the middle of the first half and to the middle of the second half of the shift.
12.02	When an employee is required to work in excess of two hours beyond his/her regular scheduled quitting time, a fifteen minute rest period, paid for by the Company, shall be provided prior to the start of the overtime shift. The Company further agrees to supply a supper or six dollars ($6.00) in lieu of a supper, during the aforementionedrest period.
ARTICLE 13- RECOG^NIZED HOLIDAYS
13.01	The reco^gnizd holidays wil be as follows:
New Year's Day	Labour Day 1
Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Canada Day	Boxing Day
Civic Holiday	
13.02	All employees shall be entitled to full pay for such holidays provided. However, no employees shall be entitled to be paid for such holiday if they absent themselves without good and valid cause on the day before or the day after such holiday.
- 10 -
ARTICLE 14- VACATION
14.01	Employees with less ^an twelve (12) months of seniority as of May 1st shall receive vacation pay equal to four percent (4%) of e^arnings from their date of hire to May lst ofthe curent vacation year.
14.02	Employees with twelve (12) months or more of seniority as of May 1st shall receive two (2) weeks' vacation with pay.
14.03	Employees with five (5) years or more of seniority as of May 1st shall receive ^ree (3) weeks' vacation with pay.
14.04	Employees with twelve (12) years or more of seniority as of May 1st shall receive four (4) weeks' vacation with pay.
14.05	Vacations are to be taken between May 1st and the following April 30th and shall not be caried from one vacation year to the next.
14.06	For the vacation period between the date of ratification and April 30, 20(0, employees who were entitled to 5 and 6 weeks of vacation under the Collective Agreement which had an expiry date of January 14, 1999 will be granted an unpaid leave of absence for such week(s), ifthey so desire.
14.07	An employee who has four (4) weeks of vacation entitlement must take at least one of histber weeks of vacation during the months of January to April.
ARTICLE 15- SENIORITY
15.01	Seniority in this Agreement shall be a plant-wide seniority from the day of last hire.
15.02	(a) In the case of date duplication, an alphabetical list shall be prepared in accordancewith
the surname and those at the top of the list shall be deemed to be hired first.
(b) The Company agrees to post the seniority list on the bulletin board every six (6)months.
15.03	New employees hired by the Company wil be considered as probationary employees until they have completed ninety (90) days worked during which time they may be discharged or disciplinedwithout recourse to the Grievance Procedure. The Company will not discharge an employee for the purpose of enforcing an additional probatio^ry period. Upen completion of the ninety (90) days worked, the employee shall be either discharged or placed on the regular seniority list.
15.04	(a) In the event of a promotion, transfer, a reduction of staff or lay-off, or a rehiring of
employees, the principle of plant-wide seniority shall govern the matter provided the employee is q^ualified to perform the work.
(b) The exceptions to 15.04 (a) will be that when employees are temporarily displaced for up to three (3) work days due to lack of work the principle of plant shift seniority will apply. When reducing staff due to lack of work for a period of four (4) hours or less remaining in the shift, the principle of dep^artment shift seniority wil apply (an employee being reduced for 4 hours or less has the right to displace a part-time
-11-
employeeworking in another dep^artment on the same shift rather ^an being sent home, provided the employee can perform the required work).
(c)	Employees displacedwill fil vacancies created by lay-offs, in accordancewith 15.04 (a)
and (b) provided	are qualified to perform the work.
(d)	When it can be detennined that a temporary vacancy which it is necessary to fil due to an absence of an employeewill exist for a period of more ^an three (3) work days, the Company will provide full consideration to seniority and qualifications on a departmental basis.
15.05	An employeereporting to work for his/her regular shiftand is laid off or not required for any
part of that shift due to a mechanical breakdown, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at
his/her regular basic hourly rate except when the employee:
(a)	RB been given advance notice not to report to work.
(b) Is prevented from working because of an	of (God such as power failureflood or fire.
(c)	Did not keep the Company advised ofhis/her curent address and telephone number.
15.06	Employees who because of a lack of work are to be laid off for a period of more ^an
(3) work days andwho have:
(a)	Less than five (5) years' seniority shall receive two (2) days' written notice or two (2) days' basic pay in lieu of such notice.
(b)	Five (5) or more but less ten (10) years' seniority shall receive one (1) week's written notice or one (1) week's basic pay in lieu of such notice.
(c)	Ten (10) or more years' seniority shall receive two (2) weeks' written notice or two (2) weeks' basic pay in lieu of such notice.
Copies of lay-off notices shall be given to the Stewards of the areas where the employees are to be laid off work.
In the event of a lay-off of three (3) work days or less, verbal advice shall be given to the Stewards of the	where the employees are to be laid off
15.07	(a) When recalling persons, a laid-off employee will be entitled to be recalled for a period of
twelve (12) months from the date of lay-off in accordance with clause 15.04. The Company shall direct such persons by registered letterto the last address ap^^thg on the Company's records to report to work. The person recalled shall report to work at the date and time specified in the registered letter or within seven (7) calendar days of the date of the registered letter, whichever is the later. In the event the person recalled is unable to report because of medically validated accident or sickness, or for any other valid reason, he/she shall be excused from such recall. In order to re^m to work, the person disabled shall provide acceptable medical evidence of physical ability to re^m to work.
-12 -
(b) Where an employee moves to anotherj ob because of a lay-off, he/she shall be reamed to the position he/she held before the lay-off prior to any employee on lay-off being recalled to fill the position.
15.08	An employee shall lose his/her seniority and be terminated from the employ of the Company when:
(a)	He/she is discharged by the Company and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure.
(b)	He/she voluntarily terminates his/her employment.
(c)	He/she has been laid off continuously for a period of more than twelve (12) months.
(d)	He/she does not re^m to work from lay-off as provided in clause 15.07.
(d)	He/she is absent from work for three (3) working days without a good and valid reason.
15.09	Employees' seniority will not be unreasonably terminated when they remain away from work because of sickness or disability, provided the Company is notified within a reasonable time. An employee re^^Ing from sick or disability leave after five (5) working days' absence, must, if requested by the Company, present a certificate from his/her physician stating the nature of the sickness and that the employee is fully recovered to perform his/her regular duties or defined modified duties.
15.10	When an employee is required to take time-off work for personal reasons, he/she shall advise his/her immediate supervisor one (1) day before. In the event of the pe^ment closure of all or part of the plant operations, terminated employees will receive severance pay in accordance with the terms of the Ontario Employment	Act.
ARTICLE 16 - PROMOTION
16.01	In applying the provisions of this Article, the plant shall be divided into dep^artments as set out in Article 25.
16.02	(a) The Company will provide training oppor^hities to employees on a department
shift seniority basis, and when filling a back up vacancy in a department, the Company will give the senior employee on the shift the opportunity to fill the vacancy, provided he/she has the required skills and qualifications to perform the work.
(b) The Company agrees to post on the bulletin boards all full-time permanent vacancies, all back up vacancies, all training opportunities and promotions.
16.03	(a) To fill a permanent vacancy in a department, such vacancy shall be posted for a
period of four (4) working days. Interested employees shall submit an application form (obtained from their Supervisor or the Human Resources Department) within the four (4) working days of the posting. The Company shall fill the vacancy by seniority in the following order:
i) First, the vacancy will be filled by those applicants from within the department.
- 13 -
ii) Second, if the vacancy is not filled by i), the Company will fill the vacancy from applicants from other departments on the basis of plant-wide seniority.
The successful candidate in the paragraph above will be awarded the vacancy provided he/she has the required level of skill, ability, efficiency and the physical capability to perform the work.
(b) The name, department and seniority date of the employee will be posted. A copy of such notice will be forwarded to the Union office.
16.04	(a) When an employee Successful on ajob posting, he/she shall maintain his/her existing rate unless the employee has had previous experience on thejob, in which case he/she shall receive the job rate immediately. 'Whenan employee has maintained his/her existing classification rate he/she shall progress to the newjob classification rate after successfully maintainingthe new position for ^thirty (30) working days.
(b) An employee who is successful on a job posting and who maintains the position after ^thirty (30) working days, will receive the new job classification rate retroactive to the first day of appointment of the position.
ARTICLE17- DEMOTION
17.01	In applying the provisions of this Article, the plant shall be divided into dep^tmente as set out in Article 25.
17.02	This Article will be applied in conjunction with 16.02 (a), 16.02 (b) or 16.03 (a).
17.03	Employees wishing to bid on a lower paidjob vacancy will be given the opportunity on the basis of seniority, once every twelve (12) months maximum, to successfully bid up to two classification levels lower, provided that they have the required skills and qualifications to perform the work. The exchange will take place once the Company has had the opportunity to train replacement personnel.
ARTICLE 18- LEAVE OF ABSENCE
18.01	Employees may be granted a leave of absence without loss of seniority, upen proper approval being obtained from the Plant Manager or his/her designate and such leave of absence shall not be unreasonably withheld.
18.02	In the case of pregnant females, leave of absence will be granted without loss of seniority to such persons provided that such employees shall re^m to work not more ^an sixteen (16) weeks following the birth of the child. The Company reserves the right to determine when it shall no longer be suitable for a pregnant female to continuework.
18.03	(a) In the event an employee is precluded from working his/her regular shift or shifts due to
being called for‘and reporting forjury duty or jUty selection, or being subpoenaed as a crown wiiness, the Company eagres to make-up the difference in pay between the amount received for jury duty, jury selection time, or crown wiiness duty, and the amount the employee would have earned for working his/her regular shift or shifts.
-14 -
(b) In order to qualify for such compensation, the employee shall give seventy-two (72) hours' prior notice to his/her supervisor for such jury duty, jury selection call, or subpoena as a cromi withes and ^^ent evidence of the co^^^^on ^enived for such^vicxl.
ARTICLE 19- ^HEALTH^AND WELFARE
19.01	(a) The Company agrees to pay for weekly wage indemnity coverage of sixty percent
(600/o) of a full-time employee's basic weekly earnings, for a period of twenty-six weeks effective on the first day of an accident and the fourth day of an illness.
Employees, with	than twenty (20) years of seniority at the commencement of their
absence, will be eligible for thirty-nine (39) weeks of weekly wage indemnity coverage under the terms outlined above.
Employees will not be entitled to be paid any weekly wage indeminity benefits for any period of time for which they are eligible to receive Employment Insurance Sickness benefits.
Each employee will reimburse the Company for 50% of the cost of the premium for his/her weekly wage indemnity coverageby weekly deduction from his/her pay cheque.'
(b) The Company agrees to pay for Long Disability coverage of sixty percent (60%) of a full-time employee's basic weekly ^mings, integrated with the indemnity payable by the Canada Pension Plan and Compensation Act commencing following the cessation of weekly wage indemnity coverage, provided that the employee is totally disabledto perform any work, according to the rules and regulations of the insurers.
19.02	(a) The Company agrees to pay for a comprehensive drug prescription plan covering
full-time employees and their dependents. The plan shall have ten dollars ($10.00) deductible for single coverage and twenty dollars ($20.00) deductible for family coverage.
(b)	The Company agrees to provide a vision care plan (under the Major Medical Plan) providing a benefit of one hundred and thirty-five dollars ($135.00) per person every two (2) consecutive years for each employee and his/her eligible dependents, for the purchase of frames, lenses, the fitting of prescription lenses and contacts when recommended by a physician or optometrist.
(c)	The Company agrees to pay to provide coverage (under the Major Medical Plan) for semi-private hospitalization for all eligible full-time employees and their eligible dependents.
19.03	The Company agrees to provide and pay the full premium for a fifteen thousand dollar ($15,000) life insurance policy for all full-time employees.
In addition, the Company agrees to provide and pay the full premium for a fifteen thousand dollar ($15,000) Accidental Death and Dismemberment policy for all full-time employees.
-15-
19.04	The Company agrees to contribute twenty-eight cents (28$ per hour for regular hours worked by full-time employees into the Ontario Retail Employees Dental Benefit Trust Fund.
19.05	The Company agrees to pay contributions to the Trust Fund of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan in the amount of fifty cents (50$ per hour on behalf of all bargaining unit employees who have completed their probationary period (Employees).
The hours that shall be counted for the purpose of the Company's contributions shall include hours worked, hours paid because of vacations, statutory holidays, bereavement leave and jw:y duty, hours paid for time spent at grievance meetings and will also include lost hours not paid by the Company for Employees attending union business when approved by the Union and the Company.
The Company will contribute for the hours specified above, to a maximum of two thousand (2,000) hours per calendar year for each Employee.
These contributions, supported by a report in a format designated by the trustees of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan, showing the names of Employees for whom contributions were paid and the number of hours for which contributions were paid for each Employee, will be remitted directly to the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan within fifteen (15) days following the end of each month to which the contributions are applicable. The Company agrees to pay any late remittance damages, interest or charges that are presently provided for in the Contribution Control Programme of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan Trust Fund as of its latest revision in June 1991.
It is understood that the Company's participation in the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan shall be limited to making on a timely basis the remittances as outlined herein and also providing from time to time such documents, forms, reports and information as may be required by the trustees of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan provided that such are reasonably required and necessaty to the administration of the Plan. The Company assumes no responsibility for pension benefits provided by the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan.
19.06	(a) The Company shall continue to make a reasonable provision for the safety and health of
its employees at the plant during the hours of their employment.
(b)	The Company agrees to establish an Accident Prevention Committee in an endeavour to provide safe work practices throughout the operation and such Committee shall meet monthly. Five (5) of the persons on the Committee shall be employees and/or Union Stewards while the remaining persons shall be Company representatives.
(c)	It is the intention of the Company and the Union to resolve safety issues internally. However, the Company and the Union agree that any safety issues tabled at the Accident Prevention Committee which cannot be resolved to the mutual satisfaction of the Company and the Union within a reasonable period of time, may be referred by either party to the Ministry of Labour.
-16-
19.07	Adequate rest rooms shall be provided and kept heated and ventilated and in good, sanitary condition. The employees shall co-operate with the Company in keeping the rest rooms in clean and sanitary condition.
19.08	In the event an employee is required by the Company, the local Board of Health, or any gove^mental agency to take a medical examination, x-ray or other tests, such shall be barged on Company time and at the expense of the Company.
ARTICLE 20- BEREAVEMENTPAY
20.01	The Company agrees to pay employees for three (3) working days time off in the event of bereavement in the family as follows: mother, father, wife, husband, child, brother, sister., The Company further agrees to pay employees for two (2) working days time off in the event of bereavement in the family as follows: mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law.
The Company will only pay for working days time off that is taken not later ^an two days following the day of the funeral.
ARTICLE 21 -WO^RKING CONDITIONS
21.01	The Company agrees that its shop and factory shall be properly ventilated and maintained in a sanitary condition. The Union shall co-operate with the Company to practice good housekeepingmethods.
ARTICLE 22 -	LABEL
22.01	The Company agrees to put the Union label on all pickled, smoked meats, etc.
ARTICLE 23 - UNION SHOP C^S
23.01	The Union agrees to supply the company with a display card which the Company agrees to exhibit in a prominent place in its shop or factory. Such card shall be the property of the Union and shall be reamed on demand.
ARTICLE24- CO-OPERATION
24.01	The Company and the Union agrae to work through a joint committee and endeavour to promote the sale of union-made delicatessen products whenever possible.
24.02	The Company and the Union agree to participate in a Labour-Management Committee which will meet to disOJSs matters of mutual concern. An agenda outlining subjects to be discussed will be provided by the parties to each other prior to the date of the meeting.
The Committee will be comprised of three Union representatives and three M^gement representatives who will meet on a monthly basis. Meetings will nonnally be held during the day shift and employees attendingthe meeting will suffer no loss of pay while attending.
ARTICLE 25 - HOURLY RATES OF PAY
25.01	Subject to his/her length of seniority, a 111-timeemployeewill be paid the applicablerate for the classification into which his/her job fits.
-17-
	UNSKILLED ^^^CATION HOURLYRA1E	SEl\1-Strn ^^CLAS.5IFCATION HOURLY RATE	SKILLED HOURLY RATE
Starting Rate	mso	51033	$10.75
After 1 Year’s Seniority	$11.00	$11.35	$11.75
^After2 Years’ Seniority	51230	51233	$12.75
After 3 Years’ Seniority	51325	$13.60	$14.00
JOB	HO^URLY RATE
MechanicB	51830
Mechanic A	$19.10 _
Electrician AA	$19.40
Mechanic AA.	$19.40
Electromechanic Technician	$19.95
Electronic Technician	$19.95
The followingdep^artments will be recognized
Kitchen
Pac^kaging
Sanitation
Shipping
Maintenance
Thejobs m ui'-' aw v'-' u'-'!'a!uiients (excludingthe Maintenancedep^artment)will fit into the three classifications as follows:
Unskiled Classification
il HGL and LGLjobs in the plant
Semi-Skiled Classification Kitchen
Material Controller Meat Receiver Trimmer Fonnulator Machine Operator Frank-0-Matic Operator
Packaging
Material Controller Packaging Machine Operator Slicer Operator Wiener Peeler
-18 -
Dry Goods
Dry Receiver
Sanitation
Sanitation Worker
shipping
Freezer Person Checker/Shipper
Skiled Classification Kitchen
Smokehouse Operator
25.02	Full-time non-probationary employees who are required to perform work in a higher paid classification for at least one (1) hour per day will be paid the appropriate higher rate of pay for the time so worked.
ARTICLE 26- TERM OF AGREEMENT
26.01	This Agreement shall take effect as of the date of ratification and shall remain in effect until the 14th day of Jan^uacy, 2004 and thereafter from year to year, unless either party gives to the other party notice in writing of cancellation or of amendment, within the period of ninety (90) days prior to the date of expiration.
26.02	This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes and
replaces all previous agreements,both	and oral.
Agreed this	day of	, 2000.
FOR UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL	FOR MAPLE LEAF MEATS INC.
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,	150 BARTOR ROAD
•19-
LETIER OF ^UNDERST^ANDING
The Company reco^gnizes employee concerns regardingjob security. The Company and the Union understand the importance of the Company's continued competitive position in the marketplace and its requirement for economic survival.
The Company prefers to have work done by its employees. However, it may be necessary to have work performed by outside services.
The relevant factors which the Company will consider before using outside services include: adverse effect on employees (i.e. lay-oft),' availability of required skils, urgency of the job; cost and economic factors.
If work performed by outside services results in lay-off of any of the existing employees, the Union will have recourse to the grievance procedure.
-20-
LETTER OF ^UNDERST^ANDING
Re: Weekend Overtime forMechanics
1.	The parties agree that when overtime is required of mechanics on Saturday and/or Sunday, the mechanics who normally work in each operating area will work overtime unless the employees notify the Company in advance that they have other commitments.
2.	All weekend overtime will be posted on the maintenance normally by Thursday, by means of a log sheet onto which the mechanics will indicate their intent to work. Any refusal
■ to work will be considered as being at work for overtime rotation purposes.
3.	The Company will allocate the qualified mechanics for thejobs to be done. Other required maintenance overtime will be done on a rotational basis by qualified mechanics.
4.	The parties also agree that the Company will keep posted the overtime for all mechanics an d a revision will be done on a quarterly basis. Any imbalance in overtime will be made up, subjectto business conditions, over the next quarterly period.
-21-
LETTERO^FUNDERST^ANDING
Re: Technological Change
In the event the Company introduces technological change in the form of new equipment, the parties understand that the afected employees who are determined to be redundant as a result of technological changewil. be dealt with in ^^^^ec with Article 15 of theAgreement.
Furthermore, the Company agrees to mect with the Union two weeks prior to the implementation of the new equipment in order to discussissues relating to the displacement of employees.
-22-
LETIER OF ^UNDERST^ANDING
:Ee:	Ji and Education F
The Company agrees to contribute three cents (3^) per hour to the United Food and Commercial Workera Union Local 175 Training and Education Fund for all hours paid and worked by all bargaining unit employees.
-23-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Procedure for Staff Reductions
It is agreed that the following procedure will apply to staff reductions in excess of3 working days.
Thejunior employee within the affectedjob classification (referred to as Employee A) will be allowed to either:
I)	Displace the mostjunior employee in the department in the same classification and retain hisher rate of pay.
Or
2)	Exercise hi sher seniority and displace the mostjunior employeewithin hjs/her department on the same shift.
Or
3)	Where option 2 above does not apply because Employee A is the mostjunior employee within the department on the affected shift, he/she will be allowed to displace the mostjunior employee on his/her shift in another department.
The employee displaced in option 2 by Employee A will be allowed to exercise option 1 and 3.
The employee displaced by a more senior employee under option 1 or3 will then be moved to the vacancy created by a lay-off of the mostjunior employee in the plant.
Affected employees will be allowed to exercise the above 3 options only ifthey can perform thejob to the satisfaction of the Company.
An employee displaced to a lowerjob classification shall not have hi sher rate of pay reduced for up to twelve weeks including lay-off after which the lowerjob classification rate will apply.
-24-
Memorandum of Agreement
Employees who were hired prior to March 1, 1999 and who are subsequently laid off will be given the work that would normally be performed by part-time employees provided that they inform the Company, in writing, prior to being laid off that they are willing to perform part-time work and provided that they can perform the required work. If any such employee informs the Company, in writing, prior to being laid off, that he/she is willing to perform part-time work, a copy of such will be given to the Union.
When a laid off full-time employee who was hired prior to March 1, 1999, works part-time, he/she will not be paid $9.00 per hour but rather will be paid his/her regular rate prior to being laid off.
Such employees will be paid for all hours worked at their straight time rate until they have worked in excess of eight (8) hours on a shift.
This Memorandum will remain in effect unless changed through subsequent negotiations.
Agreed this	day of	2000.
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
MAPLE LEAF MEATS INC. 150 BARTOR ROAD
Memorandum of Agreement
Re: Lump Sum Payments
The Company agrees that, upon ratification of the new Collective Agreement which has an expiry date of January 14, 2004, an employee named on the attached listing, initialled by N.E. Courtney, who is still an employee of the Company on the date of ratification will receive a lump sum payment, less any deductions required by law, in the amount specified for him/her on the attached listing, initialled by N. B. Courtney.
An employee may choose to take his/her lump sum payment immediately following the date of ratification or may take it at a time when he/she leaves the employ of the Company provided that his/her date of termination is not later than January 15, 2000. Under all circumstances, an employee must take his/her payment by not later than January 15, 2000.
At the choice of the employee, the payment, less deductions required by law if applicable, will be paid either directly to the employee or into an RRSP of the employee’s choice. The Company will make the payment within 30 calendar days of an employee’s signed request unless awaiting infonnation from Revenue Canada related to the employee causes a further delay.
Signed this	day of	, 2000.
FOR UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL	FOR MAPLE LEAF MEATS INC.