ftR	SIM- (CdJvtMBQif iM
!J$Uli&Q LKilf '^j i&£
fi . /jUijMfixiaojiiEr. $! !l.d£j
Name.......
Address.....
Phone......
Member ID..
Work Address . Work Phone .... Union Steward Phone.......
Jnited Food & Commercial Worker: Locals 175 & 633
2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, ON L5N 2K7
Phone: 905-821-8329 Toll Free: 1-800-565-8329 Fax: 905-821-7144
www.ufcw175.com
UPDATEDMAY201
Letter from the President Local 175 UFCW Canada
Sisters and Brothers:
I	wish to welcome new members to Locals 175 & 633 of the United Food& Commercial Workers Union, and to thank long-standing members for their continued support and assistance over the years.
I	hope you read this contract and become aware of your rights and privileges as union members. It is an important document. It identifies and guarantees your income, benefits and job security while you work for your current employer. Like an insurance policy, a warranty for a new car, or the deed to your home, if you are not aware of the agreement you entered into, you may not benefit from it.
As a union memberwith a contract, you have the freedom to plan for the future. You will know what your income will be in advance. Your rights and benefits are written down and cannot be revoked, and your job security is a primary element. Non-union workers do not have this protection. Their wages and benefits may be cut at any time, as may theirjobs.
Become familiar with your contract. If unsure about an item or if you think your concern is not covered,
speak to your Union Steward. He or she is a co-worker trained by the Union to help you with concerns and grievances in the workplace. Ifthe problem cannot be settled by the Steward, a full-time Union Representative can be contacted, to assist you.
In addition to the Stewards in the workplace and the Union Representatives who support them, we also have a team of professionals who provide support. We should all be proud of our Union’s achievements. We have proven many times that an employer can treat workers fairly and still run its business efficiently.
In the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, we are committed to job security in an ever changing social environment. Only your Union can be relied upon to protect your rights.
Your Union offers you representation before the Workplace Safety & Insurance Board (WSIB). If you are injured on thejob, our trained staff will support you and help you in any way they can.
Non-unionworkers are at the mercy of their employer. This is one reason our Local Union continues to grow.
Our organizing team works around the clock to help bring otherworkers into our union. If you know someone who works in a non-union environment, do them a favour and give our organizers a call.
We also believe inthe education of our members and their children. Lack of economic resources should not be a hindrance to further education. In this regard, the UFCW offers a number of scholarships at the local,
national and international level. They are for your benefit as Local 175 or 633 members.
In addition, your Union works to keep you up-to-date about legislation concerning your working rights.
Your Local Union represents some 50,000 members across Ontario. As we continue to grow, we have advanced to keep up with the growth in areas of servicing and all-round members’ support. Included in this booklet is a list of Union Representatives and other staff who are here to support you, the member.
Only by all of us working together can we keep what we have gained over years of hard negotiations and obtain what is rightfully ours in the future. Our labour may be the only commodity we have to sell. Let us not sell it cheaply.
Please feel free to contact me at any time with questions or concerns about the Union. You put the 'U’ in your Union.
In Solidarity,
Shawn Haggerty President
Local 175 UFCW Canada
OFFICERS
Shawn Haggerty Teresa Magee Betty Pardy
President Secretary-Treasurer Recorder
Ray Bromley	Harry Sutton
Executive Assistant	Executive Assistant
As the elected officers of Local 175, it is our job to ensure the smooth running and day-to-day operations of your Local Union. We represent more than 50,000 members across Ontario, of whom approximately
25,000	are retail workers. Others work in a wide variety of units, including nursing homes, funeral homes, hotels, processing plants and manufacturing plants. This requires versatility, knowledge and tireless effort. To accomplish this job, we are supported by your Union Stewards, Union Representatives, Benefits Representatives, Staff Lawyers and Communications Representatives. lfwe are not available or cannot answer a given question, we have the resources to find out. Remember, we are here to serve you.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
You are one of more than 240,000 members in Canada and 1.4-miHion members in North America.
The UFCW is the result of a merger between two of the oldest and most respected unions in NorthAmeri-ca; theAmalgamated Meat Cutters and ButcherWork-men of North America and the Retail Clerks International Union. This merger took place on June 6, 1979. The UFCW represents workers in nearly all aspects of Canadian life, which is mirrored in the makeup of Locals 175 & 633.
LOCALS 175 & 633 UFCW CANADA
Your local union, with more than 50,000 members, is the largest UFCW local union, and the largest local union of any union in Canada.
This Local has the expertise, financial stability and resources to provide you, the member, with the best negotiating team, the best legal assistance, and the best all-round service of any union in the country.
LOCALS 175 & 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
LOCAL 175 EXECUTIVE BOARD:
President
Shawn Haggerty, Hamilton
Secretary-Treasurer
Teresa Magee, Vaughan
Recorder
Betty Pardy. London
Vice-presidents
RickAlagierski, Mississauga Bryan Braithwaite, Chatham Barbara Carr, ThunderBay Colleen Cox, Whitby Rick Daudlin, Guelph Bruce Dosman, Hanover Virginia Haggith, Oakland CherylHenry,ThunderBay Jim Hough, Burlington Lynn JiHings, Cobourg Lee Johnson-Koehn, Hamilton Tim Kelly, Stratford Carolyn Levesque, Windsor LionelMacEachern, Hamilton Frank Menezes, Brampton Scott Molnar, Nepean
James Montgomery, Welland Tony Morello, Angus Brian Ogilvie, St. Catharines Jean Patenaude, Cornwall Joe Pereira, Orangeville Toni Pettitt, Hawkestone Marc Praill, Harrow Sandra Proulx, Gloucester Fitzroy Reid, Toronto Dale Simon, ThunderBay Melody Slattery, Hamilton Louise Summers, Cornwall Harry Sutton, Scotland Karen Vaughan. Picton Chris Watson, Arthur Kimberley V\hlite, Thunder Bay
LOCAL 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD:
President
Dan Bondy, Amherstburg	Vice-Presidents
Secretary-Treasurer	Brian Kozlowski, Thunder Bay
Marylou Mallett, Arthur	Tony Nigro' Bramp'°"
Brad Wigle, Tecumseth
Recorder
Neil Hotchkiss, Amherstburg
What You Get For Your Union Dues
•	Higher than average wages and benefits. According to government statistics, unionized workers make, on average, 38% more in wages and benefits than non-union workers in the same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding investment in your future.
•	Job Security. Your Union will not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause, and it is up to management to prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens cf thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitration expenses just to protect your rights. If you are unjustly discharged, your Union will spare no expense in getting you back to work. Does a non-union worker have that kind of security?
Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights
•	are vitally important to your Union. Did you deserve a promotion and not get it?Are non-bargaining unit people doing your work? Were your bumping rights ignored? fc your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairly disciplined for a very minormistake?The Grievance Procedure allows the Union to fight for your rights. In a non-unionworkplace you have no rights except what management chooses to allow you.
Problems with the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act
•	or Employment Insurance?The Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representing you to government agencies. These services are free to you, should you ever need them. Non-unionworkers are usually “in the dark” and “out in the cold“ in these matters. They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help.
Pensions, Dental Insurance, Sick Pay, Disability Insur-
•	ance, etc. Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family. Should they be unable to work because of sickness or accident, would they trade their insurance protection for yours?You bet they would!
Add up what you paid in Union Dues last year (don’t forget that they are tax-deductible), Compare that amount with
what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes, beer,
movies, cable television or "impulse" gifts.
WHAT EA UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected front-line representative of the United Food and Commercial Workers. It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rights and to represent you to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Union Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility. Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Steward to look into a violation of your contract rights unless you are willing to file a grievance if necessary. Their time is as important as yours. Your Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement, but only if you are willing to see it through.
Despite the trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you're not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Union Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
UNION SCHOLARSHIPS, TRAINING AND EDUCATION
Locals 175 & 633 are advocates of lifelong learning. We understand the need for training and education in the workplace resulting from technological change, corporate restructuring and the abandonment by governments of the training and education of the workforce.
To address that need Locals 175 & 633 offer the most ad-
vanced and accessible Membership Training & Education program in Canada. Members can choose from a variety of free educational opportunities including: an extensive list of online programs with over 100 courses accessible24 hours a day, seven days week; computer training in-class or online; English as a second language (ESL); skills upgrading or Ontario Secondary School Diploma credits delivered in conjunction with local school boards; and courses such as CPR, FirstAid and Women’s Self-Defence. Call the Training Centre or visit our Web site for current offerings.
We are committed to ensuring our stewards are equipped with the knowledge and tools they need to face their employers and offer an extensive list of courses, from introductory to advanced, including stewardship, collective bargaining, union organizing and health & safety.
We were the first Union in Canada to use Mobile Computer Training Labs to bring computer courses to our members in their own local communities. These labs complement our Training & Education Centres in Mississauga and Hamilton.
In addition, every year the Locals offer paid training for stewards and members conducted at the Locals’ Training & Education Centre in Mississauga. Scholarships are awarded twice annually to stewards province-wide to attend these week-long, in-depth training and education seminars. The training offered changes when needed to ensure that stewards receive relevant practical skills so they can be well-informededucated representativesof the Union in their workplaces.
Each year, the Local Union also offers 56 scholarships, valued at $1,000 each, to Locals 175 & 633 UFCW Canada members and their children, who are pursuing a post-secondary education. For more information please contact the Locals 175 & 633 Training Centre at 905-821-8329 or 1-800565-8329, or visit ^ww.ufcw175.com.
We are a Unionthat is highlycommittedto making education and advancement a reality for our members.
WORKPLACE SAFETY AND INSURANCE ACT (WSIA)
FormerlyWORKERS COMPENSATIONACT
The Workplace Safety and InsuranceAct (WSIA), formerly Workers Compensation Act, is an insurance program to protect workers from health-care costs and loss of income due to job-related disabilities. Here are answers to some commonly asked questions:
1.	HOWDOES THEWORKERREPORTANACCIDENT?
If an accident occurs at work, section 22 (1) of TheAct requires a worker to file a claim as soon as possible after the accident that gives rise to the claim, but in no case shall he or she file a claim more than six months after the accident or, in the case of an occupational disease, after the worker learns that he or she suffers from the disease.
2.	IS THERE AN EXTENSION OF TIME?
The Boardmay permit a claim to be filed after the six month period expires if, in the opinion of the Board it is just to do so.
3.	WHAT FORMS MUST BE COMPLETED TO RECEIVE BENEFITS?
Section22 (4)... A claim must be on a form approved by the Board and must be accompanied by such information and documents as the Board may require. Use Form 6 • Employee's Report of Injury.
4.	WHATCONSENTOFDISCLOSURE/S REQUIRED?
Section 22 (5).. When filing a claim, a worker must consent to the disclosure to his or her employer of information provided by a health professional under subsection 37(e) concerning the worker's functional abilities. The disclosure is for the sole purpose of facilitating the worker's return to work.
5.	FAILURE TO FILE?
Section 22 (6).. If the claimant does not file the claim with the Board in accordance with this section or does not give the consent required by sub-section (5) no benefits shall be
provided under the insurance plan unless the Board. in its opinion, decides that it is just to do so.
6.	NOTICE TO EMPLOYER?
Section22 (7)... The claimant shall give a copy of his or her claim to the worker’s employer at the time the claim is given to the board. The employer must supply a copy of the Form
7,	along with any and all amendments, to the employee.
7.	NOTICE OF MATERIAL CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES?
Section 23 (3).. A person receiving benefits under the insurance plan or who may be entitled to do so shall notify the Board of a material change in circumstancesin connection with the entitlement within 10 days after the material change occurs.
8.	WAGESFOR DAYOFACCIDENT?
Section 24 (I.)The employer shall pay a worker who is entitled to benefits under the insurance plan his or her wages and employment benefits for the day of the injury as if the accident had not occurred.
9.	EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS?
Section 25 ( L)Throughoutthe first year after a worker is injured, the employer shall make contributionsfor employment benefits in respect to the worker when the worker is absent from work because of the injury. However, the contributions are required only if:
(a)	the employer was making contributions for employment benefits in respect to the worker when the injury occurred; and
(b)	the worker continues to pay his or her contributions if any, for the employment benefits while the worker absent from work.
10.	DUN TO CO-OPERATE IN RETURN TO WORK?
Section40 ( 1)... The employerof an injured worker shall cooperate in the early and safe return to work of the worker by:
(a)	contactingthe worker as soon as possible after the in-
jury occurs and maintaining communication throughout the period of the worker's recovery and impairment:
(b)	attemptingto providesuitableemploymentthat is available and consistent with the worker's functional abilities and that, when possible, restores the worker's pre-injury earnings;
(c)	giving the Board such informationas the Board may request concerningthe worker's return to work; and
(d)	doing such other things as may be prescribed.
WORKER'SD UN?
Section 40 (2)... The worker shall co-operate in his or her early and safe return to work by:
(a)	contacting his or her employer as soon as possible after theinjuryoccursand maintainingcommunicationthrough-out the period of the worker's recovery and impairment;
(b)	assisting the employer, as may be required or requested, to identify suitable employmentthat is available and consistentwith the worker's functional abilities and that, when possible, restores his or her pre-injury earnings;
(c)	giving the Board such informationas the Board may request concerning the worker's returnto work; and
{d) doing such other things as may be prescribed.
11.	NOTICE OF DISPUTE?
Section 40 (6) .. The employer or the worker shall notify the Board of any difficulty or dispute concerning their cooperation with each other in the worker's early and safe return to work. A Board mediator may be assigned to mediate the dispute.
12.	OBLIGATION TO RE-EMPLOY?
Section 41 (1)... The employer of a worker who has been unableto work as a result of an injury and who, on the date of the injury, had been employed continuously for at least one year by the employer shall offer to re-employthe worker in accordancewith this section.
Section41 (4)When the worker is medicallyableto perform the essentialdutiesof his or her pre-injury employment, the
employer shall:
(a)	offer to re-employ the worker in the position that the worker held on the date of injury, or
(b)	offer to providethe worker with alternative employment of a nature and at earnings comparable to the worker's employment on the date of injury.
TIME LIMITS
1	A 30-day time limit on appealing a Board decision about return to work or a labour market re-entry plan made on or after January 1, 1998.
2	A six-month time limiton appealinganyother Board decision made on or after January 1,1998.
3	A six-month time limit on filing a claim.
The changes to the new act are significant and have reduced or limited entitlementfor injured workers. However, you should never let management talk you out of filing a claim, it is your right. In fact, it is a violation for an employer to refuseto submit a claim.
Your local union has a benefitsdepartmentthatwill answer any questions you may have in regard to filing or appealing a WS1B claim. Contactyour union office.
EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
(formerly UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE)
On June 30, 1996, the Employment lnsuranceAct came into effect. Additional changes becameeffective January 1 , 1997 and December 31st, 2000. The new system reflects a fundamental restructuring of the old Unemployment Insurance system.
"Where to Apply?”
Apply at the local Human Resource Centre of Canada. Check the telephone directory under Human Resources Development Canada or Canada Employment Centre for the office nearestyou.
Regular Benefits:
You can receiveregularbenefitsifyou lost your job and you can’t find work, provided that you meet these requirements:
•	you have been without work and without pay for at least seven consecutivedays:
•	you have paid into the El account;
•	you have worked the required minimum number of hours inthe last52weeks; the number of hours of work needed, may range from 420-700 hours depending on the unemployment rate in your region.
•	there are two exceptions: if this is your first job ever, or your first job after coming back into the workforce after an absence of two years or more, you will need a minimum of 91 O hours of work to qualify regardless of the local unemployment rate.
In most cases you will receive 55% of your insured earnings to a maximum of $413 per week. Claimants who are in a low income family (an income of less than $25,921) with children and receive the Child Tax Benefit will receive a Family Supplement based on your Child Tax Benefit. Your benefit rate can be increased to a maximum of 65% but not greater than the maximum benefitrate of $413 (2001).
Claimants can collect benefits between 14 and 45 weeks depending on the unemployment rate in their region, and the numberof hours they haveworked inthe last52 weeks.
How to Calculatethe BenefitAmount?
The benefit rate is based on your average insured earnings inthe last26weeks of work. Your insured earnings will be averaged over a number of weeks known as a divisor, which is based on the unemployment rate in your region. The divisor is the greater of:
(a)	the number of weeks of insured earnings in the last 26 week period; or
(b)	the number of weeks specified in the divisor table.
If you worked for only the minimum number of weeks required to qualify, or for one week longer than that, then the minimum divisor applies to you.
Intensity Rule:
Any week of regular benefits collected after June 30, 1996. could affect your benefit rate on future claims. Weeks of benefits claimed will stay on your claim history for five (5) years. Working while on a claim can help you to reduce the numberof weeks on your claim history. Your claim history is maintainedfor five years.
Work Credits:
Claimants who work while they receive regular benefits and earn enough to reduce their El cheques will be able to earn credits to be applied against the intensity rule. The total amount they save the El system by working while on a claim will be converted into weeks of unpaid benefits. Those weeks will then be credited against the application of the intensity rule for the next claim in the next five years.
Sick Benefits:
Sick benefits are paid for up to 15 weeks, if you have 600 hours cf insurableemploymenti n the last 52 weeks or since the start of your last claim. If you get sick after your employment was interrupted for another reason, such as temporary layoff, you may be eligible with less than 600 hours. Medical reports are necessary.
Maternity Benefits:
If your child is born or adopted after December 31st, 2001: You must have worked and paid El premiums for at least 600 hours in the last 52 weeks, or since the beginning of your last El claim. You can start collecting maternity benefits up to 8 weeks before you are scheduled to give birth. However, benefits cannot be received later than 17 weeks after the baby is due or born, unless the infant is confined to a hospital.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Artide	Page No.
Preface............................................ 1
1	Recognition.................................... 2
2	Purpose........................................ 3
3	Union Security................................. 4
3.1	Payment of Dues......................... 4
3.2	Assessments............................. 5
3 .3	Membership.............................. 5
3.5	Address List............................ 5
4	Management Rights.............................. 6
5	No Discrimination.............................. 6
6	No Strikes and No Lockouts...................   7
7	Settlement of Grievances....................... 7
8	Wages and Classifications......................13
9	Premium Pay....................................14
10	Hours of Work and Overtime.....................15
11	Plant Holidays.................................18
12	Seniority......................................19
12.14 Part Time................................26
13	Vacations......................................28
14	Miscellaneous..................................31
14.7	Bereavement Pay.........................31
14.8	Injury Shift Guarantee..................32
14.9	Company Supplied Equipment..............33
14.12	Pregnancy/Parental Leave................35
14.13	Appearance in Court.....................35
15	Safety and Health............................  36
16	Labour Management Committee....................37
17	Union Notices..................................37
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Article	Page
18	Health, Welfare and Pension Plan.............3 7
19	Weekly Pay Guarantee.........................4 2
20	Job Posting...................................43
21	Employment Age................................44
22	Student Employment............................44
23	Skills Enhancement............................45
24	Good Attendance Bonus.........................46
25	Signing Bonus.................................46
26	Duration of Agreement.........................46
Appendix “ A Agreement as it applies to
Toronto Abattoirs..................48
Appendix “B"	Wage & Group Schedule..............49
Appendix ”C”	Job Classifications................50
Letter of Agreement re: Errors in Pay.............63
PREFACE
This booklet contains a consolidation of Collective Agreements between Quality Meat Packers Limited and the United Food and Commercial Workers and between Toronto Abattoirs Limited and United Food and Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175, which agreements are in effect for the period November 1, 2010 to October 31 , 2014. The full text of the Collective Agreement between Quality Meat Packers Limited and United Food and Commercial Workers is set out in this booklet. That text applies with respect to the Agreement with Toronto Abattoirs Limited, subject to the exceptions set out in Appendix “A”.
With respect to any disagreement between the parties, the signed Collective Agreements will be used to settle the disagreement.
-1-
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between
QUALITY MEAT PACKERS LIMITED
(hereinafter called “the Company”)
- and -
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175 affiliated with the A,F.L.-C.I.0.-C.L* C.
(hereinafter called “the Union”)
Recognizing that the welfare of the Company and that of its employees depends upon the welfare of the business as a whole, and recognizing further that a relationship of goodwill and mutual respect between employer and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance and increase of that welfare, the parties to this contract join together in the following agreement:
ARTICLE1
RECOGNITION
1.1
(a)	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for all employees of the Company working in Toronto, and Brampton, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of Supervisor, office and sales staff, stationary engineers and persons primarily engaged as their helpers in the Boiler Room.
(b)	The Company recognizes the Union negotiating Committee will be composed of the Plant Chairperson, the Chief Steward for QMP, the Chief Steward for TAL, and two committee members elected or appointed by the Union.
-2-
1.2	No employee outside of the bargaining unit will be used on work of the same nature as that performed by employees in the bargaining unit except as follows:
(i)	For the purpose ofbreaking in new employees or employees on a newjob, or instructing employees.
(ii)	For the purpose of taking an employee’s place temporarily in such cases as failure to show up for work, or who had to be relieved due to injury or sickness, or who, for other reasons, is temporarily absent from the job, or to help relieve a back log, or unexpected emergent scheduling conditions.
(iii)	Notwithstanding Article 1.2 (ii) and Article 9.2, supervisors and other excluded employees shall not be used for purposes of causing a layoff ofbargaining unit employees or reducing their regular or overtime hours.
It is further understood that foremen with a unit of ten people or less will be able to perform the same work that is perfonned by the people in the unit.
Non-Union personnel may also be permitted to do the same work as the bargaining unit for a period of three months, provided that time is used to train personnel to become supervisors.
Foremen will not work on overtime unless an employee scheduled to work on overtime does not report.
1.3	The use of the masculine gender in this agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine.
ARTICLE2
PURPOSE
2.1	The purpose of this agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to define more clearly hours of work, wages and condi-3 -
tions of employment; and to provide an amicable method of settling differences or grievances, which may from time to time arise.
ARTICLE 3 UNION SECURITY
3.1
(a)	The Company shall during the term of this Agreement, as a condition of employment deduct from members of the bargaining unit, the regular weekly Union dues and such dues shall be remitted to the Union, in the format in (b) below, prior to the fifteenth (15) of the month following the month in which such deduction is made.
The Company shall collect membership initiation fees as may be established by the Union and forward any application forms and such fees to the Union in the format outlined in (b) below, with the regular monthly dues remittance.
(b)	The remittance statement shall be documented by location containing a dues and initiation report which will be provided in the form of e-mail (remit@ ufcw 175 . com) or on a computer diskette as well as a hard copy of the dues report being attached to the remittance cheque. The information provided shall be on a standard spreadsheet in Excel, Quattro Pro, Lotus or other software program acceptable and adaptable to the Union. The spreadsheet will be in a format provided by the Union and the Company will provide the following current information: as known to the Company.
1.	S.LN.
2.	Employee number
3.	Full name (Last/First/Initials)
4.	Date of hire
-4-
5.	Rateofpay
6.	Union dues deducted
7.	Total dues deducted
8.	Initiation fees deducted
9.	Total initiation fees deducted
3.2	Assessments
Special assessments if levied in accordance with the Constitution and By-laws of the Union will be deducted from members of the Union upon proper notification from the Union.
3.3	Membership
All employees covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union within thirty (30) working days following the date of their employment, and shall thereafter maintain membership in the Union in good standing. At the time of hiring, the Company shall give new employees a membership application card which must be signed and handed in to the Company Human Resources Department within the above mentioned thirty (30) day period. If the employee fails to become a member, the Union shall advise the Company forthwith.
For the purpose of this Agreement, employees who are or who become members shall be deemed to maintain their membership in the Union in good standing provided they pay in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement the regularly prescribed initiation fee, regular monthly dues, and periodic assessments uniformly required of all members of the Local Union.
3.4	The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims made by employees with respect to deductions or remittances made pursuant this Article 3.
3.5	Address List
The Company agrees to remit, twice annually, to the Union a complete address list, including telephone number
-5-
(including area code) and S.I.N. of all Union Members.
ARTICLE4
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.1	Subject to the provisions of this agreement, the management and operation of the business, and the employment. direction, promotion, transfer, lay-off of employees, and suspension or discharge of employees for just cause, shall be vested in the management of the Company.
4.2	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company also to establish reasonable plant rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement to govern the conduct of the employees. The Union will be consulted and informed of the issuance of such rules.
4.3	The Union also acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to determine the products to be handled, produced or manufactured, schedules of production, and the methods, processes and means of production or handling.
4.4	The Company agrees that it will not exercise its management rights in a manner inconsistent with the express provisions of this agreement.
ARTICLE5
NO DISCRIMINATION
5.1	It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination contrary to the provisions of the Ontario Human Rights Code ' and no discrimination, coercion or intimidation by the Company, the Union or its officers or members against any employee because of his lawful activity or lack of activity, membership or non-membership in the Union, or due to any political affiliation, race, colour, or religion. It is further agreed that there shall be no solicitation for members, collection of dues, or other Union activity during working hours
- 6 -
except as permitted by this agreement. It is understood that no meeting of the Union or its members shall be held on the premises of the Company, nor shall any of its activities be so held at any time without the prior written approval of the Company.
5.2	In all cases of accommodation, it is agreed that the Company, the Union and the employees shall comply with their respective duties and obligations with respect to the duty to accommodate as required by the Human Rights Code of Ontario.
ARTICLE6
NO STRIKES AND NO LOCKOUTS
6.1 In view of the orderly procedure herein set out for the settlement of grievances, the Company agrees that there will be no lockout of the employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strike or refusal to work or continue to work by employees, in combination or in concert, or in accordance with a common understanding, or a slow-down or other concerted activity on the part of employees designed to restrict or limit output.
ARTICLE7
SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES
7.1
(a)	Both the Company and the Union emphasize the desirability of a satisfactory grievance procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle as many grievances as possible promptly and on the spot.
(b)	The Company agrees to provide the Plant Chairperson with four (4)hours paid time per day to attend to Union business. If the Plant Chairperson requests additional paid time beyond four (4) hours, the Company agrees that such request will not be unreasonably denied.
7.2	The Union agrees to appoint or elect a maximum of
-7-
sixteen (16) Stewards, a maximum of eight (8) per plant, and one ( 1) chairperson for both plants. One of the stewards will be recognized as the Chief Steward for Quality Meat Packers Limited and one will be recognized for Toronto Abattoirs Limited. The Company agrees to recognize such Stewards, provided they are regular employees of the Company, to deal with matters affecting employees in their plant. A list of these Stewards will be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised immediately by the Union, in writing of any change in this list.
7.3
(a)	The Union’s grievance committee will consist of the Chairperson, Chief Steward and Steward of the department affected to deal with grievances. A list of grievance committee members shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised immediately in writing of any change in this list.
(b)	The Company will pay members of the grievance committee at their regular rate for time spent in meetings of the grievance committee with management representatives.
7.4	The right of the Stewards and members of the Grievance Committee to leave their work without loss of basic pay to attend to Union business is granted on the following conditions.
(a)	Such business must be between the Union and Company management.
(b)	The time shall be devoted to the prompt handling of necessary Union business.
(c)	The Steward or Grievance Committee member concerned shall obtain the permission of his supervisor before leaving his work. If an employee is involved, who will be required to leave his workstation, the permission of the employee’s supervisor must also be
-8-
obtained. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
7.5	Grievances shall be dealt with in the following manner:
(a)	1st Step - The grievance must be filed, in writing, within seven (7) working days after the event giving rise to the grievance occurred or it is deemed abandoned. Within this period of time, it shall be discussed between the employee(s), his Steward, and the Supervisor. The Supervisor shall give the Union his decision within four (4) working days from the date the discussion took place. If the Union wishes to appeal to the next step, the grievance shall be delivered to the Company’s Human Resources Department within three (3) working days of the delivery of the Supervisor’s decision to the Union.
The parties acknowledge and agree that this provision does not prevent employees and their Supervisor or supervisor discussing and resolving issues directly between them, however, if the employee decides to proceed with a formal grievance then it must be initiated as above.
(b)	2nd Step - If a grievance is not settled at the 1st Step and there is a request to hold a 2nd Step meeting, the meeting shall be held within seven (7) working days. Present at the meeting will be such members of the grievance committee as the Union designates and the Human Resources Manager and/or such other persons as he may designate to represent the Company for the purpose of attempting to resolve the grievance. If settlement is not reached at the 2nd Step, the Union shall have four (4) working days following the receipt of the Company’s written decision to request a 3rd Step meeting. This request must be made in writing and delivered to the Human Resources Department
-9-
within the said four (4) working days.
(c)	3rd Step- If a grievance is not settled at the 2nd Step. and there is a request to hold a 3rd Step meeting, such meeting shall be held within seven (7) working da: s of the notice or such other time as the parties mutually agree in writing. Present at the meeting will be such members of the grievance committee as the Union designates and the Human Resources Manager, and/or such other persons as he may designate to represent the Company. A National Representative of the Union may be requested by either party. If settlement is not reached, the Company shall have ten (10) working days following this meeting to infonn the Grievance Committee of its decision in writing.
The grievor(s) and the Supervisor(s) may be present at the 2nd Step if either the Union or the Company so desire.
The grievor will be in attendance at third step meetings when requested by the Union.
If settlement is not reached at the 3rd Step, either party shall have thirty (30) working days following the delivery of the Company’s decision to the Union to refer the matter to arbitration. If this does not occur then it is deemed that the grievance has been abandoned.
(b) The grievance shall be referred by the Union or by the Company to an arbitration committee of three (3) members, one to be appointed by the Union, one by the Company, and a third who shall act as chairman, to be mutually agreed upon by the other two. Upon receipt of the name of the member appointed by the party submitting the grievance to arbitration, the other party shall name its nominee. If it fails to do so within two (2) weeks, its nominee will be ap-
-10-
(d)
(e)
7.6
(a)
pointed by the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario. If agreement cannot be reached within one (1) week as to the appointment of a third member, he shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario.
(c)	The parties, by agreement in writing, may agree to the arbitration being conducted by a single arbitrator, as opposed to the committee of three (3) members as set out in (b) herein and the conditions applying to the said committee as set out in (b) shall apply to the said single arbitrator.
(d)	The arbitrator or arbitration board appointed shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision, which shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it.
(e)	The arbitrator or arbitration board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of the agreement.
7.7	If either the Company or the Union alleges violation of this Collective Agreement through action of the officials of either, the grievance shall be dealt with through the grievance procedure established by- this article beginning with Step 3.
7.8	When a grievance which affects the rate of pay of an employee is settled, and as a result of such a settlement the employee receives an increase in his rate, the increase shall be paid retroactively to the date of the error in rate of pay, provided however, that in no event shall retroactivity exceed 180 days in total.
7.9	With respect to seniority employees who are dismissed or suspended, the grievance procedure set out at 7.5 subject to the following is not applicable. The procedure shall be as follows:
-11-
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
If a seniority employee is dismissed or suspended for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall promptly notify a member of the grievance committee who shall, within seven (7) working days of receipt of notice of dismissal or suspension by the aggrieved employee, notify the Human Resources Department in writing, stating the ground of objection to the dismissal or suspension. The dismissal or suspension shall then constitute a grievance, and shall be dealt with according to the grievance procedure set out above beginning with the 3rd Step. If subsequently it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed or suspended, he shall be reinstated in his former position and shall be compensated for all time lost at this regular rate of pay or granted such lesser compensation as may be deemed fair in the circumstances. To ensure prompt handling of any such grievance except by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, the Company may refuse to consider any such grievance not tiled within the said seven (7) working days of receipt of notice of dismissal or suspension, and not more than five (5)working days shall be allowed for consideration under each successive step until the matter is brought to arbitration.
A Steward or Union representative, when available, will be present when a seniority employee receives a written warning or is suspended or discharged.
The Company will notify the Steward, or his designated representative, within one working day if a seniority employee is discharged or suspended.
A copy of any official written notice of reprimand, suspension or discharge shall be given to the Union.
If requested by an employee and with reasonable notice, an employee will be allowed to see his/her file in
-12-
the presence of a management representative.
7.10	A Union Steward may discuss with the Supervisor direct matters, which may affect the welfare of the department as a whole even though at the time same may not constitute a grievance.
7.11	The Company will provide an appropriate secure area for the Union filing cabinet in all locations.
7.12	The time limits set out in this Article 7 may be extended by mutual agreement, in writing.
Neither party shall raise or proceed with a timeliness issue argument regarding “filing for arbitration” without first giving the other party written prior notice of its intent to do so.
Should either party serve such notice on the other party the parties further agree that the final time frame in the collective agreement respecting “filing for arbitration” shall then be triggered.
ARTICLE 8
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
8.1	Wages and classifications are set out in Appendix “B’’ and Appendix “C” attached hereto.
8.2	Employees permanently or temporarily transferred for five (5) days or more to ajob in a higher group shall be paid the rate of the new group.
8.3	Employees permanently or temporarily transferred for five ( 5) days or more to ajob in a lower group shall be paid the rate of the new group.
8.4	“Employees’ pay stubs will be provided in envelopes, unless an emergency condition exists. Within one hundred twenty (120) days of ratification of this Agreement, the Company will pay by direct deposit to the employee’s ac-13 -
count in a recognized financial institution of the employee’s own choice. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to provide void cheques and other banking information as required by the payroll process when requested by the Company. The Company shall give a pay stub breakdown of weekly payment to the employees at the plant or by mail in the event the employee is not at work". The Company agrees to arrange that the pay stub will show the current and previous year’s vacation accrual balances.
ARTICLE 9 PREMIUM PAY
9.1	Shift Premium
Employees who work between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. will be paid thirty-five ($.35) cents per hour over their regular rate for all hours worked between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Such premium shall not be part of an employee’s regular hourly job rate.
9.2	Team Leader
(a)	Team Leader shall be defined as a person who performs work and directs work of others, and shall not have authority to hire, fire, suspend or otherwise penalize other employees, and he/she shall be a Union member.
(b)	Team Leader shall not receive preferential treatment where daily overtime is concerned, or daily hours worked when a supervisor is present in the department.
(c)	It is understood and agreed that the Company has the sole discretion to determine whether any Team Leader position is to be created or filled. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company has the right to eliminate any existing team leader position without posting for its replacement. If the Company determines that a new team leader position is to be created or if it detennines that a Team Leader pos-14 -
ition left vacant is to be filled, the Company agrees that such team leader position shall be posted, but seniority, skill and competency, and attitude shall be equal criteria for selection, notwithstanding any provisions of Article 12 orArticle 20 to the contrary.
(d)	Team Leader shall receive fifty-five cents ($0.55) above the highest rate actually paid to employees under his/her direction except in cases where the Team Leader is the highest rated employee in which case fifty-five cents ($0.55) shall be added to his/her job rate.
There will be no expansion in the number of Team Leaders employed by the Company for the duration of the collective agreement. Further, it is agreed that should any incumbent in this position be removed from this position or leave the position for any reason, he or she will not be replaced for the duration of this agreement. All Team Leaders shall have a sticker clearly visible to identify their status. The Company will provide the Union with a list of Team Leaders from QMP and TAL.
ARTICLE lO
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
10.1	The Company intends to operate a normal work day schedule of eight (8) hours and a normal work week schedule of forty (40) hours but this will not be a guarantee of hours per day or per week. If the demands of the business cannot best be met in areas of the plant with a normal work day schedule of eight (8) hours, the Company may operate such areas of the plant on a normal work day schedule of up to twelve (12)hours and a normal work week schedule of up to forty-eight (48) hours.
10.2	If the Company makes application to the Director of Employment Standards to adopt a regular schedule ofup to
- 15 -
twelve (12) hours per day and up to forty-eight (48) hours per week, the Union agrees that such application will be supported by the Union.
10.3
(a)	An employee will be informed by their supervisor of their normal daily and weekly hours of work schedule and will remain on such schedule unless changed by the Company to another schedule.
(b)	The Company will give, if practical, twenty-four (24) hours’ notice of a change in regular scheduled shift.
10.4	Subject to the provisions of the Employment Standards Act of Ontario, it is agreed by both the Company and the Union that, as a result of fluctuating livestock receipts, variable volume, breakdowns and other circumstances which are beyond the reasonable control of the Company, employees will be required at times to work in excess of the number of hours in their daily schedule or in excess of forty-eight (48) hours in a calendar week. When employees are required to work in excess of the number of hours in their daily or weekly schedule, their supervisor will inform their department steward and will post notice of such in a conspicuous location in the department as early as reasonably possible.
10.5	Overtime shall be distributed as equally as possible among those employees normally performing the work, in accordance with current practice. With respect to overtime required at the end of a scheduled shift, if there are not enough volunteers among the employees normally performing the work, the Company will require the least senior employee(s) on the shift in the department with the qualifications to perform the required work. With respect to all other overtime required, if there are not enough volunteers among the employees normally performing the work, the Company will require the least senior employee(s) in the department with the qualifications to perform the required work.
-16-
(a)	1 Vi Times after forty-two (42) hours. The Company will pay one and one half (1 %) times their regular rates to employees for all hours worked in excess of forty-two (42) hours in a calendar week.
(b)	1 Vi Times for Sunday work. The Company will pay to employees one and one-half (1%) times their regular rate for work performed on Sunday,
(c)	If an employee is paid one and one half (1 %)times their regular rate for any hours worked prior to reaching forty-two (42) hours worked in a calendar week, such hours paid at time and one-half (1%) will not count as part of the forty-two (42) hours worked that are necessary to require further payment of one and one-half (1 %).
10.6
(a)	Paid Breaks
The Company agrees to grant two (2) paid rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each, as scheduled by the Company, for work performed on a shift of greater than six (6)hours. The Company agrees that the first such paid rest period shall not be scheduled in the first hour of such shift. Employees shall be granted one additional rest period of fifteen (15) minutes, as scheduled by the Company, if required to work greater than ten (10) hours.
(b)	Unpaid Meal Break
The unpaid meal period shall be either one ( 1) hour or one half (Vi) hour, as scheduled by the Company.
10.7
(a)	If an employee reports to work at his regularly sched-
uled time and there is no work available for him in his regular job, he will be given four (4)hour’s work at some other job or four (4) hour’s pay at his applicable hourly rate unless he has received previous notification not to report for work. This clause will not apply
-17-
if work is not available as a result of causes beyond the reasonable control of the Company.
(b)	An employee who, after leaving the Company’s premises, is called to return to the plant for an emergency shall be paid for a minimum of four (4) hours at his regular rate.
ARTICLE 11 PLANT HOLIDAYS
11.1	The Company agrees to pay all employees for eight (8) hours at their regular rate of pay for each of the nine (9) holidays listed below regardless of the day on which they fall. If a holiday falls on a Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
In addition to the foregoing, one ( 1) floater holiday will be granted. However, the floating holiday will not apply to any employee during the first year of that employee’s employment, nor will it apply to any employee who is absent for the full year for any reason. The date of observance of this holiday will be determined by mutual agreement between the parties. It is understood that no floating holiday will be allowed during the months of June to September and during the month of December of each year, unless the floating holiday is requested in a week where less than 10% of the employees in the requesting employee’s department are on vacation and the granting of the floating holiday will not unduly interfere with the efficient operation of the department. Employees who do not take their floating holiday shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay at their regular rate to be paid during the first full pay period of December.
-18-
11.2	In the event that the Gove^mentdeclares Heritage Day to be a statutory holiday, then it will replace the floating holiday. The granting of such holiday with pay will be subject to the same conditions which govern the pay of other holidays.
11.3	An employee shall not be eligible for pay for such holidays (except for the floating holiday) if he:
(a)	is absent on the work days immediately preceding or next following any holiday. For the purpose of this provision, a person will be deemed absent if he has not worked at least three (3) complete hours of his scheduled shift unless such absence is due to an illness or injury certified on the day of absence by a Medical Doctor or the plant nurse, or unless such absence is with the permission of the Company. Notwithstanding, an employee who has been absent from work for a period in excess of thirty (30) days as of the date of the holiday shall not be eligible for pay for such holiday subject to the provisions of 11.4.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the work day immediately preceding or next following any holiday is a Saturday or Sunday, an employee will not lose eligibility for the holiday if he or she is absent on such Saturday or Sunday with reasonable cause.
(b)	is on lay off or leave of absence.
11.4	An employee who is receivingW.S.I.B. or Weekly Indemnity benefits during the period when a plant holiday falls shall receive only the amount of pay by which the pay for the holiday exceeds such Weekly Indemnity benefit or W.S.I.B. payment for that day.
11.5	If hourly-rated employees do perform work on any of the nine (9) plant holidays listed above, they shall receive, if eligible, holiday pay, and shall, in addition, be paid time and one half (1%) their regular rates for all hours worked on such days.
-19-
ARTICLE 12 SENIORITY
12.1	New employees will be considered probationary employees for the first ninety (90)days worked of their employment and during their probationary period such employees, who will be entitled to no seniority, may be disciplined, dismissed or laid off at the sole discretion of the Company. At the end of the probationary period the employee will be entered on the seniority list as of the date of original hiring. Employees laid off during their probationary period who are recalled within thirty (30) calendar days, will retain their original hiring date. If recalled after thirty (30) calendar days, they will start back as a new employee.
12.2	Promotions will be made on the basis of ability. When two or more employees are considered by the Company to possess sufficient ability, then seniority will be the governing factor, and the Company will not exercise its discretion in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
12.3	Seniority records will be posted on the bulletin board and revised each six (6) months. A copy of the seniority list shall be given to a Union Representative from the Local Union. If more than one employee is hired on the same day, their names shall be placed on the seniority list in alphabetical order using their surnames.
12.4	Seniority service records shall be considered broken and employment terminated when an employee voluntarily leaves the service of the Company, or is discharged for cause, or has been laid off by the Company for eighteen ( 18) months or longer, or is absent without notifying the Company for more than two (2)working days, unless excused by the Company.
12.5	In the event of a lay-off due to lack of work, the Company will endeavor to give the employees affected five (5) days notice. The President of the Local Union will also be
-20-
given notice of lay-offs.
12.6
(a)	In any case of permanent or indefinite layoffs, seniority shall govern. An employee who is laid off in his own department will be assigned to anotherjob in the same plant, due consideration being given to skill, experience, and the time required to learn thejob.
(b)
(i)	With respect to temporary layoffs, the primary consideration is seniority will govern, with due consideration to skill, ability and the time required to learn the job. The following defines the terminology utilized:
(ii)	“Branch Departments are a room or rooms within the main department, i.e. boning, chilled pork packaging, and cutting room, etc. are branch departments within the Fresh Pork Department.”
(iii)	Quality Meat Packers Main Departments and Branch Departments are currently as follows:
1.	Fresh Pork Department Branch Departments: Cutting, Boning, Chill Pork/ Slicing & Packaging.
2.	Shipping Branch Departments: Shipping, Receiving.
3.	Sanitation
(iv)	Temporary layoffs of less than sixteen ( 16) weeks shall be handled in the following manner:
1.	When reducing the work force within a branch department, the senior most employees will be retained first. If their position has been temporarily eliminated, they will be offered the mostjunior permanent position remaining in the branch department, subject to the considerations set out in paragraph 12.6
(b)	(i) above. If they choose not to bump the
-21-
junior employee, they will be offered the opportunity to accept voluntary lay-off for the duration of the temporary lay-off period.
2.	Once branch departmental staffing is adjusted, those most junior employees displaced, starting with the least senior employee who has more seniority than an employee in the Main department, will have the right to bump into the mostjunior permanent position within the Main department, subject to the considerations set out in paragraph 12.6 (b) (i) above. This process requires that the most junior positions be filled first. If it is not taken by that employee, it will be offered to the next senior employee being displaced, moving up the list until it has been taken or all employees have chosen lay-off rather than exercise bumping rights.
3.	Junior Main department employees displaced will have a right to displace junior employees on the Master Seniority list located in the same plant as the employee displaced, subject to the considerations set out in paragraph 12.6 (b) (i) above. Again, the most junior employees from the Main department are offered the most junior position on the Master List in the same plant. The next most junior employee from the Main department is offered the next most junior position (if the mostjunior position is displaced), moving upward until it has been taken or all employees have chosen lay-off rather than exercise bumping rights.
(c)	The Company will endeavor to give all employees five (5) working days’ notice in writing of a lay off.
- 22 -
(d)
12.7
(a)
(b)
If the employee moves to another department with a different rate, the employee will assume the new rate according to the applicable wage schedule.
Employees recalled to their home departments must return. y
Recall from permanent or indefinite layoffs shall be based on seniority; the last hired shall be the first laid off and the last to be laid off shall be the first recalled, due consideration being given to skill, experience, and the time required to learn thejob.
Employees on temporary layoff will be called back in order of seniority in accordance with the following procedure:
1.	Recall will be to recall those most senior employees overall on layoff and who at layoff requested, in writing, that they be recalled for any job, plant-wide, for which they are qualified and able to perform.
2.	Recall will be those most senior employees who requested, in writing, that they only be recalled for any job within their main department for which they are qualified and able to perform;
3.	Recall will be those most senior employees who requested, in writing, that they only be recalled for any job within their branch department for which they are qualified and able to perform;
4.	Employees taking layoff and have elected to return only to their branch or main department will have the opportunity to change their election after eight (8) complete weeks of layoff. If they do so, they will then be considered for the next available opening according to their choice and they can choose to stay on layoff for another
-23-
eight (8) week period.
5.	It is acceptable for those employees who decide to change their election, to do so by contacting the Company (or Union) by phone prior to start of the next two (2) month period.
6.	Employees must return to their branch department when recalled.
7.	Employees may not stay on layoff if they have been recalled by seniority, once all employees have been recalled.
12.8	Any employee who has been notified by registered letter at his last known address to return to work and within three (3) days has failed to do so, or failed to contact the office, shall be considered to have quit his employment voluntarily and his seniority and employment rights shall thereupon be terminated. When any such notice is sent to any employee by registered letter a copy thereof shall be sent concurrently to the Union.
12.9	One employee, who may be elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union, upon proper notice to be agreed upon by management, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay not to exceed the life of this agreement. Upon one week’s notice of his desire to again return to work for the Company, he shall be placed on hisjob previously held, or one of equal pay, without loss of seniority, provided he is physically fit and capable of performing the work. Leave of absence under this clause will by granted by management in writing.
12.10	Subject to Clause 12. 1 I, if an employee is absent from work because of sickness or accident, he shall not lose his seniority rights and shall also return to the position held prior to his absence, or to one of equal rating, provided he is capable of performing former duties. In the case of such absence it shall be the duty of each employee so absent to
-24-
notify the Company of the reasons for absence and how long he expects his absence will last. The employee will be further required to update the Company on his medical status whenever his medical status changes, and in any event at least once per month.
12.11	The Company may terminate employees on W.S.I.B. benefits or absent due to non occupational sickness or accidents who have been absent- from work for a continuous period for two (2) years plus one (1) day or more but subject to the following conditions;
(a)	any employee so terminated will be entitled to and the Company will continue their benefits package for a three (3) month period from the date of termination;
(b)	any such employee who has been employed by the Company for a period of ten (1O)years or more (including disability or WSIB time) will receive an additional one month of benefits coverage for each full year of employment completed over and above the first ten years to a maximum of seven extra months.
(c)	the maximum entitlement will be ten (1O) months extension based on the above criteria.
The provisions of this Clause 12.11 are subject to the provisions ofthe Workplace Safety Insurance Act and the Human Rights Code.
12.12	Where an employee within the bargaining unit accepts a position outside the unit, plant seniority shall be maintained for six (6) months, at which time it will be determined by the Company ifhe or she is to return to the bargaining unit. An employee in a non-bargaining unit position as at ratification who is transferred to the bargaining unit and who was hired prior to March 1, 1983 will retain his or her full seniority. Company employees who have never been part of the bargaining unit can only be transferred into the bargaining unit as a new employee.
-25-
12.13	Shift preference for the same work will be determined by seniority except for the starting up of a new line where training is required. In this case exceptions to the seniority privilege will apply for six (6) weeks unless determined otherwise by the parties. An employee must work in the branch department and have performed the same work for three (3) consecutive months before he can exercise his right under this clause, also, the employee must have worked the consecutive previous three (3) months on the shift that he desires to leave.
PART TIME
12.14	Part-time employees are employees who are scheduled for twenty-four (24) hours or less in a calendar week, and, notwithstanding any other provision of this collective agreement, are not entitled to the provisions of Articles I 0, 11, 12.1-12.13, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24, Schedule “A”, Memorandum ofAgreement - “B”, Appendix “A” - Article 12 of the collective agreement except as follows:
(a)	Part-time employees will be eligible for public holiday pay for their scheduled hours on such holiday provided that they report for work on their regularly scheduled work-day before and after the holiday.
(b)	Part-time employees with one year’s service or more will be eligible for vacations and vacation pay as set forth in the Employment Standards Act of Ontario.
(c)	A part time employee will be paid the same wage rate as a full time employee performing the samejob.
12.15	The Company agrees that it will not lay off any existing full time employee for the purpose of replacing such full time employee with a multiple number of part-time employees.
12.16
(a) No employee hired prior to October 31, 1998, shall be assigned to the part-time classification. This does
-26-
not prohibit full time employees from applying for a part time job posting and being accepted as part time should they elect to do so. If they are accepted as part-time they will assume part-time status and will only be entitled to the provisions of the Collective Agreement set out herein as applicable to part time employees.
(b)	Part-time employees can exercise their seniority only amongst other part-time employees for the purpose of maximizing their hours within the twenty-four (24) hour qualification subject to their ability to perform the available work.
(c)	Seniority shall be based on the last date of hire.
(d)	The twenty-four (24) hour maximum qualification for part-time status is based on a three month average to be calculated at March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year. The hours used in the calculation shall exclude those hours assigned to replace vacations and absences due to sickness/accident.
(e)	Part time employees will be entitled to single coverage benefits after they have completed their probationary period, less Weekly Indemnity and dental benefits, upon satisfying the waiting period.
(f)	Part time employees shall have the right to apply for a full time posting but will be given no preference over any other inside candidate but will be given preference, if qualified over an outside candidate.
(g)	time employees hired by the Company shall be considered as probationary employees until they have completed seven hundred and twenty (720) hours worked, during which time they may be discharged or disciplined for any reason within the Company’s discretion. The Company may not discharge the employee for purposes of enforcing additional proba-
-27 -
tionary period. Upon completion of the seven-hundred and twenty (720) hours worked, the employee shall be either discharged or placed on the part time seniority list as of the date of the commencement of his probationary period.
12.17 Any additional work required on any given day that cannot be handled by either full time or part time employees scheduled that day will be offered to qualified full time employees available at work on that day before any part time employees are called in.
ARTICLE 13 VACATIONS
13.1	Vacations will be based on service with the Company computed to July 1st in the year in which the vacation is to be taken.
13.2	All employees on the Company’s payroll for a period of less than twelve (12) months prior to July 1st in any year shall be entitled to vacation pay at the rate of 4% of such employee’s earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st in that year in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
13.3	Employees on the Company’s payroll as of July 1st in any year who have one ( 1) year or more of service as of July 1st shall be entitled to two (2) weeks’ vacation and shall receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent to 4% of such employee’s total earnings during the twelve months (12) immediately preceding July 1st in that year.
13.4	Employees on the Company’s payroll as of July 1st in any year who have five ( 5) years or more of service as of July 1st shall be entitled to three (3) weeks’ vacation and shall receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent to 6% of such employee’s total earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st in that year.
- 28 -
13.5	Employees on the Company’s payroll as of July 1st in any year who have ten ( 10) years or more of service as of July lst shall be entitled to four (4)weeks’ vacation and shall receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent to 8% of such employee’stotal earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st in that year.
13.6	Employees on the Company’s payroll as of July lstin any year who have twenty (20) years or more of service as of July 1st shall be entitled to five (5 )weeks’ vacation and shall receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent to 10% of such employee’s total earnings during the twelve (12)months immediately preceding July 1st in that year.
13.7	Only employees on the Company’s payroll who have twenty-five (25) years or more of service as of January 29, 1999, and are currently entitled to six (6)weeks vacation and who receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent of 12% of such employees prior year’s earnings, shall continue to receive said entitlement. This entitlement shall not increase or decrease for the duration of this collective agreement.
13.8	Total earnings shall include regular pay, overtime pay and other premiums, but exclude vacation pay previously paid, W.S.I.B. payments and any other amounts not received directly from the Company.
13.9	An employee who is discharged or quits without notice shall receive, with his last pay before leaving the plant, vacation allowance in accordance with the Employment Standards Act. An employee who resigns after giving one ( 1) week’s notice shall receive vacation pay in accordance with his entitlement, i.e. 4%, 6%, 8%, 10% or 12%.
13.10
(a)	Vacations may be granted at any time subject to the demands of the business but the Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacations at times requested by employees, in order of seniority all employees
-29-
(b)
13.11
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
shall select their vacations prior to February 28 of each year and the department vacation list shall be posted by March 15 of each year. Vacation scheduled must be taken and cannot be cancelled.
Vacation of four (4) consecutive weeks: Although three (3) weeks is the maximum allowable vacation to be taken in any vacation year during prime months (June, July, August and September), employees with the required seniority may be able to take up to four (4) weeks vacation during these months. However, in order to get this time the employee must meet the following criteria:
•	Request for this time must be made and confirmed in writing.
•	Request for this time must be made prior to Feb. 28th of the vacation year.
•	An employee will only be allowed this benefit once in a three (3) year period.
•	If more than one eligible employees applies for this benefit for a given period, determination as to who will get this time will be made on a seniority basis.
Employees shall take their vacations in the year in which they become eligible for it. Vacations shall not be accumulated from year to year.
Employees that are eligible for two (2) weeks or more of vacation time must take a minimum of two (2) weeks vacation in the calendar year.
Vacationpay will be paid consistent with the number of weeks of vacation taken.
Employees who have not taken their vacation time off by September 1st in any calendar year will receive their vacation payment owing in the first week of September.
-30-
13.12	If a paid plant holiday falls within an employee’s vacation period, the Company will either allow the employee concerned a compensatory day’s holiday with pay or make payment for the holiday.
13.13	The Company agrees to pay Vacation Pay on separate cheque or by separate deposit.
ARTICLE 14 MISCELLANEOUS
14.1	Present laundry service for employees shall be maintained.
Leave of Absence
14.2	When an employee’s personal affairs make it desirable for him to be relieved temporarily from Company duties, leave of absence without pay beyond regular vacation to which an employee is entitled, may be granted for good and sufficient reasons, provided all vacation credits have been exhausted. No leave of absence will be considered from June to September, inclusive, unless compelling personal circumstances can be established. Seniority shall accumulate during a leave of absence. In the event a personal leave requires travel out of province, the Company reserves the right to require reasonable production of proof of travel documentation as a condition of approving such leave of absence.
14.3	Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing any employee to take anotherpositiontemporarily, to hy out new ventures, or to venture into business for himself.
14.4	Leave of absence, before being granted, must be requested in writing and confirmed in writing by the Company.
14.5	The Company will provide the employees with sharpened tools. In the event that the tools have not been sharpened, then the Company will allow the employee rea-31 -
sonable time for the sharpening of the tools.
14.6	The Company will allow employees adequate relief as well as necessary time for changing clothing or equipment necessitated by a change in working conditions.
14..7 Bereavement Pay
(a)	In case of death in the immediate family, an employee who has acquired seniority will be allowed three (3) work days off without loss of pay between the date of death and two (2) working days following the date of the funeral, provided the days off are his otherwise scheduled working days and provided the employee attends the funeral.
For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be one of the following: wife, husband, daughter, son, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandmother, grandfather and grandchildren.
The Company reserves the right to require satisfactory proof of the bereavement as a condition of providing bereavement pay as prescribed in this Article. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall accept reasonable reasons from employees who are unable to provide proof if required by the Company.
(b)	A seniority employee will be allowed leave with pay for the day of the funeral of a member of the immediate family if the employee is unable to attend the funeral.
(c)	An employee who attends the funeral of a sister-inlaw or brother-in-law shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay at his regular rate for the day of the funeral. Such payment will only be made if the day of the funeral is the employee’s regular work day.
14.8	Injury Shift Guarantee
An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for hours he would have worked
-32-
but were necessarily lost on the day on which the accident occurred and/or up to three (3) subsequent absences within six (6) weeks of the date of the accident if, as a result of such injury, he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department but, if such is not possible, then by a Company Representative. Amounts received under W.S.I.A. for such time shall be deducted from benefits due under this section.
14.9	Company Supplied Equipment
(a)	The Company will furnish employees with seniority, knives, steels, oilskins, whetstones, scabbards, aprons, rubber gloves, and rubber boots specified by the Company as required for work in accordance with the following:
(i)	New employees will be charged for the above tools but will be reimbursed after their probationary period.
(ii)	Employees must return worn or damaged tools and equipment before being supplied with replacements. Failing to return such worn or damaged tools and equipment, the employee will be charged for the full replacement value.
(iii)	An employee who attempts to return another employee’s tools or equipment for replacement purposes will be subject to instant dismissal.
(b)	Launderable work clothing, gloves, hairnets and head coverings specified by the Company as required for work will be supplied to the employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and, except with permission, shall not be removed from the Company’s premises and must be returned when worn out or upon separation of the employee. Clothing not returned will be paid for by the employee. The Company will make the necessary arrangements for the laundering of washable clothing.
--33-
Rubberized Safety Boots will be governed by the following:
(i)	Empioyees must at all times during working hours wear Rubberized Safety Boots that comply with the established guidelines as set out by the Company for use in the facility. Such boots must be properly treaded and otherwise be in satisfactory condition. Any employee who is not wearing such boots is subject to being sent home without pay, until proper boots are obtained.
(ii)	The Company will stock at least one style of Rubberized Safety Boot, as it selects from time to time, in standard sizes. An employee who has completed his probationary period prior to January l st in any year may elect to obtain his Rubberized Safety Boots from the Company, from such stock, for such year. Alternatively, such employee may elect to be provided with an annual allowance of one hundred and ten (llO)dollars (one hundred and thirty (130) dol-
for employees classified as freezer personnel) for his own purchase of Rubberized Safety Boots that comply with established guidelines as aforesaid. Such allowance will be paid in two equal installments, one installment to be paid with the last regular paycheque in January, the other with the last regular paycheck in July. It is understood and agreed that only employees who have actively worked for the Company in the six-month period prior to the payment of a boot allowance installment will be eligible for such installment. New hires and employees who have not completed their probationary period by January 1st in any year will not be entitled to an election and will be required to obtain their Rubberized Safety Boots for such year from
-34-
Company stock, unless otherwise agreed by the Company. Employees entitled to an election of an allowance in any year must make such election on or before January 1 Oth of such year, failing which, Rubberized Safety Boots must be obtained from Company stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, maintenance employees who elect an allowance will be entitled to use a portion of such allowance for the purchase of safety footwear used in hot work (welding, etc.).
14.10	Employees who are required to work 10.4 hours or more on any day will be provided with a meal or granted a meal allowance of $7.00.”
14.11	Tradesman or other skilled trades workers with one ( 1) or more years of seniority in the mechanical department shall receive a tool allowance as follows:
Maintenance Classification Group “7” - “11* 1 (per wage Schedule “B”) - $200.00 per year
All other Maintenance Classification Groups -$110.00 per year
Effective January 1,2011, i ncrease tool allowance for maintenance classification groups “7” to “11” from $200 to $220 per year.
This tool allowance shall be used for the purposes of replacing broken or worn out tools, or to purchase tools that are necessary to perform thejobs to which they are assigned.
This tool allowance shall be paid in advance in the month of January; employees who leave the service of the Company before December 31. shall reimburse the Company on a prorated basis.
14.12	Pregnancy/Parental Leave
Leave of absence because of pregnancy or parental leave, including for adoption, will be granted in accordance
-35-
with the Employment Standards Act.
14.13	Appearance in Court
An employee summoned to appear or required to servejury duty, or one who has been served with a subpoena to appear as a witness, shall be paid the difference between what he would have earned for his scheduled hours at his paid rate and the court fee received. Employees should notify their Supervisor as soon as possible after receipt of notice of selection for jury duty or after receipt of the subpoena to appear as a witness.
The Company may require the employee to furnish a certificate of service from an officer of the court before making any payment under this section. The employee will come to work during those regular hours that he is not required to attend court.
14.14	The Company will observe a two (2) minute silence for all employees on "Remembrance Day".
14.15	The Company agrees to contribute one thousand (1000) dollars to the UFCW Leukemia Fund on November 1 st of each year of the contract.
14.16	The cost of printing the collective agreement will be shared on a 50/50 basis. Both Union & Company logos to appear on cover. Printing to be done by 'Thistle Printing'.
14.17	The Company agrees to provide the Plant Chairperson with an updated copy of wages and classifications every six months.
ARTICLE IS SAFETY AND HEALTH
15.1	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices on machinery and other devices deemed necessary to properly protect employ-36-
ees from injury shall be provided by the Company. All such protective devices shall remain the property of the Company.
15.2	The Company and the Union will each appoint respective members to a safety committee (not more than two (2) members from each party). The committee’s function will be to assist the management in promoting safety and industrial hygiene in the plant and carrying out a reasonable accident prevention program by such means as periodic plant inspection, etc.
15.3	The Company- will provide up to ten (10) days per year with pay for Union representation to attend safety seminars, etc. - not more than two (2) people from one unit and not more than five (5) days for each individual, inclusive of time required for certification of safety committee certified members, on the recommendation of the safety committee.
ARTICLE 16
LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
16.1	The parties will establish a Labour Management Committee consisting of not more than four (4) representatives from each side. Once established, the Committee will determine its own agenda and procedure of operation.
ARTICLE 17 UNION NOTICES
17.1	The Company will provide the Union with a bulletin board at each plant. The Company will permit Union officers who are employed by the Company to post notices of Union meetings and other matters of interest to Union members, provided all such notices are first approved by the Company. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Company will alsoprovide the Plant Chairperson with a lock and key for the bulletin boards.
-37-
ARTICLE 18
HEALTH, WELFARE AND PENSION PLAN
18.1	The Company and the Union agree to the Health and Welfare Plan as follows:
The Company agrees to pay the premium for the Health and Welfare Plan referred to in the agreement, which provides the following benefits to all eligible employees with seniority in accordance with the rules and regulations of the carrier.
Life Insurance and A.D. & D. - $35,000.00
Weekly Accident and Sickness Benefits (payable from the 1st work day of accident or, hospitalization or from the 4th work day of illness for a period of two weeks and from the 18th week until the 37th week inclusive):
The weekly benefit will be equal to 7096 of weekly earnings subject to the maximum maintained by the Employment Insurance Act, as determined at time of disability.
NOTE:	Employment Insurance Sickness Benefits will be
claimed by the employee from the 3rd week to the 17th week inclusive.
Major Medical Plan (employee and dependants)
The Company agrees to provide a major medical plan subject to the following:
A generic drug card will be provided to all seniority employees, subject to generic substitution and other customary exclusions.
$10.00 per year deductible (single)
$20.00 per year deductible (family)
Paying 1 OOo/O of balance of eligible expenses
Vision Care Plan (employees and dependants)
$170.00 maximum per person each twenty-four (24) months.
-38-
Effective November 1, 2011: Increase to $190 per person each twenty-four (24)months.
Effective November 1, 2012: Increase to $200 per person each twenty-four (24) months.
The coverage on the major medical plan is limited to:
(a)	ward hospital coverage;
(b)	a maximum of $7 .00 for any dispensing fees charged and claimed as part of eligible expenses;
Effective January 1, 2011, increase dispensing fee maximum from $7 .00 to $8.50.
Effective January 1, 2012, increase dispensing fee maximum from $8.50 to $9.00.
(c)	with respect to dental plan, an employee may only claim for recall exams and x-rays once every 9 months;
(d)	coverage for Physiotherapy is capped at $500 per calendar year for the employee and each dependant.
(e)	Total coverage for orthotics shall not exceed $600 per family every twenty-four (24) months. The orthotics must be prescribed by a physician.
Dental Plan (employees and dependants)
Effective December 1, 2010, the Company agrees to pay the premium cost of a dental plan which will provide the benefits listed below to all eligible employees with seniority with the rules and regulations of the carrier. The Company commits to maintaining the level of benefits throughout the life of the agreement. Benefits provided and terms of the plan, listed below, shall remain as provided under the UFCW Trusteed Dental Plan Ontario as of November l, 2010, subject to the Company’s right, in its sole discretion, to provide greater benefits.
For greater certainty, it is acknowledged that the following benefit terms are provided:
-39-
Effective January 1, 2011 Effective January 1,2012 Effective January 1, 2013 Effective January I, 2014
2010	O.D.A. Schedule
2011	O.D.A. Schedule
2012	O.D.A. Schedule
2013	O.D.A. Schedule
Waiting Period - employees will not be eligible for dental plan coverage until the first of the month following their completion of 6 months of full-time service.
Annual Deductible - single $20 for a plan member or any dependant with a combined limit of $50 for a family.
Basic Services - reimbursed at 90%.
Recall Exams -every 9 months.
Major Restorative Services -reimbursed at 80%.
Crowns and Caps Coverage -reimbursed at 50%.
Combined Annual Maximum for Above Services -$1,500 ($750 for balance of calendar year if complete waiting period on/after July 1st).
Orthodontic Services -reimbursed at 6090 and coverage for eligible dependant children under age 19, unless at full time attendance at school, in which case age of 25. Subject to lifetime maximum of $2,000.
Employees shall continue to be enrolled in the UFCW Trusteed Dental Plan Ontario until midnight November 30, 2010. The Company shall continue to pay the UFCW Trusteed Dental Plan Ontario at the rates applicable in the 2007 to 20 I 0 Collective Agreement until such date. The UFCW Trusteed Dental Plan Ontario will not be responsible for claims incurred by the employees on or after December 1, 2010. The Dental Fund will require a letter signed by the Company and the Union terminating the aforementioned participation.
It is understood and agreed that, effective December I, 2010, the Company will have no further obligation to make any contributions, remittances or other payments of any character to the UFCW Trusteed Dental Plan Ontario notwithstanding the terms and conditions of the Participate -
tion Agreement, or any other agreement to the contrary. It is understood and acknowledged by the Union and the Participation Agreement and any other agreement calling for remittances and contributions to that plan are to be rendered null and void effective December I, 2010.
Pension Plan
(a)	(i) Effective September 1, 2010, and for the dur-
ation of this agreement, lhe Company agrees to contribute to the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan (“pension plan”) ninety-five (95) cents per hour for all hours paid and worked for seniority employees. Hours paid and worked is defined as regular hours, overtime hours (hour for hour), vacation, paid holidays, bereavement andjury duty to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week and/or 2000 hours per annum per employee, but shall not include Weekly Indemnity or Workers’ Safety and Insurance payments. There will be an additional amount of $0.40 per hour paid to the Stabilization Fund of the pension plan over the life of the agreement.
(ii)	The Company agrees to sign a “Participation Agreement” and supply any other relevant documents, forms, reports or information, in a form acceptable to the Company, that are reasonably required by the Trustees of the pension plan for the administration of the plan. The Company shall forward all contributions together with a list of all full time employees and the number' of hours paid and worked for each employee in each reporting period, within fifteen (15) days following the end of the Company’s four (4) week accounting period.
(iii)	Beyond payment of the required contributions
-41 -
as set out in paragraph (a) (i) above, the Union acknowledges and agrees that the Company has no responsibility for any costs or expenses associated with the maintenance and administration of the pension plan, except any late remittance charges that the Trustees are required to levy on contributions not remitted on time, including without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the filing of any Information Returns required by the Pension Commission. For greater certainty, it is agreed that the Company assumes no responsibility for pension benefits provided by the pension plan.
(iv)	Any and all terms and conditions of this agreement regarding the pension plan are subject to the provisions of the Pension Benefits Act and any other applicable legislation, regulations and any orders or directions of any regulatory authorities to which the parties are subject.
ARTICLE 19
WEEKLY PAY GUARANTEE
19.1	The Company guarantees to each employee with seniority pay equivalent to thirty-seven (37) hours of work at the employee’s regular rate of pay for each week of work. However, notwithstanding the Articles of this Collective Agreement, the Company may, for each shift in a department, reduce the weekly guarantee to thirty-two (3 2) hours to a maximum of ten (1O) weeks per year.
Such guarantee shall be reduced by any or all of the following:
(a)	For every hour worked and or paid, hour for hour.
(b)	For all time lost by the employee due to lateness or absence from work.
(c)	For refusing to perform the work assigned, in accord-
-42-
ance with 19.2 below.
19.2	It is understood that the Company shall be free to distribute work within all departments and to transfer employees from one department to another, provided the work does not involve extreme changes in working conditions.
19.3	The weekly pay guarantee will only apply to employees hired prior to October 31, 1998.
ARTICLE 20 JOB POSTING
20.1
(a) When a permanent job vacancy occurs within a branch department, employees within that branch department shall be permitted at their request to be considered for the vacancy under the conditions outlined in the provisions of Section 12.2. When a vacancy within a branch department cannot be satisfactorily filled from within the branch department affected, the Company will post notice of vacancy throughout the plant for a period of three (3) working days and employees will be considered under the conditions outlined in the provisions of Section 12.2. Only the original plus three (3) subsequent vacancies will be posted. All permanent job vacancies to be filled should be posted within fifteen (15) working days.
In the event that an employee is absent due to sickness, accident or vacation when a vacancy is posted, the Steward may apply on behalf of such employee so that the employee may be considered for the position, provided that he or she re^ms to work within a reasonable period of time. The employee on leave of absence shall be excluded from thejob posting clause.
The Company will not be required to consider an employee who has been transferred as a result of the provi-
_ 43 _
sions of this clause within the previous six (6) months.
New employees will be excluded from thejob posting clause for the first year of their employment.
Employees with less than three (3) years’ seniority with the Company can only bid for a job opening in his group or in a group of a higher pay than their own.
(b) A successful applicant will be given an opportunity of fulfilling the duties of the new position during a reasonable trial period of thirty (30) working days. If the employee fails to meet the requirements of thejob at any time during the trial period, he will be retted to his formerjob.
20.2	TemporaryVacancies
(a)	Temporary vacancies created as a result of the change in production or introduction of a new process expected to be at least thirteen ( 13) weeks in duration will be posted. If they exist beyond twenty-six (26) weeks, they will be posted as permanent position. However, the incumbent will be given the first opportunity to accept the aforementioned position. Only one subsequent vacancy will be posted as a result of the foregoing and upon completion of this process, the employees will revert to their original positions.
(b)	If temporary vacancies are created as a result of absenteeism due to sickness or accident, and the vacancy is expected to be at least thirteen (13) weeks in duration, notice of such vacancies will be posted on the Company bulletin board. Only one subsequent vacancy will be posted as a result of the foregoing and upon completion of this process, the employees will revert to their original positions.
-44-
ARTICLE 21 EMPLOYMENT AGE
21.1	No person will be employed who is less than the minimum applicable legal age prescribed by the Occupational Health & Safety Act.
ARTICLE 22
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT
The Company may employ students for summer and other school vacation periods and also students who are in co-op programs with the following limitations.
(a)	Students other than those in co-op programs may only be hired between April lstand September 30th and for a maximum of two weeks at the Easter or Christmas Holiday period unless otherwise agreed by the Union.
(b)	No more than three (3) co-op students will be employed and each individual co-op student cannot work more than four (4) months per annum unless otherwise agreed by the Union.
Student employees will not acquire seniority rights or recall rights and may be terminated at the sole discretion of the Company at any time.
Student employees will pay Union dues but are not entitled to the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement other than payment in accordance with the following:
In the first calendar year	$9.00 per hour
In the second consecutive
calendar year	$9 .50 per hour
In the third consecutive calendar year and
consecutive years thereafter $10.00 per hour
-45-
ARTICLE 23
SKILLS ENHANCEMENT
Employees may be offered training to gain the skills and experience necessary to enable them to be pre-qualified for potential future opportunities requiring greater skills.
Where the Company creates such training opportunities they will be posted and employees will be selected for the opportunity in accordance with the provisions of Article 12.2 of this agreement.
Employees selected for training opportunities will be paid at their currentjob rate on a straight time basis regardless of when the training is offered.
ARTICLE 24
GOOD ATTENDANCE BONUS
Any employee on the payroll for a full calendar year with good attendance and who is not absent for more than five (5) days in that year will receive an attendance bonus of$900.00 gross, to be paid by the end of January of the following year. This amount shall also be paid to all eligible employees who qualify for the 2010 year. Days of absence due to vacation or approved leave of absence pursuant to Article 1.1 (b), 7.3 (b), 14.2, 14.7, 14. 12, 14.13 or 15.2 ofthe collective agreement will not count as days absent for the purpose of this provision. Thepayment schedule will be as follows for those employees eligible:
$900 payable January 2011 for the 2010 qualifying year $900 payable January 2012 for the 2011 qualifying year $900 payable January 2013 for the 2012 qualifying year $900 payable January 2014 for the 2013 qualifying year
ARTICLE 25 SIGNING BONUS
The Company agrees to pay one ( 1) signing bonus of $550
-46-
gross for employees actively employed on the date of ratification. Such bonus to be paid as a separate deposit within three (3) weeks after written notice of ratification.
ARTICLE 26
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
26.1	This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from November 1,2010 to and including October 31, 2014, and as it may be extended as required by the terms of the Labour Relations Act, 1995, and from year to year thereafter unless either party gives notice in writing to the other party of termination or of amendment at any time within ninety (90) calendar days prior to the date of expiration of this Agreement.
26.2	During the period of negotiations resulting from any of the provisions above, this agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
26.3	The parties agree to sign the Collective Agreement within thirty (30) days of receipt of written notification of ratification by the Union.
Signed this 12th day of April. 2Q11.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
David Schwartz_______ Frank Menezes______________
Sheldon Garfinkle	John Caldeira_________
Fernando Amorim	Nuno Flamino__________
Valdemar Da Silva_____
Joe Silva_____________
Matt Davenport________
-47-
APPENDIX “A”
The following are the changes or. additions applicable when applying this consolidation to Toronto Abattoirs Limited.
ARTICLE 7
SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES
7.2	The Union agrees to appoint or elect a maximum of eight (8) stewards, including one (I) Chief Steward.
ARTICLE 8 WAGES
8.1	All employees will be classified in accordance with the Classification Schedule included in this Agreement as Schedule B and be paid at the rate assigned for the classification pursuant to the Wage Schedule applicable to them.
ARTICLE 12 SENIORITY
12.1	The seniority of employees of the previous Company shall date from October l, 1960.
12.6 For the purpose of Article 12.6, the Departments of the Company are as follows:
1.	Casing/Offal/Inedible
2.	Stockyard
3.	Kill Floor
4.	Maintenance
5.	Sanitation
SCHEDULE “B”
The Classification “Appendix B” which forms part of this Appendix applies to Toronto Abattoirs Limited.
- 48 -
APPENDIX “B’’
Wage & Group Schedule EffectiveNovember 1, 2010 to October 31, 2014
Clasj	Current	Nov. 1, 9011	Nov. I, 2012	Nov. 1, 2013
I	$13.20	$13.50	$ 13.8 5	$14.25
2	$13.20	$13.50	$13.85	$14.25
3	$14.35	$14.65	$15.00	$15.40
4	$15.80	$16.10	$16.45	$16.85
5	$17.20	$ 17.50	$17.85	$18.25
6	$18.20	$18.50	$18.85	$19.25
7	$22.30	$22.60	$22.95	$23.35 I
8	$23.55	$23.85	$24.20	$24.60
9	$24.25	$24.55	$24.90	$25.30
10	$25.00	$ 25.3 0	$25.65	$26.05
n	$25.75	$26.05	$ 26.40	$26.80
-49-
APPENDIX ‘‘C”
Job Classifications
TorontoAbattoirs Limited Toronto, Ontario
HOG SLAUGHTER
Job	TAL Wage Group
Bung Cutting Machine	4
Clean Front Feet	3
Clean Liver And Stamp Est. #	2
Clean Tenders	3
Contamination Identifier & Hip Inspector	4
Cut Back Fat And Umbilical Chord	4
| Cut Ears For Pet Food	3 1
| Drive Hogs 3 |	
Drop Heads	4
Drop Tongues / Plucks	6
Eviscerate & H-Bone Cutter (Rotation)	6
Feed And Control Butina	5
Feed Butina	2
Garn Table	4
General Labour	1
Held Rail	6
Hog Receiver	5
| Neck Washer	3 1
Operate Brisket Saw	5
Operate Shower Switch	3
Operate Hog Splitting Saw	6
Pop Kidneys For Inspection	4
Re: Liver I Feed Casing Room	4
Re: Umbilical Chord / Opening Belly	5
-50-
I Job	TAL Wage Group |
Relief Person	6
Relief Person (Up To Group 3)	3
Remove Gland From Jaw	4
Remove Heads	3
Remove Heart And Lung	3
Remove Kidneys	2
Remove Leaf Fat	4
Remove Skirt Meat	3
| Remove Spinal Cord	2 |
| Remove Stick Wound	3 1
Scalding Tank Operator	5
Scrape Leaf Lard From Belly	4
Service Chill Room	5
Shackling	5
Shave-Direct Hogs To Dressing	2
Sticker	6
Switch (Feed Dressing Line)	3
Trolley Washer	3
^TIDC DataTerminal ControVfattoo Entry (Rotation)	6
| Viscera Presentation / Remove Uteri	2 1
	
Job	TAL Wage Group
Bone Heads	3
Feed Jaw Breaker	2
Scalp Heads And Pull Snouts	3
Trim Ears	3
Trim Snouts	3
Trim Tongues	3
CASING ROOM
Job	TAL Wage Groupl
Cut Bungs	2
Feed Bung Flushing Machine	2
Feed Runners To Conveyor	4
Flush Bungs	2
| General Labour	i l
Inedible Products	2
Operate Casing Machines	5
| Product In Drums And Iced	2 1
Pull Bungs	2
Pull Runners (Airknife)	4
Pull Spleens	3
Pull Stomachs	3
Relief Person (Up To Group 3)	3
ReliefPerson (Up To Group 5)	5
Salt Runners In The Drums	3
Trim Diaphragms	3
Trim Stomachs	3
Trimming Bungs I Remove Uteri	4
Turn Bungs Inside Out	2
Wash Stomachs	2
CASING COOLER
Job	TAL Wage Group
Pack Pancreas, Bungs, Skirt Meat	2
Product In Drums To B.R.T.	a
-52-
OFFAL ROOM
	
Pack & Scale (Livers, Ears, Snouts, Etc.)	3
Palletize And Scanning	3
Prepare Boxes	2
Scale And Strapping		4	1
	
Job	TAL Wage Group
Inedible (Loading Waste)	2
Operate Lard Room	5
Pick U p Inedible And Bones Open	4
waste water /\nu Niucosa	4
-53-
Quality Meat Packers Limited Toronto, Ontario
CUTTING ROOM
Job	QMP Wage Group
B.B.Q. Side Ribs (Costco)	5
Bagging Cartons	2
Boning Hocks & Relief (Butcher)	5
Boning Rough Picnics	5
Boning Tenderloin End (Costco)	5
Checking Hams	4
Checking Shoulders	4
Cleaning Room	2
Cleani ng Condensation	2
| Cleaning Held Product	5 1
Cutting Fat	2
Cutting Hock & Front Foot	3
Cutting Neck Bones	3
Cutting Neck Fat	4
Cutting Packing Hind Feet	3
Cutting Side Rib Breast Bones	4
Driving In The Hallway	4
Driving In The Room	4
Feed Skinning Machines (Nyk, Jowl)	2
Floor Scale Operator	4
Grade & Split New Yorks	3
Gradin g Bellies	3
Grading Loins	3
Ham Sorting Operator	3
Injector Operator	4
Lifting Side Ribs	5
-54-
Job	Wage Group
Line Cartons To Scale	2
Line Up & Marking Bellies	3
Line U p & Cartoons Gas Flush	2
Line Up S ides & Remove Jowls	3
Lining U p Bellies (Rotation)	5
Lining Up Hams & Hind Feet	4
Lining Up Hind Feed	3
Lining U p Shoulders	3
Loin Puller Operator	4
Making Cartons	2
Making Combos	2
Operate Gasflush Machine	3
Operate Scale	4
Pack Butts	2
Pack Neck Fat	2
Pack Nyk Fat	2
Pack Picnics	2
Packing Back Fat	2
Packing Back Rind	2
Packing Belly Rind	2
Packing Front Feet & Tails	2
Packing Gelatin Rinds	2
Packing Hams	2
Packing Hocks	2
Packing Loins	2
Packing Neck Bones	2
Packing Side Ribs (Rotation)	2
Palletizes (Loops)	3
| Pushing Chill Hogs	3 1
-55-
Job	Ql\IP Wage Group
Pushing Fresh Hogs	3
Relief Person (Up To Group 3)	3
Relief Person (Up To Group 5)	5
Relief Up To Group 4	4
Rem Neck Bones, Nyk Fat & Jowl	5
Rem Side Ribs Turning Bellies (Rotation)	2
Removing Lug Fat	5
Removing Tails	5
Scale Operators	4
Selecting & Checking Side Ribs	3
Selecting & Grading Butts	3
Selecting Hams (Pillers & USA)	2
Selecting Loins	3
Setting Up Room	2
Setting Up Room & Serv. Back Up	4
Sharpening Knives	3
Splitting Middles	4
Supply Ham Sorter And Control Chutes	2
Tanking Loins	2
Trim Butts	4
Trim Neck Fat	3
Trim Picnics	4
Trimming Bellies	4
Trimming Costco Loins	5
Trimming Front Feet	3
Trimming Loins	5
Trimming Nyk Fat	3
Trimming Rib In Rind On Bellies (Rotation)	5
Turning Bellies	2
-56-
Job	Ql\IP Wage Group
Vac-Pack Machine Operator	3
Weighing Skids	2
Wizard Trim Back Fat 60%	3
Wrapping Loins (Costco)	2
BONING #1 LOINS
Job	WageGroupl
Feather & Back Bones 5	
Feed Line (Rotation)	2
Loin Chine Bone Remover (Rotation)	5
Packing Back Ribs	2
Packing Back Ends	2
Pulling Tender	2
Relief Person (Up To Group 3)	3
Relief Person (Up To Group 5)	5
Remove Tender	5
Select Backs & Remove Ends	5
Select PSE	5
Setting Up Room	2
Setting Up Room & Serv. B/Up	4
Tail Bones And Back Ribs	5
Trimming Backs	5
Trimming Tenderloins	3
Wrapping Backs	2
Wrapping Tenders	2
-57-
BONING #2 NEW YORK’S
Job	Ql\IP Wage Group
Boning Shoulders	5
Check And Tank Trim	4
Feed Line (Rotation)	2
Machine Operator	3
Relief Person (Butcher)	5
Remove Capicola	5
Rib Gun Boning Room	3
Setting Up Room	2
Trim	5
Wizard Knives	4
Wrap Capicola	2
| Wrap Shoulders	2
BONING #3 HAMS
Job	Q^ Wage Group
Boning Hams	5
Defatting Hams	5
Inspect & Final Trimmer	5
Relief Person	5
Setting Up Room	2
Setting Up Room & Service	4
Skinning & Feed Line	3
Trim Hams	5
Wizard Knives	1
-58-
CHILL PORK/SLICING & PACKAGING
|| Job	QMP Wage Grom |
|| Check &Verify Weights	3 1
Feeding Tiromat Machine	2
Forming Cartons & Feed Table	2
Label & Pack Product	2
Operate Machine	2
Scale	4
Scale Operator / Service	4
Service & Palletize	4
Trimming & Slicing Chops	4
Unwrap Meat	2
Wrap & Pack	2
SHIPPING RECEIVING
Job	QMP Wage Group
| Picker	
	
SANITATION
Chemicals Dis enser	QMPWa eGrou£
Day Cleaner	
Department Cleaner (Nifeht)	i .,, . _ 	1	z	
-59-
| Job	Ql\1P WageGroi |
| 8600 Cryovac Operator	4 1
| Cleaning Boning & Pack Rooms	2 1
| Forming Cartons	2 1
General Labour	1
Packing Offal’s	2
Packing Trims	2
Packing Vac Products	2
Palletize	2
Relief Up To Group #2	2
Relief Up To Group #4	4
Rework Leakers & Relief	3
Saw Man	4
Scale & Label Trims	4
Scale Offal’ s	4
Scale Vac Pack Products	4
| Service Person	4 1
| Skinning Hams	3 1
1 Supply Dry Goods	4 1
I Tanking & Transfer Bones	4 1
| Tanking Trims	2
- 60 -
Maintenance
Job Description	:iroup 11	Requirements and Duties
Electrician/ Technician		Must hold a valid Ontario Electricial License. Develops machine and process control systems. Performs PLC programming, repairs and troubleshooting on allelectrical and electromechanical related devices.
Electrician -Licensed	10	Must hold a valid Ontario Electrical License. Performs repairs and troubleshooting on all electrical and electromechanical related devices.
Millwright	9	Must hold a valid Ontario Millwright License. Primarily Responsible for maintenance of production equipment.
Refrigeration Mechanic	9	Must hold valid Ontario Refrigeration Mechanics’ License and/or Valid Operating Engineers Certificate.
Plumber -Licensed	9	Must hold a valid Ontario Plumbers’ License.
Electrician -Non-Licensed	8	Same duties as a Licensed Electrician. Can move up to the higher group with a valid License.
Production Mechanic	8	Same duties as Millwright except without a valid License. Can move up to the higher group with a valid License.
General Mechanic	I	Duties include Fabrication,Welding, Pipe Fitting, Plumbing, Equipment Installation, Material handling, eauioment repairs.
Building Trades	7	Includes Carpenters, Forming and Concrete, Bricklayers and Painters.
-61-
lob Description	Group	Requirements and Duties
Mechanics Helper	3	Minimal Mechanical Knowledge.
apprenticeship Program		The Apprentice must provide written documentation from the program coordinator that he/she has successfully completed their respective school tenn and has moved up to the next highest year of studies within the program. -	1st year 70% of Group Rate. -	2nd year 80o/o of Group Rate. -	3rd year 90% of Group Rate. -	4th year 95% of Group Rate.
The Company reserves the right to modify the Job Requirements and /or duties for all existing jobs at Quality Meat Packers Limited and/or Toronto Abattoirs Limited and any new Job positions created within the Company.
-62-
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175 (the “Union”)
- and-
QUALITY MEAT PACKERS LIMITED TORONTO ABATTOIRS LIMITED (the “Company”)
Reference: Errors in Pay
This letter will confirm that corrections to pay that are greater than $100.00 for hours worked in the payroll cycle will normally be made within two (2) days of the time when the error is brought to the attention of the Human Resources Manager or designate. This understanding is subject to the extenuating circumstances of the required signing officers being able to issue the necessary correction due to their absence from the plant, in which case the correction will be on the next payroll cycle.
Signed this 12th day of April, 2011.
FOR THE COMPANY FOR THE UNION
Sheldon Garfinkle__ Matt Davenport_________
-63-
INDEX
Address List		Article ..3 .5		Page .... 5
Appearance in Court		..14.13		.... 35
Appendix “A” Agreement as it applies to Toronto Abattoirs			....48
Appendix “B’’ Wage & Group Schedule.		.... 49
Appendix “C” Job Classifications			.... 50
Assessments		••3.2		.... 5
Bereavement Pay		..14.7		.... 31
Company Supplied Equipment		.. 14.9		.... 33
Duration of Agreement		. .26		....46
Employment Age		..21		....44
GoodAttendance Bonus		.. 24		... .46
Health. Welfare and Pension Plan		..18		.... 37
Hours of Work and Overtime		..IO		.... 15
Injury Shift Guarantee		. .14.8		....32
Job Posting		.. 20		... .43
Labour Management Committee		..16		... .3 7
Letter of Agreement re: Errors in Pay			....63
Management Rights		.. 4			 6
Membership		.. 3.3		.... 5
Miscellaneous		. .14		.... 31
No Discrimination		.. .5		.... 6
No Strikes and No Lockouts		. .6		.... 7
Part Time		..12.14		... .26
Payment of Dues		..3.1			4
-64-
INDEX (continued)
Plant Holidays			Article 	11		Page 	18
Preface				 1
Pregnancy/Parental Leave			14.12		.... 35
Premium Pay			9		....14
PuflJose			2		.... 3
Recognition			1		.... 2
Safety and Health						15		....36
Seniority			12		.. ..19
Settlement of Grievances			7		... . 7
Signing Bonus			25			46
Skills Enhancement			23		....45
Student Employment			22		....44
Union Notices			17		....37
Union Security			3		... . 4
Vacations			13		....28
Wages and Classifications			8		.... 13
Weekly Pay Guarantee			19		.. ..42
-65-
Parental Benefits:
Parental benefits can be collected for up to 35 weeks by natural and adoptive parents while they are caring for a newborn or adopted child. Under the new rules a combination of maternity (biological mothers only), parental and sickness benefits can be received up to a combined maximum of 50 weeks in a 52 week period.
Benefits are paid at 55% of your average insured earnings up to a maximum of $413 per week.
Employment Insurance Compassionate Leave:
As of January 4, 2004, compassionate care benefits may be paid upto a maximumof6weeks to a personwho has to be absent from work to provide care or support to a gravely ill family member who is at risk of dying within 26 weeks. Unemployed persons on El can also ask for this type of benefit.
To be eligiblefor compassionatecare benefitsyou must apply and show that:
•	your regular weekly earnings from work have decreased by more than 40%; and
•	you have accumulated 600 insured hours in the last 52 weeks or since the start of your last claim. This period is called the qualifying period.
You can receive compassionate care benefits to care for one of the following family members:
•	your child or the child of your spouse or common-law partner:
•	your wife/husband or common-law partner;
•	your father/mother;
•	your father’s wife/mother’s husband;
•	the common-law partner of your father/mother.
Common-law partner means a person who has been living in a conjugal relationshipwith that person for at least a year.
When requesting compassionate care benefits you must provide a medical certificate as proof that the ill family member needs care or support and is at risk of dying within 26 weeks.
Discharge or Quit:
No regularbenefits are paid to those workerswho quit a job withoutjust cause orwho arefired for misconduct. You may appeal a disqualification. Contact your Union if you need assistancewith your appeal.
For more information contact
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT CANADA
or
CANADA EMPLOYMENT CENTRE
Should you have a problem, contact your Union Representative for help!	•
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY ACT
Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management & workers live up to their responsibilities under Ontario’s Occupational Health& Safety Act. Here is a quick guide to the Act. For details, refer to the Act itself, which is found in the small green book, which must be posted in every workplace.
Emp/oyer's Duties: Among otherthings, the employer must:
•	Provideinformation, instruction and training to a worker to protect the health & safety of the worker.
•	Acquaint the worker with any workplace hazard.
•	Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
•	Co-operatewith and assist the health & safety committee and representative.
•	Take every precaution reasonablefor the protectionof the worker.
Supervisor’s Duties: In stores, the Supervisor is normally
the Store Manager. He/she must:
•	Ensure that the worker works in a safe manner and uses all the equipment, protective devices or clothing that is required.
•	Advise a worker of any potentialor actualdanger to health & safety.
•	Providewritten safety instructions,where required.
•	Be familiarwith the Act and regulations.
Worker’s Obligations
•	Use all safety equipment and wear all protective clothing required by the employer.
•	Report any potentially unsafe condition or defect in safety equipment to your Supervisor.
•	Obey the Health and Safety law and all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulationsto your Supervisor.
Workers may not:
•	Remove or turn of any safety device.
•	Use any equipment or work in a manner which may endanger yourself or another worker.
•	Engage in horseplay of any kind.
The Right to Refuse Unsafe Work
If you encounter an unsafe condition at work, your first obligation is to report it to your Supervisor. Once you have done that, you may refuse to work at a job or task where you have reason to believe that: ‘
•	Any machine or equipment you are supposed to use is likely to endanger yourself or another worker, or
•	The condition of the workplace itself is hazardous.
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal, who must then investigatethe matter in your presence and that of a health and safety representative of the workers (normally the Steward or a member of the Health & Safety Committee). Ifthe Supervisororders you back to work and you are still not satisfied that the job is safe, you may con-
tinue to refuse to work, provided you believe the condition still constitutes a hazard.
At this point, the lnspectorfrom the Ministry of Labour must be called in. While you are waiting for the Inspector, the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he or she is informed in the presence of the Health & Safety Committee member, that the job was refused and the reasons for the refusal. This second worker also has the same right to refuse. The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable alternative work, subject to the Coll ectiveAgreement. '
The decision of the Inspector is final. Although this order may be appealed, you must returnto thejob ifthe Inspector so orders, pending the outcome of such appeal.
Certified Member
Section48(1) states that a certified memberwho receivesa complaintthat dangerous circumstancesexist is entitled to investigatethe complaint.
If in Doubt
If i n doubt about the Rightto Refuse, members should consult their Certified Worker Member, Health & Safety Committee Member, Union Steward or Local 175 Union Representative or call the Ministry of Labour.
The Entitlementto be Paid
Section43(13) requiresthe employer to pay Health& Safety Committee members at “regular or premium rate, as may be proper."
BENEFITS DEPARTMENT
Orsola Augurusa
Benefits Representative
Georgina Broeckel
Benefits Representative
Sherree Backus
Benefits Representative
Joanne Ford
Benefits Representative
HEALTH & SAFETY DEPARTMENT
Janice Klenot
Senior Health & Safety Representative
BENEFIT & COMMUNICATION DEPARTMENTS
2200 Argentia Road - Mississauga, ON - LSN 2K7 Phone: 905-821-8329 Toll Free: 1-800-565-8329
Fax: 905-821-7144
www.ufcw175.com
LEGAL DEPARTMENT
Fernando Reis
Legal Co-ordinator
Marcia Barry
Legal Counsel

JS*
Michael Hancock
Senior Legal Counsel
Simran Prihar
Legal Counsel
Natalie Wiley
Legal counsel
Rebecca Woodrow
Senior Legal Counsel
LEGAL DEPARTMENT
2200 Argentia Road - Mississauga, ON - LSN 2K7 Phone: 905..821-8329 Toll Free: 1-800-565-8329
Fax: 905-821-7144
www.ufcw17S.com
ORGANIZING DEPARTMENT
Rick Wauhkonen
Organizing
Coordinator
Mike Mattioli	Tony Nigro
Organizing	Organizing
Apprentice	Representative
Joe Pereira
Organizing Apprentice
Mario Tardelli
Organizing Representative
Amy Tran
Organizing Representative REGIONAL OFFICE
2200 Argentia Road - Mississauga, ON - L5N 2K7 Phone: 905-821-8329 Toll Free: 1-800-565-8329
Fax: 905-821-7144
www.ufcw175.com
TRAINING 8t EDUCATION CENTRE
Kelly Nicholas
Co-ordinator Training & Education

Laurie Duncan
Education Staff
Ashleigh Garner
Education Staff
COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Emily Groom
Communications
Representative
Meemee Seto
Servicing
Representative
Jennifer Tunney
Sr. Communications Representative
TRAINING & EDUCATION CENTRE
2200 Argentia Road - Mississauga, ON - L5N 2K7 Phone: 905-821-8329 Toll Free: 1-800-565-8329
Fax: 905-821-7144
www.ufcw175.com
CENTRAL EAST REGION
Kelly Tosato
Director Central East
Judith Burch
Union
Representative
Jehan Ahamed
Union
Representative
John DiFalco
Union
Representative
Mona Bailey
Union
Representative
A - ^	. -
John DiNardo
Union
Representative

Linval Dixon
Union
Representative
Angela Mattioli
Union
Representative
Union
Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
2200 Argentia Road - Mississauga, ON - LSN 2K7 Phone: 905-821 -8329 Toll Free: 1-800-565-8329
Fax: 905-821-7144
www.ufcw17S.com
CENTRAL WEST REGION
Luc Lacelle
Director Central West
Sam Caetano
Union
Representative
Matt Davenport
Union
Representative
Joe DeMelo
Union
Representative
Anthony DiMaio
Union
Representative
Kevin Dowling
Union
Representative
Rick Hogue
Union
Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
412 Rennie Street - Hamilton, ON - LSH 3PS Phone: 905-545-8354 Toll Free: 1-800-567-2125
Fax: 905-545-8355
www.ufcw175.com
EASTERN REGION
Dan Lacroix
Director Eastern Region
Simon Baker
Union
Representative
Marilyn Lang
Union
Representative
Chris Fuller Paul Hardwick
Union	Union
Representative	Representative
Daniel Mercier Jacques Niquet
Union	Servicing
Representative	Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
20 Hamilton Ave. North - Ottawa, ON - KlY 1B6 Phone: 613-725-2154 Toll Free: 1-800-267-5295
Fax: 613-725-2328
www.ufcw175.com
NORTH WEST REGION
Director
North West Region
Colby Flank
Union
Representative
Dean McLaren
Union
Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
RM 21 - Lakehead Labour Centre 929 Fort William Rd - Thunder Bay, ON - P7B 3A6 Phone: 807-346-4227 Toll Free: 1-800-465-6932
Fax: 807-346-4055
www.ufcw175.com
SOUTH CENTRAL REGION
-. 'fa*#*'?4iikj**vs£±-
Sylvia Groom
Director South Central
Virginia Haggith
Servicing
Representative
—
Jason Hanley
Servicing
Representative
Lee Johnson-Koehn
Servicing
Representative
Casey Magee
Servicing
Representative
Brenda Simmons
Servicing
Representative
Mark Stockton
Servicing
Representative
Chris Watson
Servicing
Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
2200 Argentia Road - Mississauga, ON - LSN 2K7 Phone: 905-821-8329 Toll Free: 1-800-565-8329
Fax: 905-821 ..7144
www.ufcw175.com
SOUTH WEST REGION
Paul Jo'khu
Director South West
Wendy AbsolorrJ
Union
Representative
Tim Deelstra
Union
Representative
Rob Nicholas
Union
Representative
Union
Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
124 Sydney Street South - Kitchener, ON - N2G 3V2 Phone: 519-744-5231 Toll Free: 1-800-265-6345
Fax: 519-744-8357
www . ufcw 175.com