THIS AORICKMKNT MADL AND lYIKUID IN K) THIS 13TH DAY 01' JULY, A.I). 1995
ItKTWKKN:
SHNNYTAN1.) POULTRY PRODUCTS LTD.,
a Corporation with its Hoad Office at the Town ofWynyard, in the Province of Saskatchewan, hereinafter called the “employer11
()[-THI' FIRST PAR1!1
RKTAIL, WHOLKSALK AND DKI’ARTMUN I STORK UNION, LOCAL S-955, hereinafter called the “tlnion11
OF TUP, SliCONI) PART
Kxpites: January 31, 1997
00271(06)
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
I - Purpose....................................... I
Purpose
2	-	Terms.......................................... I
3	-	Bargaining Agency.............................. 2
4	-	Check-oIT ..................................... 3
5	-	Seniority ....................................  3
6	-	Vacations....................................   9
7	-	Statutory Holidays.............................II
8	-	Grievance Procedure............................12
9	-	Leave of Absence ............................  15
10	-	Bulletin Board................................17
1 I -	U niforms.....................................17
12	-	Miscellaneous.................................19
13	-	Plant Employees...............................21
14	-	Wages, 1 lours, etc...........................23
15	-	Safely and Health ............................25
16	-	Employee Benefits ............................27
17	-	Technological Change..........................29
18	-	Duration .....................................30
Appendix “A” - Hours of Work......................... 32
Appendix “B” - Classifications/Wagc Rales ...........35
Letter of Understanding - Temporary Positions ........38
Letter of Understanding - Maintenance Employees
Work Schedules.................................40
Letter of Understanding
- Second (2nd) Shift Workers ...................42
Letter of Understanding - Scheduling of Hours
of Meat Haul Truck Drivers & Relief Drivers ...44
Letter of Understanding - Absenteeism................50
IIHS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 13th dav
of July, A,D. HW5.	'
BETWEEN;
SIJNNYI.ANI) POULTRY PRODUCTS I I I)..
a Corporation with its Head Office at the Town of Wynyard, in the Province of Saskatchewan, hereinafter called the “Employer”
'	Of 'HIP, HIRST PAR T
AND:
KKTAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT
STORK UNION, LOCAL S-95S, hereinafter called the “Union”
OR THE SfiCONO PART
TilR PARTIES HRRHTO MUTUALLY AGREE AS ROU.OW.S:
ARTICLE t - PURPOSE
1.(11 It is the intention of (his Agreement to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Rmploycr and
ils employees and to provide an amicable means of seining differences which may possibly arise, and as well to set forth conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto; and to promote the mutual interests of the Employer and its employees'; and it is recognized by this Agreement to be the responsibility of the Union to co-operate fully, individually and' collectively, for the promo-lion of the aforesaid conditions.
ART ICLE Z - T ERMS
2.01	In the Agreement, wherever the words “lie”, “his” or “him” appear, it shall lie construed as meaning any employee, male or female; wherever the words “employee” or “employees” appear, it shall mean any person covered by this Agreement.
2.02	In this Agreement wherever the word “permanent” appears, it shall be construed as meaning any employee, male or female, who has completed his
or her probationary period as defined in Article 5.0 I of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - BARGAINING AGENCY
3.01	The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency with respect io wages, hours and all other conditions of employment lor the employees employed by the Employer in the Town of Wynyard except:
(a)	General Manager, Assistant General Manager, Plant Manager, Human Resources Manager, Assistant Human Resources Manager, Plant Superintendent, Assistant Plant Manager, Office Manager, Assistant Office Manager, Supplies Manager, Production Manager, Sales Manager, Shipping Manager, Assistant Shipping Manager, Director of Research, two (2) Research Technicians, one (I) field Service Person, fifteen (15) Office Staff, four (4) Sales Representatives and Traffic Manager.
It is agreed that there shall be no loss of bargaining unit jobs as a result of the Traffic Manager and Assistant Shipping Manager oul-of-scopc positions being created.
3.02	Every employee who is now, or hereafter becomes it member of the Union, shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment, and every new member whose employment commences hereafter shall, on hiring, apply for and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of his employment.
3.03	Persons whose jobs arc not in the bargaining unit will not work on any jobs for which rates are established by this Agrecmcnl except for the purpose of instruction, experimentation or in extreme emergencies.
3.04	Severance Pay
An employee shall be entitled io severance pay in
the event of termination of employment vvilli the Company, resulting from job abolishment, or termination after twelve (12) months' layoff provided that the Company did not have work available at the same rate of pay, except for just cause or voluntary severance, eligible employees will be allowed one (!) week’s pay after one (1) full year of continuous service and two (2) weeks' pay after three (2) years of continuous service with the Company.
AUTKTJ<1_4 - CHECK-OFF
4.01	Upon written request of any employee, and upon request of the Union, the employer shall deduct each month the Union Dues, Initiation bees and Assessments for that month of such employee. The amount collected shall he remitted in one payment immedialely following the second pay period in the month to the person designated by the Union, together with it list of the employees from whom the deductions were made, the names of the employees hired and the names of those employees whose employment has terminated. 'The employer shall at all times be advised of the name and address of the individual to whom the said dues are to be rcmillcd.
A4Cn CL Is 5 - SENIORITY
5.01	Seniority for all in-scope employees shall be defined and determined from Ihc first (1) day an employee enters the service of the employer. This clause is to be effective upon the day of ratification and will be retroactive only for Ihc maternity clause. New employees shall be on probation for a period of sixty (60) working days during which lime they may be laid off without reference to seniority and Ihc Employer shall be under no obligation to rehire such employee and such layoff shall be deemed just cause and such probationary employees shall not have access to the grievance and arbitration provisions of the Collective Agreement except where, in the sole opinion of the Union Grievance Committee,
the following criteria has been alleged to have been violated by the Company in assessing the layoff of it probationary employee as to whether or not the Company has met its onus of just cause.
In assessing the just cause test of a probationary employee layoff, the parties shall take into account whether the employee was given a Fair opportunity to demonstrate his/her ability and whether the employee was notified of dcficicneies in his/her performance and given an opportunity to correct them.
(a)	Employees shall only lose seniority in the event:
(1)	he is discharged for cause and is not reinstated;
(2)	voluntarily terminates;
(d)is laid off for a period of longer than twelve (12) months.
(b)	Employees would only maintain but would not
continue to accumulate seniority as follows:
(1)	temporary promotions outside the bargaining unit for periods of up to six (6) months;
(2)	Layoff tip to and including twelve (12) months;
(3)	(a) An employee’s seniority shall continue to
accumulate when hc/shc is on Maternity Leave, Workers’ Compensation, medical or dental appointments, or absent from work due to illness or accident. Such illness or accident may he substantiated by it doctor’s certificate or other records, or due to lack of work when not formally laid off. It is agreed that an employee who is on Workers' Compensation or is absent due to sickness, shall not accumulate seniority during periods he would normally have been laid off. However, had such an employee normally been granted pint-
lime work, then he shall receive seniority
credil lor such days as if he were working. The Fmploycr and the Union shall agree on such total days of credil.
(b)	Personal leaves of absence as outlined in Article 9 of this Agrecmcnl.
(c)	Any employee who attends educational upgrading or training which is directly related to his/her job with Sunnyland Poultry Products Ltd. shall continue to accumulate seniority for the complete duration of time such employee is away from his/her job lor the sole purpose of educational upgrading, training or retrain-mg.
(e) Seniority for the purpose of being called to work shall not apply to probationary employees in the event the Company requires additional staff to be trained. A maximum of ten (10) employees may replace the most junior probationary employees for up to five (5) working days for training purposes only.
(d)	For the purpose of determining seniority of two (2) or more employees who have the same seniority dates, their entire social insurance numbers will he used. The employee with the lowest social insurance number will be considered the senior.
.02	(a) In all layoffs, recalls al'ler layoffs, vacancies, and
promotions, ability being sufficient, seniority shall govern. An employee has the right to hum]) a junior employee, ability being sufficient, for a shortage of work on a day-to-day basis, provided it is being done prior to the last coffee break in the day. Should an employee elect not to hump a junior employee prior to the last coffee break in the day, then after the said coffee break, an employee will work at any job assigned by management, or, at his option, go home for (he
5
5.03
5.04
remainder of lhat shill, in which case sueh employee shall waive his/her rights to his/her guarantee of hours.
(b) When a short kill is scheduled which causes a transfer of employees from another area of the plant to the packaging department in order io make up the guarantee of hours, then the parlies agree that employees shall indicate their willingness io transfer by placing their name on a Department Transfer List posted by the Company on a clay-to-clay basis as required by the Company. The Company shall then select the appropriate number of employees as needed based on their seniority from the list. Should an employee not wish to place his name on the list, then such employee or employees shall waive their right Lo their guarantee of hours. All employees shall make their preference known no later than 10:30 n.m. each day of the posting and all affected employees shall he notified by 12:00 noon of each day.
However, if the Company requires an employee or employees io leave the plant and go home, then the guarantee Of hours shall apply. NO'l'L: lisl to be posted by the kill board.
The Company shall posl and maintain an accurate seniority list to include name, address, seniority date, job classification and wage rate. The list shall be posted in a conspicuous place accessible lo all employees every four (4) months. A copy of the list shall he provided to the Chief Shop Steward of the Union or his designee who shall bring to the attention of the Employer any errors or omissions and same shall he corrected.
(a) Notice of vacancy, promotions and new positions shall be posted on the bulletin board in the receiving coffee room, the trucking coffee room, and the plant coffee room and employees shall
be allowed three (3) working days from the date
6
ol posting in which to make applications lor
such positions. The names of all applicants shall
be posted on the bulleiin board its well its the name of the successful applicant which shall he selected and posted within one (I) day of the closing date of the posting.
(b) An employee will he limited to holding one (I) permanent hid position and/or one (I) permanent relief bid position. Rmployees will be restricted to two (2) successful bids per twelve (12) months. During the qualifying period as defined under Section 5.05(a), should an employee give up the hid position, the next candidate in line who bid on the position should he given the opportunity for the position. If no other hid is submitted then the Company shall appoint someone for the position.
5.05	(a) An employee transferred or promoted to a new
position, shall be allowed a reasonable qualifying period not exceeding a lour (4) week period, If, during the four (4) week period, the Employer or the employee, after consultation with the Union, decides he is unsuited to the new joh and cannot adapt himself to the new work, he shall revert to his former position. (b)The above provision shall not be applicable when employees are in the position of FiNGI-NRKRS, RRFRIGliRATION, lil J-CTRICIAN, MECHANIC AND MAINTHNANCH whom decide to transfer or bid out of their respective classification. An employee transferred or promoted to a new position shall be allowed a reasonable qualifying period not exceeding a four
(4)	week period. If, during the four (4) week period, the Rmploycr or the employee, after consultation with the Union, decides hc/she is unsuited to the new job and cannot adapt to the new work, the employee shall revert to a floater position.
7
5.06
5.07
5.08
(a)	The Company and the Union recognize the need for relief positions within the plant, and they shall be posted as outlined in clauses 5.02 and 5.04. The posting shall indicate that the position is a relief position.
Any employee bidding on a relief position shall be paid the rate of their regular bid job, but the rate of pay for the relief position shall be paid as outlined in Article 14.05.
(b)	The classification of Truck Driver (Fresh and Frozen) will be treated separately from Truck Driver (Live Haul) and the classified employees shall be scheduled separately from one another. However, they will he scheduled by seniority in their respective classifications and shall not cross over to cither 'Truck Driver classification.
All other truck driving positions, vacancies, scheduling, call-iris or extra trips shall be scheduled on the basis of plant-wide seniority.
There shall be at all times a Relief Driver Classification filled in accordance with the terms of the Agreement for:
Truck Driver (Five Haul)
'Truck Driver (Fresh & Frozen)
and such employees shall only be allowed to relieve in their respective bid classification.
livery employee shall be responsible to see that the Rmploycr has his correct address at all times and the Lmployer shall not be under any obligation to trace such employee if he cannot be located at the address on file in the employer’s office.
Should an employee be unable to return to work on five (\5) days’ notice, such employee shall forfeit his seniority rights and any other rights under this Agreement, except in case of sickness to the employee or his family, weather conditions, or other good and sufficient reason agreed upon by the Fmployer and the Union. In ease of sickness, a doc-
8
tor’s certificate or oilier satisfactory proof may be
required.
5.09	All calls to work, recalls arid layoffs shall be made in writing or by telephone and an indication of the notification shall be forwarded to the Chief Shop Steward of the Union.
5.10	When an employee is recalled from layoff, he shall be entitled to return to his regular bid job when the position becomes available and shall receive his former rate of pay Ihat he was receiving prior lo layoff and all other employees affected shall return to their former positions.
5.11	Hmployces classed as students shall not be allowed to bid on permanent positions, however, they shall be allowed lo bid oil temporary positions that are posted timing the months of May anti terminate August 31st of each calendar year. The Company shall have the rigid to use such employees as floaters when and where required. Such student employees shall only use their overall plant-wide seniority It) bump a junior employee when they cease to be a student and wish to become a permanent full-time employee of the Company.
for all other applicable purposes of the Collective Agreement subject lo the foregoing provision of Article 5.11, Students’ plant-wide seniority rights will he applicable.
ARTICLE 6 - VACATIONS
6.01	Every employee shall be entitled, after each year of his employment with the Employer, to an annual vacation of three (3) weeks.
6.02	Any employee who lias five (5) or more consecutive years of employment shall be entitled to four (4) weeks’ annual vacation.
6.03	Any employee who has twelve (12) or more years of service, shall be entitled to five (5) weeks’ annual vacation.
()
6.04
6.05
6.06
Any employee who has seventeen (17) or more years of service, shall be entitled to (6) weeks’ annual vacation.
Where an employee is entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) weeks, he shall be paid three fifty-seconds (3/52nds) of his total earnings during the year immediately preceding the date on which he became entitled to an annual vacation; and where the employee is entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) weeks, he shall be paid one-thirteenth (l/l 3th) of his earnings during the year immediately preceding the date on which he became entitled to the annual vacation; and where an employee is entitled tu five (5) weeks’ annual vacation, he shall he paid five fifty-seconds (5/52nds) of his earnings during the year immediately preceding the date on which he became entitled to the annual vacation; and where an employee is entitled to six (6) weeks’ annual vacation, he shall be paid six fifty-seconds (6/52nds) of his earnings during the year immediately preceding the date on which he became entitled to the annual vacation. Vacation pay shall be paid during the period oF fourteen (14) days immediately preceding the commencement of the vacation.
If the employment of an employee is terminated, the Employer shall pay him, in addition to all other amounts due him, 3/52nds of his total earnings if he is entitled to three (3) weeks’ vacation, or 1 /13th if he is entitled to four (4) weeks’ vacalion, or 5/52nds if he is entitled to five (5) weeks’ vacation, or 3/26ths if he is entitled to six (6) weeks’ vacations, as the case may be, lor his period of employment with the Employer; but, if the employee lias been permitted to take an annual vacation at any time during his period of employment, he shall be paid, al the rale applicable, on his total earnings after the date on which he became entitled to the last annual vacation which he was permitted to take.
10
ft,07 Thai every employee shall have unlil (lie end ol March in each calendar year to make his or her preference for vacation. Thereafter, the Company .shall schedule any employee who has not made his preference known or has not made prior arrangements concerning Ids vacation with the Human Resources Manager. The Company then agrees that the vacation list shall be posted no later than April 1ft, indicating every employee’s chosen vacation dates.
6.08	An employee entitled to three (.1) weeks’ vacation or more shall be entitled to carry over any pari of or all of their vacation credits which shall be taken before the end of Pebruary each year.
6.09	If any Statutory Holiday, hereinafter enumerated, occurs during the period of any annual vacation which an employee lias been permitted to take, the period of such annual vacation shall be increased by one 11 j day.
ARTICLE 7 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
7.01
Employees shall receive it day off without loss oi pay on tlte following public holidays:
NEW YEAR’S DAY VICTORIA DAY LABOUR DAY REMEMBRANCE DAY BOXING DAY SASKATCHEWAN DAY
GOOD KRIDAY DOMINION DAY THANKSGIVING DAY CHRISTMAS DAY BIRTHDAY
and any other holidays proclaimed by Dominion, Provincial or Civic Authority.
In addition to paid holidays above, employees on the payroll its of the tith'd Monday in Pebruary and having at least twenty (20) days’ seniority shall be granted one (1) individual holiday which shall be taken in die calendar year in which the employee becomes eligible for such individual holiday and at a lime agreed upon between the Company and the Employee. Should the Company be required by law
//
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
to observe Heritage Day, such holiday shall replace the individual holiday.
Pay shall be calculated on the basis of eight (8) hours per day J'or the above-mentioned holidays for regular employees. Probationary employees shall be paid on the basis of the average earnings, exclusive of overtime, Gx the previous lour (4) weeks immediately preceding the week in which it public holiday occurs. To qualify, for public holiday pay, employees shall be on the payroll in the week prior and in the payroll week in which such holiday occurs.
Statutory holidays shall be observed on days other than calendar date when so proclaimed by proper Government authority or when agreed in writing between the Union Executive and the Employer.
Any employee required to work and who agrees to work on any ot the Statutory Holidays listed above shall, in addition to his regular wages, be paid for the number of hours worked on that day at one and one-half (I 1/2) times his regular rate of pay. Tn the event of a Statutory Holiday coining on an employee’s regular day off, he shall receive another day in lieu thereof, such other day to be granted within two (2) weeks from the said Statutory Holiday.
In regards to birthday, an employee shall take the day of his birthday off or if his birthday falls on a Saturday, he shall take the Pi-iday off in the preceding week or if his birthday fulls on it Sunday, he shall take the Monday off in the succeeding week.
ARTICLE 8 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	Deductions shall not be made by the Employer from wages of the Shop Stewards and from wages of not more than three (3) members of the Negotiating Committee in respect to time actually spent negotiating for the settlement of disputes, grievances and the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
12
8.02	The Union or any employee who has a complaint or
grievance shall submil the same, in writing, within
ten (1(>) working days /'rum llic lime .such grievance
arose or became apparent. A copy of such complaint or grievance shall be forwarded lo the Human Resources Manager.
8.03	Should dilTercnees arise between the Union or the employees and (he Umployer, there shall he no strikes, slowdown, sloppage of work or suspension of work on the part of the Union or the employees, or lockouts on the part of the Hmployer on account thereof, and such difference shall he settled by the following procedures:
(a)	The employee shall present any differences of grievances to his Shop Steward, in writing, without undue delay;
(b)	The Grievance Committee, not exceeding two (2) people, shall present the Grievance and discuss the matter with the Human Resources Manager, who shall give a decision within one (I) working day;
(c)	In the event that a conclusion is not reached, the Grievance Committee, not exceeding three (3) people, shall immediately take the matter up with (he Plant Manager or Plant Superintendent who shall give a decision within two (2) working days.
(d)	In the event that no conclusion is readied, the Grievance Committee, not exceeding three (3) people, accompanied by a Representative of the Union, if they so desire, shall immediately take the matter up with the General Manager who shall give a written decision within three (3) working days.
8.04	(a) Any dispute or grievance submitted under this
Article that cannot be settled by representatives of the Company and the Union shall be submitted lo a Board of Arbitration at the request of either party.
U
8.05
8.06
(b)	The Board of Arbitration shall be composed of one Company representative, one Union representative and one person acceptable to both the Company and the Union, who shall act as Chairperson. If agreement cannot be reached within ten (10) days in respect of the appointment of the Chairperson of the Board of Arbitration, the Minister of l.abonr shall he asked to appoint a Chairperson.
(c)	When the Board of Arbitration has been formed in accordance with Article 8.04(b), il shall meet and hear the evidence of both sides and render a decision within fourteen (14) days after it has completed its hearings and investigations.
(d)	The Board of Arbitration, in reaching its decision, should be governed by the provisions of this Agreement. It is understood tlrat the Board of Arbitration is not vested with power lo change, modify, or alter this Agreement or any of its parts. The Board may, however, interpret the provisions of this Agreement. The majority decision of the Board shall Ire final and binding on both parties concerned.
(e)	It is agreed that eaclr pally shall pay the expenses of its Representative and shall equally share the expense of the Chairperson of the Board of Arbitration.
When a Grievance affecting l he rate of pay of an employee is settled satisfactorily and wages of the employee are increased, any such increase shall be made retroactive to the date the employee was entitled lo the increase.
If an employee is dismissed for any reason, and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall, within five (5) working days from the receipt of such notice, notify the Shop Steward, who shall then notify the Hmployer. 'file dismissal in question shall then constitute a Grievance and shall be dealt with as such. If, subsequently, he is reinstated, it shall be without loss of pay, in his former position.
14
8,07 (n order that ihe Union can investigate problems and resolve Idem as quickly as possible, ihe
I’'mployer agrees*: la provide lie Union wiili a suitable location in the plant lo hold meetings and provide a place to file material of interest lo the Union.
8.(18 The Chief Shop Steward or his alternate shall bo provided by the Hmployer with copies of any disciplinary action taken by ihe Hmployer within twenly-i'oiti (24) hours following such action.
ARTICLE •) - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
9.01	Any employee who finds it necessary to lie absent from his duties must make written requesl and obtain permission from the Human Resources Manager in sufficient time to provide a suitable replacement. All I.eaves of Absence shall he confirmed in writing showing the starling and expiring dates of such leaves. The Company agrees to supply the Union with copies of all correspondence relating to Leave of Absence.
9.02	Should any employee find it necessary to be absent from his duties due to accident or illness, Ihe Employer may require a doctor's certificate as proof of accident or illness after Ihe third consecutive clay of absence.
9.03	Employees (not to exceed seven (7) at a time with not more than three (3) from any department and not more than two (2) from any job classification) who are elected to do business for the Union shall he granted necessary leaves, without pay, to attend to the business and upon relurn to service of the Employer shall he placed in his pieviously held position without loss of seniority. In the event employees request leave of absence lo attend a Union Convention, the Employer will lie given one (I ) week's written notice,
9.04	female employees, alter completing their probationary period, shall be granted it maternity leave of absence by the Company. The employee must make
9.05
9.06
application for such leave al least four (4) weeks prior to the start of such leave, together with a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner certifying that she is pregnant and indicating the estimated date of confinement. Such leave will he in accordance with the Labour Standards Act of Saskatchewan. The employee shall give the Company a minimum of two (2) weeks’ notice in advance of the date she wishes to return to work and provide the Company with a doctor’s certificate certifying her to be medically lit to come back to work. Maintenance of benefits will be subject to the Labour Standards Act of Saskatchewan.
Special Leave of Absence with pay shall be granted for two (2) days in case of death in the employee’s immediate family. Immediate family of the employee shall mean, wife, husband, mother, father, sister, brother, daughter, son, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents, coin-, noil-law husband, cotninon-law wife, son-in-law, daughter-in-law and grandchildren. Three (3) days with pay shall be granted outside a 15-milc radius of the Town of Wynyard.
The Company recognizes that there are a number of employees working for the Company who also have farm-related duties. The Company, therefore, agrees that employees affected shall have the right to take such leave as follows:
(a)	The employee must indicate in writing when he schedules his vacation that such vacation shall be for the purpose of either seeding or harvesting crops.
(b)	'l'he Company shall he flexible in the scheduling of the weeks the employee wishes off. But it is understood once the employee has started his scheduled week or weeks, he is locked into that week for the duration of the time.
(c)	Lor circumstances beyond the control of the employee (weather), the Company shall extend
16
the vacation into a Leave of Absence without
pay al the request of the employee.
(d)	trail employee wishes an extension of his vacation or wants to reschedule his vacation, he shall give the Company one (I) working day’s notice.
(e)	Any employee requesting leave under this clause for fanning purposes must lie a legitimate farmer and may be requested to prove ownership of farm land or legal use of same.
ARTICLE 10 - BULLETIN IK)ARI)
10.01	'The employer agrees to post and maintain a suitable bulletin board al a central place in the plant for the use of the Union, but any notices placed thereon by the Union must first be approved by the Unman Resources Manager or the Plant Manager.
10.02	The Employer agrees to post ami maintain a suitable bulletin board in each dressing room in the plant for the use of the Union.
ARTICLE 11 r UNIFORMS
11.01	(a)'The Hinployer shall supply adequate overalls,
smocks, rubber gloves, rubber boots, aprons, hair nets and required head coverings where needed, and all such overalls, smocks, rubber gloves, rubber boots, aprons, hair nets and required head coverings shall remain the properly of the Employer. The Employer shall be responsible for repairing and laundering overalls, smocks, rubber gloves, rubber boots, aprons, hair nets and required head coverings supplied by him. Such clothing remains the property of the Employer and except with permission, shall not be removed from the Employer’s premises. The first issue of new rubber boots will be charged out at cost and further issues at no cost on exchange.
(b)	Tlie Company shall provide, at no cost to all full-time Delivery 'Truck Drivers, all appropriate
17
11.02
11.03
11.04
11.05
uniforms which includes summer and winter apparel required to be worn by die Company except footwear. The Truck Drivers shall he responsible for cleaning such uniforms.
Uniforms include:
SUMMER	WINTER
1	Brown Jacket (I ,ight) I Brown Jacket (Heavy)
3 Beige Shirts	3 Beige Shirts
2	Brown Pants	Brown Coveralls (optional)
I Sunnyland Cap (only) Apron (optional)
Apron (optional)
Regular freezer employees shall receive forty-live ($.45) cents per hour extra effective February I, 1992, for all time worked in the freezer, as a clothing allowance. Occasional freezer employees may use clothing supplied by the Employer and shall receive no clothing allowance. Regular freezer employees could be defined as those spending ten (10) hours or more per week in the freezer. The clothing allowance will be added to the freezer employee’s regular rate of pay for purposes of calculating his overtime rate.
In order to prevent injury, maintenance employees shall be supplied with safely hoots and hard hats at no eosl to the employee.
Night Watchman, Delivery Truck Driver, and Truck Drivers will he supplied with comfortable insulated suits and suitable gloves as needed, at no cost io the drivers, or Watchman.
Insofar as the Employer has agreed to supply employees, at no cost to the employees, cutting knives and steel mesh gloves lor use in various areas of the plant, any employee who is going to be absent from work for any reason for a period longer than 3 days shall be responsible lor tbe return o( such items to a designated management person for the use by other employ :es, except where mutual arrangements have been otherwise made by the employee and management.

Airi'LCLK I2-MIS('KI.I.\M <n:s
12-0 I The limployer shall have the exclusive right ur power lo manage the business iimlI direct llie worl ing forces; including the right to hire, suspend, di cipline Ibr just cause, discharge lor cause, lay ol promote, assign to jobs, transfer employees froi dcpattmeiH to depurimenl, to increase or decreat the working force, to determine the products to 1 handled, and nothing in this Agreement shall f intended, or is to be construed in any way to into fere with the recognized right of (lie (iinployer 1 manage and control its business’, but it is agreed the nothing in this clause shall be used lo discrimimi! against any employee or the Union, and this claus shall not be used for the purpose of avoiding tit effects of the other provisions of this Agreetnen Prior to any disciplinary action including dismiss, of an employee who has completed his probalioi the limployer shall notify Ihe Chief Shop Slewar or his designate.
12,02	Any permanent employee wishing to leave the set vice of the limployer shall give seven (7) days’ writ ten notice, and in the event of the l imployer wishin h> lay off a permanent employee, he .shall give lilt seven (7) days’ written notice. On the expiration < seven (7) days, Ihe employee shall receive a] money due him. In lieu of seven (7) days’ notice h the limployer, the employee shall receive one (1 week’s pay.
12,05	limployees shall he allowed a fifteen (15) ininut rest period each morning and a fifteen (15) mimtt rest period each afternoon providing there are on and one-half (1 1/2) hours of work in the aftcrnooi limployees wishing to leave the plant during the res periods shall obtain permission to do so,
12,04	This Agreement shall not lake front the limploye and/or the employee privileges they have hitlierh enjoyed, except such as may be specifically (leal with in this Agreement:, and further, except sucl privileges as may be abused.
12.05
12.06
12.07
12.08
12.09
12.10 12.11
(a)	No employee shall be discriminated against in any manner because of Union activities or because cf race, colour, age, sex, creed, religion, marital status, political beliefs or favoritism.
(b)	The Company agrees the 'Truck Dispatcher shall treat all truck drivers equal when allowing rest time between shifts.
Women must be paid the same rate of wages as men if they arc doing compar able work, limployees summoned to Jury Duly or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for jury service or witness fees and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such days. This docs not apply if the employee is excused from Jury Duty For the rest of that day or days and fails to report back to work, or if Jury Duty occurs on the employee’s scheduled day off.
Any employee required to use his car for the Employer’s business shall be paid twenty-live (25) cents pci mile travelled.
limployees required to take lime off lo write exams or take tests related to their work at Sunny land Poultry Products Ltd. shall not suffer any loss of pay for time spent involved in said exams or tests.
In order <t provide job security for the members of the bargaining unit, the Employer agrees that all work or services performed by the employees as of the date of signing of this Agreement shall not be sub-contracted, transferred, leased, assigned or conveyed in whole or in part, to any other plant, person, company, or noli-unit employee.
As a result of an Agreement between the parlies in negotiations, it is agreed that the Truck Drivers shall supervise the loading of their trucks on all their hauls. The Employer agrees to meet with the drivers and specify in writing where supervision is required and where it is not required. Where supervision of a
20
load is required, then the affected grower shall be
required to initial a proper load sheet.
12.12	It is agreed that all employees shall he allowed to purchase products from the Company on the following basis. The Company reserves the right to question excessive amounts ordered.
(a)	hresh Products (excluding deboned meal) - 2.26 kilograms (5 lbs) minimum order;
(b)	K-cul - one (1) bag minimum order;
(e)	hrozen chicken - minimum case lot;
(d)	Turkey and Turkey Roast - may be purchased one (I) at a lime as follows: 5-7 kilogram (10-12 lbs) hens (utility) and (A);
(e)	Over 0 kilograms (20-22 lbs) Toms (utility) and
(A).
Orders may be placed on Tuesday in the week of payday and they will he prepared on Wednesday and picked up on Thursday.
'the foregoing clause shall lie practiced as a set policy for purchasing product from the Company. If at anytime a problem develops, the Company and the Union shall meet to discuss and try to resolve it.
12.12	Picket Lines
An employee covered by this Agreement shall have the right to refuse to cross a picket line or to handle goods from an employer where a strike or lockout is in effect. Failure to cross such a picket line or handle goods from an employer where a strike or lockout is in effect by a member of this Union shall not he considered a violation of the Agreement nor shall it be grounds for disciplinary action.
ARTICLE 13 - PLANT EMPLOYEES
13.01	'flic Employer shall supply all tools such as knives and scissors, and maintain the same in good working condition.
21
J3.02 The normal lunch period shall be one (I )hour to be granted as close to twelve noon as possible unless otherwise agreed upon between the Employer and the Union.
13.03	The Employer shall notify the employees of the starting time for the following day by posting the same on the notice board, and employees reporting lor work at the time posted shall be paid from that time.
13.04
13.05
13.06
13.07
When required, employees shall be allowed five (5) minutes Io wash their aprons.
The Company agrees to supply all maintenance employees, engineers and truck mechanics where applicable with adequate tools to properly repair and maintain equipment in all areas of the Company.
During coffee breaks and lunch hour, the Employer agrees to provide coffee and tea for employees at no cost to the employees. When overtime is scheduled and a rest period occurs, the Employer will provide coffee and tea and a whole sandwich at no cost to the employee.
It is agreed between the parties that a system or rotation shall be implemented as follows:
(a)	The system of rotation shall be agreed by the majority of the employees in the particular department that will be af fected by the rotation;
(b)	The agreement of rotation must be in writing specifying the terms of the rotation and further all agreed upon rotation shall he made at eoflce break or noon hour only or such other times as mutually agreed upon by the Union and Management;
(c)	An employee bidding or transferred lo an area affected by rotation shall be given a fair chance Io train on the jobs affected by the rotation;
(d)AII rotation shall be evaluated after lour (4)
22
weeks. If the relation is approved by the Union and the Management, then the rotation shall
lit’coini' a concilium ol employment;
(e)	The job posting shall indicate thill the position is a rotation area;
(I) Any employee who is not able to become involved in die rotation or choose not to be involved shall forfeit his/her bid job and become classified as a floater. The vacant position .shall then be posted and filled in accordance with the terms of the Agreement.
13.08 The Union recognizes that the Company must take year end inventory and in order to insure the most viable cost efficient system of inventory to be taken, the Union therefore agrees that regular freezer employees who are requested to count inventory shall work one (I) Saturday which is not a Statutory Holiday immediately preceding December 31st or succeeding December 31st of each calendar year at appropriate overtime rates of pay.
I3.0'> When there is a shortage of employees on any shift due to weather conditions, illness, etc., the Company will establish a labour pool of employees who will lie trained and then be called to work when required to replace absent employees on cither shift.
Such employees shall not he covered by the guarantee of hours provisions of this Agreement, however, such schedule of hours shall guarantee a minimum of four (4) hours’ work or pay in lieu thereof.
ARTICLE 14 - WAGES, HOURS, KTC,
14.0.1 Attached to this Agreement there shall be an Appendix "A” covering the wages, hours, etc., of the employees included under die provisions of this Agreement.
14.02	A completely itemized computation of employee’s pay shall be shown on his paycheque or slip accompanying it. Employees shall be paid every second
33
14.03
14.04
14.05
14.06
Friday before Noon or on Thursday when a statutory hoiiday falls oil Friday. The Company agrees lo pay all employees their paycheques on their last working day before payday if the affected employees arc not scheduled to work the Friday of pay week because of shortage of work.
Classification titles and rates of pay applicable thereto for any new class ifieations or positions that may be established by the Rmployer hereafter, shall be subject to negotiations and a supplementary Agreement shall be executed between the Employer and the Union.
Umpioyccs who leave the service of the employer for purposes of educational upgrading for not more than one (I) year, when they return to the service of the Employer shall be given credit lor previous experience with the Employer for the purpose of determining their wage rale.
II' an employee is transferred from a lower paying position to a higher paying position, he shall receive the wage rate applicable to the higher paying position. If he works the majority part of his hours during the day at the higher paying position, he shall receive the higher rate of pay for the Cull day. For the purpose of this clause, majority means any lime beyond four (4) hours of work.
If an employee in a higher paying position is requested lo transfer to a lower paying position and the employee agrees to the transfer, he will be paid at the wage rate applicable to the lower paying position. If the employee docs not agree lo take the lower wage rate and the Company still requests the employee to transfer to the lower paying position, he will be paid at the rate of the higher paying position he held prior to the transfer.
An employee will have the right to exercise his seniority as to whether he will be transferred or not. It is agreed that the most junior person in the plant must accept the transfer, it is also agreed that an
24
employee s I'omier position alter he has been transferred shall no{ he filled with an employee with less
xt>nioriiv than the enijifoyee \vfiv> was trmjsleireil.
14.07	bmployees requested by tin: limployor to be available and on standby whenever die plant is no! in operation shall be paid standby pay of Twenty-five ($25.00) Dollars per day for each day they nuisi be on standby.
14.08	Drivers’’ Helpers shall be paid at (lie rale for Truck Drivers while loading the truck. They shall be paid at (he Group C rale of pay for all lime spent riding in the truck. However, they wilt not he emitted to Ihe guaranteed workweek as outlined in Appendix (A) subsection !2) while working as a Driver’s Helper. The Union agrees [hat the provisions of (his clause shall have no force or effect unless proper written authorization has been given to said Drivers by Management.
ARTICLK [5 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
15.01 In order to investigate and prevent accidents and improve conditions of work, i! is agreed that a .Safely Committee composed of equal representation from ihe Company and the Union shall be established. bindings and recommendations of the Safety Committee shall be referred to the Company. Should (he Company fail to act on the recommendations of the Committee, such recommendations shall be subject to negotiations between the Company and the Union. The employer and the employees will co-operate in the strict observance of all safety regulations at all limes. They will make full use of all safely and accident prevention devices and equipment as provided, and maintain safe working practices during their boms of employment . within the plant. It Is (he* responsibility of the Hmployer and employees to observe all safely provisions as approved by the Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
15.02
15.03
15.04
15.05
The Company agrees lo pay an employee his regular rate of pay from the hour of accident to the end of the shift which is covered by Workers’ Compensation.
The parties agree that the Occupational Health Committee will direct their attention to looking into the need for suitable clothing lor all employees working in areas in the plant where the temperature is below comfortable room temperature. It is agreed that if the Occupational Health Committee determines that warm clothing is needed lor these employees, then the Employer will provide such suitable clothing at no cost to the employees.
It is agreed between the parties that all of the Company’s trucks shall be equipped with the following items as to assure the health and safety of the Truck Drivers:
(a)	First Aid Kit;
(b)	Survival Kit;
(e)	Flashlight;
(d) hire Extinguisher (mounted);
(c)	Flares;
(f)	Tiro Jack.
Rehabilitation
An employee who suffers an injury or illness which is covered by Workers’ Compensation and/or Group Insurance and who, on the advice of his/her personal physician, is able to return to pre-injury employment on a trial basis, shall have the right to do so subject to the following:
(a)	The employee shall return on a trial basis as instructed by his/her doctor or such other authority’s care he/she is under.
(b)	Such trial basis shall be subject to the terms of the Workers' Compensation Board, if applicable, and/or the employee’s personal physician il
26
Group Insurance is involved, or both, in the case of Workers’ Compensation.
(c)	The return to work shall be for ihe purpose of rehabilitation only and once the employee has completed the terms of the return to work, he/shc shall return to full pre-injury employment conditions of the Collective Agreement.
(d)	Such trial period shall not result in the bumping of any employee from his/her job.
(c) Should the employee not be able to return to his/her pre-injury job classification for the purpose of such rehabilitation, then the Company agrees to find the employee a suitable position to qualify for the rehabilitation period. Following such period, the employee shall return to his/her former pre-injury job classification he/she held prior to injury or illness. Such positions created for the purpose of employee rehabilitation shall not be eligible for bidding and shall not be governed by the provisions of Article 5 (Seniority).
(f)	During such rehabilitation period, the Union agrees to co-operate with the Company insofar as certain terms of the Agreement may have to be waived during this rehabilitation period only.
(g)	The parties agree that if no suitable position is available at the lime the rehabilitation program is to commence, then the affected employee or employees shall remain on Workers’ Compensation or Group Insurance, etc. until such time as the parlies can find a suitable position to accommodate the rehabilitation program.
ARTICLE 16 - KMPLOYKK KKNKKITS
16.01	effective February I, 1994, the Fmployer agrees to implement and pay the full cost of a Family Dental Flan based on a payment of twenty ($.20) cents per hour for each straight time hour worked.
16.02	The Company agrees to pay an employee who would otherwise qualify for holiday pay under
27
16.03
16.04
Article 7.01 but who is receiving benefits under Group Insurance, the dilTercncc between Group Insurance and the employee's regular rale of pay.
(A) Group Insurance Plan
'The Company agrees that the present Group Insurance Plan shall remain in effect, but the Company agrees to increase the Idle Insurance to thirty thousand ($30,000.00) dollars and the insurable weeks be increased to twenty-six (20) weeks at no cost to the employees. The said Plan shall he amended to allow lor benefits to commence the first day of a noil-occupational accident and on the fourth day of illness.
Effective February I, 1994, the Company agrees to pay 75% of the total Group Insurance premiums.
(B)	Long Term Disability Plan (L.T.D.)
Effective July 12, 1993, the Company agrees to pay six ($.06) cents per hour for all regular hours worked or paid by all full-time and qualified part-time employees in order to provide an insured Long Term Disability Plan (I TD).
(C)	The Company will provide a more detailed package information on Ihe LTD Plan.
Pension Plan
(a) A Registered Retirement Savings Plan will be established for all regular full-time employees who have completed a one-year waiting period from the date they were first hired by the Company (Anniversary Date).
(h)	Effective February 1, 1994, each employee shall contribute three (3%) percent of his gross earnings on each payday to his Registered Retirement vSavings Plan.
(c)	Tlie Company shall contribute an amount equal to the employee’s contribution on each payday and the Company's contribution shall be
28
deposited in the employee’s Registered Retirc-
ini'nl Savings Plan.
(d)	The Company and the Union agree that Cooperative Trust Company of Canada will handle (he administration of each employee’s Registered Retirement Savings Plan.
(e)	No employee shall withdraw funds from his Registered Retirement Savings [dan during his term of employment unless this withdrawal has been agreed to by (he Union and the Company.
AKTICLK 17 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
17.01	The Kmployer shall notify the Union three (3) months before the introduction of any technological or other changes or new methods of operation which affect the rights of employees, conditions of employment, wage rates or workloads.
17.02	An employee who is rendered redundant or displaced from his/her job as a result of technological change or other change shall be given an opportunity to fill any vacancy for which lie/she has seniority and which lie/,she is able (o perform. II there is no vacancy, hc/she shall have the right to displace employees with less seniority, providing lie/she is able to perform the job.
17.03	Where new or greater skills are required than are already possessed by affected employees under the present methods of operation, such employees shall, at the expense of the Umployer, be given a period of lime, not to exceed thirty (30) days during which they may perfect or acquire the skills necessitated by the new method of operation. 'There shall be no reduction in wage or salary rates during the training period of any such employee anti no reduction in pay upon being re-classified in the new position.
17.04	Should the introduction of new methods of operation create a need for the perfection or acquisition of skills requiring a training period longer than three
29
M
(3) months, the additional training time shall be a ' subject for discussion between the Kmployer and the Union.
17.05	No additional employees shall be hired by the Employer until employees affected by the change, or employees on layoff, have been notified of the proposed technological or olher change and allowed a reasonable training period to acquire the necessary knowledge or skills to retain their employment.
ARTICLE 18 - DURATION
18.01	This Agreement shall be effective from the first day of February, 1995, and shall remain in force until January 31, 1997, and thereafter from year lo year but either parly may, not less than thirty (30) days or more than sixty (60) days before the expiry date of this Agreement give notice in writing to either party to terminate this Agreement or negotiate a revision thereto.
30
SKAI.I) THIS 7ih DAY OF SEPTHMRBR, 1995,
SIGNED ON BEHALFOF: SIGNED ON BEHALF OF;
R K 1A11 VV HOI MS AI. F AND DEPARTMENT STORK UNION, KM A US-955	SUNNYLAND POULTRY PRODUCTS LTD.
Mary Kastiuk	Lanny Weiler General Manager
Darlene Derouin	Denys Rohidoux General Operations Manager
Debbie Lefficr	Randy Kowalyk, Assistant General Operations Manager
Dianne WiUlcrmun	Terry Dubiel Plant Superintendent
Amly Huuko	i ,ome TarasolT Personnel Manage*
Iris 1 ,ee	' I'im t aimbe Controller
Garry Burkait Represenlalive	
31
APPENDIX “A”
1.	Normal hours of work for all employees shall be eight (8) hours per day not exceeding forty (40) hours, five (5) days per week, and providing for two (2) consecutive days of rest.
2.	The Employer agrees to guarantee to permanent employees a minimum of sixty (60) hours of work in each payroll period or pay in lieu of work unless otherwise agreed between the employee and the Employer, between the months of December through May except frozen and Fresh Truck Drivers which shall be guaranteed sixty (60) hours of work January through December inclusive. During the months of June through to November, the guarantee shall be seventy (70) hours of work or pay in lieu of work for all employees except Frozen and Fresh Truck Drivers. An employee who is absent from work for personal reasons on any day shall have his guarantee for the pay period concerned reduced by the number of work hours missed by such absence. In cases of layoffs, recalls, hiring and dismissals without notice, it is agreed that the guarantee will be pro-rated on a daily basis. An employee who is not scheduled to work hut is subsequently called because of sickness (etc.) and is not available to report to work shall not have his guarantee of hours reduced.
3.	The normal daily schedule of starling and quitting hours and employee’s days of re.;t shall be agreed upon by the Employer and the Union Committee and shall be posted. Any changes in the schedule of hours shall he negotiated as necessary. Should the Company and the Union agree to deviate from the regular scheduled shift, then a half (1/2) hour lunch period with pay shall be given to all affected employees.
The Union and Company agree the regular hours of work should be from 7:00 a.m. start lime to 4:00 p.m. finish time with a one (1) hour unpaid lunch period. If it becomes necessary to change the regular hours of work, the Company will negotiate with the Union before implementing any such change.
32
4.	(a) Overtime at one ami one hali' (I 1/2) limes the regu-
lar Kite shall be paid for all hours worked after eight
(8) hours per day or forty (40) hours, live (3) days per week.
(b) Tlie Rinployer shall supply a hoi meal to all employees wlio work beyond ten (10) hours if required to work by the liniployer or his designate, RITeetive February I, 1994, the employee shall exercise his option us lo either taking u hot meal, nol to exceed seven dollars and fifty cents ($7,50) or the money. Should the employee elect to take the money, then the liniployer agrees to pay all money owed the employee on his first paycheque immediately following such expenditures,
5.	When employees arc required to work their regularly assigned day of rest, they shall be paid at time and one-ltalf (1 1/2) of their regular rate of pay for the hours worked.
6.	When overtime of more than twenty (20) minutes is scheduled to he worked consecutively with die regular hours of work, the employee shall he entitled to fifteen (15) minutes paid rest period before commencing overtime work.
7.	(a) All overtime shall be assigned to those employees,
by seniority, who normally perform the work to be done. Should such employee refuse overtime, then such overtime work shall be offered to employees by seniority, ability being sufficient, on a plant-wide basis.
(b)AII overtime shall be voluntary and shall be performed only alter authorization by the liniployer except the receiving room, plucking room and eviscerating line area, where all ovcrlime shall be voluntary except for one (I) hour per week. It is understood that should the Company use a portion of the one (I) hour, then it is considered to be the full one (I) hour duration and, therefore, cannot he used for the duration of tire week. If overtime is to he worked, tile Company shall meet with the Union

Grievance Committee prior to 10:00 a.in. to discuss the reasons for overtime. In respect to emergencies witli the need lor overtime work, the Union agrees to co-operate.
8.	The Permanent Night Watchman shall have the use oi' a Company vehicle to perform his duties. II a Company vehicle is not available, an allowance of $4.50 per day will be paid to the Permanent Night Watchman for the use of his own vehicle.
9.	The Employer agrees to pay a premium of thirty-five ($.35) cents per hour to all employees for all scheduled hours of work between 6.00 p.m. and 7.00 a.m. This premium shall not he considered as part of such employees’ basic rates.
10.	Employees, except Engin'ors on standby, who report lor work shall be guaranteed four (4) hours’ work or pay in lieu thereof.
11.	Maintenance employees working shills shall have a minimum of twelve (12) hours oil' between scheduled shifts. Should the Fhnploycr call an employee in for work without twelve (12) hours’ rest from his last shill then the employee shall be paid at double (2) his regular rate until the twelve (12) hour:; have been reached.
12.	All hours worked over twelve (12) hours in a day shall be paid lor at the rate of double (2) time.
13.	Effective February I, 1994, the Company will allow seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) for meals for all runs except the Wynyard Poultry Farm and the Plains Poultry Farm.
14.	The parties agree to set up two shifts in the freezer as required and determined after consultation with the Union and it is further agreed senior employees get preference to the shift they wish to work.
34
APPFNDIX “It” - CLASSIFICATIONS
AND WACKttATES
'I'he following job classifications and mininnim hourly wage rates shall apply lo all employees covered by this Agreement.
:Only if required by the Company
Refrigeration, Mechanic (.[oiirnevman). Plus 4th ( 'lass Engineers, Plus Refrigeration Operator’s
Certificate	16.30
Maintenance. Mechanic Refrigeration Operators Certificate (Non-Journeyman;
hirst 30 working days	12.02
Alter 30 working days	12.63
After 120 working days	14.82
Additional fifty ($.50) cents per hour for each '1'rade Certificate required by the Company and carried by the maintenance staff. It is agreed the Certificates required by the Company are as follows:
1)	journeyman Arc Welding
2)	Journeyman Gas Welding
3)	High Pressure Welding'Ticket
4)	Journeyman Pleetrieian
5)	4th Class Steam Ticket
6)	Vehicle Safety inspection Certificate
Feb. 1/95
14.82 15.32
15.82
Fresh. Frozen and Live Haul li-nek Drivers anti Truck Dispatcher
First 30 working days After 30 working days After 120 working days
Itlast Freezer
Croun A
Offal Room Attendant. Plnrker Oneratnr. Freezer. Receiving Room
First 30 working days Alter 30 working days After 120 working days
Groun B
I ,unp iinrl Kidney Vacuum.
Saw Operator. Night Watchman,.. Delivery Truck Driver, lank Attendant. Mechanical Dehoner Operator,
K-Cut Attendant
First 30 working days After 30 working days After 120 working days
Group C
All those jobs not
otherwise listed
First 30 working days After 30 working days After 120 working days
36
Felt. 1/95
12.91
13.53
14.04
13.11
12.22
12.33
12.83
11.64
12.29
12.63
11.34
11.89
12.22
Pel,. 1/95
I eadliand	12.03
Supervisors	13.39
(iraders	12.84
Maintenance Supervisor	17.30
Refrigeration Sunervisor	17.30
Klcctrical Supervisor	17.30
ON 1HM CONDITION THAT:
(a)	there is a Full-lime employee in the electrical department to supervise; OR
(b)	there is a part-time employee in the electrical department that works more than 20 hours per week to supervise.
J7
LETTER OE UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	Sunnyland Poultry Products Ltd.
AND:	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store
Union, Local S-955
TEMPORARY POSITIONS
It is agreed between the Company and the Union that temporary positions shall he posted in accordance with Article 5.04 of this Collective Agreement. The temporary positions shall be for a period not exceeding six (6) months at which time the position shall be reviewed by the Company and the Union. After reviewing the position, a decision shall he made to:
1)	Abolish the position;
2)	Extend the time limit;
3)	Make it a permanent position.
If the job is deemed to be a full-time position, the job shall be re-posted in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
If the job is abolished, the present incumbent shall have the right to revert to his former position.
SIGNED THIS 7th DAY OE SEPTEMBER, 1995.
ON HKHALKOF THE UNION:
ON BEHALF OE THE COMPANY:
Mary Kostiuk
Lanny Weilcr General Managei
Darlene Dcrouin
Denys Robidoux General Operations Manager
38
Debbie 1 .elTler	Randy Kowalyk, Assistant General Operations Manager
Dianne Wikierman	Terry Dubiel Plant Superintendent
Andy Bucko	Lome TarasolT Personnel Manager
h is Lee	Tim Lamb Controller
Garry Burkart Representative
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	Sunnyland Poultry Products Ltd.
AND:	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store
Union, Local S-955
Work Schedules Maintenance Employees
1st Shift -- Monday - 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
-	Tuesday to Friday - 3:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
-	optional l hour unpaid or 20 minute paid lunch period
2nd Shift- Tuesday to Friday - 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
-	Saturday 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
-	20 minute paid lunch break
3rd Shift-
Tuesday to Friday - 1:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Saturday 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
20 minute paid lunch break
NOTH: In the event of the need for a two-man operation due to holidays or illness, the 1st and 3rd shifts woidd be filled, while the 2nd would be left open.
The person returning from holidays would work the 2nd shift providing there will he a three-person crew.
SIGNED TfllS 7th DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 1995
ON BEHALF OF	ON BEHALF OF
THE UNION:	THE COMPANY
Mary Kostiuk
Lanny Wcilcr General Manager
Darlene Derouin	Denys Robidoux
General Operations Manager
40
I )ebbie I .eli lei
Dianne Wiklerman
Andy Bucko
Iris Lee
Garry Buvkart Representative
Randy Kowalyk, Assistant General Operations Manager
Terry Dubiel Plant Superintendent
Lome TarasoiT Personnel Manager
Tim Lamb Controller
41
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	Sunnyland Poultry Products Ltd.
AND:	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store
Union, Local S-955
It is recognized by the Union and Management that Employee absenteeism is disruptive to ihe Employer’s business and lo the Employee’s co-workers who are required to fill in for the absent Employee.
It is agreed that the following policy shall be in effect during the term of this Collective Agreement.
1.	Subject to paragraph 2 below, Employees who are absent from work lor more than twelve (12) separate periods of one day or more during any twelve (12) month period, regardless of the reason for such absence, shall be subject to the following discipline:
i)	first occurrence: five (5) day suspension;
ii)	second occurrence within two (2) years but not less than six (6)months after the first occurrence: dismissal.
2.	Where, in the opinion of a medical doctor who i s approved by the Employer, the Employee is suffering from an illness or injury such that it is unreasonable to expect that the Employee will be able to avoid chronic absenteeism, the Employer will make all reasonable efforts to accommodate the Employee in the workplace before resorting to the measures set out in paragraph 1 above.
3.	Where an Employee suffers from illness or injury as set out in paragraph 2 above, the onus is on the Employee lo obtain the medical opinion and to notify the Employer at the earliest opportunity that he or she may be chronically absent from work due to such condition.
4.	Employees who will be unavoidably absent from work for reasons of sickness, accident, etc., should notify the Personnel Office of this fact as early as possible. This information should normally be given to the Employer prior to the start of the Employee’s shift. If this should prove impossible then not later than one (I) hour of (heir scheduled start time.
42
SIGNED THIS 6th DAY Oh NOVEMBER, 1996
ON IIKHALI1' OF THK UNION:
ON BKHALK OK THK COMPANY:
Mary Kosliuk
Lanny Weiler General Manager
Darlene Derouin
Denys Robidonx General Operalions Manager
Debbie I.efUcr
Randy Kowalyk, Assistant General Operations Manager
Dianne Wilderman
Terry Dubiel Plant Superintendent
Andv Bneko
Iris Lee
43
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	Sunny land Poultry Products Ltd.
This Letter of Understanding shall constitute the agreement
reached between the parties with respect to working conditions of a second (2nd) shift of employees.
1.	Should the Company require a second (2nd) shift of workers, then
2.	Such employees shall not be covered by the guarantee of hours provision of this Agreement, however, such schedule of hours shall guarantee a minimum of four (4) hours’ work or pay in lieu thereof.
3.	All other applicable provisions of this Agreement shall apply to second (2nd) shift employees.
4.	As permanent positions become available, such vacancies shall first be offered to any second (2nd) shift employees based on his/her seniority standing with the Company.
5.	Since the second (2nd) shift works on both evisceration and packing, there shall he no bid positions except Kill Room Attendant, Evisceration Supervisor, Lead Hand Packing Supervisor and Lead Hand.
SIGNED THIS 7th DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 1995
AND:
44
Darlene Derouin
Denys Robidoux General Operations Manager
Debbie l.efl’ler
Randy Kowalyk, Assistant General Operaticms Manager
Dianne Wiklcrman
deny Dnbicl Plant Superintendent
Andy Bucko
Lome TarasolT Personnel Manager
It is I .cc
Garry Burkart Representative
45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	Sunnyland Poultry Products Ltd.
ANI):	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store
Union, Local S-955
Re: Rules Regarding the Scheduling of Hours of Meat Haul Truck Drivers and Relief Drivers
This Letter of Understanding will represent the agreement reached between the parties with regards to scheduling the hours of work for Meat Haul Truck Drivers and the Relief Drivers and shall form an addendum to the Collective Agreement and shall be subject to all the applicable terms of the Collective Agreement.
1. The Company shall structure the routes so as to satisfy the minimum weekly guarantee of hours each week in accordance with Appendix A(I) and (2). This docs not preclude an employee from working more than the minimum guarantee of hours of work if available.
2.	(a) All full-time Bid Classified Meat Haul Truck Drivers
shall then bid internally, within the Meat Haul Truck Driver Classification only, using their plant-wide seniority, to the particular route hc/she wishes to drive.
(b) Once all Lull-time Drivers have selected their weekly block of runs then all former bid positions arc thereby nullified and have no force or effect.
3.	(a) NOTE:
Relief Drivers shall only work in a relief capacity such as vacations or when an extra trip becomes available and there is no full-time Driver available who wishes to make the trip and in relief of a full-time Truck Driver who may be absent because of illness, Workers' Compensation, Group Insurance, leave of absence, etc., in a period in excess of Jour (4) weeks.
46
(b) Relief' Meal Haul Truck Driver shall have first rights based on seniority to a I'ull-tiiiie Truck Driving Position within the Meat Haul Classification should a full-time position become available.
4.	All routes shall be reviewed every four (4) months and should any full-time Driver wisli to re-bid his route, all routes below him in seniority standing shall then he rebid, however, this i.s an option of the drivers and need not be exercised and the status quo maintained.
5.	.Should a route have less than five (5) days of work, the incumbent full-time driver shall have firsl right to all
extra work scheduled that week on his route or days when lie is not working.
6.	Should a Driver not wish to work on a scheduled day off or on a day where he i.s not scheduled to work and work becomes available on those days then the Company will call to work, by seniority, a full-time Driver who is not working who wishes to lake the trip before a Relief Driver or the senior Floater Driver is called to work.
7.	The Company has agreed that us long as they have qualified Drivers and sufficient equipment, no outside agency shall be used to perform Truck Driving work,
K. Double nipping will he allowed as long as it complies with the Federal and/or Provincial Highway Traffic Hoard Regulations with respect to the logging of hours and rest periods.
y. Should the Company need to reduce its compliment of mutes then the most junior full-time driver shall be laid off in accordance wiili the terms of the Agreement and all remaining routes shall be rc-hid in accordance with Section 2 of this Letter of Understanding.
1(1. .Should the Company need lo increase its compliment of routes then all routes shall be re-bid in accordance with Section 2 of this Letter of Understanding with the Relief
Driver having first opportunity lo the last route available and then the Company shall post for a new Relief Driver under Article 5.04(A) of this Collective Agreement or, if applicable, post the vacant route in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
11.	Should the Company need to alter the routes in any way (hen all routes shall be re-bid in accordance with Section 2 of this Letter of Understanding.
12.	All special trips outside of the block runs shall be awarded to Truck Drivers regardless of classification based on plant-wide seniority.
SIGNED THIS 7th DAY Of SEP I EMBER, 1995
Mary Kostiuk
Debbie 1 ,efflcr
Dianne Wilderman
Andy Bucko
Lome TarasolT Personnel Manager
48
Im I .ce
Gurry Hurknrl Represent ufive
Tim I -aitib Coni roller
49