COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
	RATIFIED THIS 22 DAY OP JUNE 1992
BETWEEN:	LILYDALE CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED, a body corporate carrying on business in the city of Edmonton, Alberta hereinafter referred to as the
	"EMPLOYER"
^AND:	UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 31 ZA chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, AFL-CIO & CLC, hereinafter referred to us the

00273 (04)
INDBX
Article	Page
Alberta Health Care .	.
Arbitration............
Daily Guarantee .... Deduction of Union Dues Dental Plan............
11. 19 • 3. .2
Funeral Leave ....
Grievance Procedure .
Group Insurance and W Guaranteed Work Week Hours of Work ....
Jury Duty........................................5.
Leaves of Absence..............................5
Managements Rights.............................15
Meal Periods.....................................3.
No Discrimination..............................16
			• 18,19
			23
.5.			.11
18	.	. . .	25,26
	2,	11.3	18
20 3	•	. . .	27,28 3,4,
					. 3,4,5,6,
			. 5.3		. 10,11
			5.3		.10
					. 8
Rates for Relief Work				. . 13.2		. 22
Recognition and Jurisdiction . .	. .		. . 1 .		• 2
					. 6
Retroactive Pay				. Appendix	A	.30
Safety and Welfare				. ,12 .		. 21
			. 12.3		.21
				*	« 6
					7,8,9
Severance Pay							. 16,17
Shift Work				. . 3.5		• 5
Sick Leave . , 						.17
Statutory Holidays				• . 7 .		.12,13
Successors and Assigns						. 25
Sunday Work 						• 5
Termination and Renewal						.29
Time Clocks		 . . .					. 5
Time 0ff for Union Business . . .					.11
Time Off t o Vote						.23
Union Market' Cards						
Union Notices						.22
Vacations.-, ......... .					.13,14,15
Wages....................................6, AppendixA
WearingApparel.................................14.5	.
,18
26,27 , 6 . 2,3
. 12
10,11,12 24 • 6
.24,25
. 12,13,30,31 .22,23
This index is only for easy reference.	^s are encouraged to read this
Agreement and be conversant with all its provisions.	m in doubt as to the
interpretation of any section. phone you.c Union office at 451-5718.
6
9
1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement w ill promote, improve, and maintain industrial., economic	ha^rmonious relations
between the Union, the employees (and the Employer, (and to set forth herein the agreement between the parties covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment, to be observed by the EmpEmployer, its employees and the Union during the term hereof.
ARTICTE 1
AND JURISDICTIC6'l
1.1	^Agency and Unit
The Employer reccognizes the Union as the sole agency for the purpose of collective bargaining of a 11 employees in the Plant operated at Edmonton,	as more particularly set forth
in the certification granted the Union by The Board of Industrial Relations in the Province of Alberta.
ARTICLE 2 UNIai
2.1	The EmpEmployer agrees that the Union membership is a condition of employment for all employees in the bargaining unit.
The Employer shall be free to hire employees who are not members of the Union, PROVIDED said non-members, whether part-time or full-time employees, shall be eligible for mmemmbership in the Union, (and shall make application on the first day of employment, (and become	within thirty (30)
days. All employees shall pay to the Union the regular dues. EmpEmployees hired through an outside agency (and maintain employment after thirty (30) days shall pay dues retroactive to first day of emplo^yment.
2.2	The EmpEmployer agrees to provide each employee at the time
of enplopent with a fonn outlining to the employee, his or her responsibility in regard to Union membership,	(and to
provide the Union in writing with the m^name (and address of each employee to whom they have presented the fo^ letter, along with the employee's date of hire.
2
?'I'I<^E 2.2 cont.
2.3
The Union shall bear the expense of printing the forms, the contents of the forms to be such that it is acceptable to the ©Employer. The ^Employer further agrees to provide the Union, once a month, with a list containing names of a 11 employees who have tenninated their employment during the previous month
The BEnployer agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such initiation fee, monthly dues, assessments, or other deductions as are authorized by the.Local Union or upon request of the employee affected where no .notification from the said is received.
2.4
Notification of any change in dues, assessments as aforesaid to be given by the Secretary-Treasurer	the Union.
The money deducted during the month shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union, not later than the tenth (10th) day of the following month, together with a written statement of the names of the empemployees for deductions have been made <^d the amount <^d purpose of each deduction.
The EmpEmployer agrees that only employees included in the bargaining unit shall perform any of the work coming within the jurisdiction of this Agrement.
Foremen	those above rank of foramn shall not assume
duties that are performed by i^^bers o£ the bargaining unit except where such duties are limited to occasional work, negligible in amount, for the sole reason to overcome production difficulties caused by absence of an employee. In such cases, the Coimpany w i ll obtain a replacement within two (2) hours unless qualified replacement is not available.
Aia'ICTE 3
3.1
a]
Forty (40) hours per week, consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each, Monday to Friday inclusive, shall constitute the basic work week. All t^ime worked in excess of the daily hours, or the basic work week shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 & 1/2) the regular hourly rate. The employer will pay double ton all hours worked over ten (1O) hours day or forty-five (45) hours per week.
In a week in which one (1) Statutory Holiday occurs, ^employees shall receive forty (40) hours pay at straight time rate and work thirty-two (32) hours.
3
?TItt! 3.1 cont.
3.2
3.3
In a week in which two (2) Statutory Holidays occur, employees shall receive forty (40) hours pay at straight time rate (and work twenty-four (24) hours.
b]	^When overtime i s necessary the most senior employee i n the department shall have the first opportunity to declare their availability. if there am insufficient volunteers for overtime, then the selection of employees shall be on a reverse seniority basis.
DEP^^^^S are defined as foll01s:
Kill (and Live Hang
Eviscerating
Packaging
Shipping
Janitorial
Maintenance
c]	Packaging
It is understood that for the months of June to September, inclusive, the forty-five (45) hour/week condition referred to in Article 3.1 shall not apply.
The above exclusion shall only apply to employees who work all hours of that week in the Packaging Department.
The basic work day shall be between 6:00 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. and work performed before 6:00 a.m ^and after 5:30 p.m. shall be paid at the overtime rate set out in this Agreement.
Janitorial and
Tile basic work day m y have varied starting (and. quitting times providing these hours do not exceed forty (40) hours pper week consisting of five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each, with a two (2) day break between work weeks.
All time worked in excess of the daily hours of the basic work week as set out in this agreement shall be paid as per Article 3.1.
Maintenance ^erloyees shall have their work schedule of hours (and. days posted in. an appropriate place at least one (1) week i n advance.
4
">TI(CTE 3.3 cont.
The schedule of an employee my only be changed in the event of an unscheduled absence of other employees or in the event of emergencies such as fire, fl^ed or breakd<^m in machinery. The employees will be provided wit h a list of names (and. phone numbers of individuals to call if they are the only employee who shows up for their shift.
^Employees wiil work on a four (4) weeks rotation basis.
3.4	All work performed on Saturday shall be paid at one (and.
one-half (1 & 1/2) times the hourly rate for the first four (4) hours	double time the hourly rate for all time after
f^ou:r (4) hours.
All work performed on Sunday will be paid a t two and one-half (2 & 1/2) tines the regular hourly rate. If an employee reports for work wkhen. ordered to do so on the above day they will be given a minimum of four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay at the rate of pay for that day. Except where an employee regularly works on a Saturday or Sunday i. e. Engineers <and. Maintenance, in which cast! the employee shall be paid two (2) times the regular rate if required to work on their day off in lieu of Saturday or Sunday.
a]	TruTruck Drivers - (City Deli^xy)
The Employer will schedule these employees to work on Saturday on a rotating basis. All work performed on Saturday will be paid for as outlined above in this Section.
3.5	^rift Pr^emium
The CoiCompany agrees to pay a thirty cent (300) premium to all employees working shift work, for any other shift than the no^ml day shift.	This premium shall not be considered as
part of such employees' ^basic rates.
3.6	T^ime Clocks
The ^Employer agrees that he shall provide time clocks to enable employees to record their hours worked for payroll. purposes. ^Enployees shall punch their time at the time they commence and finish work (and. the time they c<omnence and return from meal periods. Early starts (and. late finishes will be initialed by the For^eman.
A control card €or each department will be used to record the ctorienc^ement and conpletion time of each processing line. This card wi 11 be used as a guideline to ensure that the empemployees punch their card prc^ptly on conpletion work.
3.7	It is agreed between the parties time off shall not be given in lieu of overtime pay.
5
?!I'I(^E 3 cont.
3.8
3.9
3.10
Dllly Guarantee
Each employee called for work shall be entitled to four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay for that call, ifthere is no work available.	lUpom reporting for work, as scheduled,
all waiting time shall be paid at the regular rate of pay.
Rest ^ari^ods
Daily hours of work shall be consecutive with the exception of a fifteen (15) minute rest period to comnence not earlier than one (and one-half (I & 1/2) hours after starting of the shift nor less than one (and one-halt (I & 1/2) hours before the meal period.	periods shall not exceed one (I) hour.
^employees working more than one (1) hour (and thirty (30) minutes in the afternoon shift of their regular scheduled work day shall be given a fifteen (15) minute rest period to be taken not earlier than one and one half (1-1/2) hours nor later than two (2) hours following the lunch period. If an enployee is entitled to receive a fifteen minute rest (and. is sent home before the break, they will receive pay for such time without having to wait in the coffee room, ^employees shall. not be rrequired to work more than five (5) hours without a first meal period (and an additional four and one-half (4 & 1/2) hours without a second meal period.
An ^employee r^equired to work in excess of the first five (5) hours or the second four (and one half (4-1/2) hours will be paid two (2) times their regurnlar rate for all time worked until the meal period is granted. An employee required to work in excess of the second four and one-half (4 & 1/2) hour portion of shift, the Corwill allow thirty (30) minutes with pay at t:he rates paid for that period for such meal period.	employee shall have the choice of a hot meal or
seven dollars ($7.00) on their next cheque. Poultry killer shall have adequate time for personal cleaning before all rest periods (and meal periods.
Work Sch^edule
Scheduled hour:; of work (starting and quitting) shall be posted not later than the ^employee's lunch break for the folla.,.;ing day.
Notice of overtime shall be posted before the employee's lunch break, with approximate quit ting t^ime.
empemployees neeiod in a department other than their regular department w i 11 be told before lunch break.
6

4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5
4.6
4. 7
^When an employee has completed three (3) calendar months in the service of the Cot^&ny or any ■ extended period mutually agreed upon by Union <^d Management, they shall be granted seniority from date of hire.
The Cor^^ty shall maintain and post a seniority Iist every three (3) months for all employees t^d this list shall be available to all aenployees for reference at any time during working hours. A copy of the said seniority list to be forwarded to the Union office.
Length of continuous service with the C<^ompany shall be the dete^rmining factor governing lay-off t^d re-fenployment after lay-off.
As an exception to the above, lay off of employees in the maintenance, shipping or live hang classifications shall be dete^dned by the length of continuous service with the C<^ompany of those employees in maintenance, shipping or live hang departments.
By local arrangements between the C^ompany andand the Union, the names of employees to be laid off or recalled will be available to the Union on the	day the employees are
notified or the day prior. A list of the names shall be forwarded to the Union within one working day of notification.
Promotions shall be based on seniority, ability and ^merit:. Ability t^d merit being equial, seniority shall prevail. In doubtful cases, the Corrrpany shall discuss the matter with the Union t^d shall allCM the employee to qualifyfor a period not exceeding two (2) months.
Pre^tions shall be defined as a transfer to a position paying a higher rate, t^d no employee shall be considered as being demoted unless they are transferred to a position paying a lower rate.
Seniority will prevail when a higher job classification bec^omes vacant provided the ^enployee can perform the job within thirty (30) days. If the loyee cannot porfonn the job satisfactorily within the said period of time then the ^employee shall be returned to the fo^rmer job without loss of seniority. However, if the said period of time ip in question it may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union t^d the C^ompany.
7
't!I'I(CI.E 4 cont.
4.8	If an employee is absent iron work because of sickness or
accident they shall not lose seniority rights, (and shall return to the position held prior ta their absence when capable of performing his/her duties. It shall be the duty of each employee so absent to notify the Cor,of the reasons of the absence, (and.	long their absence will last. ^Where the
employee fails to do so the Cormpany may, at its' discretion, request the ^employee to verify their absence.
New employees wi 11 be on probation for a period of three (3) calendar months or any extended period mutually agreed (upon by the Union (and the	loyer during which time they may be
laid-off without reference to seniority (and the (Co^^ny is under no obligation to re-hire such employees. The termination of a probationary ^employee shall not be the subject of a grievance. All employees retained beyond the three (3) calendar months probation period shall become regular employees (and entitled to seniority in accordance to the length of service (and entitled to all benefits under this Agreement (and may be discharged only for just cause. In the event that it is found that an employee is wrongfully fired, they shall not suffer any loss of seniority, if reinstated as an employee. Any employee with three (3) or' more months of service with the Cor^mpany (and. is laid off, te^nnated, or te^rminates voluntarily (and is rehired within one (1) year, shall (upon completion of thirty (30) days of emp>lo^yment receive the rate of pay for the job classification as specified in Appendix A of this Agreement.
4.10	The words "qualified" or "qualifications" as used in this Agreement shall be interpreted to mean ability to regularly perfonn the job without other assistance.
4.11	Job Pos^tings
^When job vacancies occur with the exception of Lead ^and above the basic job classification in the plant (and the employer requires replacements, (and. when the ^Employer creates	jobs
they shall be posted on the bulletin	for a	of
three (3) working days during which time applications may be made by the employees. Copies of all such postings will be sent to the Union. Such applications made shall receive first consideration within the department concerned. The most senior applicant within the department shall receive such job posting. If no suitable applications are received, then the (Cor^mpany m y hire a person to fill the job. It is understt^d to apply for a j^&ting in the Maintenance and Shipping De^^^wnt, an employee must be qualified. Tetmporary appointments may be made by the ^Employer pending receipt of applications.
8
"'ITICTECTE 4.11 CXJnt.
4.12
4.13
An employee who received a prt^ntion through the posting procedure shall not be permitted to apply again until four (4) consecutive months have elapsed.
Only the original vacancy and the job from which the promotion was made shall be posted. Any vacancies created beyond the second posting w i ll not be posted but will be fille d in accordance w ith the te^nns of Mticle 4.5.
An employee receiving a job posting will be on a trial basis for up to thirty (30) working days. If they cannot perform the job satisfactorily, they shall be returned to their prior job.
An employee shall not lose seniority rights ifhe/she is tei^^rarily absent from work because of illness, accident or leave of absence or is laid off,
An employee shall lose their seniority and employment in the event he or she:
a]	is discharged for just cause;
b]	resigns;
c]	is laid off and fails to repeci: for work within three (3) working days after being notified in writing by certified mail to do so. It shall be the responsibility of the ^employee to keep the CaCompany informed of their current address and telephone number.
d]	is laid off for a ^anicod exceeding twelve (12) months.
After absence due to injury or illness the employee	be
returned to his/her job without loss of seniority when, capable of perfohen.ng his/her duties provided two (2) years have not elapsed between the return and the last day worked, in the case of ct^pensable accident	one year in the case of
illness or non-coinpensable accident.
Upon recuperation from an extended absence the employee will give the layer one (1) weeks notice of his/her intention to return to work
If there is a reoccurrence of the illness or injury that caused the original absence within one (1) month from the date of return then the absence is considered to have continued. It is understi^d that the actual time worked will be added to the time limits specified above before the termination is effected.
9
ARTT^ 5 I.EAVES OF
5.1	Requests for leave of absence extending over a	of more
than one (I) week must be received in writing, t^d in no case to exceed three (3) ronths, provided however, that it may be extended by parties hereto.	The C^Company will return their
answer to a request in writing within seven (7) days. Absence without ,cause shall constitute grounds for dismissal.
5.2	Leave of absence without pay	be granted, by mutual
agreement, in addition to regular vacation, however, ^employees' with four (4) or mare years seniority request t^d shall be granted two (2) weeks of unpaid leave in addition to their regular vacation. Request for leave of absence shall be t^made in writing stating reasons therefore. Leaves of absence for extended vacation shall not be granted during July t^d August.
This request shall be limited to once every four years with a limit of nine (9) persons.
5.3	pregnancy .Leave
The requirements of the ^employment Standards Act as amended Sept^ember 20, 1982 are hereby recognized.
Employees with twelve (12) months of service with the Employer may request, and will be granted, leave of absence because of pr^egnancy.
Employees shall suand.t request for such leave, in writing, at least two (2) weeks prior to the date she intends to commence such leave together with a medical certificate certifying she is pregnant andand indicating the estimated date of confinement. Such leave shall be for a period not exceeding four (4) months prior to confinement and the period, if any, between the date of confinement mentioned in the certificate t^d the actual date.
Within two (2) ronths following delivery and being physically fit, however, ifin the opinion of the employee's doctor that the time before or the date of return to work will endanger her health, an additional extension of leave will be provided up to six (6) weeks. Such extension will be substantiated by a doctor's certificate. Upon return to work the employee w ill be reinstated (and given credit for seniority accumulated from the date leave of absence commences until the date of the employee's return to work.
Notwithstanding the aboabove the six month pregnancy leave my be taken before or after confinement, or combination thereof
10
.TICTE 5.3 cont.
a)	Paternity
Paternity leave of one day, with pay, w i 11 be granted on the occurrence of the birth of a child.
5.4	Funeral Leave
a]	An employee shall be granted not less than two (2) days off
from work, with pay, in the event of death in the ^irediate family, length of such leave shall be determined by the Employer. The term ii^^clate family shall mean mother-in-law, father-in-law,	grandparents,	stepfather,	ste^^ther,
stepbrother, stepsister, (and grandchildren.
b]	Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the death is a case of spouse, father, mother, child, brother or sister, the employee shall be entitled up to four (4) days with pay (and further consideration of leave of absence at the time of bereavement.
c]	If the death is a case of daughter-in-law or son-in-law, the employee shall be entitled to a leave of absence, without pay, up to three (3) days.
d]	Consideration will also be given with respect to travel time. ^Employee's day off or vacation will not be used to circumvent funeral leave.
e]	The EmpEmployer agrees to include the conmon-law relationship.
5.5	The Employer agrees to grant necessary time off, without pay,
and without loss of accrued seniority to any employee who is elected, appointed or designated by the Union to attend a labour convention or to serve in any capacity on legitimate official Union business, provided hCMever, that sufficient notification is given the EmpEmployer so that such ^Employee's position can be Jilied.
Whiere a leave of absence is granted an employee by the EmpEmployer, provided such leave does not exceed one (1) year, the employee shall suffer no loss of seniority for that period.
11
TICTECTE 5 cont.
5.6	Jury Duty
An employee sumroned to jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such jury service t^d the amount of basic wages they would normally have earned had they been scheduled to work on such days. The employee shall report for work when not required by the Court providing there is not less than two (2) hours remaining in his or her no^nral work shift. Time worked on the job in excess of eight (8) hours combined with jury duty (and time worked on the job in one day shall be considered overtime ^and paid at applicable overtime rates.
^ICLE 6 SWAGES
6.1	The Employer agrees that during such time as this Agreement
is in force, it will pay all persons covered by the te^nns of this Agreement, not less than the regular hourly rates set forth in Appendix A of this Agreement and if any employee is receiving a wage in excess of the regular hourly rates contained in Appendix A of this Agreement such wage rates shall not be reduced by reason of the signing of this Agreement.
It is agreed that in the event that other work classifications other than those set forth hereto are instituted, the ^Employer and the Union shall meet t^d negotiate a rate of pay for such employees.
ARTTJCLE 7
mhlDAYS
7.1
The following days shall be considered as paid holidays €or all employees:
New Year ‘s IDay Family ^ay Friday
empire Day (Victoria Day) Dominion Day (Canada Day) First Mot^ay in August
Labour ^ay Thanksgiving ^ay Remembrance ^ay Chris^is Day Boxing Day
a] All employees that have been employed for thirty (30) or 10re calendar days shall be paid for the agreed holidays, subject to Sections b], cj, and d],
12
11.RTICTE 7.1 cxmt.
b]	^employees shall receive pay for Statutory Holiday or Holidays,
provided they work their scheduled work day before (and after the holiday unless absent by reason of bona fide • sickness, accident or emergency.
Employees who are laid-off shall receive pay for Statutory Holiday or holidays that occur within thirty (30) days of the lay-off carnencing, such to be paid upon return 'from lay-off
e} If any of these days fa ll on Saturday or Sunday the following Moray: shall be observed as the holiday.
d]	Any employee required to work on any of the above Statutory Holidays listed in the Agreement, shall be paid at the regular rate for the Statutory Holiday, and in addition receive two (2) times their regular rate for all hours worked on such a day.
e]	Union post notice in lunch roam <^d no one will be refused days off without pay to observe Christtms and/or New Year's at different times.
^ICCTE 8 V^flCATIOOS
8.1
8.2
Employees regularly working full-time shall receive vacation with pay in accordance with the te^nI of the following schedule setting out consecutive years of service. Effective March 21, 1982:
Two	(2)	weeks	vacation	after
Three	(3)	weeks	vacation	after
Four	(4)	weeks	vacation	after
Five	(5)	weeks	vacation	after
Six	(6)	weeks	vacation	after
one ( 1) years service four ( 4) years service nine ( 9) years service fifteen (15) years service twenty (20) years service
Vacation pay for each week of vacation shall be ccomputed as the greater of:
a]	percent (2%) of the ^employee's total gross earnings on which
he is eligible to receive vacation pay, or
Forty (40) hours at the employee's current rate of pay subject to the following conditions -
The forty (40) hour calculation will be pro-rated over a fifty-two (52) week per^rf. when:
13
."tTICIE 8.2 b] cont.
i)	the employee is taking holidays prior to his eligibility date (i.e. anniversary date).
ii)	the employee has been absent due to a leave of absence in excess of two (2) weeks during the anniversary year on which holiday pay i s being paid.
iii)	the employee has been absent due to non-occupational illness or accident in excess cf thirty (30) days during the anniversary year on which holiday pay i s being paid.
iv)	the employee	has	been absent due	to occupational illness	or
accident in excess of six (6) months during the anniversary year on which holiday pay is being paid.
(Note:	the balance owing, if any, w ill be paid once the
. anniversary date is passed)
It is understood that where less than twelve (12) months have elapsed since the employee last took vacation the forty (40) hour calculation referred to in part (b) above w ill be pro-rated over a twelve (12) month period.
8.3	a]	The selection	vacation period	shall be on the basis	of
seniority in	each	department with	the senior employee m y	be
granted at first preference. Vacations my be granted at any time subject to the demand cf the business but the	will make
a sincere effort to grant vacations at the time requested by the employees. Vacations to be t,1k.en in the twelve (12) month period following the individual's anniversary date of each year.	Whtere
employees are entitled to three (3) or more weeks cf paid vacation the additional week or weeks iaboive two (2) weeks m y be scheduled at the discretion of the	loyer.
The Co^eny further agrees where ^employees are entitled to three (3) or more weeks of paid vacation (and request them to be taken in a period between the months cf January 1st and April 30th of each year can take them consecutively.
b] Holiday request forms will be handed out privately (and assigned in private. After all holidays are assigned, the schedules shall be posited.
14
TI(CIE B cont.
8.4	^When a Statutory Holiday occurs during an ^employee's vacation, the
employee will receive an additional days pay, when their vacation falls between April 30th (and September 30th they will receive the Statutory Holiday pay before such vacation, ifthe vacation falls between October 1st (and	1st the employee my request an extra
day in lieu thereof. However, the employee at the time he/she requests his/her vacation ^must inform the empemployer of such request (and granting of such request must be by mutual agreement. If the request is granted, it will be in writing.
8.5	empemployees tenninating their eremployment shall receive payment for vacation allowance on total wages (and salary earned by the employee during the paridd of employment for which no vacation allowance has been paid.
Those entitled to less than two	( 2)	weeks	vacation	-	4%
three	(3)	weeks	vacation	-	6%
four	(4)	weeks	vacation	-	8%
five	(5)	weeks	vacation	-	10%
six	(6)	weeks	vacation	-	12%
8.6	Employees with less than one ,years service with the empemployer who
are laid-off will be paid their accumulated vacation pay at time of lay-off (within two weeks from date o£ lay-off), if such is requested, in writing, by the employee.
PAY
9.1	empemployees regularly working full-time, upon termination by the
empemployer, except employees terminated for proper cause, which shall include but not be limited to dishonesty, drunkenness, or drinking intoxicants during working hours, or insubordination, shall be given individual notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof as follows:
1]	One (1) weeks notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed sixty (60) days service.
2]	'.ZWo (2) weeks notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those whe have two (2) years service.
One additional weeks notice for each full year of service or pay in lieu up to a	of twenty-four (24) weeks.
15
9 ont.
9.2	C(arp>lete Plant Closing
^When it becomes necessary to close the Plant (and it is not expected that those affected will be re-employed, a separation allowance w i 11 be paid to those employees, subject to the following:	.
a]	They have one (I) or more years seniority;
b]	They are actively empployed with the Co^^ny (and accwnulating
seniority or have been laid-off within the thirty (30) day pained preceding the date of notice of closing.	loyees on leave of
absence up to one (1) year and receiving Worker's C^ompensation or off sick w ill be eligible;
c]	They have not refused an offer of other employment by the Ct^pany in another unit, the location of which is reasonably accessible;
d]	They have not been. transferred to another unit of the Cot^&ny;
e]	The closing is not brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slow t^down or other cessation of work, fire, gove^ment action or Act of GcxlGcxl;
f]	In order to qualify for separation allowance, employees w ill continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required;
qi The scale of separation allowance shall be as follows:
Years of
Completed Service	Amount
11
21
1	$ 200.00
2	300.00
3	400.00
4	500.00
5	600.00
6	725.00
7	850.00
8	975.00
9	1,100.00
10	1,225.00
- 20	The ten (JO) year allowance plus
$175.00 for each year over ten. and over	The twenty (20) year allowance p I us
$225.00 for each year over twenty.
16
9.2 g] cont.
10.1
^Employees	accept separation pay under the provisions of this
clause shall on so doing, terndnate their seniority (and employment relationship with the Cot^&ny and shall have no further rights under this ^peement or under any other Agreement between the signing parties.
It is understood that employees are eligible forpc^ment under this clause, shall not be eligible for severance pay as outlined in Section 9.1.
ARTTCCE .10 SICK I.EAVE
rThe ^Employer agrees to provide sick leave with pay, earned at the rate o£ one (1) day sick leave for each month of employment. Employees w i 11 accrue one (1) sick day credit only if they worked every scheduled work day of the calendar month for which the accrual is being calculated. Sick leave with pay shall be cumulative up to twenty (SO) days. Accumulation shall c<^onmence upon completion of a six (6) month eligibility period.
a)	Oz a day that an employee works less than three (3) hours and goes
sick, that day shall be counted as first day of siclmess. Sick employees shall not be requested to rernin in the plant beyond the three (3) hours to circumvent first day of sickness.
b]	No employee on sick leave shall	receive pay for the first day of
absence, except those employees	are off six (6) days or more
and have accumulated credits.
c}	The ^^loyer agrees to pay out unused sick leave credits to
employees after six (6) months	of illness, eighteen (18) months
of lay-off and imnediately upon retirement on Pension. All holidays will be considered as time worked wJkn (^computing sick leave.
d] Doctor's note is not requiired for (2) or less days of illness.
17
ARTICTE 11
m&m'ALizATiCN AND 'THE	^	^PLAN
11.1
11.2 11.3
11.4
Employees must complete three (3) m:nths of employment to be eligible for the benefit coverages set out in Sections 11.2, 11.3, ^and 11.5. Coverage commences on the first day following completion of three (3) ironths service (and stops inmediately upon termination. The Company and Union agree that the premium for these coverages will be paid 75% by the EmpEmployer (and 25% by the employee.
The Company agrees to maintain the Alberta Health Care Insurance coverage.
Group Life Insurance
The Co^mpany agrees to provide as a condition of employment for all employees covered by this Agreement a Group Life Insurance Policy with coverage of the greater of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or an amoamount equal to 2,080 hours times the employee's regular rate of pay.
W^eekly Ind^emnity
The Crn^pany agrees to provide a Weekly Indemnity Insurance program that provides employees with 66-2/3% of their weekly earnings based on 40 hours per week at the regular rate of pay up to a maximum allowed under the Unemployment Insurance Act for a ma^ximum of 15 weeks when absent from work due to a non-occupational illness or accident. Employees on layofi are not eligible to collect Weekly Indemnity benefits.	Weekly income benefits begin with the first
day of disability due to injury or the fourth consecutive working day of disability due to illness but in no event prior to the first day of treatment by a doctor.
l^mtal Plan
a] The Employer agrees to participate in (and contribute to the Alberta Retail Meat Industry Dental Plan.
bj	Effective July 28, 1985, the Employer w ilI contribute to the
jointly a<dmi.nistered Retail Meat Industry Dental Plan twenty-seven cents (27</) pper hour to a naximum of ten dollars and eighty cents ($10.80) par week or forty-three dollars and twenty cents ($43.20) pper four (4) week ^period for' each straight time hour worked by Employees covered by this Agre^ent in the bargaining unit.
Effective July 31, 1989 contributions to the Dental Plan w i11 be made for a11 hours paid by the Employer to members of the bargaining unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days [not including Weekly Indemnity] jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) up to a max.^imum of forty (40) hours ^per week.
18
..RTICTE 11.4 b] cont.
Effective March 28, 1992, the Employer w i 11 contribute to the Dental Plan twenty-nine cents (29$) per hour to a	of
eleven dollars and sixty cents ($11.60) ^per week for all hours paid by the Employer to menembers of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity), jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) up to a maximuim of forty (40) hours per week.
Effective the Mor^> o£ the first pay ^periperiod following ratification (June 18, 1992), the Employer w i II contribute to the Dental Plan thirty-one cents (31$) hour to a	maxitmon of twelve dollars (and
forty cents ($12.40) per week for all hours paid by the loyer to members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity), jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) up to a maximum of forty (40) hours pper week.
Effective March 27, 1993, the Employer will contribute to the Dental Plan thirty-three cents (33$) ^per hour to a maximum of thirteen dollars <^d twenty cents ($13.20) per week for all hours paid by the Employer to mrnrnmbers of the Bargaining Unit (hourspaid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity), jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) up to a max^mm of forty (40) hours pper week.
cj The Employer and the Union agree to the original method of selection of Employer (and Union Trustees to administer the Plan. It is agreed that the te^mJS of the Plan (and its administration w i 11 be entirely the responsibility of these original Trustees or their valid replacements, provided that the Plan is acdministered consistently with this Collective Agreement subject to any applicable government law or regulation (and with the intention of meeting all of the requirements €or continued registration under the Income Tax Act of Canada. Subject to the foregoing, the Employer and the Union agree to be bound by the actions taken by the Employer and the Union Trustees under the Plan.
11.5	I is agreed that the Com^&ny's extended Health Care Program w i ll
be made available to a 11 employees. The premiums payable under this pr^guei are 100% paid by the employee.
Effective April 1,	1990 the Extended Health Care Program as
described above shall bec^ome a JMndatory benefit with premiums paid 75% by the Employer, 25% by the ^employee.
19
11 cont.
11.6	An employees employment benefits coverage provided under Articles 11.2, 11.3, 11.5 shall cease when:
i] in the case of lay-off of an employee
with less than 12 months service after 3 months lay-off
with more than 12 months service after 6 months lay-off.
ii] they have been absent from work due to illness or non-conpensable accident in excess of nine (9) nnnths.
7-ii] They have been absent from work due to compensable accident in excess of .24 months.
11.7	^^sion
Effective January 1, 1990 the Employer agrees to participate in (and contrmbute to the Canadian Comnercial Workers' Industry Pension Plan.
Effective January 1, 1990, the employer agrees to contribute to the C.C.W.I.P.P. fifteen cent:; (15<f) per hour for aH hours paid by the EmpEmployer to	of the bargaining unit, (or current
service benefit (and. ten cents (10(f) pper hour for al. hours paid by the Employer to	of the bargaining unit, for past
service benefits.
Effective	30, 1991, the employer agrees to contribute to
the C.C.W.I.P.P. twenty cents (20f) per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the bargaining unit, for current service benefit and ten cents (10f) pper hour for all hours paid by the Employer to m&embers of the bargaining unit, for past service benefits.
Effective December 28, 1992, the Employer agrees to contribute to the C.C.W. I.P.P. twenty five cents (25f) pper hour for all hours paid by the employer to members of the bargaining unit, for current service benefit (and ten cents (10f) per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to mei^&rs of the bargaining unit, for past service benefits.
Hours paid shall include hours worked, vacations, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity), jury duty, bereavement leave, etc. up to a	o£ forty (40) hours per week.
20
ARTlGCTE 12 AND
12.1
12.2
12.3
12.4
12.5
13.1
GNMENTSCo^^ay shall make provision for the safety (and. health of the employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices (and. other equipment deemed necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Coi^&ny.
a] The Cor^&ny shall have on the premises, persons qualified <^d responsible to provide FIRST AID care to injured employees shall take the necessary measures to pro vide them with medical attention.
The FIRST AID persons shall be identified by a RED CROSS on their helmet.
Employees attending first aid courses at the request o£ the ^Emp.loyer will be ppaid their regular hourly rate for all hours spent on the first aid course.
The Coimpany further agrees to provide adequate heating facilities and a buffer wall to prevent drafts from open doorways as mutually agreed by the Union (and Management.
There shall be a Union Management Safety Cormnittee appointed (and. shall constitute two (2) representatives appointed by the Union (and. two (2) representatives appointed by Management. Both parties shall be motivated by the need for appointing members to the Coirnittee who shall be best ca^pable of promoting safety throughout the Plant. Regular meetings of the Safety C^orttee shall be held each month. A list of names of the Safety C<^^dttee	shall
be kept posted on the bulletin board in the lunch room.
An ^employee injured while working in the Plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if;as a result of such injury they are sent	or to the hospital or for medical attention (and
transportation w ill be provided.
No employee will be r^equired to work alone at any time at the Plant as stated in Article 3.3.
^ICTE 13
^^rnims AND JOB ASSIGNMENTS
The ^loyer agrees that all pr^ortions (and. job assignments involving an increase in. pay will be based on seniority the employee affected, provided qualifications (and. ability are comparatively equal.
21
13 cont.
13.2
13.3
14.1
14.2
14.3
14.4
14.5
^Employees required to teimpo>rarlly fill a higher rated job, shall receive the classified rate for balance of shift, but if retired te^norarily to fill a lower rated job, shall receive their regular rate of pay.
iWhere employees are required to transfer from one department to another on a po^mEnent basis due to the operational needs of the C^ompany it shall be done on the following basis.
The opportunity to transfer shall first be given to senior employees. In the event that no ^employee wishes to take the transfer, the least senior employees shall be transferred <and. shall be given the first opportunity to transfer back to that department when a position becomes available.
^TCTE: 14
^PROV.ISIWS
A suitable rack will be furnished in the dressing r^ooms or elsewhere on which to hang wet clothes	aprons.	This rack
shall be in a place that is heated so that clothing will dry in a reasonable time.
The Cor^mpany will allow adequate relief as well as the necessary time for changing clothes or equipment necessitated by change from one job to another where working conditions are different.
The ^Employer agrees that the Union will have the right to use the bulletin board, to be used for posting notices of official Union business exclusively, <and. not to be used for discriminating political propaganda.	All such notices shall be s^utmitted to a
Cor^mpany official for approval before posting.
The Union agrees not to call a meeting o£ its	who are
employees of the (Co^mpany during working hours that w i 11 interfere with the no^^l operations of the Company.
All unifo^rms, smocks, aprons, caps, hairnets, gloves and new ^nots t^d any other special wearing apparel an ^enployee is required to wear, shall be furnished and laundered by or at the expense of the Employer. The first issue oi new plastic coats on wet lines will be charged out at cost and further issues at no charge on exchange. The employee shall be responsible for any such apparel they lose providing adequate lockers are supplied.
The Employer further agrees to supply and clean Truck Drivers unifo^rms at no cost to the employee. I is understood ^and agreed that all such wearing apparel is the property of the Employer.
22
1TICTE 14.5 cxmt.
14.6
14. 7
14.8
14.9
a] Appropriate freezer coats tand. gloves wi 11 be provided for employees working in holding coolers or freezing units. The Cor^^ay shall provide woolen gloves and felt insoles with each issue of rubber boots. The number of coats supplied shall be determined by the ^Employer. It is underst^ood that such wearing apparel is the property of the ^ployer and the employee must not take such wearing apparel away from the premises.
bj Maintenance employees other employees in the Plant required to wear safety shoes upon c<omp>letion of six (6) months of employment shall receive seventy-five dollars ($75.00) toward a new pair of safety shoes thereafter be l.i.mi.ted to seventy-five dollars ($75.00) every six (6) months, if needed. To qualify for the reimbursement the old pair of safety shoes must be turned in to the Cormpany. The Cormpany further agrees that where the employees are required to wear rubber boots, the &empJ.oyees w iII buy their first issue of rubber ^x>ts, any other issue thereafter the	w i 11 reimburse
the employee by th e amount of fifteen dollars ($15.00) toward a i^w pair, provided the old boots are turned in. At the' employee's request the C^Company w i 11 replace suitable rubber boots at no cost to the employee. The C^Company also agrees to maintain a proper supply of rubber boots for employees.
The C^ompany agrees to supply proper external hearing protection or internal hearing protection. The employee ^ay elect which type to wear <and. w i 11 be allowed the option of wearing both.
Union Representative callingg on Plant:
Any authorized Union representative my, upon receiving pe^nnission from the EnpEnployer, enter the Plant, providing however, the said representative shall not unduly occupy the time of employees during working hours.
The ^employee shall have the right to r^equest the presence of a Union Steward at any disciplinary meeting, which m y result in a suspension or termination of an empemployee.
0£f to Vote:
The ^Employer agrees to fully ctomp>ly with any law requiring that employees be given time off to vote.
^Employees w i 11 be granted time off without pay to keep doctor or dentist appointments or other appointments providing however, the EnpEnployer is given one (1) weeks notice in advance except in emergency.
The ^Employer agrees to display the Union Shop card which shall be furnished to the ^Employer free of charge by the Union.
23
1TICLE 14 cont.
14.10
14.11
15.1
15.2
15.3
16.1
The Co^pony agrees to provide copies of all attendance or discipline letters to the Union.
Pre employment medicals are to be paid for by the employee. Ml subsequent medicals required by the Employer are to be paid for by the ^Employer.
ARTICLE 15
The	of the Plant and the direction of the working force
including (without limiting the generality of the foregoing) the right to hire, suspend or discharge for cause, to assign (and re-assign employees to jobs, to transfer employees from department to department, to increase and decrease the working force, to determine the products to be handled, produced, processed or manufactured, the schedule of production,	(and. the methods,
processes and means of production <and handling are vested exclusively with the Coprovided these rights w ill not be used to discriminate against ^employees.
Cases, of disagreement shall be dealt with in accordance with the Grievance Procedure as outlined in this Agreement.
The Company retains all rights to l^wige the business not limited by the express provision of th is Agreement.
ARTICLE 16 MJ Di^^^INATirn
No employee shall be transferred, dismissed or discriminated against in any wqv for any lawful Union activity, or for serving on a Union Co^rrunittee outside of business hours, or for reporting to the Union any violation of the provisions of this Agreement.
^Any ^employee alleging wrongful transfer, dismissal, or discrimination,	place his or her allegation before the Union
Representative (and if said Representative considers that the objection has merit, the transfer, dismissal or lay-off shall become a grievance (and be subject to the Grievance Procedure as established in this Agreement.
There shall be no discrimination against any empemployee for refusal to cross a legal picket line or obey a lawful Union order. The ^Employer further agrees that there w i 11 be no discrimination with reference to Human Rights Act:, Section 6, lA (and B.
24
ARTICLE 16 cont.
16.2
17.1
18.1
Sexual
Where an employee alleges that sexual harassment has occurred on the job, the employee shall have the right to grieve under the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 17
^CLES^roRS AND ASSIGNS ^CLAUSE
This ^peement shall be binding upon the C^onpany herein, (and its successors (and assigns, and no provision herein contained, shall be nullified or affected in any manner as a result of any consolidation, sale, transfer, or assignment, or any other form of business organization, or by any change geographical or otherwise, in the location of the Ct^ompany herein. The Coinpany agrees an Agreement has been entered into, as a result of which this Agreement shall continue to be binding on the person or persons or any business organization continuing the business. It is the intent of the parties that this Agreement shall remain in effect for the ju 11 tenn thereof, regardless of any kind of change, of any kind, in management, location, form of business, organization or <own.ership.
ARTICLE 18
Any complaint, disagreement, or difference of opinion between the parties hereto concerning the interpretation, application and operation, or any alleged violation of the te^rms of this Agreement, shall be considered a grievance.
All grievances not presented to the ^Employer within thirty (30) calendar days fra from the date the grievance arose, shall be waived.
It is further agreed that fourteen (14) calendar days shall apply with respect to grievances concerning the dismissal of any employee.
F^irst S^tep:
The employee shall discuss the matter with his or her immediate superior, or request the Shop Steward or Union Representative to do so on his or her behalf.
If the ^Etrployee is not satisfied with this settlement, then:
25
18.1 cont.
19.l
^^x>ed S^tep:
Grievances shall be presented in writing and shall clearly set forth the grievance and the contentions of the aggrieved party following which the Union Representative or Representatives, and the ^Labour Relations Representative of the ^Employer shall meet and in good faith shall endeavour to settle the grievance sutmitted. If a satisfactory settlement cannot be reached, or i£ the party fails to meet the other party within fourteen (14) days of receiving the written grievance, either party my, by written notice served on the other require sutmission of the grievance to a Board of Arbitration. Such Board to be established in the manner provided in Article 19 of this Agreement.
ARTICCEi 19 OF
The Board of Arbitration shall be	of three (3) members
and shall be established as follows:
Within ten (10) working days (excluding Sundays and holidays) following receipt of such notice, the Employer and the Union shall each select a representative to serve on the Board of Arbitration. The Representative so selected shall meet within five (5) days (excluding Sundays and holidays) after they have' both been selected, and choose ai} additional	to act as Chairman. In
the event of failure of the nominees of the Union and the EmpEmployer, to agree upon a Chai^rman within five (5) days as specified, the Minister or Deputy Minister of Labour shall be immediately requested to name a third m^ember who shall act as Chai^rman of the Board of Arbitration. Within five (5) days of the appointment of the impartial Chai^nnan, the Board of Arbitration shall sit to consider the matter in dispute and shall render a decision within fourteen (14) days after its first session. It is understood and agreed that the time limits as se t forth here in may be altered by mutual agreement between the ^Employer and the Union.
26
T?TICIE 19.1 cont.
No person shall serve on the ^Board of Arbitration who is involved or directly interested in the controversy under consideration. Grievances submitted to an Arbitration Board shall be in writing shall clearly specify the nature of the issue. In reaching its decision the Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with the ^power to change, tidily or alter this Agreement in any of its parts, but my, however, interpret its provisions. The expense of the impartial Chai^rman shall be borne equally by the Employer <and. the Union, unless otherwise provided by law. The findings and the decisions of the	of Arbitration shall be binding and
enforceable on all parties.	A decision of the majority of the
Board of Arbitration shall be deemed to be a decision of the Board.
ART’ICIE 20
This Section shall apply only to those ^employees who are pet^nent full-time empemployees of the ^Employer.
For the purpose of this Section "full- timepe^nnanent empemployees" shall	any employees employed on a full-time basis for a
period of time exceeding three (3) consecutive months.
Whiere an employee entitled to the guaranteed work week is called to work during the week they shall be entitled to receive pay not less than on the following basis each year:
January 1st to 31st receive thirty (30) hour pay for that week; June 1st to December 31st - thirty-six (36) hours pay for that week;
regardless of the fact that such employee not work for that	hours.
Effective July 11th, 1978 employees hired during the period between January 1st to 31st upon c^ompleting thirty (30) calendar days of employment with the EmpEmployer shall receive thirty (30) hours pay regardless of the fact that such employee not work for that ^many hours.
The following provisions shall apply in this regard:
27
WI^CTE 20 cont.
a]	The Employer w i 11 adjust employees in proportion to the work available or expected to be available. To provide such regular employees with guaranteed hours of work, the Employer shall be free to distribute within departments and to transfer employees from one department to another, reasonable consideration being given to seniority, ability <and. to any extreme changes in physical working conditions.
b]	The employer expects	all	employees will perform
conscientiously, whatever task be assigned to them in their respective de^^tments. If any employee refuses to perform the work assigned to them, the Employer- shall be absolved from any guarantee in respect of the work performed during that week.
c]	The guarantee shall be the same for weeks in which one (1) of the ten (10) Statutory Holidays occur as in other weeks, the pay received for said Statutory Holiday shall be regarded as part of the guarantee.
d]	employee wwlv is absent from work after having started to work on a week which would entitle them to receive the guaranteed work week, shall have their guarantee reduced by the time so lost.
e]	Any employee who is laid off in excess of one (1) month is not eligible for the guaranteed work week provision in the week of recall.
f]	Where overtime or other Premium pa id hours are worked they shall be corputed as, one hour worked is one hour of the guarantee only.
28
ARTICTE 21
AND	^CLAUSE
This Agreement shall be effective from March 30, 1991 until March 25, 1994 and shall remin in force thereafter from year to year, but either party may not less than sixty (60) days before expiry or renewal date o£ such Agreement, give notice in writing to the other party to tenni.nate such Agreement or to negotiate a revision thereof.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE EMPWYER
Signed this	day of
7
j 1992 .
29
A
Effective 23 March 1987 new hire rate of pay will be $9.00 per hour in classification I and II.
Re^troactive Pay:
Effective Monday after ratification (3 July 1989) increase in wages for all classifications (excluding starting rate) by thirty cents (300) ^per hour retroactive to April 1, 1989.
Effective April 1, 1989 - increase saw operators by an additional five cents (50) per hour.
Effective 1 April 1990 - increase wages by an additional fifteen cents (150) ^per hour to all classifications excluding starting rate.
Effective 1 October 1990 - increase wages by an additional fifteen cents (150) per hour to all classifications excluding starting rate.
All employees on payroll at date ■of ratification (June 18, 1992) shall be paid .retroactive pay on all hours worked as follows:
March 31, 1991 to March 28, 1992 at the rate o£ sixty cents (600) pper hour.
March 29, 1992 to date of ratification (June 18, 1992) at the rate of ninety cents (900) ^per hour.
Employees who have left the employ of the Employer between the expiry date of the Last Agreement and date of ratification of thithis Agreement (June 27, 1989) will be entitled to .retroactive pay i£ they apply to the employer, in writing, within twenty-one (21) days after retroactive pay is paid by the EmpEmployer.
30
..PENDDIX A - WAGES
WAGES *CLASS I
Starting Rate Aft e r 3 months Aft e r 6 months
Scalers, Graders Cryovac Operators Kitchen Staff
Saw Operators
Lead Hand Light Duty
First A i d (Full-time)
Effective	Effe ctive	Effec tive
31 MAR 91	28 MAR 92	27 MAR 93
$ 9.00	$9.00	$9.00
11.66	11.96	12.26
11.83	12.13	12.43
11.85	12.15	12.	45
12.13	12.43	12.	73
12.18	12.48	12.	78
12.63	12.93	13.	23
WAGES CLASS I I
Effective Effective Effective 31 MAR 91 28 MAR 92 27 MAR 93
Starting Rate	$ 9.00	$9.00	$9.00
A ft e r 3 months	12.23	12.53	12.83
A ft e r 6 months Assembling orders Condemned (Utility) Feather Room Ice Control
Ice Packing Janitorial Night Clean Up Pal 1 et Loading Reverse Hanging (Custom Ki Tank Mover Truck and Crate Wash Vacuum Operator Freezer Hand Fork Operators	12.43	12.73	13.03
Maintenance Receiver-Shipper Truck Driver	12.58	12.88	CD
Hangers Live	12. 68	12.98	13.28
Poultry Killer	12. 73	13.03	13.33
Lead Hand	12. 78	13.08	13.38
Working Foreman	12.93	13.23	13. 53
Engineers	13.28	13.58	13.88
*CLASS I These positions will not require an employee to lift in excess of thirty five (35) pounds at any one time during the perfo^.rnce of their duties.
31
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between	Lil^ydale ^^^^ative ^Limited
Edmonton, Alberta
and:	United Food	Workers
Local 312A, Edmonton, Alberta
The parties agree to work together to inpl^ement the WindCM! of Opportunity Program.	The intent of the program being the reduction of the incident of
i Yfiuries.
Signed this. /(	of	■_______f 1992.
32
of
between:	Lil^ydale ^^^xrative Limited
Edmonton, Alberta
and:	Uni^ted Food and Cc^^^ial Pk>rkers
Local 312A, Edmonton, Alberta
The employer recognizes that te^^rature fluctuation in the staff lunch and change rooms have been a problem and w i 11 work towards solving the problem.
Signed this
k
day of
j 1992.
33
PART
LILYDALE ATTENDANCE PROGRAM
IWhenever an employee is unable to attend work a loss is incurred both by the ^employee (and the	loyer.
We all understand that there will be occasions during everyone's work life when they w i ll be unable to attend work, but it would seem to make go sense to work together to find ways of avoiding the avoidable absences, or working together in a genuine attempt to create	maintain an environment both
physical (and social that w i 11 promote regular attendance at work, along with an understanding that lW have a shared interest in lowering the incidence of absence.
The Lilydale Attendance Program was a first attempt to start (^cbwn this road of co-operation. Some of the employees found the program intimidating <^d felt it was negative, rather than positive, as intended. Hopefully the following revisions w ill help to alleviate these impressions.
PART1
LILYDALE
It is understood that the Lilydale Attendance Program is to be revised to
incorporate the following changes:
1.	That absences as a result of occupational illness or injury (W.C.B.) shall not be within the scope of the Program.
2.	That reference to "termination of ^emplo^yment", as outlined in the Lilydale Attendance Program, shall not apply to those employees covered by the current Collective Agreement, but w ill be determined in accordance with the provisions of A-ticle 4.13.
3.	That the Program will be changed in ■ such a manner as to'reflect its positive intent.
4.	The Cot^&ny agrees to (^wnd the Attendance Program letters on ^employee files that refer to W.C.B. absences or teand.nation of ^emplo^yment.