COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
LILYDALE INC., Wynyard, Saskatchewan, hereinafter called the ACompany®
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION, LOCAL S-955, hereinafter called the AUnion®
OF THE SECOND PART
AGREEMENT
Expires: January 31, 2007
00271(09)
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 6th day of November, A.D. 2004.
BETWEEN:
LILYDALE CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED, Wynyard, Saskatchewan,
hereinafter called the “Company”
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION, LOCAL
S-955, hereinafter called the "Union”
OF THE SECOND PART
THE PARTIES HERETO MUTUALLY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	It is the intention of this Agreement to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees and to provide an amicable means of settling differences which may possibly arise, and as well, to set forth conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto; and to promote the mutual interests of the Company and its employees; and it is recognized by this Agreement to be the responsibility of the Union to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
ARTICLE 2 - TERMS
2.01	In the Agreement, wherever the words “he”, “his” or “him” appear, it shall be construed as meaning any employee, male or female; wherever the words “employee” or “employees” appear, it shall mean any person covered by this Agreement.
2.02	In this Agreement wherever the word “permanent” appears, it shall be construed as meaning any employee, male or female, who has completed his or her probationary period as defined in Article 5.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - BARGAINING AGENCY
3.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency with respect to
wages, hours and all other conditions of employment for the employees employed by the Company in the Town of Wynyard except:
(a) Management, Sales, Hatchery, Rendering Plant and Office employees.
3
It is agreed that there shall be no loss of bargaining unit jobs as a result of out-of-scope positions being created.
Every employee who is now, or hereafter becomes a member of the Union, shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment and every new member whose employment commences hereafter shall, on hiring, apply for and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of his employment.
Persons whose jobs are not in the bargaining unit will not work on anyjobs for which rates are established by this Agreement except for the purpose of instruction, experimentation or in extreme emergencies.
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK-OFF
4.01	Upon written request of any employee and upon request of the Union, the Company shall deduct each month the Union Dues, Initiation Fees and Assessments for that month of such employee. The amount collected shall be remitted in one payment immediately following the second pay period in the month to the person designated by the Union, together with a list of the employees from whom the deductions were made, the names of the employees hired and the names of those employees whose employment has terminated. The Company shall at all times be advised of the name and address of the individual to whom the said dues are to be remitted.
ARTICLE 5 - SENIORITY
5.01	(a) Seniority for all in-scope employees shall be defined and determined from the
first (1”) day an employee enters the service of the Company. Effective May 25, 2001, the seniority date for each current employee, as shown on the seniority list shall continue to be the seniority date for such employee and shall not be changed unless and until the seniority is lost pursuant to 5.01(c).
New employees shall be on probation for a period of seventy-five (75) days’ worked during which time they may be dismissed without reference to seniority. “Days worked” refers to days when the employee is present at work performing their duties. The Company shall be under no obligation to rehire such employee and such dismissal shall be deemed just cause. Such probationary employees shall not have access to the grievance and arbitration provisions of the Collective Agreement except where, in the sole opinion of the Union Grievance Committee, the following criteria has been alleged to have been violated by the Company in assessing the dismissal of a probationary employee as to whether or not the Company has met its onus ofjust cause.
In assessing the just cause test of a probationary employee dismissal, the
(b)	(i)
00
3.02
3.03
4
parties shall take into account whether the employee was given a fair opportunity to demonstrate his/her ability and whether the employee was notified of deficiencies in his/her performance and given an opportunity to correct them.
(c)
An employee shall only lose seniority in the event:
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
he is discharged for cause and is not reinstated; voluntarily terminates;
is laid off for a period of longer than twelve (12) months.
For the purpose of determining seniority of two (2) or more employees who have the same seniority dates, their entire social insurance numbers will be used. The employee with the lowest social insurance number will be considered the senior.
5.02	(a)	(i)
In all layoff, recalls after layoffs, vacancies and promotions, ability being sufficient, seniority shall govern.
(jj) An employee has the right to bump ajunior employee for shortage of
work (meaning employees being sent home from any or all departments) on a day-to-day basis, regardless of his/her classification and/or department, ability being sufficient to perform all aspects of the job without training and/or assistance provided that they have the same starting time and it is being done prior to the last rest period in the day. Should an employee elect not to bump a junior employee prior to the last rest period, an employee will work at any job assigned by management or, at his option, go home for the remainder of that shift, in which case, such employee shall waive his/her rights to his/her guarantee of hours. Subject to the foregoing, employees shall not be allowed to bump but will be transferred to other areas of the Plant and/or Round House at the sole discretion of the Company where there is available work.
Note: For the purpose of this Article, the Departments shall be defined as follows:
(1)	Packing (Processing) Staffwhich includes Tub Wash Attendants, Laundry Attendants and Quality Control Staff, Cooler Attendants, Blast Attendants;
(2)	Live Receiving; Round House to Plant and Eviscerating Staff;
(3)	Freezer and Shipping Staff;
(4)	Maintenance;
(5)	Live Haul Truck Drivers’
(6)	Fresh Frozen Truck Drivers’
5
(7)	Sanitation Staff
Quality Assurance Staff Truck Mechanics.
(iii)	Rules of Bumping for layoff and a permanent elimination of positions.
Employees exercising their rights to bump shall do so subject to the following rules:
(1)	A layoff shall be defined in Article 5.01(c)(3) not to exceed a period of twelve (12) months from the date an employee has received his/her notice of layoff from his/her position with the Company.
(2)	An employee who exercises his/her right to bump shall bump a junior employee in either a permanent position or a relief position.
An employee who has been displaced out of his/her relief position shall have the right to bump a junior employee in a relief position only;
An employee who is displaced out of his/her permanent position and his/her relief position shall have the right to bump a junior employee in a permanent position and a junior employee in a relief position;
In all cases of permanent layoff or job abolition, employees shall be allowed twenty (20) days’ worked during which time they shall be familiarized with all aspects of the job to which they have chosen to bump into. In case where an employee has previously worked in the position, the time frame shall be ten (10) days’ worked at which time the Company shall deem the employee qualified and the employee will be notified that he/she is qualified and the position is permanent. Should an employee fail to acquire the ability to sufficiently perform all aspects of the job in the time frames allotted then he/she shall be laid off.
(3)	All employees who were affected by the bumping procedures shall
have the first right of a permanent recall to their former positions.
(4)	Any employee who accepts recall to his/her former position shall only vacate the permanent position he/she was in but will continue to hold any relief position provided the recalled position does not
6
bar the holding of a relief position.
(4) Any employee who refuses to accept recall to his/her former position shall then vacate all permanent positions and be reclassified to a Floater position. In such a case, the Company will post and fill the vacancies created by such a decision.
When a short kill is scheduled which causes a transfer of employees from another area of the plant to the packaging department in order to make up the guarantee of hours then the parties agree that employees shall indicate their willingness to transfer by placing their name on a Department Transfer List posted by the Company on a day-to-day basis as required by the Company. The Company shall then select the appropriate number of employees as needed based on their seniority from the list. Should an employee not wish to place his name on the list then such employee: or employees shall waive their right to their guarantee of hours. All employees shall make their preference known no later than the first meal break each day of the posting and all affected employees shall be notified each day.
However, if the Company requires an employee or employees to leave the plant and go home then the guarantee of hours shall apply. NOTE: List to be posted by the kill board.
(c)	(i) The Company has agreed to establish a transfer list every six (6)
months. The Company may, at any time, require employees to transfer between shifts. Such transfers will be requested of employees in order of seniority.
(ii) The Company will choose from the list an equal number of male and female employees by seniority to a maximum of three (3) for each gender to a maximum of six (6) employees total to transfer from the 2nd Shift to the Day Shift or visa versa.
(iii) Once an employee has transferred to a Floater Position on another shift, such transfer shall be final and binding to the new shift for the total six (6) months.
(iv)	This does not restrict employees from any shift from bidding on permanent Bid or Relief Classified positions.
(v)	It is clearly understood that any employee who voluntarily decides to transfer to another shift in the Floater Position shall vacate his/her Permanent Classified Bid Position and such position shall immediately be posted and filled under terms of the Agreement.
7
5.03	The Company shall post and maintain an accurate seniority list to include name, seniority date,job classification and wage rate. The list shall be posted in a conspicuous place accessible to ail employees every four (4) months. A copy of the list shall be provided to the Union who shall bring to the attention of the Company any errors or omissions and same shall be corrected.
5.04	(a) Notice of vacancy, promotions and new positions shall be posted on the bulletin
board in the receiving coffee room, the trucking coffee room and the plant coffee room and employees shall be allowed three (3) working days from the date of posting in which to make applications for such positions. The names of all applicants shall be posted on the bulletin board as well as the name of the successful applicant which shall be selected and posted within one (1) day of the closing date of the posting.
(b) Subject to sub-paragraph 5.04(c), an employee will be limited to holding one (1) Permanent Bid Position and/or one (1) Permanent Relief Bid Position.
Employees will be restricted to two (2) successful bids between January 1st and December 31st each calendar year. In cases where an employee bids on more than one posting at the same time and is accepted to more than one position, it is understood that the employee can only choose one permanent bid and/or a relief bid and it will be considered one (1) or two (2) successful bids. During the qualifying period as defined under Section 5.05(a), should an employee give up the bid position, the next candidate in line who bids on the position should be given the opportunity for the position. If no other bid is submitted then the Company shall re-post the job posting and failing any applicants, the Company shall then appoint someone for the position.
Note: Definition of “qualified to bid” means being open to bid at the date the posting closes. Anything that takes place after that date is disregarded.
The following employees are not permitted to hold any Relief Bid Position except as specified below and it is agreed that all employees must perform their regular primary functions before relief duties until the Company has a qualified relief employee to perform their duties:
□	Leadhands;
□	Employees doing Night Cleanup work (may hold Relief Leadhand position in their own department);
0	Employees doing S.I.S, work (Streamlined Inspection Service System
work);
□	Day Shipping (may hold Relief Leadhand position in their own department.)
8
□	Night Shipping (may hold Relief Leadhand position in their own department).
□	Mechanics;
□	Live Haul Drivers (may hold one of these Relief positions, Night Watchman or Mechanic);
□	Delivery Drivers;
□	All Maintenance Employees;
U	Employees doing Quality Assurance	Work;
U	Truck Driver (may hold one of these	Relief positions, Mechanic, Round
House to Plant a.m. and p.m, and Pallet Washer).
5.05	(a) The successful applicant to a vacant position or to a new position shall be allowed
a reasonable qualifying period of twenty (20) days’ worked and ten (1O) days’ worked in cases where an employee has previously worked in the position whereby the Company shall deem the employee qualified and the employee will be notified that he/she is qualified and the position is permanent, however, this time frame may be extended due to illness, injury, union business and/or any other bona fide reason. If, during the qualifying period, the Company or an employee, after consultation with the Union, decides that the employee cannot satisfactorily perform the new job, he/she shall revert to his/her former position. Employees shall receive the applicable job rate provided for in the wage rate schedule for the job or jobs they have been posted or appointed to when they become qualified retroactive to the date they first assumed the new position. The word “qualified” as used in this Agreement shall be interpreted to mean regularly perform the job without assistance. In the event the qualified employee does not wish to continue working in the new position, the employee must follow the normal bidding process to obtain another position or he/she will revert to a Floater position and work throughout the Plant. The Company shall place the successful applicant into his/her posted position within ten (10) calendar days of the closing of the posting, however, this time frame may be extended due to illness, injury, union business and/or any other bona fide reason.
(b) The above provision shall not be applicable when employees are in the position of Engineers, Refrigeration, Electrician, Mechanic and Maintenance who decide to transfer or bid out of their respective classification. An employee transferred or promoted to a new position shall be allowed a reasonable qualifying period of twenty (20) days’ worked and ten (10) days’ worked in cases where an employee has previously worked in the position. If, during the qualifying period, the Company or the employee, after consultation with the Union, decides he/she is unsuited to the new job and cannot adapt to the new work, the employee shall revert to a Floater position.
5.06	(a) The Company and the Union recognize the need for relief positions within the
plant and they shall be posted as outlined in clauses 5.02 and 5.04. The posting shall indicate that the position is a relief position.
9
(b)
Any employee holding a relief position shall be paid the regular rate of pay for his/her regular bid job unless performing the relief position duties. When performing the relief position duties, the employee shall be paid at the rate of pay for the relief position as outlined in Article 14.05.
5.07	Every employee shall be responsible to see that the Company has his/her correct address and telephone number at all times and the Company shall not be under any obligation to trace such employee if he/she cannot be located at the address on file in the Company office.
5.08	Should an employee on recall be unable to return to work on five (5) days’ notice, such employee shall forfeit his/her seniority rights and any other rights under this Agreement, except in case of sickness to the employee or his/her family or other satisfactory reason agreed upon by the Company and the Union. In case of sickness, a doctor’s certificate or other satisfactory proof is required.
5.09	All calls to work, recalls and layoffs shall be made in writing or by telephone and an indication of the notification shall be forwarded to the Chief Shop Steward of the Union.
5.10	When an employee is recalled from layoff, he/she shall be entitled to return to his/her regular bid job when the position becomes available and shall receive his/her former rate of pay that he/she was receiving prior to layoff and all other employees affected shall return to their former positions.
Employees hired by the Company as summer students shall not be allowed to bid n permanent positions or relief positions. The Company shall have the right to use such employees as Floaters when and where required.
Students who wish to return to work as a summer student the following year are required to submit a leave of absence form (Student) by the end of July each year in order to obtain approval for a leave of absence.
Where a student wishes to have full-time employment, he/she must submit a request for a full-time position to the Personnel Clerk.
Student employees or students on leave of absence who leave the service of the Company for the purpose of educational upgrading for not more than one (1) year shall be given credit for previous experience with the Company for the purpose of determining their wage rate when they return to the service of the Company.
Student employees who receive a leave of absence pursuant to this Article will not accumulate seniority while on a leave of absence, however, such employees shall maintain their seniority accumulated prior to such leave of absence and student seniority dates of hire shall be adjusted to reflect the time that such
5.11	(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
10
employees are away from the workplace.
For all other applicable purposes of the Collective Agreement, subject to the
foregoing provisions of this Article, Students' plant-wide seniority rights shall be applicable.
The rate of pay for such students shall be determined by Appendix “B” of this Collective Agreement and shall be paid for the duration of the summer term.
For the purpose of rehiring such students for the following summer term, the Company shall maintain a separate seniority list for all summer students. The Company reserves the right to determine the number of summer students required each year.
Should a summer student continue his/her employment beyond August 31st, the Company will reclassify such employee as a permanent employee and give such an employee credit for all accumulated seniority credits for the current year only to establish an employee’s seniority date on the seniority list.
Summer students shall not qualify for benefits (except the Dental Plan) under Article 16.01 (new Appendix “C”) of this Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 6 - VACATIONS
6.01	Every employee shall be entitled, after each year of his/her employment with the Company, to an annual vacation of three (3) weeks.
6.02	Any employee who has five (5) or more consecutive years of employment shall be entitled to four (4) weeks’ annual vacation.
6.03	Any employee who has twelve (12) or more years of service shall be entitled to five (5) weeks’ annual vacation.
6.04	Any employee who has seventeen (17) or more years of service shall be entitled to six (6) weeks’ annual vacation.
6.05	(a) All accumulated vacation pay owed to the employees shall be paid to employees
to the pay period prior to the vacation week(s) selected. All unused vacation pay shall be paid to employees on or before the second pay period in May of each calendar year and all unused vacation credits shall be considered to have been taken. Such vacation pay shall be calculated separately from regular pay for the purpose of lawful deductions.
(b)	Where an employee is entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) weeks, he/she
shall be paid three fifty-seconds (3/52nds) of his/her total earnings during the year
11
immediately preceding the date on which he/she became entitled to an annual vacation; and where the employee is entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) weeks, he/she shall be paid one-thirteenth (1/13th) of his/her earnings during the year immediately preceding the date on which he/she became entitled to the annual vacation; and where an employee is entitled to five (5) weeks’ annual vacation, he/she shall be paid five fifty-seconds (5/52nds) of his/her earnings during the year immediately preceding the date on which he/she became entitled to the annual vacation; and where an employee is entitled to six (6) weeks’ annual vacation, he/she shall be paid six fifty-seconds (6/52nds) of his/her earnings during the year immediately preceding the date on which he/she became entitled to the annual vacation.
6.06	If the employment of an employee is terminated, the Company shall pay him/her, in addition to all other amounts due him/her, 3/52nds of his/her total earnings if he/she is entitled to three (3) weeks’ vacation; or l/13th if he/she is entitled to four (4) weeks’ vacation; or5/52nds if he/she is entitled to five (5) weeks’ vacation; or3/26ths if he/she is entitled to six (6) weeks’ vacation, as the case may be, for his/her period of employment with the Company, but, if the employee has been permitted to take an annual vacation at any time during his/her period of employment, he/she shall be paid, at the rate applicable, on his/her total earnings after the date on which he/she became entitled to the last annual vacation which he/she was permitted to take.
6.07	(a) Starting on March lsl of each year, the Company will contact each employee in
order of Department seniority to make his or her preference for vacation known subject to the Company’s policy on vacation scheduling. However, an employee’s preference shall be made based on his/her currentjob at the date of the selection process. Thereafter, the Company shall schedule any employee who has not made his/her preference known or has to make prior arrangements concerning his/her vacation with the Personnel Clerk. The Company then agrees that the vacation list shall be finalized and posted by April 30th indicating every employee’s chosen vacation dates.
(b)	However, should an employee change shifts or Departments, he/she shall not have the right to re-schedule vacation entitlement unless vacant weeks exist in the vacation schedule of the shift to which the employee has transferred.
6.08	An employee entitled to three (3) weeks’ vacation or more shall be entitled to carry over any part of or all of their vacation credits which shall be taken before the end of April each year.
6.09	If any Paid Holiday, hereinafter enumerated, occurs during the period of any annual vacation which an employee has been permitted to take, the employee will receive pay for that Statutory Holiday. The Union, employees and Company agree that the employee, by seniority, may take the additional day of annual vacation to which the employee would otherwise be entitled as an (unpaid) approved day off either the Friday prior or the
12
Monday after the Statutory Holiday. ARTICLE 7 - PAID HOLIDAYS
7.01	(a) Employees shall receive a day off without loss of pay on the following public
holidays:
New Year’s Day Victoria Day Labour Day Remembrance Day Boxing Day Saskatchewan Day
and any other holidays proclaimed by Federal, Provincial or Civic Authority.
Good Friday Canada Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Birthday
In addition to paid holidays above, employees on the payroll as of the third Monday in February and having at least twenty (20) days’ seniority shall be granted one (1) individual holiday which shall be taken in the calendar year in which the employee becomes eligible for such individual holiday and at a time agreed upon between the Company and the employee. Should the Company be required by law to observe Heritage Day, such holiday shall replace the individual holiday.
Employees who are on permanent layoff or temporary layoff for a period of two (2) weeks or more shall not receive payment for any holidays occurring during the period of such layoff.
(d) For purposes of paragraph 7.01(b), the phrase "employees on the payroll” does not include employees on unpaid leave of absence or employees who are laid off for a period of two (2) weeks or more that includes the third Monday in February.
Employees shall not schedule a doctor, dentist or other appointment on the day immediately before or the day immediately after a holiday or holiday weekend. Exceptions may be made in cases of appointments with specialists or in cases of emergency.
7.02	Pay shall be calculated on the basis of eight (8) hours per day for the above-mentioned holidays for regular employees. Probationary employees shall be paid on the basis of the average earnings, exclusive of overtime, for the previous four (4) weeks immediately preceding the week in which a public holiday occurs. To qualify, for public holiday pay, employees shall be on the payroll in the week prior and in the payroll week in which such holiday occurs.
7.03	Statutory holidays shall be observed on days other than calendar date when so proclaimed
13
by proper Government authority or when agreed in writing between the Union Executive and the Company.
7.04	Any employee required to work and who agrees to work on any of the Statutory Holidays listed above shall, in addition to his/her regular wages, be paid for the number of hours worked on that day at one and one-half (I Vi) times his/her regular rate of pay. In the event of a Statutory Holiday coming on an employee’s regular day off, he/she shall receive another day in lieu thereof, such other day to be granted within two (2) weeks from the said Statutory Holiday.
7.05	In regards to birthday, an employee shall take the day of his/her birthday off or if his/her birthday falls on a Saturday, he/she shall take the Friday off in the preceding week or if his/her birthday falls on a Sunday, he/she shall take the Monday off in the succeeding week.
7.06	The Company agrees to pay an employee who would otherwise qualify for holiday pay under Article 7.01 but who is receiving benefits under Group Insurance the difference between Group Insurance and the employee’s regular rate of pay.
ARTICLE 8 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	Deductions shall not be made by the Company from the wages of:
(a)	The Union Negotiating Committee to a maximum of five (5) members in respect to time actually spent bargaining collectively with the Company;
(b)	The Union Grievance Committee to a maximum of three (3) members in respect to time actually spent in the settlement of disputes and grievances.
The Union shall request approval in advance for the time mentioned above.
8.02	The Union or any employee who has a complaint or grievance shall submit the same, in writing, within ten (10) working days from the time such grievance arose or became apparent. A copy of such complaint or grievance shall be forwarded to the Manager of the Department.
8.03	Should differences arise between the Union or the employees and the Company, there
shall be no strikes, slowdown, stoppage of work or suspension of work on the part of the Union or the employees or lockouts on the part of the Company on account thereof and such difference shall be settled by the following procedures:
(a)	The employee shall present any differences of grievances to his/her Shop Steward, in writing, without undue delay;
(b)
The Shop Steward shall present the grievance and discuss the matter with the
14
Manager of the area who shall give a decision within two (2) working days;
(c)	In the event that a conclusion is not reached, the Chief Steward shall immediately take the matter up with the Plant Superintendent who shall give a decision within two (2) working days;
(d)	In the event that no conclusion is reached, the Grievance Committee, not exceeding three (3) people, accompanied by a Representative of the Union, if they so desire, shall immediately take the matter up with the Plant Manager who shall give a written decision within three (3) working days.
.04	(a) Any dispute or grievance submitted under this Article that cannot be settled by
representatives of the Company and the Union shall be submitted to a Board of Arbitration at the request of either party.
(b)	The Board of Arbitration shall be composed of one Company representative, one Union representative and one person acceptable to both the Company and the Union, who shall act as Chairperson. If agreement cannot be reached within ten (1 O) days in respect of the appointment of the Chairperson of the Board of Arbitration, the Minister of Labour shall be asked to appoint a Chairperson.
(c)	When the Board of Arbitration has been formed in accordance with Article 8.04(b), it shall meet and hear the evidence of both sides and render a decision as soon as possible after it has completed its hearings and investigations.
(d)	The Board of Arbitration, in reaching its decision, shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement. It is understood that the Board of Arbitration is not vested with power to change, modify or alter this Agreement or any of its parts. The Board may, however, interpret the provisions of this Agreement. The majority decision of the Board shall be final and binding on both parties concerned.
(e)	It is agreed that each party shall pay the expenses of its Representative and shall equally share the expense of the Chairperson of the Board of Arbitration.
8.05	When a Grievance affecting the rate of pay of an employee is settled satisfactorily and wages of the employees are increased, any such increase shall be made retroactive to the date the employee was entitled to the increase.
8.06	If an employee is dismissed for any reason and feels that he/she has been unjustly dealt with, he/she shall, within five (5) working days from the receipt of such notice, notify the Shop Steward, who shall then notify the Company. The dismissal in question shall then constitute a Grievance and shall be dealt with as such. If, subsequently, he/she is reinstated, it shall be without loss of pay, in his/her former position.
15
In order that the Union can investigate problems and resolve them as quickly as possible, the Company agrees to provide the Union with a suitable location in the plant to hold meetings and provide a place to file material of interest to the Union. Prior to the investigation of any problem, Union Shop Stewards and/or Occupational Health and Safety Committee Members will give notification to their Department Supervisor and/or the Plant Superintendent that they will be absent from their work area.
The Company will provide the Union with a copy of any disciplinary action taken by the Company. Such copy will be delivered to the Union Office within twenty-four (24) hours following such action.
ARTICLE 9 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Any employee who finds it necessary to be absent from his/her duties must make written request to the Personnel Clerk using a Leave of Absence Form. No leave shall be taken unless the employee has received written permission by the Plant Superintendent confirming the starting and expiring dates of such leaves. The Company agrees to supply the Union with copies of all correspondence relating to leave of Absence.
An employee who wishes to obtain a leave of absence from work for purposes of a medical or dental appointment must make such application in writing to the Personnel Clerk. Employees shall use the Absenteeism Form and submit their notification at least three (3) days prior to the date of such appointment. Exceptions can be made for emergencies and unforeseen situations. Employees shall not schedule a doctor, dentist or other appointment on the day immediately before or the day immediately after a holiday or holiday weekend. Exceptions may be made in cases of appointments with specialists or in cases of emergency.
9.02	Should any employee find it necessary to be absent from his/her duties due to accident or illness, the Company will require a doctor’s certificate as proof of accident or illness after the third consecutive day of absence.
9.03	Employees, not to exceed seven (7) at a time with not more than three (3) from any Department and not more than two (2) from any Job Classification who are elected to do business for the Union, shall be granted necessary leaves with pay to attend to the business and upon return to service of the Company shall be placed in his/her previously held position without loss of seniority. In the event employees request leaves of absence to attend a Union Convention, the Company will be given one (1) week’s written notice. An employee shall receive the pay and benefits provided for in this Agreement when on such leave of absence for Union work or conventions. However, the Union shall reimburse the Employer for the cost of all pay and benefits paid during the period of absence.
9.04	Employees, after completing their probationary period, shall be granted a
9.01	(a)
(b)
8.07
8.08
16
maternity/parental leave of absence by the Company. The employee must make application for such leave at least four (4) weeks prior to the start of such leave, together with a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner certifying that she is pregnant and indicating the estimated date of confinement. Such leave will be in accordance with the Labour Standards Act of Saskatchewan. The employee shall give the Company a minimum of two (2) weeks’ notice in advance of the date she wishes to return to work and provide the Company with a doctor’s certificate certifying her to be medically fit to come back to work. Maintenance of benefits will be subject to the Labour Standards Act of Saskatchewan.
Any employee who has completed the probationary period shall be granted a maximum of five (5) consecutive days of bereavement leave, of which three (3) days shall be paid bereavement leave, upon the death of an immediate family member. Any employee who has not completed the probationary period shall be granted up to five (5) consecutive days of unpaid bereavement leave upon the death of an immediate family member.
For the purpose of this Article, the term "immediate family member” shall mean spouse, mother, father, sister, brother, daughter, son, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent, common-law spouse, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandchild, step-parents or step-child.
The Company will consider reasonable requests for leave of absence by the employee to attend the funeral of a friend or family member other than an immediate family member.
All requests for bereavement leave shall be in writing on a special bereavement leave request form supplied by the Company. The employees must provide all the information requested by the Company in order to qualify for such a leave. Employees may be required to provide a copy of the death certificate within ten (10) days of the funeral.
9.06	No employee shall be transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit without his/her consent, If an employee is transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit, he/she shall forfeit all seniority rights under the terms of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 10 - BULLETIN BOARD
10.01	The Company agrees to post and maintain a suitable bulletin board at a central place in the plant for the use of the Union but any notices placed thereon by the Union must first be approved by the Plant Superintendent.
ARTICLE 11 - UNIFORMS
11.01	(a) The Company shall supply adequate overalls, smocks, rubber gloves, rubber
9.05	(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
17
boots, aprons, hair nets and required head coverings where needed and all such overalls, smocks, rubber gloves, rubber boots, aprons, hair nets and required head coverings shall remain the property of the Company. The Company shall be responsible for repairing and laundering overalls, smocks, rubber gloves, rubber boots, aprons, hair nets and required head coverings supplied by him. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and, except with permission, shall not be removed from the Company’s premises. The first issue of new rubber boots will be charged out at cost and further issues at no cost on exchange.
(b)	The Company shall provide, at no cost to all full-time Truck Drivers, all appropriate uniforms which includes summer and winter apparel required by the Company to be worn, including a boot allowance for C.S.A, approved safety footwear not to exceed one hundred ($100.00) dollars per year. The Truck Drivers shall be responsible for cleaning such uniforms and shall wear clean uniforms at all times while on duty. All drivers must maintain a clean, professional appearance at all times while on duty.
11.02	Freezer and Live Receiving employees will be provided, ai no cost to the employees, appropriate clothing needed to perform their duties. The Company agrees to supply C.S.A. approved safety footwear to all Freezer employees at no cost to the employees. The Company agrees to red-circle all Freezer employees that are receiving a clothing allowance under the old Agreement provided they remain in that position.
11.03	(a) The Company agrees to supply C.S.A. approved safety footwear to all
Maintenance employees at no cost to the employees, it being understood that Maintenance includes Power Engineers and Electricians.
(b) In all other cases where employees do not wish to wear Company-supplied
footwear, upon rendering of sales receipt, employees shall be reimbursed the cost of purchasing their own Company-approved footwear. Such reimbursement shall be to the maximum amount that the Company would normally pay for Company-issued footwear.
11.04	Night Watchman, Delivery Truck Driver and Truck Drivers will be supplied with comfortable insulated suits and suitable gloves as needed, at no cost to the Drivers or Watchman.
11.05	The Company agrees to supply plant employees, at no cost to the employees, plant supplies that are needed by the employees to perform their duties.
1.06	The Company agrees to supply at no cost to the Maintenance employees, Engineers, Electricians and Truck Mechanics, where applicable, adequate tools to properly repair and maintain equipment in all areas of the plant.
18
11,07	All items mentioned above shall remain the property of the Company and shall not be taken off the plant premises without permission of the Company. In order to get replacement for such items, the employees must provide the original used item otherwise the replacement of such item will be at the employee’s cost.
ARTICLE 12 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
12.01	The Company shall have the exclusive right and power to manage the business and direct the working forces, including the right to hire, suspend, discipline for just cause, discharge for cause, lay off, promote, assign to jobs, transfer employees from department to department, to increase or decrease the working force, to determine the products to be handled and nothing in this Agreement shall be intended, or is to be construed in any way to interfere with, the recognized right of the Company to manage and control its business but it is agreed that nothing in this clause shall be used to discriminate against any employee or the Union and this clause shall not be used for the purpose of avoiding the effects of the other provisions of this Agreement. Prior to any disciplinary action including dismissal of an employee who has completed his/her probation, the Company shall notify the Chief Shop Steward or his/her designate.
ARTICLE 13 - MISCELLANEOUS
13.01	Any permanent employee wishing to leave the service of the Company shall give seven (7) days’ written notice and in the event of the Company wishing to lay off a permanent employee, the Company shall give him/her written notice or pay in lieu of notice in accordance with the Saskatchewan Labour Standards Act. On the first regularly scheduled payday following the employee’s last day of work, the employee shall receive all money due him/her,
13.02	This Agreement shall not take from the Company and/or the employee privileges they have hitherto enjoyed except such as may be specifically dealt with in this Agreement and, further, except such privileges as may be abused.
13.03	Employees summoned to Jury Duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for jury service or witness fees and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such days. This does not apply if the employee is excused from Jury Duty for the rest of that day or days and fails to report back to work or if Jury Duty occurs on the employee’s scheduled day off.
13.04	Any employee required to use his/her car for the Company’s business shall be paid twenty-four ($.24) cents per kilometer travelled.
13.05	When the Company makes a written request to an employee to take time off to write exams or take tests related to their work with the Company, such employees shall not suffer any loss of pay for time spent involved in said exams or tests.
19
It is agreed that all employees shall be allowed to purchase products from the Company for personal consumption by the employee’s family. Employees may purchase products from the Company only in the sizes and packages produced normally for customers.
The Company reserves the right to question excessive amounts ordered and to refuse sales where it appears that the use is not for personal consumption by the employee’s family.
13.07	Any and all letters of clarification reached between the Parties shall be signed and then
shall form an addendum to the Collective Agreement and shall form part of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 14 - PLANT EMPLOYEES
13.06 (a)
(b)
14.01	The Company shall supply all tools such as knives and scissors and maintain the same in good working condition.
14.02	The normal lunch period shall be one-half Q/i) hour to be granted as close to the middle of the shift as possible unless otherwise agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
14.03	The Company shall notify the employees of the starting time for the following week by posting a schedule on the notice board on the previous Thursday. There shall be a fifteen (15) minute leeway on the daily start time. An employee will normally be paid from the actual starting time. If, however, the actual starting time is more than fifteen (1 5) minutes later than the posted time, the employee will be paid from the posted time.
14.04	When required, employees shall be allowed five (5) minutes to wash their aprons.
14.05	During coffee breaks and lunch hour, the Company agrees to provide coffee and tea for employees at no cost to the employees. When overtime is scheduled and a rest period occurs, the Company will provide coffee and tea and a whole sandwich at no cost to the employee.
14.06 It is agreed between the parties that a system of rotation shall be implemented as follows: (a)
(b)
The system of rotation shall be agreed by the majority of the employees in the particular department that will be affected by the rotation;
The agreement of rotation must be in writing specifying the terms of the rotation and, further, all agreed upon rotation shall be made at coffee break or noon hour only or such other times as mutually agreed upon by the Union and Management;
(c)	An employee bidding or transferred to an area affected by rotation shall be given
20
a fair chance to train on the jobs affected by the rotation;
All rotation shall be evaluated after four (4) weeks. If the rotation is approved by the Union and the Management then the rotation shall become a condition of employment;
The job posting shall indicate that the position is a rotation area;
Any employee who is not able to become involved in the rotation or chooses not to be involved shall forfeit his/her bid job and become classified as a Floater. The vacant position shall then be posted and filled in accordance with the terms of the Agreement,
14.07	The Union recognizes that the Company must take year-end inventory and in order to insure the most viable cost efficient system of inventory to be taken, the Union therefore agrees that regular Freezer employees who are requested to count inventory shall work one (1) Saturday at appropriate overtime rates of pay.
14.08	In cases where Maintenance employees have more than one (1) Journeyman Certificate and the Company is utilizing all certifications of the employees, the Company shall pay an additional fifty ($.50) cents per hour for each additional Certification over and above the initial Journeyman Certificate.
ARTICLE 15 - WAGES. HOURS. ETC.
15.01	Attached to this Agreement, there will be an Appendix “A” covering the wages, hours, etc., of the employees included under the provisions of this Agreement.
Employees shall use the scan clocks provided by the Company to record their hours of work. Each employee will be paid according to their scheduled starting time and their punch out time. No employee shall work outside of normally scheduled hours without authorization from management of the Company.
Each employee shall be paid by noon every second Friday except where such Friday is a statutory holiday in which case payment shall be made by noon on the Thursday (the day prior).
Payment will be made by direct deposit to the employee’s bank account. Each employee shall maintain an account in a financial institution in which direct deposits can be made.
When the Payroll Department has been notified of an error, greater than $50.00, in an employee’s pay and such error has been approved by both the Department
15.02 (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(d)
(e) (0
21
Manager and Plant Superintendent, the money owed to the employee shall be paid
to the employee by the next working day. Errors under $50.00 will be adjusted on the next payroll.
15.03	Classification titles and rates of pay applicable thereto for any new classification or positions that may be established by the Company hereafter, shall be subject to negotiations and a supplementary Agreement shall be executed between the Company and the Union.
15.04	Employees who leave the service of the Company for purposes of educational upgrading for not more than one (1) year, when they return to the service of the Company, shall be given credit for previous experience with the Company for the purpose of determining their wage rate.
15.05	If an employee is transferred from a lower paying position to a higher paying position, he/she shall receive the wage rate applicable to the higher paying position when performing those duties.
If an employee in a higher paying position requests to be transferred to a lower paying position then he/she will be paid at the wage rate applicable to the lower paying position.
15.06	An employee will have the right to exercise his/her seniority as to whether he/she will be transferred or not. It is agreed that the most junior person in the plant must accept the transfer. It is also agreed that an employee's former position after he/she has been transferred shall not be filled with an employee with less seniority than the employee who was transferred.
15.07	Employees requested by the Company to be available and on standby on weekends, statutory holidays or whenever the plant is not in operation shall be paid standby pay of seventy ($70.00) dollars per day for each day they must be on standby.
ARTICLE 16 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
16.01	In order to investigate and prevent accidents and improve conditions of work, it is agreed that a Safety Committee composed of equal representation from the Company and the Union shall be established. Findings and recommendations of the Safety Committee shall be referred to the Company. Should the Company fail to act on the recommendations of the Committee, such recommendations shall be subject to negotiations between the Company and the Union. The Company and the employees will co-operate in the strict observance of all safety regulations at all times. They will make full use of all safety and accident prevention devices and equipment as provided and maintain safe working practices during their hours of employment within the plant. It is the responsibility of the
22
Company and employees to observe all safety provisions as approved by the Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
16.02	The Company agrees to pay an employee his/her regular rate of pay from the hour of accident to the end of the shift which is covered by Workers’ Compensation.
16.03	The parties agree that the Occupational Health Committee will direct their attention to looking into the need for suitable clothing for all employees working in areas in the plant where the temperature is below comfortable room temperature. It is agreed that if the Occupational Health Committee determines that warm clothing is needed for these employees then the Company will provide such suitable clothing at no cost to the employees.
16.04	It is agreed between the parties that all of the Company’s trucks shall be equipped with the following items as to assure the health and safety of the Truck Drivers:
(a)	First Aid Kit;
(b)	Survival Kit;
(c)	Flashlight;
(d)	Fire Extinguisher (mounted);
(e)	Flares;
(f)	Tire Jack.
16.05	Rehabilitation
An employee who suffers an injury or illness which is covered by Workers’ Compensation and/or Group Insurance and who, on the advice of his/her personal physician, is able to return to pre-injury employment on a trial basis shall have the right to do so subject to the following:
The employee shall return on a trial basis as instructed by his/her doctor or such other authority’s care he/she is under.
Such triai basis shall be subject to the terms of the Workers’ Compensation Board, if applicable, and/or the employee’s personal physician if Group Insurance is involved, or both, in the case of Workers’ Compensation.
The return to work shall be for the purpose of rehabilitation only and once the employee has completed the terms of the return to work, he/she shall return to full pre-injury employment conditions of the Collective Agreement.
Such trial period shall not result in the bumping of any employee from his/herjob.
Should the employee not be able to return to his/her pre-injury job classification
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
23
for the purpose of such rehabilitation then the Company agrees to find the employee a suitable position to qualify for the rehabilitation period. Following such period, the employee shall return to his/her former pre-injury job classification he/she held prior to injury or illness. Such positions created for the purpose of employee rehabilitation shall not be eligible for bidding and shall not be governed by the provisions of Article 5 (Seniority).
(f)	During such rehabilitation period, the Union agrees to co-operate with the Company insofar as certain terms of the Agreement may have to be waived during this rehabilitation period only,
(g)	The parties agree that if no suitable position is available at the time the rehabilitation program is to commence then the affected employee or employees shall remain on Workers’ Compensation or Group Insurance, etc. until such time as the parties can find a suitable position to accommodate the rehabilitation program.
ARTICLE 17 - PICKET LINES
17.01	An employee covered by this Agreement shall have the right to refuse to cross a picket line or to handle goods from an employer where a strike or lockout is in effect. Failure to cross such a picket line or handle goods from an employer where a strike or lockout is in effect by a member of this Union shall not be considered a violation of the Agreement nor shall it be grounds for disciplinary action.
ARTICLE 18 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
18,01	Where the Company seeks to introduce a technological change during the term of this Agreement that is likely to affect the terms and conditions of employment of more than eight (8) of the employees in the bargaining unit, the Company and the Union shall negotiate in good faith and in accordance with the procedures set out below with a view to concluding a Workplace Adjustment Plan relating to the terms and conditions or tenure of employment that are likely to be affected by the technological change. The following rules and procedures shall apply:
(a)	In this Article, the term “technological change” shall mean:
(j) the introduction by the Company into its work, undertaking or business of equipment or material of a different nature or kind than that previously utilized by it in the operation of the work, undertaking or business;
(jj) the change in the manner in which the Company carries on the work,
undertaking or business that is directly related to the introduction of that equipment or material, or
24
(jjj) the removal or relocation by the Company of any part of its work
undertaking or business but does not include any layoff due to shortage of work or reduction or loss of work directly or indirectly attributable, in whole or in part, to economic or market conditions or the seasonal nature of the work.
(b)	The Company shall, at least 90 days prior to the introduction of such a
technological change, provide the Union with a written notice setting out:
(i)	the nature of the technological change;
(ji) the date upon which the Company proposes to effect the technological change;
the estimated number and type of employees likely to be affected by the technological change; and
(iv)
the effect which the technological change is likely to have on the terms and conditions of employment of those employees affected.
(c)	The Union may, no later than 30 days from date of receipt of the Notice from the Company, deliver to the Company a written notice stating that it wishes to enter into negotiations for a Workplace Adjustment Plan to address the terms and conditions or tenure of employment that are likely to be affected by the technological change.
(d)	Within fifteen (15) days after the Union’s notice is received by the Company, the parties shall commence collective bargaining negotiations with a view to concluding the Workplace Adjustment Plan. The parties shall thereafter meet as required in order to permit the conclusion of a Workplace Adjustment Plan prior to the date of implementation of the technological change.
(e)	A Workplace Adjustment Plan concluded between the Company and the Union shall form part of this Collective Agreement.
(f)	The Union and the Company are obliged to bargain in good faith with a view to concluding a Workplace Adjustment Plan.
(g)	In circumstances where the Company fails to provide a written notice of a technological change required by paragraph (b), the Union shall not interfere with or take steps to prevent or reverse the implementation of the change but shall be restricted to a claim for damages.
18.02	An employee who is rendered redundant or displaced from his/her job as a result of technological change shall be given an opportunity, with a reasonable amount of
25
qualifying period not exceeding a four (4) week period, to fill any vacancy or displace an employee with less seniority. If, during the four (4) week period, the Company, in consultation with the Union, decides that the employee cannot satisfactorily perform the newjob, he/she shall still have the right to exercise his/her seniority.
18.03	Where new or greater skills are required than are already possessed by affected employees under the present methods of operation, such employees shall, at the expense of the Company, be given a period of time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, during which they may perfect or acquire the skills necessitated by the new method of operation. There shall be no reduction in wage or salary rates during the training period of any such employee and no reduction in pay upon being reclassified in the new position.
18.04	Should the introduction of new methods of operation create a need for the perfection or acquisition of skills requiring a training period longer than three (3) months, the additional training time shall be a subject for discussion between the Company and the Union.
18.05	No additional employees shall be hired by the Company until employees affected by the change or employees on layoff, have been notified of the proposed technological or other change and allowed a reasonable training period to acquire the necessary knowledge or skills to retain their employment.
ARTICLE 19 - TRUCK DRIVERS. LIVE HAUL. MEAT HAUL. RELIEF DRIVERS
19.01	The classification of Truck Driver (Fresh and Frozen) will be treated separately from Truck Driver (Live Haul) and the classified employees shall be scheduled separately from one another. However, they will be scheduled by seniority in their respective classification and shall not cross over to either Truck Driver classification. All Drivers holding a Permanent Driver bid in either classification will be able to bid first by seniority for a Permanent Bid in either classification. If there is no successful bid then it will be bid according to 19.04(b).
19.02	Fresh/Frozen Truck Drivers
(a)	The Company shall structure the routes so as to satisfy the minimum weekly
guarantee of hours each week in accordance with Appendix A(l) and (2). This does not preclude an employee from working more than the minimum guarantee of hours of work if available.
(b)	(i)
All full-time Bid Classified Fresh/Frozen Truck Drivers shall bid internally, within the Fresh/Frozen Driver Classification only, using their plant-wide seniority, to the particular route he/she wishes to drive.
CO
(a)	Drivers shall have the option of working in the plant or the Round House to make up the full number of guaranteed hours lost due to
26
trip cancellation or shortage of work. In the case of a trip cancellation or shortage of work from a Driver’s regular route, the Driver affected can exercise the option of working in the Plant or the Round House only to make up the lost hours. In order for the Driver to be eligible for his/her guarantee of hours, he/she shall notify his Department Supervisor within one-half (14) hour of the notification by the Company that his/her trip has been cancelled and that he/she intends to come to work in the Plant and/or the Round House. Should a Driver refuse the opportunity to work in the Plant or the Round House, the Driver will have waived his/her rights to the guarantee of hours.
(b)	In cases where a Paid Holiday falls in the workweek and it
becomes a short week then the Driver who owns the block of work shall have first selection to all trips within his/her block of work.
All routes shall be reviewed every four (4) months and should any full-time Driver wish to re-bid his/her route, all routes below him/her in seniority standing shall then be re-bid, however, this is an option of the Drivers and need not be exercised and the status quo maintained.
Should routes have less than forty (40) hours of work in any week, the incumbent full-time Drivers shall have the first right, according to their seniority, to extra trips scheduled that week in order to make up the full forty (40) hours of work for that week. Drivers may only select extra trips on days when they are not otherwise scheduled to work.
(e) Should additional work become available, the Company will call to work, by
seniority within the Fresh/Frozen Driver classification, a full-time Driver who is not working and who wishes to take the trip.
Note: “Additional Work” shall mean any work made available after all Permanent and Relief Drivers have been utilized, or such other work that is not regularly scheduled work for full-time Drivers.
Should the Company need to reduce its compliment of routes then the affected full-time Driver shall have the option of re-bidding on a new posted route or accept being laid off in accordance with the terms of the Agreement and all remaining routes shall be re-bid in accordance with Section (b).
(g)
Should the Company need to alter the routes in any way then all routes shall be re-bid in accordance with Section (b).
19,03	Live Haul Drivers
27
(a)	Prior to Friday in each week, the Company shall provide a live-haul schedule to the Dispatcher setting out the hours available for the following week. The Dispatcher shall then assign hours available in accordance with paragraph (b) below.
(b)	(i) All full-time Bid Classified Live Haul Truck Drivers shall bid internally
within the Live Haul Truck Driver Classification only. Each Driver may, according to plant-wide seniority, select a block of runs that he/she wishes to drive for that week. The Driver must pick five (5) days to a maximum of fifty (50) hours for the week. For the purpose of this clause, a day is defined as being from 6:00 p.m, to 6:00 p.m. on a 24-hour period.
(ii)	Once a senior Driver has selected a weekly block of runs, the next senior Driver must select. When shortage of work is caused by trip cancellation then the Driver(s) by seniority of the affected Grower(s) route will have the opportunity to displace the most junior Driver for the same day as the trip cancellation provided that it does not affect the next scheduled trip or rest period.
(iii)	Should routes have less than forty (40) hours of work in any week, the incumbent full-time Drivers shall have the first right, according to their seniority, to extra trips scheduled that week in order to make up the full forty (40) hours of work for that week. Drivers may only select extra trips on days when they are not otherwise scheduled to work.
(iv)	Drivers shall have the option of working in the Plant or the Round House to make up the full number of guaranteed hours lost due to trip cancellation or shortage of work. In the case of a trip cancellation or shortage of work from the Driver’s regular route, the Driver affected can exercise the option of working in the Plant or the Round House only to make up the lost hours. In order for the Driver to be eligible for his/her guarantee of hours, he/she shall notify his/her Department Supervisor within one-half (lA) hour of the notification by the Company that his/her trip has been cancelled and that he/she intends to come to work in the Plant or the Round House. Should a Driver refuse the opportunity to work in the Plant or the Round House, the Driver will have waived his/her rights to the guarantee of hours.
Should additional work become available, the Company will call to work, by seniority within the Live Haul Driver classification, a full-time Driver who is not working and who wishes to take the trip.
NOTE: “Additional work” shall mean any work made available after all
28
Permanent and Relief Drivers have been utilized or such other work that is not regularly scheduled work for full-time Drivers.
(c)	Every Live Haul Driver is responsible for supervising the loading of his/her truck at the grower's farm and must record all information required by the Company.
19,04	Relief Driver
(a)	(0
No person who holds a Bid Relief Driver position or wishes to be available to work as a Relief Driver shall work in a supervisory or leadhand capacity or as part of a night sanitation crew or night shipping department.
(ii)	Bid Relief Truck Drivers shall only work in a relief capacity to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week (fifty (50) hours if relieving in Live Haul) including hours worked in the Plant. Once a Bid Relief Driver has completed the designated hours of work in a week, he/she is not entitled, without permission of the Company, to work any further hours that week in the Plant, it being understood that Relief Drivers shall only cover for vacation, leave of absence, illness or injury or when there is no full-time Driver available to work and after all full-time Drivers have selected the block of trips or runs on a weekly basis.
(iii)	Where additional Truck Driving work becomes available and all Bid Relief Truck Drivers have completed at least forty (40) hours of work for the week pursuant to 18.04(a)(ii), the additional work shall be made available to full-time Drivers in the same classification, by seniority. If no full-time Drivers in the same classification are available to perform the work then the work shall be offered to Bid Relief Truck Drivers by seniority. If no Bid Relief Driver is available to perform the work then such work shall be offered to qualified employees on a plant-wide seniority basis.
Should a full-time Driver position become available, the Relief Driver may bid according to the following rules:
Relief Truck Drivers with the greatest seniority shall have the first opportunity to bid for the position.
If no Relief Truck Driver bids then it is open to bidding by other qualified employees on plant-wide seniority.
(iii)
If a Relief Driver should obtain a full-time position as a Fresh/Frozen Driver, all the routes shall be bid in accordance with 19.02(b).
29
(c)	Relief Drivers who, on the basis of seniority, relieve a Fresh/Frozen full-time
Driver shall relieve in the block of runs for the full-time Driver he/she is relieving for and all other Drivers’ bid block of runs shall not be affected.
19,05 General
1(a)	The Company has agreed that as long as they have qualified Drivers and
sufficient equipment, no outside agency shall be used to perform Truck Driving work.
(b)	Double tripping will be allowed as long as it complies with the Federal and/or Provincial Highway Traffic Board Regulations with respect to the logging of hours and rest periods.
(c)	The Company will allow Truck Drivers seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50)per shift for meals for shifts which exceed ten (10) hours. The Company agrees to pay all money to the employee(s) on his/her first pay period immediately following such occurrence.
(d)	All special trips outside of the block runs shall be awarded to Truck Drivers regardless of classification based on plant-wide seniority.
(e)	All Drivers must have at least eight (8) hours off between all trips and at least forty-eight (48) continuous hours off per week.
(f)	Except as provided in Article 5.04(c), no Truck Drivers shall hold any relief bids.
ARTICLE 20 - NO DISCRIMINATION
20.01	No employee shall be discriminated against in any manner because of Union activities or because of race, colour, age, sex, creed, marital status, political beliefs or favouritism.
ARTICLE 21 - NO CONTRACTING OUT
21.01	In order to provide job security for the members of the bargaining unit, the Company
agrees that all work or services performed by the employees as of the date of signing of this Agreement shall not be sub-contracted, transferred, leased, assigned or conveyed in whole or in part, to any other plant, person, company or non-unit employee unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Union and the Company.
ARTICLE 22 - DURATION
22,01	This Agreement shall be effective from the first day of February, 2004 and shall remain in force until January 31, 2007, and thereafter from year to year but either party may, not less than thirty (30) days or more than sixty (60) days before the expiry date of this
30
Agreement give notice in writing to either party to terminate this Agreement or negotiate a revision thereto.
SIGNED this 10th day of February, 2005
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION, LOCAL S-955
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF: LILYDALE CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
Sherrie Snook
Sharon Larson
“no longer employed”
Shawn Anderson
Bob Smith
Rick Johannesson
Daniel Gargol
Shannon Spafford
Jodie Bachynski
Garry Burkart, Representative
31
APPENDIX ’’A”
1.	Normal hours of work for all employees shall be eight (8) hours per day not exceeding forty (40) hours, five (5) days per week and providing for two (2) consecutive days of rest.
2.	The Company agrees to guarantee to permanent employees a minimum of sixty (60) hours of work in each payroll period or pay in lieu of work unless otherwise agreed between the Union and the Company between the months of December through May
except Fresh/Frozen Truck Drivers which shall be guaranteed sixty (60) hours of work January through December inclusive. During the months of June through to November, the guarantee shall be seventy (70) hours of work or pay in lieu of work for all employees except Fresh/Frozen Truck Drivers. An employee who is absent from work for personal reasons on any day shall have his/her guarantee for the pay period concerned reduced by the number of work hours missed by such absence. In cases of layoffs, recalls, hiring and dismissals without notice, it is agreed that the guarantee will be pro-rated on a daily basis.
Employees shall be allowed an eighteen (18) minute rest period midway through the 1st half of their shift and an eighteen (18) minute rest period midway through the 2nd half of their shift and the end of their shift providing there is work available. Employees wishing to leave the plant during the rest periods shall obtain permission from the Department Manager to do so.
The Union and the Company agree that the normal workday shift shall be from 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. and 3:45 p.m. to 12:15 a.m. (2nd shift) with a one-half (A) hour unpaid lunch period. It is agreed that certain positions are or may be required outside the hours stated above. The starting and ending times of a normal workday shift, and of the other shifts, may be changed by the Company from time to time. The Company will provide a schedule of positions and hours of work to the Union. If it becomes necessary to change the hours of work mentioned above for bona fide business reasons, the Company will consult extensively with the Union before implementing any such change.
Subject to subparagraphs (b) and (c) below, overtime at one and one-half (1 Vi) times the regular rate shall be paid for all hours worked after eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours, five (5) days per week.
Where an employee works in excess of eight (8) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period by working two (2) regular shifts separated by at least eight (8) hours of rest, the first eight (8) hours of the second shift shall not constitute overtime but shall be paid at the regular rate.
Pursuant to Section 9(2) of the Saskatchewan Labour Standards Act, the Union agrees, for the purposes of sub-paragraph 4(b) only, to allow employees to work in excess of eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period without paying
3'	(a)
(b)
4.	(a)
(b)
(c)
32
the employees overtime pay. The Union further agrees, for the purposes of subparagraph 4(b) only, to allow for employees to average the number of hours worked over a one (1) week period not to exceed eight (8) hours in any one (1) day or forty (40) hours in any week without the applicable overtime pay being paid for the time worked in excess of those times.
(d)	The Company shall pay to all employees who work beyond ten (10) hours, if required to work by the Company, a seven dollar and fifty cent ($7.50) meal allowance. The Company agrees to pay all money to the employee(s) on his/her first pay period immediately following such occurrence.
5.	When employees are required to work their regularly assigned day of rest, they shall be paid at time and one-half (1 ’A) of their regular rate of pay for the hours worked.
6.	When overtime of more than twenty (20) minutes is scheduled to be worked consecutively with the regular hours of work, the employee shall be entitled to eighteen (18) minutes' paid rest period before commencing overtime work.
7.	All overtime shall be voluntary and shall be performed only after authorization by the Company. All overtime shall be assigned, by seniority, to those employees who normally perform the work to be done on the shift they are working. Should such employee refuse overtime then such overtime work shall be offered to employees by seniority, ability being sufficient, on a plant-wide basis. However, this does not preclude the Company from calling in or scheduling an employee(s) to work overtime on a plant-wide basis regardless of shifts on the basis of seniority ability being sufficient to perform the work that is to be done. The Union agrees to co-operate in providing overtime work in cases of emergency. For the purpose of this clause, emergency shall be defined as any sudden or unusual occurrence or condition that could not, by the exercise of reasonable judgment, have been foreseen by the Company.
8.	The Company agrees to pay a shift premium of forty ($.40) cents per hour for all regular hours of work performed by employees who are scheduled to commence their shift outside the hours of 5:00 a.m, to 12:00 noon. This shift premium will also be paid for all regular hours of work performed on Saturday and Sunday. This shift premium shall not be considered as a part of the employee’s basic rate of pay.
9.	Where employees are required to work rotating shifts, the Company agrees to pay a shift premium of forty ($.40) cents per hour for all hours worked.
10.	Employees, except Engineers on standby, who report for work shall be guaranteed four (4) hours’ work or pay in lieu thereof.
11.	All hours worked over twelve (12) hours in a day shall be paid for at the rate of double (2) time.
33
APPENDIX "B" CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATES
I. Journeyman status/ Millwright
Feb 1/04
$(0.35)
|$	22.25
Maintenance Department Power Engineers
Plus 4th Class 3rd Class 2nd Class
Plant Maintenance (Mechanic)
II. Leadhand
$	17.87
$	16.29
Fresh, Frozen and Live Haul Truck Drivers and Night Watchman
Start
After 75 days' worked
After 12 months'service	15.94
IV. Quality Assurance Inspectors System
V.	Blast Freezer Start
After 75 days'worked After 12 months'service
VI.	Sanitation Department
Start
After 75 days' worked After 12 months' worked
Jan. 30/05
$(0.29)
$	16.17
$	11.34
$	13.30
$	15.18
Jan. 29/06
$(0.30)
$	22.84
$	11.49
$	14.01
$	16.53
,$	16.47
34
Feb 1/04
VII. Group A
Offal Room Attendant Plucker Operator, Freezer,
Receiving Room, Graders/
Presentation Detectors,
Saw Operator,
Computerway Scale Operator ______________
Start
After 75 days' worked
After 12 days' worked	14.74
VIII. Group B
All those not otherwise listed
in Group A	___________
Start
After 75 days' worked
After 12 months'worked	14.53
Jan. 30/05	Jan. 29/06
$	11.49
$	13.30
$	15.12
$	11.19
$	13.00
$	14.82
NOTE #1: The term "After 75 days' worked" means after the employee has completed 75 days actually at work.
The term "After 12 months" service" means 365 days following the date on which employment commenced.
Rate increases to take effect on the first day immediately following the date stipulated.
An employee must have successfully completed his/her probationary period before he is eligible to receive the next rate of pay.
NOTE #2: All Maintenance Department employees are referred to in Appendix "B"(l) will first and foremost perform their primary bid job classification duties and will be expected to perform general maintenance duties when required by the Maintenance Manager.
NOTE #3: Retroactive Pay: The Company agrees to pay all employees the general wage increase of thirty-five ($.35) cents per hour for all hours worked and/or paid retroactive to including February 1,2004. Such pay shall be paid out within twenty-one (21) days of the date of ratification by way of separate pay deposit less lawful deductions.
35
APPENDIX “C”
HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS
(A)	GROUP INSURANCE
1.	The Company agrees that the present Group Insurance Plan shall remain in effect and form part of the Collective Agreement and shall provide for the following benefits set out in (A) through (D) below. The terms and conditions in this Agreement will not be changed without mutual agreement and the Company will provide the Union with a complete copy of the Group Insurance Plan text. This will not preclude the Company to seek or change alternate carriers at any time.
2.	New employees shall be entitled to full benefits following the successful completion of the probationary period (seventy-five (75) days’ worked) for Group Insurance Benefits i.e. Life Insurance, AD & D, Weekly Indemnity, LTD, Prescription Drug Plan and Vision Care Plan. Effective February 1, 2001, the Company agrees to pay seventy-five (75%) percent of the costs of the Group Insurance premiums, employees to pay twenty-five (25%) percent.
3.	The Company shall supply employees with a copy of the Health Care Conversion Option upon retirement which will result in the termination of their current Group Insurance Benefits under the Collective Agreement it being clearly understood that the employee pays the full cost of such benefits.
(a)	Life Insurance
Life Insurance amount of benefit coverage:
Effective February 1,2001	.	$40,000.00
Waiver of Premiums
Should you become totally disabled for more than six (6) months prior to age 65, the amount of your Life Insurance will continue without payments of premiums until age 65 or recovery and as long as this policy remains in force providing satisfactory proof of total disability is submitted to the insurance company within twelve (12) months from the date of disability.
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment
Accidental Death and Dismemberment - benefit amount tied to life insurance benefit.
36 The amount of insurance below will be payable:	
□	to your beneficiary (in addition to the basic group life insurance amount) if you die by accidental means; □	to you for loss of sight and/or hearing;	
□ to you for accidental dismemberment.	
If death, dismemberment, loss of sight or hearing	is caused by an accident
prior to age 65 and occurs within 365 days of the accident, payment will be made as follows:	
Loss of:	Amount:
Total paralysis of both lower limbs,	200% of your basic
total paralysis of one side of body	group life insurance
or total paralysis of all four limbs.	benefit.
Life or both hands or both feet	100% of your basic
or sight of both eyes or loss of one	group life insurance
hand and one foot or loss of sight of one eye and either one hand or one foot or loss of use of both hands or loss of use of both arms or loss of use of both legs or loss of use of one hand or arm and one leg.	benefit.
Loss of one hand or loss of one foot	50% of your basic
or loss of one arm or loss of one leg	group life insurance
or loss of sight of one eye or loss of use of one hand or loss of use of one arm or loss of use of one leg.	benefit.
Loss of thumb and index finger of the	33 1/3% of your basic
same hand, a loss of speech or loss of	group life insurance
hearing in both ears.	benefit.
Repatriation Benefit	
For loss of life outside your province of	$10,000 maximum
residence, the Co-operators will pay the cost of the preparation and shipment of the body back to your province of residence.	benefit.
37
If one accident results in more than one of the losses above, payment will not exceed 100% of the basic group life insurance benefit, except if loss is quadriplegia, paraplegia or hemiplegia.
Rehabilitation Benefit
If you sustain an injury which results in a loss payable under this provision and the injury requires that you undergo special training to be qualified to engage in a special occupation that you would not normally have engaged in except for such injury, The Co-operators will pay for such training. However, no payment will be made for room, board or other ordinary living, traveling or clothing expenses.
Exclusions:
No payment of Accidental Death and Dismemberment benefits will be made for any loss caused by, resulting from or related to any of the following:
O	suicide or self-inflicted injury, whether sane or insane;
□	insurrection or war (whether war be declared or not), or any act incident to either or participation in any riot;
□	active full-time service in the armed forces of any country;
□	travel or flight in any aircraft, or descent from such aircraft, if the insured individual is a pilot or member of the crew of the aircraft or if such flight is made for purposes of instruction, training or testing;
□	committing, attempting or provoking an assault or criminal offense.
Waiver of premiums for AD&D Insurance
Should you become totally disabled for more than six (6) months prior to age 65, the amount of your accidental death and dismemberment coverage will continue without payment of premiums until age 65 or recovery, as long as this policy remains in force providing satisfactory proof of total
$10,000 maximum benefit limited to within three years the date of accident.
38
disability is submitted to the insurance company within twelve (12) months from the date of disability.
Termination Age
Your accidental death and dismemberment benefit terminates at age 65,
(c)	Dependents’ Insurance Benefit
Effective February 1, 2001	- Spouse-	$10,000,00
’	Child -	$5,000.00 (15 days of
age and over)
This benefit provides life insurance coverage for your spouse and dependent children.
Waiver of premiums for Dependents Insurance
Should you become totally disabled for more than six (6) months prior to age 65, the amount of your dependents' insurance will continue without payment of premiums until age 65 or recovery and as long as this policy remains in force providing satisfactory proof of total disability is submitted to the insurance company within twelve (12) months from the date of disability.
Termination Age
Your dependents' insurance terminates when you reach age 65.
(d)	Weekly Indemnity
Weekly Indemnity - 66 2/3% of your weekly salary payable to a maximum weekly benefit equivalent to the maximum weekly benefit payable by the Employment Insurance Commission for 26 weeks. Benefits begin on the 1st day if disability is due to injury and the 4th day if disability is due to sickness. If hospitalized, benefits will begin on the 1st day.
Benefits will not be paid beyond:
O	the 26th week from the date of disability; or
□	the date you cease to be totally disabled; or O the date of your 65th birthday; or
□	retirement or the date you withdraw or elect to receive pension funds; or
□	the date you engage in any work or occupation; or
(i)
(ii)
39
□ the date you fail to furnish satisfactory evidence of total
disability or refuse to submit to a medical examination by a physician chosen by the Insurance Company;
whichever first occurs.
(iii)	List of Exclusions
No Weekly Indemnity benefit will be payable for:
(1)	any period of disability by The Workers’ Compensation Act or any similar legislation.
Any employee will be eligible to apply for Group Insurance benefits while the employee’s claim is under appeal to the Saskatchewan Workers’ Compensation Board. If the appeal is successful, the employee shall be solely responsible for repayment of any benefits claimed under the Group Insurance Plan.
(2)	any disability resulting from or caused by:
□	intentionally self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane;
□	insurrection, war or hostilities of any kind, whether declared or not;
□	riot or civil commotion, regardless of whether you were participating;
□	injury occurring while committing or attempting to commit a criminal offense;
□	medical or surgical care which is cosmetic in nature or medical care or surgery that is not medically necessary. However, periods of disability due to the donation of an organ or tissue will be covered. The Company will amend the Group Contract to provide coverage for tubal ligation and vasectomy. All other cosmetic surgery will be excluded from the contract.
□ use of drugs or alcohol unless you are being
actively supervised by and receiving continuous
40
treatment from a rehabilitation centre or an institution provincially recognized for that treatment.
(3)	Any disability if:
□	as a result of injury or sickness for which a third party is liable, except as provided for in the Third Party Liability section;
□	you are not under the continuous care and treatment of a physician or specialist who is certified by the Saskatchewan College of Physicians and Surgeons or during the first 30 days under the care of a licensed chiropractor;
ID	you are imprisoned;
□ you are on maternity leave, parental leave or any other leave of absence.
(4)	No further benefits will be payable from the date you refuse to participate in a rehabilitation program which is considered appropriate by the Insurance Company.
(iv)	Submitting a Claim
The time limit within which a Weekly Indemnity claim must be made is 90 days from the date the Insurance Company is liable.
(v)	Termination Age
Your Weekly Indemnity benefit terminates at age 65.
Long Term Disability Plan (LTD)
Effective February 1, 2004, the Employer will provide an LTD Plan based on seventy (70%) percent of earnings to a maximum of one thousand five hundred ($1,500.00) dollars per month. Effective January 29, 2005, two thousand ($2,000.00) dollars per month. The principal terms of this LTD plan are set out below. All other terms of the Group Insurance Plan in effect prior to this Agreement shall remain in effect and unchanged.
(i)	Benefits will commence on the latter of:
O
41
the 183rd day of continuous/consecutive disability (the “elimination period”); or
□	the day following the end of a period during which the employee is receiving Weekly Indemnity Benefits;
□	Disabled employees will be eligible for benefits for a two-year period, from the end of the elimination period, if the employee is unable to perform his or her usual and customary duties as an employee of the Company. Thereafter, benefits will continue, to a maximum of five (5) years from the end of the elimination period, only if the employee is unable to perform the duties of any occupation. Effective January 29, 2005, benefits will continue to a maximum of age 65.
In no case shall a benefit be paid beyond:
□	the five (5) year period or the date of the employee's 65 birthday, whichever first occurs (effective January 29, 2005, the benefits will not be paid beyond the employee's 65th birthday); or
□	the date of the employee’s death; or
O the date the employee is no longer totally disabled; or
□	the employee’s retirement or the date the employee withdraws or elects to receive pension funds; or
□	the date the employee engages in any work or occupation other than rehabilitative employment; or
U the date the employee fails to furnish satisfactory evidence of total disability or refuses to submit to a medical examination by a physician chosen by the Insurance Company; or
O the date the employee refuses to participate in a
rehabilitation program considered appropriate by the Insurance Company;
whichever first occurs. Effective January 29, 2005, these
42
improved LTD Benefits shall be applicable to all employees currently on LTD. The employees shall pay one hundred (1 00%) percent of the costs of this increased benefit from the five (5) year maximum and age sixty-five (65).
(iii) The Company has distributed a detailed booklet of information on the LTD Plan prepared by the LTD insurer. The Union and the Company agree that the terms of the LTD Plan shall determine the entitlement and benefits of employees under the LTD Policy.
Prescription Drug Plan and Vision Care
(i)	The Company shall provide a Prescription Drug Plan and Vision Care benefit at twenty-five (25%) percent cost to employees with the following benefits. Such Plan shall form part of the Collective Agreement.
(ii)	Schedule of Benefits
Vision Care - $250,00 eyeglass benefit every 24 months;
Prescription Drugs - Reimbursement funding under the Saskatchewan	Drug Formulary	basis:
Deductible:	Single	-	$50.00
Family	-	$100.00
Prescription	Drugs	-	100%
(reimbursement)
(iii)	The Company has distributed a detailed description of both the Vision and the Prescription Drug Plans. The Union and the Company agree that the terms of the Vision and the Prescription
Drug Plans shall determine the entitlement and benefits of employees under these policies.
(iv)	Eligible Employees
All employees are eligible if actively working on the effective date of this Plan. All new employees are eligible after successfully completing their probationary period (75 days’ worked).
(v)	Eligible Dependents
Dependents are defined as the employee’s spouse (as described
43
below), and unmarried, unemployed dependent children including natural, adopted or step-children.
The term “spouse” is defined as the person who is legally married to the employee, or, although not legally married to the employee, has continuously cohabited with the employee for not less than one (1) full year having been represented as husband and wife (common-law). Unless the insured employee has requested coverage for a common-law spouse in writing to the insurer, the person legally married to the insured employee shall be considered to be the spouse.
Dependent children are eligible if they are less than 21 years of age or, if 21 years of age but less than 25 years of age, they must be attending an accredited educational institution, college or university on a full-time basis and must be fully dependent on the employee for support. Children of the employee’s common-law spouse are eligible for coverage provided they are living with the employee.
Unmarried, unemployed children over 21 years of age shall quality if they are dependent upon the insured employee by reason of a mental or physical disability and have been continuously so disabled while attending an accredited educational institution, college or university on a full-time basis prior to the age of 25 and have been continuously so disabled since that time shall also qualify as a dependent.
(B)	TEAMSTERS/RWDSU GENERAL WORKERS PENSION PLAN
1.	Membership
All existing employees, including employees in receipt of Long Term Disability benefits or Workers’ Compensation benefits, shall automatically become covered under the Teamsters/RWDSU General Workers Pension Plan and Trust Fund (the “Trust Fund”).
All future employees shall automatically become covered under the Trust Fund on the first day of the month following the date on which the
employee has completed one (1) year of employment.
2.	For the duration of the current Collective Agreement between the Union and the Company and any renewals or extensions thereof, the Company agrees to continue payments to the Pension Plan as herein set forth to provide benefits for employees of the Company. Such contributions shall be as follows:
(0
00
44
(j) For each active employee working in job classifications covered by the Collective Agreement, effective February 1, 2004, five (5%) percent of their gross earnings; effective January 29, 2005, increase to five and one-quarter (5.25%) percent; effective January 30, 2006, increase to five and one-half (5.5%) percent.
(ii) Each employee shall contribute through payroll deductions a contribution as follows:
Effective February 1, 2004, five (5.0%) percent of their gross earnings,
3,	For the purposes of (i) and (ii) above, earnings shall be gross earnings received by an employee from the Company and from a benefit plan provided by the government or any insurance program. Contributions from the participating employee shall be made by payroll deduction.
(j) It is understood that contributions shall be payable for eligible employees in respect to the gross earnings of employees on the Date of Ratification whether said employees are permanent, temporary or seasonal or full-time or part-time employees provided the employee has worked for the Company for a one (1) year period. It is further understood that each day or hour paid for, including days or hours of paid vacation, paid holidays or other days or hours for which pay is received by the employee in accordance with the Collective Agreement shall be counted as days or hours for which contributions are payable.
4.	Contributions along with a list of the employees for whom they have been made (showing employee and Company amounts separately) shall be provided by the Company to the Trust Company, Plan Administrator or other financial institution designated by the Trustees to receive these and shall do so no later than twenty-one (21) days after the end of the Company's normal 4-week, 5-week or monthly accounting periods. This listing shall be prepared in a form compatible with the Company’s system and shall also show the amount of voluntary contributions, if any.
5.	As the provisions of the Trust Fund allow for employees to make voluntary contributions, the Company shall co-operate by taking payroll deductions and, subject to such time limits as may be set by the Company, in changing the amount deducted from time to time.
6
The Company further agrees to submit a completed change in status form with respect to each member whose status under the Plan changes on or about the date of such change in status and also agrees to submit to the said Administrator,
45
within sixty (60) days following the end of such plan year, a listing of all persons who were members of the Plan during such plan year showing, for each member, his/her gross earnings received during the plan year.
7.	In the event the Company fails to forward the prescribed contributions within the above-stated time limitation, the Company shall be liable to pay interest on such contributions equal to 4,0% multiplied by the number of completed plus partial months from the date such contributions were due to the date they were paid.
8.	Such contributions shall be paid into the Teamsters/RWDSU General Workers Pension Plan Trust Fund (hereinafter called the “Trust Fund”). The terms of the Pension Plan established for the employees shall be determined by the Trustees of that Trust Fund and the administration of the Plan shall be carried out by the Trustees of that Trust Fund in accordance with the Trust Agreement governing the Fund.
9.	Long Term Disability Contributions
While an employee who is a member of the Pension Plan is entitled to receive and does receive income replacement benefits by the insurance carrier of the Company under the Company’s Long Term Disability Plan, the Company shall contribute an amount effective February 1, 2004 equal to ten (10%) percent of such member's earnings at time of disability. In no case shall this benefit be paid beyond the period specified in Appendix C- 3(e)(ii).
Structure of Trust
The Company shall become an Employer in the Trust Fund and the Union shall become a participating Union in the Trust Fund. It is understood that the provisions of the Trust Agreement are as follows:
The Trust Agreement is entered into by the participating unions (“the Union”) and the Trustees;
00
The Board of Trustees consists of at least three (3) Trustees who are appointed by the Union;
The Trustees have complete authority and are responsible for the operation of the Trust Fund and the selection of all persons, firms or organizations who shall serve the Trustees.
11.	The Trust Fund does not require any participating Company or the Union to
guarantee the benefits or assure the solvency of the Fund and it is understood and agreed that the Company has no obligation to finance the benefits promised under the Trust Fund beyond making contributions pursuant to its Collective Agreement
46
with the Union. It is the responsibility of the Trustees to ensure that the Trust Fund satisfies the minimum funding and solvency requirements of the Pension Benefits Act of Saskatchewan. The Trust Fund provides for the reduction of benefits for the purpose of meeting the prescribed tests for solvency of the Trust Fund subject to the approval of the reduction by the Superintendent of Pensions.
The Trust Fund will be operated so that it is registered under the Income Tax Act and any applicable Pension Benefits Act.
Inter-Plan Transfer Agreements may be effected with the Company and any other Board of Trustees or plan sponsor to and from which employees represented by the Union may transfer. The provisions of any such agreement between the Pension Plan of the Company and the Trust Fund shall be mutually acceptable to the Company, the Union and the Board of Trustees.
All employees represented by the Union shall be informed of the provisions of the Trust Fund by the Union in accordance with the Province of Saskatchewan Pension Benefits Act.
12,	Administration
(i)
(ii)
(iv)
The Trust Fund shall be administered by such organization, persons or entity as the Trustees shall decide. The Company agrees that it shall provide such details and information about employees covered under the Trust Fund as are needed to create Fund records and administer the Trust Fund and shall assist the Trustees as requested to ensure the proper and efficient operation of the Trust Fund.
The Company agrees to be bound by all the terms, conditions and provisions of the Teamsters/RWDSU General Workers Pension Plan and Trust Fund and for such purpose to execute such documents as may be required to constitute the Company a party of the Second Part (Employer) to the Agreement and Declaration of Trust under which the said Pension Trust is established.
13,	Company/Union Liability
It is understood and agreed that neither the Company nor the Union have any obligation to finance the benefits promised under the Trust Fund beyond making contributions pursuant to its Collective Agreement with the Union. In the event that any unfunded liability or solvency deficiency should arise, it is agreed that benefits will be reduced for the purpose of meeting the required test for solvency of the Trust Fund, subject to the approval of the reduction by the Superintendent of Pensions.
0)
00
47
(C)	DENTAL PLAN
Effective January 30, 2005, the Company agrees to contribute towards the cost of the RWDSU Union Dental Plan based on a payment of thirty-one ($.3 1) cents per hour for each straight time hour worked. Effective January 29, 2006, thirty-two ($.32) cents.
Such premiums shall be paid from the first day of hire for all new employees.
(D)	PAID PERSONAL TIME OFF
Employees shall be allowed to take single vacation days with pay as personal time off, subject to two (2) weeks’ notice and approval by the Department Manager and the Plant Manager. Such time off will be on a first-come first-served basis except in cases where employees hand in their requests on the same day then the senior employees shall have priority. The two (2) week notice period shall be waived in cases of an emergency which is defined as any sudden or unusual occurrence that could not, by the exercise of reasonable judgment, have been foreseen by the employee. The employee will, at the time of his/her two (2) week notice, advise the Company that they want their vacation pay paid out or left in their accumulation bank.
Note: Vacation Pay shall be paid pursuant to Article 6.05(a) of the Collective Agreement.
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
BETWEEN:	Lilydale Co-operative Limited
AND:	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local S-955
Re:	Absenteeism
It is agreed that the following policy shall be in effect during the term of this Collective Agreement.
1.	Subject to paragraph 2. below, employees who are absent from work for more than
twelve (12) separate periods of one (1) day or more during any twelve (12) month period, regardless of the reason for such absence except for absences under Workers’ Compensation, Group Insurance and with an approved leave of absence, shall be subject to the following discipline:
first occurrence - five (5) day suspension;
(b) second occurrence within two (2) years but not less than six (6) months after the first occurrence - dismissal.
2.	Where, in the opinion of a medical doctor who is approved by the Company, the employee is suffering from an illness or injury such that it is unreasonable to expect that the employee will be able to avoid chronic absenteeism, the Company will make all reasonable efforts to accommodate the employee in the workplace before resorting to the measures set out in paragraph 1. above.
3.	Where an employee suffers from illness or injury as set out in paragraph 2. above, the onus is on the employee to obtain the medical opinion and to notify the Company at the earliest opportunity that he or she may be chronically absent from work due to such condition.
4.	Employees who will be unavoidably absent from work for reasons of sickness, accident, etc., should notify the Personnel Office of this fact as early as possible. This information should normally be given to the Company prior to the start of the employee’s shift. If this should prove impossible then not later than one (1) hour of their scheduled start time.
49
5.	For the purpose of this Letter of Understanding, a day shall mean a period of more than three (3) continuous hours.
SIGNED this 10th day of February, 2005,
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:	SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT	LILYDALE CO-OPERATIVE
STORE UNION, LOCAL S-955	LIMITED
Sherrie Snook
Bob Smith
Sharon Larson	Rick Johannesson
“no longer employed”_______________________ __________________________
Shawn Anderson	Daniel Gargol
Shannon Spafford
Jodie Bachynski
Garry Burkart, Representative
50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2 BETWEEN:	Lilydale Co-operative Limited
AND:	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local S-955
Re:	Claims Manager
This Letter sets forth the agreement reached between the Company and the Union relating to the role of the Claims Manager. This agreement and understanding shall apply during the term of the Collective Agreement between the parties.
1.	The Claims Manager shall maintain health records of employees in a filing system separate from the personnel records.
2.	The Claims Manager’s function and responsibility is to ensure the health and well-being of the employee in a professional and confidential manner and to act as a liaison person between Group Insurance, Workers’ Compensation Board and Medical Professionals, etc. and the employee by ensuring the proper completion of all applicable forms.
3.	The Claims Manager is not to be an adjudicator for Workers’ Compensation and Group Insurance. However, the Claims Manager may appeal a claim if he/she feels that it is necessary to do so.
SIGNED this 10th day of February, 2005.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:	SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT	LILYDALE CO-OPERATIVE
STORE UNION, LOCAL S-955	LIMITED
Sherrie Snook
Bob Smith
Sharon Larson	Rick Johannesson
“no longer employed”_______________________ __________________________
Shawn Anderson	Daniel Gargol
Shannon Spafford
Jodie Bachynski
Garry Burkart, Representative
51
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
BETWEEN:	Lilydale Co-operative Limited
AND:	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local S-955
Re:	Student Employment Saturdav/Sundav Shifts
1.	The Parties agree that the provisions of Article 5.11 shall apply to any student who is hired or re-hired for Saturday/Sunday work after August 31, 2001,
2.	The Parties agree that any former student who was terminated or on an approved leave of absence prior to August 31, 2001, shall have first opportunity to be re-hired for such work.
SIGNED this 10th day of February, 2005,
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:	SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT	LILYDALE CO-OPERATIVE
STORE UNION, LOCAL S-955	LIMITED
Sherrie Snook
Bob Smith
Sharon Larson	Rick Johannesson
“no longer employed”_______________________ __________________________
Shawn Anderson	Daniel Gargol
Shannon Spafford
Jodie Bachynski
Garry Burkart, Representative