BETWEEN:
PLAINS"POULSTRY L^tt^TO, a Corporation with ita Head Office at the Town of ^^yard, in the Province of Saskatchewan. hereinafter called the "Employer:
Ol' 'l'HB Ii'IllST PART
AKD:
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPAR'IMEN'r Stoll UNION, WCAL 955 hereinafter called the "Union"
OF THE	PART
AGREEMENT
Expires: January 31, 1989
^ 25 1987
{0 J 7/o ;b
fimSlfi	EflSfi
I.	Gl -	PURPOSE	1
2.01	-	TERMS	1
3.01	-	BARGAINING AGENCY	1
4.01	-	CHECK-OFF	2
5•Pl -	SENIORITY	2
6.01	-	VACATIONS	5
7.kll -	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	7
8.01	-	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	8
9.01	-	LE1\VE OF ABSENCE	10
10•HI -	BULLETIN BOARD	H
II.	01 -	UNIFORMS	12
12.01	-	MISCELLANEOUS	13
13.01	-	PLANT EMPLOYEES	15
14.'3i -	WAGES, HOURS, ETC.	16
15.01	-	SAFETY AND HEALTH	IS
16.01	-	EMPLOYEE BENEFITS	19
11.01	-	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE	19
18.01	-	DURATION	20
APPENDIX "A" - HOURS OF WORK	21
APPENDIX "B" - CLASSIFICATION MlD WAGE RATES	23
LETTER OF	UNDERSTANDING	-	TEMPORARY POSITIONS	25
LETTER OF	UNDERSTANDING	-	WORK SCHEDULES MAINTENANCE	26
LETTER OF	UNDERSTANDING	-	DISCIPLINARY PROGRAM	27
LETTER OF	UNDERSTANDING	-	COVERALLS	28
LETTER OF	UNDERSTANDING	-	PART-TIME SHIFT WORKERS	29
.. 1 -
THIS AGREEl^MENT made and entered into this /o'*day of PIS • A.D. 1987.
BETWEEN:	PLAINS POULTRY LIMITED, a Corporation with its Head Office
at the Town of Wynyard, in the Province of Saskatchewan hereinafter called the "Employer"
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION, LOCAL 955
hereinafter- called the "Union"
OF THE SECOim PART
THE PARTIES HERETO MUTUALLY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE l : EPREOBB
1.01	It is the intention of this Agreement to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Employer and its employees and to provide an amicable means of settling differences which possibly arise, and as well to set forth conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto; and to promote the mutual interests of the Employer and it's employees; and it is recognized by this Agreement t o be the responsibility of the Union to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions
ARTICLE 1 : TERMS
2.01	In the Agreement, wherever the words "he", "his" or "him" appear it shall be construed as meaning any employee, male or female, wherever the words "employee" or "employees" appear, it shall mean any person covered by this Agreement.
2.02	In this Agreement wherever the word "permanent" appears it shall be construed as meaning any employee male or female wwho has completed his or her probationary period as defined in Article 5.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE lz BABS&IfilMG AGENCY
3.	• 01	The Emplover recognizee the Union as the exclusive bargaining
agency with respect to wages, hours and all other conditions of employment for the employees employed by the Employer in the Town of Wynyard excluding the General Manager, Assistant General Manager, Plant Manager, Personal Manager, Plant Superintendent, two (2) Assistant Plant Managers, Office Manager, Assistant office Manager, supplies Manager, Production Manager, Director of Research, two (2) Research Technicians, five (5) Office Staff, Sales Manager and a Field Service Person.
2 -
3.02	Eve y employee who is now, or hereafter becomes a member of
the Union, shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment, and every now member whose emploYI!lent commences hereafter shall, on hiring, apply. for and maintain membership in the Union as,a condition of hi a employment.
3.03	Persons whose jobs are not in the bargaining unit will not work on any. jobs for which rates are established by this Agreement except for the purpose of instruction,, experimentation or in extreme emergencies.
3.04	Severance EA?
An employee shall be entitled to severance pay in the event of termination of employment with the Company, resulting from job abolishment, or termination after twelve (12) months' layoff provided that the Company di,d not have work available at the same rate of pay, except: for just: cause or voluntary severance. Eligible employees w i 11 be allowed one (1) week's pay after one (1) full year of continuous service and two (2) weeks’ pay after three (3) years of continuous service with the Company,
ARTICLE ! : CHECK-OFF
4.01
%
0 w,fitten nion , the
request of any employee, and upon request of.. the Empaoyer sha I! deduct: each month the union Dues,
Initiation Fees and Assessments for that month of such employee. The amount collected shall be remitted in one payment immediately following the second pay period in tne month to the person designated by the "Union", together with a list of the employees from whom the deductions were made, the names of the employees hired and the names of those employees whose	,
employment has te^unated. The "Employer " snail'at all times be advised of the name and address of the individual to whan the said dues are to be remitted.
ARTICLE 5 : SENIORITY
5.01	New employees shall be on probation for a period of sixty (60)
working days during which time they may be laid off without reference to seniority and the employer shall be under no obligation to rehire such employee. seniority shall be the total number of days or part days worked since employment,commenced and. shall be compiled every four (4) months to January 31st. Where reference to part days is made, a part day shall be equal to a day
Employees shall only lose seniority in the event:
(a)	he is discharged for cause and is not re-instated;
(b)	voluntarily terminatess
(c)	is laid off for a period of longer than twelve (12) months.
- 3
employees would only maintain but would not continue to accumulate seniority as follows:
(a)	'
(b)
(c)
d)
maternity leave;
temporary promotions outside the bargaining unit for periods of up to six (6) months;
Layoff up to and including twelve (12) months:
An ^employee's seniority shall continue to accumulate when he is an Worker's Compensation or absent from work due to illness of accident. Such illness or accident may be substantiated by a doctor's certificate or other records, or due to lack of work when not formally laid off, It is agreed that an employee who is on worker's Compensation or is absent due to sickness, sha 11 not accumulate seniority during periods he would normally have been laid <of. However, had such an employee normally been granted part-time work, then he shall receive seniority credit for such days as if he were working. The employer and the Union shall agree on such total days of credit,
Personal leaves of absence as outlined in Article 9 of this Agreement.
5.0.2(a)	In all layoffs, recalls after layoffs, vacancies, and
promotions, ability being sufficient, seniority shall govern. An emplovee has the right to bump a junior employee, ability being sufficient for a shortage of work on a day to day basis: provided it is being done prior to the last coffee break in the day. should an employee elect not to bump a junior employee prior to the last coffee break in the day, then after the said coffee break an employee will work at any job assigned by management, or at his option, g0 home for the remainder of that shift, in which case such employee or employees shall wave his rights to their guarantee of hours.
5.02(b) When a short kill is scheduled which causes a transfer of employees from another area of the plant; to the packaging department in order to make up the guarantee of hours when the parties agree that employees shall indicate their willingness to transfer by placing their name on a Department Transfer List posted by the company on a day to day basic as required by the Company, The Company shall then select the appropriate number of employees as needed baaed on their seniority from the list. Should an employee not wish to place his name on the list, then such employee or employees shall waive their right to their guarantee of hours. All employees shall make their preferece known no later than 10 :30 a.m. each day of the posting and all affected employees shall be notified by 12:00 noon of each day,
- 4 -
5.03
S.04
5.05
S ,06
5.07
However, if the Company requires an employee or employees to leave the plant and go borne, then the guarantee of hours shall apply, NOTE:	list to be posted by the kill
The Company shall ^post and maintain an accurate seniority list to include name, address, seniority, job classification and wage rate. The list shall be posted in a conspicuous place accessible to all. employees every four (4) months.
A copy of the list shall be provided to the Chief Shop Steward of the Union or his disignee who shall bring to the attention o£ the employer: any errors or omissions and same shall be corrected.
Notice of vacancy, promotions and new positions shall be posted on the bulletin board in the receiving coffee room,' the true king coffee room, and the plant coffee room and employees snall be allowed three (3) working days from the date of posting in which to make applications for such positions. The names of a II applicants shall be posted on the.bulletin board as well as the name of the successful applicant which shall be selected and posted within one (1) day of the closing data of the posting,
kl employee transferred or promoted to a new position, .. shall be allowed a reasonable qualifying period not exceeding a four (4) wm.iek. period, If, during the ifour (4) week poriod, the Employer or the employee, after consultation with the Union, decides he is unsuited to the new job and cannot adapt'himself to the new work, he' shall revert to his former position.
The Company and the Union- recognize the need for relief positions within the plant, and they shall be posted as outlined in clauses 5.02 and 5.04. The posting shall indicate that tho position- is a relief position.
employee bidding on a relief position, shall be paid the rate or their regular bid job, but the rate of pap for the relief position shall be paid as outlined in Article 14*05.
Every employee shall be responsible to see that the Employer has nis correct address at: all times and the Employer sh a II not be under any obligation to trace such employee if he cannot be located at the address on file in the Employer's office.
5.08
5.09
5.10
S.11
amsids
6.01
6.02
Should an employee be unable to return to work on five (5) days' notice, such employee shall forfeit his seniority rights and any other rights under this Agreement, except in case of sickness to the employee or his family, weather conditions, or other good ani! sufficient reason agreed upon by the Employer and the Union. In case of sickness, a doctor's certificate or other satisfactory proof be required,
All calls to work, recalls and layoffs shall be made in writing or by telephone and an indication of the notification shall be forwarded to the Chief Shop Steward of the Union.
When an employee is recalled from layoff, he shall be entitled to return to his regular bid job when the position becomes availableand shall receive his former rate of pay that he was receiving prior to Layoff and all other employees affected shall return to their former positions.
Employees classed as students shall not be allowed to bid' on permanent positions, however, they shall be allowed to bid on temporary positions that are posted during the months of and terminate August 31st of each calendar year. The Company shall have the right to use such employees as floaters when and where required. Such student; employees shall only use their overall plant wide seniority to bump a junior employee when they cease to be a student and wish to became a permanent full-time employee of the company.
VACATIONS
Every employee shall be entitled, after each year of'his employment with the Employer to an annual vacation of three
(3)	weeks.
Any employee who has five (5) or more consecutive years of employment shall be entitled to four (4).. weeks' annual vacation,
6.03
Any employee who has twelve (12) or more years of service, shall be entitled to five (5) weeks' annual vacation,
- 6
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07
6.08
Any employee who has eighteen (18) ok more years of service, shall be entitled to (6) weeks’ annual vacation. Effective February 1, 1988,	the Agreement to provde for six
(6) weeks' vacation with pay after seventeen ^17) years of service.
Where an employee is entitled to an annual vacation of three
(3)	weeks, he shall be paid three fifty-seconds (3/52nds) of his total earnings during the year immediately preceding the date on which he became entitled to anannuafvacation, and where the employee is entitled to an annual vacation of four
(4)	weeks, he shall be paid one thirteenth (l/13th) of his earnings during the year immediately preceding the date on which he became entitled to the annual vacation; and where an employee is entitled to five (5) weeks' annual vacation he shall be paid five fifty-seconds (5/S2nds) of his earnings. during the year immediately preceding the date on which he became entitled to the annual vacation; and where an employee is entitled to six (6) weeks' annual vacation, he shall be paid six fifty-seconds (6/52nds) of his earnings during the' year immediately preceding the date on which he became entitled to the annual vacation. Vacation pay shall be paid during the period of fourteen (14) days immediately preceding the commencement of the vacation.
If the employment of an employee is terminated, the Employer shall gay him, in addition to all other amounts due him,
3/52nds of his total earnings if he is untitled to three
(3)	weeks’ vacation, or l/l3th if he is entitled to four
(4) weeks, vacation, or 5/52nc1s if he is entitled to five.
(5) weeks' vacation, or 3/26ths if he is entitled to six
(6)	weeks' vacations, as the case may be, for his period of employment with the Employer* but if the employee nas been permitted to take an annual vacation at any time during his period of employment, he shall be paid, at the rate applicable, on his total earnings after the date on which he became entitled to the last annual vacation which he was permitted to take.
That every employee shall have until the end of March in each calendar year to make his or her preference for vacation. Thereafter, the Company shall schedule any employee who has not made his preference known ok has not made prior arrangements concerning his vacation with tho personnel manager. The Company then agrees that the vacation list shall be posted no later than April 16; indicating every employee's chosen vacation dates.
An employee entitled to three (3) weeks' vacation or more shall be entitied to carry over any part of or all of their vacation credits which shall be taken before the end of February each year
- 7
6.09	If any Statutory Holiday, hereinafter enumerated, occurs during
the period o£ any annual vacation which an employee has been permitted to take, the period of such annual vacation shall be increased by one (2) day.
arnsLE 1 =. mgpipRY holidays
7.01	Employees shall receive a day off without loss of pay on the
following public holidays!
NEW ^YEAR'S DAY, GOOD FRIDAY, VICTORIA DAY, DOM INION DAY, LABOUR DAY, THANKSGIVING DAY, REMEMBRANCE DAY,	DAY,
BOXING DAY, HERITAGE DAY, SASKATCHEWAN DAY, BIRTHDAY and any other holidays proclaimed by Dominion, Provincial or Civic Authority.
7.02	Fay shall be calculated on the basis of eight (8) hour6 per
day for the above-mentioned holidays for regular employees; Probationary employees shall be paid on the basis of the average earnings, exclusive of overtime, €or the previous four (4) weeks immediately preceding the week in which a public holiday occurs. To qualify, for public holiday pay, employees shall be on the payroll in the week prior and 1 n the payroll week in which such holiday occurs.
7.03	Statutory holidays shall be observed on days other than
calendar date when so proclaimed by proper Government authority or when agreed in writing between the Union Executive and the Employer.
7.04	Any employee required to work on any of the Statutory Holidays
listed above shall, in addition to bis regular wages, be paid for the number of.hours worked on that day at one and one-half (l 1/2) times his regular rate of ^^. In the event of a Statutory Holiday coming on an employee's regular day off, he shall receive another day in lieu thereof, such other day to be granted within two (2) weeks from the said statutory Haliday.
7.05	In regards to bithday, an Employee shall take the day of his
birthday off or if his birthday falls on a Saturday, he shall take the Friday off in the preceding week or i f his birthday falls on a Sunday, he shall take the Monday off in the succeeding week.
- 8 -
ARTICLE .a fiRIEyAUCE jEROCEPCRB
8.01	Deductions shall not be made by the Employer from wages of the shop stewards and from wages of no t more than three (3) members of the Negotiating Committee in respect to time actually spent negotiating for the settlement af disputes, grievances and the Collective Bargaining Agre^^nt.
8.02	The Union or any employee who haB a complaint or grievaoe shall submit: the same,- in writing, within ten (10) working days from the time such grievance arose or ^^me apparent. A copy of such complaint or grievance shall be forwarded to the Personnel Manager.
S»03	should differences arise between the Union or the Employees
and the Employer, there shall be no strikes, slowdown, stoppage of work or suspension of work on the part of the union or the employees, or lockouts on the part of the Employer on account thereof, and such difference shall be settled by the following proCedurcsi
(a)	The employee shall present any differences of griavatioes to his Shop steward, in writing, without undue delay;
(b)	The Grievance committee, not exceeding two (2) people, shall present the Grievance and discuss the matter with the Personnel Manager, who shall give a decision within ono (I) working day;
(.0) In the event that a conclusion is not reached, the Grievance Committee, not exceeding throe (3) people, shall immediately take the matter up with tnc Plant Manager or Plant Superintendent who aliall give a decision within two (2) working days,
(d) In the event that no conclusion is reached, the Grievance Committee not exceeding three (3) people, accompanied by a Representative of the Union./f they so desire, shall immediately take the matter up with the General Manager who shall give a written decision within three (3) working days.
8.04
(a)
Any dispute or grievance submitted under this Article that cannot be settled by representatives of the Company and the Union shall be submitted to a Boar6 of Arbitration at the request of either parity.
\D
- 9 -
8.05
8.06
8.07
(b} The Board of Arbitration shall be composed of one Company Representative, one Union representative and one person acceptable to both the Company and the Union, who shall act as Chairman. If agreement cannot be reached within ten (10) days in respect of the appointment of the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration, the Minister of Labour shall be asked to appoint a Chai^^.
(c)	"When the Board of Arbitration has been formed in accord-
ance with with Article, itshall meet and hear the evidence of both sides and render a decision within fourteen (14) days after it has completed its hearings and investigations.
(d} The Board of Arbitration, in reaching its decision,
should be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
It is understood that the Board of Arbitration is not vested with power to change, modify, or alter this Agreement oi: any of its ^^ts. The Board may, however, interpret the provisions of this Agreement. The majority decision of the Board shall be final and binding on both parties concerned.
(e) It is agreed that each party shall. pay the expenses of its Representative and shall equally share the expense of the Chairman ofthe Board of Arbitration'
When a Grievance affecting rate of pay of an employee is settled satisfactorily and wages of the employee are increased, any such increase shall be made retroactive to tho date the employee was entitled to the increase.
If an employee is dismissed for any reason, and fee ls that he nas been unjustly dealt with, he shall, within five (5) working days from the receipt of such notice, notify the Shop Steward, who shall tnen notiify the employer. The dismissal in question shall then constitute a Grievance and shall be dealt with as such. If, subsequently, he is reinstated, it shall be without loss of pay, in his former position,
In order that the Union can investigate problems and resolve them as quickly as possible, the Employer agrees to provide the Union with a suitable location in the plant to hold meetings and provide a place to file material ,of interest to the Union,
- 10 -
8.08	The Chief Shop Steward or his alternate shall be provided
by the Employer with copies of any disciplinary action taken by tne Employer within twenty-four (24) hours following such action,
A&EI.CLE i = USM& Qf ABSENCE
9.01	Any employee who finds it necessary to be absent from his
duties must	written request and obtain permission
from the Personnel Manager in sufficient time to provide a suitable replacement. All Leaves of Absence shall be confirmed in writing showing the starting and expiring dates of such leaves. The Company agrees to supply the Union with copies of all correspondence relating to Leave of Absence,
9.02	Should any employee find it necessary to be absent from
his duties due to accident or illness the employer may require a doctor's certificate as proof of accident or illness after the third consecutive day of absence.
9.03	Employees (not to exceed seven (7) at: a time with not
more than three (3) from any department and not mote than two (2) from any job classification) who are elected to do business for the Union shall be granted necessary leaves without pay to attend to the business and upon return to service of the Employer shall be placed in his previously. held position without loss of seniority. In the event employees request leave of absence to attend a Union Convention, the Employer will. be given one (I) week's written notice.
9.04	Female employees after completing their probationary period
shall be granted a maternity leave of absence by the Company The employee must make application €or such leave at least four (4) weeks prior to the start of such leave, together with a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner certifying that she is pregnant and indicating the estimated date of confinement. Such leave w i 11 be for a period of eleven (11) weeks prior to confinement or the period from the date of confinement mentioned on the certificate and the actual date and ten (10) weeks following the date of confinement. The employee shall give the Company a minimum of two (2) weeks' notice in advance of the date she wishes to return to work and provide the Company with a doctor's certificate certifying her to be medically fit to come back to work. Seniority and benefits will not accumulate or be
- ll
paid during a maternity leave but the employee's seniority and benefits held before such leave shall be reinstated upon her return to work,
9.05	Special leave of Absence with pay shall be granted for two
(2) days in case of death in the employee's immediate family, Immediate family of the employee shall moan, wife, husband, mother, father, sister, brother, daughter, son, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents, common-law husband, comm.on-law wife, son-in-law, daughter-in-law arid grandchildren, Three (3) days with pay shall be granted outside a 15-mile radius of the Town of Wynyard.
9.06	The Company recognizes that there are a number of employees
working for the company who also have farm-related duties.
The Company, therefore, agrees that employees affected shall
have the right to take such leave ao follows:
(a)	The employee must indicate in writing when he schedules his vacation that such vacation shall be for the purpose of either seeding or harvesting crops,
(b)	The Company shall be flexible in the scheduling the weeks the employee wishes off. But it is understood' once the employee has started his scheduled week or weeks, he is locked into that week forthe duration of the time.
(c)	For circumstances beyond the control of the employee (weather), the Company shall extend the vacation into a Leave of Absence without pay at the request of the employee.
(d)	If an employee wishes an extension of his vacation or wants to reschedule his vacation, he shall give the Company one (1) working day's notice.
(e)	Any employee requesting leave under this clause for farming purposes must be a legitimate farmer and may be requested to prove ownership farm land or legal use of s^ame
arncra .li = Bamm eomu
10.01	The Employer agrees to post and maintain a suitable bulletin board at a cenfral place in the plant; for the use of the Union, but any notices placed theron by the Union must first be approved by the Personnel Manager or the Plant Manager,
- 12
4-0.02
arncra
+i . 01
+1.02
11.03
11.04
11.05
The employer agrees to post and maintain a suitable bulletin board in each dressing room in the plant for the use of the Union.
ll. = HBIFQBHfi
The Employer shall supply adequate overalls, smocks, rubber gloves, rubber boots, aprons, hairnets and required head coverings 'Where needed . and a11‘such overalls, smocks, rubber gloves, rubber boots, aprons, hairnets and required head coverings shall remain tho property the Employer.
The Employer shall be responsible for repairing and laundering Overalls, smocks, rubber gloves, rubber boots, aprons, hairnets and required head coverings supplied by him. Such clothing remains the property of the Employer and except with permission, shall not be removed from the ^^loyer's premises. The first issue of new rubber boots will. be charged out at cost and further issues at no cost on exchange.
Regular freezer employees shall receive thirty cents ($.30) per hour extra for all time worked in the freezer, as a clothing allowance. Occasional freezer employees may use clothing supplied by the Employer and shall receive no clothing allowance. Regular freezer employees could be defined as those spending ten (10) hours or more per week. in the freezer. The clothing allowance will be added to the freezer employee's regular rate of pay for purposes of calculating his overtime rate.
In order to prevent injury, maintenance employees shall be supplied with safety boots and hard hats at no cost to the employee.
Night Watchman, Delivery Truck Driver, and Truck Drivers will be supplied with comfortable insulated suits and suitable gloves as needed, at no cost to the drivers, or Watchman.
Insofar as the employer has agreed to supply employees, at no cost to the empl oyees, cutting knives and steel mesh gloves for use in various areas of the plant, any employee who is going to be absent from work for any reason for a period longer than 3 days shall be responsible for the return of such items to a designated management person for the use of other employees, except where mutual arrangements have been otherwise made by the employee and management.
13 -
mas
12.01
12.02
12.03
12.04
12.05
12.06
ll =.
The Employer shall have the exclusive right arid power to manage the business and direct the working forces; including the right to hire, suspend, discipline Ear just cause, discharge for cause, fay off, promote, assign to jobs, transfer employees from department to department, to increase or decrease the working force, to determine the products to be handled, and nothing in this Agreement shall be intended, or is to be construed in any way to interfere with the recognized right of the Employer to manage and control its business; but it is agreed that nothing in this clause shall be used to discriminate against any employee or the Union, and this clause shall not be used for the purpose of avoiding the effects of the other provisions of this agreement, Prior to any disciplinary action including dismissal of an employee who has completed his probation, the Employer shall notify the Chief Shop Steward or his designate.
Any permanent employee wishing to leave the service of the Employer shall give seven (7) days' written notice, and in the event of the Employer wishing to lay off a permanent employee, he shall give him seven (7) days’ written notice;, On the expiration of seven (7) Bays, the employee shall. receive all money due him. In lieu of seven (7) days' notice by the Employer, the employee shall receive one (1) week's pay.
Employees shall be allowed a fifteen (15) minute rest period each morning and a fifteen (15) minute rest period each afternoon providing there ere one and one-half (11/2) hours of work in the afternoon. Employees wishing to leave the plant during the rest: periods shall obtain permission to do so.
This Agreement shall not take from the Employer and/or tbe employee privileges they have hitherto enjoyed, except such as may be specifically dealt with in this Agreement, and further, except such privileges as may be abused.
no employee shall be discriminated against in any manner because of Union activities or because of race, colour, age, sex, creed, religion, marital status, political beliefs or favourtism.
Women must be pa id the: oame re.te of wages as men if they are doing comparable work.
14
12.07 Employees summoned to Jury Duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for jury service or witness fees and the aimunt they would have earned had they worked on such days.
This does not apply if the employee is excused from Jury Duty for the rest of that day or days and fail s to report back to work, or if Jury Duty occurs on the employee's scheduled day off,
J.4'! • tHl	Any employee required to use his car for the ^^loyer' s busi-
ness shall be paid twenty-five (25) cents per mile travelled.
12.09	Employees required to take time off to write exams or take testis rel a tea to their work at Plains Poultry Limited shall not suffer any loss of pay fur time spent involved in said exams ox tests,
l2.l0	In order to provide job security for the membersoftho
bargaining unit, the Employer agrees that: all work or services performed by the employees as of the date of signing of this" Agreement shall not be sub-contracted, transferred, leased, assigned or conveyed in whole or in part, to any other plant, person, company, or non-unit employee. In regards to live ..haul, the Company and the Union agree to review it February 1, 1989.
12.11	As a result of an 'agreement between the parties in negotiations, it is agreed that: the Truck Drivers shall supervise the loading of their trucks on all their hauls. The Employer agrees to meet with the drivers and specify in writing where supervision is required and where it is not required. where supervising of a load is required, then the affected grower shall be required to initi a 1 a proper Load sheet.
12.12	It is agreed that all employees shall be allowed to purchase
products from the Company on the following basis. The.Company reserves the right to question excessive amounts ordered.
(a)	Fresh Products (excluding deboned meat) - 2.26 kilograms (5 lbs) minimum order;
(b)	K-Cut - one (l} bag minimum orders
(c)	Frozen chicken - minimum case lot;
(d)	Turkey and Turkey Roast - may be purchased one (1) at a time as fallows: 5-7 kilogram (10-12 lbs) hens (utility) and (A):
(e)	over 9 kilograms (20-22 lbs) Toms (utility) and (A).
- 15 -
Orders may be placed on Tuesday in the week of payday and they will be prepared on Wednesday and picked up on Thursday.
The foregoing clause shall be practiced as a set policy for purchasing product from the Company. If at anytime a problem develops, the Company and the Union shall meet to discuss and try to resolve it.
mmiE = jumi wswxebs.
13.01	The Employer shall supply all tools such as knives and scissors, and maintain the same in good working condition.
13.02	The normal lunch period shall be one (1) hour to be granted as close to twelve noon as possible unless otherwise agreed upon between the Employes and the' Union.
13.03	The Employer shall notify the employees of the starting time far the following day by posting the same on the notice board, andde^l^lgs{|&grting for work at the time posted sha II be
13.04	When required, employees shall he allowed five (5) minutes to wash their aprons.
13,05	The Company agrees to supply a 11 maintenance employees, engineers and truck mechanics where applicable with adequate tools to proper-1 y repair and maintain equipment in all areas of the Company.,
13.06	Du ring coffee breaks and lunch hour, the Employer agrees to provide coffee and tea for employees at no cost to- tile employees. When overtime is scheduled an a a rest: period occurs,the employer will provide coffee and tea and a whole sandwich at no cost to the employee .
13.07	It is agreed between the parties that a system or rotation shall be implemented as follows:
(a)	The system of rotation shall be agreed by the majority of the employees in the particular department that will be affected by the rotat i o n ;
- 16 -
(b)' The agreement of rotation must be in writing specifying the terms of the rotation and further all agreed upon rotation shall be made at coffee break or noon hour only or such other times as mutually agreed upon the Union and Management;
(c)	AA employee bidding or transferred to an area affected by rotation shall be given a fair chance to train on the jobs affected by the rotation:
(d)	All rotation shall be evaluated after: four (4) weeks. If the rotation is approved by the Union and the Management, then the rotation shall become a condition of employment;
(e)	The job posting shall .indicate that the position is a rotation area,
13.08	The Union recognizes that the Company must take year end
inventory and in order to insure the most viable coat efficient system of inventory to be taken the Union therefore agrees that regular freezer employees who are requested to count inventory shall work'one (1) Saturday which is not a Statutory holiday immediately preceeding December 31st or succeeding December 31st of each calendar year at appropriate overtime rates of ^^;.
amCLE 1.4. : MGZS-m. HOim*.EEC*
14.B1 Attached to this Agreement there shall be an Appendix "A" covering the wages, hours, etc,, of the employees included under the provisions of ^^s Agreement.
14.02	A completely itemized computation of employee's pay shall be
shown on his paycheque or s Iip accompanying it. EmpIoyees sha II be paid every second Friday before Moon or on Thursaay when a statutory holiday falls on Friday. The company agrees to pay a12 employees their paycheques on their last: working day before palday i ft he eff ecte d 'employees are not scheduled to work the Friday of pay week because of shortage of work.
14*03 Classification titles and rates of pay applicable thereto for any new classifications ot positions that may be established by the Employer hereafter, shall be subject to negotiations and a supplementary agreement shall be executed between the Employer and the Union.
- 17 -
14.04 Employees who leave the service of the Employer for purposes of educational upgrading for not more than one (1) year, when they return to the service of the Employer shall be given credit for previous experience with the Employer for the purpose of determining their wage rate.
14.05	If an employee is transferred from a lower paying position to a
higher paying position, he shall receive the wage rate applicable to the higher paying position. If he works the majority part of his hours during the day at the higher paying position he shall receive the higher rate of pay for the full day. For the purpose of this clause, majority means any time beyond four (4) hours of work.
If an employee in a higher paying position is requested to transfer to a lower paying position and the employee agrees to the transfer, he will be paid at the wage rate applicable to the lower paying position. If the employee does not agree to take the lower wage rate and the Company still requests tne employee to transfer to the lower paying position, he will be paid at the rate of the-higher paying position he held prior to the transfer.
An employee will have the right to exercise his seniority as to whether they will be transferred or not. It is agreed that the most junior person in the plant must accept the transfer. 'For the purpose of this clause, tho departments shall be defined as: Receiving, Eviscerating, Freezer, and Packaging, It is also' agreed that an employee's former position after he has been transferred shall not be fi 11 e d with an employee with less seniority than the employee who was transferred.
Ji	Employees requested by the Employer to be available and on standby
whenever tho plant i Enot in operation shaJ l be paid standby pay of Twenty-five ($25.00) Dollars per day for each day they must be on standby.
14.07 Drivers* helpers shall be paid at the rate for Truck Drivers
while loading the truck. They shall be paid at the Group C rate of pay for all time spent riding in the truck. However, they will not be entitled to the guaranteed work week as outlined in Appendix (A) subsection {2) while working as a driver’s helper, The Union agrees that the provisions of tnis clause shall have no force or effect unless proper written authorization hao been given to said drivers by management,
-18 -
arnsLfi l.S. : s&Em :AJ;.U2 ^alth
15*01 In order to investigate and prevent accidents and improve condi-tione of work, it is agreed that a Safety committee composed of equal representation from the company and the Union shall be established. Findings and recommendations of the Safety Committee shall be referred to the Company, Should the company fail to act on the recommendations of the committee, such recommendations shall be subject to negotiations between the Company and the Union. The Employer and the employees will co-operate in the strict observance of a I I safety regulations at a31 times. _ They w i 11 make full use of all safely and accident prevention devices and equipment as provided, and maintain safe working practices during their hours of employment within the plant. It is the responsibility of the Employer and employees to observe all safety provisions as approved by the Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
1S.02	The Companv agrees t o pay an employee his regular rate of pay from the hour oi accident to the end of the shift which is covered by Worker's Compenstation.
15.03	The parties agree that the Occupational Health Committee will-direct their attention to looking into the need for suitable clothing for a II employees working in areas in the plant where the temperature Is below comfortable room temperature. It is agreed that if the Occupational Health Committee determines that warm clothing is needed for these employees, then the employer: w i 11 provide such suitable clothing at no cost to the ^^loyees.
15.04	It ie agreed between the parties that all of the Company's trucks shall be eguipped with the following items ab: to assure the health and safety of the truck drivers:
(a)	First Aid Kit)
(b)	Survival Kit;
under Article 7.01 but who is receiving benefits
under Group Insurance, the difference between Group Insurance and the employee's regular rate of pay,
16.03 The company agrees that the present Group Insurance Plan shall remain in effect, but the Company agrees to increase the Life Insurance to fifteen thousand ($15,000.00) dollars and the insurable weeks be increased to seventeen (17) weeks at no cost to the employees .
- 19

16,01 The Employer agrees to implement and pay the full cost of a Family Dental Plan based on a payment of eight cents {$.08) per hour for each straight: time hour worked.
16.02 The company agrees to pay an employee who would otherwise qualify for holiday pay under Article 7.01 but who is receiving benefits under Group Insurance, the difference between Group Insurance and the employee's regular rate of pay.
16.G3 The company agrees that the present: Group Insurance Plan shall remain In effect, but the Company agrees to increase the Life Insurance to fifteen thousand ($15,000.00) dollars and the insurable weeks be increased to seventeen (17) weeks at no cost to the employees.
n ll = TfiCBBM«OSIfiftI. C^LJANGE
17.01 The employer shall notify the Union three ( 3) months before the introduction of any technological or other changes or new methods of operation which affect the rights of employees, conditions of employment, wage rates or workloads.
17.E%2 An employee who is rendered redundant or displaced from his/ her job as a result: of technological change or other change shall be given an opportunity to fill any vacancy for which he/she lias seniority and which he/she i s able to perform. If there is no vacancy, he/she shall have the right to displace employees with less .seniority, providing he/she is able to perform the job.
17.03 Where new or greater skills are required than are already possessed by affected employees under the present methods of operation, such employee shall, at the expense of the Employer, be given a period of time, not to exceed thirty (30) days during which they may perfect or acquire the skills necessitated by the new method of operation. There shall be no reduction in wage or salary rates during the training period of any such employee and no reduction in pay upon being re-classified in the new position.
20
17.04	Should tbe introduction of new methods of operation create a need for the perfection or acquisition of skills requiring a training period longer than three (3) months, the additior.al training time shall be a subject for discussion between the employer and the Union.
17.05	No additional employees shall be hired by the Employer until employees affected by the change, or employees on lay-off, have been not'ified of the proposed technological or other change and allowed a reasonable training period to acquire the necessary knowledge or skills to retain their employment.
&KEICLE l.a = PUfB&glQN
18.01 This Agreement shall be effective from the first dav of
February. 1987. and shall remain in force until January"^1. . 1989. and thereafter from year to year but either party may not less than t hirty (30) days or more than sixty (60) days before the expiry date of this Agreement give notice in writing to either party to terminate this Agreement or negotiate a revision thereto.
SIGNED THIS JO DAY OF	1987.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
-21 -
AEEMPIX
1. Normal hours of work for a 11 employees shall be eight (8) hours
per day not exceeding forty (40) hours, five (5) days per week, and providing for two (2) consecutive days of rest.
e. The Employer agrees to guarantee to permanent employees a minimum of sixty (60) regular hours of work in each payroll period or pay in lieu of work unless otherwise agreed between the employee and the employer, between the months of December through May except Frozen and Fresh Truck Drivers which shall be guaranteed sixty (60) hours of work January through December inclusive. During the months of June through to November the guarantee shall be seventy (7 8) regular hours of work or pay in I i e u of work for a 11 employees except Frozen and Fresh Truck Drivers. An employee who is absent from work for personal reasons on any day shall have his guarantee for the pay period concerned reduced by the number of work hours missed by such absence. In cases of layoffs, recalls, hiring and dismissals without notice, it is agreed that the guarantee will be pro-rated on a daily ^basis.	An
employee who is not scheduled to work but is subsequently called because of sickness (etc.) and is not available to report ta work. shall not have his guarantee of hours reduced.
3.	Tho normal daily schedule of starting and quitting hours and employee's days of rest shall be agreed upon by the Employer and the Union Committee and shall be posted. Any changes in the schedule of hours shall be negotiated as necessary. Should the' Company and the Union agree to deviate from the regular scheduled shift, then a half (1/2) hour lunch period with pay shall be given to all affected employees.
The Union and Company agree that during the months of May through September and the first working day fallowing a statutory Holiday as outlined in Article 7, the regular hours of work shall be from 7 a.m. start time to 4 p.rn. finish time with a one (1) hour unpaid lunch period.
4.	(a) Overtime at one and one-half times (1 1/21 the regular rate
shall be paid for a 11 hours worked after eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours, five (5) days per week.
(b) Tho Employer shall supply a hot: meal to all employees who work beyond ten (10) hours if required to work by the Employer or his designate. The employee shall exercise his option as to either taking a hot meal, not to exceed six ($6.00) dollars, or the money. Should the employee elect to take the money, then the employer agrees to pay all money owed the employee on his first paycheque immediately following such expenditures.
5.	When employees are required to work their r.egularly assigned day of rest, they shall be paid at tine and one-half of their regular rate of pay for the hours worked.
22
6.	When overtime of more than twenty (21a) minutes is schduled to be worked consecutively with the regular hours of work the employee shall be entitled to fifteen (15) minutes paid rest period Before commencing overtime work.
7.	A 11 overtime sh aII be voluntary and shall be performed only after authorization by the Employer except the receiving room, plucking room and eviscerating line area, where all overtime shall be voluntary except for one (1) hour per week, It is understood that should the Company use a portion of the one (1) hour, then it is considered to be the full one (1) hour duration and, therefore, cannot be used for the duration of the ^we. If overtime is to be worked the Company shall meet with the Union Grievance Committee prior tu 10:00 a.m. to discuss the reasons for overtime. In respect: to emergencies with the need for overtime work, the Union agrees to co-operate
8.	The Permanent Night Watchman shall have the use of a Company vehicle to perfom his duties. If a Company vehicle is not available, an allowance o£ $4.50 per day w il 1 be paid to the Permanent Night: watchman for tho use of his own vehicle.
9. The Employer w i 11 pay a thirty-five {$.35) cent per hour night shift premium for all scheduled hours of work between 6.00 p.m. and''7.00 a.m. •
10.	Employees, except 'Engineers on standby, who report for work shall be quaranteed four (4) hours' work or pay in lieu thereof,
11.	Maintenance employees working shifts shall have a minimum of twelve (12) hours off between scheduled shifts. Should the Employer call an employee in €or work without twelve (12) hours' rest from his last shift, then the employee shall be paid at double his regular rate until the twelve (12) hours have been reached.
12.	All hours worked over twelve (12) hours in a day shall be paid for at the rate of double time.
13.	The Company w i 11 allow six ($6.00) Dollars for meals for a II runs except the Wynyard Poultry Farm and the Plains Poultry Farm.
+4. The parties agree to set up two shifts in the freezer as required and deter mined after consul tation with the Union and it is further agreed senior employees get preference to the shift they wish to work.
- 23
APPENDIX ^ = CLaSSIEJCMEIflH liliD. JBftiEEfi
The following job classification and minimum hourly wage cates shall apply to all employees covered by this Agreement.
Engineers - 5th Class		Feb. 1/87 11.04	Feb, 1/80 11.48
4th Class		11.35	11.80
3rd Class		11.63	12.10
Refrigeration, Mechanic	(non-Journeyman)	12.21	12.70
Refrigeration, Mechanic	(Journeyman)	12.78	13.29
Maintenance			
First 30 working days		9.98	10.38
After 30 working days		10.57	10.99
After 120 working days.		11.04	ll.48
Additional fifty ($.50) cents per hour for each Trade Certificate required by the company and carried by the maintenance staff. It is agreed the Certificates required by the Company are as follows:
1)	Journeyman Arc Welding
2)	Journeyman Gas Welding
3)	High Pressure Welding Ticket
4)	Journeyman Electrician
5)	4th Class Steam Ticket
Elfish*. EJLQsen arul ^y.s
Husk D.Liyers iand aai.gR ptaBafegiiax.
First 3D working days	10.85	11.27
Aftcr 30 working day	11.43	11.89
After 120 working days	11.92	12.40
Blast Freezer	ll.G3
filflttP A
Offal Room Attendant, Piucker Operator,
Freezer, Receiving Room '
First 30 working days	9.69
After 30 working days	10.28
After 120 working days	10,76
ll.47
16.08 10.69 11.15
- 24
OJEfiUP Ji
Lung and Kidney Vacuum, Saw Operator, Right Watchman, Delivery Truck Driver, Tank Attendant, Mechanical Deboner Operator
First 30 working days	9.62	10.00
After 30 working days	10.19	10.60
After 120 working days	10.57	18.99
S£fiii£ .C All those jobs not otherwise listed		
First 30 working days	9.33	9.70
After 30 working days	9.86	10.25
After 120 working days	10.17	20 • 56
Leadhand	10.57	10.99
Supervisors	11.30	11.75
Graders	10.77	11.20
Maintenance Supervisor	14.38	14.96
Refrigeration Supervisor	14.38	14.96
The Company agreed to pay the general wage increase retroactive to all employees who have worked for the company since February l, 1987, and all other employees still employed by the Company. The general wage increase shall be paid retroactive to and including February 1, 1987, tor all regular hours, overtime hours, statutory holidays and vacation pay worked by the employees and shall be paid out on a separate pay-cheq u e.
Amend the_ agreement in all classifications by adding four (4%) percent effective February l, 1987, and four (4%) percent effective February 1, 1988, to all wage rates across the Board and all employees on staff at the date of ratification to receive a retroactive payment to and including February l, 1987.
.. 25
LEXXEfi QE.
BETWEEN:	Plains Poultry Limited
AND :	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local 955
TBUP-QBABS: POSITIONS
It is agreed between the Company and the Union that .temporary positions shall be posted in accordance with Article 5,04 of this Collective Agreement. The temporary position shall be for a period not exceeding six (6) months at: which time the position shall be reviewed by the company and the Union or shall be deemed to be a full- time position. After reviewing the position, a decision shall be made to :
Abolish the position;
2)	Extend the time limit;
3)	it a permanent position.
If the job is deemed to be?a full-time position, the present incumbent shall have first right to the position.
If the job is abolished, the present incumbent shall have the t ight to revert to his former position.
Sianeri this /() daw nf	t .	. 1Qfl7 .
Representative
- 26
mm qz mmnmm
BETWEEN:	Plains Poultry Limited
AUD:	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local 955
Work Scheflulss Maintenance Emglflyges
1st Shift - Monday to Friday - 7.:30 a.m. to 3;3,0 p.m.
-	optional l hour unpaid or 20 minute paid lunch period
2nd Shift - Tuesday to Saturday - 1:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
-	20 minute paid Lunch break
3rd Shift - Tuesday to Thursday - 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight
-	20 minute paid lunch break
-	Friday - 1:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
-	20 minute paid lunch break
-	Saturday - 7:30 a.m, to 3:30 p.m.
-	20 minute paid lunch break
It is agreed that the shifts shall be rotated on a weekly basis.
Signed this /(J day of	, 1987.
- 27
LETTER QR PHPERST&MPIMB
Mr. Ralph Effler General Manager Plains Poultry Box 760
WYNY.ARD, Saskatchewan SOA 4TO
Dear Mr. Effler:
The following outlines the agreement between Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local 955 and Plains Poultry Ltd. with tespect to a disciplinary program for employees who are absent from work without good reason. Effective immediately:
First offense - (1) - Step l - written warning
Second Offense - ( 2) - Step 2 - one -day suspension without pay
Third Offense - (3) - Step 3 - three-day suspension without pay
Fourth Offense - (4) - Step 4 - dismissal
After completion of three-months' service without further absenteeism without good reason, an employee who is at Step 2, 3 or4 of the program will move down one step and if he is at Step l, his record wi II be cleared,
Employees absent from work are asked to call the Pereonnel Office of the company by 9:00 a.m. Employees without a telephone are responsible for seeing that their supervisor is advised that they Will not be in.
The above covers the total understanding with.respect to disciplinary action Eor absenteeism.
SIGNED THIS day of	, 1987.
- 28 -
ME ^ UNPEBSI&HDIMfi
BE^TWEEN: AND :
Plains Poultry Limited
Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local 955
The company agrees to purchase a better supply of coveralls for the .employeeswho wish to use them instead of smocks.
The company agrees that all employees in the receiving room shall be properly fitted for coveralls and they shall supply same.
It is further agreed that the receiving room employees snail be allowed to change into clean coveralls once in the forenoon and once in the afternoon.
SIGNED THIS /() day of	, 1987•
Garry .Representative
29 -
Lfi.TI.EE G£ OMDEBSTRfiDIHfi
BETWEEN*	Plains Paultry Limited
\ND.i	Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union,
Local S-955
asu Part-time Shift Horkfiis
This Letter of Understanding shall constitute the agreement reached between tbe parties with respect to working conditions of a pact-tine shift o£ employees.
1.	The Company agrees to employ a second (2nd) shift or part-time workers to work the inside eviocorating line.
2.	All such employees shall not be covered by the guarantee ofl hours provision of this Agreement, however, such schedule of hours shall guarantee a minimum of four (4) hours' work or pay in lieu thereof.
3.	A 11 other applicable provisions of this Agrement; shall apply to part-time employees.
4.	As full-time positions become available, such vacancies shall first be offered to any part-time employee baoed on his/her seniority standing with tho Company.
AGREED TO Aim SIGNED this /(J