AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
Lilydale Inc.,
A Sofina Foods Company,
North Plant
Edmonton, Alberta AND
United Food and Commercial Workers
International Union, Local 1118
Affiliated with the C.L.C. - A.F.L.
2012 - 2015
00273 (10)
TABLE of CONTENTS
Article	Description	Page
	Purpose of Agreement	4
1	Recognition and Jurisdiction	4
2	Union Security	4
3	Basic Work Week and Overtime	5
4	Seniority	9
5	Leave of Absence	13
6	Wages	16
7	Statutory Holidays	16
8	Vacations	17
9	Severance Pay	19
10	Sick Leave	21
11	Employee Benefit Program	21
12	Safety and Welfare	23
13	General Provisions	24
14	Managements Rights	29
15	Harassment	29
16	Successors and Assigns Clause	30
17	Grievance Procedure	30
18	Board of Arbitration	31
19	Guaranteed Work Week	32
20	Termination and Renewal Clause	33
21	Live Haul Drivers	33
22	Long Haul Drivers	3 5
	Appendix “A” - Wages	37
	Appendix “B” - Wages (Live Haul)	40
	Appendix “C” - Wages (Long Haul)	43
	Letter ofUnderstanding - HoursofWork	45
	Letter of Understanding — Sanitation ^Deprtment	46
	Letter of Understanding - Maintenance Wage Survey	47
	Letter of Understanding -Tempos* Foreign Workers	48
2
INDEX
	Clause	Page
Alberta Health Care	11.2	21
Arbitration	18.1	31
Bereavement Leave	5.4	15
Daily Guarantee	3.8	8
Deduction of Union Dues	2.3	5
Dental Plan	I l.4	22
Discipline	17.2	31
Doctor/Dental Appointments	13.8	27
Grievance Procedure	17.1	30
Group Insurance	11.3	21-22
Guaranteed Work Week	19	32-33
Hours of Work	3.1-3.10	4-8
Job Postings	4.9	10
Jury Duty	S.6	IS
Leaves of Absence	5.1, 5.2	13
Live Haul Drivers	21.1	33-34
Long Haul Drivers	22.1	35-36
Managements Rights	14.1-14.3	29
Maternity Leave	5.3	14
Meal Periods	3.9	8
No Discrimination	15.1	29
Overtime Pay	3.1	4-5
Parental Leave	5.3 a]	14
Pension	11.7	23
Probationary Period	4.1	8
Rates for Relief Work	4.10 2)	11
Recognition & Jurisdiction	1.l	4
Recognition of Shop Steward	13.7	26-27
Rest Periods	3.9	8
Safety and Welfare	12.1-12.6	23-24
Safety Committee	12.3	24
Saturday & Sunday Work	3.2, 3.3	6-7
Scheduling	3.1-3.3, 3.10	4-7, 8
Seniority	4.1-4.15	9-13
Severance Pay	9.1, 9.2	19-21
Shift Premium	3.5	7
Sick Leave	io.i	21
Statutory Holidays	7. l	16
Successors and Assigns	16.l	30
Termination and Renewal	20	33
Time Recording	3.6	7
Time Off for Union Business	5.5	15
Time Off to Vote	13.14	28
Transfers	4.13	12-13
Union Market Cards	13.9	27
Union Notices	13.3	25
Vacations	8.1-8.6	17-19
Wages	6.1, Appendix A	16, 37-44
Wearing Apparel	13.5	25-26
Weekly Indemnity	l l.3	21-22
This index is only for easy reference. Members are encouraged to read this Agreement and be conversant with all its provisions. When in doubt as to the interpretation of any section, phone your Union office at 463-6000.
3
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement will promote, improve, and ^main^In industrial, economic and hannonious relations between the Union, the employees and the Company, and to set forth herein the agreement between the parties covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment, to be observed by the Company, its employees and the Union during the term hereof. In administering this Agreement, the Company shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a ^^mer consistent with the agreement as a whole.
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION JURISDICTION
1.1	Bargaining Agency and Unit.
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole agency for the purpose of collective bargaining of all employees in the Plant operated at Edmonton, Alberta as more particularly set forth in the certification granted the Union by the Labeur Relations Board in the Province of Alberta.
ARTICLE 2 - UNION SECURITY
2.1	The Company agrees that the Union membership is a condition of employment for all employees in the bargaining unit.
The Company shall be free to ^re new employees who are not members of the Union, PROVIDED said non-members, whether part-time or full-time employees, shall be eligible for membership in the Union, and shall make application on the first day of employment, and become members within thirty (30) days. All employees shall pay to the Union the regular dues. Employees hired through an outside agency and maintain employment after thirty (30) days shall pay dues retroactive to first day of employment.
2.2	The Company agrees to provide each new employee at the time of employment with a form outlining to the employee, his or her responsibility in regard to Union membership, and to provide the Union in writing with the name and address of each employee to whom they have presented the form letter, along with the employee’s date of hire.
The Union shall bear the expense of printing the forms, the contents of the forms to be such that it is acceptable to the Company. The Company further ^^es to provide the Union, once a month, with a list containing names of all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous month.
2.3	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such initiation fee, monthly dues, assessments, or other deductions as are authorized by the Local Union or upon request of the employee affected where no notification from the said is received.
4
Notification of any change in dues, assessments as aforesaid to be given by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union.
The money deducted during the month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union, not later than the tenth (10th) day of the following month, together with a written statement of the names of the employees for whom deductions have been made and the amount and purpose of each deduction.
2.4	The Company agrees that only employees included in the bargaining unit shall perform any of the work coming within the jurisdiction of this Agreement.
Foremen and those above rank of foremen shall not assume duties that are performed by members of the bargaining unit except where such duties are limited to o^ccasional work, negligible in amount, for the sole reason to overcome production difficulties caused by absence of an employee. In such cases, the Company will obtain a replacement within two (2) hours unless qualified replacement is not available.
ARTICLE 3 - BASIC WORK WEEK AND OVERTIME
3.1	Forty (40) hours per week, consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each, Monday to Friday inclusive, shall constitute the basic work week. All time paid in excess of the daily hours, or the basic work week shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1&1/2) the regular hourly rate. The Company will pay double time on all hours worked over ten (10) hours per day or forty-five (45) hours per week.
a]	In a week in which one (1) Statutory Holiday occurs, employees shall receive forty (40) hours pay at straight time rate and work thirty-two (32) hours.
In a week in which two (2) Statutory Holidays occur, employees shall receive forty (40) hours pay at straight time rate and work twenty-four (24) hours.
b)	Scheduled overtime shall be filled by department seniority. The most senior qualified employee in the department shall have the first opportunity to declare their availability by signing a sign-up sheet.
Incidental overtime necessary to complete a regular scheduled day’s production and unscheduled overtime due to breakdowns after the second rest period will be offered first to the employees currently performing the duties.
If there are insufficient volunteers for overtime, then the selection of employees shall be on a reverse seniority basis in the department, subject to their qualifications.
5
If a senior qualified person is missed in this procedure, that employee shall be paid an amount of overtime equal to the amount that was missed.
Departments are defined as follows:
Live Haul Drivers
Kill & Live Hang
Evisceration
Packaging/Production
Shipping & Delivery Drivers
Sanitation
Maintenance
cJ Production Set-up.
The Company will detennine the amount, nature and timing of set-up work required prior to the commencement of a production shift, if any. Where production set-up work is required, it will be posted and awarded to the senior qualified employee and paid at one and one-half (1&1/2) times the regular hourly rate provided the employee works more than 8 hours in a day when the set-up work and regular shift are combined.
3.2	The basic work day shall be between 4:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. and work performed before 4:00 a.m. and after 4:00 p.m. shall be paid at the overtime rate set out in this Agreement.
a)	All work performed on Saturday shall be paid at one and one-half (1 & 1/2) times the hourly rate for the first four hours and double time the hourly rate or all time after four (4) hours.
b)	All work performed on Sunday shall be paid at two and one-half (2&1/2) times the hourly rate. If an employee reports for work when ordered to do so on the above day they will be given a minimum of four (4) hours work or four hours pay at the rate of pay for that day.
3.3	Sanitation, Shipping & Receiving, and Maintenance.
The basic work day may have varied starting and quitting times providing these hours do not exceed forty (40) hours per week consisting of five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each, with a two (2) day break between work weeks.
All time worked in excess of the daily hours of the basic work week as set out in this Agreement shall be paid as per Article 3.1.
Employees shall have their work schedule of hours and days posted in an appropriate place at least one (1) week in advance.
The schedule of an employee may only be changed in the event of an unscheduled absence of other employees or in the event of emergencies such as fire, fl^ood or breakdown in machinery.
6
The employees will be provided with a list of names and phone numbers of individuals to call if they are the only employee who shows up for their shift.
The Maintenance and Shipping & Receiving schedule shall be posted annually in January for the purpose of shift selection. Shift selection shall be determined by seniority. Shift changes required by the Company shall be posted and be awarded to the most senior applicant. An employee with one or more years seniority who wishes to change their shift shall give the Company four weeks' notice of their desire to do so and shall be allowed to exercise their seniority over the most junior employee of the maintenance department on that shift, provided the employee is qualified and capable of performing the duties on the shift to which they wish to be transferred.
Days of rest will be consecutive, unless mutually agreed otherwise. All work performed on the first day of rest shall be paid at one and one-half times (l .5X) the hourly rate for the first four (4) hours and double time (2X) the hourly rate for all time after four (4) hours.
All work performed on the second day of rest will be paid at two and one-half times (2.5X) the hourly rate.
3.4	Employees who are recalled to the Plant following their completed shift will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at double their hourly rate, except where the time overlaps with the next scheduled shift.
3.5	Shift Premium.
The Company agrees to pay a thirty cent (300) premium to all employees working shift work, for any other shift than the normal day shift. This premium shall not be considered as part of such employees’ basic rates.
3.6	Time Recording.
The Company agrees that he shall provide time recording devices to enable employees to record their hours worked for payroll purposes. Employees shall record their own time at the time they commence and finish work.
Early starts and late finishes will be initialed by the Foremen on a daily basis. Payment shall be to the minute.
3.7	It is agreed between the parties time off shall not be given in lieu of overtime pay.
3.8	Daily Guarantee.
Each employee called for work shall be entitled to four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay for that call, if there is no work available. Upon reporting for work, as scheduled, all waiting time shall be paid at the regular rate of pay.
3.9	Rest Periods.
Daily hours of work shall be consecutive with the exception of a fifteen (15)
7
minute rest period to commence not earlier than one and one-half (l&Yi) hours nor later ^an two and one-half (2&Y2) hours after the start of their shift. Meal periods shall not exceed one ( 1) hour. Employees working one and one-half (l&Yi) hours or more in the afternoon shift of their regular scheduled work day, shall be given a fifteen (15) minute rest period to be taken not earlier than one and one half (l&Yi) hours nor later than two (2) hours following the lunch period. If an employee is entitled to receive a fifteen minute rest period and is sent home before the break, they will receive pay for such time without having to wait in the coffee room. Employees shall not be required to work more ^an five (5) hours without a first meal period and an additional four and one-half (4 & Yi) hours without a second meal period.
An employee required to work in excess of the first five (5) hours or the second four and one half (4-1/2) hours will be paid two (2) times their regular rate for all time worked until the meal period is granted. An employee required to work in excess of the second four and one- half (4 & !12) hour portion of shift, the Company will allow (30) minutes with pay at the rates paid for that period for such meal period. The employee shall have the choice of a hot meal or seven dollars ($7.00) on their next cheque. Poultry killer shall have adequate time for personal cleaning before all rest periods and meal periods.
3.10	Work Schedule.
Scheduled hours of work (starting and quitting) shall be posted not later ^an the employee's lunch break for the following day.
Notice of overtime shall be posted before the employee’s lunch break, with approximate quitting time.
Employees needed in a department other than their regular department will be told before lunch break.
3.11	In the event there is not sufficient work in a department, the senior qualified employee(s) shall have the opportunity to remain to perform the work made available by the most junior employee(s') work day ending, subject to Article 19.
ARTICLE 4 - SENIORITY
4.1	When an employee has completed 90 calendar days in the service of the Company or any extended period mutually agreed upon by the Union and Management, they shall be granted seniority from date of hire.
4.2	The Company shall maintain and post a seniority list every three (3) months for all employees and this list shall be available to all employees for reference at any time during working hours. A copy of the said seniority list to be forwarded to the Union office.
8
4.3	Length of continuous service with the Company shall be the deciding factor governing lay-off and re-employment after lay-off Employees may choose to go on layoff as opposed to accepting a position to which they would bump.
Employees recalled to a department other than the dep^artment where the layoff originated shall have the option of accepting the employment or continuing on layoff until such time as they are recalled to the department from which they are laid off.
The employees who accept employment in a department other than the department where the lay off originated, shall be transferred to the dep^artment in which they are now employed.
As an exception to the above, lay-off of employees in the Maintenance, Shipping & Delivery Drivers, Live Haul Drivers, or Live Hang classifications shall be determined by the length of continuous service with the Company of those employees in the Maintenance, Shipping & Delivery Drivers, Live Haul Drivers, or Live Hang departments.
4.4	By local ^argements between the Company and the Union, the names of employees to be laid off or recalled will be available to the Union on the same day the employees are notified or the day prior. A list of the names shall be forwarded to the Union within one working day of notification.
4.5	Promotions shall be defined as a transfer to a position paying a higher rate, and no employee shall be considered as being demoted unless they are transferred to a position paying a lower rate.
4.6	If an employee is absent from work because of sickness or accident they shall not lose seniority rights, and shall re^m to the position held prior to their absence when capable of performing his/her duties. It shall be the duty of each employee so absent to notify the Company of the reasons of the absence, and how long their absence will last Where the employee fails to do so the Company may, at its’ discretion, request the employee to verify their absence.
4.7	New employees will be on probation for a period of 90 calendar days or any extended period mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Company during which time they may be laid-off without reference to seniority and the Company is under no obligation to re-hire such employees. The termination of a probationary employee shall not be the subject of a grievance. All employees retained beyond the 90 calendar days probation period shall become regular employees and entitled to seniority in accordance to the length of service and entitled to all benefits under this Agreement and may be discharged only for just cause. In the event that it is found that an employee is wrongfully fired, they shall not suffer any loss of seniority, if reinstated as an employee. Any employee with 90 or more calendar days of service with the Company who is laid off, terminated, or terminates voluntarily and is rehired within one (1) year, shall receive the rate of pay for the job classification as specified in Appendix A of this Agreement.
9
4.8	The words “qualified” or “qualifications” as used in this Agreement shall be interpreted to mean ability to regularly perform the job without other assistance.
4.9	Job Postings.
When job vacancies occur and the Company requires replacements, and when the Company creates new jobs, they shall be posted on the bulletin board for a period of three (3) working days during which time written applications may be made by the employee. Copies of all such posting swill be sent to the Union. The most senior applicant within the plant shall receive such job posting. If no suitable applications ^ received, then the Company may hire a person to fill the job. It is understood to apply for a posting in the Maintenance, Live Haul Drivers, and Shipping & Delivery Drivers, an employee must be qualified.
Tempo^rp appointments may be made by the Company pending receipt of applications.
An employee who received a promotion through the posting procedure shall not be permitted to apply again until four (4) consecutive months have elapsed.
Only the original vacancy and the job from which the vacancy was filled shall be posted. Any vacancies created beyond the second posting will not be posted but will be filled in accordance with dep^artmental seniority.
An employee receiving a new job posting will be on a trial basis for up to twenty (20) days worked. If they cannot perform the job satisfactorily, they shall be reamed to their prior job or the employee may re^m to the former job if they are not satisfied.
4.10	Promotions and Job Assignments.
1)	The Company agres that all promotions and job assignments involving an increase in pay will be based on seniority of the employee affected, provided qualifications and ability are comparatively equal.
2)	Employees required to temporarily fill a higher rated job, shall receive the classified rate for balance of the shift, but if required temporarily to fill a lower rated job, shall receive their regular rate of pay.
3)	Where employees are required to transfer from one department to another on a permanent basis due to the operational needs of the Company it shall be done on the following basis.
The opportunity to transfer shall first be given to senior employees. In the event that no employee wishes to take the transfer, the least senior employees shall be transferred and shall be given the first opportunity to transfer back to that department when a position becomes available.
10
4)	Where an employee is offered a supervisory position outside the bargaining unit and less then six (6) months time has expired, the employee can choose to ret^, or the Company can require the employee to	ret^, to their
former position with no loss of seniority. This provision is restricted to be used only once by an employee during their employment with the Company.
4.11	An employee shall not lose seniority rights if he/she is temporarily absent from work because of illness, accident or leave of absence or is laid off.
An employee shall lose their seniority and employment in the event he or she:
a)	is discharged for just cause;
bJ resigns;
cJ is laid off and fails to report for work within three (3) working days after being notified in writing by certified mail to do so. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the Company informed of their current address and telephone number.
d J	An employee shall not lose seniority rights if he/she is temporarily
absent from work because of illness, accident or leave of absence or is laid off.
An employee shall lose their seniority and employment in the event he or she:
a.	is discharged for just cause;
b.	resigns;
c.	is laid off and fails to report for work within three (3) working days after being notified in writing by certified mail to do so. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the Company informed of their current address and telephone number.
d.	is laid off for a period exceeding eighteen (18) months.
.4.12 After absence due to injury or illness the employee must be returned to his/her job without loss of seniority when capable of performing his/her duties provided two (2) years have not elapsed between the ret^ and the last day worked, in the case of compensable accident and one year in the case of illness or non-compensable accident.
Upon recuperation from an extended absence the employee will give the Company one (1) weeks notice of his/her intention to re^m to work.
If there is a reoccurrence of the illness or injury that caused the original absence within one (1) month from the date of re^m then the absence is considered to have continued. It is understood that the actual time worked will be added to the time
II
limits specified above before the termination is effected.
4.13	TRANSFERS.
Transfers to another shift or another department shall be based on seniority. Employees with one or more years’ seniority may submit a written request to the Production Manager provided they have not been transferred within the previous 12 months.
All transfers shall be made to the most junior position in the dep^artment requested.
Upon receipt of a transfer request, the Company will first give the senior employees in the plant, and/or shift affected, the opportunity to fill the vacancy created by the transfer. In the event no employee wishes to fill the vacancy created, then the employee requesting the transfer shall exercise his/her seniority over the most junior employee in the plant, and/or department, and/or shift that he/she wishes to transfer to.
All transfer requests will be approved based on seniority and processed within 30 working days. Transferred employees will be on trial for 30 working days. The Company may return the employee to the department/shift from which the transfer originated if they cannot perform the job satisfactorily, or the employee may re^m to the department/shift if they are not satisfied.
4.14	Bidding for Vacancies - While Away on Vacation.
An employee who will be absent for a vacation for up to six weeks may submit a written application prior to leaving on vacation for a speeific position which may be posted during their absence. The application will be void at the conclusion of the scheduled vacation.
4.15	Each January the Company will pest a request for employees to indicate their desire to work in temporary assignments equal or higher than their curent classification in the plant. Employees will be selected by seniority for each temporary assignment. In the event the list becomes insufficient for the needs, the Company may post again during the year. Employees may choose to remove their name from the list at any time.
An employee may add their name to the list after the posting is closed, however they will not displace an employee who is already in an assignment or being trained for a particular position.
ARTICLE 5 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
5.1	Requests for leave of absence extending over a period of more than one (1) week must be received in writing, and in no case to exceed three (3) months, provided however, that it may be extended by parties hereto. The Company will return their
12
answer to a request in writing within seven (7) days. Absence without cause shall constitute grounds for dismissal.
5.2	Leave of absence without pay may be granted, by mutual agreement, in addition to regular vacation, however, employees’ with four (4) or more years seniority may request and shall be granted two (2) weeks of unpaid leave in addition to their regular vacation. Request for leave of absence must be submitted with the vacation requests as outlined in Article 8.3. Requests for leave of absence shall be made in writing stating reasons therefore. Leaves of absence for extended vacation shall not be granted during July and August.
This request shall be limited to once every four (4) years with a limit of nine (9) persons.
5.3	Maternity Leave.
Employees with twelve (12) months of consecutive service with the Company may request, and will be granted, leave of absence because of pregnancy.
Employees shall submit request for such leave, in writing, at least two (2) weeks prior to the date she intends to commence such leave together with a medical certificate certifying she is pregnant and indicating the estimated date of confinement. Such leave shall be for a period not exceeding 15 weeks. The employee will provide the Company with one (1) weeks notice of her intent to return to work.
Upon return to work the employee will be reinstated and given credit for seniority accumulated from the date the leave of absence commenced until the date of the employees re^m to work.
a)	Parental Leave.
An employee with twelve (12) or more months consecutive service with the Company may request a leave of absence, without pay, for the care and custody of a newborn child, or a child adopted under the law of the Province of Alberta, to a maximum of 3 7 weeks.
The employee will provide the Company with two (2) weeks notice of their intent to return to work. An employee who is granted this leave will be responsible for the full cost of continuing the Company’s group insurance package.
b]	The Maternity/Parental leave shall be consecutive except when an employee is required ' to work additional hours to qualify under the Employment Insurance Act.
13
In addition to the foregoing leave, the Company will provide one (1) day paternity leave, with pay, within one (1) week of the birth of a child. 11ris leave is not applicable when the employee is absent from work as a result of being on vacation or a statutory holiday, is collecting weekly indemnity or Workers Compensation benefits, or is on leave of absence.
5.4	Bereavement Leave.
a]	An employee shall be granted not less than two (2) days off from work, with pay, in the event of death in the immediate family, length of such leave shall be determined by the Company. The term immediate family shall mean son-in-law, daughter-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepbrother, stepsister, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, and stepchild.
b]	Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the death is a case of spouse, father, mother, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents or grandchildren, the employee shall be entitled up to four (4) days with pay and further consideration of leave of absence at the time of bereavement.
c]	Consideration will also be given with respect to travel time. Employee's day off or vacation will not be used to circumvent funeral leave.
d]	The Company agrees to include the common-law relationship of six (6) consecutive months or longer.
5.5	The Company agrees to grant necessary time off, without pay, and without loss of accrued seniority to any employee who is elected, appointed or designated by the Union to attend a labour convention or to serve in any capacity on legitimate Official Union business, provided however, that sufficient notification is given the Company so that such employee’s position can be filled.
Where a leave of absence is granted an employee by the Company, provided such leave does not exceed one (l) year, the employee shall suffer no loss of seniority for that period.
5.6	Jury Duty.
An employee s^^oned to jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such jury service and the amount of basic wages they would normally have earned had they been scheduled to work on such days. The employee shall report for work when not required by the Court providing there is not less ^an two (2) hours remaining in his or her normal work shift. Time worked on the job in excess of eight (8) hours combined with jury duty and time worked on the job in one day shall be considered overtime and paid at applicable overtime rates.
14
ARTICLE 6 - WAGES
6.1	The Company agrees that during such time as this Agreement is in force, it will pay all persons covered by the terms of this Agreement, not less than the regular hourly rates set forth in Appendix A of this Agreement and if any employee is receiving a wage in excess of the regular hourly rates contained in Appendix A of this Agreement such wage rates shall not be reduced by reason of the signing of this Agreement.
It is agreed that in the event that other work classifications other ^an those set forth hereto are instituted, the Company and the Union shall meet and negotiate a rate of pay for such employees.
ARTICLE 7 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
7.1	The following days shall be considered as paid holidays for all employees:
New Year’s Day Family Day Victoria Day Good Friday Canada Day First Monday in August
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
a)	All employees that have completed thirty (30) days worked shall be paid for the agreed holidays, subject to Sections b], c], and d].
b)	Employees shall receive pay for Statutory Holiday or Holidays, provided they work their scheduled work day before and after the holiday unless absent by reason of bona fide sickness, accident or emergency.
Employees who are laid-off shall receive pay for Statutory Holiday or holidays that occur within thirty (30) days of the lay-off commencing, such to be paid upon re^m from lay-off.
c)	If any of these days fall on Saturday or Sunday the following Monday shall be observed as the holiday.
d)	Any employee required to work on any of the above Statutory Holidays listed in the Agreement, shall be paid at the regular rate for the Statutory Holiday, and in addition receive two (2) times their regular rate for all hours worked on such a day.
e)	Employees who celebrate Christmas and New Years on different days because of different religious practices, may request and will be granted time off without pay, subject to the operational requirements of the plant.
15
ARTICLE 8 - VACATIONS
8.1	Employees regularly working full-time shall receive vacation with pay in accordance with the terms of the following schedule setting out consecutive years of service. Effective March 21, 1982:
Two (2) weeks vacation after one (l) years service ^Three (3) weeks vacation after four (4) years service Four (4) weeks vacation after nne (9) years service Five (5) weeks vacation after fifteen (15) years service Six (6) weeks vacation after twenty (20) years service
8.2	Vacation pay for each week of vacation shall be computed as the greater of:
a]	Two percent (2%) of the employee’s total gross earnings on which he is eligible to receive vacation pay, or
b)	Forty (40) hours at the employee’s current rate of pay subject to the following conditions:
The forty (40) hour calculation will be pro-rated over a fifty-two (52) week period when:
i)	the employee is taking holidays prior to his eligibility date (i.e. anniversary date).
ii)	the employee has been absent due to a leave of absence in excess of two (2) weeks during the anniversary year on which holiday pay is being paid.
iii)	the employee has been absent due to non-occupational illness or accident in excess of thirty (30) days during the anniversary year on which holiday pay is being paid.
iv)	the employee has been absent due to occupational illness or accident in excess of six (6) months during the anniversary year on which holiday pay is being paid.
(Note: the balance owing, if any, will be paid once the anniversary date is passed)
It is understood that where less than twelve (12) months have elapsed since the employee last took vacation the forty (40) hours calculation referred to in part (b) above will be pro-rated over a twelve (12) month period.
16
8.3	a) The selection of vacation period shall be on the basis of seniority in each department and the senior employee may be granted first preference. Vacations may be granted at any time subject to the demands of the business but the Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacations at the time requested by the employees. Vacations are to be taken in the vacation year. Where employees are entitled to three (3) or more weeks of paid vacation, such employees may only schedule two (2) weeks between July 1st and August 31st.
Ten percent 00%) vacation allowance per dep^artment will be permitted. Where possible, at the sole discretion of the Company, in excess of ten percent (10%) will be allowed.
The Company further agrees where employees are entitled to three (3) or more weeks of paid vacation and request them to be taken in a period between the months of January I st and April 30lh of each year, the employees can take them consecutively.
Any vacations not booked by September 30th of each year may be scheduled by the Company. Any vacation request outside of the annual booking, as per Article 8.3 c], must be submitted in writing no less than four (4) weeks prior to the proposed start of the vacation. Vacation requests submitted with less than four (4) weeks’ notice will be granted only upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
b)	After all holidays are assigned, the schedules shall be posted.
c]	For the purposes of planning and scheduling vacation, the vacation year shall be from May l st to April 30th each year. Booking of vacations shall take place in the month of March.
8.4	When a Statutory Holiday occurs during an employee’s vacation, they will receive pay for that Statutory Holiday before such vacation. When a Statutory Holiday occurs during an employee’s vacation between October 1st and April 30th, they may request an extra day in lieu thereof. The granting of such request must be by mutual agreement. The request by the employee and the decision by the Company must be in writing.
8.5	Employees terminating their employment shall receive payment for vacation allowance on total wages and salary e^ed by the employee during the period of employment for which no vacation allowance has been paid.
17
Those entitled to less than:
two (2) weeks vacation- 4% three (3) weeks vacation - 6% four (4) weeks vacation - 8% five (5) weeks vacation - I 0% six (6) weeks vacation -12%
Employees with less than one years service with the Company who are laid-off will be paid their accumulated vacation pay at time of lay-off (within two weeks from date oflay-off), if such is requested, in writing, by the employee.
8.6	The Company agrees to provide each employee with a full accounting of their vacation pay calculation on as	basis, once the employee has taken their
complete holiday entitlement for the year.
ARTICLE 9- SEVERANCE PAY
9.1	Employees regularly working full-time, upon termination by the Company, except employees terminated for proper cause, which shall include but not be limited to dishonesty, d^kenness, or drinking intoxicants during working hours, or insubordination, shall be given individual notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof as follows:
1)	One (1) weeks notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed sixty (60) days service.
2)	Two (2) weeks notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have two (2) years service.
One additional weeks notice for each full year of service or pay in lieu up to a maximum of twenty-four (24) weeks.
At 6 months, employees can choose to be terminated and all monies owed will be paid out at that time
9.2	Complete Plant Closure or Substantial Reduction. The Company shall give notice of its intention to close the Plant or reduce its active work force at the time of lay off by more then 50% at least 90 calendar days prior to such closure or reduction.
In case of plant closure or reduction of the active workforce as described in Article 9.2, the Company and Union will meet and discuss the issue of movement, assignment and placement of workers.
A pool of workers for a plant closure and/or reduction of the active workfoorce, as described above, may be implemented.
18
When it becomes necessary to close the Plant and it is not expected that those affected will be re-employed, a separation allowance will be paid to those employees, subject to the following:
a]	They have one (1) or more years seniority;
b]	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid-off within the thirty (30) day period preceding the date of notice of closing. Employees on leave of absence up to one (1) year and receiving Worker’s Compensation or off sick will be eligible;
c]	They have not refused an offer of other employment by the Company in another unit, the location of which is reasonably accessible;
d]	They have not been transferred to another unit of the Company;
e]	The closing is not brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slow down or other cessation of work, fire, gove^ment action or Act of God;
t] In order to qualify for separation allowance, employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required;
g] The scale of separation allowance shall be as follows:
Years of
Completed Service	Amount
From 1 tolO	One week per full year
From 11 and over	I Yi weeks per full year
maximum 26 weeks
Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall on so doing, terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no ^rther rights under this Agreement or wider any other Agreement between the signing parties.
It is understood that employees who are eligible for payment under this clause, shall not be eligible for severance pay as outlined in Section 9.1.
Tbe company agrees to pay the severance allowance into the employees account in the pension plan (CCWIPP), subject to the approvals required by the pension plan and Canada Customs and Revenue Agency.
ARTICLE 10 - SICK LEA VE
10.1	The Company agrees to provide sick leave with pay, earned at the rate of one (I) daysick leave for each month of employment. Employees will accrue one (1) sick
19
day credit only if they worked every scheduled work day of the calendar month for which the accrual is being calculated. Sick leave with pay shall be cumulative up to twenty (20) days. Accumulation shall commence upon completion of a six (6) month eligibility period.
a]	On a day that an employee works less than three (3) hours and goes home ■ sick, day shall be counted as first day of sickness. Sick employees shall not be requested to remain in the plant beyond the three (3) hours to circumvent first day of sickness.
b]	No employee on sick leave shall receive pay for the first day of absence, except those employees who are off six (6) days or more and have accumulated credits.'
c]	The Company agrees to pay out unused sick leave credits to employees after six (6) months of illness, twelve (12) months oflay-off and immediately upon retirement on Pension. All holidays will be considered as time worked when computing sick leave.
d]	Doctor’s note is not required for two (2) or less days of illness. The Company agrees to pay Doctor’s bills, when requested by Company, up to a maximum of$30.00/receipt (upon proper proof of receipt).
ARTICLE 11 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PROGRAMS
11 The Company agrees to have a joint Union-Management committee investigate the viability of moving to Trusteed Benefit Plans.
11.1	Employees must complete three (3) months of employment to be eligible for the benefit coverages set out in Sections 11.2, 11.3, and 11.5. Coverage commences on the first day following completion of three (3) months service and stops immediately upon termination. The Company and Union agree that the premium for these coverages will be paid 75% by the Company and 25% by the employee.
11.2	The Company agrees to maintain the Alberta Health Care Insurance coverage.
11.3	Group Life Insurance
The Company agrees to provide as a condition of employment for all employees covered by this Agreement a Group Life Insurance Policy with coverage of the greater of twenty thou^d dollars ($20,000.00) or an amount equal to 2,080 hours times the employee’s regular rate of pay.
Weekly Indemnity
The Company agrees to provide a Weekly Indemnity Instance program that provides employees with sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66%%) of their weekly earnings based on forty (40) hours per week at the regular rate of pay up to a maximum allowed under the Employment Insurance Act for a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks when absent from work due to a non-occupational illness or accident.
20
Employees on layoff are not eligible to collect Weekly Indemnity benefits. Weekly income benefits begin with the first day of disability due to injury or the fourth consecutive working day of disability due to illness but in no event prior to the first day of treatment by a doctor.
11.4	Dental Plan
a]	The Company agrees to participate in and contribute to the Alberta Retail Meat Industry Dental Plan.
b]	Effective April 1, 2013, the Company will increase their contribution to forty-five cents (0.450) per hour to a maximum of eighteen dollars ($18.00) per week for all hours paid by the Company to members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days [not including Weekly Indemnity],jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
Effective April 1, 2014, the Company will increase their contribution to forty-six cents (0.460) per hour to a maximum of eighteen dollars and forty cents ($18.40) per week.
c]	The Company and the Union a^ee to the original method of selection of Company and Union Trustees to administer the Plan. It is agreed that the terms of the Plan and its administration will be entirely the responsibility of these original Trustees or their valid replacements, provided that the Plan is administered consistently with this Collective Agreement subject to any applicable gove^ment law or regulation and with the intention of meeting all of the requirements for continued registration under the Income Tax Act of Canada. Subject to the foregoing, the Company and the Union agree to be bound by the actions taken by the Company and the Union Trustees under the Plan.
11.5	It is agreed that the Company’s extended Health Care Program will be made available to all employees.
11.6	An employees’ employment benefits coverage provided under Articles 11.2, 11.3,
11.5	shall cease when:
i)	in the case oflay-off of an employee with less than 12 months service after 3 months lay-off.
In the case oflay-off of an employee with more than 12 months service after 6 months lay-off.
ii)	they have been absent from work due to illness or non-compensable accident in excess of nine (9) months.
iii)	They have been absent from work due to compensable accident in excess of24 months.
21
11.7	Pension
Effective January I, 1990 the Company agrees to participate in and contribute to the C^anadian Commercial Workers’ Industry Pension Plan.
Effective upon ratification, the Company agrees to contribute to the C.C.W.I.P.P. sixty-nine cents (690) per hour for all hours paid by the Company to members of the bargaining unit, for curent service benefits.
Effective April 1, 2013, the Company will increase the rate of contribution for current service to seventy-four cents (740) per hour.
Effective April 1, 2014, the Company will increase the rate of contribution for current service to seventy-nine cents (790) per hour.
Hours paid shall include hours worked, vacations, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity), juty duty, bereavement leave, etc. up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
ARTICLE 12 - SAFETY AND WELFARE
12.1	The Company shall make provision for the safety health of the employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices and other equipment deemed necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company.
a)	The Company shall have on the premises, persons qualified and responsible to provide FIRST AID care to injured employees and shall take the necessary measures to provide them with medical attention.
The FIRST AID persons shall be identified by a RED CROSS on their helmet.
Employees attending first aid courses at the request of the Company will be paid their regular hourly rate for all hours spent on the first aid course.
12.2	The Company ^rther agrees to provide adequate heating facilities and a buffer wall to prevent drafts from open doorways as mutually agreed by the Union and Management.
12.3	There shall be a Union Management Safety Committee appointed and shall constitute two (2) representatives appointed by the Union and two (2) representatives appointed by Management. Both parties shall be motivated by the need for appointing members to the Committee who shall be best capable of promoting safety throughout the Plant. Regular meetings of the Safety Committee shall be held each month. A list of names of the Safety Committee members shall be kept posted on the bulletin board in the lunch room.
22
12.4	An employee injured while working in the	Plant shall suffer no loss of e^njngs for
the balance of hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if; as a result of such injury they are sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention and transportation will be provided.
12.5	No employee will be required to work alone at any time at the Plant as stated in Article 3.3.
12.6	Modified Work Program. On the first	day that an employee reports to the
workplace on a modified work program,	there shall be a meeting involving the
Employee, the Production Manager or their or their designate, the Plant Health & Safety Co-ordinator, and the Chief Shop Steward, or their designate. The Union Business Representative may also attend. At this meeting the parties may be made aware of the Employees modified work. The discussion will include, but not limited to, the specific duties to be performed, the limitations that have been placed on the employee’s activities, the durations of the modified work program, and the process to be used in monitoring the Employee’s progress.
When there is a change required in the Employee’s modified work plan, the group will reconvene to review the changes required.
The Employee, Production Manager or designate, the Employee’s Supervisor and Chief Shop Steward or designate will receive a copy of the modified work plan (Cle^ance To Re^m to Work) and any subsequent changes. The modified work plan will be considered as a confidential document.
ARTICLE 13 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
13.1	A suitable rack will be ^furnished in the dressing rooms or elsewhere on which to hang wet clothes and aprons. This rack shall be in a place that is heated so that clothing will dry in a reasonable time.
13.2	The Company will allow adequate relief as well as the necessary time for changing clothes or equipment necessitated by change from one job to another where working conditions are different.
13.3	The Company agrees that the Union will have the right to use the bulletin board, to be used for posting notices of official Union business exclusively, and not to be used for discriminating political propaganda. All such notices shall be submitted to a Company official for approval before posting.
13.4	The Union agrees not to call a meeting of its members who are employees of the Company during working hours that will interfere with the normal operations of the Company.
13.5	All uniforms, smocks, aprons, caps, hairnets, gloves and new boots and any other special wearing apparel an employee is required to wear, shall be ^furnished and laundered by or at the expense of the Company. The first issue of new plastic coats
23
on wet lines will be charged out at cost and further issues at no charge on exchange. The employee shall be responsible for any such apparel they may lose providing adequate lockers are supplied.
The Company further agrees to supply and clean Truck Drivers uniforms at no cost to the employee. It is understood and agreed that all such wearing apparel is the property of the Company.
a]	Appropriate freezer coats and gloves will be provided for employees working in holding coolers or freezing units. The Company shall provide woolen gloves and felt insoles with each issue of new rubber boots. The number of coats supplied shall be determined by the Company. It is understood that such wearing apparel is the property of the Company and the employee must not take such wearing apparel away from the premises.
b]	Upon completion of six (6) months service, employees required to wear safety shoes shall receive seventy-five dollars ($75.00) towards the purchase of a new pair of safety shoes and thereafter shall be limited to seventy-five dollars ($75.00) every six (6) months or one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) every twelve (12) months. To qualify for reimbursement the old pair of safety shoes must be turned in at the time of replacement.
Employees required to wear rubber boots will be responsible to purchase their first pair. Thereafter the Company will provide replacement boots to the employee at no cost provided the old boots are t^ed in at the time of replacement.
Employees working in refrigerated areas are eligible to receive upgraded, insulated footwear as provided by the Company.
Employees shall purchase their initial pair. The Company will provide subsequent issues at no cost provided the old boots are ^turned in at time of replacement.
The Company agrees to supply proper external hearing protection or internal hearing protection. The employee may elect which type to wear and will be allowed the option of wearing both.
c| The first issue of insulated vests to packaging dep^artment employees will be charged out at cost and ^rther issues at no charge on exchange.
d]	The Company shall provide all maintenance employees with the required tools. The parties agree that the principles covered in the Employment Standards Code shall apply. If it is determined that an employee is to be held responsible for the tool(s) then the employee shall replace them with like or better quality tool(s).
24
13.6	Union Representative calling on Plant:
Any authorized Union representative may, upon receiving permission from the Company, enter the Plant, providing however, the said representative shall not unduly occupy the time of employees during working hours.
In the event that the company deems it necessary to meet with an employee away from his/her work station, the employee will be accompanied by a steward.
Union representatives (Chief Shop Steward) shall not leave their work to process or deal with any matter without first advising and receiving approval from their immediate supervisor. The Company shall exercise reasonableness in their handling of such requests.
13.7	Recognition of Shop Stewards:
a)	Shop Stewards may be elected or appointed by the Union from time to time and the Company shall be notified by the Union of such elections or appointments.
b)	Complaints and grievances of a minor or emergency nature, may be submitted verbally by the Shop Steward to the designated representative of the Company prior to processing in the manner outlined in Articles 17 of the Collective Agreement.
c)	The Shop Steward may raise grievances and complaints with the Human Resources Manager, or in his/her absence, the Plant Manager, at a time suitable to both parties which may include time during regular working hours.
d)	■When a Shop Steward is investigating a complaint or grievance on Company time, he/she will first notify the Human Resources Manager or in his/her absence the Plant Manager. The time chosen for the investigation of the complaint or grievance must be acceptable to the Company; however, the Company will exercise reasonableness in the handling of such requests. The length of time involved in investigating the complaint or grievance, on Company time, will be that considered reasonable by both the Shop Steward and the Plant Manager.
e)	It is agreed that the Shop Steward and Plant Manager will make every effort to resolve the complaints and grievances as quickly as possible.
t) It is agreed that, as far as possible, the handling of complaints and grievances will be confined to such times that will minimize any interference with the operations of the Company.
g) The Chief Shop Steward, or their designate, shall be allowed to participate in the New Employee Orientation sessions as follows:
25
i]	At the end of each session the Union representative will be
allowed fifteen ( 15) minutes of paid time to address the new employees.
ii} During this time the Union representative may: explain the Union’s structure and role within the plant, distribute copies of the Collective Agreement and/or other printed material, answer any questions that the new employees may have.
A Company representative will be in attendance at all times.
h) Shop Stewards will not suffer discrimination with respect to any condition of employment (including transfers) by reason of their involvement in lawful Union activities.
13.8	Employees will be granted time off without pay to keep doctor or dentist appointments or other appointments providing however, the Company is given one (1) weeks notice in advance except in emergency.
13.9	The Company agrees to display the Union Shop card which shall be ^furnished to the Company free of charge by the Union.
13.10	The Company agrees to provide copies of all attendance or discipline letters to the Union.
13.11	Pre employment medicals are to be paid for by the employee. All subsequent medicals required by the Company are to be paid for by the Company.
13.12	The company may request a Driver’s Abstract at any time from an employee classified as a Truck Driver, or any employee temporarily filling that position, for the purpose of detennining that the employee has a valid driver’s license. The company will pay for the fee for obtaining the Abstract.
13.13	Payment of net wages owing will be made by electronic transfer of funds direct to the employee’s bank account on each payday. Payment remittance advises which provide the supporting documentation for the electronic transfer will be issued to employees before the end of the last scheduled shift prior to the payday.
Payday is every second Friday. The electronic transfer of funds will be processed before twelve o’clock noon on those days. Where payday is a Statutory Holiday, then the transfer of funds will occur by twelve o’clock noon on the last working day prior to the Statutory Holiday.
Employees may select the financial institution of their choice and may change that designation by giving the Company thirty (30) days notice.
26
13.14	Time Off to Vote:
The Company agrees to fully comply "With any law requiring that employees be given time off to vote.
13.15	Joint Union/Management labour relations committee
The parties agree to set up a Joint Union/Management labour relations committee. This committee will be composed of the following individuals:
1)	For the Union - Full time Union Rep, Chief Steward or his/her designated representative and one (1) other member of the bargaining unit.
2)	For the Company - up to three (3) members of management.
This committee will meet on a monthly basis to review issues of concerns to both parties, where possible.
13.16	The first lost swipe card will be replaced free of charge to employees. The second and any subsequent loss of swipe cards will result in the employee being charged $5.00 per replacement card.
13.17	HACCP Regulations. The Company will allow an additional five {5) minutes at each break period to accommodate the employees' requirements to comply with HACCP regulations.
13.18	Drug Card. The Company agrees to provide a "drug card" at no cost to the employees.
ARTICLE 14 - MANAGEMENTS RIGHTS
14.1	The Management of the Plant and the direction of the working force including (without limiting the generality of the foregoing) the right to hire, suspend or discharge for cause, to assign and re-assign employees to jobs, to transfer employees from department to department, to increase and decrease the working force, to determine the products to be handled, produced, processed or manufactured, the schedule of production, and the methods, processes and means of production and handling are vested exclusively with the Company provided these rights will not be used to discriminate against employees.
14.2	Cases of disagreement shall be dealt with in accordance with the Grievance Procedure as outlined in this Agreement.
14.3	The Company retains all rights to manage the business not limited by the express provision of this Agreement.
27
ARTICLE 15 - HARASMENT
15.1	No employee shall be transferred, dismissed or discriminated against in any way for any lawful Union activity, or for serving on a Union Committee outside of business hours, or for reporting to the Union any violation of the provisions of this Agreement.
Any employee alleging wrongful ^transfer, dismissal, or discrimination, may place his or her allegation before the Union Representative and if said Representative considers that the objection has merit, the ^^sfer, dismissal or lay-off shall become a grievance and be subject to the Grievance Procedure as established in this Agreement.
There shall be no discrimination against any employee for refusal to cross a legal picket line or obey a lawful Union order. The Company further agrees that there will be no discrimination with reference to Human Rights Act, Section 6, 1A and B.
15.2	Harassment
The Union and the Company agree that the workplace should be free of harassment, as defined by the Company Policy-Harassment. The Company and Union will co-operate with each other in preventing and eliminating harassment.
ARTICLE 16 - SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS CLAUSE
16.1	This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company herein, and its successors and assigns, and no provision herein contained, shall be nullified or affected in any manner as a result of any consolidation, sale, ^transfer, or assi^gnment, or any other form of business organization, or by any charge geographical or otherwise, in the location of the Company herein. The Company agrees an Agreement has been entered into, as a result of which this Agreement shall continue to be binding on the person or persons or any business organization continuing the business. It is the intent of the parties that this Agreement shall remain in effect for the full term thereof, regardless of any kind of change, of any kind, in management, location, form of business, organization or ownership.
ARTICLE 17 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
17.1	Any complaint, disagreement, or difference of opinion between the parties hereto concerning the interpretation, application and operation, or any alleged violation of the terms of this Agreement, shall be considered a grievance.
All grievances not presented to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days from the date the grievance arose, shall be waived.
It is further agreed that fourteen (14) calendar days shall apply with respect to
28
grievances concerning the dismissal of any employee.
First Step:
The employee shall discuss the matter with his or her immediate superior, or may request the Shop Steward or Union Representative to do so on his or her behalf.
If the Employee is not satisfied with this settlement, then:
Second Step:
Grievances shall be presented in writing and shall clearly set forth the grievance and the contentions of the aggrieved party following which the Union Representative or Representatives, and the Labour Relations Representative of the Company shall meet and in good faith shall endeavor to settle the grievance submitted. If a satisfactory settlement c^mot be reached, or if the party fails to meet the other party within fourteen (14) days of receiving the written grievance, either party may, by written notice served on the other require submission of the grievance to a Board of Arbitration. Such Board to be established in the manner provided in Article 18 of this Agreement.
17.2	The record of any disciplinary action shall not be referred to or used against an employee at any time after eighteen (18) months following such action.
ARTICLE 18 - BOARD OF ARBITRATION
18.1	The grievance may be referred to a single arbitrator by notice in writing to the other party within thirty (30) calendar days of the decision in the second step of the grievance procedure.
The party requesting arbitration shall notify the other party by specifying a list of three (3) names it is willing to accept as a single Arbitrator. 'The party receiving the notice shall either accept one ( l) of the persons suggested to act as the Arbitrator, or if it does not accept any of the persons, notify the other party accordingly and send a list of three (3) names it is willing to accept as a single Arbitrator. If the parties are unable to agree within twenty (20) working days after the request for arbitration on a person to act as a single Arbitrator, either party may request in writing that the Director of Mediation Services of the Province of Alberta appoint a single Arbitrator.
18.2	As an alternative to the above, the parties may agree to the following:
The Board of Arbitration shall be composed of three (3) members and shall be established as follows:
Within ten (10) working days (excluding Sundays and holidays) following receipt of such notice, the Company and the Union shall each select a representative to serve on the Board of Arbitration. The Representative so selected shall meet within five (5) days (excluding Sundays and holidays) after they have both been
29
selected, and choose an additional member to act as Chairman. In the event of failure of the nominees of the Union and the Company, to agree upon a Chairman within five (5) days as specified, the Minister or Deputy Minister of Labour shall be immediately requested to name a third member who shall act as Chairman of the Board of Arbitration. Within five (5) days of the appointment of the impartial Chairman, the Board of Arbitration shall sit to consider the matter in dispute and shall render a decision within fourteen (14) days after its first session. It is understood and agreed that the time limits as set forth herein may be altered by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
No person shall serve on the Board of Arbitration who is involved or directly interested in the controversy under consideration. Grievances submitted to an Arbitration Board shall be in writing and shall clearly specify the nature of the issue. In reaching its decision the Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with the power to change, modify or alter this Agreement in any of its parts, but may, however, interpret its provisions. The expense of the impartial Chairman shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union, unless otherwise provided by law. The findings and the decisions of the Board of Arbitration shall be binding and enforceable on all parties. A decision of the majority of the Board of Arbitration shall be deemed to be a decision of the Board.
ARTICLE 19 - GU^ARANTEED WORK WEEK
19.1	This Section shall apply only to those employees who are permanent full-time employees of the Company.
For the purpose of this Section “full-time permanent employees” shall mean any employees employed on a full-time basis for a period of time exceeding three (3) consecutive months.
Where an employee entitled to the guaranteed work week is called to work during the week they shall be entitled to receive pay not less than on the following basis each year:
January 1st to May 31st receive thirty (30) hours pay per week; June 1st to December 31st - thirty-six (36) hours pay per week; regardless of the fact that such employee may not work for that many hours.
Effective April 1st, 2013, guarantee hours will be averaged on a two week pay period. When an employee’s working hours fall below the minimum ^^^tee, they shall be calculated and paid on a proportionate basis as sixty-four (64) hours of pay at his/her regular rate in each payroll period or pay in lieu of work for the period January 1st to May 31st and seventy-two (72) hours of pay at his/her regular rate in each payroll period or pay in lieu of work for the period June 1st to December 3 lst.
The following provisions shall apply in this regard:
30
a]	The Company will adjust employees in proportion to the work available or expected to be available. To provide such regular employees with ^^^teed hours of work, the Company shall be free to distribute within departments and to transfer employees from one dep^artment to another, reasonable consideration being given to seniority, ability and to any extreme change in physical working conditions.
b]	The Company expects all employees will perform conscientiously, whatever task may be assigned to them in their respective dep^toents. If any employee refuses to perform the work assigned
to them, the Company shall be absolved from any guarantee in respect of the work performed during that week.
c]	The guarantee shall be the same for weeks in which one (l) of the eleven (1 1) Statutory Holidays occur as in other weeks, the pay received for said Statutory Holiday shall be regarded as part of the guarantee.
d]	Any employee who is absent from work after having started to work on a week which would entitle them to receive the guaranteed work week, shall have their gu^antee reduced by the time so lost.
e]	Any employee who is laid off in excess of one (1) month is not eligible for the guaranteed work week provision in the week of recall.
fJ	^there overtime or other Premiwn paid hours are worked they shall
be computed as, one hour worked is one hour of the guarantee only.
19.2	Hours Of Work.
The Company and the Union acknowledge that the changing business conditions may require a change to the hours of work as set out in the collective agreement. On the basis of the foregoing, the Company and the Union agree that a revision to the hours of work shall be negotiated in the event a change is required to the basic work week or to implement a six or seven day processing schedule without the penalty of overtime rates
ARTICLE 20 - TERMINATION AND RENEWAL CLAUSE
This Agreement shall be effective from April 1, 2012, until March 31, 2015 and shall remain in force thereafter from year to year, but either party may not less than sixty (60) days before expiry or renewal date of such Agreement, give notice in writing to the other party to terminate such Agreement or to negotiate a revision thereof.
31
ARTICLE 21
21.1	Live Haul Drivers
The hours of work, including rest periods, for Live Haul Drivers are as scheduled by the Company to complete their trips, subject to legislation regulating driving.
The basic work day may have varied ^starting and quitting times, and the basic work week is Sunday to Thursday inclusive.
On the first working day of the week, or the week day following the general holiday, early starts before 12:00 noon are paid at the rate of one and one-half ( 1&112) times the trip rate and early starts between 12:00 pm and 2:00 pm are paid at the rate of one and one-q^uter (1&1/4) times the trip rate.
Overtime will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (I&1/2) times the regular hourly rate for all hours over eight (8) hours per day, provided the Live Haul Driver is completing regular hourly rate duties.
All work perfonned on days of rest shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1&1/2) times the regular hourly rate provided the Live Haul Driver is completing regular hourly rate duties and paid at the rate of one and one-half (1&1/2) times the trip rate provided the Live Haul Driver is completing a trip.
Regular hourly rate duties will be defined as: wait times, scaling, truck repairs, breakdowns, legislated down time and loading (only ifloading is over one and one-half (1&1/2) hours/load). The parties understand that there may be similar type situations not covered on the list. The parties will meet and resolve those issues, consistent with current practice.
If a Live Haul Driver is asked to stay overnight to switch the loads, eight (8) hours of regular hourly rate per night will be paid.
Time recording: The Company agrees to provide time recording log books to enable drivers to record their hours worked. Employees shall record their own time.
Statutory Pay is calculated on gross earnings, minus overtime, in the previous calendar year divided by 2080 hours and applied to an eight (8) hour day. Statutory Pay will be calculated by January 31s1 of each year and identified to Live Haul Drivers, upon the employees’ request.
Vacation Pay for each week of vacation shall be computed as two percent (2%) of the employees’ total gross earnings in the previous annive^ary year. Vacation Pay will be calculated in the month following the date of hire and identified to Live Haul Drivers, upon the employees’ request.
32
Sick pay will be calculated on gross learnings, minus overtime, in the previous calendar year divided by 2080 hours and applied to an eight (8) hour day.
Live Haul Drivers shall be enrolled in the same benefits as other employees under Article 11.
Any trip rates for new routes will be established in accordance with the formula in Appendix “B”.
ARTICLE 22
Article 22.1 Long Haul Drivers
The hours of work, including rest periods, for Long Haul Drivers are as scheduled by the Company to complete their trips, subject to legislation regulating driving.
The basic work week is Monday to Friday inclusive. Overtime will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (I & 1/2) times the regular hourly rate for all hours over eight (8) hours per day, provided the Long Haul Driver is completing regular hourly rate duties.
For Long Haul Drivers working a Compressed Work Week their hours of work shall be forty (40) hours per week, consisting of four (4) days of ten (10) hours each. Overtime in excess of the compressed work week schedule will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1&1/2) times the regular hourly rate, provided the Long Haul Driver is completing regular hourly rate duties.
All work performed on days of rest shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1&112) times the regular hourly rate provided the Long Haul Driver is completing regular hourly rate duties and paid at the rate of one and one-half (1&1/2) times the trip rate provided the Long Haul Driver is completing a trip.
Regular hourly rate duties will be defined as: wait times, scaling, truck repairs, breakdowns, legislated down time and loading. The parties understand that there may be similar type situations not covered on the list. The parties will meet and resolve those issues, consistent with current practice.
Time recording: The Company agrees to provide time recording log books to enable drivers to record their hours worked. Employees shall record their own time.
Statutory Pay is calculated on gross e^aings, minus overtime, in the previous calendar year divided by 2080 hours and applied to an eight (8) hour day. Statutory Pay will be calculated by January 31st of each year and identified to Long Haul Drivers, upon the employees’ request.
33
Vacation Pay for each week of vacation shall be computed as two percent (2%) of the employees’ total gross endings in the previous anniversary year. Vacation Pay will be calculated in the month following the date of hire and identified to Live Haul Drivers, upon the employees’ request.
Sick pay will be calculated on gross e^arnings, minus overtime, in the previous calendar year divided by 2080 hours and applied to an eight (8) hour day.
Long Haul Drivers shall be enrolled in the same benefits as other employees under Article
11.
Any trip rates for new routes will be established in accordance with the formula in Appendix “C”.
FOR THE COMPANY
E.l pe'I
Jib
54-c.m- W*'^
9~~
”,

APPENDIX A-WAGES
WAGES:	Effective Date	April 1,	April 1,
Pl	of Ratification	2013	2014
Starting Rate	15.30	15.75	16.20
After 3 Months	15.80	16.25	16.70
After 6 Months	16.30	16.75	17.20
After 9 Months	16.80	17.25	17.70
After 12 Months (Base Rate)	18.00	18.45	18.90
P2			
Graders	18.00	18.45	18.90
Rotomatic Operators	18.00	18.45	18.90
P3			
Evisceration Line	18.13	18.58	19.03
P4			
Assemble/sort orders	18.58	19.03	19.48
Grinder Operator	18.58	19.03	19.48
Parts Sorter (BBQ)	18.58	19.03	19.48
Power Jack Operator	18.58	19.03	19.48
Saw Operators	18.58	19.03	19.48
Scale Operators	18.58	19.03	19.48
Truck and Crate Wash	18.58	19.03	19.48
Tub Washer	18.58	19.03	19.48
Turkey from tank to line	18.58	19.03	19.48
Turkey Trussing (Cryovac)	18.58	19.03	19.48
Utility person	18.58	19.03	19.48
Vacuum Operator	18.58	19.03	19.48
PS			
Freezer hand/forklift Op.	18.73	19.18	19.63
Receiver-Shipper	18.73	19.18	19.63
Truck Driver	18.73	19.18	19.63
Sanitation Person	18.73	19.18	19.63
P6			
Starting Rate	17.65	18.10	18.55
Poultry Killer (After 6 months)	19.40	19.85	20.30
Live Hangers (After 6 months)	19.40	19.85	20.30
P7			
Truck Driver (Class 1)	22.15	22.60	23.05
APPENDIX A -WAGES
WAGES:	Effective Date	April 1,	April 1,
Ml	of Ratification	2013	2014
Maintenance Worker M2	20.25	20.70	21.15
Maintenance Mechanic M3	22.75	23.20	23.65
Journeyman Tradesperson M4	35.72	36.17	36.62
5th Class Stationary Engineer M5	26.30	26.75	27.20
4th Class Stationary Engineer M6	28.30	28.75	29.20
3rd Class Stationary Engineer	35.72	36.17	36.62
APPENDIX "B"
LIVEHAUL RATES FOR TURKEY AND FOWL
PRODUCER	Location	Travel Time (1 way)	KM (return)	Apr 1, Apr 1, Apr 1, 2012 2013 2014		
571874 AB Ltd - Gem Poultry	Gem/Bassano	■ 5.00	838	$ 254.65	$ 256.91	$ 265.40
571874 AB LTD - WESTERN	Three Hills	3.50	540	$ 198.03	$ 200.29	$ 205.80
Abbotsford, BC (from Edmonton)	Abbotsford, BC	12.00	2394	$ 703.89	$ 709.75	$ 737.40
ARCO	Linden	2.50	576	$ 204.87	$ 207.13	$ 213.00
ARENDS , Ben	Devon	0.50	89	$ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
BAEGEMAN	lnnsfail		408	$ 172.95	$ 175.21	$ 179.40
BAERG, Kerry	Linden	1.75	250	$ 142.93	$ 145.19	$ 147.80
Blue River, BC (from Edmonton)	Blue River, BC	6.50	1522	$ 444.29	$ 444.29	$ 444.29
BRANT COLONY	Brant	4.00	842	$ 255.41	$ 257.67	$ 266 20
Calgary (from Edmonton)	Calgary	3.50	640	$ 21703	$ 219.29	$ 225.80
CARLSON	Maleb	6.50	1234	$ 329.89	$ 332.15	$ 344.60
CHINOOKRIDGE	Linden	2.50	567	$ 203.16	$ 205.42	$211.20
CIRCLE H	Dalmeny, SK	5.25	1092	$ 302.91	$305.17	$ 316.20
CLOVER FOUR	Ponoka	1.50	184	$ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
COTE -Dennis (Calico)	Coaldale	6.00	1113	$ 306.90	$ 309.16	$ 320.40
COUNTRYVIEW	Ponoka	1.50	266	$ 145.97	$ 148.23	$ 151.00
CRAWFORD, Jim			286	$ 149.77	$ 152.03	$ 155.00
CULLUM - Stuart/Steve	Three Hills	3.50	540	$ 198.03	$ 200.29	$ 205.80
DEL & DALE	Linden	2.50	568	$ 203.35	$ 205.61	$211.40
DESHOUX, Roger	Pickardville	0.75	170	$ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
DOWHAN, Mary & John	Rochester	2.00	180	$ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
F&M FARMS	Rochester	1.50		$ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
FEATHER FANTASY	Wetaskiwin	150	270	$ 146.73	$ 14899	$ 151.80
FEATHERCREST/Cullum, Dwight	Three Hills	3.50	540	$ 198.03	$ 200.29	$ 205.80
FORTYMILE	Bow Island	6.50	1220	$ 327.23	$ 329.49	$ 341.80
GILCHIRIST Farms	Wainwright, AB	2.50	456	$ 18207	$ 184.33	$189.00
HAPPY VALLEY	Linden	175	250	$ 142.93 '	$ 145.19	$ 147.80
HEPBURN POULTRY	Hepburn, SK	6.00	1050	$ 294.93	$ 297.19	$ 307.80
HILLCREST	Bruno. SK	6.00	1248	$ 332.55	$ 334.81	$ 347.40
HOFMAN POULTRY - Auke	Linden	2.50	568	$ 203.35	$ 205.61	$211.40
HOMELAND	Fahler	4.50	855	$ 257.88	$ 260.14	$ 268.80
IJTSMA, Klaas	Airdrie	3.00	583	$ 206.20	$ 208.46	$ 214.40
IJTSMA, Willem	Rochester	1.25	205	$ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
JENSEN, Larry	Morrin	3.50	570	$ 203.73	$ 205.99	$211.80
JONI FARMS	Dalmeny, SK	5.50	1088	$ 302.15	$ 304.41	$ 315.40
K&C FARMS (Penner)	Ardrossan	0.50	79	$ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
KAMLAH	Didsbury		520	$ 194.23	$ 196.49	$ 201.80
KASA	New Norway	150	287	$ 149.96	$ 152.22	$ 155.20
KOFO (DeKONING)	Ardrossan	0.50	85	$ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
LANCO	Petrofska Bridge, SK	5.50	1052	$ 295.31	$ 297.57	$ 308.20
LANGHAM			1000	$ 285.43	$ 287.69	$ 297.80
LED - Doell	Hobbema	150	274	$ 147.49	$ 149.75	$ 152.60
37
Lloydminster (from Edmonton)	Lloydminster	2.50	504j $191.19	$ 193.45	$ 198.60
LUDLAGE	Elk Island	2.50	245| $ 186.30	$ 186.30	$ 186.30
LUTGEN, Wayne	Alcomdale	0.75	129 ]$ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
LUTGEN, Wayne	Pickardville	0.75	174| $ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
MacMILLAN COLONY	Cayley	4.00	842| $ 255.41	$ 257.67	$ 266.20
MALDA, Jim & Ruth	Ridge Valley	1.00	195] $ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
METZLER	Coaldale	6.00	1113 $ 306.90	$ 309.16	$ 320.40
MIALTA COLONY	Vulcan	4.50	903] $ 267.00	$ 269.26	$ 278.40
MUNTZ, Gary	Vegreville	0.75	244] $ 141.79	$ 144.05	$ 146.60
NANNINGA, Mark	Neerlandia	1.50	287| $ 149.96	$ 152.22	$ 155.20
NARWOOD (Blackwell)	Hobbema	1.50	279] $ 148.44	$ 150.70	$153.60
North Battleford	N. Battleford	4.25	789] $ 245.34	$ 247.60	$ 255.60
NYMEYER	Coaldale	5.50	1113 $ 306.90	$ 309.16	$ 320.40
OLSON, Duane	Drumheller	4.00	588] $ 207.15	$ 209.41	$ 215.40
OLSON, Garry	Hobbema	1.50	274| $ 147.49	$ 149.75	$ 152.60
P&S FARMS - Vredegoer	Shaunessy	6.00	1068] $298.35	$ 300.61	$311.40
PENNER-HUTCHENSON	Ardrossan	0.75	j $ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
PENNER- Ray	Stettler	2.75	450] $ 180.93	$ 183.19	$ 187 80
PENNER, Dave & Karen	Glenbush, SK	4.50	996 $ 284.67	$ 286.93	$ 297.00
PIKELAKE			1285]$ 339.58	$ 341.84	$ 354.80
PINEPARK	Opal	0.75	122] $ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
POLAK	Rochester	1.50	218 $137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
PINE VALLEY (MENT 2B)	Devon	0.75	87| $ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
R&M POULTRY	Redwater	150	107 $ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
RAEYSON	Gibbons	0.50	78] $ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
RANGE 12	Ardrossan	0.75	80| $137.23	$139.49	$ 141.80
RED WILLOW COLONY			406$ 172.57	$ 174.83	$ 179.00
RIETVELD	Tofield	1.00	130] $ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
RIVERBEND	Waldheim, SK	5.50	1056]$ 310.90	$ 310.90	$ 310.90
Saskatoon (from Edmonton)	Saskatoon, SK	5.00	1060j $ 296.83	$ 299.09	$ 309.80
SCHMIDT, John	Tofield	100	140] $ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
SIEMENS, Reg	Linden	2.50	250] $ 142.93	$ 145.19	$ 147.80
SIEMENS, Reg	Linden	2.00	250!$ 142.93	$ 145.19	$ 147.80
SILVER SPRING			576i $ 204.87	$ 207.13	$ 213.00
SILVERCREEK COLONY	New Norway	1.50	256] $ 144.07	$ 146.33	$ 149.00
SONRISE	Linden	2.50	568] $ 203.35	$ 205.61	$ 211.40
SOUTHLAND	Linden	2.50	568| $ 203.35	$ 205.61	$ 21140
SPRINGSIDE COLONY	Brooks	4.25	875] $ 261.68	$ 263.94	$ 272.80
SPRUCEHILL	Hepburn, SK	6.00	1056$ 296.07	$ 298.33	$ 309.00
STONEHILL	, SK	6.00	1050]$ 294.93	$ 297.19	$ 307.80
TERAD	Ferintosh	1.50	250] $ 142.93	$ 145.19	$ 147.80
THIMER	Gibbons	1.00	63] $137.23	$139.49	$ 141.80
TIEMSTRA	Neerlandia	2.00	285] $ 149.58	$ 151.84	$ 154.80
TOEWS, Darryl	SK		1958]$ 467.45	$ 469.71	$ 489.40
TOEWS, Ray	SK		1240]$ 331.03	$ 333.29	$ 345.80
TOWLE	lnnisfail	2.75	412| $ 173.71	$ 175.97	$ 180.20
TURKEYLANE	Stalwart, SK	7.00	1403] $ 362.00	$ 364.26	$ 378.40
TWILIGHT COLONY	Fahler	4.50	855| $ 257.88	$ 260.14	$ 268.80
UNRUH, Dwayne	Saskatoon, SK	5.50	1285] $ 339.58	$ 341.84	$ 354.80
38
VANDERRIJT	Bowden	2.25	370	$ 165.73	$ 167.99	$ 171.80
VELDHUIZEN	Legal	0.75	85	$ 137.23	$139.49	$ 141.80
VIEWEST	Didsbury	2.50	518	$ 193.85	$ 196.11	$ 201.40
WARKENTIN, Herman	Drake, SK		1380	$ 357.63	$ 359.89	$ 373.80
WELSHMOOR	Darwell	1.25	171	$ 137.23	$ 139.49	$ 141.80
WHITELAKE COLONY	Ft. McLeod	5.50	978	$ 281.25	$ 283.51	$ 293.40
WlERSMA	Cudworth, SK	6.00	1296	$ 341.67	$ 343.93	$ 357.00
WILLOW CREEK	Monarch		1143	$ 312.60	$314.86	$ 326.40
WILLOWDALE	New Norway	2.00	300	$ 152.43	$ 154.69	$ 157.80
WINTERS, Darrell	Dalemead	5.00	731	$ 234.32	$ 236.58	$ 244.00
WOODEND	Linden, AB		221	$ 137.42	$ 139.68	$ 142.00
WYNYARD (370.20 + plus 8 hrs)	Wynyard, SK	7.25	1458	$ 526.05	$ 53191	$ 550.20
ALL RATES INCLUDE TARPING, DRIVERS ARE RESPONSIBLE TO TARP LOADS USING THEIR OWN DISCRETION
TRUCK WASH (ONCE PER WEEK) $30
B - TRAIN WILL BE PAID AT THE LISTED RATE PLUS $25 INCLUDING TARPING
Regular Hourly Rate:	$19.20	$19.65	$20.10
39
APPENDIX "C"
LONGHAUL RATES
PRODUCER	Location	Travel Time (1 way)	KM (return)	.Apr 1, 2012	.Apr 1, 2013	Apr 1, 2014
Calgary (from Edmonton)	Calgary	3.50	640	$ 217.03	$ 219.29	$ 225.40
TRUCK WASH (ONCE PER WEEK) $30 Trailer hook up $10/trailer Regular Hourly Rate:
$ 19.20 $ 19.65 $ 20.10
WAGE CLASSIFICATIONS Pl, P2, P3. These positions will not require an employee to lift in excess of thirty five (35)pounds at any one time during the performance of their duties.
An employee performing Job Trainer will be paid a $0.50 per hour premium for job - training hours assigned by the Company.
An employee performing ReliefwiU be paid a $0.50 per hour premium for relief hours assigned by the Company.
Note: The rate of pay for employees in the Apprenticeship program will be the percentage of the Jo^eyman rate as specified by the Dep^artment of Apprenticeship and Industrial Training for the Province of Alberta.
Any employee who has completed in excess of six (6) months service and who is assigned to a classified position, shall receive the classified rate of pay for all hours worked on the Job.
40
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between:
Lilydale Co-operative Limited Edmonton, Alberta
And:
United Food and Commercial Workers Local 1118 Edmonton, Alberta
RE:	Scheduling of Hours and Weekly Guarantee
It is agreed that when scheduling work the normal workweek will be considered as forty (40) hours per week for Full time employees.
The weekly guarantee is considered to be a minimum number of hours payable and is not the intent of the Company to schedule the guaranteed hours as maximum number of hours.
When the number of available hours is reduced for an extended period of time, the Company will make reasonable effort to allow senior employees the opportunity to maximize their scheduled ho^ including the adjustment of staff levels and/or gang adjustments, providing it does not afect any of the production standards.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY

Pelletier
Signed this 9(b day of July, 2003.
41
June 2, 2011
Letter of Understanding Re: Edmonton North Plant Sanitation Department
•	The Company agrees that within the Sanitation department, employees may choose an area which will be their designated '"home” area lo which they will report to work each day. This will be the area of the plant they will sanitize daily and will be accountable for.
•	The selection of their "home" area will be done by seniority.
•	Rotation into other areas will only ocur when;
There is a business need, employees will be assigned to otherareas of the plant by management choice.
There is an employee shortage, due to vacation, illness, recruitment or training, employees may be assigned to other areas of the plant by management choice.
•	Should an employee leave the employment of the Company, choice of that ’"home” area will be re-selected based on seniority.
•	Employees will complete a Job Task list at the end of each shift, acknowledging they have completed all job tasks and that the area has been sanitized to HACCP Regulations. This list will be signed by the employee and handed in to the Supervisor each shift.
•	Should an area be found in an unacceptable state, or failure to complete all job tasks on the required list, employees will be held accountable and corrective action will be taken.
In Agreement
John Ventura -For the Union
Ken DiMauro -For the Company Karen Gugulyn -For the Company
fiwy \JJ*Z
Firoz Udat - Union Representative
Zemichael Kifle - Sanitation Supervisor
42
Maintenance Wage Survey Edmonton
In order to establish rates of pay for the Maintenance Ticketed Journeyman the Company and the Union will choose 10 relevant labour market competitors for the purpose of conducting an annual maintenance wage survey. The purpose of the survey is to ensure that the Maintenance Ticketed Journeyman, employed, are competitively paid so that the Edmonton Plant attracts and retains its skilled maintenance workforce.
The following criteria will be used to select the companies to survey:
1.	Companies in Industries that are in direct competition for skilled trades within the City of Edmonton, but may also include companies which operate outside the immediate geographic area
2.	A selected Company must be able to verify and validate the wage infonnation.
3.	The selection of Companies will not be used for the purpose of manipulating the outcome of the survey.
4.	The companies surveyed will employ certified skilled trades perfonning work consistent with that certification.
The positions of the required licensed skilled trades, as detennined by the Company, will be benchmarked at each of the identified companies surveyed. The Highest and Lowest rates will be removed and the remaining rates averaged. If this average is more than 3% above the Company rate for the same position, then the Company rate will be adjusted to this average.
In order to continue to receive Maintenance Wage Survey rate, the respective employees must continue to commit to upgrading their skills to ensure they are working towards proper certification in the jobs they are perfonning.
The s^ey will be completed in November of each year and any adjustments will be effective the first pay period in January of the following year.
Any rate adjustment as a result of the Maintenance Wage Survey will be in addition to the negotiated increase.
43
LOU - Temporary Foreign Workers
Between:
Lilydale Inc. Edmonton, Alberta
And
United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 1118 Edmonton, Alberta
Re: Temporary Foreign Workers
1.	For Temporary Foreign Workers (“TFWs”) employed with Lilydale as of August 8, 2012 and TFWs hired after August 8, 2012 that are in Canada with a valid work permit at the time of application, Lilydale will, in good faith and as soon as the TFWs qualify, submit the TFWs to the Alberta Immigrant Nominee Program (“AINP”), or such similar program that may replace the AINP in the future, with a copy to the Union.
i.	Lilydale will also explain to the TFWs the proces under the AINP and for applying for permanent residency.
ii.	Lilydale wiU also assist the TFWs with the scheduling of al interviews required by ^AINP.
2.	If in the future Lilydale becomes interested in a TFW program, it agrees to do the following:
a.	Submit an application, and take all other necessary steps, to secure a Labour Market Opinion ("LMO”) on behalf of the TFWs.
i. In this regard, the Union agrees that it will not unreasonably withhold their consent on any application for a LMO.
b.	When recruiting TFWs from outside of Canada as part of the recruitment program, Lilydale will:
i.	Arrange and pay for the TFWs’ travel from their place of permanent residenee to Lilydale’s work location in Canada and return transportation should their work permit expire, or their permanent residency application be denied as per HRSDC requirements;
ii.	Assist the TFWs to obtain Alberta Health Care coverage;
44
iii.	Provide the TFWs with, and pay for, private health insurance while the TFW’s wait for Alberta Health Care coverage. If required, obtain or prepay for medical services allowing for deductions off employees’ cheque for the medical services;
iv.	Arrange for initial affordable housing for TFW’s (with rent that falls within government guidelines and includes utilities except for cable and telephone);
v.	Assess the TFWs’ language proficiency and, if necessary, provide ESL education (in line with AINP requirements); and
vi.	Explain to the TFWs all deductions (Taxes, CPP, EI, Union Dues, etc.), rates of pay progresion and immigration requirements prior to the employment contract being signed by the worker.
c.	As soon as the TFWs qualify, but not later than nine (9) months after commencement of work in Alberta as a TFW, Lilydale will submit the TFWs to the AINP.
i.	Lilydale will also explain to the TFW’s the proces
under the	and for appfying for permanent
residency.
ii.	Lilydale will ialso a^ist the TFW’s with the scheduling of all interviews required by
d.	If the government amends the Temporary Foreign Worker Program or the ^^^, Lilydale commits to complying with all amendments instituted by the government and this Program shall be o^m for ^^ew. Wages, benefits, working conditions, etc, shall be in ^xordanee with the Agreement
e.	Lilydale will reeruit temporary foreign workers with the suitability and criteria of the AINP in mind. Lilydale will use best efforts to recruit only those TFWs who have a vested intent in the plant.
f.	The Company and the Union agree that any disputes
regarding the interpretation, application, or alleged violation of this LOU will be referred to Joint Labour Management meetings and if not resolved, grievance arbitration.
Dated this ;2.'7 day of
For the Union
For the Company
V5S f6	.e
45
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between:	Lilydale Inc., a Sofina Foods Company
Operating as Edmonton North Plant ("Company"}
And:
United Food and Commercial Workers Local 1118 ("Union")
These amendments shall be incorporated into the Collective Agreement between the above parties.
Effective January 1, 2013 there shall be a new Journeyman/Tradesperson wage rate with a starting wage of $37.70.
All other wage increases shall continue as per the terms of the Collective Agreement.
s1GNED TH1s
13____________day of 5a
, 2013.
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY: