P S< H FOODS HANOVER, ONTARIO
UNION AGREEMENT
1988 - 1990
00280 (04)
INDEX
ARTICLE i ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3 .ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5
R T I C L E 6 ARTICLE 7
ARTYCXt 8
ARTICLE 9
ARTICLE 10
ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12
ARTICLE 13 ART YClE 14 ARTICLE 15
ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTYCCfc. 19
EXHIBIT "A"
EXHIBIT "B" . EXHIBIT "C" EXHIBIT "D"
PAGE NO;
PURPOSE
RECOGNITION
MANAGEMENT
UNION SECURITY
SLOWDOWNS AND INTERRUPT ION OF PRODUCT 1 ON
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
HOURS OR WORK, OVERTIME
AND HOLIDAY PAY
PAY tTG"R hUl 1UWYB NOT ‘WURFTEU
S I CKNES8 AND ACC I DENT
VACATIONS
SENIORITY
SAFETY AND HEALTH
GENERAL
SEPARATION ALLOWANCES WAGES
LEAVE OF ABSENCE CREDITED SERVICE BEREAVEMENT DURATION OF AGREEMENT
SUPPLEMENTARY COMPREHENSIVE MEDICAL., PLAN
DUES, CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION JOB CLASSIFICATION DENTAL I NSUmVC'E F'iLAN GROUP LIFE INSURANCE BENEFIT
1	—	2
	2	
2	-	4
	5	
6	-	9
9	-	13
13	-	15
15	-	20
21	-	25
25	-	31
31	-	32
"3*2	-	36
36	-	38
38	-	40
40		
41		43
43	—	44
46
47
48
49 - 50 51
ACCEPTABLE MEDICAL EVIDENCE FORM
AGREEMENT MADE BY AND
BETWEEN:
P S< 1-1 FOODS
478 Fourteenth Street,
Hanover, Ontari o.
(hereinafter called "the Company")
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL. UNION LOCAL 1755 A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.,	.
(being Plant employees of P & H FOODS Poultry Processing Plant, 478 Fourteenth Strest, Hanover , On t. aria)
(hereinafter called "the Union")
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	It is the intent of this Agreement to .maintain a harmonious'relationship between the Company and its employees and to provide an amicable method of settling grievances which may possibly arise, as well as to set forth condition of employment, rates of pay and hours of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognises the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees of its poultry processing plant, 478 Fourteenth Street, Hanover, Ontario, save and except
foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, office staff, sales staff, fieldmen arid hatchery staff.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT
3.01	The management of the plant and the direction of the working force, including the right to hire, promote and demote employees, to suspend or discharge for just cause, to assign and reassign employees to jobs, to transfer employees within the plant,, to increase and decrease the working force, to determine product to be handled, produced or manufactured, the schedules of production and the methods, processes, and means of production or handling, are vested exclusively in the Company, provided this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against any employees or the Union or for the purpose of avoiding the effects of the other provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY
4.01	The Company agrees that, subject at compliance with the procedure hereinafter set out, it shall be a condition of employment that any employee who., is a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member shall maintain such membership during the term of this agreement or any renewal thereof. An employee shall have satisfied the requirements of this clause so long as he pays his regular monthly Union dues.
4.05	It shall be a condition of employment effective the date of ratification of this Agreement that present employees who are not members of the Union and any future employee who has completed his probationary period will be required to sign an authorisation form as prescribed in Exhibit "A".
4.06	A written authorization for the deduction of the amount of monthly membership Union dues pursuant to Clause 4.04 above shall be irrevocable by an employee in the bargaining unit.
4.07	The Plant Chairman shall be furnished with the name and address of each new employee and each employee who is to be laid off or terminated. .
4.09 It shall be a condition of employment effective the date of ratification of this Agreement, that the present, bargaining unit employees who are not members of the Union shall sign an application for membership card and pay the required initiation fee, and any future- employees shall apply for membership and pay the initiation upon completing their probationary period, and the Company agrees to secure the required signature, and to deduct the initiation fee and to submit the same to the Union Office.
4
ARTICLE 5 - SLOWDOWNS AND INTERRUPTION OF PRODUCTION
5.01	It is agreed that the Union and its members
individually and collectively will not, during the term of this Agreement, cause, permit or take part, in any strike, slowdown or other curtailment or restriction of production or interference with work in or about. the Company 's plant or premi ses. The Company reserves the right to discipline any employee taking part in any violation of this provi si on of thi s Agreement . There shall be no lockout by the Company during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6 - CR I EVANCE PROCEDURE
6,01	Should differences arise between the union and its
members and the Company as t a the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including whether or not the difference is arbitrable, every such difference shall be submitted by the aggr i eved employee to adjustment in the manner and order provided in the gr i evance procedure set forth below.
6.02	To facilitate the orderly handling upon
Union of cases arising under this Article, designate a Plant Grievance Committee composed representatives.
the part of the the Un i on may
of two emp 1 oyee
5
6.03	It is mutually agreed that the parties shall adhere
faithfully to the following procedure:
1.	The aggrieved employee will present his complaint to the foreman of his department and may be accompanied by a member of the Plant Grievance Committee if he so chooses. If the employee sees fit to handle his own grievance the foreman will notify a member of the Plant Grievance Committee of the Settlement, of the grievance.
2.	In the event a settlement is not achieved in the first step, the employee will present, his complaint to the Plant Superintendent, and may be accompanied in so doing by the Plant Grievance Committee, if he so chooses.
3.	In the event a settlement is not achieved in the second step, the Plant Grievance Committee (accompanied if it likes by an outside Union represeritati ve) may present the grievance in writing to the Manager or his designated represeritati ve.
4.	In the- event a settlement is not reached in the third
step, the grievance may• be referred to a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall be bound by the terms of this Agreement. The Board shall consist of three members, one nominated by the Union, one nominated by the Company, and the Chairman appointed by such two nominees.	The costs and expenses of the Board of
Arbitration shall be borne equally by the Company and
6
the Union except that each of the parties will bear costs and expenses of the nominee appointed by it. Neither party will be responsible for the expense of the witnesses called by the other.
In thd event that such two nominees.are unable to agree on a Chairman, then the Chairman shall be the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario, or such person as the Minister of Labour shall appoint. The decision of the Board shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union and the employees.
6.04	Any employee who is dismissed for any reason whatsoever and feels that he? or she has been unjustly dealt with, shall have the right, within seventy-two (72) hours from the receipt of such notice of dismissal, to notify the Union and the Company in writing that he or she desires the dismissal in question to constitute a grievance subject to grievance procedure. If, subsequently, subject to Clause 6.09, it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, lie or she shall be reinstated in his or her former position and shall be compensated for all money lost at his or her regular rate of -pay less any money he or she earned in other employment.
6.05	A grievance affecting the rate of pay of an individual shall be handled in accordance with the grievance procedure and is subsequent settlement results in rates of any pay being increased, the effective date of such increases shall be decided
upon as
a part of the decision, but such date shall not be prior to the date on which the grievance was presented.
6.06	Employee Union representatives will be allowed the necessary time off (with pay in the first three steps only of the Grievance Procedure set forth in Clause 6.03 for time lost during hours worked by his or her gang including any applicable overtime penalty) to attend grievance meetings with the Company designated representatives for the purpose of settling grievances. If it is necessary for Union representatives to leave their jobs in order to handle a grievance with the Company representatives they shall not leave their jobs without first securing permission to do so from their respective supervisor, provided that the supervisor will grant such permission as promptly as it. is possible? without unduly interfering with production.
6.07	Wo employee shall be suspended or discharged without written notice being given for such action, with a copy being given to the Chief Steward.
6.08	The Company agrees that whenever an interview is held with an employee that becomes part of his record regarding his work or conduct, a steward or local union official will be present as a witness, provided a steward or local union official is on the plant premises. The employee may request that the steward or local union official leave the meeting.
8
6.09
Proven theft shall be
;i ust
cause
for immediate
dismissal, and, the arbitrator or arbitration board shall not have any power to modify or alter such penalty or to substitute any other penalty therefor.
6.10	If any employee is absent for more than three
consecutive working days, without good and proper reason, or, without he or his agent having advised the Company of the reason for such absence prior to the expiration of such three consecutive work day period, he shall be subject to immediate dismissal. Agent, when applied to this Clause 6.10, shall mean spouse, family member or union official.
ARTICLE 7 - HOURS OF WORK. OVERTIME AND HQLIJDAY PAY
7.01	It is recognized by both parties that employees may be required to work in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day or fOrty (40) hours in any one week, but no employee will be required to work an unreasonable number- of hours.
7.02	Additional compensation over and above the regular rate of pay to which a regular employee is otherwise entitled shall be as foilows:
a) Double the regular rate shall be paid to all employees for all hours worked on the following paid holidays:
Mew Year's Day
Labour Day
Goad Fr i day Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Holiday
Thanksgi vi ng Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Remembrance Day
Effective September 29,	1984, in addition to the
aforesaid paid holidays, empl oyees o n the payrol la s of Februar 1st i n	each yeastiall be granted a Monday in February Holiday to
be taken on a plant wide basis. Should t.he plant be required by law to observe any holiday other than the aforesaid paid holidays, such holiday shall replace this Holiday. Where in the absence of such a legal requirement, Heritage Day is commonly observed £*s a holiday by the p>lant's major .customers, then the plant shall observe Heritage Day as a holiday ori a plant wide basis.
All paid holidays shall be observed between Monday and Friday inclusive.
b) Regular rate for all hours worked on a Sunday, 'except where? work regularly falls on Sunday. Employees who must' regularly work on a Sunday shall have a designated day of rest in lieu of Sunday and an employee who must regularly work on a Sunday shall receive as additional compensation one-half times his regular rate for all hours worked on a Sunday provided the employee does not
10
receive any additional compensation pursuant to Article 7 of this Agreement.
One-h alf their regular rate for all hours worked on a Saturday, except where work regularly falls on Saturday. Employees who must regularly work on a Saturday, shall have a day designated as their Saturday and an employee who must regularly work on a Saturday shall receive as additional compensation one-half times his regular rate for all hours worked on a Saturday provided the employee does	Hot.	receive	aiTy additional
compensation pursuant to Article 7 of this Agreement.
Employees shall be paid one-half their regular rate for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) i ■ aday.
Notwithstanding	(d)	above,	sanitation and
mechanical department employees who complete one shift and start a second shift within the same calendar day shall receive the 1/2 time premium in (d) above in respect of hours worked irt excess of 8 hours in each shift only, unless there has been a period of less thaan 12 hours between the completion of the first shift and the commencement of the second shift. Which period is not the result of a mutual agreement between an employee
or employees of the sanitation or mechanical department and the emp 1 oyer
Employees who are requi red to work in excess of thirteen (13) continuous hours shal 1 1 i Paid the irregular rate for such additional hours worked.
7.03 There shal 1 be no accumul at i ng of avert i me premi urns for the Came hours worked, but the hi ghest si ngl e premium shal 1 apply, under the provi si ons of the precedi ng Paragraph 7.02 of this Article.
7.04	Employees ordered to report -for work shall be furnished
four (4) hours’ work, or Pay at their appropri ate rate in 1 i eu of
rel ief for personal need wi 1 1 be provided. It is agreed that a max imum of ten minutes is considered arrp 1 y in ;any half day and when relief operators are not avai l able, relief i i I I i | i i i i I i i i |	| ii i | i I mi I i i i in the thi r-d hour. It is
the foreman 's responsibility to decide the time of the rel ief period and any abuse of i t shall be cause for disciplinary action by the supervi sor.
Employees required to work in excess of nine (9) continuous hours i n any one day will be entitled to one -additional relief period of ten (10) minutes.
12
7.06	Employees shall not be required to work over five (5) hours without a meal period, except that employees may work six (6) hours in order to finish the day's work.
7.07	There will be a one (1) hour lunch period,
ARTICLE 8 ~ PAY FOR HOLIDAYS NOT WORKED
8.01	All regular full-time employees (not including casual
and part-time employees) shall be paid their regular rate of pay •for eight (8) hours on each statutory holiday set for in paragraph 7.02 (a) of Article 7.	Part-time employees (those
employees who work regularly but only for a part of the regular
work day or work week) excluding thereby casual employees, shall be paid for each statutory holiday set forth in paragraph 7.02 (a) of Article 7, an amount equivalent to that percentage of eight (8) hours' pay, at their regular rate, which the total number of hours worked by each part-time employee in the* week in which the holiday occurs is of forty (40) hours.
8.02	For every working hour -(excluding those payable at an overtime rate) or fraction thereof that an employee misses by tardiness or absence on the last working day proceeding, or the next working day following the holiday, he shall have deducted from such holiday pay the sum determined by multiplying the hours he missed by one-half his regular rate. Excused absences of six
unavoidable absences due to illness or causes
13
days or less,
beyond the control of the employee, shall not disqualify an employee from pay for which he would otherwise be qualified under this paragraph.
8.03	If one of the above holidays covered by paragraph 7.02
(a) of Article 7 occurs within an employee's vacation period the employee may elect either of the following:
a)	To receive eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate for such paid holiday in addition to his vacation pay,
OFi:,
b)	Elect to take an additional day off with pay at a
time mutually agreed between the Company and the employee. If no suitable agreement can be reached between the parties the final decision shall be determined by local management. If the employee wishes to make an election as provided for in Clause 8.03	(b) hereof, he shall advise? the
Company of such election within a reasonable time prior to the vacation period assigned to, or chosen be him.
B.04	Regi.il ar employees drawing sickness and accident pay
when a paid holidauy occurs, shall receive under this Article 8 only the amount by which the pay for the paid holiday hereunder exceeds such sickness and accident pay.
14
8.05
If one or more of the above holidays
occur while an
employee is away on leave of absence for any reason, the employee shall receive no pay for such holiday or holidays not worked.
8.06 "Regular employee" or "regular full-time employee" as used in this Article and elsewhere in this Agreement, shall mean all employees except casual and part-time employees. "Casual employees" shall. mean those employees who are hired for a specific job of short duration or any employe who has not been on the payrol1 for a continuous period of at least four (4) weeks. "Part—time employees" are those who do hot normally work more than twenty-four (24) hours in the week.
ART ICLE 9	- 51CKNESS A N . P ACCTPEh)T
9.01	No employee shall be eligible for benefits under this
Article unless he notifies the Company, at least fifteen (15) minutes prior to the start of his shift.
9.02	When employees currently receiving benefit payments under this Article are retired because of age, physical or mental disability, or other reason, payments under this Article shall cease.
9.03	At the onset of any
transferred from the active
disability, an employee will be payroll to the applicable benefit
15
payroll.- Except as provided in Clause 9.07 benefits to which an employee may be entitled hereunder are determined by his service arid status at the onset of the disability.
9.04	In case any sickness or non-compensatable accident benefit payments, lesser in amount or duration than those payable under this Article, are provided for by Provincial or Federal laws, it is understood that the difference only, if any, between such Provincial or Federal required payments and the amount the employee is entitled to under this sickness or non-compensatable accident, payment plan will be payable. If such Provincial or Federal required payments are greater than those payable under this Article, no payments shall be made under this Article.
9.05	All employees, who are absent, for a period of four <4) or more consecutive work days shall be required to submit to the Company acceptable medical evidence. Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees who are habitually absent shall be required to submit acceptable medical evidence for each and every absence. For the purposes of the foregoing and Clause 9.06, "acceptable medical evidence" shall mean a letter or other document signed by the employee's physician which indicates the reason for hiss absence (nature of his illness), the date of treatment, the estimated treatment period and his estimated date of recovery.
7.06	When employees are absent from work because of
disability or non-compensatable accident, and when such absences and their continuation as is required by Clause 9.05 are supported by acceptable medical evidence, part wage payments shall be made in accordance with the following terms arid condi 11ons:
Payments shall not be made when employees are absent from work because? of disability duo to sickness or injury caused by or as a result of the employee's own act or misconduct. All absences shall be considered as starting with the loss of the first day on which the employee was scheduled to work.
SCHEDULE
Service Required:
While being credited with service within the meaning of Article 17, and after three (3) months or more of credited service at. the time of the onset of the absence, all of which service must have been performed subsequent to t-he employee's most recent (if any):
1)	Discharge for cause, unless such discharge is reversed through the grievance procedure or arbitration.
2)	Quit
3)	Layoff in excess of ISO working days
4)	Failure to return to work: for the Company within
17
the times limited by Clause 11.09	(b) hereof when
recal1ed.
Waiting periods Four (4) consecutive calendar days.
The four-day waiting period shall be waived in respect to an employee who is hospitalised during the waiting period due to an illness or accident.
Amount of Payments
The amount of payment shall be as followss
CONSECUTIVE WEEKS OF	PERCENTAGE OF
COMF'ENSATABLE DISABILITY	WAGES_________
FIRST WEEK...........................60'/.
SECOND WEEK...........................60V.
THIRD WEEK.......................... 65'/,
FOURTH WEEK...........................657.
FIFTH AND SUBSEQUENT WEEKS............70V.
On the basis of the number of hours in each such week missed that were available to the employee to work in his department in that week had he not been absent due to sickness or non-compensatable acc;,i dent.
In cases involving absences less than a full work week, the daily payment, computed at the applicable percentage of wages for such work week, will be based on the number of hours missed on such day that were available to the employee to work in his department had he not been absent due to sickness or non-compensatab1e accident.
18
same basis as aforesaid, except that payments shall not be made during or in respect of any period:
i) that commences ten <10) weeks before the week in which her confinement for pregnancy is expected and terminates six (6). weeks after the week in which her confinement occurs, ii) of maternity leave taken pursuant to provincial 1 aw.
. iii) for which maternity benefits are paid to her under Section 30 of the Unemployment Insurance Act.
9.07	If, during a period when an employee is absent due to
sickness or accident and is receiving benefit payments under Article 9, this Collective Agreement provides for a wage'rate increase, such sickness and accident benefit payments shall be adjusted accordingly.
9.08	The Company, shall		have	the right	at all times to
unilaterally amend any		of	the	provision of	this Article 9 in
order to	remain qualified	f or-	the	■Uneinpl oyment	Insurance Premium
Reducti on	•				
9. 09	Thi s Art icle 9	sha 1 1	take	? effect the	first full payroll
week following the date of receipt by the Company of Written notice of ratification of this Collective Agreement.
20
ARTICLE 10 - VACATIONS
10.01	Vacation eligibility requirements are based upon credited service. The period October 25th through the subsequent October 24th shall be considered the vacation year.
10.02	First Vacation; An employee becomes eligible for a
vacation for the first, time when the employment records show that either of the following requirements have been met:
a)	The completion of 365 calendar days of accumulated service without having been off the payrol. 1 for more consecutive days than ninety (90), Sundays and holidays included, while accumulating this credit for service, OR,
b)	As soon as the employment records show any consecutive 365 day peri od during which he has completed 270 calendar days on the payrol1. (This requirement is not to be considered as having been met until on or after the anniversary date of the snip 1 oyee ' s ori ginal emp 1 oyment) .
10.03	Subsequent Vacations; An employee who has received his first vacation is thereafter eligible to receive subsequent annual vacations; any time on or after October 25th, in the succeeding vacation year, provided he is currently (an the active payroll and since receiving his last vacati on i-i e h as at a 1 1 times been on the active or a benefit payroll. (If he has not, he must
21
qualify again under Clause 10.02, except that the last sentence in brackets in Clause 10.02 (b) hereof shall ot in such case be app1i cable).
10.04	Length of Vacations The length of vacation will depend upon either the employee's credited service or upon the number of vacation for which the employee has qualified since his /host recent commencement; of credited service, whichever is more favorable to the employee, as follows:
TWO weeks' vacation annually, commencing with the first vacation for which the employee qualifies.
THREE weeks' vacation annually commencing with the fifth vacation for which the employee qualifies or after five (5) years of credited service.
FOUR weeks' vacation annually commencing with the twelfth vacation for which the employee qualifies or after twelve (12) years of credited service.
FIVE weeks' vacation annually, commencing with the twentieth vacation for which the employee qualifies or after twenty (20) years of credi ted servi ce.
SIX weeks'. vacation annually commencing with the twenty-fifth vacation for which the employee qualifies or after twenty—five (25) years of credited service.
10.05	Employees who are entitled to two or more weeks of vacation may take their vacation at any time during the vacation
year in which the required service will presumably be completed, subject to the provisions of Clauses 10.06 and 10.10.
10.06	The Company shall implement a vacation .shutdown period of two weeks between June 1st and July 15th of each vacation year. The period selected for vacation shutdown will be posted by January 15th of each vacation year. All eligible employees must, take a minimum of two weeks vacation during this shutdown period.
10.07	Pay for each week of vacation for which the employee is el igitile- shall be figured on the basis of the employee's average earnings for the previous 52-week period from October 25th to October 24th of the precedi.rig year
10.OB Employees who have earned their vacation under this vacation plan but who become sick or are injured prior to having received their vacation, may, upon request to the Company, receive their vacation pay. It is understood, however, that both vacation pay and payments for disability will not be made for the same period of time.
10.09	Vacations will, as far as possible, be granted for the period selected by the employee, but final allocation of vacation periods is left to the Company in order to assure orderly operation of the Poultry Processing Plant. Every reasonable
effort will be made to permit each employee to take his vacation between May 1st and October 1st. In the choice of vacation dates, department seniority shall prevail. Vacation lists will be posted in each department.
10.10	Vacations	will	be granted only in	the. vacation	year in
which they are due	and	may not be carried	over	to the following
vacation year. If, however, due to some emergency, an employee is not permitted to	take	his vacation during the	vacation	year in
which it is due, he	shall have the right	to	take it	in the
ensuing vacation year.
10.11	Employees entitled to vacations will not be allowed to take money in lieu thereof.
10.12	a) An employee eligible for vacation who is laid off
because of reduction in his gang shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he has qualified, b) An employee eligible for vacation whose employment is terminated for any reason shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he had become eligible. In the case of death, such pay shall be paid to his estate or the person legally entitled.
10.13	Employees shall be entitled to receive their vacation pay at the beginning of their vacation period if so desired.
2-1
10. 14
All of the vacation provisions of the Agreement shall
be read, subject to applicable Provincial and/or Dominion Statutes and to the extent, that the benefits required under such statutes are more favorable to the employees than the vacation benefits provided by this Agreement, such statutes shall prevail.
ARTHSJLJF Si - SENIORITY
11.01	Seniority will be based on length of accumulated service in the Plant. Actual time on the payroll shall be accumulated to determine an employee's length of service, provided, however, for the purposes of these seniority provisions only, the time an employee is in a layoff status not to exceed one continuous year shall be credited to his seniority, except for the purpose of paragraph 11.02 of this Article.
11.02	Seniority shall operate on a combination of department and plant basis. An employee shall acquire plant and department seniority rights after he has attained sixty (60) calendar days of service. Until the time, he shall be considered a temporary employee and may be separated from the Company's employ at any time without reference to seniority, and the Company shall be under no obligation to rehire him. However, if an employee completes more than sixty (60) calendar days of service, his seniority shall commence from his original date of employment.
11.03
There will be seven <7) seniority departments as
foilOWS!
1)	Receiving and Eviscerating
2)	Cry--C)--Vac
3)	Shipping and Freezer handling
4)	Further Processing
5)	Mechanical
6)	Sanitation
7)	Engineering
11.04	Overtime in a seniority department will be performed by those employees having seniority in that department. If there is not a sufficient number of employees having department seniority in the department where the overtime is to be worked, the Company has the right, to assign employees from other departments to that department to perform such overtime work on a seniority basis, providing the employee is qualified to perform the work required.
11.05	Employees who experience reduced hours of work within a seniority department shall have no right to do any work except that, which is performed within such seniority department, unless otherwise directed by the Company.
1 1.06	a)	Layoffs from	the plant	occasioned by gang
		rearrangements	pursuant to a	reduction in volume
		of work to be	handled will	be made according to
26
Plant seniority, provided that an emp 1 oyee who would thus be retained can satisfactori l yperfarm the job that is assigned.
b)	For the purpose of staffing the further processing
department duri ng 1 ayoff s ‘Pram the plant as per Article 11.06	(a) the Plant seniority list shall
not prevai 1 .
During these times the further processing department will be staffed by following the department seniority list.
c)	During a layoff in the further processing seniority department, that departments seniority 1 1st shall not prevai 1 for the purpose of further
processing employees bumping into other departments.
11.07	Seniority departments and the plant working force will
be increased in the following manner:
FIRSTi	An employee who has been assigned f ram hi s
original department to another department shall be recalled to his original department. SECOND:	An emp 1 aye with plant senior-ity will be
recalled in order of plant seniority provided such employee is qualified to perform the job which is open.
27
THIRD:
By implementing employees' approved requests
for transfers pursuant to Clause 11.OS.
11.08	An employee? with plant seniority who desires a transfer
to another department or job may submit a written application to the Plant Superintendent.	If a vacancy occurs	in that
department, an application on file shall be given consideration in order of seniority, provided the employee possesses the necessary qualifications to perform the job. An employee who is transferred to another department will have his seniority transferred to that department. Where a permanent job vacancy occurs within a seniority department., employees within that seniority department shall be permitted, at their request, to fill the said vacancy on the basis of ability, merit and department seniority, notwithstanding that the said vacancy may carry a higher, a lower, or the same authorized wage rate. It is understood that where the ability and merit are sufficient, department seniority shall prevail in the application of the preceding sentence. Permanent job vacancies which cannot be filled within the department. shall be posted on a plant, basis, for a minimum of three days;-
11.09	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited, and there is no obligation to
rehire when he:
a)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or discharged for cause.
b)	Fails o return to work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company. Employees will be notified by the present method of contact (or by letter or by telegram, etc.) at. their' .last known address, and they will be expected to report as directed. Failure to do so, or failure to accept a comparable .job offered, shall forfeit the.ir seniority rights; provided, however, that in cases of inability to report s directed, upon- immediate notification to the Company, they will be given five additional days within which to report. Employees who are unable to report within this five-day period because of sickness or accident, will be given additional time within which to report, such time riot to exceed the period that such disability, as shown by acceptable medical evidence, prevents their return to work;
c)	Has been out of employment by the Company for a period of twelve months or longer due to lack of work:.
11.10	An employee having acquired seniority who is later
employed by the Company outside of the bargaining unit, shall
29
11.14
An employee? proved to have been laid off out of turn or
recalled out. of turn, will be restored to his former position, provided a grievance is filed within 72 hours from the time of layoff or failure to recall in turn. An employee so restored to his former position will be made whole for loss of earnings at this regular rate of pay during the period that he should have? been at wort: for the Company, less any money he or she earned in other emp 1 oyinent.
11.15	The Company will advise the chief Steward twenty-four
(24) hours in advance? the names of employees being laid off or recalled.
ARTICLE 12 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
12.01	The Company shall mate reasonable provision for safety arid health of the employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices, procedures and other safety equipment deemed necessary by the Company properly to protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company and worn by the employees. First-aid shall be available for workers on both day and night shifts. Failure to comply with the provision of Article 12.01 referring to procedurt?s and equipment, shall result in disciplinary action being taken.
12.02	The Company will continue is present practice of paying 1007. of the monthly premium established by the Ontario Health
31
Insurance Commission for regular employees for standard ward hospi tal care? provided the employees are on the active or benefit payroll, have worked five or mores .regular work days in that particular month and have not less than si;; (6) months of credited service, and provided, ' however, if pursuant to any Federal, Provincial or Municipal law any of the benefits, services or care presently provided under this clause are or become available to any class or group of employees or their covered dependents, or if the amount of the premium or cost for sue,., ser.vi ces i s reduced, tile cost to the Company sh.,11 be reduced in a proportionate manner.
In determining whether or not an employee has accumulated five (5) or more regular work; days in any month, each four, hours of overtime worked in that, month shall be equal to one regular work day.
12.03	The Company agrees to provide the Dental Insurance Plan outlined in Exhibit "C" attached hereto and forming a part hereof.
ARTICLE 13' - GENERAL.
13.01	The Company wi l 1 provi de a locked bul 1 et i n board f or union notices only, and the keys for such bulletin board shall be kept in the possession of the Company. Union notices may be posted on such bulletin board, subject to the approval of the Manager as to context and contents.
13.02	Nothing in this Agreement shall require the Company c>r the Union to take any action which shall be unlawful by reason of any applicable, present, or future statute, order or regulation
'of the Province of Ontario or of the Dominion of Canada.
13.03	The	Company will furnish	freezer coats,	hair nets,
paper hats, rubber aprons, rubber glo'/es, steel gloves, Eleevettes and other protective equipment which in the opinion of the Company is deemed necessary and all such equipment, shall be worn by the employees,
13.04	The Company will furnish white or coloured outer coats and/or coveralls to employees working in areas that require the wearing of these coats and/or coveralls. The coats and/or coveralls so supplied are to remain the property of the Company and shall not be taken off the plant. Employees are to deposit the soiled coats and/or coveralls in the propel- containers.
The Company will, supply laundry service- for the above mentioned coats and/or coveralls.
13.05	a)	Each employee who is	required by the	Company to
wear rubber boots will	be furnished the	same at no
cost except a probationary employee who will be reimbursed the full cost:	thereof upor the
completion of
hi s
prohationary
peri od.
An
employee required to wear rubber boots shall be supplied a voucher by the Company and said employee will then purchase the required type of rubber boots from the recommended supplier. Such rubber boots which, in the opinion of the Company, are worn out, shall be returned to the Company before being replaced at no cost to the employee up to. a mar!imum of two pairs during any twelve (12) manthe period.
Where in the opinion of the Company deemed necessary, the Company agrees to provide to employees a (nonetary allowance of up to $50.00 towards the purchase? of C.S. A. Approved safety footwear for use on the job. Such employees will become eligible for this allowance one year from the date of the previous purchase. Freezer employees only will become eligible for this allowance si w (6) months from the. date of the previous purchase, provided in the opinion of the Company, replacement C.S.A. Approved safety footwear for use on the job is deemed necessary at the time of purchase. In the event that the Unian should disagree with the Company's; opinion as to whether safety footwear on the job is or is not deemed necessary, the Company agrees to discuss
the issue with the plant sa f et y
c o <n m i 11 e e • w i t h a
view to arriving at a satisfactory settlement agreeable to both parties.
c)	In accordance with 13.05 (a) the company agrees to offer a fleece type lined rubber boot in lieu of nort lined rubber boots in cool room areas.
13.06	No employee outside of the bargaining unit will be used
on work of the same nature as that performed by employees in the bargaining unit except as follows:
i)	For the purpose of breaking in new employees or employees on a new job, or instructing employees;
ii)	For	the purpose	of taking an employee's place
temporarily in such cases a s fail. Lire to show up for work, or w ho h ad t o b e reli eve d due to injury or	sickness, or	who, f or other reason, is
temporarily absent fimom the job;
iii)	In locations which are i sol cited or gangs which are not sufficiently large to justify the full time use of a supervisor or managerial employee and only if it has been the practice in the past to ust? such einp 1 oyees.
iv)	In	the absence	of a shift engineer due to
absenteeism or vacations the chief engineer will be permitted to work the day shift and re-schedule shift engineers as required. .
13.07	Employees unable to report for work for any reason must
notify the Company fifteen minutes prior to the start of their shift, except in the case of extenuating circumstances, but in no case later than fifteen minutes after the start of their shift, failure t.o do so will result, in the loss of that day's work.
ARTICLE J4 - SEFARAT ION ALLOWANCES
14.01	Separation payments shall be made to employees having one (1) or more years of credited service who are permanently separated from the service of the Company as a result of a reduction in the working force arising out of the closing of a department or unit of the Company when it is not expected that the employee will be re-employed.
14.02	Separation payments shall not be mades
1)	To employees who have less than one (1) year's credited service;
2)	To	employees	who	arc? laid off in gang .reducti ons:
3)	To	employees	who	are discharged for cause;
4)	To	employees	who	voluntarily resign;
5)	To	employees	who	are retired on pension;
6)	To	employees	who	refuses an offer of employment by
the Company	in another unit of its business, the
location of which is reasonably accessible t.o the location of the place of employment from which the
employees are being dropped from the service?.
14.03	Separation allowances shall be computed on the basis of the following schedule, which is to be used in computing the numoer of weeks pay according to the years of credited service. Payments are to be computed on the basis of average hours worked during the previous four full weeks at his regular rate of pay.
YEARS OF CREDITED-SEPVICE	WEEKS OF P A Y
1		
........... 1 1/2
		...... ............ .	
4			7-1.7
6		
................ ......... .. . . ..	.4 1/
8				 . . 5 - 1 • 2
c?			
10			
11 and over , add to			7-1/2
1-1/2 weeks' pay for each above ten (10) years. EXAMPLE 12 years of credited service;!	year of credited service
First tc?n (10) years credited service....7~1/2 weeks' pay Service over ten(10) years <12~10~2X1-1/2)	3 weeks' pay
Total separation allowance..................10—1/2 weeks' pay
To the separation allowance computed as per example, add
37
Employees who work on a second shift shall be paid the premium for all hours worked ori the second shift.
15.05	Employees’ cheque stubs shall show gross earnings,
itemized deductions*, regular hourly rate and net amount payable.
ARTICLE 16 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
16.01	Leave of absence for the purpose of this Agreement is
defined to mean an absence from work with permission for a period of seven (7) days or more without pay or compensation of any kind.
16.01	Leave of absence, without pay, beyond regular vacation to which an employee is entitled may be granted for good and sufficient reason on the basis of the length of credited service, as follows:
LEAVE OF SERVICE
Under 10 years
Over 10 and under 15 years
Over 15 years
LENGTH OF ABSENCE
1	month
2	month
3	months
16.03	Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing an employee to take another position temporarily, try out new work, or venture into business for himself.
b)	Voluntarily leave the service of the Company.
c)	Fail to return to work when recalled from layoff within the time provided in Article 11 -- Clause 11.09 (b) or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company.
d)	Have been out of employment by the Company due to a layoff for a period of two (2) years.
e)	Are separated from the Company's employ as a result of a reduction in the working force arising out of the closing of a department or unit of the Company when it is not expected that the employee will be re-employed, whether or not paid a separation allowance.
If subsequently re-employed, no credit will be given for prior service.
ARTICLE 18 - BEREAVEMENT
18.01	When an employee is absent from work on .a regular work
day to attend the funeral of an immediate relative, he shall be paid for eight <B) hours at his regular rate of pay for each day of such absence up to a maximum of three (3) consecutive regular work days.
For the purpose of this clause, an‘immediate relative shall be defined as. follows:	Father, Father-i n--l aw, Mother,
Mother—in-law, Brother, Sister, Spouse, Grandparent, Grandchild, Son or Daughter.
43
When an employee is absent from work on a regular work day and loses pay to attend the funeral of a Brother-inlaw, Sister-1 n-1 aw, Son-in-law or Daucjhter-in-law, he shall, be reimbursed at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours lost up to a maximum of eight (B> regular hours.
Where an employee is absent from work on a regular work day and loses pay to attend a memorial service’ for any of the aforementioned relatives, he shall be reimbursed at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours lost up to aa maximum of eight (8) regular hours. The Company may require from the employee proof of his attendance at such memorial service before it reimburses him hereunder.
Provisions of this article shall not apply to employees then receiving other Company benefits such as vacation pay, sickness and accident payments or on an authorized leave of absence without pay for any reason.
fin employee will not be entitled to receive under this Article 18 bereavement pay in respect of a day for which he is receiving holiday pay.
15.02 Jury Duty - When a regular employee is absent from work to perform jury service or to testify as a subpoenaed witness, the Company will pay him his regular rate of pay for each hour he would have worked had he not been on jury duty, less any jury fees, or as witness, less ny witness fees, received by him for performing such service; or giving such evidence.
44
SEPTEMBER 27, 1984
MY-. D. M. Dayman
Busi ness Representati ve
United Food and Commercial Workers
Local 175
1129 Main Street East Hamilton, Ontario
Dear Mr. Dayman:
RE:	P & H FOODS SUPPLEMENTARY
P COMPREHENSIVE .MEDMCQL. .
This will confirm our agreement with reference to the* Supplementary Comprehensive Medical Plan in respect of all regular hourly paid employees at the Hanover, Ontario Poultry Plant as follows:
1.	The payment of benefits to employees and dependents covered by the'plan will begin when the deductible has been satisfied. Benefits will be 85X of the eligible expenses incurred by the individual during the calendar year.
2.	The $25.00 deductible will apply only	once each
calendar year to each person, even though there may be several accidents or illnesses. No more than two $25.00 deductibles per family will apply in one calendar year.
3.	An additional benefit will be included	to cover
expenses incurred for the purchase of prescription eye glasses and frames. This benefit is limited to a maximum of $75.00 each twenty four (24) consecutive months for each person covered by the Plan. The normal deductible and co-insurance provisions of the Medical Plan do not apply to this benefit.
Yours very truly, P H FOODS
R.E. Ratte Director of Qperat i ons
RER/mvm
46
E X H I B I -T " B “
	JUNE 2	JUNE 2
JOB CLASSIFICATION.	1988	1989
TURKEY DEBONER	10.60	11.12
CUTTING TAILS	10.60	11.12
CUT VENTS AND BAR CUTTING	10.60	11. 12
KNIFE AND SCISSOR SHARPENER	10. 60	11.12
SLIT NECK	10.60	11.12
"GRADER	10. 70	11.22
DRAWEVISCERA	10. 60	11.12
OPERATE CRYOVAC MACH 1 NES	10.65	11.17
CUT OFF FEET	10.65	11.17
REMOVE NECKS	10. 65	11,17
PULL CROPS	10.75	11.27
VACUUM GUN OPERATOR	10. 65	11.17
. TRUSSER	10. 65	11.17
FREEZER MAN	10.65	11.17
FORK LIFT TRUCK OPERATOR	10.65	11.17
RECEIVER	10.65	11.17
STICKER OR KILLER	10.80	11.32
LIVE HANGERS	10. 85	11.37
SANITATION (NIGHT CLEAN-UP)	10.60	11.12
CUT GIZZARDS	10.60	11.12
ENGINEER - 4TH CLASS	11.40	11.92
- 3RD CLASS	11.60	12. 12
- 2ND CLASS	11.85	12.37
A. MECHANIC (GOV. CERT.)	11.59	12. 11
B. MECHANIC (NOT CERT.)	11.39	11.91
MECHANIC TRAINEE	10.65	11.17
MECHANIC TRAINEE (WITH 60 DAYS’ CREDITED SERVICE)	11.00	11.52
MECHANIC TRAINEE (WITH 120		
DAYS’ CREDITED SERVICE)	11.39	11.91
LEAD Hand:	A Lead Hand desi gnawed by the super-i ntendent , shal 1
be paid as determined by the PI ant Superintendent a mi n i mum of 35c per hour over his/her regular wage rate feu?- the hours worked per-f ormi ng the duties desi gnated by the Plant Superintendent of a Lead Hand.
Lead Hands will be choosen from the bargaining unit, employees.
48
E X H I BIT " c
DENTAL INSURANCE PLAN.
Effective the date of ratification of this Agreement the Company agrees ta provide a Dental PI an as fol lows:
1	The f ol 1 owi ng servi ces wi 11 be covered :
-	Examinations
-	Consul tat i ons
-	Speci f i c Di agnostic Procedures
-	X-Rays
-	Preventati ve servi ce such as seal i ng and pol i shi ng, and f 1 uori de treatments
-	Routine Fi 11 ings
-	Extractions
-	Anaesthesia
-	Periodontal Treatments
-	Endodonti c Treatments
-	Surgi cal Servi ces
-	Dentures, denture rel i ni ng and/or rebasing, repairs and adjustments.
2.	The Plan will reimburse the employee for BOV. of allowable expenses (except for charges related to dentures, in which case 50X will be reimbursed), with allowable expenses based on the 1987 Dental Association Fee Schedule where such a schedule exists, otherwise on the prevailing schedule prior to 1987, and with a maximum annual payment of $1000.00 to each employee or dependent.
3.	Where cl aims charges are estimated to exceed $200.00 for any employee or dependent, a treatment plan wi 11 be
submitted to the insurance company before treatment commences..
4.	Eligibility will be thesame as for the Suppl ementary Comprehensive Medical Plan.
5.	Covered dental expenses dQ not include and no payment will be made for:
-	Service not incl uded in the above
-	Services provided under any government pi ans or Workmen ' s Compensat i an.
-	Servi ces covered under any other i nsurance
49
DENTfth_lNSJUBANCH. PIJW./cant i nued).
5.	- Cosmetic treatment
-	Charges for broken appointments
-	Dentures replacing an existing appliance which is less than three years' old or which can be made serviceable
-	Dentures within three years from the date that dentures were provided under this Plan.
-	Theft or loss of dentures
-	Services commenced or dentures ordered prior to the effective date of the Plan.
6.	Effective June 2, 1989 the 1988 Dental Associ at i on fee
will apply if available.
P S< H FOODS
ACCEPTABLE MEDICAL EVIDENCE FORM.
DATE: ______________
NOTE TO PHYSICIAN:	The P &H Foods sickness and accident
program i s Company insured.
This farm and the questions it contains were agreed upon between the Company and the Uni an which represents the empl oyees.
EMPLOYEE SIGNATURE!!
NAME___________________________________________IS UNDER MY CARE.
FIRST	LAST
THE NATURE OF HIS/HER I LLNESS IS____________.	.	.	.____________
THE TREATMENT BEGAN ON:____________________________________
DAY	MONTH	YEAR
THIS PERSON IS EXPECTED TO BE UNDER TREATMENT FOR APPROX IMATELY
DAYS WEEKS	MONTHS			
: EST IMATED DATE	O F RETURN TO WORK 1S:			
		DAY	MONTH	YEAH
SIGNATURE OF PHYSICIAN