BETWEEN
J. M. SCHNEIDER INC.
AND
THE SCHNEIDER EMPLOYEES ’ ASSOCIATION
KITCHENER - ONTARIO
JANUARY 1, 1987 - DECEMBER 31, 1988
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
No.
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE............... . .	1
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION...................  2
ARTICLE 3 - ASSOCIATION SECURITY........... 2
Membership............................... 2
Payment of Dues.......................... 3
Contracting Out.......................... 4
Foremenworking .......................... 5
Officers and Stewards of the	Association 5
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RI CHTS............. 5
ARTICLE 5 - DISCRIMINATION................. 6
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Gr ievance Comm ittee.........
Substitution of Members . . . Initiation Time of Grievance.
T ime L im its................
Grievance Steps 1 -k..........
Company Gr ievance............
Association Grievance . . . . Request for Arbitration . . .
6
6
7
7
7
7
9
9
10
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
No.
ARTICLE 7 . ARBITRATION ....................
Arbitrable Matters......................
Appo intment of Arb itrators............
Decision of the Board...................
Power of the Board......................
Expenses of Arbitration ................
T ime L im its..........................
ARTICLE 8 - DISCIPLINE, SUSPENSION OR
DISCHARGE...................................
Discipline, Suspension or Discharge
For Just Cause..........................
S.E.A. Notification.....................
Unjust Suspension or Discharge..........
Disciplinary Notification...............
ARTICLE 9 - RATES OF PAY....................
Wage Rates..............................
Two (2) Job Rates ......................
Rates on Temporary Transfer ............
Rates on Permanent Transfer ............
Rates “ Changes in Method of Production
Probat ionary Rates.....................
S.E.A. Notification ....................
Work Measurement and Job Standards. .. Job Standards Disputes..................
10
10
11
11
12
12
12
13
13
13
13
H
15
15
16
16
16
17
18
18
18
19
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
No.
ARTICLE 10 - HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME,
AND PREMIUMS ............................
Regular Work Week......................
Changes to Weekly Schedule ............
Changes to Daily Start Time............
Daily Overtime ........................
Unscheduled Saturday ..................
Unscheduled Sunday ....................
Scheduled Saturday and/or Sunday . . . Work Performed on Statutory Holidays .
Off-Shift Premium......................
No Accumulation of Premiums............
Exclusions ............................
ARTICLE 11 - GUARANTEES AND CALL-INS . .
Minimum Week ..........................
Statutory Holiday in Minimum Week. . .
Exclusions to Minimum Week ............
Reporting Minimum “ Normal Shift .	.	.
Reporting Minimum • 6th or 7th Shift
or Statutory Holidays .................
Call-In................................
Compensable Accident ..................
20
20
20
21
22
22
23
23
23
24
24
24
24
24
25
26
26
26
27
27
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
No.
ARTICLE 12 - REST PERIODS AND MEALS. . .
Straight Eight Hour Shifts............
Sixth, Seventh or Statutory Holiday Shift and Emergency Call-backs .	.	.	.
Out-of-Town Meals.....................
Washroom Breaks ......................
ARTICLE 13 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS. . . . Designated Statutory Holidays. . . .
Part-Time Workers ....................
Qualifications for Pay ...............
Premiums for Statutory Holiday Worked. Statutory Holiday in Vacation.........
Exclusions ...........................
ARTICLE 14 - BEREAVEMENT ................
ARTICLE 15 - JURY DUTY ..................
ARTICLE 16 - SENIORITY ..................
Probat ionary Per iod ................
Seniority on Transfer.................
Job Elimination/Combination Bumping
Procedures ...........................
Exclusions............................
Students or Part-Time Transferred to Full-Time..........................
28
28
29
29
30
30
30
32
32
33
33
34
34
35
36
36
36
37
42
42
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
No.
S.E.A. Stewards........................
Absence Due to Accident or Illness .	.
Discharge, Termination or Lay-Off. .	.
Leave of Absence ......................
Provisions for Trainees................,
ARTICLE 17 - LAY-OFFS AND RECALLS. . . .
Order of Lay-Offs......................
Order of Recall........................
S.E.A. Notification....................
Benefits on Lay-Off....................
Plant Closing..........................
Exclusions.............................
ARTICLE 18 - PROGRESSION ................
Job Progression........................
Job Vacancies..........................
Exclusions.............................
ARTICLE 19 - TRANSFERS ..................
Temporary Transfers....................
Permanent Transfer ....................
Application for Transfer...............
42
43
43
44
46
47
47
48
48
48
49
50
50
50
51
51
52
52
53
53
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
No.
ARTICLE 20 . VACATIONS ..................
Vacation Year..........................
Length of Service......................
Vacat ion Schedule.....................
Completion of Required Service . . . .
Advance Vacat ion......................
Vacation Pay ..........................
Choice of Vacation ....................
Statutory Holiday in Vacation Week .	.
No Accumulation........................
ARTICLE 21 - RETIREMENT..................
N ormal Ret irement....................
Optional Early Retirement .............
Canada Pension Plan ...................
Company Pension Plan ..................
Exclusions ............................
ARTICLE 22 - SAFETY, HEALTH AND
SANITATION ..............................
ARTICLE 23 - WELFARE PLANS ..............
Eligibility............................
Health Insurance ......................
54
54
55
55
55
56
56
58
58
59
59
59
59
60
60
61
62
63
63
63
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
No.
Life Insurance .........
Weekly Indemnity ....
Income Continuance . . .
Dental Care.............
U. I .C. Premium Reduction
ARTICLE 24 - CLOTHING AND PERSONAL
EQUIPMENT .............................
New Employees ......................
Replacement and Additional Clothing
Transferred Employees...............
Laundering .........................
Maintenance Mechanic’s Tools .	.	.	.
ARTICLE 25 - BELLET IN BOARD............... 69
ARTICLE 26 - GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS. .	. 69
ARTICLE 27 - COMMENCEMENT AND DURATION
OF AGREEMENT ..........................
Effective Dates.....................
No Strike or Lockout ...............
APPENDIX ‘A’.............................72
APPENDIX 'B'............................. 74
69
69
70
67
67
68 68 68 68
64
64
65
65
66
THIS AGREEMENT
ENTERED INTO AS OF THE 24TH DAY OF MARCH 1987
MADE BY AND BETWEEN:
J. M. SCHNEIDER INC., AYR PLANT,
hereinafter referred to as "The Company"
and
SCHNEIDER EMPLOYEES' ASSOCIATION,
hereinafter referred to as "The Association"
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
It is the purpose of this Agreement to maintain and promote harmonious relations between the Company and the Association and the employees who are represented by the Association and to	provide	the negotiated terms	and
conditions of employment of such employees. Both parties agree that their mutual interest lies in friendly co-operation to promote the mutual interest and welfare of both the Company and such employees.
1
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION
The Company recogni zes the Association, which is certified by the Labour Relations Board of Ontario, as the so le and exclus ive bargain ing agent for all employees at Ayr, save and except Shift Foremen , persons above the rank of Shift Foremen, Office Staff and Sales Staff. Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine.
Where the term Association is used, it shall mean the Executive Officers Of The Association.
ARTICLE 3 - ASSOCIATION SECERITY
(3.1)	Membership
All new employees covered by this agreement shall be required, on or before the first work day of actual employment, become a member of the Association and sign a dues deduction authorization form.
Casual employees are not entitled to the provisions of Articles 6 to 2k inclusive except
(a)	Art ic le 6.7
Art icles	and 13 . A
(b)	Artie
Ar t ic le 17.1
(f)
(g)
- 2
(C) Articles 10.4 to 10.11 inclusive	(h)
Article 20.6 (b)
(d)	Article 11.7	(i)
Article 22
(e)	Article 12.1, 12.2
Casual employees are to be used for emergency, seasonal or temporary employment on a day to day basis for the hours required.
The Company shall not hire casual employees for the purpose of eliminating or reducing overtime opportunities that would have been available for full time employees.
Casual employees will not be used where it is practical to employ full time employees except where it is agreed with the Executive Officers.
Where the work performed by part-time or casual employees can be satisfactorily combined to permit the employment of a full time employee, this will be done.
(3.2)	Payment of Dues
The Company agrees that it shall deduct from the pay of each employee the dues of the Association as determined by it from time to time, in accordance with the constitution of the Association. Such deductions from pay shall be
- 3 -
remitted every week by the Company to the Treasurer of the Association in the week following such deduction.
(3.3)	Contracting Out
The Company prefers to have the work done by its	employees, a lthough, at t imes it	is
necessary to have work done by outside contractors. The relevant factors which the Company will consider before contracting out the work will be as follows:
Availability of the required skills, duration and frequency of the job, urgency of the job, cost and availability of equipment.
Any job that the Company feels should be contracted out will be discussed with the Association before proceeding. The Company agrees that it will deal fairly and honestly with any decision to contract out.
This provision does not apply to installation and construction work or to transportation of goods. However, any changes in installations or truck routes presently covered by bargaining unit employees will be discussed in advance with the Assoc iat ion .
- A
(3.4)	Foremen Working
Foremen and Shift Foremen shall not do any bargaining unit work except for training or in cases of emergency. Shift Foremen shall not perform any overtime work normally done by a bargaining-unit member unless there is no bargaining-unit member available or qualified to do the job.
(3.5)	Officers and Stewards of the Association
The Company recognizes that Stewards of the
Association are required, from time to time, to investigate and process grievances or discuss with supervision other matters affecting employees. When it becomes necessary for a Steward to leave his/her job to attend to these matters, they will give supervision as much advance notice as possible, at which time, supervision will make arrangements for the Steward to be relieved within one hour after receiving such request.
The Association shall exercise its rights in a fair and just manner.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The management of the plant and the direction of the working force are vested exclusively with the Company. The Company retains the sole right
- 5 -
to hire, discipline, discharge, lay off, assign duties, promote and transfer employees, and to determine the starting and quitting time and the number of hours to be worked; to determine the product to be handled, produced or manufactured; the schedules of production and the methods, processes and means of production or handling subject only to the restrictions and regulations governing the exercise of these rights as are expressly provided in this contract.
Management shall exercise its rights in a fair and just manner.
ARTICLE 5 - DISCRIMINATION
The Company and Association agree that there will be no intimidation, discrimination, interference, restraint, or coercion exercised or practiced by either of them or by any of their representatives or members because of an employee's membership or non-membership in the Association or because of his activity or lack of activity in the Association.
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
(6,1)	Grievance Committee
The Association shall establish a grievance committee of not less than three or more than
- 6 -
five and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of such committee.
(6.2)	Substitution of Members
In the event of the absence of any members of Management or the Association, substitution may be made by members of equal rank on either side.
(6.3)	Initiation Time of Grievance
A grievance will not be considered by the Company or the Association unless grievance procedure is initiated within seven (7) full working days of the event on which the grievance is based.
(6.k) Time Limits
Time limits imposed in this article shall apply equally to the Company and the Association, but may be extended by mutual agreement. Working days, as referred to in this article, shall not include Saturdays, Sundays, or Statutory Holidays.
(6.5)	Grievance Steps 1
Should any differences arise as to the interpretation, application or non-application of the provisions of this Agreement, an earnest effort will be made to settle the same in the following manner:
7
FIRST * There will be a discussion between the aggrieved employee, with the Departmental Steward, and the Foreman/Shift Foreman of the department involved. This step of the procedure to be processed and a decision rendered by supervision within two full working days.
SECOND ■ If the matter has not been settled, the grievance must be presented in writing to the Foreman/Shift Foreman and signed by the aggrieved employee, or employees concerned. At this stage of the grievance procedure the employee, the departmental steward, the Foreman/Shift Foreman, and the Plant Superintendent will deal with the grievance. This step of the procedure to be processed within two full working days and a decision rendered within another two full working days.
THIRD - If the grievance is still not settled, it shall be directed to the Director of Manufacturing or his delegate who shall convene a meeting comprising the aggrieved employee, the Departmental Steward, the Association President or members of the Grievance Committee, the Kitchener Employee Relations Manager, the Plant Superintendent and the Foreman concerned. This step of the procedure to be processed within five full working days and a decision rendered within another five full working days.
- 8 -
FOURTH ■ If a settlement Is still not reached, the grievance shall be presented within three full working days of the decision under step Three, to the National Employee Relations Manager (or his delegate in his absence) . This step of the procedure to be processed and a decision rendered within five full working days.
(6.6)	Company Grievance
The Company has the right to present a grievance against the Association, its officers, its members in the bargaining unit or other representatives for failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement. Any grievance by the Company shall be in writing to the Secretary of the Association and shall be dealt with by the Grievance Committee of the Association and shall be entered at the third step of the grievance procedure.
(6.7)	Association Grievance
The Association has the right to present a grievance against the Company for alleged violations of this Agreement, provided that such grievance could not be filed under the terms of this Agreement by an individual employee or provided that the interest of the Association, or the interest of a majority of the members of a department, or the majority of the members of a group of departments in an area, is affected.
- 9 -
Any grievance presented by the Association shall be in writing to the Director of Manufacturing and entered at the third step of the grievance procedure.
(6.8)	Request for Arbitration
If an amicable settlement is not arrived at through the foregoing procedure, the matter in dispute shall be referred to arbitration. The request for arbitration must be made within five full working days of the completion of the fourth stage of grievance referred to in this article.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
(7.1) Arbitrable Matters
Both parties to this Agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation, application, or alleged violation of this Agreement, which has been properly carried through the appropriate steps of the grievance procedure outlined in Article 6, and which has not been settled, or any dispute as to whether a matter is arbitrable, will be referred to a Board of Arbitration at the written request of either of the parties hereto.
10
(7.2)	Appointment of Arbitrator
The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one person appointed by the Association, and a third person to act as chairman chosen by the other two members of the Board. Each party will notify the other, in writing, of the name of its appointee within five working days of the request by either party for a Board.
Should the person chosen by the Company and the person chosen by the Association fail to agree on a third person within ten days of the notification mentioned above, the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario, will be asked to nominate a person to act as chairman.
The Association and the Company shall have the right to refer any arbitrable matter to a single arbitrator. The selection of the single arbitrator shall be the subject of mutual agreement of the parties . In the event of a failure to agree upon a single arbitrator, the arbitrable matter shall then be referred to a three member board as provided above.
(7.3)	Decision of the Board
The decision of a Board of Arbitration, or a majority thereof, constituted in the above manner, shall be binding on both parties and
- 11 -
upon any employee concerned in, or affected by, the decision.
(7.4)	Power of the Board
The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
(7.5)	Expenses of Arbitration
Each of the parties to this agreement will bear the expenses of the nominee appointed by it to the Arbitration Board, and the parties will jointly bear the expense, if any, of the chairman. In the case of the appointment of a single arbitrator, the parties will jointly bear the expense, if any.
(7.6)	Time Limits
Time limits imposed in this article shall apply equally to the Company and the Association, but may be extended, by mutual agreement, and shall exclude Saturdays, Sundays, and Statutory Holidays.
12 -
ARTICLE 8 - DISCIPLINE, SESPENSION OR DISCHARGE
(8.1)	Discipline, Suspension Or Discharge For Just Cause
The Company reserves the right to discipline, suspend or discharge for just cause any employee without notice for cause, including having or consuming intoxicants or unauthorized drugs on company property; theft, disorderly, immoral or indecent conduct; continued absence or irregular attendance; habitual lateness; loitering during working hours; smoking in prohibited areas; insubordination or refusal to do work assigned; willful or deliberate violation of safety practices or plant rules; or for any offence that, while not specifically listed, is considered to be detrimental to the welfare of this Company and its employees.
(8.2)	S.E.A. Notification
The Association Secretary shall be notified immediately, in writing, of all suspensions and discharges.
(8.3)	Unjust Suspension or Discharge
Any employee who feels he has been wrongfully suspended or discharged shall have the right to appeal to the Grievance Committee who shall have the right to investigate and negotiate upon the matter. The employee must notify the Grievance
- 13 -
Committee within two full working days after suspension or discharge and the Grievance Committee must present the matter, in writing, to the Plant Superintendent, or his delegate, within two full working days after receiving notification from the suspended or discharged employee and the same shall be entered at the third step of the grievance procedure. A probationary employee's appeal shall be limited to the third step of the grievance procedure. If, upon review by Management, it is found that an employee has been unfairly or unjustly suspended or discharged, he shall be awarded whatever lesser discipline is appropriate, or, if circumstances warrant, he shall be reinstated and recompensed for loss of earnings resulting from such unfair or unjust suspension or discharge.
(8.4)	Disciplinary Notification
The Company will remove references to disciplinary action from the employee's record as follows:	Written Warning after a twenty-four
(24) month period; reprimand or suspension after a thirty-six (36) month period provided however, there has been no further disciplinary action taken against the employee during the applicable period referred to above.
H
Exceptions to the above include reprimands or suspensions for the following serious offences; illegal strike, slow-down, work stoppage, insubordination or fighting.
ARTICLE 9 - RATES OF PAY (9.1 ) Wage Rates
Effective January 1 ,	1987, the full time
hourly rate will be	increased	by $0.25.
Effective January 1, 1988, the full time hourly rate will be increased by $0.25. Effective January 1 , 1987, the full time hourly rate for all employees hired after this date will be $8.55 per hour, which will be increased to the Job rate in accordance with Article 9.6.
The base rate for new employees hired after January 1, 1987 is $9.00 per hour.
Full-time employees on lay-off at the date of ratification who are subsequently recalled to either the Poultry Department or Patty Department will be paid at the rates of pay in effect for full-time personnel covered under Appendix "A”.
15 -
(9.2)	Two (2) Job Rates
When an employee regularly performs two (2) or more jobs, he will receive the higher rate for eight (8) hours if the higher rated job exceeds two (2 ) hours .
(9.3)	Rates on Temporary Transfer
Pay rates of qualified employees on temporary transfer to higher rates jobs shall be adjusted to the higher rate commencing the first full shift on the higher rated job.
Employees temporarily transferred to lower rated jobs at their request will assume the rate of such job commencing the start of the pay week following such transfer.
(9.4)	Rates on Permanent Transfer
Any employee permanently transferred to another job will be paid his existing rate or the rate of the job to which he has transferred (whichever is the lesser). When qualified, or within three months, his rate shall be adjusted to the prevailing job rate. On jobs requiring a high degree of skill, it may be mutually agreed between the Company and the Association, that a longer period is justified.
- 16 -
Qualified as used above shall mean the ability to regularly perform the job without instruction or assistance.
(9.5)	Rates ■ Changes in Method of Production
Where changes in method of production or new jobs are introduced, the Company will determine the new rates of pay and classification after the staff has gained experience on the new method or job. New rates of pay established will be effective the date an acceptable degree of proficiency is attained by the worker. If a lower rate of pay has been established, the employee shall retain his rate of pay until the next contractual wage increase (or until he transfers to another job) at which time the adjustment will be made.
If a new or changed rate of pay is in dispute, a qualified Industrial Engineer, who is a member of the Association, shall review the process by which the rate of pay was set in accordance with the established procedure agreed to by both parties for determining rates of pay.
Should the rate of pay for a new or changed job remain in dispute after all relevant factors used in the determination of the rate of pay have been examined, it may be introduced as a grievance entered at the third step of the gr ievance procedure.
- 17
(9.6)	Probationary Rates
New employees shall be hired at 5% below the base rate. They will be moved to their job rate at the end of thirteen (13) weeks or when qualified, whichever comes first.
(9.7)	S.E.A. Notification
Subject to the provisions otherwise specified in this Agreement, the Company agrees that the Officers of the Association be provided with information regarding the pay rate and progress of any individual employee.
(9.8)	Work Measurement and Job Standards
The following procedures will apply during all work studies performed by	Company and
Assoc iat ion representat ives .
a )	Only qualif ied full t ime	employees with
appropriate skills and ability will be studied for the purpose of establishing permanent work standards.	Whenever
possible, this will be an employee(s) who normally performs the work.
b)	A reasonable number of	cycles and a
majority of the total will be taken during a work study in order to ensure that all elements of the job(s) are included and to improve stat ist ical accuracy.
- 18 -
c)	Start and stop times inn* 11 be recorded along with the name of the individual studied.
d)	All strike-outs on a time study must have a recorded reason.
(9*9) Job Standards Disputes
It is understood that the Company will make every effort to establish fair and accurate work standards and that employees and the Association will give every work standard a fair and just trial by working conscientiously against those standards.
If after the fair and just trial period, the Association is still not satisfied that an average	qualified	worker,	working
conscientiously can maintain a performance of 100%, a recheck study will be made by the Company when requested.
If the standard is still in dispute after the Company audit, a qualified member of the Association	may conduct a study using
established Company work measurement techniques.
Should the new job rate remain in dispute after a comparison of the Company and the Association studies, it may be introduced as a grievance starting at the second step of the gr ievance procedure.
- 19 -
It is further agreed that where the new job rate remains in dispute at the fourth step of the grievance procedure, the Company and the Association may, by mutual agreement, appoint a qualified independent industrial engineer to conduct a separate study. The expense of such study shall be shared by the Company and the Association.
ARTICLE 10	- HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, AND
PREMIUMS
(10.1)	Regular Work Week
(a)	Full “Time Employees
The regular work week shall consist of five consecutive shifts, eight hours per day, 40 hours per week from Monday to Saturday inclusive except for part-time employees.
(b)	Part-Time Employees
Part-time employees are employed five hours per day, 25 hours per week or less.
(10.2)	Changes to Weekly Schedule
No individual employee's weekly schedule may be changed without at least twenty-four hours' prior notice from the start time of his existing shift or, in the case of a group, seven (7) calendar days.
20 -
In the event it becomes necessary to change an individual employee's weekly schedule without at least twenty-four hours' prior notice from the start time of his existing shift, time and one-half will be paid for any work performed in the first shift of the new schedule.
In the event it becomes necessary to change the weekly schedule of a group without seven (7) calendar days' notice, time and one-half will be paid for any work performed within the balance of the seven (7) days on the new schedule. Provisions of this article shall apply to full-time employees only.
The above shall not apply for the purpose of providing the weekly guarantee in the event of a lay-off.
(10.3)	Changes to Daily Start Time
Employees required to report later than their regular start time without 2k hours ' notice for an individual or seven calendar days for a group, will be paid one and one-half times their regular rate for hours worked beyond the regular quitting time.
Employees required to report earlier than their regular start time without 2k hours' notice for an individual or seven calendar days
- 21 -
for a group, will be paid one and one-half times their regular rate for hours worked prior to the regular start time. Provisions of this article shall apply to full-time employees only.
The above shall not apply for the purpose of providing the weekly guarantee in the event of a lay-off.
(10,h) Daily Overtime
One and one-half times the hourly rate will be paid for all hours in excess of eight hours per shift, except those hours in excess of 12 per regular shift will be paid at two times the regular hourly rate. Vacation hours will not be credited to hours worked in calculating daily overtime.
An employee who volunteers to work overtime prior to his regular shift will be paid the overtime rate for those hours worked up to his regular start time and must work his regular shift thereafter.
(10.5)	Unscheduled Saturday
One and one-half times the hourly rate will be paid for the first eight hours paid on an unscheduled Saturday. Two times the regular hourly rate will be paid for hours in excess of eight. If during the week preceding the
- 22 -
Saturday the employee has been charged with an inexcused absence, he shall receive his regular rate to a maximum of eight hours and time and one-half thereafter.
(10.6)	Unscheduled Sunday
Two times the regular hourly rate shall be paid for work performed on an unscheduled Sunday. If during the week preceding the Sunday the employee has been charged with an inexcused absence, he shall receive one and one-half times the regular rate to a maximum of eight hours and two times the regular rate thereafter.
(10.7)	Scheduled Saturday and/or Sunday Employees whose regular work schedule includes
a Saturday or Sunday, will be paid one and one-half times their regular rate for hours on a shift which begins on a Saturday or Sunday to a maximum of eight (8) hours. Two times the regular hourly rate shall be paid for hours in excess of eight. This premium shall not apply to hours after midnight on Friday, which are part of the Friday shift.
(10.8)	Work Performed on Statutory Holiday
Two times the regular hourly rate shall be paid for all work performed on a designated Statutory Holiday.
23
(10.9)	Off-Shift Premium
An off-shift premium of 35 cents per hour shall be paid to shift workers whose regular work schedule starts between noon and midnight. Employees working on shifts beginning after 12 midnight and before 6:00 a .m. shall receive the off-shift premium for all hours worked up to 6:00 a.m. This premium shall apply to workers who are receiving overtime pay for overtime worked.
(10.10)	No Accumulation of Premiums
There shall be no accumulating of overtime premiums for the same hours worked, and/or paid for, but the highest overtime premium shall apply.
(10.11)	Exclusions
Provisions of section (10.2) and (10.3) of this article shall not apply to part-time or student employees.
ARTICLE 11 - GUARANTEES AND CALL-INS
(11.1)	Minimum Week
Hourly rated full-time employees who are scheduled to work and who are at work are guaranteed a pay equal to 37 hours at their regular hourly rate. Should the lack of work be attributable to circumstances over which the
- 24 -
Company has no control, excluding mechanical breakdown, this guarantee will be reduced by the number of hours lost.
Each hour of overtime worked during the minimum week will be credited as one hour against this guarantee, to a maximum of five hours. Pay received for hours worked on the sixth and seventh shifts will not be included in this guarantee. To qualify, employees must be available and willing to accept such work as may be provided for them.
If the employee fails to avail himself of the regular hours of work provided, the guaranteed minimum week shall be reduced by the difference between actual hours worked and the hours of work made available.
Any employee recalled to work from lay-off will not be eligible for the guarantee for the week of recall.
(11.2)	Statutory Holiday in Minimum Week
Statutory Holidays paid for during any week where the minimum guarantee is effective shall be considered as part of and included in the pay for the minimum week. Any hours worked on a Statutory Holiday shall be counted against this
- 25
minimum week. Statutory Holidays falling on the 6th or 7th shifts will lot be included as part of the minimum guaranteed week.
(11 .3) Exclusions to Minimum Week
Provisions of items (11.1) and (11.2) shall not apply to part-time, student or probationary employees.
(11.4)	Reporting Minimum ■ Normal Shift
Any employee who reports for his normal shift and is sent home before four consecutive hours' work have been completed shall be paid a minimum of four hours' pay at his regular rate. To qualify, the employee must be available and willing to accept such work as may be provided, providing that such work is made available during normal working hours. Should the lack of work be attributable to circumstances over which the Company has no control, excluding mechanical breakdown, this guarantee is waived and the employee will be paid only for the time worked. Provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to student employees.
(11.5)	Reporting Minimum “ 6th or 7th Shift or Statutory Holidays
Employees who are scheduled and work on their sixth shift, seventh shift, or Statutory Holiday will be guaranteed a minimum pay of six hours at
- 26 -
their	regular rate. Provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply to part-time or student employees.
(11.6)	Call-In
Any employee who is requested to return to work after completing his regular daily shift and the work period is four (4) hours or less, it shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate with a minimum equivalent of four hours' pay at the regular rate. If the hours worked exceed four (4), it will then be considered as a second shift worked in that day and paid according to Article (10,3). The employee shall be through when the job for which he has been called back is completed or at the commencement of his regularly scheduled shift, whichever occurs first . Employees will be allowed to complete their regular schedule for the balance of that week. Hours worked on the sixth shift of that week will be included for the purpose of the guaranteed minimum week. Provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to part-time or student employees.
(11.7)	Compensable Accident
Employees who are injured and lose pay as a result of a compensable accident during a shift, will receive an amount equal to their regular rate for the regularly scheduled shift to a
- 27 -
maximum of eight hours. However, if the employee has started into overtime, or if the overtime scheduled at the shift end is normally and regularly worked by the employee, an amount equal to the scheduled overtime shall be paid to the injured employee.
ARTICLE 12 - REST PERIODS AND MEALS
(12,1)	Straight Eight Hour Shifts
Employees who are working on a straight eight hour shift basis, other than those who eat their meal on the job, shall receive a paid ten minute rest period and a paid twenty minute lunch period in each shift. If the work period is five hours or less, the employee shall only qualify for the rest period or lunch period, whichever normally comes first, but not both.
Employees shall qualify for an additional ten minute rest period if scheduled to work overtime in excess of two hours and a thirty minute paid meal break plus a meal allowance of $4.00 if scheduled to work overtime in excess of two hours. The paid thirty minute break will not be counted as time worked in calculating when an employee qualifies for any additional rest periods or meal allowances. When the overtime work period exceeds two and one-half hours after the first meal allowance, the employee shall
- 28 -
qualify for a ten minute rest period and if the overtime work exceeds five hours, a second meal allowance will be provided, along with a paid thirty minute	meal break.
(12.2)	Sixth,	Seventh or Statutory	Holiday Shift
and Emergency Call-backs
Employees will qualify for a ten minute rest period when working more than two and one-half hours in any	part shift or	when	working	more
than two and	one-half hours	following a	paid
meal break.
Employees who work more than five hours on their sixth or seventh shift, Statutory Holiday or emergency call-back will be provided with a thirty minute paid meal break plus a meal allowance of $4.00. Employees will qualify for a second thirty minute meal break and meal allowance five hours after the first paid meal break. The paid thirty minute meal break will not be counted as time worked in calculating when an employee qualifies for any additional rest periods or meal allowances.
(12.3)	Out-of-Town Meals
Employees required to work out of town will be allowed up to $4.00 per meal. They will be paid time in which to eat the meal if they so qualify under section (12.1) or (12.2) of this article.
- 29 -
(12.4)	Washroom Breaks
The Company shall allow a maximum of two (2) six (6) minute washroom breaks per person per shift.
ARTICLE 13 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
(13.1)	Designated Statutory Holidays
Employees will be paid their regular hourly rate for regular hours not worked, Monday to Saturday inclusive, on New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and two floating days.
All Statutory Holidays falling on a Saturday or Sunday shall be observed on the preceding Friday or the following Monday, unless changed by mutual agreement.
In the event provincial or federal government legislation requires the observance of an additional public holiday during the term of this Agreement, that day shall become a paid holiday.
30
Designated Statutory Holidays
Thursday, January 1,1987 * Friday, April 17, 1987 Monday , May 18, 1987 Monday, June 29, 1987 Monday , August 3,1987 Monday, September 7, 1987 Monday, October 12, 1987 Thursday, December 2k , 1987 Friday, December 25, 1987 Thursday, December 31, 1987
New Year 's Day
■	Good Friday
■	Victoria Day
■	Dominion Day
•	Civic Holiday
■	Labour Day
-	Thanksgiving Day
-	Floater
-	Christmas Day
-	Floater
•	Individual Floater
Friday, January 1, 1988 Friday, April 1, 1988 Monday, May 23,1988 Friday, July 1, 1988 Monday, August 1,1988 Monday, September 5,1988 Monday, October 10, 1988 Monday, December 26, 1988 Tuesday , December 27, 1988
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Christmas Day Floater Floater
Individual Floater
The Company has the option of granting the eleventh holiday (floater) as an individual holiday to be taken at a time agreed upon between the employee and management. The Company shall advise the Association if it will exerc ise th is opt ion by May 1st of each year.
- 31 -
Should the plant be required by law to observe any holiday other than those listed in this article above, such holiday shall replace the individual floating holiday.
For those who may have taken the individual day, such additional observance shall be without pay that year.
(13.2)	Part-Time Workers
Statutory Holiday pay for part-time employees shall be five hours per day at their regular rate. Employees who regularly work more, or less, than five hours daily shall be paid for the hours they would have worked, had such a day not been observed as a holiday.
(13.3)	Qualifications for Pay
In order to qualify for Statutory Holiday pay, the employee must work the required regular shift immediately preceding and following the Statutory Holiday. However, the employee will qualify for Statutory Holiday pay if he has been excused from working the required regular shift by his Foreman, or has been laid off, providing he has received payment for hours worked during the week containing the Holiday or during the preceding week if the Holiday falls on Monday.
- 32 -
An employee who is absent on either the regular shift immediately preceding or following the paid holiday due to personal illness which is verified by a Doctor's certificate, will be paid for the Statutory Holiday.
If the employee is eligible for any payment to which the Company contributes either directly or indirectly for the day on which the Statutory Holiday is observed during the first fifteen (15) weeks of the absence, the Company will supplement this payment to bring his earnings to a level equal to a regular day's wage.
(13.A) Premiums for Statutory Holiday Worked
Two times the regular hourly rate shall be paid for all work performed on a designated Statutory Holiday.
(13.5)	Statutory Holiday in Vacation
Full-time and part-time employees whose vacations include any of the Statutory Holidays mentioned in this article shall receive an additional regular day's pay, or an alternate day off. Such day off to be taken at a time convenient to the employee and management.
To qualify for the additional day Statutory Holiday pay in a vacation week that has been arranged in advance, the employee must work his
- 33 -
required regular shift, preceding and following the Statutory Holiday, except if absent due to illness confirmed by a doctor's certificate.
(13.6)	Exclusions
The provisions of this article shall apply only to hourly rated employees who were on payroll prior to the date on which the holiday occurs.
ARTICLE 14 - BEREAVEMENT
Where an employee is absent and loses pay because of a funeral for a sister, brother, husband, wife, son, son-in-law, daughter, daughter-in-law, mother or stepmother, father or stepfather, father -in -law , mother -in -law , he shall be reimbursed at his regular rate for regular hours lost on up to three regular work days ending with the day following the funeral.
Employees who experience a bereavement during a booked vacation will be allowed to defer that part of their vacation affected by bereavement. Deferred vacation day(s) will be taken at a time mutually agreed upon by the employee and his supervisor.
34 -
If the employee is absent and loses pay because of a funeral for a bother -in -law, sister-in-law,	stepbrother,	stepsister,
grandparent or grandchild, he shall be reimbursed at his regular rate for regular hours lost on up to one regular day. Grandparents to mean grandparent of employee or spouse.
Where an employee is absent and loses pay to attend a memorial service for any of the aforementioned relatives, he shall be reimbursed at his regular rate for regular hours lost up to one regular day.
Provisions of this article shall not apply to part-time or probationary employees.
ARTICLE 15 - JURY DUTY
An employee summoned to appear or required to serve Jury Duty or who is subpoenaed as a crown witness shall be paid for his regular hours at his regular rate. Employees shall be required to furnish a notice of selection for Jury Duty, or being subpoenaed as a crown witness as soon as possible. For employees working 3:00 - 11:00 or 11:00 " 7:00, the time off should be on the shift following Jury Duty.
- 35
When an employee works after his regular hours on a day in which he served Jury Duty or appeared as a subpoenaed w itness, those hours will be calculated as overtime.
Provisions of this article shall not apply to part-time, student or probationary employees.
ARTICLE 16 - SENIORITY
(16.1)	Probationary Period
From the time of hiring, new employees shall be considered probationers and shall possess no seniority until they have accumulated thirteen (13) weeks' time worked.
Upon completion of the probationary period, the seniority date shall be the employment date. A probationary employee shall have recourse to the full grievance procedure relating to matters other than suspension or discharge. Probationary employees who feel they have been unjustly suspended or discharged shall have the r ight to appea1 as stated in Art icle (8.3).
(16.2)	Seniority on Transfer
Any employee covered by this agreement who is appointed to a position outside of the bargaining unit will continue to accumulate seniority. In the event of a transfer back to
36
the bargaining unit, the employee will return to the plant at which he was hired with full credit for accumulated sen ior ity .
Any full-time employee who is permanently transferred within the bargaining unit will carry seniority provisions with him.
(16.3)	Job Elimination/Combination Bumping
Procedures
The following is the procedure agreed to, between the Company and the S.E.A., for an employee affected by a permanent job elimination or job combination. The individual affected may exercise his/her seniority rights,	to bump
downward, to junior seniority positions. The only purpose of the bumping procedure is for job security.
Job Combination Procedure
If two (2) jobs or more are combined, the employee(s) with the least seniority will be bumped. The bumped employee(s) will proceed through the bumping procedure under job elimination.
- 37
Job Elimination
The Company will advise the Association of any job eliminations or job combinations and give in writing details of such changes at least twenty (20) working days in advance.
Bump ing Procedure
1 ) The employee must fill any job vacancy in his department that has not been filled under Article 18. If the job vacancy is on a different shift, the employee may displace the most junior employee on his shift. If he is unable to perform the vacant job or the job of the most junior employee, he may displace the second least senior employee on his shift and so on until he reaches a job he can perform consistent with his seniority rights.
2)	Once all job vacancies are filled, any additional displaced employees may choose to replace a temporary job in their department on their shift, before bumping a junior employee. Any employees electing this option, must continue on temporary job assignment until all temporary assignments are completed on their shift. The employees must then exercise their seniority rights to obtain job ownership.
- 38 -
3)	The junior employee bumped off his shift will have the option of bumping the junior employee on any remaining shifts. If he is unable to perform this job, he can move up the seniority list as described in item #1 .
4)	The junior employee bumped out of his
department can apply for a job vacancy under Article 19.3 if eligible, or he will be placed in any job vacancy in the plant. Article 19.3 takes precedence over employee placement.	If there is no vacancy, the
employee will have the choice of replacing any temporary work assignment in the plant or displacing the most junior employee in the plant providing he has plant seniority. If he is unable to perform the most junior job, the employee will move up the seniority list as described in #1 .
5)	When a number of employees are displaced due to job elimination, the corresponding number of least senior jobs in the department and/or plant, whichever is applicable, will be identified and the most senior of the displaced employees can choose the job he wants. In the event that two or more of the same job classifications are identified within this group of least senior jobs, the junior man in the job
- 39 -
classification will be the first to be displaced. This process will continue in order of seniority until all employees are assigned job ownership. If one of the displaced employees is unable to perform the job to which his seniority entitles him, he may move up the seniority list until he reaches a job he can perform consistent with his seniority rights.
6)	If the employee is unable to bump in accordance with the above steps, he/she will be laid off.
7)	An employee whose job was eliminated will have recall rights to his department and/or job if that job is reinstated as follows: twelve (12) months if the employee has less than fifteen (15) months seniority; twenty-four(24) months seniority from the date of displacement if additional full time staff is required as determined by the Director of Manufacturing following discussion with the S.E.A. President or his delegate.
8} Employees who do not have plant seniority can exercise their seniority rights in accordance with steps 1,2 and 3.
40
Note ■ The Company and the Association President and/or delegate plus the department steward will mutually determine if any employee is able to perform any job to which his seniority entitles him. Any disagreements regarding an employee's ability to perform a job may be entered as a grievance at the fourth step of the gr ievance procedure.
Recall Rights
Employees will have recall rights in accordance w ith Art ic le 16.8
Job Transfers
i ) When a job is transferred to another department, the employee who has job ownership has the option of moving with the job. If the employee elects not to follow the job, the following procedure will apply:
ii) A The job being transferred will be offered in order of seniority to the employees in the department it is leaving.
B) If no employee volunteers to move
with the job to the new
department, the job will be posted in accordance with the job posting procedures.
- 41 -
C) The employee who had job ownership and who elected not to move with the job, will exercise his seniority rights and follow the bumping procedure as described in Article 16.3.
Exclusions
Provisions of sections (16.1),	(16.2) and
(16.3) of this article shall not apply to part-time or student employees.
(16.5)	Students or Part-Time Transferred to Full-Time
Should any student or part-time employee be g iven permanent employment, the start ing date shall be entered as of the day that transfer is made from temporary status.
(16.6)	S.E.A. Stewards
For the purpose of vacations and lay-off only, stewards of the Association shall, for the term of their stewardship, be granted top seniority on their respective shifts, and will remain on their shift during the lay-off.
The Company will provide up to six (6) working days per year for the purpose of furthering the formal education of the Association Stewards.
42 -
The educational days utilized shall be mutually agreed upon by the Company and S. E • A.
(16.7)	Absence Due to Accident or illness
An employee with seniority absent due to illness shall continue to accumulate seniority and shall return to the position held prior to absence or to one of equal rating providing he/she possesses	the ability and	physical
fitness to qualify for that position.
The absent employee's reinstatement shall be conditional upon	his supplying a	doctor's
certificate when requested by management before returning to work, certifying that he	is
physically able to do the work required.
Employee's on Workmen's Compensation claim are required to keep the Health Centre informed of expected return to work date, updated at least every two (2) weeks .
(16.8)	Discharge, Termination or Lay-Off
Seniority shall cease upon discharge for cause
or voluntary quitting. Employees who have seniority and are on lay-off up to ninety days will continue to accumulate seniority.
For employees with less than 3 years' seniority, it shall cease after lay-off in
- 43 -
excess of twelve months, and for employees with 3 years' seniority or more, it shall cease after a lay-off in excess of two years. Employees absent for three consecutive working days, who fail to notify the Foreman or Plant Superintendent during that time of the reason for absence, shall be considered to have quit employment voluntar ily .
Employees who have been laid off and who have been notified at their address according to the Company's records, to return to work and within three days have failed to do so, without reasonable excuse shall be considered to have quit employment	voluntarily and existing
seniority rights shall thereupon be terminated.
(16.9)	Leave of Absence
Leave of Absence may be granted at the discretion of the Company in an emergency up to ninety calendar days. Leave of Absence may be granted for Assoc iat ion bus iness .
A pregnant employee will be granted such Leave of Absence as required by	government
legislation. When applying for a Leave of Absence due to pregnancy, the employee must give two weeks' notice in writing together with a medical certificate estimating the date of delivery.
W -
Employees granted Leave of Absence subject to the considerations	listed in the preceding
paragraphs, shall	continue to accumulate
seniority during such Leaves of Absence.
Leave of Absence for reasons other than emergency ,	compass ionate	grounds, S.E.A.
business or pregnancy may be granted subject to the requirements of business and other reasons at the discretion of management to an employee who has completed two years of service and has not been granted a Leave of Absence under this clause in the preceding three years.
Applications for Leaves of Absence under this clause will normally only be considered for the months of October to June, inclusive. Weeks which include or precede or immediately follow a Statutory Holiday usually require our entire work force, therefore, Leaves of Absence will normally not be granted during those periods . Leaves of Absence under this clause will normally not exceed three weeks.
When planning activities for which a Leave of Absence is anticipated, employees are expected to make maximum use of vacation schedules to which they are entitled. Employees are expected to exercise discretion in judgement when submitting requests for Leave of Absence.
- «
Absences should be planned as far in advance as possible.
Management's decision in granting or refusing such leave will not be arbitrable. In the event that absence is granted under the provisions of this article seniority shall continue to accumulate.
Welfare plans described in Article 23.2, 23.3 and 23.6 will be continued for the Leave of Absence. The employee will	reimburse the
Company (other than pregnancy leave) for the cost of these benefits at $10.00 per week for an employee without dependents, and $22.00 per week for an employee with dependents. Contributions to the Company Pension Plan (21.4) will be suspended for the leave of absence.
(16.10)	Provisions for Trainees
Persons whom the Company is training to fill technical, commercial, or supervisory positions may be employed or retrained in employment in plant operations irrespective of the seniority provisions of this article, for a period of not longer than two years. This paragraph shall apply to trainees of the Company. The Secretary of the Association shall be advised of such appointments.
46
ARTICLE 17 - LAY-OFFS AND RECALLS
(17.1)	Order of Lay-Offs
When necessary to reduce the work force, the order of lay-off shall be:
First ■ Casual, part-time and student employees
Second - Probationary employees, provided that the remaining employees
can satisfactorily perform the jobs assigned.
Third ■ Employees with seniority in order of seniority, provided that
the remaining employees can satisfactorily perform the jobs assigned.
Employees who can qualify reasonably quickly will be given an opportunity to do so. Where such employee cannot qualify reasonably quickly, the job will be given to the second most junior employee in the plant and so on up the line until a job is reached that he can perform satisfactorily or qualify for reasonably quickly.	Those	given such	opportunity to
qualify, must within one week, have the ability to perform the job satisfactorily.
47 -
Plant seniority employees may choose between being assigned to best advantage or taking a lay-off provided that there are remaining full-time employees at work who are qualified to perform the available work.
(17.2)	Order of Recall
When increasing the work force, the reverse procedure to lay-offs will be followed.
Any employee who has been laid off and who has been notified at his address, according to the Company's records, to return to work and within three days has failed to do so without reasonable excuse, shall be considered to have quit his employment voluntarily.
(17.3)	S.E.A. Notification
The Association Secretary shall receive prior notification of all lay-offs and recalls.
(17.4)	Benefits on Lay-off
Laid-off employees with seniority will continue to be covered under Article 23 (except Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability) for up to eight weeks of lay-off.
Up to five additional weeks' coverage will be automatically provided at the employee's expense if lay-off continues. This cost of continued
- 48 -
coverage will be deducted from the employee's first pay cheque upon recall.
(17.5)	Plant Closing
Employees with a minimum of twelve (12) months seniority shall be eligible for transfer to another division of the Company including Kitchener as permanent vacancies occur based on the provisions of Article (18.1) without loss of seniority. Benefits shall continue until the end of the month following the month in which the layoff occurs. These provisions shall apply where lay-offs occur due to a plant closing or partial closing.
If the employee declines a transfer to another division of the Company, the following severance schedule shall apply:
- k9 -
Years_of_Com£leted_Service
Amount
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11 to 20 21 and over
$ 235.00
280.00
395.00
515.00
650.00
780.00
900.00
1.035.00
1.160.00
1,300.00
The 10 year a 1 lowance plus $205.00 for each year over 10.
The 20 year allowance plus $260.00 for each year over 20.
(17.6)	Exclusions
The provisions of this article shall not apply to part-time or student employees.
ARTICLE 18 - PROGRESSION
(18.1)	Job Progression
The Company agrees to recognize the principle of seniority in job progression in a fair and equitable manner having regard not only to the length of service, but as well, to the
- 50 -
knowledge, training, skill, efficiency, and physical fitness of the employee or employees concerned to do the work assigned.
(18.2)	Job Vacancies
When a permanent job vacancy occurs within the plant, the vacancy will be posted on the plant notice board for two (2) working days.
Interested employees in the plant will make application to their Foreman. Applications shall be considered according to the same principle as defined in Article (18.1).
When an applicant on the same rated job is accepted, the change will be made as quickly as possible without undue disruption within the plant. When an applicant on a lower rated job is accepted, the move will be made promptly.
Applications from any employees for a posted vacancy, other than progression, will not be considered within six (6) months of granting such previous application.
(18.3)	Exclusions
The provisions of this article shall not apply to part-time and student employees.
- 51
ARTICLE 19 - TRANSFERS
(19,1)	Temporary Transfers
Re-assignment to another department will be on a voluntary basis by seniority. If there are no volunteers, the Company will transfer farm-in employees out of the department and then the most junior employee, subject to the requirements of the business and the qualifications of employees to do the work required.
An employee who is temporarily transferred out of his own department or temporarily re-assigned within his own department on a repetitive basis may register his objection to such repetitive transfer or re-assignment, in which case the Company will make a reasonable effort to obtain a replacement, subject to seniority rights, who can perform the work satisfactorily.
Transfers will be done on a per shift basis as much as possible.
The Company may temporarily transfer any employee from one job to another, but no such temporary transfer shall exceed three (3) months. Pay rates for employees on temporary transfer shall be paid according to the provisions of Article 9.3.
52
(19.2)	Permanent Transfer
Any employee permanently transferred to another job will be paid his existing rate or the rate of the job to which he has transferred, whichever is the lesser. When qualified, or within three months his rate shall be adjusted to the prevailing job rate. On jobs requiring a high degree of skill, it may be mutually agreed between the Company and the Association, that a longer period is justified.
Qualified as used above shall mean the ability to regularly perform the job without instruction or assistance.
(19.3)	Application for Transfer
Employees making application to transfer from one job to another should file such application with the Plant Superintendent . Applications filed with the Plant Superintendent will be processed, in duplicate, and one copy forwarded to the Association.
The Company will consider all the circumstances reasonably and fairly before giving its decision. However, the Company and the Association agree that, at times, due to the demands of the production schedule, employee training, and for like reasons related to the need to maintain efficient operations, it may be
- 53 -
necessary to regulate the frequency by which transfers will be granted.
Applications from an employee, for other than progression, will not be considered within twelve (12) months of granting such previous application.
Employees who accept such a transfer will do so with the understanding that they will be paid their existing rate or the rate of the job to which they have transferred, whichever is the lesser.
Should transferred employees be paid a rate lower than the rate of the job to which they are transferred under this Article, the rate will be increased to the rate of the new job in accordance with Article (9.4).
Transfers made under this Article do not alter and are not subject to the provisions of temporary or permanent transfers contained in Articles (19.1) and (19.2).
ARTICLE 20 - VACATIONS
(20.1 ) Vacation Year
The vacation year will be from May 1st to the following April 30th.
54
(20.2)	Length of Service
The length of vacations will be based on the length of service and shall be calculated from the	employment	date	for each employee	to the
30th of April of each year.
(20.3)	Vacation Schedule
The length of vacation will be determined on the following schedules.
a)	Employees with one full year's service will receive two weeks' vacation.
b)	Employees	with	five full years'	service
will receive three weeks' vacation.
C) Employees with ten full years' service will receive four weeks' vacation.
d)	Employees with eighteen full years' service will receive five weeks' vacation.
e)	Employees	with	twenty-five full	years'
service will receive six weeks' vacation.
f)	Employees	with	thirty-five full	years'
service will receive seven weeks' vacation.
(20.4)	Completion of Required Service Employees who after May 1st and prior to the
end	of the vacation year reach the	service
required to entitle them to an additional week of vacation, in accordance with the vacation schedule in paragraph (20.3) (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f), will become eligible for such
- 55 -
additional week of vacation on the completion of the required years of service as of their individual date of employment.
(20.5)	Advance Vacation
Employees who have vacation entitlement earned by May 1st during any vacation year may draw the earned portion of such vacation on or after January 1st preceding the vacation period.
(20.6)	Vacation Pay
(a)	Full-Time
Vacation pay shall be the regular daily or weekly hours at the employee's regular hourly or weekly rate in effect at the time of vacation.
The amounts stated above will be reduced by 1/52 for each week of absence during the previous vacation year excepting absences which are:
• with permission up to twenty working days annually;
■ due to lay-off up to twenty working days annually;
- up to (1 ) one year maximum from date of injury due to compensable accident covered under the Workmen's Compensation Act;
56 -
- due to sickness which exceeds the following scale --
- 15 weeks	from	date	of	illness for	
employees	with	less	than 5		years'
seniority;					
- 26 weeks	from	date	of	illness for	
employees	with	less	than 12		years'
seniority;					
- 52 weeks	from	date	of	illness for	
employees	with	more	than 12		years'
seniority.					
Employees returning from long term absence will only be considered as being back to work upon the completion of two weeks' (10 working days) continuous	attendance following	such
absence.
In add it ion, vacat ion pay on overt ime and premium earnings calculated at 2% times the number of weeks of vacation entitlement will be paid in a lump sum once a year, to be distributed no later than the third pay week of May or sooner if available.
Vacation pay supplement will be paid to the family of an employee whose employment has been terminated due to death.
57 -
(b)	Part-Time, Student, Casual or Discharged Employees
Part-time, student and discharged employees will be eligible for vacation pay as provided by the Employment Standards Act.
(c)	Terminations
Any full-time employee who voluntarily leaves the service of the Company, shall be entitled to a proportionate vacation pay allowance based on that portion of the year worked since May 1st and the total number of completed years of continuous service according to the provisions of Article (20.6) (a).
(20.7)	Choice of Vacation
Employees shall, as far as possible, be given choice of vacation in order of seniority.
The times at which vacations shall be taken shall be fixed by the Company.
The third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh week of vacation shall be taken during the months of October to May, inclusive, or at the convenience of the Company.
(20.8)	Statutory Holiday in Vacation Week Hourly-rated full-time and part-time employees
- 58 -
whose vacations include any of the Statutory Hoiidays mentioned in Article 13 sha11 receive an additional regular day's pay, or an alternate day off. Such day off to be taken at a time convenient to the employee and management.
To qualify for the additional day Statutory Holiday pay in a vacation week that has been arranged in advance, the employee must work his required regular shift preceding and following the Statutory Holiday, except if absent due to illness confirmed by a doctor's certificate.
(20.9)	No Accumulation
Vacations with pay shall not be accumulated from year to year. Employees must take their vacations within their vacation year, except as provided in Article (20.5), or with Management's consent.
ARTICLE 21 - RETIREMENT
(21.1)	Normal Retirement
Normal retirement shall be at age 65.
(21.2)	Optional Early Retirement
(a) An employee may retire before his normal retirement age and be entitled to a pension on the following basis:
59
unreduced actuarially for the period 48 months immediately prior to the employee's normal retirement date.
(21.2)
(b) The Company will provide an early retirement incentive option of $275.00 per month per year supplement to employees sixty-one (61) years of age or over who retire between February 1 ,	1987 to
May 1,1987, and between February 1,1988 to May 1, 1988 and between October 1, 1988 to December 31, 1988. Payable from date of retirement and ceasing at age sixty-five (65) or upon death if it occurs before age s ixty-five (65).
(21.3)	Canada Pension Plan
All employees must contribute to the Canada Pension Plan.
(21.4)	Company Pension Plan
It will be a condition of employment for new employees to participate in the Company Pension Plan for which they are eligible after completing two (2) years of service effective January 1 , 1987,
Total contributions by an employee will be 2.4% of earnings to the YMPE and 4% in excess of those earnings to the Company Pension Plan.
- 60 -
Pension Plan vesting (lock-in) will take place after two (2) years membership for pension earned from January 1, 1987.
Benefits from the Company Pension Plan at normal retirement will be $50.00 per year for each $100.00 contribution made by the employee.
Non -Contr ibutory Supplement The non-contributory pension supplement shall be $10.50 per month for each year of service paid to all active employees for continuous service prior to December 31, 1988.
Contributory Supplement
A contributory pension supplement of $3.30 per month for each full year of Company Pension Plan participation prior to December 31 , 1988 shall be paid to the employees.
All the above Company Pension Contributory and Non-Contributory Supplements are guaranteed for a m inimum of s ixty (60) monthly payments.
(21.5)	Exclusions
Probationary, part-time and student employees are excluded from item (21.4).
- 61 -
ARTICLE 22 - SAFETY, HEALTH AND SANITATION
The Company shall continue to make normal provisions for the safety and health of employees during the hours of their employment.
Protective devices and other equipment necessary to safeguard employees from injury shall be provided by the Company and must be used by the employee.
Cleanliness in dressing rooms and washrooms is to be maintained at all times.
Cleanliness, good housekeeping, and sanitation are a prerequisite to the production of quality products.
Privacy in washrooms, as defined by the Health and Safety Act, will be provided by the Company.
Work uniforms and equipment must not be removed from the plant.
Employees are required to observe good housekeeping and sanitation procedures and maintain high standards of personal hygiene and health.
62 -
Employees will, and the Association shall, encourage its members to co-operate fully in maintaining cleanliness and orderliness in the use of all facilities and devices provided by the Company.
ARTICLE 23 - WELFARE PLANS
(23.1)	Eligibility
It will be a condition of employment for new employees to enroll in the Company Benefit Plans when they become eligible.
Full-time employees are eligible for coverage in the following benefit plans (except (23.5) Income Continuance) after they have accumulated 13 weeks of service. Eligibility for Income Continuance wilt take effect after 2 years of accumulated service.
(23.2)	Health Insurance
0.H.I.P.j Supplementary bas ic benef its and major medical will remain in effect for the term of this agreement and will be automatically updated to any new 0 ,M, A. fee schedule. The Optical benefit is maximum $75.00 once every 2k months. Hearing Aids $500.00 renewable every ten years.
63 -
Spouses of deceased employees will be covered by O.H.I.P., E.H.I.P. and Dental Plans for a period of 12 months from the first of the month following the death.
(23.3)	Life Insurance
Life Insurance for active employees will be $20,000.00. In addition, each employee will be insured for accidental death in the same amount as the Life Insurance.
At age 65, or retirement, whichever occurs first, a paid up policy of $1 ,500.00 is provided. The cost of the Life and Accidental Death Insurance is completely paid by the Company.
(23.4)	Weekly Indemnity
Sick pay is provided for absence due to illness or accident up to fifteen (15) weeks at the rate of 66 2/3% (maximum $318.00) of the employee's regular daily or weekly hours at the regular hourly or weekly rate in effect at the time	of	illness or	accident. Increase
applicable to new claims following the date of ratification.
If the Unemployment	Insurance	disability
benefit exceeds either of these amounts, this benefit will be increased accordingly.
- 64 -
Payment begins on the first day of absence, if due to an accident or confinement to a hospital, and on the fourth day if due to other illness. The cost of this insurance is shared by the Company and the employee on a 50-50 basis.
(23.5)	Income Continuance
Income Continuance is provided to cover lengthy absences due to illness or accident and pays 60% of the employee 's basic wage or salary to a maximum of $305.00. Increase applicable to new claims following the date of ratification.
The cost of this insurance is shared by the Company and the employee on a 50-50 basis.
(23.6)	Dental Care
The plan will cover 80% of all eligible expenses up to the Ontario Dental Association Fee schedule for basic preventative and restorative procedures. This includes the costs of examination, floride treatments, x-rays, cleanings, fillings, extractions, anaesthesia, gum care, pulp capping and surgical services. The plan also pays 50% of the fee schedule costs for prosthetic services such as new or the repairs of dentures (partial or complete).
65 -
Effective the first day of April, 1987 increase benefit to the 1986 J. D. A.	fee
schedule. Effective the first day of January 1988 increase benefit to the 1987 O.D.A. fee schedule.
The cost of this insurance is completely paid by the Company.
(23.7)	U.I.C. Premium Reduction
Effective January 1, 1987 the U.I.C. premium reduction for the period 1985 and 1986 will be calculated on an individual basis for employees currently on payroll at the date of ratification and will provide a premium holiday until the U.I.C. premium reductions have been exhausted.
Effective January 1, 1987, the current U.I.C. premium reduction on behalf of employee contributions towards the weekly indemnity benefit for the term of this contract, expiring December 31, 1988, shall be applied to reduce employee weekly indemn ity prem iums .
a)	Benefits received under this plan will be reduced on a dollar for dollar basis by C.P.P. primary disability benefits applicable to claims initiated following January 1, 1987.
66
b)	Provide for U. I • C. carve-out. Employee receives up to fifteen (15) weeks U.I.C. medical disability benefit after exhausting fifteen (15) weeks of Company Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits . If illness continues beyond thirty (30) weeks from commencement L.T.D. benefits would be applicable. The Company will top off the U.I.C. benefit to ensure the employee receives 60% of his basic wage to a maximum of $305.00 per week. This will apply to claims initiated following date of
ratification.
c)	Change the definition of L.T.D. from "own occupation" to "any J. M. Schneider Inc. occupation".
ARTICLE 24 - CLOTHING AND PERSONAL EQEIPMENT
(24.1)	New Employees
Clothing and equipment requirements, as designated by the Company, shall be provided to employees at no cost. Students, due to their temporary status, shall be required to purchase the first issue of such clothing and equipment as may be required. New employees will pay full cost for the first issue of safety shoes.
67 -
(24.2)	Replacement and Add it ional Cloth ing Replacement and additional clothing and
equipment will be provided by the Company at no cost to the employee when authorized by the Foreman. This clothing and equipment remains the property of the Company and must not be removed from the plant . Students shall be required to pay half the cost for replacement of persona l c loth ing , including safety shoes.
Each employee is responsible for the use and care of the clothing and equipment and is liable for full replacement cost if lost or maliciously damaged.
(24.3)	Transferred Employees
Employees transferring from one job to another or from one department to another, may be required to turn in clothing and equipment not needed on the new job but shall be given any new equipment or clothing required at no cost to the employee.
(24.4)	Laundering
The Company will provide and pay for the full cost of laundering of all clothing.
(24.5)	Maintenance Mechanic's Tools Maintenance Mechanics will be supplied with
necessary tools at no cost to the employee.
- 68 -
These tools remain the property of the Company and are not to be removed from the Company premises.
ARTICLE 25 - BULLETIN BOARD
The Company agrees to provide a bulletin board in a conspicuous place in the plant for the display of Association notices and material, provided that all such notices and material bear the signature of an Association official and have the approval of an Employee Relations representative before posting.
ARTICLE 26 - GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS
It is the intention of both parties to this Agreement to operate within the laws and regulations of the Government of Canada and that of the province in which work is performed with respect to wages and other payments, hours, conditions of work and other related matters.
ARTICLE 27	- COMMENCEMENT AND DURATION OF
AGREEMENT
(27,1) Effective Dates
Except as otherwise provided, this Agreement shall become effective on the 1st day of January 1987 and shall continue in effect until the 31st
daj^j)f^)ecembei^^988 and thereafter, from year to year, unless either party gives written notice to the other of termination or amendment of not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date of expiration.
(27.2) No Strike or Lockout
There shall be no strike or lockout during the life of this Agreement and in no event shall the Association cause, take part in, or tolerate any movement encouraging a slowdown or stoppage of work.
- 70
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEES
J. M. SCHNEIDER
H.W. SHORT D.A. LIPPERT B. KELLER
INC . SCHNEIDERS EMPLOYEES ' ASSOCIATION
JOHN CHRISTENSEN CHARLES LOS I ER RAY ST. CROIX SHIRLEY TEBBUTT VIC POLL LENNOX SUKDEO GARY BREEN
APPENDIX A
JOB NUMBERS, DESCRIPTIONS AND RATES FOR EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JAN. 1/87
JOB #	DESCRIPTION
RATE RATE ON ON 1/1/87 1/1/88
CASUAL/STUDENT/PART-TIME
700	PACK OFF
701	OFFICE - NIGHT CLEAN-UP
702	WASH, CREASE, AND SET-UP
703	CLERK
704	POULTRY	CUT-UP
705	SHIPPER, RECEIVER, STORES
706	TRUCK DRIVERS
707	L I FT TRUCK OPERATORS
708	SANITATION	-	FRYER/PLTRY LN
709	SANITATION	-	FRYER/SO L I NE
710	SANITATION	-	POULTRY CUT-UP
711	SANITATION	-	BEEF BLENDING
712	SANITATION	-	FRONT END GB
720	PATTY-LINE	OPERATOR
722	FORMAX OPERATOR
723	BLENDER	OPERATOR
724	INGREDIENTS AND RELIEF
730	FRONT END POULTRY OPERATOR
731	POULTRY	SET-UP AND	DEFROST
740	DEFECTS	ANALYSIS	CONTROL
8.00 8.00
10.36	10.61
10.36	10.61
10.64	10.89
10.71	10.96
10.43	10.68
10.92	11.17
10.92	11.17
10.71	10.96
10.71	10.96
10.71	10.96
10.64	10.89
10.64	10.89
10.64	10.89
10.92	11.17
10.92	11.17
10.92	11.17
10.92	11.17
10.78	I I .03
10.78	11.03
10.78	11.03
72 -
APPENDIX A
JOB NUMBERS, DESCRIPTIONS AND RATES
FOR EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JAN. 1/87
Job	description
RATE RATE ON ON 1/1/87 1/1/88
750	MAINTENANCE/S.T.P.
751	MAINTENANCE
752	MAINTENANCE CERT. HOLDER
753	3RD CLASS STAT. ENGINEER
755	4TH CLASS STAT. ENGINEER
760	CHICKEN BLENDER
761	Cl CAN OPERATOR
762	FRONT END SQUARE U NE OPER
II .90 12.15 II .69 II .94 12.46 12.71 II .90 12.15 11.27	11.52
10.92	II .17
10.92	II .17
10.92	II .17
LEAD HAND PREMIUM - .35<fc/H0UR
- 73 -
APPENDIX B
JOB NUMBERS, DESCRIPTIONS AND RATES
FOR EMPLOYEES HI RED AFTER JAN. I /87
FELL-TIME HIRE IS $8.55 PER HOER .
BASE RATE AFTER 13 WEEKS IS $9.00/H0UR
DESCRIPTION
RATE
700
701
702
703
704
705
706
707
708
709
710
711
712 720 722
CASUAL/STUDENT/PART-TIME PACK OFF
OFFICE - NIGHT CLEAN-EP WASH, CREASE, AND SET-UP CLERK
POULTRY CUT-UP
SHIPPER, RECEIVER, STORES
TRUCK DRIVERS
LIFT TRUCK OPERATORS
SANITATION - FRYER/POELTRY LI NE
SANITATION - FRYER/SQEARE L I NE
SANITATION - POELTRY CET-EP
SAN I TAT I ON - BEEF BLENDING
SANITATION - FRONT END GB
PATTY-LINE OPERATOR
FORMAX OPERATOR
8.00
9.00
9.00 9.25
9.35 9.07
9.56
9.56
9.35
9.35
9.35
9.28
9.28
9.28
9.56
9.56
- 74
APPENDIX B
JOB NUMBERS, DESCRIPTIONS AND RATES
FOR EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER TAN. 1/87
JOB #	DESCRIPTION	RATE
723	BLENDER OPERATOR	9.56
724	INGREDIENTS AND RELIEF	9.56
730	FRONT END POULTRY OPERATOR	9.42
731	POULTRY SET-UP AND DEFROST	9.42
740	DEFECTS ANALYS IS CONTROL	9.42
750	MAINTENANCE/S.T.P.	11.65
751	MAINTENANCE	11.44
752	MAINTENANCE CERT. HOLDER	12.21
753	3RD CLASS STAT. ENGINEER	11.65
755	4TH CLASS STAT. ENGINEER	11.02
760	CHICKEN BLENDER	9.56
761	GIGAN OPERATOR	9.56
762	FRONT END SQUARE LINE OPERATOR 9.56 LEAD HAND PREMIUM - .35C/H0UR
75 -
Letter Of Understanding #I
This letter will serve to clarify the intent of the parties regarding the hiring of casual employees to full time positions as set out in Ar t ic le 3.1
1)	All permanent jobs will be filled and staffed by full time staff.
2)	Item #I will be offered to existing casual employees before an outside hiring occurs.
3)	Item #2 above does not preclude the Company from hiring directly from outside in the case of skilled trades job openings.
4)	Students will be hired for vacation replacement and volume variations between April I, and September 30, of each year.
76 -
Letter Of Understanding #2
To ensure there is no misunderstanding with regard to "personal necessity time" for emergency situations, this letter will state the Company's position.
"The Company recognizes that from time to time or for certain medical reasons, employees may require more personal necessity time than was agreed to at negotiations. The Company will allow employees more personal necessity time or frequencies when it is absolutely necessary. However, these occasions must be the exception rather than the rule."
In other emergency situations, employees are expected to observe no more than the mornal personal necessity breaks during their shift.
- 77
Letter of Understanding #3
January 29, 1987
Mr. John Christensen President
Schne ider Employees' Assoc iat ion Dear John
Should the level of production at the Ayr facility warrant a partial or total plant shutdown during the Christmas/New Year period, employees will qualify for Statutory Holiday pay on the following basis:
a)	Employees scheduled to work will qualify for Statutory Holiday pay in accordance with Article 13,3.
b)	In the event of a one week shutdown, employees will qualify for Statutory Holiday pay by working their last scheduled shift in the week preceding the week of shutdown and their first scheduled shift in the week following the shutdown.
- 78 -
C) In the event of a two week shutdown employees will qualify for Statutory Holiday pay by working their last scheduled shift in the week preceding the shutdown and their first scheduled shift in the week following the shutdown.
d j In the event of a two week shutdown,
employees who worked their last scheduled shift in the week preceding the shutdown and who do not return to work in the week following the shutdown due to being on lay-off, will qualify for the Statutory Holidays in the first week of the shutdown only.
Note:	Employees who are scheduled to
return in the week following the shutdown and fail to present themselves as scheduled will not qualify for any Statutory Holiday pay except as specified in the last paragraph of Article 13.3. This is applicable to a one week or two week shutdown.
e)	Employees who do not work in the week
preceding the shutdown will not qualify for any Statutory Holiday pay.
79 -
f)	The Company will permit the usual number of employees to schedule vacation during these weeks. The employees will qualify for Statutory Holiday pay as specified in Article 13.5. Employees who are working and have scheduled a week of vacation for the week preceding the week on which the Statutory Holiday occurs will qualify for Statutory Holiday pay provided they return to work on their first scheduled shift in the week following the Statutory Holiday.
g)	Employees on lay-off will be permitted to schedule vacation during the week or weeks of the shutdown for purposes of receiving vacation pay but this will not qualify them for any Statutory Holiday pay.
Yours truly
H. W. Short
NATIONAL EMPLOYEE RELATIONS MANAGER
- 80
Letter of Intent #I
Mr. John Christensen President
Schneider Employees' Association
Dear Mr. Christensen
Th is will confirm our discussion during contract negotiations that the Company will continue as much as possible to follow the current practice of recalling casual employees on the basis of length of service when there is a requirement.
Yours truly
- 81 -
Brian Keller PLANT SUPERINTENDENT