AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
SIGNED COPY,
'fflDWSCE
EXPIRY DATE. MarchST,:

kfjsri
3) I
la>is^4 I
BURNS MEATS, A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS, (1985) LIMITED, WINNIPEG, MANITOBA
hereinafter referred to as "the Company"
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 832,
chartered by the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union,
hereinafter referral to as "tie Union"
In consideration of fhe mutual covenants herein contained the parties hereto agree each with the other as follows:
ARTICLE I__________PURPOSES
1.1	The purpose of this Agreement is to rraintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to provide an amicable method of settling any grievances or differences which might possibly arise; to promote the mutual interests of the employer and the employees. The Ccrrpany and the employees jointly recognize fhe continuing need for maintaining efficient production in the packinghouse industry at all tines and the necessity of rendering efficient service to the producers and consumers and realizing their rrubuaL responsibility pledge full cooperation to that end.
1.2	The parties agree that wherever the tarn "he" is used throughout this agreement, it shall be deemed Id also mean "she" unless the context of the section indicates otherwise.
ARTICLED_________BARGAINING UNIT
2.1	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency.
1
The Company will not bargain collectively with any other labour
organization affecting employees in the Bargaining Unit.
2.2	The Bargaining Unit is ocnprised of all the employees on the plant payroll,
as distinguished from the offiospay roll, with the exception of:
a)
b)
c)
Security Officer.
Assistant Production Supervisor and those above the rank of Assistant Production Supervisor.
the Union.
ARTICIF3
T INTON AD
3 MCI
STRATIQN
3.1	Union Membership All employees shall become Union members and shall maintain Union membership as a condition of employment. A new employee shall become a member of the Union within thirty (30) calendar days following his/her date of hire. The Company agrees to obtain applications for membership in the Union at time of hire from such employees and membership in the Ufcncn will be granted within thirty (30) calendar days.
3.2	Employee Union members shall be considered to have maintained membership in the Union in good standing so long as they pay the regular Union dues, initiation fees and special assessments uniformly required of all members of the Ural Union.
3.3	No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against his/her application for membership or for reinstatement as a member of the Union, nor shall any discrimination of any kind whatever be practised or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union.
3.4	At the tine of hire the Company agrees to provide the employee vith:
a)	A letter which outlines the employee's responsibilities for the payment of Union dues and initiation fees.
b)	'A postcard (exhibit 1 attached Id this Agreement) which is to be
returned to the Union within ten (10) calendar days from the date of hire.
The contents of said letter and postcard will be acceptable to the Company, however, the Union will prepare and supply said letter(s) and postcard(s) with no expense being incurred by the Canpany for such preparation, supplying or mailing, which may be involved,
2
j.5	r^^ff The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of the
employees such Union dues, initiation fees and special assessments uniformly required of all members, as are authorized by the Union. The Company further agrees to deduct the Union dues automatically from the wages of newly hired employees’ first paycheque(s). Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union within twenty (20) calendar days following the end of the Company’s four (4) or five (5) weeks accounting period and accompanied by a four (4) weeks or monthly list of all the names, social insurance numbers, addresses and phone numbers of employees, known to the Company, covered by this Collective Agreement and the amount of each deduction.
The ttrion shall advise the Company in writing of the amount of the initiation fee, Union dues and special assessments authorized by the employees in keeping with the Constitution and I^-laws of the Union, and such deductions diall be deducted in the payroll week next following the receipt of such advice.
3.6	Union Reorpsantative Visits a full-time Union Representative, known
to the management as the Servicing Representative will be entitled to visit the unit for the purpose of observing working conditions, interviewing membefs, and to ensure that the terms of the Collective Agreement are being implemented.
a)	Under no circumstances will a Union Representative interrupt, disrupt or stop any employee while engaged in the performance of their duties. If the Union Representative wishes to speak to any employee, (s)he shall first detain permission firm the Production Supervisor, who shall not unreasonably deny this request.
b)	When entering the plant and before visiting the plant, the Union Representative shall contact the management representative and advise that (s)he intends to visit the plant. The Company shall then allow the Chief Steward or designate to accompany the Union Representative during such visits.
c)	The Company agrees to pay the Chief Steward or his designate regular job hourly rate of pay, up to one (1) hour per week, when accompanying the full-time Union Representative for visits under Section 6,
d)	’The Union Representative, when entering a department, shall first inform the Production Supervisor of his or her presence.
e)	When in the plant, the Union Representative will follow and observe all policies governing plant operation.
3
Shoo steward recognition Shop Stewards and Assistant Shop Stewards,
all of whom shall be regular employees of the Ccnpany who have attained seniority, the number
to be decided by negotiation between the Urion and the Company, shall be elected by the Union and recognized by the Company. A list of all such Stewards stating the department or groups each represents shall be supplied to the Ccnpany. Hie Company shall be advised immediately by the Union in writing of any change in this list. The Assistant Shop Steward will act only when the Shop Staerd is absent from the plant.
3.8	Filing cabinet / desk The Company will provide a filing cabinet and a wall/desk or other work surface for the use of Local Lhicn Officials.
3.9	Bulletin Boards The Company shall designate bulletin boards for the use of the Union at conspicuous places throughout the plant. All bulletins shall be aiirittsd to the management for approval before posting, save and except routine notices calling ttikxi meetings posted by officers cf the Union who are employees of the Company. The Union shall provide a lock for the above provided bulletin board and ensure that management has a key for the lock provided by the Union. As well the Union shall ensure that the bulletin board is kept current and neat.
The Union shall provide, and the Company shall install, two (2) additional "Union Bulletin Boards"; one to be installed in the maintenance department, and one to be installed in the distribution centre.
The Union will be allowed to place notices of meetings in the main change rooms on the available bulletin boards, so long as no more than one (1) such notice is displayed at any one time.
ARTICLE 4________MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.1	The Union recognizes the sole right of the Ccnpany to manage the plant and direct the work of the employees including the right to hire, promote, demote, suspend, discharge for just cause, lay-off, assign to jobs and shifts, transfer employees from department to department; increase or decrease the working forces, determine the products to be handled, processed or manufactured; the schedule of production and the methods, processes and means of production and the handling of same. The Company shall not discriminate against present and prospective employees whether or not they are members of the Union. This Article shall not be used for the purpose 6f avoiding the effect of the other provisions of this Agreement.
4.2	In administering this Agreement, the Company shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a manner consistent with the Agreement as a whole.
4
.RTiriJE S	BARGAINING UNIT WORK
5.1	It is generally the practice of the Company to have work within the plant performed by employees (f the Company. However, because of reasons such as the availability of skilled employees, complexity of the work, the cost of equipment required to do the work in relation to its use, the scope cf the work, the duration and frequency cf the work, the cost to have the work performed by employees as compared to other alternatives, it may become necessary to have the work within the plant performed by outside contractors,
Where outside contractors perform work within the plant and such work £ represents a material change in practice creating an adverse effect cn present employees of a / group affected by such material change in practice, the matter may be processed as a grievance under Article 28 of this Agreement. Should the grievance be referred to an arbitration board as provided under Article 29, the arbitration board will consider the reasons mentioned in the first paragraph of this section in its determination of the use by the Company of such outside contractors and where the arbitration board determines that the use of such outside contractors does create such an adverse effect, the Company will, within a reasonable period, either discontinue the work or have it performed by employees. '
The foregoing shall not apply to the cafeteria, country deliveries, construction and installation work.
The Caipany may introduce work utilizing Cctrpany employees on a trM. or test basis. If the result of such an experiment indicates that, for reasons set out in the first paragraph of this section, the work should be transferred to an outside contractorthis shall not be construed as being a change in general practice.
5.2	Supervisors / Bargaining Unit work
The Company agrees that:
a)	Production Supervisor and those above the rank of Production Supervisor, and
b)	Unless otherwise mutually agreed, an Assistant Production Supervisor appointed to a newly created Assistant Production Supervisor position shall not assume duties that are normally 'performed by hourly paid employees except where such duties are limited to occasional work, negligible in amount, but such a Production Supervisor or Assistant Production Supervisor shall in no way be restricted from work which:
i) is of confidential clerical nature;	.
5
ARJICLEJt
ii) is for the purpose of instruction, experimentation, demonstration, investigation, replacement of an employee absent frcm his/her job during the day, sharpening knives, coping with an emergency. An emergency as herein contained shall not be construed as including work resulting
from additional volume.
iii) is to overcome production difficulties caused by the absence cf an employee. In such cases the Company will advise the Union as to the absence cf the employee and wTL obtain a suitable replacement within one-half (1/2) day.
HOURS OF WORK
y/^
/v*
6.1	For the purpose of calculating if overtime is payable, the Ccmpary shall set out in Schedule "C" the hours of work, which may vary froth department to department and between employees within a department. The hours set out in Schedule" C" shall total not more than eight (8) in any day or forty (40) for any payroll week, unless otherwise mutually agreed.
The Company and the Local Union may from tine to tine enter into an agreement to modify the hours of work outlined in this Secticn 1 so long as those employees affected unanimously agree to the itodifded hours of work.
6.2	Schedule "C" may be changed from time to time as required to mast the needs of the business, but such changes shall not be made effective until seven (7) days notice has been given in the case of a gang, or twenty-four (24) hours notice in the case of individual employees.
When an individual employee is required, before the expiry of the said twenty-four (24) hours notice, to work before or after his/her scheduled hours (s)he shall receive overtime for such work.
Similarly in die case of a gang when an employee is required, before the expiry of the said seven (7)days notice, to work before or after his/her scheduled hours (s)he shall receive overtime for such work. Provided however, when the only change is that the starting time is set back by the Company to a later hour, such change shall not be regarded as a change in the scheduled hours under the provisions of this Section 2 but overtime shall commence after the normal end of the shift. Changes contemplated in a gang schedule will be discussed with the Union before they are made and, where feasible contemplated changes in the schedule for any individual will also be discussed.
6
6.3	During a mechanical breakdown time shall continue to accumulate to an
employee transferred temporarily to other vodc or instructed by his/her Productiori Supervisor to wait on the premises of the Company.
ARTICLE 7___________OVERTIME
7,1	The Company and the Union recognize that it may be necessary for
employees to work in excess of their regular number of hours due to fluctuating livestock receipts and variable volume but the Company will limit the hours cf work beyond such regular number of hours to what is reasonable.
For the purpose of Article 7, "qualified" shall mean the demonstrated ability to perform the job requirements to the satisfaction of management.
a) Should overtime be required, the Company shall notify the Steward of the department or designate where the overtime is required, and said Shop Steward, or designate will solicit employees to work the overtime and will attempt to ensure that sufficient qualified employees are provided for the required overtime.
Overtime will rotate on the basis that the senior qualified employee(s) within the department are provided with the first opportunity to work the overtime, in rotation to thejunior qualified employee within the department and when the rotation is complete another rotation will commence and continue on the same basis.
i)	The Company has the right to alter the overtime line up if it determines that any employee(s) designated to work overtime is not qualified for the available work and the Company may substitute another employee(s) for the employee who is not qualified: or if the Shop Steward or designate is not able to provide sufficient qualified employees to work the required overtime, then the Company will attempt to obtain a qualified replacement from another department. In the event that no qualified
' replacement is available, then the Company can assign the work to the junior qualified employee in the rotation.
ii)	If a qualified employee is inadvertently missed in the rotation, that employee will be given the first opportunity to work the next time overtime work is required.
7
ili) In the event that there is sufficient overtime work for the ^ full rotation, the notice cf overtime will be posted in a , conspicuous location in the department. Employees may request leave from overtime duties on the basis that should a qualified employee not be available for replacement, leave will not be granted.
iv)	Year-end inventory notice only. The Company will advise
employees, by posting a notice on the bulletin boards, two (2) weeks prior to the inventory that overtime is available. Employees who are interested may advise their supervisor of their interest. Employees vaH be selected cn the basis of their qualifications as defined in Section 1 above.
7.2	Continuous shift operators, such as firemen and engineers, may be required to work forty-four (44) hours in a payroll veak, but shalt receive overtime rates for the hours waked in excess of forty (40), but overtime shall not apply where work shifts of varying lengths do not average more than forty (40) hours.
7.3	For all hours worked in excess of the number of hours set out in Schedule "C" an hourly paid employee, other than a continuous shift operator, shall be paid overtime at ' one and one-half (1 Vi) times his/her regular hourly rate or temporary rate whichever is being . paid when overtime commences. For all hours worked in excess of thirteen (13) continuous hours twice such rate shall replace one and one-half (1V4). After thirteen (13) hours of continuous work a second meal will be furnished by the Company, to be eaten on Company tine, not to exceed twenty (20) minutes.
7.4	An employee, who has left the Company’s premises, specially called outside his/her scheduled hours for emergency wok shall be through when the emergency is over. For such emergency work, being that outside of scheduled hours, (s)he shall be paid four (4) hours at his/her job rate or for the hours actually waked at the overtime rate, whichever is the greater.
7.5	Meals / Meal periods
An employee who works more than one and one-half ( I A) hours overtime * after the end of his/her regular shift will be furnished a meal and a beverage by the Caipany, to be eaten on Company time, not to exceed twenty (20) minutes.
Employees other than those who eat their meal cn the job, if required to work in excess of five (5) hours on non-scheduled days, (not to include Paid Holidays falling on scheduled workdays), will be provided with a meal and beverage, but will not be entitled to pay for the meal period.
8
a)	When a ibebI and beverage cannot be supplied by the Company, a meal and beverage allowance of five (5.00) dollars will be paid in lieu,
7.6	ftlllKlfly Work. Double the regular hourly rate shall be paid to hourly-paid ‘ employees for work performed on Sunday except where the work regularly fails on Sunday, in ^ which latter case the employee shall be paid double the regular hourly rate if (s)he works on / his/her day off in lieu of Sunday. In the case of employees starting a night shift prior to midnight Sunday, the hours worked before midnight will not be considered as Sunday work as these hours are part of their Monday shift.
Where an employee's scheduled days off do not include an actual Sunday, then the second day off shall be deemed to be his/her Sunday.
7.7	The payment of overtime, holiday or Sunday rates in Articles 7 and 19 shall not be construed to require duplication of overtime, hcldd^ or Sunday pay involving the same hours of work. More particularly, it is understood that no unforeseen cr unexpected costs, above and beyond the actual premium rate provided for herein because of conflicting provisions elsewhere in the Collective Agreement will be incurred to the Company.
ARTICLE 8	GUARANTEE PAYMENT PER WEEK / PAY
8.1	Based upon the present prevailing hours of work, as outlined in Article 6 i
above, if a regular employee's weekly earnings, excluding overtime, night premium, and knife ^ sharpening bonus, do not amount to the equivalent of thirty-seven (37) hours pay at his/her j ab / rate, hereinafter called the "guaranteed payment", the Company shall make up the difference subject to the following provisions:
I a)	The provisions of this Article 8 shall not apply to:
i) employees hired cn a casual basis for such work as cured hide take-up, snow shovellers, wreckers, and
ii) employees discharged for cause, suspended, or voluntarily leaving the service of the Company.
b)	Overtime payments made to an employee under Section 2 of 'Article 6 of this Collective Agreement shall not be desned to be "overtime" for the purposes of Article 7 Section 1,
c)	The guaranteed payment shall be reduced one quarter (1/4) hour for each quarter hour or fraction thereof an employee is absent from work during scheduled working hours.	.
9
d)	For purposes of foe 37 hours pay guarantee, if an employee does not perform the work assigned to him/her the guaranteed payment for foe payroll week in which such absence occurs shall be reduced by foe number of hours (s)he mussed.
e)	An employee who is employed after the first of foe plant week shall be guaranteed, for such week, that fraction of the guaranteed payment which foe normal hours remaining of the plant veek is of forty (40) hours.
f)	Employees on lay-off notice shall be €rfcd to their guaranteed payment for foe week in which notice is given, and should the notice extend into a subsequent wedc then foe guaranteed payment for such week shall be that fraction of thirty-seven (37) hours pay which the normal hours for those days of the notice occurring in such week is of forty (£).
g)	Where the observance of .a holiday' other than any of the stipulated Ebrid HdLk^s, leaves less than thirty-seven (37) scheduled hours in the payroll wedc, foe guaranteed payment shall be the number of scheduled bouts available for work.
h)	If only part of the employees in any gang receiving guarantee pay
can be used on other work, they shall be etLtifld to any guarantee pay due their gang, plus whatever they earn on the other work, provided they have been present each work day and worked all hours as ordered.
8.2	Subject to other provisions of this Article 8, in a payroll week containing
a recognized Paid Holiday or holidays the "guaranteed payment" shall be the employee’s job rate multiplied by hours as follows:
Hus set out in Schedule "C" less three (3) hours for days apart from recognized Paid Holidays plus eight (8) hours for each such holiday in that week.
8.3	Minimum daily guaranteed Employees, when called for work, shall be	,
guaranteed four (4) hours pay for that day at the regular hourly rate. Employees who leave of their own accord when work is available will not receive this guaranteed miniiiurn four (4) hours pay. Was less than four (4) hours work are regularly scheduled, such scheduled hours shall constitute the guarantee.
10
Part-time employees
In order to meet the demands of the business in filling rush orders, the Company may hire part-time voters excluded from the provisions of this Article for wade of twenty-four (24) hours or less in a payroll week provided the Urim is notified vzhsi such parttime workers are hired. In the event there is a person with seniority cn lay-off, (s)he will be given the fust opportunity for such part-time work provided (s)he has the necessary qualifications to perform such wade. Part-time workers wH be the first to be laid off in the event of a general lay-off occurring in the plant,
ARTICI I 9___STUDENT EMPLOYEES
9.1
a)	A student employee is an employee who is registered full time in a recognized educational institution and who is hired by the Company to replace vacationing ML time employees, and they will be classified as student employees and will be identified to the Union. No student may be hired- while any regular employee! is laid off.
b)	Student employees shall be employees as contemplated by the Collective Agreement, except that:
i) a student will not work more than twenty-two (22) weeks cumulative, in any calendar year, or one hundred and ten (110) scheduled days in any calendar year.
C) Students nay apply prior to their date cf termination to become regular employees and if accepted will be given full credit for rates of pay and seniority accumulated to the last date worked as a student so long as their service/seniority is not broken.
ARTICLE 10________SENIORITY
10.1	Seniority is defined as the length of an employee's service with the
Carpany determined by inclusion on the plant payroll, referred to herein as "plant work", provided however, that an Employee will be on probation and not subject to the seniority provisions contained herein, mtil (s)he has completed seventy (70) scheduled days of employment as contemplated in Schedule "C", on plant work, within a consecutive nine (9) month period and has received pay for each such day at least equal to the minimum provided under Article 8, Section 3 hereof. Until a probationary employee has acquired seniority, (s)he nay be separated from the Company's employ at any tine without reference to the grievance procedure and the Company shall be under no obligation to rehire. Upon completion of such
11
probationary period the employee’s name will be placed on the seniority list. An employee’s service shall be calculated as the elapsed time from the date (s)he was first employed on plant work, unless his/her seniority vas broken, in which event Ihe calculation shall be fern the date (s)he returned to plant work following the last break in seniority, subject to the following:
continuous service with the Company in any capacity prior to September2, 1948, will be included in establishing an employee’s seniority date;
service in the capacity of Production Supervisor or Assistant Production Supervisor prior to November 1, 1966, will be included in establishing an employee's seniority date;
an employee returning to plant work from another part of the Company's service will be credited vriih his/her previous service in plant work, notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Article relating to seniority;
Qi April 1st each year, the Company will issue a seniority list showing those persons who have attained seniority, The list shall be posted in conspicuous places throughout the plant, and a copy delivered to the Chief Steward, Stewards and three (3) local officers at the plant, with a supplementary correction list each three (3) months thereafter. When an employee completes the probationary period and attains seniority, as defined under Section 1 of this Article, the Union will bo advised ty the end of the payroll week next following.
10.2	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights
forfeited and there is no obligation to rehire when (s)he:
a)	voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or is discharged for cause; or
b)	fails to return to work when called, or cannot be located after a reasonable effort on the part of the Company. A registered letter directed to his/her last known address with a copy to the Union, ’shall constitute reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The employee shall within five (5) working days (if the address is in the city in which the plant is located) or seven (7) days (if the address is outside the city in which the plant is located) cf the date of such notice notify the Company with respect thereto, and in such event the employee shall return to work within a reasonable time to be determined by the Company and the Union.
a)
b)
c)
d)
12
(This clause shall not apply to work of a temporary nature of less than ten (10) days duration).
In cases where it is necessary to secure workers in less time than the required notice the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recall the next senior employee, and so on down the list, until the vacancies are fdled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time (s)he shall be given the work for which the next senior employee was recalled; or
c)	has been on lay-off for a period longer than the time allowed in the following schedule:
Length cf Seniority	Length cf Allowable Time
at Date of Lav-off	Qff CWPMy Payroll---------
Less than (two) 2 years
Over two (2) years
Equivalent to length of service with a minimum of six (6) months
Two (2) years v}_
d)	Fails to return to work after any leave of absence (including illness or injury) unless a satisfactory reason is given by the errployee, supported by appropriate documentation,
10.3	If an employee is absent from work because cf accident or sickness (s)he shall accumulate seniority while off work, up to the time limits set out under Section 2 c), except that an employee with two or more years service shall accumulate seniority for a period equivalent to his/her length of service up to a maximum of four years, and shall be returned to the job previously held or to a job wrying a rate equal to that previously held subject to seniority providing (s)he can perform the required work satisfactorily. If the employee would not otherwise have retained his/her previous job and is not placed on a job carrying an equal rate of pay, (s)he shall, subject to seniority be placed cn a job (s)he can satisfactorily perform. Application for reinstatement after the expiry of the allowable period shall be considered on its merits.
10.4	It will be the responsibility of each employee to keep the Company and the Union advised at all times cf his/her current address and telephone number, either temporary
or permanent,
13
ARTICLE 11___________I AY-OFF AND REHIRE
11.1	An employee vaih seniority may not be laid off unless it is found that there is no job available for vhkh such employee is qualified. The Management shall decide as to the availability of a job and the qualifications of an employee, subject to the right of appeal by the Union under the provisions of the Grievance Procedure.
11.2	In the event of reduction of staff and rehiring of employees seniority shall apply, provided the employee with die greater amount of saruxLty can satisfactorily perform the job (s)he is assigned to, or can learn thejob within a reasonable time. However, in the rehiring cf employees if the job is one requiring immediate qualifications then the Company may recall the senior employee possessing the necessary qualifications.
11.3	The Company shall advise the Union when a lay-off is about to occur and
shall on the day of issuance of lay-off notice give the Union a list indicating the name and
department of all employees affected. Similarly the Company shall on the day of rehire give the Union a list of all those employees to be rehired. Likewise the Union will also be advised of all deletions or additions to the Bargaining Unit payroll, in Writing, on a monthly basis.
a)	The Company will provide a list on daily absenteeism, for each day, to the Chief Steward.
11.4	In the case of lay-off employees shall be given one (1) working day’s , notice for every completed six (6) months seniority, with a maximum notice of five (5) working days and with a minimum notice of two (2) voicing days. If the Company determines that additional work is available at the time any lay-off notice is to become effective, the lay-off notice shall be extended to senior employees then on lay-off notice provided they have the necessary qualificationsto perform the required work satisfactorily. If the extension of the layoff notice exceeds seven (7) working days, it will be cancelled.
In the case of recall of an employee for work of less than ten (10) days duration, the requirements in respect of notice of lay-off shall not apply provided the employee and the Union are given notice at the time of recall that such work is of a tenpcaaay nature. Employees shall be laid off from such work in order of seniority.
11.5	Employees whom the Company wishes to train for supervisory, technical or commercial positions outside of the Bargaining Unit may be retained in employment without being subject to the lay-off provision of the Agreement for a period of two (2) years. One (1) month’s notice wH be given to the Union before a selected employee hfrnmw a t^inee. The number of such employees at any one time shall not exceed one (1) percent of the number of employees in the Bargaining Unit.
14
ARTICLE 12 PROMOTION AND JOB POSTING
12.1
a)	Promotion within the Bargaining Unit shall be based on ability, merit and seniority. Ability and merit being sufficient, seniority shall prevail.
Preferable vacancies vail be posted for six (6) full Working days
so that employees applying will be considered along with other senior employees who have suitable qualifications. All jcbs will be awarded within forty-five (45) working days after closing cf the posting period. Employees filling such vacancies will be allowed a reasonable time in vhidi to qualify.
The Company and the Union shall meet on each subsequent posting of a Group Leader’s position to determine what functions shall be posted.
b)	A job vacancy is when an employee leaves the Bargaining Unit after having been employed for at least (twelve) 12 ircnths since his/her last date of hire.
i) In situations where an employee is temporarily absent fcati his/her job function for any reason then thejob (s)he holds will be filled on a temporary basis for the duration of their absence. Such a situation will be addressed by a temporary rate form (301) and will be governed ty the provisions of Appendix B-8,
Employees shall be provided with a five (5) working day trial-period to determine their desire to keg? the granted promotion. During this five (5) working day trial period the employees may exercise their option to return to their former position.
i) Any employee accepting a promotion under Section 1 shall be precluded from making application for another position posted under this provision, for a period cf twelve (12) months from the date (s)he was granted the promotion.
12.2	The provisions of Section 1, shall not apply in the appointment of Group
Leaders as defined under Article 13 Section 3,
15
AgTTCLE 13	PREMIUMS / GROUP LEADER - DUTIES
13.1	Weekend premium. For scheduled hours worked between 12:01 a.m.
on Saturday and midnight on Sunday, an employee shall receive one and one half (1%) times his/her regular hourly rate. The foregoing shall not apply for any hours on Saturday or Sunday for which overtime or paid holiday rates are paid; nor does it apply where an employee. commences a shift on the Sunday night and that shift runs into the Monday a.m., so long as no more than three (3) hours of that shift fall on the Sunday.
13.2	Knife premium.
a)	Employees who use a knife one hundred (100) percent of the time in die performance of their duties shall receive one (1) hour's pay per we^c at their regular rate (exclusive of any premium pay),
b)	Employees w.ho use a knife more than fifty (50) percent of the time, but less than one hundred (100) percent of die time in the performance of their duties shall receive one half (1/2) hour pay per wedc at their regular rate (exclusive of any premium pay). -
c)	Employees shall sharpen their knives on their own time.
d)	Employees shall purchase their own knives, steals and stones.
e)	The Company shall provide safety scabbard, apron and meshed
glove.
13.3	Group Leader Premium and duties An employee in Ihe Bargaining Unit designated by the Cctrpany as a Group Leader, a deputy of the Producticn Supervisor, shall receive five (5) cents above the highest rate actually paid to employees under his/her direction except in cases where the Group Leader is the highest rated employee in which case five (5) cents shall be added to his/her job rate. The Steward will be kept informed by the Company of employees under the direction of the Group Leader. It is agreed that a Group Leader shall not hire, lay-off, suspend, discharge or exercise other discipline. Nor shall the Group Leader transfer employees to other" departments unless (s)he is directed Id do so by a member cf management, ft is further understood and agreed that a Group Leader shall not be retained in his/her department under Article 15 Section 3 solely because of his/her duties as a Group Leader.
16
.3.4	FarMUW PPfl i Wnr^pj! Premiums. Part-time workers and
employees hired on a casual basis shall receive a premium of twenty (20) cents per hour for hours worked between 12:01 a.m. and midnight on Saturday and thirty (30) cents per hour for hours worked between 12:01 a.m. and midnight on Sunday. Such premium shall not be a part of an employee's regular hourly job rate. The premium shall not apply for any hours for which ^ overtime rates are paid.
13.5	Night Shift Premium. An employee whose schedule calls for work to
commence at any time other than between 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. inclusive shall receive a night shift premium of fifty (50) cents per hour for all hours worked between 4 p.m, and 7 a.m., such premium to be continued for hours worked after 7a.m. where the employee was entitled to the premium for hours immediately before 7 a.m. Such premium shall not be a part of his/her regular hourly job rate
ARTICLED ......... LUNCH PERIODS / REST PERIODS ! PERSONAL BREAKS
14.1	An employee shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours after
the scheduled starting tiiie without a lunch period, or more than two and one half (2Vi) hours after the scheduled starting time without a fifteen (15) mdrute rest period, nor more than two and one half (2%) hours after a lunch period without such rest period. An employee who wades more than five (5) hours after the lunch period will be granted a further fifteen (15) minute rest period except where the Company furnishes a meal as provided under Article 7 Section 5,
When a transfer occurs during working hours that necessitates a change of work clothing, employees will not be expected to utilize their fifteen (15) minute rest period in the forenoon or afternoon.
These provisions shall not be applicable in cases cf emergency nor Id continuous shift operators such as Firemen or Engineers.
14.2	a) The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity,
employees shall not ask for additional tine off during the working
day.
b)	The Union agrees that rest periods must not be abused.
14.3	Employees shall not be disciplined or discharged as a result of authorized
usage of time for personal breaks granted by the Company. However as a deterrent to excess usage the following measures will apply:
a)	Employees will have the time used cn each break deducted from . their weekly hours worked.
The following Section 3, subsections b), c) and d) vafll not apply to employees who for reasons supported by radical documentation show a specific condition to exist which necessitates greater use of the washroom.
b)	Any employee who uses greater than twenty (20) minutes total time per wedc, in any four (4) weeks in a twelve (12) month period, shall have all subsequent time used on each break deducted from their weekly hours worked at double the rate of use.
c)	Any employee who uses greater than twenty (20) minutes total time per week, in any twelve (12) we^cs in a twelve (12) month period, shall have all subsequent time used on each break deducted from their veekly hours worked at triple the rate of use.
d)	If an employee reaches a level as outlined in Section 3 b) or c) above, as may be the case, they will be held at that level until they have bad twelve (12) clear months" without any week being greater than twenty (20) minutes use for personal necessity breaks. In such case the employee will revert to the next previous level of deduction and so on until they are returned to the level of deduction as outlined in Section 3 a) above.
ARTICLE 15 TRANSFERS - PE ANEN___________________________________Y
15.1	Permanent Transfer. In the event of an employee being transferred from one department to another (s)he shall retain his/her seniority in the original department until four (4) months have elapsed except that where such a transfer is due to promotion through posting of a preferable vacancy as set out in Article 12, Section 1, his/her seniority shall be transferred to the new department immediately. Adler the expiration of four (4) months in the new department his/her seniority shall be transferred to that department, unless within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the four (4) month period the employee signifies in writing to the Management that his/her seniority in the original department be maintained. Alien a vacancy occurs in the original department the senior employee who has signified his/her wish will be returned before an employee with less seniority is placed on such work.
j
15.2	Rates of pav when prevented from returning to original department
In the case of an employee who has signified his/her wudi to return to his/her original department under Section 1, but is prevented from returning solely because of the lack of a qualified replacement, (s)he shall be paid thejob rate to which (s)he would be entitled in his/her original department or the rate (s)he is paid cn the date (s)he is prevented from returning to » his/her original department, whichever is greater.
18
15.3	Temporary Transfer. When a tarparaiy transfer is made from one
department to another or Id an off shift frcm within the same department, the Company will transfer the employee with the least seniority, always having regard to the requirements of the business and the ability of the employee to do the required work satisfactorily.
Where an employee is permanently transferred to another department and is consistently thereafter returned temporarily to perform the job in his/her previous department because of his/her qualifications to perform the work, (s)he may express his/her dissatisfaction with such transfers and the Company will, subject to seniority, make a reasonable effort to obtain a replacement who can satisfactorily perform the work or train another employee who possesses suitable qualifications and can qualify within a reasonable period for such tarparary transfer.
15.4	Written applications submitted to the Management, on the appropriate
form, a copy of which shall go to the Union, valL be accepted from employees with six (6) months seniority, who are regularly employed on the night shift, indicating their desire to transfer to work on the day shift, or from employees regularly employed on the day shift, indicating their desire to transfer to work on the night shift, So that when a suitable opening arises and a transfer is made, the employee shall be transferred based on seniority, always having regard to the ability of the employee to perform the available work and the requirements of the Company to conduct its operations in an effectiveand orderly manner, The Company will review the "shift transfer request list" on May 1st and October 1st of each year and will notify the Chief Steward or his designate, in writing, of the names of all employees accommodated under this provision.
ARTICLE 16_________MODIFIED DUTIES / ALTERNATE WORK ARRANGEMENT^
16.1	Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of Article 12 and of Article 15,
suitable modified duties or alternate work arrangements may be reserved for employees who have physical restrictions, and those situations so reserved are not to be filled in accordance with „ the provisions of Articles 12 and 15:
a)	Employees returning from occupational injury and who require a modification of duties in the short tarn shall present the appropriate rredical documentation to the Company advising of the 'physical restrictions that apply. The Company will then determine if suitable duties are available and discuss the matter with the Local Union.
b)	For those employees who require modified duties in the long term, they will likewise advise the Company of their limitations * supported by appropriate medical documentation. The Company
19
wall determine what, if any, suitable positions are available and will discuss the matter with the Local Union.
The Company and the Union agree that Janitor(s) and Laundry Room Attendant’s jobs WU go to persons who qualify under Section 1.
Employees who are accommodated under this provision, Section 1 a), shall not be considered to be permanently assigned Id the position or tasks they take up during the recovery period and shall be returned to their regular duties once they have completed the predetermined recovery period.
ARTICLE 17_________LEAVES. OF ABSENCE
17.1	Requests / Granting / Return to Work Leave cf absence will be
granted to an employee who provides written request:
I a) Full-time Union position At least one (1) vreek in advance of the (, date leave is to commence when leave is requested as a result of/ the employee’s appointment or election to a full-time Union position.
b) Political elections - Union business At least two (2) va&s in
advance of the date leave is to commence when leave is requested > as a result cf the srployee's election to a full-time position to a School Board, Civic Council, Esderal Parliament, Provincial / Legislature, the Manitoba Federation of Labour, or the Canadian Labour Congress, with the proviso that the total number cf employees applying for leave under this Section 1 shall not exceed two (2) at any one time.
c)	Employees requesting leave shall advise the Company cf the length
cf such leave at the time cf application for leave. In the event that additional leave is required, it shall be again given in writing indicating the commencement and termination cf such leave, and ,it shall be rarewed.
d)	In the event that the employee wishes to return to the employment of the Company, that employee shall notify the Company in writing of that intent at least one (1) month prior to the date ($)he is to return. Employees on leave under this Section shall not accumulate seniority and upon returning to the Company, their • seniority date shall be adjusted accordingly.
20
e)	Union business Employees chosen by the Union to attend to Union business outside the plant shall be granted leave of absence not exceeding sixty (60) days providing that the absence of each such employee shall not unreasonably affect the operation of his/her department. Such leave will be extended up to a maximum of a further thirty (30) days upon reapplication by the employee. Sariority shall continue to accumulate during such period of leave cf absence.
Unless otherwise agreed, the maximum number of employees permitted on leave of absence at any one time, including for negotiations, will be seven (7).
f)	General Leave of Absence Leave of absence may be granted to an employee by the Company for good and sufficient reason upon application by the employee provided the granting of such leave does not interfere vritti the requirements of the business. If leave of absence is for a period of O'ne (1) veek or more, written application shall be made by the employee to the Company, and if the leave is granted by the Company, it shall be confirmed in writing and a copy thereof sent to the Secretary of the Union. Seniority shall accumulate through periods of such leave cf absence.
The Union will be advised of the final disposition of all written applications for leave of absence.
17.2	Maternity Leave. Every employee who has completed six (6) months
seniority who applies for leave, in writing, at least four (4) weeks prior to the day she intends to take leave supported by a medical certificate from her doctor which certifies that she is pregnant and specifies the estimated date of delivery shall be granted a maternity leave of seventeen (17) weeks duration from the actual date of delivery or the date leave was requested:
a)	In the event that delivery occurs after the leave commences, then the period between the date of leave and the date of delivery shall be added to the leave.
b)	'An employee may apply for additional leave of nine (9) wedcs
which will be granted, however, in no case will the request for leave exceed twenty-six (26) weeks.
c)	Employees on such leave will upon the expiry of the leave be reinstated in the position she occupied at the time her leave commenced or in a comparable position with not less than the same wages and benefits.
21
d)
Seniority shall accumulate through such periods cf leave.
17,3	_____________v_. Every employee who has completed six (6) months
seniority, who applies for leave, in vadtirg, at least four (4) weeks prior to the date (s)he intends to take leave supported by appropriate documentation shall be granted a Parental Leave of’ seventeen (17) weeks if:
a)	i) in the case of a female employee, becomes the natural/ mother of a child,
ii)
iii)
in the case of a male employee, becomes the natural father of a child or assumes actual care and custody of his newborn child, or
(s)he adopts a child under the law of a province; and'
Parental leave must commence no later than the fist anniversary of the birth or adoption of the child or of the date on which the child comes into the actual care and custody of the employee.
c)	Employees on such leave vail upon the expiry of the leave be reinstated in the position (s)he occupied at the tine his/her leave commenced or in a comparable position with not less than the/ same wages and benefits,
d)	Seniority shall accumulate through such periods of leave,
e)	Employees who wish to take parental leave upon completion cf a maternity leave must take both leaves continuously, without break, unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the employee and management.
17.4	Jury Duty and Subpoena oav The Company shall continue to pay an
employee for scheduled hours at his/her regular hourly rate for time (s)he is away when ( summoned to appear or required to serve jury duty or when (s)he has been served with a subpoena issued by the Crown to appear in a court cf law. Within one (1) month cf the-/ employee’s return to work (s)he will reimburse the Company the full amount of any court fees received from the Government. It is understood that the employee will import to work during regular hours that (s)he is not required to attend court and may be required to produce a certificate of service frcm the court office if requested by the Company.
17.5	Bereavement leave
a)	Where an employee is absent to arrange or attend the funeral of a sister, brother, husband, wife, son, daughter, grandfather,
22
grandmother, grandchild, mother or mother-in-law, father or father-in-law (s)he shall receive pay at his/her regular hourly rate for scheduled hours lost on three (3) scheduled days ending with the second day after the funeral.
b)	When an employee is unable to attend the funeral of an irnrediate relative due to geographical Limitations, (s)he shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his/her regular rate for the day of the funeral. Such payment will be made only in respect to the absence fran work on one of his/her regularly scheduled work days. For the purpose of Section 5 b) an immediate relative will mean wife, husband, daughter, son, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-inlaw, father-in-law. The employee will be required to furnish verification of the date of the funeral to the Carpany. Where an unusual circumstance exists wiih respect to the funeral cf said relative, then the employee may present these circumstances to the Company for review. The Company may then, at its discretion, agree to pay the eight (8) hours-' pay under this section for an appropriate day of mourning.
c)	An employee will, upon request, receive three (3) days leave, without pay, in conjunction with funeral leave under Section 5 a) to attend the funeral of a brother, sister, spouse (including common-law spouse), daughter, son, mother or father. This leave is to be continuous with the funeral leave under Section 5 a).
17.6	Medical Aid. An employee, injured while performing his/her work, who
leaves for medical aid arranged through the plant nurse or a Carpany official shall be paid the difference between Workers Compensation benefits and pay for his/her scheduled hours lost:
a)	on the day of the accident and/or
b)	up to a maximum of three (3) subsequent absences occurring within six (6) calendar wedcs of such accident.
The foregoing provisions shall also apply to an employee injured while performing overtime work and in such case (s)he shall be paid for the balance of those overtime hours (s)he would have worked had (s)he not been injured.
23
article 18 VACATION
18.1	Vacation for an employee hired after January 1, 1947, shall be calculated to and in recognition cf service ending with a cut-off date of April 1st each year, and such employee shall beocme sitLtlfid to his/her first vacation not exceeding one (l)week on April 1st in the calendar year next following the date (s)he was hired. On each April 1st thereafter (s)he shall become entitled to a regular annual vacation,
18.2	Vacation for those hired prior to January 1st, 1947, shall be calculated to and in recognition of service to the seniority anniversary date occurring in the calendar year of vacation which shall be referred to as the cut-off" date, but this is not intended to limit regular annual vacations to the period after the seniority anniversary date.
18,3	The duration of the vacation shall be based on the length of seniority
service on December 31st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be granted, as follows:
Length of Seniority
Unsth of Vasalian
1 year and less than 5 years
5 years and less than 10 years
10 years and less than 19 years
19 years and less than 24 years
24 years and less than 30 years 30 years and over
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	we^cs
5	weeks
weeks
weeks
■Z-"
18.4	Each employee shall take his/her vacation during the calendar year in
which (s)he beocmes entitled to it except as provided in Section 6 of this Article. Vacations may be given at any time during the year subject to the demands cf the business. The Company shall make every reasonable effort to meet the wishes cf the employees in allocating vacation periods, preference being given to those with the greatest seniority.
18.5	Where an employee is entitled to four (4) or more weeks vacation, those we^cs of vacation in excess of three (3) shall be taken at a time other than during the months of June to September inclusive.
18.6	An employee eligible for four (4) or more weeks of vacation may, by prior / arrangement with his/her Production Supervisor, accumulate those weeks of vacation in excess y of three (3) fem year to year to be taken at a later time convenient to the Company, taking into account the wishes of the employee. Such accumulated vacations may be taken only as full weeks or multiples thereof.
18.7	Vacation pay shall be granted to-an employee at the time (s)he leaves cn his/her vacation.
24
18.8	If one of the Paid FhlirNyS stipulated in Article 19 hereof falls within the
vacation period assigned to or chosen by an employee, the Company will, at the discretion of such employee;
pay eight (8) hours pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate for such Paid Holiday at the time the employee leaves on his/her vacation. This shall be in addition to vacation pay provided in Section 9 of this Article, or
if advised by the employee at least two (2) calendar weeks prior to his/her vacation period, grant the employee ai alternate day off, with eight (8) hours pay at his/her regular hourly rate, in place of the Paid Holiday to be taken at a time mutually agreeable between the Company and the employee. In the event the employee elects option b) but does work on the day agreed upon as his/her alternate day off, it shall be considered as work performed on a Paid Holiday and the employee shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Article 8 Section 3.
18.9	Vacation pay for each week of vacation for hourly rated employees shall
be the basic weekly hours at the regular hourly rate pro-rated on the number of weeks cf earnings for which vacation pay has not been granted in the twelve (12) months (for first vacation the full period of service) immediately preceding the cut-off date. Leave of absence not exceeding four (4) weeks shall be regarded as vedcs of earnings. In the case of illness certified by a practicing physician or surgeon an employee, upon his/her return to the service of the Company, shall receive vacation credit due to illness up to four (4) weeks annually or such longer period as an employee may be entitled to receive Weekly Indemnity under the Sickness and Accident Plan. An employee upon his/her return to the service of the Company after a compensable accident shall be granted up to one year’s vacation credits as if earnings had been received.
a)	An employee, upon her return to the service of the Company after a maternity leave, under Article 17 Section 2 shall be granted vacation credits for the period of such leave as if earnings had been received.
18.10	Except where otherwise provided by legislation an employee who is
discharged for cause forfeit; his/her vacation privileges accumulated since his/her last cut-off date, but in the case of an employee who leaves the service of the Company for reasons other than being discharged for cause, and (s)he has had more than four (4) months service, (s)he shall receive vacation pay up to the date of leaving calculated back to the last cut-off date for which (s)he has already received vacation pay. (For an employee who leaves before his/her first cutoff date the calculation shall be made back to the date (s)he was employed.) The employee may » request the Company in writing to hold his/her vacation pay for a period of up to three (3) months but in no case shall such period extend beyond December 15th in the year of separation.
25
18.11	Whai an employee leaves the service at the normal retirement age before the cut-off date in that year, the period between retirement and the cut-off date shall be regarded as weeks of earnings for purposes of Section 9 of this Article.
18.12	Where vacation with pay is greater under provincial legislation, it shall replace the foregoing.
18.13	When an employee is injured in a non-occupational accident or becomes sick while on vacation (s)he can become eligible for the weekly indemnity benefit as set out in the Sickness and Accident Elai provided:
a)	(s)he deposits wiih the Company the vacation pay for the unexpired portion of his/her vacation;
b)	(s)he furnishes a certificate of medical attendance satisfactory to the Canada Life Assurance Company;
c)	(s)he takes the remainder" of his/her vacation at a tima granted later in the same calendar year.
In case of sickness, no payment (weekly indemnity or vacation pay) will be made during the waiting period prescribed in the Sickness and Accident Plan.
18.14	Where an employee returns to work due to an emergency while (s)he is on vacation (s)he will be entitled to the provisions of Article 7, Section 4 for each calendar day (s)he reports to work, or alternatively (s)he may arrange with his/her Production Supervisor to take an alternate day off for each such calendar day, during the same calendar year, at a time mutually agreeable to both the Company and the employee.
ARTICLE 19 PAID HOLIDAYS
19.1
a)	Ten Paid Holidays shall be recognized as follows:
New Year's Day	Good Friday
Victoria Day	Dominion Day
' Labour Day	Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day	Remembrance Day
First Monday in August (usually referred to as the Civic Holiday).
b)	Boxing Day (unless mutually agreed that the day before Christmas be substituted in place of Boxing Day).
26
c)	In addition to the Paid Holidays above employees on the payroll as of April 1st each year shall be granted one (1) Individual Holiday, which shall be taken in the calendar year in which the employee becomes eligible for such Individual Holiday, and at a tine to be agreed upon between the Company and the employee. Except by permission of the Plant Management, an Individual Holiday shall not be granted during the period June 15th to September 15th.
d)	Should the plant be required by law to observe any holiday(s) other than those listed above, such holiday(s) shall replace the Individual Holiday. Where, in the absence of such a legal requirement, Heritage Day is commonly observed as a holiday by a plant’s major customers, then the plant shall observe Heritage Day as a holiday in place of an Individual Holiday.
e)	Where permitted under labour legislation if any of the Paid Holidays fall on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed as the holiday and where Monday is also a holiday, the Tuesday will, be observed as the holiday in lieu cf Monday.
f)	If Christmas Day, Boxing Day, or New Year's Day, where applicable, fall on a Saturday, the Friday preceding shall be observed and where Friday is also a holiday, the Thursday will be observed in lieu of Eridfey.
g)	For each recognized Paid Holiday eight (8) hours holiday pay at his/her job rate shall be paid to a regular hourly paid employee, provided (s)he works the full required hours on the scheduled work day preceding and the scheduled work day following such Holiday, unless there is a justifiable excuse for the absence satisfactory to the Company.
In the case of an employee having seniority who is laid off prior to a Paid Holiday occurring in the same payroll week as the lay-off occurs and provided that such an employee, having seniority, has earnings on the payroll in the plant week during which such Paid ’Holiday occurs, (s)he shall not be disqualified for such holiday pay. When an employee having seniority is laid off" on a Friday and a holiday occurs on the Saturday, Sunday or Monday immediately following and provided that such an employee, having seniority, has earnings on the payroll in the plant week in which the lay-off occurs, (s)he shall not be disqualified for such holiday . pay. Similarly, if an employee having seniority is recalled from lay-off in a plant week containing a Paid Holiday and provided that
27
such an employee, having seniority, has earnings on the payroll in such week, (s)he shall not be disqualified for such holiday pay.
i)
j)
Upon his/her return to work, an employee granted leave of absence under Article 17 Section 1 e) will be eligible for eight (8) hours pay for any Paid Holiday occurring during such period of authorized leave of absence.
• •	.	A\
In addition to b) above, such employee shall be paid double his/her ” / job rate for all hours worked on the holiday as provided under a) / above.
19.2	A regular hourly paid employee otherwise entitled to paid holiday pay
under this Article 19 who does not have earnings in the plant wedc containing a holiday, and who is or becomes eligible for Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation benefits, will, upon return to work, be compensated for a paid holiday occurring during such absence on the following basis:
a) Q every employee will be considered a member of the Welfare Elai even though (s)he may have refused to join the Plan or does not have sufficient service to be eligible for Welfare Plan benefits,
ii)	when absence is due to sickness and the holiday falls during the four (4) day waiting period under the Welfare Plan, the employee will be paid full paid holiday pay,
iii)	when absence is due to sickness or non*occupational accident and a paid holiday occurs after the waiting period, but during the employee's benefit period, (s)he will be paid the holiday pay less one-fifth (1/5) of the weekly benefits,
iv)	if a paid holiday occurs on a non-scheduled day during the employee's benefit period, (s)he vail be paid full paid holiday pay.
b)	Absence due to Occupational Sickness or Accident:
'i) where a paid holiday falls during the waiting period for Workers' Compensation benefits, the employee will be paid full paid holiday pay,
iij where a paid holiday occurs after the waiting period, but during the first twelve (12) months of Workers' Compensation benefits, the employee will be paid holiday • pay less that amount (s)he receives in Workers Compensation benefits for the day of the holiday,
28
iii)	if a paid holiday occurs on a non-scheduled day during the
first twelve (12) months of Workers Compensation benefits, the employee will be paid full paid holiday pay.
c)	Individual Holidays will also apply for such payment as prescribed under subsection a) and b) above providing the employee returns to work after December 31st of the year in which the holiday was to be taken.
ARTTCT ,F. 20 NO HARASSMENT
20.1	The Company and the Union agree that no form of sexual and/or general
harassment shall be condoned in the workplace. Both parties will work together in recognizing and resolving such concemsas they arise. Situationsinvolving sexual and/or general harassment will be treated in strict confidence by both the Company and the linen.
a)	Any employee who proceeds under this section shall elect to utilize either Section 1 b) of this Agreement or the remedy offered under the Human Rights Act but not both remedies. Any employee electing to utilize this section cf this Agreement agrees to be bound by the outcome of the grievance and arbitration procedures.
In the event that an employee exhausts this grievance procedure and obtains a different outcome by going to the Human Rights Commission on the same issue, this section of the Agreement shall be automatically removed and can not be used in future by any other employee covered by this Agreement,
b)	All grievances filed alleging harassment will be introduced at the third step of the grievance procedure.
c)	Anyone found guilty of sexual harassment may be disciplined up to and including discharge. In no event will the victim be transferred but, if warranted and deemed necessary, the harasser will be transferred.
4
d)	Other than harassment as defined under the Human Rights Act, general harassment shall be defined as a repeated mistreatment of employees in a derogatory, insulting or condescending manner. General harassment in this section does not include giving direction, reprimanding employees, or correcting employee's behaviour.
29
ARTICLE 21 COMPANY STORES / LAUNDRY
21.1	CQPRfflnv Stores Working apparel and equipment purchased by employees at the Company's stores shall be sold at cost. Deductions for apparel or equipment purchased by a na* employee shall be made out of the first two wage payments due such employee.
21.2	Laundry and Repair service The free laundry service for employees' work clothes shall be continued and the Company will make necessary repairs to such work clothes where they are of the overall apparel type available through the Ccnpary's stores department.
ARTICLE 22 CLOTHING / FOOTWEAR / TOOLS / LICENSES
22.1	Clothing / Rubber Boot Clothing specified under the present plan will be issued without charge to employees who have attained seniority and the Company will establish regulations in respect thereto. In addition where the Company determines rubber boots are required by an employee for the performance of his/her duties, the Ccnpany will pay one-half (1/2) the cost of the first pair and the full cost of all necessary replacements,
22.2	Wind / Thermal Clothing allowance Employees with more than six (6) months seniority, who purchase wind protective clothing (including vest, liner, thermal pants cr jackets) through the Company, for use cn the job, shall receive an allowance of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) toanrS such purchase. Employees with less than six (6) months seniority who purchase such clothing shall be reimbursed up to twenty-five dollars ($25.00) towards the said purchase, on attainment of six (6) months of seniority. FCr a subsequent purchase employees will again beocme eligible for this allowance three (3) years fern the date of their previous purchase under this provision. Laundering of such clothing shall be the responsibility of the employee.
The Company will confirm clothing presently issued without charge to employees under Section 1. It is further understood the Company will continue the practice of issuing freezer coats and freezer caps to employees regularly employed in the freezer.
22.3	Footwear Employees with more than six (6) months seniority who
purchase safety footwear through the Company for use on the job, shall receive an allowance of up to fifty-five dollars ($55.00) towards such purchase. Employees with less than six (6) months seniority who purchase such footwear shall be reimbursed up to fifty-five dollars ($55,00) towards such purchase on attainment of six (6) months seniority. For a subsequent purchase, employees will again become eligible for this allowance one year from the date of their previous purchase under this provision.
30
22.4	Tools
a)	The present practice for sharpening of tools will continue.
b)	The Cfcnpany will supply tools to employees engaged in the maintenance department to replace vorn out or broken tools which are to be turned in to the Company stores at the time cf such replacement. With the advance of technology, the Company recognizes the need for better and improved tools and will agree to such purchases where it deems necessary. It is recognized that employees of the maintenance department require tools in varying degrees in the performance of their work which will involve varying replacements but no replacements and purchases shall exceed seventy dollars ($70.Cl0)for any one employee in a contract year. Any unused portion of this maximum amount may be rarrifld over to the following contract year but such carry-over shall not exceed the total maximum allowance for the year.
22.5	Licences. The Company shall reimburse the employees for the renewal
of necessary licences required in the performance cf their duties.
ARTICI23 WORKPI ACF HEAT I II & SAFETY
23.1	Safety In order to provide safe and hygienic working conditions for all employees, the Company agrees that the minimum acceptable standard for the safety and health of its employees will be as provided in the Manitoba health and safety legislation and accident prevention regulations.
23.2	Equipment The Company shall provide safety equipment free of charge to employees whose work makes it desirable in the interest of safety to use such equipment. The employees shall use and assume responsibility for the reasonable care of all safety equipment supplied to them. In the event that such safety equipment is lost or is not returned on demand, the Company shall be entitled to deduct the cost of same from the employee’s wages. It is understood that the said safety equipment shall not be deemed to include such personal necessities as overalls, or any other article which become the personal property of the employee.
23.3	Health and Safety Committee. The provisions for the safety committee u4
shall be maintained as outlined in the Company safety policy. The parties agree to structure the Halih. and Safety Committee on the basis of up to seven (7) members of the above Committee representing Management and up to seven (7) members of the Committee representing the • Union. Of the members representing the Union at least one (1) must be a representative from the night shift.
31
tbA	Sixteen (16) hours paid education leave Each member of the Health and if
safety Committee will receive sixteen (16) hours paid education leave per year. Members of ' the Safety Committee shall be entitled to select the safety education program to which (s)he wishes to apply their paid leave. A-List cf safety education programs from which a committee member must choose will be generated by the Company and the Union submitting a number of programs to the list.
23.5	Right to refuse In situations where an employee has reasonable grounds i
to believe and does believe that the particular work is dangerous to his/her safety or health the employee shall first report his/her concerns to his/her immediate supervisor. If immediate action to correct the situation is not taken or if the employee is told that corrective action is not necessary but nevertheless continues to believe that the particular work is dangerous to his/her safety or health the employee shall be entitled to refuse to perform that particular work until such tine that a person from the appropriate government agency has come to the employer's operation to inspect the particular work firsthand. During this time period the employee may be assigned to alternative duties that may be available within the plant. Payment for the above noted time period will not be made if the employee refuses to perform alternative duties.
ARTICLE 24 WAGES
24,1	Wages shall be as contained in Appendix B attached to this collective
bargaining agreement.
ARTICLE 25 TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES
25.1	The Company continually strives to improve methods and costs and in doing so will purchase and install new and improved equipment. Such instailations shall constitute a Technological Change.
I
25.2	In the event that a Technological Change is contemplated by the Company, 1/ the Company shall notify the Undon sixty (60) days prior to the implementation of the ^ Technological Change.
25.3	The Company and the Union shall discuss the Technological Change and the impact it will have on the employees in the Bargaining Unit.
a) If it is determined that employees will be adversely affected, then the Union and the Company may enter into an agreement on the matter of those employees affected and the disposition of their . situation.
32
In the event that agreement cannot be reached under Section 3 a) above, then senior employees will be transferred to a position for which they have sufficient qualifications.
Employees who are transferred to a position which causes i) a reduction in their job rate shall have that reduction apply as per the provisions of Appendix B-10.
ii) In the event that an employee with five (5) years of seniority or more is displaced and cannot be acrairnodated a, ;i /under Section 3 a) and b) i), then that employee will be jjf ( ehgible for provisions of Appendix D,
25.4	This Article shall supersede the provisions of Technological Change as
prescribed by the Labour Relations Act cf Manitoba.
ARTICIU 26	INCREASE IN WORKLOAD
26,1	If an employee alleges that there has been an unreasonable increase in
his/her work, the Union iray request that the matter be reviewed vziih the Carpany. Representatives cf the Union (not to exceed two) and, if desired, a full time staff representative of the Union may meet with Plant Management to discuss the facts cf the case and endeavour to resolve the issue. The employee concerned may be present at these meetings if so desired by the employee or by either party.
ARTICLE 27_________DISCIPLINE
27.1	Record removed — three years An employee who has accumulated a disciplinary record will have that disciplinary record removed providing (s)he can work without disciplinary action being taken from him/her for a period of three (3) years from the date of his/her last disciplinary infraction. To qualify for this amnesty, the employee will have to maintain an 80% attendance rate during each cf the three (3) years.
Errployees on leave as a result of Undcn business granted under Article
17.1	e) shall have that period of leave deemed to be days of attendance for the purpose of this Section.
33
,1.2	Employees’ rights to have Shop Steward present
If an employee is being interviewed privately by his/her Production Supervisor about a matter that could result in his/her discharge or suspension, the employee’s Department Steward will be present to represent the employee unless the employee informs his/her Department Steward that the employee does not wish the Steward to be present. If such interview is conducted by a Manager, who is above the rank of Production Supervisor, the employee shall have the Chief Steward or designate present as a representative.
27.3	Notice to Union If an employee is discharged, suspended or issued a
written reprimand, the Ccnpany shall notify the Union in writing within two (2) working days stating the reason for such discharge, suspension or reprimand.
ARTICLE 28	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
28.1	Should any difference arise under this Agreement between the Ccnpany
and the employee members of the Union it shall be settled by the following method, each step to be taken progressively without delay unless the difference has been settled in an earlier step:
FIRST:
SECOND:
THIRD:
the employee or the Steward of the department or both, shall take the question up with his/her Production Supervisor. In respect to any settlement effected by the employee without the Steward, the Steward may reopen the question. by discussing same with the employee and the Production Supervisor. Grievances may be submitted in writing if either party considers it necessary. If the question is not settled by the end cf the next work day; then
the Chief Steward, or his/her designated representative both of whom shall be employees of the Company and members of the Bargaining lint as defined under Article 2, with or without the Steward of the department, shall present the question in writing to the appropriate manager, or in his/her absence the Ccnpany' sdesignated representative. If the question is not settled by the end of the next two (2) working days; then
within five (5) working days the question shall be presented in writing to the plant management by the Grievance Committee of the Union which may b'e accompanied by a full time staff member of the Union (not necessarily an employee), a decision to be rendered within five (5) working days of the date of discussion.
The wording cf grievances may be changed or amended for the purpose of clarification at any time up to and including the third step of the grievance procedure.
34
OURTH:	If the difference remains unresolved, then within one (1) calendar month
of the date of decision under the third step of the grievance procedure, and the grievance remaining outstanding, measures shall be taken under the procedure as outlined in Article 29 hereof.
For the purpose of this section the term "working days" shall not include Saturday, Sunday or any paid holiday referred to in Article 19,
28.2	The Grievance Committee, comprised cf regular employees cf the Company who have attained seniority, shall be elected by the Union, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of that committee. The number of employees cn the Grievance 'Committee at the plant shall not exceed four (4).
28.3	It is understood and agreed that the time limits set out in Article 28 may be extended as agreed between the parties provided such agreement is in writing and signed by both parties.
28.4	a) The employee may be present if (sjhe so desires in any of the steps
outlined in Section 1 hereof. Where the grievor is on a shift differing from that in which the grievance meeting is held (s)he will be paid, alcrg with the Grievance Committee, at his/her regular job rate for time spent with plant management at such grievance meeting.
b) The Company will pay for wages of employees who are involved in grievance investigation to a maximum of six (6) hours cumulative per veek.
28.5	When a decision is reached under any one of the methods outlined in
Section 1, immediately preceding, such decision shall be final and binding and shall be retroactive to the date of the original submission in writing unless otherwise directed in such decision. If the grievance affects a rate of pay it shall be retroactive to the date it was first submitted in writing, or if the cause of such grievance arose prior thereto then the adjustment will be made retroactively to the date the error was made or such other period as may be agreed upon.
28.6	Except as provided under the first paragraph of Article 10 Section 1 if an
employee deems (s)he has been unjustly suspended, unjustly discharged or unjustly laid off from the service of the Company, (sjhe shall submit his/her difference in writing through the Grievance Committee of the Union within five (5) working days after date of separation, and the difference will be considered commencing at the second step cf Section 1 of this Article.
In the event of such employee being reinstated, (sjhe shall be paid for this period during which (sjhe has not worked as if (sjhe had not been suspended, discharged or laid off, subject to such . adjustment as the settlement may determine.
35
j&.l	Should any difference arise between the Canpany and the Union as to the
meaning and application of the provisions of the Agreement, the question shall be taken up commencing at the third step of Section 1 hereof.
28.8	Pending settlement of a difference as outlined in Sections 1 and 7 hereof,
an aggrieved employee shall perform Ihe duties assigned to him/her by the person in charge of the department, provided however, where such duties involve a transfer reasonable consideration shall be given to ability and in the case of an immediate transfer, extreme changes in temperature. Where an employee has a question concerning his/her transfer and the Department Steward is not available for consultation, (s)he nil register Ihe question with the Production Supervisor. The Production Supervisor will arrange to have the Department Steward discuss the matter with the employee within one (1) hour cf such transfer.
28.9	Before a Steward, or an executive officer, (or a member of 1he Grievance
Committee in case the grievance has reached the third step) leaves his/her job or his/her department, (s)he shall first notify the person in charge of that department of the difference (s) he wishes to investigate or process and shall then, within one (1) hour, be granted permission to leave. Should the Steward or executive officer of the Union go into any department (s)he shall first report to the person in charge of that department, provided (s)he is available, giving the difference (s)he wishes to investigate or process.
ARTICLE 29_________ARBITRATION
29.1	Any disagreement, grievance or dispute arising under this Agreement
which is not settled to the satisfaction of either the Union or the Company under Ihe provisions of Article 28 hereof, shall, upon the written notice of either party, be submitted to an Arbitration Board, provided the grievance involves the interpretation or alleged violation of any provision of this Agreement. The Arbitration Board shall consist of three (3) members, one of whom shall be nominated by the grieving party who will name its nominee to the board no later than one (1) calendar week from the date of written notice of its intent to arbitrate the grievance, and one by the other party who will name its nominee within another calendar week, and a Chairperson to be selected by the two nominees no later than two (2) calendar weeks thereafter. In the event of failure of the two nominees to agree upon the selection of a Chairperson, such Chairperson, who will be someone other than a civil servant, shall be appointed as provided by the Manitoba Labour Act.	*
29.2	The matters and things to be considered and the decision rendered by such
Board shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
36
19.3	It is agreed that neither the Company nor the Union will prevent the other party from referring a difference to arbitration to determine if the difference is arbitrable, A question of arbitrability need not be raised during the grievance procedure, If the Arbitration Board determines the grievance is arbitrable, the same Board shall then consider the grievance itself.
29.4	Decisions shall be determined by a majority of the membersof the Board and such decision shall be final and binding on the parties hereto.
29.5	The Union and the Company shall pay the fees and expenses of their respective nominees and the fees and expenses of the Chairperson shall be divided equally between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 30 NO STRIKE. LOCKOUT OR CESSATION OF WORK
30.1	No Cessation of Work. There shall be no strikes, or lockouts during the term of this Agreement and thereafter while negotiations ark under way for a renewal or extension thereof, and the Union and its members shall not during the aforementioned period authorize, call, encourage support or take part in any strike, walkout, stoppage, slowing down or other cessation cf work in or cn the Company’s plant or property which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company.
The Union agrees that no strike vote of the members of the Local Union will be taken during the term of this Agreement.
The Union agrees that no strike vote of the members will be taken during the course of negotiations with the Company for renewal or extension of the Agreement until an attempt has been made in good faith to settle any differences arising in such negotiations by conciliation or some other form of mediation.
30.2	Protective Services. In the event of any strike, walkout or stoppage cf work, the Union shall not do or permit to be done anything by any of its members to prevent powerhouse staff such as firemen, engineers, and an electrician from continuing all or any part of their regular duties in the service of the Company. Furthermore, the Union shall cooperate and assist the Company in taking reasonable precautions to protect perishable products, but such assistance shall only extend^ through such period as the Company does not attempt to restore regular production.
ARTICLE 31_______APPENDICES A. B. C.D.EF AND G
y
All Appendices attached to this Agreement shall be an integral part of this •
Agreement.
37
ARTICLE 32 DURATION OF AGREEMENT _____________EFFECTIVE DATES OF IMPROVEMENTS
The term of this Agreement shall be from April 1. 1994. to March 31. shall continue in force after Mandi 31, 1996, on yearly basis, which in each instance of renewal shall be regarded as the teim of the Agreement, until terminated by either party giving the other party not more than ninety (90) days, and not less than thirty (30) days, notice in writing prior to the expiration date. If amendments are contemplated by either party to become effective in the ensuing term, the party proposing such amendments shall give notice in writing thereof to the other party not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to March 31, 1996. During the period of negotiations this Agreement shall rarain in force,
32.2	The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be effective at the
commencement cf the payroll week next following the date the Company receives notification from the Union that this Agreement has been ratified, except as otherwise specifically provided.
32.3	This Agreement is signed by the duly authorized officers of United Food
and Commercial Workers Union, Local No. 832, and by the authorized local Management of the Company, as evidencing their agreement to and concurrence in its terms.
SIGNED THIS Sth DAY OF DecEM6£ft , 1994
BURNS MEATS, A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS (1985) LIMITED
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL No. 832
38
APPENDIX "A"
HEALTH and WELFARE PLANS / PENSION PLAN / DENTAL PLAN
A-l The Company agrees to provide the following levels cf benefits listed below, as provided by the Canada Life Insurance Company, With the Elai Text being the governing document and the Riles of Application residing With Canada Life Insurance Carpany. Said Plan or Plan Text will only be amended as mutually agreed between the Company and the Union and remain in effect for die tam of this Agreement,
Any employee may file and pursue a grievance under Articles 28 and 29 of this Agreement if (s)he is not satisfied with the decision of Cbnack Life Insurance Carpany. The arbitrator or arbitration board shall be guided exclusively by the Elai Text and metical evidence presented by the parties.
The decision of the arbitrator or arbitration board shall be binding upon the grievor and the Carpany and Cbnack life Insurance Company. ~?a ) c i b 5	//, /lj
/
A-2 The Company shall pay the full premium cost towards all Long Harm Distilddy / Major LfcticaL / Group Life Insurance / Vision Care Plan / Health Care Pension Plans.
A-3 Summary of the Canada Life Health and Welfare Plans
(If any dispute arises in regard to the following summary, the official Plan Text shall 1 be the governing document.)
_______________e_____
Applicable to an employee who is employed by Bums Mats, a division of Bums Foods Limited, at Winnipeg, and who is a member of the Unfed Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local No. 832.
Eligibility Rules
Employees are eligible on the first day of the year in a) or the first day of the month in b) or c) that they have completed at least:
a)	one (1) year of seniority service, with respect to the life insurance, and
b)	the Long Term Disability Benefit, and	.
39
APPENDIX "A"
HEALTH and WELFARE PLANS / PENSION PLAN / DENTAL PLAN
c) three (3) months cf seniority service with respect to the Short Term Disability Benefit and Extended BaUth Care Benefit.
If an employee is not actively at work on the date on which (s)he first becomes eligible for the Long Term Disability Benefit, (s)he vaH have to complete an additional two (2) months of seniority service before (s)he again will become eligible for the Long Term Disability Benefit.
A-4 Weekly Indemnity t Short Term Disability)
Elimination Psriad
0 days for disability due to an accident,
4 days for disability due to sickness or pregnancy, unless during such 4 days the employee becomes confined in a hospital, in which case the elimination period will be equal to the period prior to the commencement of the hospital confinement.
Maximum Benefit. Period
a)	26 weeks, vriih respect to an employee who has completed less than five (5) years of seniority service
b)	39 weeks, with respect to an employee who has completed at least five (5) years but less than ten (10) years of seniority service
c)	52 weeks, with respect to an employee who has completed at least ten (10) years of seniority service.
Weekly Indemnity Benefit
60% of the employee's hourly rate of earnings which was applicable to him/her immediately prio'r to his/her disability, multiplied by 40, rounded to the next higher multiple of one (1.00) dollar, but, for the purposes of this calculation, such earnings will not exceed the maximum weekly insurable earnings as amended from time to time, A change in the amount of an employee's Weekly Indemnity Benefit due to a change in earnings will take effect automatically unless the change in earnings would result in an increase in his/her Weekly Indemnity Benefit and (s)he is not then Actively at Work, in which case the change will be deferred until (s)he returns to
work as an employee.
40
APPENDIX "A"
HEALTH and WELFARE PLANS / PENSION PLAN / DENTAL PLAN
The Company will continue to pay the first five dollars ($5.00) of each monthly premium for the weekly indemnity benefits, with the balance of each monthly premium to be shared equally between the Company and the employee.
A-5 Weekly Indemnity. Long Term Disability cheques mailed
a)	The Company agrees to mail all benefit cheques to employees who are on Weekly Indemnity Benefits or Long Term Disability Benefits, for the period they are not at work.
5) The Company will endeavour to find alternative methods of delivering benefit cheques to employees, always having the view Id speeding up the process of delivery of benefits payments to employees. It is also understood that any alternative methods explored need not be implemented if they add cost to the delivery process currently in effect.
A-6 Weekly Indemnity - Employee contribution frozen
The Cctrpany agrees to freeze the current level of employee contributions for the Weekly Indemnity plan for the term of this collective agreement, A&ndi 31, 1996.
A-7 W eekly Indemnity during Workers Compensation Appeal - Repayment
Employees who are appealing to the Workers Compensation Board for benefits will be permitted to file to Canada Life for benefits under the Weekly Indemnity Han and will receive Weekly Indemnity benefits on the following basis:
a)	That their claim has not already been paid by the Workers Compensation Board. '
b)	That the employee sign a waiver allowing the Workers Compensation Board to pay directly to Canada Life the amount received from the Board in the event that the appeal succeeds, to the extent that the employee has a liability to Canada Life.
41
APPENDIX "A"
HEALTH and WELFARE PLANS / PENSION PLAN / DENTAL PLAN
c)	Any employee who refuses to repay Canada Life, for such money received nay be terminated by Ihe Company after the Company has given notice in writing of the possibility of such action.
d)	In the event that an employee is paid by Canada Life and they are not successful in their appeal to the Workers Compensation Board and should they not qualify forbenefitsunder the Weekly Indemnity Plan then Canada Life will cease all payments and repayment will be made by the employee. In the event that the employee refuses to repay Canada Life for such money received, they may be terminated by the Company after the Company has given notice in writing of the possibility of such action.
e)	Employees will qualify for such payments from Canada Life only if they meet the test of disability under the rules of the TrfeMy Indemnity Han.
A-8 Dental Plan
Effective August 1st, 1994 the current dental plan will cease and all employees who ^ are currently covered vail be transferred to the M.F.C.W. Dental Elan, and at that ^ point the Company will pay to the M.F.C.W. plan twenty-seven (27) cents per qualifying hour for such coverage as the plan provides.
Qualifying hours as used above shall mean all regular hours worked and or paid to an employee which will include hours paid by the employer but not worked because of vacations and holidays, to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week, or ten (10) dollars and eighty (80) cents per week. Such contributions will be forwarded to the Trust within twenty-one (21) days following the Company's four or five week accounting period, accompanied by a check-off cf the number of hours worked per week per employee.
A-9 Group Life Insurance
Life Insurance shall be equal to one (1) times the employee's annual earnings in an amount based on the employee's hourly rate cf earnings up to a maximum amount of insurance of fifty thousand (50,000) dollars.
42
APPENDIX “A“
HEALTH and WELFARE PLANS / PENSION PLAN / DENTAL PLAN
A-10
Pension Plan
a) The Employer agrees to contribute to the Trust Fund of^Ahe Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan forty-seven (47) cents per hour paid for all full-time employees who have completed 504 regular hours of service.
b)	For the purpose of paragraph a) above, hours paid means ell regular hours worked and/or paid to employees.
The said hours paid will include hours paid by the Employer for the tme not worked because of vacations, paid holidays, bereavement leave, jury duty, to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
c)	The Employer shall forward all contributions, together with a list of all full-tine employees and the number of hours paid and worked for each employee in each reporting period, within fifteen (15) days following the end of the Employer’s four (4) or five (5) week accounting period, as per current practice of remittance.
A-11 Lone Term Disability Benefit
Definition of i	Stringent definition of disability
Elimination Period
a)	182 days, with respect to an employee who has less than five (5) years of seniority service
b)	273 days, with respect to an employee who has completed at least five (5) years but less than ten (10) years of seniority service
c)	365 days, with respect to an employee who has completed at least ten (10) years of seniority service
Eone Term Disability Income Benefit
$1,300 per month. There will be no change in the amount of Long Term Disability
Income Benefit during an employee’s disability period.
43
APPENDIX "A"
HEALTH and WELFARE PLANS / PENSION PLAN / DENTAL PLAN
No employee who is in receipt of a benefit under the Pension and Group Life Insurance Plan of Bums Foods Limited will be eligible to receive a Long H&m ^Disability Income Benefit
The Employer to pay full premium cost of Long Term Disability Benefit
A-12 Extended Health-Care Benefit EUgMLBaaiM
a)	v Dregs with the following exceptions: will not include contraceptive drugs. Nursing Care - Ehrt A,
b)
c)
Ambulance, with the following exceptions and restrictions: Ehrt A - Maximum of seventy-five (75.00) dollars during any one continuous period cf disability, for each employee and each eligible dependent.
d)	Services and supplies - Eh± A, C, E, F.
e)	Osteopathy or Chiropractic, with the following exceptions and restrictions:
' Part A - maximum of ten (10) treatments per calendar year for each employee and each eligible dependent.
* Maximum amount payable for treatment will be equal to the minimum amount specified for an office treatment by a physician in the Medical Association Schedule of fees for the province or territory in which the employee or eligible dependent resides.
-/ Part B - not applicable.
f)	v Visioncare, with the following exceptions and restrictions:
■ Part A - maximum of one hundred & ten (110.00) dollars for one complete set of safety lenses / lenses and Safety Ecanes / frames during any 24 consecutive months, for each employee and eligible dependent.
44
APPENDIX "A"
HEALTH and WELFARE PLANS / PENSION PLAN / DENTAL PLAN
Aids, with the following restrictions:
-	Maximum of five hundred (500.00) dollars, for each employee and each eligible dependent.
h)	Hospital, with the following exceptions and restrictions:
-	Part A - not applicable;
-	Bet B - when incurred within the province or territory in which the employee or eligible dependent resides;
* Bet C - when incurred within the province or territory in which the employee or eligible dependent resides;
*	Bet D - not applicable.
i)	Out-patient Care, with the following exceptions and restrictions:
*	Maximum of twenty-five (25.00) chllars during any one continuous period of disability for each employee and each eligible dependent.
j)	Physician's Services.
k)	Diagnostic Tests.
Individual Deductible:	$25.00
Family Deductible:	$50.00
The individual deductible and family deductible are not applicable to Visioncare or Hearing Aid expenses.
Co-insurance
" With respect to Visioncare and Hearing Aid expenses one hundred (100) percent
- With respect to all other eligible expenses eighty-five (85) percent The Employer to pay the full premium cost of Extended Haffii Care Benefit.
45
APPENDIX "A"
HEALTH and WELFARE PLANS / PENSION PLAN / DENTAL PLAN
A-13 Pregnancy
Group Insurance benefits indicated above required because of illness or injury directly attributable Id pregnancy will be granted to employees under the same conditions as these benefits are granted to other employees.
A-14	Medical Certificates
The Company will forego the requirement of employees providing a medical
certificate upon their return to work following short term illness or accident not
covered by Workers Compensation or under the Company Sick Pay Plan.
It is understood by the parties that the matter of habitual and excessive absenteeism will continue to be treated as a disciplinary matter. In the event that disciplinary action is contemplated by the Company for habitual or excessive absenteeism, the employee may present a medical certificate to the Company in defense. Such medical information will be taken into consideration by the Company in assessing the disciplinary measures it may take.
4
46
APPENDIX "B"
WAGES
B-l Labour rates and Schedule of Grades.	----- /
a)	Labour. Rates
The labour rate for the duration of this Agreement shall be $15,87,
b)	Schedule of Grades. The Schedule of Grades in effect shall be as follows: Cents Per Hour Above the Labour Grade
0	0 0
1	8
2	16
3	24
4	32
5	40
6	48
7	56
8	64
9	72
10	80
11	88
12	96
13	$1.04
14	1.12
15	$1.20	30	$2.40
16	1.28	31	2.48
17	1.36	32	2.56
18	1.44	33	2.64
19	1.52	34	2.72
20	1.60	35	2.80
21	1.68	36	2.88
22	1.76	37	2.96
23	1.84	38	3.04
24	1.92	39	3.12
25	2.00	40	3.20
26	2.08	41	3.28
27	2.16	42	3.36
28	2.24	43	3.44
29	2.32	44	3.52
B-2 Grade for New or Changed ,Tob. The Company will establish the grade for a new or changed job by comparing the job with similar jobs already contained in the Schedule of Grades. If there is no comparable job included in the Schedule of Grades, the Company will in the establishment of the grade consider rates paid for the same or similar jobs in other meat processing plants.
The Plant Management will send written advice of the established grade to the Chief Steward of the Local Union.
Within fifteen (15) calendar days of notification described in the preceding paragraph, and upon objection by the Local Union to the newly established grade, the Management will discuss the matter with the Unit Chairperson or his/her designate. If the matter is not settled within fifteen (15) calendar days after such
47
APPENDIX "B"
WAGES
B-3
discussion it will be referred in writing for further review, such written notice to contain a submission in support of the objection Id the newly established grade,
If the matter is not settled within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of written notice, the parties shall appoint a qualifiedconsultant in Job Evaluation to determine the grade and his/her decision shall be final and binding. The expense of such consultant will be shared equally by the Ccrrpany and the Union.
If the parties cannot agree on the appointment of a qialifieri consultant in Job Evaluation then proceedings will be taken under the fourth step of Article 28. In assessing the grade established by the Company for the new or changed job, the arbitration board shall consider the factors set out in the first paragraph of this section in reaching its decision.
Application of Rates
The term "grade" shall mean the rate set down for labour qperatLcns under the Company's schedule, provided however the following rates apply for the first twenty-four (24) months of earnings:
a) Starting Rate
Upon completion of twelve (12) months Upon completion of twenty-four (24) months Upon completion of thirty-six (36) months
$9.50
b)	Twelve (12) months shall equal fifty-two (52) wedcs. In order for an employee to qualify for an increment they nust work at least one day in each of the fifty-two (52) weeks. For each week that an employee fails to work at least one day, the fifty-two (52) period will be extended by that/those week(s).
Vacations shall count as days of work, as will written authorized leaves over which the Company has control.
d
B-4 The starting rate will apply to employees at time of hire, with exception cf those classified as improvers or above in the Mechanical Department, and those hired in Fourth Class ShiftEngineers or above in the Powerhouse. The starting rate for these two departments shall be the labour rate provided, however, that the labour rate shall be reduced by nine (9) cents until the completion cf six (6) weeks of earnings.
48
APPENDIX "B"
WAGES
Thereafter, the labour rate will be reduced by only four (4) cents until the completion of twelve (12) weeks of earnings. Earnings referred to above means earnings at least equal to the guaranteed payment in any fourteen (14) month period.
B-5 The term "job rate“ shall mean the hourly rate determined by a combination of grades of work regularly performed by the employee, and the job rate shall be rounded off to correspond to the nearest grade after calculating as follows:
a)	The two highest grades covering work regularly performed by the employee shall be used; the highest at the actual time worked and the second highest for the remainder of the time worked.
b)	When an employee spends fifty (50) percent 'or more cf his/her time on the highest grade, then the highest grade shall become the job rate.
B-6 A new employee or a recalled employee shall receive the job rate for the work to which (s)he is assigned when (s)he becomes qualified but such qualifying period shall not be longer than six (6) wedcs.
B-7 Permanent Transfer. Form 300 shall indicate a permanent transfer and a copy of same shall be given to the Chief Steward immediately after the employee is advised. If an employee is transferred permanently to work where the job rate is higher, (s)he shall receive the higher rate when (s)he becoties qualified, but for purposes of application cf rates such qualifying period shall not exceed six (6) consecutive weeks, after which the higher job rate shall apply.
If an employee is permanently transferred to work where the job rate is lower, such lower rate shall start twelve (12) weeks, including lay-off, after the date of such transfer.
The twelve (12) week period set out in the foregoing paragraph shall be extended one (1) day for each day the employee is required to return temporarily to his/her previous higher rated work. Where the employee returns temporarily to his/her previous higher rated work for a period in excess of three (3) consecutive weeks, the twelve (12) week period set out in the foregoing paragraph will recommence when the employee is again transferred to the work where the job rate is lower.
a) Employees shall be given the opportunity to sign their Form 300 whenever that . Form 300 is issued or changed.
49
APPENDIX "B"
WAGES
B-8 Temporary Transfer. When an employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job (s)he shall receive the higher rate provided however, that such higher rate shall not be used as part of the job rate referred to in SactLcns B-5, B-6 and B«7 of this Appendix. The employee's regular job rate (Form300) shall apply immediately such temporary assignment ceases.
Form 301 shall indicate a temporary transfer and a copy of same shall be given to the Department Steward. The Form 301 shall indicate whether the temporary assignment is of a continuous nature, and if so it will be effective until the supervisor advises the employee that the temporary assignment ceases, or as a result of a successful posting under Article 12, or the absent employee returns to work.
B-9 If an employee at his/her own request is transferred permanently from work where the job rate is higher, the lower rate shall prevail immediately upon transfer.
B-10 Where an employee is transferred to work where the job rate is lower as a direct result of the introduction of new equipment or where an employee remains on a job reduced in value following a technological change, his/her rate shall not be reduced for a period of three (3) years, including lay-off, provided the employee accepts all opportunities for transfer to work where the job rate is higher. In the application of rates or adjustment cf grades such an employee will not be paid a rate greater than the rate paid at time of transfer except for reasons of a general wage increase after date of transfer.
At the expiry of the three (3) year period set out above, the amount of rate reduction shall be limited to two (2) grades. At twelve (12) month intervals thereafter, further reductions of a maximum of two (2) grades shall take place until the lower rate prevails.
50
APPENDIX "C"
SCHEDULE "C" SHIFT SCHEDULES
At the commencement of each year, but in any event no later than January 15 th, the Company will provide the Union with copies of all current Schedules "C". Further, any Schedule "C" revised as provided under Article 6 Section 2, will also be provided to the Union.
51
APPENDIX "D"	v/ [
SEVERANCE PAY	>jAv
D-1 If the Company deans it necessary to close the plant or a substantial portion of the plant resulting in the permanent termination of service of employees therein, * or where an employee is eligible under Article 25, notice at least equal to, but not in addition to, that provided in Article 11, Section 4 hereof with minimum notice of one (1) month, shall be given to employees then on the payroll. The guaranteed payment as set out in Article 8 hereof shall apply during the period of such notice. A list of employees affected by the closure will be given to the Union concurrent vriih the issuance of notice.
D-2 Such employees whose service is permanently terminated because of such closure shall receive severance pay in accordance with the table set out in this Appendix D, but no such payment will be made to:
a)	except as provided under Article 25, an employe with less than one (1) year's seniority;
b)	an employee granted retirement on pension;
c)	an employee discharged for cause within the period of notice;
d)	an employee who applies for a vacancy in another plant of the Catpany and is hired by that plant;
e)	an employee who has been cn lay-off under Article 11 Section 4 for a period of thirty (30) calendar days tr mote prior to the date of notification of closure.
D-3 Severance pay shall not apply:
a)	where close down results from Queen's enemies, insurrection, government action,
atomic fallout, Acts of God or any other cause beyond the Company's control; or
b) where close down follows, or is caused through any strike, walkout, stoppage, slowing down or other cessation of work,
D-4 When an employee receives severance pay, all his/her rights and privileges including seniority cease excepting his/her option rights under the Pension and Life Insurance Plan and the Sickness and Accident Plan in respect to termination of service.
52
D-5 The scale of severance pay shall be as follows:
Amount
Years of Completed Seniority at Closing Date
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
$480
480
680
880
1,080
1,280
1.480 1,680 1,880 2,080 2,420
2.760 3,100 3,440 3,780
4.120 4,460 4,800
5.140
5.480 5,890 6,300 6,710
7.120 7,530 7,940 8,350
8.760 9,170 9,580 10,025 10,470 10,915 11,360 11,805
12,250
12,695
13.140 13,585 14,030
Employees whose combined age and years of service, as set out above, total sixty-five (65) will be entitled to a supplement of two thousand & six hundred (2,600)dollars plus an additional one hundred & fifty (150) dollars for each year the combined total exceeds sixty-five (65).
53
"E"
12 HOUR SHIFT AGREEMENT FOR POWER ENGINEERS
The parties agree that during the life of this Collective Agreement, a "Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule" Will be implemented which will provide that Powerhouse Engineers work an average of forty (40) hours per week over a five (5) week period (i.e. two hundred (200) hours over a five (5) week period). The provision cf two hundred (200) hours over a five (5) week period is subject to change, by the Company, in order to provide appropriate shift coverage in the Powerhouse.
The implementation of the "Twelve (12) Hair Shift Schedule" vaH affect the Collective Agreement as follows:	y
1)	The thirty-seven (37) hour pay guarantee shall reduce to the actual hours scheduled where those scheduled hours total less than thirty-seven (37) hours in a specific week.
2)	The seventy (70) scheduled days of employment referred to in Article 10 Section 1 shall be equal to seventy (70) scheduled shifts regardless of the lengths of the shifts which meet the criteria set forth in Article 10 Section 1.
3)	Vacation pay shall be paid on the basis of a regular eight (8) hour day.
4)	Funeral pay shall be paid on the basis of a regular eight (8) hour shift for each day of leave granted.
5)	Mdkafl. aid shall be paid cn the basis of a regular eight (8) hour shift in that the maximum payment that will be paid under, the Article 17, Section 7 will be eight (8) hours including the payment for hours worked, unless the hours worked are greater than eight (8) hours, then payment will be made for those hours worked.
6)	Shift premium shall not be paid for the hours worked between 7:00 a. m. and 4:00 p.m., regardless of the start time of the shift, but will be paid for each hour waked between 4:00 p.m. and 7:00 am.
7)	Overtime shall be paid at one and one-half (HA) times the employee's regular rate only if an employee has worked in excess of twelve (12) hours when a twelve (12) hour shift is scheduled, and
a)	a meal shall be provided as per Article 7 Section 5,
b)	Article 7 Section 3 will govern the payment of the double time rate and the application of the second meal, however, where the contract reads 13, 17 shall be substituted in the twelve (12) hour shift situation.
54
APPENDIX "E"
12 HOUR SHIFT AGREEMENT FQR PQWgR ENGINEERS
8)	The meal and rest periods shall remain as they are for an eight (8) hour shift, that is, one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch break and two fifteen (15) minute, Company paid, rest periods which may be taken at a tune suitable to the Engineer given that qpaatdcral requirements do not necessitate that (s)he attend to his/her job.
9)	Paid holidays will be paid on the basis of an eight (8) hour shift so that;
a)	holiday pay for a twelve (12) hour shift waked will equal eight (8) hours pay at regular rates, plus,
b)	twiae the hourly rate for each hour worked on the calendar holiday, is paid
Note - an Individual Holiday is a paid holiday,
10)	The general principle underlying the implementation of a twelve (12) hour drift schedule is that the Company wH not incur any additional costs in wages, premiums, replacement coverage or the like, and that in each situation where a dispute arises over the interpretation cf this Appendix E, it will be decided on the basis of this principle. Thus, the dispute will be settled on the basis of the cost calculated for an eight (8) hour shift schedule applied to the twelve (12) hour shift scheduled.
55
APPENDIX "F"
F-l Departments
List of plant departments for information only The Company will provide the Union with a list of departments and will advise the Union, in writing, when and if any changes are to be made on such list. The first list shall be as follows:
1.	Kill (which includes offal and stockyard)
2.	Pork Cutting / Pork Packing (which includes counter-ready pock)
3.	S,P, Cellars (which includes smokehouse)
4.	Sausage Kitchen
5.	Wiener Room
6.	Central Packaging
7.	Shipping / Loading (which includes Freezers)
8.	Maintenance
9.	Powerhouse
10.	Sanitation
11.	By-products
12.	Beef Coolers (which includes Beef Boning)
13.	Miscellaneous (which includes Laundry, Receiving).
56
APPENDIX "G"
SCHEDULE OF dRAOFS COVERING PLANT OPERATION
BEEF DRESSING
1	Driving
7 Knocking
5	Shackling 12 Sticking
2	Catch blood
4	Cut off head ■ Loosen Tongue
3	Cut off front feet
20 Skin hind leg, skin flank, rim over 17 Drop bung, skin tail, mark aitch 23 Siding (Power Knife)
20 Clear around forequarters 15	Tend hide puller
6	Saw breast bone 6 Gullet raising
4	Caul fat saving
12	Remove viscera
13	Sawing down (complete electric)
5	Scribbing
6	Trim neck, remove glands
5	Defatting
4	Ttim beef
1	Washing
7	Shrouding
5	Scaling
2	Clean and hang rollers
REF.T CO --------
S Scalers (Carlots)
2	Sack, wrap, stencil, stamp, brand 2 Carcass to coolers
1	Remove shrouds
5	Transfer beef using beef shifter
S Ribbing beef
2	lifting beef
1	Push carcass in cooler 0 All other operations
FF.F.F CUTTING
11 Beef Cutters (commercial cuts, also cutting for plant market)	/
15 Beef boners (Boning whole or cut up cos,, quarters, chucks loins and steak pieces for cuts for sale or for manufacturing)
2	Beef packers
8	Operate bandsaw (make cuts)
0	All other operations
BLOCK READY BEEF
11 Remove tip and prepare for breakup
11	Operate bandsaw, break primal cuts
9	Trim primal cuts (bandsaw)
12	Trim primal cuts and somi-bone
3	Bag primal cuts
3	Vacuumize primal cuts
4	Pack, Scale and record
HOG DRESSING
1	Driving
5	Immobilizing
5	Hancpng Immobilized hogs
15	Stickers '
3	Scalier
6	Open up gam cords
3	Hanging off
2	Singeing (tunnel)
7	Shaving hams
6 Shaving shoulders, backs bellies 6	Open breast bones
4	Open aitch bones
11	Open bellies
2	Cutting out pizzle
12	Drop bungs
12	Remove viscera
11	Drop tongues
9	Hog header
2	Heading (helpers)
4	Print-o-ma(io scaler
4	Inspector's helper
6	Pull leaf lard
3	Taking out kidneys
2	Scraping leaf lard
2	Taking out head glands
11	Saw backbone
3	Cutting off heads
2	Remove hog skirts (hot)
2	Government stamp hogs
2 Clean and hang rollers 9	Clean held hogs .
1	Place hogs in cooler
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
57
APPENDIX "G"
SCQEnTTLF OF GRAPES-COVERIN G-PL A NT OPERATION
HOG CUTTING
1	Pushing Hogs
5 Feed circular knife 9	Bandsaw, make	cuts
8	Lift neekbones
9	Pull buns and shoulders
9	Trim butts
9	Trim picnics
9	Trim shoulders
9	Trim hams
4	Split middles
9	Saw backbones	(power)
4	Remove buttons
7	Remove tailbones
2	Remove tenders
3	Trim tenders
11	Rib bellies
11	Trim bellies
. 4	Feed belly roller
11	Rib backs
11	Bone backs
11 Fat and trim backs and loins
2	Trim jowls
8	Mechanical back and loin pullers
3	Porking trimming fern pork cuts
5	Whizzard knife	operator
0	Tanking
7	Bone carcasses	or	cuts
7 Bone picnics, shoulders, butts
4	Clerk
3 Skinning machine operator
2	Wrap cuts
3	Pack and scale
S.P.	CURING
5	Pumpers (incl.	artery)
7	Pickle makers
3	Pickle makers (asst.)
S.P. CONVERTING
5 Defat hams ■ external defatting 5 Whizzard knife operator
11 Han boner - remove bones from ham
5	Defat hams - Internal defatting
6	Grind and tumble cure 3 Stuffing
1	Stockinetter
7	Scaler and cellar books
3	Bet or fully skin hams
7 Bone picnics
11 Smokehouse operator 3 Skinning machine operator
2	Caging
1	Hanger
2	Comber '
1	Clean trees, trolleys and combs
S.P. COOKED HAM MFG
2	Ham presser
7	Ham cook tank operator
3	Pack hams to	moulds
2	Stuff Mepaco	hams
FREEZER
6 Bookkeeping and scaling
S	Freeze rm an
BY-PRODUCTS - TANKHOUSE
12 Rendering cooker operator 3 Loading tank cars 6 Bookkeeper
3	, Load cooker
4	Save foetal bovine blood
11 Operate sharpies equipment
BY-PRODUCTS LAM)
11	Votator operator	¥
11	Refinery operator	
3	Filling lard containers	
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
58
APPENDIX "G"
SCHEdttt f of grades covering plant operation
KYAPROMTCTS - HIDES
0 Put down or take up hides
CASINGS -m®
5 Trim paunches 5 Remove bung and ruffle fat 2 Open and wash tripe 7 Trim bung6 5 Finishing tripe (edible)
7 Work up beef heads 5	Trim PIux
4	Trim Tongues
2	Pack fancy meats
3	Trim glands, cheek meat, etc. 0 Tanking, trucking, weeping 0 General labour
CASING-HOGS
4	Grading Bungs
6	Work up hog heads
5	All trimming of offals 2 Save pancreas gland
SHIPPING
7	Deskman 4 Runner
2 Stocker
LOADING
7 Checking on loading dock
11	Receiver
5 Sort and load mixed merchandise (including beef)
TRUCK DRIVING	,
12	Driver deliveries
JANITORS. LAUNDRY. ETC
0	Janitors
4	Cleanup
5	Laundry (bead)
2 Seamstress (2nd class)
2 Laundry (sort, fold, press)
1	Cleanup in ehem, lab 0 General labour
SAUSAGE
4	Mechanical deboner
2	Chp frozen blocks 11 Sausage maker
8	Cooker and jellied meats formulator
5	Grinding,'
3	Stuffing
5 Test clerk 11	Smokehouse operator
2	Smokehouse helper
2 linking and hanging
2	Weigh Spices
3	Frank-o-matic attendant 7 Pre-blend operator
PACKAGING
4	Operate flex vac 2 Wfcsp and pack
2 Vacuumiziog product
2	Machine operator and scaler
3	Operate Cashin Shadow Graph Scale 3 Press bacon
LARD
0 General Labour
STOCKYARDS
5 Sort and weigh
59
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
APPENDIX "G"
SCHEDULE OF GRAPES COVERING PLANT OPERATION
MECHANICAL
Hsods
44 Special Machinist 44 Electrician
Qte
34 Journeymen 24 Improvers
9 Greaser & Oiler 0 Labourer
To obtain the journeyman rate an employee must possess a Journeyman Ticket in the respective trade.
POWERHOUSE
43 Shift Eng. where 2nd class papers required 34 Shift Eng, where 3rd class papers required 14 Shift Eng, where 4th class papers required 14 Boiler fireman (with papers)
10	Boilerman (no papers)
0	Power house labour
9	Temperature man
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
EXHIBIT 1
Employee's Name
Address_________
City,____________________________________________________________
Phone________________Date of Hire______________________Birthdate
Social Insurance Number
Employer____________________________________Job Classification
Full-time______	Part-time____	, casual—
Dues and Initiation Authorization
I, hereby, request and authorize the Employer to deduct from my wages, and pay to the Union, such Union dues and/or initiation fee requested by the United Food and Ccnrnercial Workers Union, Local No. 832.
Date_____________________________Signature___________________________________________
(To be mailed to the Union office within 10 calendar days ffan date of hire or rehire.)
TO THE EMPLOYEE:
1.	You are hereby informed that Union Membership is a condition of employment.
2.	The lirioi will be notified that you have received this statement and may approach you to make an application for membership with the full-time Union Representative, Shop Steward, or the Union office.
Union office	,
1412 Portage Avenue, Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3G 0V5, Phone 786-5055
