Collective Agreement Between
P & H foods
and
United foods & commercial workers Canada
Local 175
Begins:
02/Jun/2010
Terminates:
01/Jun/2012
00280 (13)
Source: Company Employees:
Received by: PG Date: 30/11/2015
Name.
Address.........sF.^c?..
Phone AHA.
United Food & Commercial Workers Locals 175 & 633
2200Argentia Road Mississauga, ON L5N 2K7
Phone: 905-821-8329 Toll Free: 1-800-565-8329 Fax: 905-821-7144
www.ufcwl75.com
UPDATED FEBRUARY2Q1 i \
00550 0 )
Letter from the President Local 175 UFCW Canada
Sisters and Brothers:
I wish to welcome new membersto Locals 175 & 633 of the United Food& Commercial Workers Union, and to thank long-standing members for their continued support and assistance over the years.
I hope you read this contract and become aware of your rights and privileges as union members. It is an important document. It identifies and guarantees your income, benefits and job security while you work for your current employer. Like an insurance policy, a warranty for a new car, or the deed to your home, if you are not aware of the agreement you entered into, you may not benefit from it.
As a union member with a contract, you have the freedom to plan for the future. You will know what your income will be in advance. Your rights and benefits are written down and cannot be revoked, and your job security is a primary element. Non-union workers do not have this protection. Their wages and benefits may be cut at any time, as may their jobs.
Become familiar with your contract. If unsure about an item or if you think your concern is not covered,
speak to your Union Steward. He or she is a co-worker trained by the Union to help you with concerns and grievances in the workplace. If the problem cannot be settled by the Steward, a full-time Union Representative can be contacted to assist you.
In addition to the Stewards in the workplace and the Union Representatives who support them, we also have a team of professionals who provide support. We should all be proud of our Union's achievements. We have proven many times that an employer can treat workers fairly and still run its business efficiently.
In the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, we are committed to job security in an ever changing social environment. Only your Union can be relied upon to protect your rights.
Your Union offers you representation before the Workplace Safety & Insurance Board (WSIB). If you are injured on the job, our trained staff will support you and help you in any way they can.
Non-unionworkers are at the mercy of their employer. This is one reason our Local Union continues to grow.
Our organizing team works around the clock to help bring other workers into our union. If you know someone who works in a non-union environment, do them a favour and give our organizers a call.
We also believe in the education of our members and their children. Lack of economic resources should not be a hindrance to further education. In this regard, the UFCW offers a number of scholarships at the local,
national and international level. They are for your benefit as Local 175 or 633 members.
In addition, your Union works to keep you up-to-date about legislation concerning your working rights.
Your Local Union represents some 50,000 members across Ontario. As we continue to grow, we have advanced to keep up with the growth in areas of servicing and all-round members' support. Included in this booklet is a list of Union Representatives and other staff who are here to support you, the member.
Only by all of us working together can we keep what we have gained over years of hard negotiations and obtain what is rightfully ours in the future. Our labour may be the only commodity we have to sell. Let us not sell it cheaply.
Please feel free to contact me at any time with questions or concerns about the Union. You put the 'U' in your Union.
In Solidarity,
Shawn Haggerty President
Local 175 UFCW Canada
OFFICERS
Shawn Haggerty Teresa Magee Betty Pardy
President Secretary-Treasurer Recorder
Ray Bromley	Harry Sutton
Executive Assistant	Executive Assistant
As the elected officers of Local 175, it is our job to ensure the smooth running and day-to-day operations of your Local Union. We represent more than 50,000 members across Ontario, of whom approximately 25,000 are retail workers. Others work in a wide variety of units, including nursing homes, funeral homes, hotels, processing plants and manufacturing plants. This requires versatility, knowledge and tireless effort. To accomplish this job, we are supported by your Union Stewards, Union Representatives, Benefits Representatives, Staff Lawyers and Communications Representatives. If we are not available or cannot answer a given question, we have the resources to find out. Remember, we are here to serve you.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
You are one of more than 240,000 members in Canada and 14-million members in NorthAmerica.
The UFCW is the result of a merger between two of the oldest and most respected unions in North America; the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of NorthAmerica and the Retail Clerks International Union. This mergertook place on June 6, 1979. The UFCW represents workers in nearly all aspects of Canadian life, which is mirrored in the makeup of Locals 175 & 633.
LOCALS 175 a 633 UFCW CANADA
Your local union, with more than 50,000 members, is the largest UFCW local union, and the largest local union of any union in Canada.
This Local has the expertise, financial stability and resources to provide you, the member, with the best negotiating team, the best legal assistance, and the best all-round service of any union in the country.
LOCALS 175 & 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD LOCAL 175 EXECUTIVE BOARD:
President
Shawn Haggerty, Hamilton Secretary-Treasurer Teresa Magee, Vaughan
Recorder
Betty Pardy, London
Vice-presidents
RickAlagierski, Mississauga Bryan Braithwaite, Chatham Barbara Carr, Thunder Bay Colleen Cox, Whitby Bruce Dosman, Hanover Virginia Haggith, Oakland Cheryl Henry, Thunder Bay Jim Hough, Burlington Lynn Jillings, Cobourg Lee Johnson-Koehn, Hamilton E m Kelly, Stratford Carolyn Levesque, Windsor Lionel MacEachern, Hamilton Frank Menezes, Brampton Scott Molnar, Nepean James Montgomery, Welland
Tony Morello, Angus Brian Ogilvie, St. Catharines Jean Patenaude, Cornwall Joe Pereira, Orangeville Toni Pettitt, Hawkestone MarcPraill, Harrow Sandra Proulx, Gloucester Fitzroy Reid, Toronto Don Schmidt, Walkerton Dale Simon, Thunder Bay Louise Summers, Cornwall Harry Sutton, Burlington Karen Vaughan, Picton Chris Watson, Arthur Kimberley White, Thunder Bay
LOCAL633 EXECUTIVE BOARD:
President
Dan Bondy, Amherstburg
Secretary-Treasurer
Marylou Mallett, Arthur
Recorder
Neil Hotchkiss, Amherstburg
Vice-Presidents
Brian Kozlowski, Thunder Bay Tony Nigro, Brampton Brad Wigle, Tecumseth
What You Get For Your Union Dues
•	Higher than average wages and benefits. According to government statistics, unionized workers make, on average, 38% more in wages and benefits than non-union workers in the same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding investment in your future.
•	Job Security. Your Union will not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause, and it is up to management to prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens of thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitrationexpenses just to protect your rights. If you are unjustly discharged, your Union will spare no expense in getting you back to work. Does a non-unionworker have that kind of security? Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights
•	are vitally important to your Union. Did you deserve a promotion and not get it? Are non-bargaining unit people doing your work? Wfere your bumping rights ignored? Is your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairlydisciplined for a very minor mistake?The Grievance Procedure allows the Union to fight for your rights. In a non-unionworkplace you have no rights except what management chooses to allow you.
Problems with the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act
•	or Employment lnsurance?The Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representingyou to government agencies. These services are free to you, should you ever need them. Non-unionworkers are usually "in the dark" and "out in the cold" in these matters. They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help.
Pensions, Dental Insurance, Sick Pay, Disability Insur-
•	ance, etc. Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family. Should they be unable to work because of sickness or accident, would they trade their insurance protection for yours? You bet they would!
Add up what you paid in Union Dues last year (don't forget that they are tax-deductible). Compare that amount with
what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes, beer,
movies, cable television or "impulse" gifts.
WHAT IS A UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected front-line representative of the United Food and Commercial Workers. It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rights and to represent you to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure. Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Union Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility. Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Steward to look into a violation of your contract rights unless you are willing to file a grievance if necessary. Their time is as important as yours. Your Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement, but only if you are willing to see it through. Despite the trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you're not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Union Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
UNION SCHOLARSHIPS, TRAINING AND EDUCATION
Locals 175 & 633 are advocates cf lifelong learning. We understand the need for training and education in the workplace resulting from technological change, corporate restructuring and the abandonment by governments of the training and education of the workforce.
To address that need Locals 175 & 633 offer the most ad-
vanced and accessible Membership Training & Education program in Canada. Members can choose from a variety of free educational opportunities including: an extensive list of online programs with over 100 courses accessible 24 hours a day, seven days week: computer training in-class or online; English as a second language (ESL); skills upgrading or Ontario Secondary School Diploma credits delivered in conjunction with local school boards: and courses such as CPR, First Aid and Women's Self-Defence. Call the Training Centre or visit our Web site for current offerings.
We are committed to ensuring our stewards are equipped with the knowledge and tools they need to face their employers and offer an extensive list of courses, from introductory to advanced, including stewardship, collective bargaining, union organizing and health & safety.
We were the first Union in Canada to use Mobile Computer Training Labs to bring computer courses to our members in their own local communities. These labs complement our Training & Education Centres in Mississauga and Hamilton.
In addition, every year the Locals offer paid training for stewards and members conducted at the Locals' Training & Education Centre in Mississauga. Scholarships are awarded twice annually to stewards province-wide to attend these week-long, in-depth training and education seminars. The training offered changes when needed to ensure that stewards receive relevant practical skills so they can be well-informed educated representatives of the Union in their workplaces.
Each year, the Local Union also offers 56 scholarships, valued at $1,000 each, to Locals 175 & 633 UFCW Canada members and their children, who are pursuing a post-secondary education. For more information please contact the Locals 175 & 633 Training Centre at 905-821-8329 or 1-800565-8329, or visit www.ufcw175.com.
We are a Union that is highly committed to making education and advancement a reality for our members.
WORKPLACE SAFETY AND INSURANCE ACT (WSIA)
Formerly WORKERS COMPENSATION ACT
The Workplace Safety and InsuranceAct (WSIA), formerly Workers Compensation Act, is an insurance program to protect workers from health-care costs and loss of income due to job-related disabilities. Here are answers to some commonly asked questions:
1.	HOW DOES THE WORKER REPORT AN ACCIDENT? If an accident occurs at work, section 22 (1) of The Act requires a worker to file a claim as soon as possible after the accident that gives rise to the claim, but in no case shall he or she file a claim more than six months after the accident or, in the case of an occupational disease, after the worker learns that he or she suffers from the disease.
2.	IS THEREAN EXTENSION OF TIME?
The Board may permit a claim to be filed after the six month period expires if, in the opinion of the Board it is just to do so.
3.	WHAT FORMS MUST BE COMPLETED TO RECEIVE BENEFITS?
Section22 (4).., Aclaim must be on a form approved by the Board and must be accompanied by such information and documents as the Board may require. Use Form 6 - Employee's Report of Injury.
4.	WHA T CONSENT OF DISCLOSURE IS REQUIRED? Section 22 (5).. When filing a claim, a worker must consent to the disclosure to his or her employerof information provided by a health professional under subsection 37(e) concerning the worker's functional abilities. The disclosure is for the sole purpose of facilitating the worker's return to work.
5.	FAILURE TO FILE?
Section22 (6).. If the claimant does not file the claim with the Board in accordance with this section or does not give the consent required by subsection (5) no benefits shall be
provided under the insurance plan unless the Board, in its opinion, decides that it is just to do so.
6.	NOTICE TO EMPLOYER?
Section22 (7).. The claimantshall give a copy of his or her claim to the worker's employer at the time the claim is given to the board. The employer must supply a copy of the Form
7,	along with any and all amendments, to the employee.
7.	NOTICE OF MATERIAL CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES? Section 23 (3)... A person receiving benefits under the insurance plan or who may be entitled to do so shall notify the Board of a material change in circumstancesin connection with the entitlement within 10 days after the material change occurs.
8.	WAGES FOR DAY OFACCIDENT?
Section 24 (l.)The employer shall pay a worker who is entitled to benefits under the insurance plan his or her wages and employment benefits for the day of the injury as if the accident had not occurred.
9.	EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS?
Section25 (l.j)Throughoutthe first year after a worker is injured, the employer shall make contributions for employment benefits in respect to the worker when the worker is absent from work because of the injury. However, the contributions are required only if:
(a)	the employer was making contributionsfor employment benefits in respect to the worker when the injury occurred; and
(b)	the worker continues to pay his or her contributions if any, for the employment benefits while the worker is absent from work.
10.	DUTY TO CO-OPERATE IN RETURN TO WORK? Section40 (l.)The employerof an injured worker shall cooperate in the early and safe return to work of the worker by:
(a)	contacting the worker as soon as possible after the in-
jury occurs and maintaining communication throughout the period of the worker's recovery and impairment;
(b)	attemptingto provide suitable employment that is available and consistent with the worker's functional abilities and that, when possible, restoresthe worker's pre-injury earnings:
(c)	giving the Board such information as the Board may request concerningthe worker's return to work; and
(d)	doing such otherthings as may be prescribed.
WORKER'S DUTY?
Section 40 (2)... The worker shall co-operate in his or her early and safe return to work by:
(a)	contacting his or her employer as soon as possible after the injuryoccursand maintainingcommunication throughout the period of the worker's recovery and impairment;
(b)	assisting the employer, as may be required or requested, to identify suitable employment that is available and consistent with the worker's functional abilities and that, when possible, restores his or her pre-injury earnings;
(c)	giving the Board such informationas the Board may request concerningthe worker's return to work; and
(d)	doing such otherthings as may be prescribed.
11.	NOTICE OF DISPUTE?
Section 40 (6).. The employer or the worker shall notify the Board of any difficulty or dispute concerning their cooperation with each other in the worker's early and safe return to work. A Board mediator may be assigned to mediate the dispute.
12.	OBLIGATION TO RE-EMPLOY?
Section 41 (I).. The employer of a worker who has been unable to work as a result of an injury and who, on the date of the injury, had been employed continuously for at least one year by the employer shall offer to re-employ the worker in accordance with this section.
Section41 (4)When the worker is medicallyableto perform the essential duties of his or her pre-injury employment, the
employer shall:
(a)	offer to re-employ the worker in the position that the worker held on the date of injury, or
(b)	offer to provide the worker with alternative employment of a nature and at earnings comparable to the worker's employment on the date of injury.
TIME LIMITS
1	A 30-day time limit on appealing a Board decision about return to work or a labour market re-entry plan made on or after January 1, 1998.
2	A six-month time limiton appealingany other Board decision made on or after January 1, 1998.
3	A six-month time limiton filing a claim.
The changes to the new act are significant and have reduced or limited entitlement for injured workers. However, you should never let management talk you out of filing a claim, it is your right. In fact, it is a violation for an employer to refuse to submit a claim.
Your local union has a benefits department that will answer any questions you may have in regard to filing or appealing a WSIB claim. Contact your union office.
EMPLOYMENTINSURANCE (formerly UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE)
On June 30, 1996, the Employment Insurance Act came into effect. Additional changes became effective January 1, 1997 and December 31 St, 2000. The new system reflects a fundamental restructuring of the old Unemployment Insurance system.
‘Where to Apply?”
Apply at the local Human Resource Centre of Canada. Check the telephone directory under Human Resources Development Canada or Canada Employment Centre for the office nearestyou.
Regular Benefits:
You can receive regular benefits if you lost your job and you can't find work, provided that you meet these requirements:
•	you have been without work and without pay for at least seven consecutive days;
•	you have paid into the El account;
•	you have worked the required minimum number cf hours in the last 52 weeks: the numberof hours of work needed, may range from 420-700 hours depending on the unemployment rate in your region.
•	there are two exceptions: if this is your first job ever, or your first job after coming back into the workforce after an absence of two years or more, you will need a minimum of 910 hours of work to qualify regardless of the local unemployment rate.
In most cases you will receive 55% of your insured earnings to a maximum of $413 per week. Claimants who are in a low income family (an income of less than $25,921) with children and receive the Child Tax Benefit will receive a FamilySupplementbasedonyourChildTax Benefit.Your benefit rate can be increased to a maximum of 65% but not greater than the maximum benefit rate of $413 (2001). Claimants can collect benefits between 14 and 45 weeks depending on the unemployment rate in their region, and the numbercf hoursthey have worked inthe last 52 weeks.
Howto Calculate the Benefit Amount?
The benefit rate is based on your average insured earnings inthe Iast26 weeks of work. Your insured earnings will be averaged over a number of weeks known as a divisor, which is based on the unemployment rate in your region. The divisor is the greater of:
(a)	the number of weeks of insured earnings in the last 26 week period; or
(b)	the number of weeks specified in the divisor table.
If you worked for only the minimum number of weeks required to qualify, or for one week longer than that, then the minimum divisor applies to you.
Intensity Rule:
Any week of regular benefits collected after June 30, 1996, could affect your benefit rate on future claims. Weeks of benefits claimed will stay on your claim history for five (5) years. Working while on a claim can help you to reduce the number of weeks on your claim history. Your claim history is maintainedfor five years.
Work Credits:
Claimants who work while they receive regular benefits and earn enough to reduce their El cheques will be able to earn credits to be applied against the intensity rule. The total amount they save the El system by working while on a claim will be converted into weeks of unpaid benefits. Those weeks will then be credited against the application of the intensity rule for the next claim in the next five years.
Sick Benefits:
Sick benefits are paid for up to 15 weeks, if you have 600 hours of insurable employment in the last 52 weeks or since the start of your last claim. If you get sick after your employment was interrupted for another reason, such as temporary layoff, you may be eligible with less than 600 hours. Medical reports are necessary.
MaternitySenefffs:
If your child is born or adopted after December31st, 2001: You must have worked and paid El premiums for at least 600 hours in the last 52 weeks, or since the beginning of your last El claim. You can start collecting maternity benefits up to 8 weeks before you are scheduled to give birth. However, benefits cannot be received later than 17 weeks after the baby is due or born, unless the infant is confined to a hospital.
Parental Benefits:
Parental benefits can be collected for up to 35 weeks by natural and adoptive parents while they are caring for a newborn or adopted child. Under the new rules a combination of maternity (biological mothers only), parental and sickness benefits can be received up to a combined maximum of 50 weeks in a 52 week period.
Benefits are paid at 55% of your average insured earnings upto a maximumof $413 per week. EmploymentInsurance Compassionate Leave:
As of January 4, 2004, compassionate care benefits may be paid upto a maximumof 6 weeks to a personwho hasto be absent from work to provide care or support to a gravely ill family member who is at risk of dying within 26 weeks. Unemployed persons on El can also ask for this type of benefit.
To be eligible for compassionate care benefits you must apply and show that:
•	your regular weekly earnings from work have decreased by more than 40%; and
•	you have accumulated 600 insured hours in the last 52 weeks or since the start of your last claim. This period is called the qualifying period.
You can receive compassionate care benefits to care for one of the following family members:
•	your child or the child of your spouse or common-law partner;
•	your wife/husband or common-law partner;
•	your fatherhother;
•	your father's wife/mother’s husband;
•	the common-law partner of your fatherhother. Common-law partner means a person who has been living in a conjugal relationshipwith that personfor at least a year.
When requesting compassionate care benefits you must provide a medical certificate as proof that the ill family member needs care or support and is at risk of dying within 26 weeks.
Discharge or Quit:
No regular benefits are paid to those workers who quit a job without just cause or who are fired for misconduct. You may appeal a disqualification. Contact your Union if you need assistancewith your appeal.
For more information contact
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT CANADA or
CANADA EMPLOYMENT CENTRE
Should you have a problem, contact your Union Representative for help!
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETYACT
Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management & workers live up to their responsibilities under Ontario’s Occupational Healths Safety Act. Here is a quick guide to the Act. For details, refer to the Act itself, which is found in the small green book, which must be posted in every workplace.
Employer’sDuf/'es: Among otherthings, the employer must:
•	Provide information, instructionand training to a worker to protectthe healths safety of the worker.
•	Acquaint the worker with any workplace hazard.
•	Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
•	Co-operate with and assist the health S safety committee and representative.
•	Take every precautionreasonablefor the protectionof the worker.
Supervisor's Duties: In stores, the Supervisor is normally
the Store Manager. He/she must:
•	Ensure that the worker works in a safe manner and uses all the equipment, protective devices or clothing that is required.
•	Advise a worker of any potentialor actual dangerto health & safety.
•	Providewritten safety instructions,where required.
•	Be familiar with the Act and regulations.
Worker's Obligations
•	Use all safety equipment and wear all protective clothing required by the employer.
•	Report any potentially unsafe condition or defect in safety equipment to your Supervisor.
•	Obey the Health and Safety law and all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulations to your Supervisor.
Workers may not
•	Remove or turn off any safety device.
•	Use any equipment or work in a manner which may endanger yourself or another worker.
•	Engage in horseplayof any kind.
The Right to Refuse Unsafe Work
If you encounter an unsafe condition at work, your first obligation is to report it to your Supervisor. Once you have done that, you may refuse to work at a job or task where you have reason to believe that:
•	Any machine or equipment you are supposed to use is likely to endanger yourself or another worker, or
•	The condition of the workplace itself is hazardous.
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal, who must then investigate the matter in your presence and that of a health and safety representative of the workers (normallythe Steward or a member of the Health & Safety Committee). If the Supervisor orders you back to work and you are still not satisfied that the job is safe, you may con-
tinue to refuse to work, provided you believe the condition still constitutes a hazard.
At this point, the Inspectorfrom the Ministry of Labour must be called in. While you are waiting for the Inspector, the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he or she is informed in the presence of the Health & Safety Committee member, that the job was refused and the reasons for the refusal. This second worker also has the same right to refuse. The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable alternative work, subject to the CollectiveAgreement.
The decision of the Inspector is final. Although this order may be appealed, you must return to the job if the Inspector so orders, pending the outcome of such appeal.
Certified Member
Section48(1) statesthat a certified member who receives a complaint that dangerous circumstancesexist is entitled to investigatethe complaint.
If in Doubt
If in doubt about the Right to Refuse, members should consult their Certified Worker Member, Health & Safety Committee Member, Union Steward or Local 175 Union Representative or call the Ministry of Labour.
The Entitlementfo be Paid
Section43(13) requires the employer to pay Health& Safety Committeemembers at "regular or premium rate, as may be proper."
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3 ARTICLE 4
ARTICLE 5
ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7
ARTICLE 8
ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10
ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22
PURPOSE........
RECOGNITION....
MANAGEMENT.....
UNION SECURITY & UNION STEWARDS
1
1
2
3
SLOWDOWNS AND INTERRUPTION
OF PRODUCTION...........
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE .... HOURS OF WORK. OVERTIME
AND HOLIDAY PAY.........
PAY FOR HOLIDAYS
NOT WORKED..............
VACATIONS...............
SENIORITY...............
8
9
14
20
24
30
10.09	-JOB POSTING..... 44
HEALTH AND SAFETY...... 49
GENERAL ............... 51
SEPARATION ALLOWANCES . . 57
WAGES ................. 60
LEAVE OF ABSENCE ...... 62
CREDITED SERVICE....... 63
BEREAVEMENT............ 66
BENEFITS............... 68
SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT ... 79 DISCIPLINARYWARNINGS ... 84 EDUCATIONS TRAINING FUND 84 DURATION OF AGREEMENT . .
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
SCHEDULE “A" ............
SCHEDULE “B” ............
SCHEDULE "C” ............
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#! . LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#2 . LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#3 . LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#4 . LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#5 . LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#6 . LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#? . LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#8 . LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#9 . LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#^
EXHIBIT “A
86
88
89
92
94
97
98
99
100
102
104
106
107
109
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
1
BETWEEN: P&H FOODS
478 Fourteenth Street Hanover, Ontario (Hereinafter called the "Company")
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
(Hereinafter called the "Union")
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	It is the intent of this Agreement to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees and to provide an amicable method of settling grievances which may possibly arise, as well as to set forth conditions of employment, rates of pay, and hours of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees of its poultry processing plant, 478 Fourteenth Street, Hanover, Ontario, save and except
2
foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, office staff, sales staff, fieldmen, and hatchery staff.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT
3.01	The Management of the Plant and the direction of the working force, including the right to hire, promoteand demote employees, to discipline, to suspend or discharge for just cause, to assign and reassign employees to jobs, to transfer employees within the Plant, to increase and decrease the working force, to determine product to be handled, produced or manufactured, the schedules of production and the methods, processes, and means of production or handling are vested exclusively in the Company, provided this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against any employees or the Union or for the purpose of avoiding the effects of the other provisions of this Agreement.
3.02	The Company agrees that these rightswill not be exercised in a manner inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
3.03	No Discrimination: The Company agrees that there shall be no discrimination, interference, restriction or coercion exercised or practisedwith respect to any employee in the matter of hiring, wage rates, training, upgrading, promotion, transfer, layoff, recall, discipline, discharge or
3
otherwise by reason of his membership or activity in the Union, or by reason of political or religious affiliation, sex or marital status or age contrary to the Human Rights Code.
Whenever the singular or masculine are used, they shall be construed as if the plural and feminine had been used where the context so requires, so long as no other meaning or intent results.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY & UNION
STEWARDS
4.01	The Company agrees that, subjectto compliance with the procedure hereinafter set out, it shall be a condition of employment that any employee who is a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member shall maintain such membership during the term of thisAgreement or any renewal thereof. An employee shall have satisfied the requirements of this clause so long as he pays his regular monthly Union dues.
4.02	No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against this application for membership or for reinstatement as a member in the Union except as may be provided in the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union, and no coercion or intimidation of any kind shall be practised to compel or influence any employee to join the Union, nor shall any discrimination of any kind
4
whatever be practised or permitted with respect to employees who are orwho become members of the Union.
4.03	If any employee asserts that he has paid his regular monthly dues and the Union denies same, such assertion shall constitutea grievance and shall be dealt with according to the Grievance Procedure established by this Agreement.
4.04	(a) Employees on the payroll of the Company
as of September8,1990, may become and thereafter remain members of the Union as a condition of employment.
(b) All employees of the Company hired on or after September 8, 1990, shall, upon completion of the probationary period, become and thereafter remain members of the Union as a condition of employment.
TheCompanyshallremittothe Unionwithin thirty (30) calendar days following the completion of the probationary period, the United Food & Commercial Workers Membership Applicationform signed by the new employee.
4.05	(a) All employees shall, as a condition of
employment, authorize the deduction of Union dues and initiation fees. Such deductions will commence with the
5
employee's first pay. This deduction shall not include any special assessment.
(b)	The Company agrees to make the deduction, set out in Article 4.05 (a) from each employee in the bargaining unit. The Company will remit the total sum so deducted to the Union on or before the 15th calendar day of the following month, accompanied by a list of employees and their Social InsuranceNumbers from whose pay such deductions have been made.
(c)	Dues& Initiation Fees
The remittance statement shall be documented by location containing a dues and initiation reportwhich will be provided in the form of e-mail (remit@ufcw175.com) or on a computer diskette as well as a hard copy of the dues report being attached to the remittance cheques. The information provided shall be on a standard spreadsheet in Excel, Quattro Pro, Lotus or other software program acceptable and adaptable to the Union. The spreadsheet will be in a format provided by the Union and the Company will provide the following information: as known to the Company.
1.	S.I.N.
2.	Employee number if applicable
6
3.	Full name(Last/First/lnitials)
4.	Full address, including City	and	Postal
Code
5.	Telephone number (including area code)
6.	Date of hire
7.	Rate of pay
8.	Classification
9.	Full-time or part-time designation
10.	Union dues deducted (or the reason a deduction was not made). If dues are deducted weekly, report requires five (5) columns for reporting
11.	Total dues deducted
12.	Back dues owing
13.	Vacation pay breakdown
14.	Initiation fees deducted
15.	Total Initiation Fees deducted
4.06	The Company agrees to listthe amount of Union dues paid on employees' T4 forms for income tax purposes.
4.07	The Plant Chairman and the Union Office shall be furnished with the name and address of each new employee and each employee who is to be laid off or terminated. Such list shall be provided once each month.
4.08	The Union shall advise the Company, in writing, the amount of the Union dues and the initiation fee which the Company is required to deduct from each eligible employee. The Company will
7
be advised, in writing, of any further changes in the Union dues or initiation fees.
4.09	(a) Union Stewards and Plant Chairperson:
The Union will have the right to appoint or elect eight (8) Union Stewards and a Plant Chairperson. The names of these Stewards and Plant Chairperson will be submitted to the Company, in writing. No employee will be recognized as Union Steward or Plant chairperson until they have completed their probationary period.
Live Receiving	One	Steward
Receiving and EvisceratingOne Steward Cry-O-Vac	One	Steward
Shipping & Freezer
Handling	One	Steward
Further Processing	One	Steward
Specialty Department One Steward Maintenance, Engineering One Steward Sanitation	One	Steward
The Union will have the right to appoint or elect additional Union Stewards in the above departments if the Employer runs additional shifts(2nd shifts) inthese respectivedepartments.
n	Union Stewards for a specific department should
'V^ be first selected from employees having department seniority, however in the absence of a candidatefrom the department, then a steward
8
for the department may be elected or appointed from members on that shift. If there are no candidates for that department steward position on that shift, then a steward may be elected or appointed plant wide to represent that specific department.
(b)	Union Negotiating Committee:
The Union shall have the right to appoint or elect five (5) Union members to the Negotiating Committee. The Plant Chairperson will automatically be appointed to a position on the NegotiatingCommittee. The Company agrees to pay for a total of five (5) Union members to be paid eight (8) hours per day while attending negotiations with the Company Representative. The employer agrees to pay for half(!4) the cost of meeting rooms for all negotiations.
ARTICLE 5 - SLOWDOWNS AND INTERRUPTION
OF PRODUCTION
5.01	It is agreed that the Union and its members individually and collectively will not, during the term of this Agreement, cause, permit or take part in any strike. The Company reserves the rightto discipline any employee taking part in any violation of this provision of this Agreement. There shall be no lockoutbythe Company during the term of this Agreement. Strike and lockout' shall be defined in accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9
6.01	Should differences arise between the Union and its members and the Company as to the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of this Agreement, including whether or not the difference is arbitrable, every such difference shall be submitted by the aggrievedemployee to adjustment inthe manner and order provided in the grievance procedure set forth below.
6.02	It is mutually agreed that the parties shall adhere faithfully to the following procedures:
Step 1
No complaintor grievanceshall be considered by the Company if the alleged circumstances occurred more than fifteen (15) working days prior to the submission of the complaint or grievance. The aggrieved employee will present his complaint to the foreman of his Department and may be accompanied by the Steward or the Plant Chairperson if he so chooses. If the employee decides to handle his own grievance, the Foreman will notify the Steward. The Foreman will advise the Steward within three (3) working days, in writing, as to whether the complaint has been resolved. Failing settlement of the complaintthe complaint will proceed to the next step.
10
Step 2
In the event a settlement is not reached, the grievance will be reduced to writing. The Steward will present the grievance to the Manager cf Employee Relations or designate. The grievor and the Steward and the Plant Chairperson and the Manager of Employee Relations or designate will meet to discuss the grievance. If the grievance is not resolved, then it will proceed to the next Step.
Step 3
If the grievance is not resolved, then the grievor, if requested by the parties, the Steward, Plant Chairperson and the Union Representative may meet with the Manager of Employee Relations or designate in an attempt to resolve the grievance.
Arbitration
In the event a settlement is not reached in the third step, the grievance may be referred to a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall consist of three (3) members, one (1) nominated by the Union, one (1) nominated by the Company, and the Chairman appointed by such two (2) nominees. The costs and expenses of the Board of Arbitration shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union, except that each of the
11
parties will bear costs and expenses of the nominee appointed by it. Neither party will be responsible for the expense of the witnesses called by the other.
In the event that such two (2) nominees are unable to agree on a Chairman, then the Chairman shall be the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario, or such person as the Minister of Labour shall appoint. The decision of the Board shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union, and the employees.
6.03	Any employee who is dismissed for any reason whatsoever and feels that he or she has been unjustly dealt with, shall have the right, within seventy-two (72) hours from the receipt of such notice of dismissal, to notify the Union and the Company, in writing, that he or she desires the dismissal in question to constitute a grievance subject to the Grievance Procedure starting at Step 3.
6.04	A grievance affecting the rate of pay of an individual shall be handled in accordance with the Grievance Procedure and if subsequent settlement results in rates of any pay being increased, the effective date of such increases shall be decided upon as part of the decision, but such date shall not be prior to the date on which the grievance was presented.
1Z
6.05	The Plant Chairperson and the Union Steward will be allowed the necessary time off, with pay, in the first three (3) steps of the Grievance Procedure set forth in clause 6.02, for time lost during hours worked by his or hergang including any applicable overtime penalty, to attend grievance meetings with the Company-designated representatives for the purpose of settling grievances. If it is necessary for the Plant Chairperson and/or Union Stewardto leave their jobs in order to handle the grievance with the Company representatives, they shall not leave their jobs without first securing permission to do so from their respective Foreman or Supervisor, provided that the Supervisor will grant such permission as promptly as it is possible without duly interfering with production.
Such permission will not be unreasonably denied.
6.06	No employee shall be suspended or discharged without written notice being given for such action, with a copy being given to the Chief Steward.
6.07	The Company agrees that whenever an interview is held with an employee that becomes part of his work record regarding his work conduct, the Plant chairperson or Union Steward will be present. The employee may request that the Plant Chairperson or Union Steward leave the meeting. if a Union Steward is not available, then the meeting will be rescheduled to a time
13
when he is available. The Employer has the right to send an employee home, with pay, pending investigation of any wrong doing. Upon completion of investigation, the Employer will then have a Union Steward present if they conclude that an employee needs to be disciplined. If a meeting is held without a Union Steward, any conclusions, verbal or written, will be null and void except in the case where the employee requestedthe Union Steward to leave.
6.08	Proven theft shall be just cause for immediate dismissal, and the Arbitrator or Arbitration Board shall not have any power to modify or alter such penalty or to substitute any other penalty therefore.
6.09	Neither party shall raise or proceed with a timeliness issue argument regarding “filing for arbitration” without having notified the other party of its final position on any given grievance in writing.
Should either party serve such notice on the other party, the parties further agree that the final time frame in the Collective Agreement respecting “filing for arbitration” shall then be triggered.
The parties further agree that any Board of Arbitration or single arbitrator shall have full jurisdiction to adjudicate the matter
14
respecting timeliness in light of this agreement and shall not be restricted by the Ontario Labour Relations Act in doing.
ARTICLE 7 ■ HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, AND HOLIDAY PAY
7.01	It is recognized by both parties that employees may be required to work in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day or forty (40) hours in any one week, but no employee will be required to work an unreasonable number of hours.
7.02	The normal work week for all employees except Engineers and three (3) Maintenance Department Employees shall be Mondaythrough Friday inclusive.
7.03	(a) An employee shall be paid one and one-half
(1%) times his regular hourly rate of pay for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a day or in excess of forty (40) hours in a week or on Saturday.
(b) An employee shall be paid two (2) times his regular hourly rate of pay for all time worked on Sundays or Paid Holidays.
This provision does not apply to Engineers who will continue to be paid one and one-half (1%) times their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on Sunday.
(c)	An employee who is required to work in excess of twelve (12) continuous hours shall be paid two (2) times his regular rate of pay for all time so worked.
(d)	Reference to hours worked in Article 7.02 (a) and (b) shall include hours paid by the Company.
(e)	There shall be no accumulating of overtime premiums for the same hours worked but the highest single premium shall apply under the provisions of the preceding paragraphs 7.03 (a) and (b) of this Article.
(f)	Notwithstanding 7.03	(a) above, a
Sanitation or a Maintenance Department employee shall be paid one and one-half (1%) times his regular rate of pay for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a day, except when a period of twelve (12) hours exists between the completion of the first shift and the commencement of the second shift in the same day unless otherwise mutually agreed.
(q) The following shall be observed as Paid Holidays:
New Year's Day	Labour Day
Family Day (3rd Monday in February) Thanksgiving Day	Good Friday
Remembrance Day	Victoria Day
16
Christmas Day	Canada Day
Boxing Day	Civic Holiday
All paid holidays shall be observed between Monday and Friday inclusive.
7.04	Employees ordered to report for work shall be furnished four (4) hours work, or pay at their appropriate rate in lieu of work, providing they report within fifteen (15) minutes of the time designated.
The four (4) hour guarantee will be reduced by the amount of time late in excess of fifteen (15) minutes to a maximum of one (1) hour. The four (4) hour guarantee will be waived should the employee report late in excess of one (1) hour.
7.05	Adequate relief for personal needs will be provided. A ten (10) minute break will be scheduled as nearthe mid-point in each half of the shift as possible.
Employees working in excess of nine (9) continuous hours in any one (1) day will be entitled to one (1) additional relief period of ten (10) minutes. Employees working in excess of twelve (12)continuous hours will beentitledto an additional relief period often (10) minutes.
Consideration will be given in each Department to the distance from the Department to the cafeteria and washroom corridors that
17
employees must travel to get to these areas. Fair consideration is to be given to employees who must remove gloves and aprons and wash hands upon leaving or re-entering their Department.
The intent of this language is to ensure employees receive a full ten (10) minute break from the time they enter the employee welfare areas, (i.e. washrooms and cafeteria corridor areas).
7.06	Employees shall not be required to work over five (5) hours without a meal period, except that employees may work six (6) hours in order to finish the day's work.
7.07	There will be an unpaid one (1) hour lunch period for the first shift. There will be an unpaid thirty (30) minute lunch period for the second shift, excluding sanitation and maintenance.
7.08	Employees are expected to attend work as scheduled. When unable to attend, the Department Manager or designated assistant must be notified where practicable, within one-half (112) hour before, and in any event within one (1) hour after the commencement of the scheduled shift of the employee. The Company will determine, on an individual basis, acceptable reasons as to why the above time limits were not met.
18
7.09	If any employee is absent for three (3) consecutive working days, without good and proper reason, or without he or his agent having advised the Company of the reason for such absence prior to the expiration of such three (3) consecutive work day period, unless unable to do so for good and sufficient reason, he shall be subject to immediate dismissal. Agent, when applied to this Clause 7.09, shall mean spouse, family member, or Union official.
7.10	The Company will continue its current practice of considering the needs of individual employees in conjunction with the needs ofthe Employer when staffingovertime in conjunction with the overtime clauses of the contract. The employee will make the effort to work the overtime.
7.11	The Company agrees to maintain a twelve (12) hour seven (7) day continuous operation shift schedule on a trial period basis for those employees in the Engineering Department who work such shifts, providing that maintaining the schedule does not increase the Company's cost of operation.
The hours of work shall be as scheduled by the Company and a shift premium of sixty
19
cents ($.60) per hour, effective date of ratification, will bepaidforall hours worked from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Overtime will be paid at the rate of double time (2X) for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours on any one shift, and for all shifts worked which are in addition to and consecutive with the normal twelve (12) hour shift schedule.
Upon converting to a new schedule, no premium or overtime shall be paid to any employee by reason of transferring from one standard work week to anotherwork week or vice versa.
Holiday pay will be paid at the rate of eight (8) hours' pay at the employee's straight time hourly rate if he does not work on the day on which the holiday falls, However, if as a part of his regular scheduling, an employeeworks on that day, he will be paid thirty-two (32) hours' pay at his straight time hourly rate.
Bereavement and Jury Duty will be paid based on the twelve (12) hour shift providing he is otherwise eligible for same. Sickness and Accident will be paid as per Article 19, providing he is otherwise eligible.
An employee's vacation week will commence at the end of his last regular shift immediately
20
preceding the start of his vacation, and he will return to work at the start of the first full shift immediately following his vacation. Vacations may not be taken in daily increments.
If an employee is to be laid off, he may choose instead to use up any vacation in excess of two (2) weeks up to the maximum of his vacation entitlement.
Forty (40) hours of time off will constitute one
(1)	week's vacation, paid at the applicable percentage outlined in Article 9.02. For example, an employee eligible for a total of six (6) weeks' vacation will be entitled to a total of 240 hours or 20 shifts of time off in that vacation year.
The allocation of vacation dates will be governed by Article 9,06.
ARTICLE 8 - PAY FOR HOLIDAYS NOT WORKED
8.01	All regular full-time employees (not including part-time employees) shall be paid their regular rate of pay for eight (8) hours on each statutory holiday set forth in paragraph 7.03 (g) of Article 7.
21
Part-time employees (those employeeswho work regularly but only for a part of the regular work day or work week), shall be paid for each statutory holiday set forth in paragraph 7.03 (g) of Article 7, an amount equivalent to that percentageofeight(8) hours' pay at their regular rate which the total number of hours worked by each part-time employee inthe week inwhich the holiday occurs is of forty (40) hours.
8.02	An employee who incurs missed hours on the last working day preceding and/or the next work day following the holiday shall have their holiday pay deducted by the equivalent time missed, unless such absences were due to illness or causes beyond the control of the employee. Proof of reason for absence will be required. The Company shall pay 100% of all medical documentation as requested.
8.03	Ifoneofthe paid holidays outlined in Clause 7.03
(g)	occurs within an employee's vacation period, the employee may elect either of the following:
(a)	To receive eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate for such paid holiday in addition to his vacation pay, or:
(b)	Electto take an additional day off, with pay, at the employee's option, provided that the date chosen by the employee does not reduce staffing below the provisions in article 9.03 (b).

(C)
In addition to the choices under Article 8.03, the Company agrees to continue the practice of allowing employees to bank a paid holiday, which may be used if calling in sick to cover for that sick day, providing, however, that the banked holiday shall not be counted as forming any part of the waiting period for a sickness and accident claim under Article 19.04. Nor shall it be used for either the working day preceding or following a paid holiday.
8.04	Regular employees drawing sickness and accident pay when a paid holiday occurs, shall receive, under this Article 8, only the amount by which the pay for the paid holiday hereunder exceeds such sickness and accident pay.
8.05	If one or more of the above holidays occur while an employee is away on leave of absence, in accordance with Article 15.01, the employee shall receive no pay for such holiday.
8.06	Regular Employee: Person who has attained Plant and Department seniority.
Regular Floater Employee: Person who has completed the probationary period and has achieved Plant seniority, but has not achieved Department seniority as per Article 10.04.
23
Temporary Employee: One who works from May 1st to August 31st - as per Article 8.07.
Part-time Employee:	One who does not
normally work more than twenty-four (24) hours in the week, or part-time employees hired for a specific job or short duration not to exceed four (4) weeks.
Probationary Employee:	One who has not
completed his probationary period as per10.04. However, if a probationary employee is hired into a job not filled internally by a job posting, he shall be considered a regular employee for bumping purposes.
8.07	The Companyagreesthattemporaryemployees who are hired from May 1st to August 31st will notaccumulate seniority. Temporaryemployees hired forthe summerwhich will be from Maylst to August 31st have no seniority rights for the purpose of hours of work, overtime hours or guaranteeof hours. Should a summertemporary employee continue to remain in the employment of the Company after August 31st, he will then commence a probationary period.
A regular employee who is reassigned for all or part of a shift to another department, or who bumps a temporary/part-time/floater employee, will not be bumped by another regularemployee. Such regular employee will work the hours that
24
the temporary/part-time/floater employee was scheduled to work.
ARTICLE 9 - VACATIONS
9.01	For the purpose of calculating eligibility, the anniversary date shall be determined from the employee's date of hire.
9.02	Vacations, with pay, will be granted by the Company in accordance with the following:
Less than 1 year - 2 weeks off at 4% of T4 earnings.
Effective January 1,2006,1 year but less than 5 years employment— 2 weeks off at four percent (4%) of T4 earnings or thirty five (35) hours' pay per week, whichever is greater;
5 years but less than 12 years employment —
3	weeks off at six percent (6%) of T4 earnings or thirty (30) hours' pay per week, whichever is greater:
Effective January 1,2006 - 5 years but less than 10 years employment — 3 weeks off at six percent (6%) of T4 earnings or thirty five (35) hours' pay per week, whichever is greater:
12 years but less than 18 years employment—
4	weeks off at eight percent (8%) ofT4 earnings
25
or thirty (30) hours' pay per week, whichever is greater;
Effective January 1, 2006 - 10 years but less than 18 years employment — 4 weeks off at eight percent (8%) of T4 earnings or thirty five (35) hours' pay perweek, whichever is greater: 18 years but less than 25 years employment— 5 weeks off at ten percent (10%) of T4 earnings or thirty (30) hours' pay per week, whichever is greater;
Effective January 1,2006: 18 years but less than 25 years employment — 5 weeks off at ten percent (10%) of T4 earnings or thirty five (35) hours' pay per week, whichever is greater;
25 or more years of employment- - - 6 weeks off at twelve percent (12%) of T4 earnings or thirty (30) hours' pay per week, whichever is greater.
Effective January 1, 2008 22 or more years of employment — 6 weeks off at twelve percent (12%) of T4 earnings or thirty five (35) hours' pay per week, whichever is greater.
9.03	(a) Vacations during the period June 1st to August 30th will be scheduled by department and department seniority.
(b)	All employees eligible for two (2) or more weeks'vacation will be allowed up to two (2) weeks' vacation during this period.
Zb
Employees in the Departments that have a planned two (2) week vacation shutdown shall take the balance ef their vacation by seniority, but the maximum number of employees off in each department per shift shall be the number of people in the department per shift divided by 6.5.
Live Receiving	1
Evis	7
Cryovac	7
Specialties	3
FFP	7
Freezer	2
Sanitation	2
Maintenance	1
Engineering	1
Dry Storage	1
Coat Room	1
If there is not planned vacation shutdown, then the number of employees in each department divided by 6.5 (orthe numbers above, whichever is greater), equals the maximum number of employees away on vacation in any week during June, July and August. If there is a vacation shutdown employees will be notified by January 31st.
(c)	Vacations during this period are not mandatory, and eligible employees may take one week's vacation during June, July and August if they choose. However, if the
27
Company does schedule a vacation shutdown during the last two (2) weeks of July, ending with the Civic Holiday weekend, either of specific departments or of the whole plant, all employees shall be required to take their vacations during this period. If there is a vacation shutdown, employees will be notified by January 31st.
(d)	As much as possible joint vacations for spouses who work at the plant and are eligible for vacation may beaccommodated. Final determination will be made subject to
(a)	and (b) of 9.03.
(e)	Unusual or special occasions will be given consideration of a requestfor more than two
(2)	week's vacation during this period if requested. Final allocation will be made by the superintendent.
(f)	Employees who are entitled to three (3) or more weeks'vacation and who would prefer to take their additional weeks during June, July and August may select the additional weeks by seniority, once all employees haveselectedtheirvacationsforthis period, subjectto the formula in Article 9.03(b). Full weeks vacation will take precedentoverone (1) day vacations. One (1) day vacations will be booked after full week vacations are complete, then by seniority while respecting Article 9.03(b).
9.04	For the purpose of Article 9 - Vacations, T4 earnings do not include previous vacation paid during that year.
9.05	Employees who become sick or are injured prior to receiving their vacation shall be entitled to reschedule such vacation at a time mutually agreeable between the Company and the employee. It is understood and agreed that employees are not required to take their vacation entitlement while on layoff.
9.06	Vacations will, as far as possible, be granted for the period selected by the employee, but final allocation of vacation periods is left to the Company in orderto assure orderly operation of the Poultry Processing Plant. If there is a conflict between employees in the choice of vacation dates, department seniority shall prevail. Vacation lists will be posted in each department by March 31st.
9.07	Vacations will be granted only in the vacation year (January Ito December 31) in which they are due and may not be carried over to the following vacation year. If, however, due to some emergency, an employee is not permitted to take his vacation during the vacation year in which it is due, he shall have the right to take it in the ensuing vacation year.
29
9.08	All employees who are eligible will be required to take two (2) weeks' vacation per year. Employees with more than two (2) weeks' may at their option choose not to take their additional vacation, but rather be paid the money in lieu. If an employee is to be laid off he may choose instead to use up any vacation in excess of two (2) weeks up to the maximum of his vacation entitlement, in daily or weekly increments. An employee may use all remaining weeks of vacation into one (1) day increments other than the two (2) weeks used for shutdown as approved by his supervisor, such approval will not be unreasonably denied. When requesting a vacation day to attend an appointment, a minimum one (1) week's notice should be given. When requesting a vacation day due to an emergency, a minimum one (1) hour notice prior to the commencement of the employee's scheduled shift must be given by the employee. If a stat holiday falls during the week that an employee is on vacation, then the employee may take that extra stat holiday as a floater at some later date, mutually agreeable to the employee and management.
9.09	(a) An employee eligible for vacation who is
laid off because of reduction in his gang, shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he has qualified.
(b)	An employee eligible for vacation whose employment is terminated for any reason
30
shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he had become eligible. In the case of death, such pay shall be paid to his Estate or the person legally entitled.
9.10	The Company agrees to allow employees to be paid vacation pay in consecutive weeks, if requested.
9.11	All of the vacation provisions of the Agreement shall be read, subject to applicable Provincial and/or Dominion Statutes and to the extent that the benefits required under such statutes are more favourable to the employees than the vacation benefits provided by this Agreement, such statutes shall prevail.
ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY
10.01	Seniority of employees shall be defined as length of continuous employment with the Company in the bargaining unit.
10.02	Service is defined as length of continuous employment with the Company.
10.03	Throughout the Agreement, the following shall apply:
(a)	seniority shall apply to all Articles except vacation, pension, wages, separation pay, and sickness and accident;
31
(b)	service shall apply to vacations and wages;
(c)	total credited service, as defined in Article 16 earned prior to Septembers, 1990, plus service earned following September 8, 1990, shall apply to separation pay and sickness and accident benefits;
(d)	credited service, as defined in Article 16, shall apply to the existing Company Pension Plan.
10.04	Seniority shall operate on a combination of Department and Plant basis. An employee shall acquire Plant seniority rights after he has attained four (4) calendar months of service. Until that time, he shall be considered a probationary employee as per8.06 and 8.07 and may be separated from the Company employ at any time without reference to seniority, and the Company shall be under no obligation to rehire him.
However, if an employee completes more than four (4) calendar months of service, his seniority shall commence from his original date of employment for Plant seniority purposes. Department seniority is acquired upon being awarded a job posting, being hired into a job not filled by the posting, or upon assigning a regular floater employee to a job, providing he has the ability and merit to do the work required.
32
10.05	(a) There will be nine (9) seniority Departments as follows:
1(a)	Live Receiving and Eviscerating
(b)	Cry-0-Vac
(c)	Shipping and Freezer Handling
(d)	Further Processing
(e)	Maintenance
(f)	Engineering
(g)	Sanitation
(h)	Specialty Department
(i)	Dry Storage
(j)	Coat Room
(b) Overtime in a seniority Department will be performed:
Firstly, by those employees having seniority in that Department.
Secondly, by those employees who have signed the Available to Work/Reduced Hours and Overtime List as per Letter of Understanding No. 3. Employees who have signed the extra hours/OT list and have been assigned to work will be subject to Article 7.08 and all absenteeism policies and programs.
Thirdly, ifthere is not a sufficient number of employees to work inthe Departmentwhere the overtime is to be worked, the Company has the right to assign the employees from
33
other Departments to that Department to perform such overtime work, on a reverse seniority basis, providing the employee is qualified to perform the work required.
(c)	Notwithstanding Articles 10.05 and 10.06, any hours less than eight (8) hours will be identifiedas reduced hours as per Article 10.06.
Regularemployees temporarily assigned to another department for that day, in accordance with this Letter of Understanding #3, will remain in that Department for eight (8) hours or conclusion of the shift, whichever occurs first.
Any overtime beyond eight (8) hours will be offered according to Plant seniority that is signed on the Daily Reduced Hours and Overtime list.
Employees who return to work extra hours will be paid time and one-half (1 112) their regular hourly rate for all hours worked in that Department where the overtime premium commences upon completion of that shift.
34
The requirement to pay overtime to an employee returning to work to fill an overtime position will not become effective until that employee has worked eight (8) hours, if the reason the employee had reduced hours was due to his leaving work for any reason other than the Company had no work for the employee at the time the hours in the Department the employee was working were reduced.
For the purpose of this provision, the requirement by the Company to recall workers tofill overtime positions will not extend beyond the Daily Reduced Hours and Overtime list which will be posted daily.
(d)	The Reduced Hours and Overtime list will be followed on the basis of seniority and ability to fill overtime positions without reference to the Plant-wide seniority or Departmentseniority listand onlyafterthe provisions of Article 10.05 allowing overtime to be performed by those havingseniority in the Department where overtime is to be worked.
35
10.06	(a) Employees who experience reduced hours of work within a seniority Department shall have no right to do any work except that which is performed within such seniority Department, unless otherwise directed by the Company.
(b)	Employees with Plant and Department seniority who experience reduced hours of work may bump temporary, floater or parttime employees during regular hours providing:
1)	They have signed an "Available to Work Reduced Hours and Overtime Posting" list, the day the work is to be performed by the end of the morning break.
2)	They are availableto workthe dayfor which they posted.
3)	i) Once a person with Department
seniority bumps a floater, temporary or part-time person, the seniority person will not be bumped again during regular hours.
ii)	Provided there is at least one-half (1/2) hour remaining in regularly scheduled hours including transfer time.
iii)
Transfer time as described below:
36
As per the current practice, employees within cool room process areas are expected to go directly to the position assigned after putting away their tools and washing their gloves.
Employees who transfer from Evisceratingto cool processareas will be allowed a maximum of eight (8) minutes to change and report to their assigned Department.
Employees who transfer from Freezer/Shipping area will be allowed a maximum of seven (7) minutes to change out of insulated clothing and report to their assigned Department.
An employee from Live Receiving will be allowed a maximum of ten (10) minutes to clean up and reportto the assigned position. If more than one (1) employee from Live Receiving is transferring, they will be assigned to other areas to clean up and then report to assigned position.
Employees moving from warm areas to cool areas may be required to go to washroom shortly after entering assigned areas.
37
4)	This will include overtime as per Article 10.06.
5)	This will not include Maintenance, Engineering or Sanitationfor the purpose of this Article, with the exception that in a layoff situation, it will include temporarily assigned unskilledj obs.
6)	(a) Starting times will be scheduled by
seniority if greater than two (2) hours or more differential to be applied to temporary, floaters or part-time employees.
(b)	Because of chilling equipment, the Union agrees to work with the Company to resolve any difficulties created by language.
(c)	Employees training or participating in Company-sponsored courses shall not be bound to the terms of Articles
10.05,10.06	(a) and(b), providedsuch training orcoursewas prearranged in writing at least one (1) calendar week
in advance. This will apply to the employees presently doing the work.
(d)	The Union and the Company agree that during a period of reduced
38
hours, notto exceed two (2) days in a calendar week a seniority department experiencing reduced hours of work shall have no right to do any work outside such department until a maximum period of two (2) days has lapsed, atwhichtime Clause 10.07 (a) will prevail subjectto 10,05,10.07 (b) and (c).
10.07	(a) Layoffs from the Plant occasioned by gang rearrangements, pursuant to a reduction in volume of work to be handled, will be made according to Plant seniority, provided that an employee who would thus be retained can satisfactorily perform the job that is assigned.
|(b)	In the event of a temporary layoff not
exceeding four (4) weeks or more in any specific department, the affected department employees will be laid off in order of seniority with the most junior employee to be laid off first, and providing any employee retained inorder of seniority, possesses the skill and ability to meet the normal requirements of job.
(c)	In the event of a temporary layoff exceeding four (4) weeks or more but
39
less than thirteen (13) weeks in any specific department, the department employees may elect to bump according to overall plant seniority into any department. The most senior employee affectedwill be approached with the first opportunity to bump or elect temporary layoffs, followed by the next most senior employee affected, and providing any employee retained in order of seniority, possesses the skill and ability to meet the normal requirements of job. Employee seniority shall transfer with employee. Employees will be given a trial period of up to fifteen (15) working days for the employee to decide if he wishes to relinquish their bumpingrights and exercise their rights to elect a temporary layoff, where there is no further bumping rights available to the employee, the Company may elect to assign the employee to layoff only as a direct result of an inability to performthe duties of the position elected.
In the event of a permanent closure of any department or a permanent layoff exceeding thirteen (13) weeks in any specific department or plant wide, employees may elect to bump according
40
to overall plant seniority into any department. The most senior employee affectedwill be approachedwith the first opportunity to bump, followed by the next most senior employee affected, and providing any employee retained inorder of seniority, possesses the skill and ability to meet the normal requirements of job. Employee election will become their permanent position and seniority will transfer with employees. Employee will be given a trial period up to fifteen (15) working days to decide if he wishes to remain inelected position or bump the most junior employee in another department which will become permanent position, remaining vacancy will be posted plant wide. The Company will be given fifteen (15) working days to decide if the employee possesses the skill and ability to perform the normal requirements of the position elected, otherwise employee will be given the opportunity to bump the most junior employee in another department.
(e)	In the event of (c) or (d) no employee shall have the right to bump into a skilled trade classification unless he has the skill, ability and certification to perform the work. Skilled trade
41
classifications will include Schedule“B” classifications.
(f)	Inthe event of (c) or(d) all probationary employees will be laid off prior to any regular or part time employees.
(g)	In the event of a technological change, which means the introduction of new or additional equipment or equipment layout redesign, that causes a reduction of labour in a particular department, the redeployment of the employee(s) will be done in the following manner;
Fill any available positions in the Plant that have not been filled according to Article 10.09 or displace any probationary employee in the Plant. All above positions will be posted in the department where the technological change has occurred in accordancewith 10.09. In the event the technological change causes a permanent layoff, Article 10.07 (d) would apply.
(ti) Recall From Layoff
Recallfrom layoff shall be by seniority- first to the most senior employee of their former department, then former job (immediately
42
prior to layoff) as it becomes available, then to employees who exercised their bumping rights to avoid layoffs to their former department, then to job (immediately prior to layoff) as it becomes available, then to employees on layoff in order of their seniority where jobs become available, and providing they possess the skill and ability to meet the normal requirementsof the position available, then to their former position as it becomes available.
Where an employee has been recalled to a position available which is not their former job, employee will be assigned to positions that have not been filled within the Plant until their former job becomes available.
Employees shall have recall rights for a period of twenty-four (24) months.
TheCompanyshall notifythe employee by the present method of contact or by letter at their last known address. It isthe responsibility of the employee to inform the Company of any changes to contact information.
Employees will be given five (5) days from notification date within which to report. Employees who are unable to report within the five (5) day period due to sickness or
T3
accident will be given additional time within which toreport, provided period of non-report is supported by acceptable medical evidence which prevents their return to work. Employees unable to report due to extenuating circumstances must provide the Employer with acceptable evidence to support non-reporting.
10.08	Seniority Departments and the Plant working force will be increased in the following Manner:
First: An employee who has been assigned from his original Department to another Department shall be recalled to his original Department.
Second: An employee with Plant seniority will be recalled in order of Plant seniority provided such employee is qualified to perform the job which is open.
Third: By implementing employees approved requests for transfers, pursuant to Clause 10.09.
10.09	Job Postings
Permanent job vacancies or new jobs created within a department will be offered first to employees within that department, the Employer shall post a notice of such vacancy on the
44
department bulletin board(s) for seven (7)working days and a copy of the notice shall be sent to the Union. The notice shall set out a description of the job, the qualifications (if applicable) required of applicants for the job, the hours of work (shift) and the wage rate for the job. Where ability and merit are sufficient, department seniority shall prevail. Any employee off work for the following reasons: bereavement, WSIB, on sickness or accident benefit, vacation or leave of absence shall be notified of all job postings, and will be given an opportunityto sign the posting. Ifthe company is unable to contact the employee by the end of the posting date, the company will then move to the next senior employee on the posting.
Where a job vacancy occurs or a new job is created and cannot be filled within the department, the Employer shall post a notice of such vacancy on all bulletin boards for seven (7) working days and a copy of the notice shall be sent to the Union. The notice shall set out a description of the job, the qualifications (if applicable) required of applicants for the job, the hours of work (shift) and the wage rate for the job. Where ability and merit are sufficient, plant seniority shall prevail. Any employee off work for the following reasons: bereavement, WSIB, on sickness or accident benefit, vacation or leave cf absence shall be notified of all job postings, and will be given an opportunityto sign the posting. Ifthe company is
unable to contact the employee by the end of the posting date, the company will then move to the next senior employee on the posting.
With the exceptionofthoseregularemployeeswho have department seniority, if the vacancy still remains the Company shall assign the job to a regular floater employee on a reverse seniority basis, providing the employee has the ability and merit to do the work required.
If the vacancy still remains, the Company may hire to fill the vacancy. This employee will be categorized as a Probationary Employee, as per Article 8.06. Once a Probationary Employee has successfully completed their probation period and has achieved department seniority, the employee cannot transfer to another department for a twelve (12) month period. The employee is eligible to apply for their departmental postings.
An employee who has posted or who has been assigned to another department will have his plant seniority transferred to his new department. The Plant Chairwill receive a list of names and dates of hire of all new employees.
There will be a trial period of up to fifteen (15) working days for the employee to decide if he wants to return, or for the Company to decide to return the employee to his original job. If he returns then any other employees who changed
46
jobs as a result of the original posting may be returned back to their original jobs.
An employee moving into a new job will be considered part of the department commencing on a Monday.
The Plant Chair will receive a list of names and dates of hire of all new employees.
Once the regular employee, who has achieved greater than twelve (12) months Plant Seniority, has successfully completed the trial period, the employee cannot transfer to another position for six (6) months, unless the transfer would be consideredprogression(increase in pay or change of shift).
10.10	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited, and there is no obligation to rehire when he:
(a)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or discharged for cause.
(b)	Fails to return to work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company. Employeeswill be notified by the present method of contact (or by letter or by telegram, etc.) at their last known address, and they will be expected to report as directed. Failure to do so, or failure to accept a comparable job offered,
47
shall forfeit their seniority rights provided, however, that in cases of inability to report as directed upon immediate notification to the Company, they will be given five (5) additional days within which to report. Employees who are unable to report within this five (5) day period because of sickness or accident, will be given additional time within which to report, such time not to exceed the period that such disability, as shown by acceptable medical evidence, prevents their return to work.
(c)	Has been out of employment by the Company for a periodof twelve (12) months or longer due to lack of work.
10.11	An employee having acquired seniority who is later employed by the Company outside of the bargaining unit, if subsequently returned to the bargaining unit within twelve (12) months of his exit from the bargaining unit, shall have all of his service with the Company included in the seniority assigned to him on such return.
10.12	If an employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness, he shall, upon his return to work:
(a)	be returned to his job previously held. If unable because of medical reasons to perform the work, then;
48
(b)	he shall be placed on a job of equal pay provided he possesses the ability to qualify for that position. If unable because of medical reasons to perform the work, then:
(c)	all efforts shall be made to provide work the employee is physically able to perform.
It is understood that in no instance will a new job be created for the purpose of reemploying such employee.
10.13	Plant and Department seniority lists will be posted bi-monthly. If no question concerning the seniority of any employee in the bargaining unit, as set forth on said list is presented by the Union to the Plant Manager within fourteen (14) calendardays after posting of such list, the Union and the employees shall be deemed to have agreed to the seniority of each employee in the bargaining unit as shown in the list posted by the Company. A copy shall be given to the Chief
Steward and one copy mailed to the Union with the Union dues remittance.
ARTICLE 11 - HEALTH AND SAFETY
11.01	The Company shall make all reasonable provisions for the occupational health and safety
49
of its employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices on machinery, procedures, and other safety equipmentdeemed necessary by the Company to protect employees from injury, shall be provided by the Company. It is the responsibility of all employees to wear safety equipment which is supplied, to observe safe working practices and to report unsafe conditions to the Employer. First Aid shall be available for workers on the 1st, 2nd and night shifts. Failure to comply with the provision of Article 11.01 referring to procedures and equipment shall result in disciplinaryaction being taken.
Joint Health and Safety Committee
The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall consist of no less than four (4) employee representatives that have been elected or appointed by the Union and no less than four (4) management representatives designated by the Company.
The Joint Health and Safety Committee will hold meetings as often as necessary, but not less than the requirement under Section 9 (33)ofthe O.H.S.A.
The Company shall furnish the Committee with copies of all test results pertaining to Health and Safety.
Inspections
50
The Health and Safety Committee, in compliance with the O.H.S.A. Section 8 (7) will inspect the physical condition of the workplace at least twice a year, inspecting at least a part of the workplace each month.
Critical Injuries
The Joint Health and Safety Committee is entitled to investigate cases where a worker has been killedor critically injuredin accordance with section 9 (31) of the Occupational Health and Safety Act RSO 1990.
Injured Worker
An employee who is injured at work and requires medical attention, and who on the advice of a doctor, is unable to returnto work shall be paid for the balance of his/her scheduled departmental hours, for the day upon which the injury occurred.
Workers Duty
Contacting his or her Employer as soon as possible after the injury occurs and maintaining ongoing and regular communication, minimum of once per month, throughout the period of the worker’s recovery and impairment.
51
11.02	The Company agrees to implement privacy measures.
ARTICLE12 - GENERAL
12.01	The Company will provide a bulletin board for Union notices only. Union notices may be posted on such bulletin board, subject to the approval of the Plant Manager or his designate as to context and contents. Such approval shall not unreasonably be withheld.
12.02	Nothing in this Agreement shall require the Company or the Union to take any action which shall be unlawful by reason of any applicable, present, or future statute, order or regulation of the Province of Ontario or of the Dominion of Canada.
12.03	(a) The Companywill furnish freezer coats, hair
nets, bump caps, hearing protection,rubber aprons, rubber gloves, steel gloves, sleevettes, cotton gloves, and other protective equipment which, in the opinion of the Company, is deemed necessary and all such equipment shall be worn by the employees. All employees' supplies are the property of the company and are not to-be worn outside of the property except for safety footwear. (When the company provides boot dryers then safety footwear are not to be worn outside of the property)
52
(b) The Company will furnish vests or freezer coats to all employees working in a refrigerated area. Worn out vests or freezer coats returned to the Company will be replaced at no cost to the employee. All vests and freezer coats are the property of the company and are not to be worn off the property of the company.
Note: The style and type of vest or freezer coats will be based upon the recommendation of the Healths Safety Committee.
The vests, so supplied, are to remain the property of the Company and shall not be taken out of the Plant.
The Employer shall supply a total of five (5) pairs of work pants and five (5)short sleeve or long sleeve work shirts to all new full-time employees of the Maintenance and Engineering departments for personal use at work for the summer months. In order to qualify for this provision, each full-time employee of the Maintenance and Engineering Department must wear this clothing at work as provided by the Company during the summer months. A maximum of five (5) pairs of replacement work pants and five (5) short sleeve or long sleeve work shirts will be available each year providing the worn out clothing is
53
turned in prior to April 15” of each year. This work wear is for personal use at work only. Distribution of this work wear will be prior to May 1sl each year. The employee will be responsible for laundry and repairs.
12.04	The Company will furnish white orcoloured outer coats and/or coveralls to employees working in areas that require the wearing of these coats and/or coveralls. The coats andlor coveralls, so supplied, are to remain the property of the Company and shall not be taken out of the Plant. The employees are to deposit the soiled coats and/or coveralls in the proper containers.
The Company will supply laundry service for the abovementioned coats andlor coveralls.
12.05(a) Effective the date of ratification, each employee who is required by the Company to wear rubber boots or vests will be furnished the same at no cost, except a probationary employee. An employee who has obtained plant seniority and is required to wear rubber boots or vests shall be supplied from Company stock or supplied a voucher by the Company and said employee will then purchase the required type of rubber boots or vests as supplied or from the recommended supplier. Such rubber boots or vests which, in the opinion of the Company, are worn out, shall be returned to the Company before being
54
replaced at no cost to the employee, providing such employee has acquired Plant Seniority, up to a maximum of two (2) pairs during any twelve (12) month period and as necessary for vests.
Notwithstanding the above, the Company will replace rubber boots on the basis of demonstratedneed shown to the Company.
(b) Effective the date of ratification, the Company agrees to provide to employees who have obtained plant seniority a monetary allowance to a maximum of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150) first of the month after the date of ratification, and one hundred fifty dollars ($150) to one hundred and sixty dollars ($160) July 1, 2009,once each calendaryeartowardsthe purchaseof C.S.A. approved safety footwear for use on the job. Such employees will become eligible for this allowance one year from the date of the previous purchase. This provision shall apply to employees who work in the following departments: Freezer / Shipping, Engineering, Maintenance, Dry Storage / Receiving, Quality Assurance posted positionsand employees postedinto Box Making, Knife Sharpening, Production Scheduler, HACCP Monitors.
In the event that the Union should disagree with the Company's opinion as to whether
---	-----------------------------55
In the event that the Union should disagree with the Company's opinion as to whether safety footwear on the job is or is not deemed necessary, the
Company agrees to discuss the issue with the Plant Safety Committee with a view to arriving at a satisfactory settlement agreeable to both parties.
(c)	In accordance with 12.05 (a), the Company agrees to offer a fleece type lined rubber boots in lieu of non-lined rubber boots in cool room areas.
(d)	Employees who are required by the Company to wear rubber gloves will be furnished these at no cost to the employee. Rubber gloves worn out or damaged shall be replaced immediately when old gloves are returned.
12.06	No employee outside of the bargaining unit will be used on work of the same nature as that performed by employees in the bargaining unit except as follows:
(a)	For the purpose of breaking in new employees or employees on a new job, or instructing employees;
(b)	For the purpose of taking an employee's place temporarily in such cases as failure to
56
show up for work, or who had to be relieved due to injury or sickness, or who, for other reason, is temporarily absent from the job;
1(c)	In locations which are isolated or gangs
which are not sufficiently large to justify the full-time use of a supervisor or managerial employee, and only if it has been the practice in the past to use such employees;
(d)	In the absence of a shift Engineer due to injury, or in the case of an emergency, the Chief Engineer will be permitted to work until such time as he can reschedule shift Engineers as required.
12.07	The Company agrees to supply sufficient scissors, knives, steels, mesh gloves and any other tools to employees in order that they can perform their jobs properly and safely, upon return of the worn out or broken above items.
12.08	The Employer will pay Union members for authorizedleaves for Union businessand bill the Local Union for lost wages and benefits, this does not include negotiations.
12.09	The Company will provide prior written notice to the Plant Chairperson and Stewards of any planned meetings.
12.10	The Company will supply a tool allowance of as indicated below to each Maintenance
57
Department employee and to each Engineering Department employee. Company agrees to D.O.R. to pay engineers $550 and adjust maintenance tool allowance by providing a further $50.00 to maintenance department employees. Effective June 1, 2009: adjust the tool allowance to $600 for all Maintenance Department Employees and Engineering Department Employees.
12.11	Any additions to the collective agreement during the term of the agreement, such as new letters of understanding, shall be voted on by the membership.
ARTICLE 13 - SEPARATION ALLOWANCES
13.01	Separation payments shall be made to employees having one (1) or more years of credited service who are permanentlyseparated from the service of the Company as a result of a reduction in the working force arising out cf the closing of a Department or Unit of the Company or as a result of a permanent layoff due to automation and/or technical change when it is not expected that the employee will be reemployed. An employee who refuses an offer of alternate employment may elect the severance package.
13.02	Separation payments shall not be made:
58
1.	To employees who have less than one (1) year's credited service:
2.	To employees who are laid off in gang reduction;
3.	To employees who are discharged for cause:
4.	To employees who voluntarily resign;
5.	To employees who are retired on Pension;
13.03	Separation allowances shall be computedon the basis of the following schedule, which is to be used in computing the number of weeks' pay according to the years of credited service, subject to Article 10.03 (c). Payments are to be computed on the basis of average hours worked during the previous four (4) full weeks at his regular rate of pay.
Years of Credited Service
Weeks of Pay
1 		.. 1
2 		2
3 		3
4 		4
5 		5
8 		8
9 		9
10 		,. 10
11 and over, add to .. . ,	, . . . 10
59
1 1/2 weeks' pay for each year of credited service above ten (10) years.
Example:
Twelve (12) years of credited service:
First ten (10) years credited service --- 10 weeks' pay.
Service overten (10) years (12-10 =2 x1 Vi) three
(3)	weeks' pay.
Total separation allowance— 13 weeks' pay.
To the separation allowance computed as per example, add vacation pay for the current calendar year ifthe employee has qualified for but not taken such vacation.
13.04	The amount due under the policy shall be paid as follows:
1.	Amounts less than or the same as the equivalent of four (4) weeks' pay — in one lump sum.
2.	Amounts more than the equivalent of four
(4)weeks' pay— weekly instalments of full wages until the total sum is exhausted. If, for good and sufficient reason, a lump sum
60
settlement is requested, it may be made when it is assuredly to the benefit of the employee.
3.	In the event of death, any unpaid balance shall be paid to the widow or dependents.
ARTICLE 14 ■ WAGES
14.01	Job Classifications and Wage Rates for each classification shall be as outlined in Schedule " A attached.
14.02	(a) Pay Cheques
All employees who finish their shift priorto 2:00 p.m. on Thursday shall be entitled to receive their pay provided such pay cheque is in order and available to be handed out.
(b) Vacation pay will be paid by separate cheque priorto commencement ofvacation, effective July 3, 1995.
14.03	When an employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job, he shall receive the higher rate, but if required temporarily to fill a lower rated job, he shall receive his regular rate.
When an employee is permanently transferred to a lower ratedjob, he shall receive his regular rate for a period of twelve (12) weeks from the date of such transfer and thereafter he shall receive the
61
such transfer and thereafter he shall receive the rate applicable to the lower rated job, unless such transfer was for the convenience of the Company.
Employees requesting a transfer to a lower rated job will receive the rate applicable to the lower rated job effective the date of the transfer.
14.04	Regular employees working between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. will receive additional compensation of sixty cents (600) per hour for each hourso worked effective date of ratification. Employees who work on a second shift shall be paid the premium for all hours worked on the second shift.
14.05	Employees cheque stubs shall show gross earnings, itemized deductions, regular hourly rate and net amount payable.
14.06	All new employees shall be paid through direct deposit. Employee payadvice slips will be issued to each employee that same week by Department Supervisor or designate.
ARTICLE 15 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
15.01	Leave of absence for the purpose of this Agreement, is defined to mean an absence from work with permission for a period of seven (7)
days or more, without pay or compensation of any kind..
15.02	A request for a leave of absence without pay for any legitimate purpose shall be considered by the Employer and shall not be unreasonably withheld on the basis of the length of credited service as follows:
After 9 months - under 5 years 1	month
5-10 years	2	months
10-15 years	3	months
Over 15 years	4	months
15.03	Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing an employee to take another position temporarily, try out new work, or venture into business for himself.
15.04	As a result of an employee's conviction in the Courts, the Company agrees to cooperate with the Courts and recognize a Temporary Absence Program.
The employee must present proof from the Court certifying the terms and duration of the sentence. He must also be able to fulfill all the terms and conditions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
ARTICLE 16 - CREDITED SERVICE
This Article is applicable only to those Articles or Clauses outlined in Article 10, Clause .03 (c) and .03 (d).
16.01	"Credited Service" shall mean the total of:
1.	For employees who were employed by Swift Canadian Co. Limited prior to January 14, 1981, and who were employees of the Company on January 14,1981, their credited serviceupto January14,1981, as determined under Article 17 of the Collective Agreement executedonFebruary24,1981, betweenSwift Canadian Co. Limited and the United Food & Commercial Workers Canada (Local Number 175) and,
2.	Foremployeeson and after January 14,1981, the period of service which they accumulated while on the Company's payroll, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	The period of absence due to the following causes will be credited to the employee's service but only after the employee's return to work from such period of absence.
6?r
1.	Absences due to sickness, accident, or pregnancy where such absence is supported by acceptable medical evidence.
2.	Miscellaneous approved absences such as those due to vacation, jury service, bereavement.
3.	Absence while in the military, naval, or air force of Canada.
4.	Authorized leave of absence up to a maximum period of three (3) months.
(b)	Employees will not be credited with service during the period of absence where they are:
1.	Discharged for cause, laid off, voluntarily leave the service of the Company, or separated from the Company's employ as a result of a reduction inthe working force arising out of the closing of a Department or Unit of the company when it is not expected that the employee will be reemployed, whether or not paid a separation allowance.
2.	Absent due to being on strike.
3.	Absent due to disciplinary action.
65
4.	Absent on the part of an unauthorized leave of absence which is in excess of three (3) months.
(c)	Employees on the payroll during any part of a payroll week shall be credited with one (1) week of credited service for that payroll week.
16.02	Employees will lose all credited service if they:
(a)	are discharged for cause.
(b)	voluntarily leave the service of the Company.
(c)	fail to return to work when recalled from layoff within the time provided in Article 10 - Clause
10.10	(b), or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company.
(d)	have been out of employment by the Company due to a layoff for a period of two (2) years.
(e)	are separated from the Company's employ as a result of a reduction in the working force arising out of the closing of a Department or Unit of the Company when it is not expected that the employee will be re-employed, whether or not paid a separation allowance.
If subsequently re-employed, no credit will be given for prior service.
66
ARTICLE 17 - BEREAVEMENT
Effective date of ratification:
17.01	(a)
1.	The Employer agrees that an employee will receive five (5) consecutive regular work days off at eight (8) hours' pay per day at their regular wage rate, in the event that they have a death in the immediate family as defined in the clause below.
For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be defined as father, step-father, mother, step-mother, spouse, son, step-son, daughter or stepdaughter.
2.	The Employer agrees that an employee will receive three (3) consecutive regular work days cff at eight (8) hours' pay per day at their regular wage rate, in the event that they have a death in the immediate family as defined in the clause below.
For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be defined as follows: father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother, stepbrother, brother-in-law,scn-in-law, sister, step-sister, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law,	grandparents and
grandchild.
67
(b)	Where an employee is absent from work on a regular work day and loses pay to attend a memorial service for any of the aforementioned relatives, he shall be reimbursed at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours lost, up to a maximum of eight (8) regular hours. The Company may require from the employee proof of his attendance at such memorial service before it reimburses him hereunder.
(c)	Theterm "spouse" as used in Article 17.01 (a) above, includes common-law and same-sex partner.
17.02	(a) If an employee is on vacation at the time of death of a relative as outlined in the bereavement clause, then their vacation will immediately cease and bereavement leave will commence. Provisions of the Article shall not apply to employees then receiving benefits such as sickness and accident payments, on an authorized leave of absence, without pay, for any reason or WSIB.
(b) An employee will not be entitled to receive under this Article 17, bereavement pay in respect of a day for which he is receiving holiday pay.
68
17.03	Jury Duty
When a regular employee is absent from work to perform jury service or to testify as a subpoenaed witness, the Company will pay him his regular rate of pay for each hour hewould have worked had he not been on jury duty less any jury fees, but do not include travel expenses, or as a witness less any witness fees received by him for performing such service or giving such evidence.
ARTICLE 18 - BENEFITS
P& H FOODSSUPPLEMENTARYCOMPREHENSIVE
18.01	Medical Plan
(a) The payments of benefits to employees and dependents covered by the Plan will begin when the deductible has been satisfied. Benefits will be eighty-five percent (85%) {Effective January 1, 2003, one hundred percent (100%)) of the eligible expenses incurred by the individual during the calendar year.
Coverage under this plan will cease on the last day of the month following the month in which entitlement to sickness and accident benefits have been exhausted under Article
19.04	and the employee is not back on the active payroll or on the last day of the month following the month in which the employee is laid off.
69
Extended Health Care Lifetime Cap
Effective June 2, 2007 - $40,000
Chiropractor coverage increased to five hundred dollars ($500) effective September 1, 2008, and is not included as part of the lifetime cap.
Massage Therapy - Two hundred dollar ($200) limit per year
HomeopathicCoverage- EffectiveSeptember 1,2008 to a maximum of two hundred dollars ($200)
Clinical Psychiatric - Two hundred dollar ($200) limit per year.
Effective June 1,2009 - increase coverage to five hundred dollar ($500) limit peryear.
(b) An additional benefit will be included to cover expenses incurred for the purchase of prescription eye glasses and frames. This benefit is limited to a maximum to two hundred twenty-five dollars ($225.00) each twenty-four (24) consecutive months for each person covered by the Plan. Effective January 1, 2006, this will increase to three hundred dollars ($300.00). This will alsocoverthe cost of an eye exam. Effective June 2, 2006, this will increase to three hundred and fifty dollars
70
($350.00). Effective June 2, 2007, this will increase to four hundred dollars ($400.00).
(c) Effective the date of ratification, Supplementary Health, Vision and Dental Benefits are available to all permanent fulltime employees, spouses of employees, and their dependent children. New employees become eligible for plan benefits the first of the month following nine (9) months of continuous employment. Benefits are available to an employee's legal or common-law spouse. Please see your Human Resource Manager for details.
"Dependent children" are defined as natural or adopted children or step-children (Dependent children shall also include any employee who has been declared a legal guardian of children} nineteen (19) years of age or under who are dependent upon the employee for financial support (i.e. not working on a permanent basis).
"Dependents" also include children over nineteen (19) years of age who are in full-time attendance at a specialized school, college or university; and physically and/or mentally challenged children of any age who are totally dependent upon the parents for financial support.
71
Newly hired employees must enroll in the Plans as a condition of employment (enrollment is not required of new employees who are already covered by another Dental Plan).
(d)	Effective January 1, 2003, the Company will supply eligible employees a pay direct drug card to purchase prescribed medications. Effective June 2,2007, employees to pay ($4) per prescription.
(e)	Effective September 1, 2008 - When the Companydeemsthat an employee is required to wear safety eye protection, (Maintenance Department Employees, Engineering Department Employees, Sanitation Department Employees and Knife Sharpening Employees) and the only safe option is prescription safety glasses, the Company agrees to provide one pair of prescription safety glasses (frames and lenses only) to that employee. Eligible employees must request the applicable paperwork from the Human Resources Department, before ordering their glasses and have the order filled at the optometrist(s) as designated bythe Company.
18.02	Dental Plan
Effective the date of ratification of this Agreement, the Company agrees to provide a Dental Plan as follows:
72
1.	The following services will be covered:
-	Examinations
-	Consultations
-	Specific Diagnostic Procedures
-- X-Rays
-- Preventative service such as scaling and polishing and fluoride treatments
-- Routine Fillings
-	Extractions
-- Anaesthesia
-- Periodontal Treatments
-	Endodontics Treatments
-- Surgical Services
-	Dentures, denture relining and/or rebasing, repairs, and adjustments
2.	The Plan will reimburse the employee for eighty percent (80%) of allowable expenses (except for charges related to dentures, in which case seventy-five percent (75%) will be reimbursed; effective January 1, 2006 -amend denture coverage to eighty percent (80%) of cost), with allowable expenses as per the Fee Schedule as outlined in 18.02, #6, and with a maximum annual payment of sixteen hundred dollars ($1600.00) and effective January 1,2006, one thousand eight hundred dollars ($1800.00) and effective June 2, 2006, two thousand dollars ($2000.00) to each employee or dependent.

3.	Where claim charges are estimated to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any
employee or dependent, a treatment plan will be submitted to the. Insurance Company before treatment commences.
4.	Eligibility will be the same as for the Supplementary ComprehensiveMedical Plan.
5.	Covered dental expenses do not include and no payment will be made for:
-- Service not included in the above.
-- Services provided under any Government Plans or Workers' Compensation.
-	Services covered under any other Insurance. -- Cosmetic Treatment
-- Charges for broken appointments.
-- Dentures replacing an existing appliance which is less than three (3) years or which can be made serviceable.
-	Dentures within three (3) years from the date that dentures were provided under this Plan.
-- Theft or loss of dentures.
-	Services commenced or dentures ordered prior to the effective date of the Plan.
6.	Effective January 1, 2010 the 2009 ODA
(Ontario Dental Association) Fee Guide will apply.
TA
Effective September 1, 2010 ODA 2009 and effective July 1,2011, the2010 ODA (Ontario Dental Association) Fee Guide will apply.
7. Coverage under this plan will cease on the last day of the month following the month in which entitlement to sickness and accident benefits have been exhausted under Article
19.04	and the employee is not back on the active payroll, or on the last day of the month following the month in which the employee is laid off.
18.03 GROUP LIFE INSURANCE Eligibility
Effective the date of ratification, all hourly employees covered by the contract who have attained nine (9) months of service, Life Insurance coverage becomes effective the first of the month following the month in which he/she have attained nine (9) months of service.
Benefits
Effective January 1,2007 Straight Life Insurance in the amount of $35,000.00 peremployee}.
Effective September 1, 2008, Life Insurance forty thousand dollars ($40,000) AD&D.
Effective after August 11, 2002, for all hourly employees covered by the contract who have attained nine (9) months of service, Life Insurance coverage becomes effective the first of the month following the month in which he/she have attained nine (9) months of service.
Coverage will cease upon:
1.	At the end of the month inwhich termination of employment occurs.
2.	The last day of the month following the month in which the employee was laid off.
3.	When coverage has ceased under item (2), eligible employees will be reinstated for coverage immediately upon their return to work.
4.	In the event that an employee's absence due to sickness or accident exceeds the term for which he/she is entitled to under Article 19.04 "extent of payment", then the Insurance coverage shall remain in effect for the balance of time up to eighteen (18) months in the case of sickness or accident and eighteen (18) months if absent due to Workers' Compensation compensable accident, provided the seniority of the employee is not considered broken under the terms of Article
10.10	a), b) and c).
5.	At the end of the month in which the end of an approved leave of absence, granted in accordance with the terms of Article 15, ifthe employee does not return to work.
6.	Conversion privilege and total disability provisions are available as per the terms of the Policy as purchased by P & H Foods.
7.	All other conditions and terms shall prevail as per the Group Life Insurance Policy.
18.04	Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan
P & H Foods. Hanover
(a)	January 1,2004, eighty cents (800) per hour to the CanadianCommercialWorkers Industry Pension Plan ("Pension Plan") for all hours worked for all full time and part time employees, to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week; effective January 1, 2006, the Employerwillcontribute eighty cents(8O0) per hour to CCWIPP for all hours paid for all full time and part time employees to a maximum of forty hours per week; effective June 2, 2006, eighty five cents (850) per hour; effective June 2, 2007, ninety cnts (900) per hour; effective September 1, 2008, the Employerwillcontribute ninety five cents (950) per hourto CCWIPP, effective June 1,2009, one dollar ($1) per hour.
77
(b)	The Employer agrees to sign a "Participation Agreement" and supply any other information required by the Trustees of the Pension Plan. The Employer shall forward all contributions together with a list of full-time and part-time employees and the number of hours worked for each employee in each reporting period, within fifteen (15) days following the end of each of the Employer's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period.
(c)	Stabilization Fund - The Employer will contribute effective June 1, 2010 to the Stabilization Fund for all hours worked -forty cents (400) per hourto the P&H Union Local 175 Stabilization Fund for all hours worked.
18.05	Exceptas provided in Article 18.03, the Company will continue paying the premiums of employees who are on layoff not to exceed sixty (60) days for the following benefits:
-- Supplementary Comprehensive Medical Plan
18.06	The Ontario Employer Health Tax:	The
Company will continue its present practice of paying one hundred percent (100%) of the premium established by the Ontario Employer PlealthTax.	^
)(?
18.07	The Employer agrees to provide benefits as described in the Manulife Follow Me Premiere
78
benefit information for all employees who have attained 20 years of service or more and are between the ages of 55 and 64 years of age. These benefits are available to employees and their dependants as described in Article 18.01 and will be available until the employee reaches 65 years of age or 60 days from the first of the month following the death ofthe employee. To be eligible for this benefit, employees must retire between January 1, 2011 and April 30, 2011 and January 1, 2012 and April 30,2012.
18.08	Effective January 1, 2006 the Employer will provide an "Employee Assistance Program". A letter describing this benefit will be sent to the home of each employee of P & H Foods in January, 2006.
Benefit books will be distributed to all members ofthe P & H Foods Local 175 by no later than November 1, 2008.
ARTICLE 19 - SICKNESSAND ACCIDENT
19.01	Effective the date of ratification, the Company agrees to pay the full premium cost of this Sickness and Accident Plan to all eligible employees. Benefits to which an employee may be entitled are determined by his service and status at the onset of the disability. Permanent full-time employees become eligible for plan
benefits commencing the first of the month following the month in which he/she have attained nine (9) months of service.
19.02	In case any sickness or non-cornpensatable accident benefit payments, lesser in amount or duration than those payable under this Article are provided for by Provincial or Federal laws, it is understood that the difference only, if any, between such Provincial or Federal required payments and the amount the employee is entitled to under this sickness or non-compensatable accident payment plan will be payable. If such Provincial or Federal required payments are greater than those payable under this Article, no payments shall be made under this Article.
19.03	(a) All employees who are absent for a period
of four (4) or more scheduled work days shall be required to submit acceptable medical evidence to the Company in order to substantiate a claim for sickness and accident benefits, as required by the Sickness and Accident Claim Form attached as Exhibit "A, or as required by the Insurance Company.
(b) However, employees who have an unsatisfactory attendance record shall be required to submit acceptable medical evidence for each and every absence. Acceptable medical evidence shall include
BU
a letter or other document signed by the employee's physician which indicates the reason for the absence, the nature of the illness, the date of treatment and the estimated date of recovery.
(c) Employee shall maintain ongoing and regular communication,minimum once per month and provide medical evidence to the Employer as required by the Employer or as required by the Insurance Company.
19.04	For the purpose of this Sub-Article 19.04, credited service is as defined in Sub-Article 10.03 (c) of the Agreement. When employees are absent from work because of a disability or a non-compensable accident, and when such absences are supported by acceptable medical evidence as per Exhibit "A, or as required by the Insurance Company, payments shall be made in accordance with the following terms and conditions:
(a)	Payments shall not be made when employees are absent from work because of disability due to sickness or injury caused by or as a result of the employee's own act or misconduct. AH absences shall be considered as starting with the loss of the first day on which the employee was scheduled to work.
(b)	Effective the date of ratification:
Schedule Service Required
While being credited with service within the meaning of Article 16 and after nine (9) months or more of credited service at the time of the onset of the absence, all of which service must have been performed subsequent to the employee's most recent (if any):
1.	Discharge for cause unless such discharge is reversed through the grievance procedure or arbitration.
2.	Quit.
3.	Layoff in excess of one hundred and eighty (180) days.
4.	Failure to return to work for the Company within the times limited by Clause 10.10 (b) hereofwhen recalled.
(c)	Waiting Period
If eligible, payment will begin on the employee's first scheduled working day cf Hospitalization or outpatient surgery, and the employee's fourth scheduled working day for sickness or accident. Days on which the employee was not scheduled
82
to work will not be counted as any part of the waiting period.
(d) Amount of Payment
The amount of payment shall be as follows:
Consecutive Weeks of	Percentage
Compensatable Disability	of wages
First FourWeeks	65%
Fifth and SubsequentWeeks	70%
On the basis of the applicable percentage (%) of the employee's average straight time weekly earnings in the four (4) full calendar weeks immediately preceding the disability or the applicable percentage {%) cf thirty-eight (38) hours, whichever is greater.
The definition of average weekly earnings will be calculated on the basis of the preceding four (4) calendar weeks worked. Weeks worked is defined as any week that is not a shutdown or a vacation week.
In cases involving absences of less than a full week, the daily payment shall be one-fifth (1/5) of the above weekly benefit.
B-J i
i
(e)	Extent of Payment Effective the date of ratification:
For an employee having nine (9) or more months but less than eight (8) years of credited service, benefits will be payable for up to fifteen (15) weeks, reduced by the number of weeks, including any partial weeks, for which benefits were paid in the previous nine (9) calendar months.
For an employee having greater than eight (8) years of credited service, benefits will be payable for up to two (2) weeks for each year of credited service, reduced by the number of weeks, including any partial weeks, for which benefits were paid in the previous nine (9) calendar months.
(f)	In cases of disability due to pregnancy or pregnancy related illness, payments and the extent thereof will be on the same basis as aforesaid, except that payments shall not be made during or in respect of any period.
1.	As per the Employment Standards Act with respect to Pregnancy and Parental Leave.
2.	For which maternity benefits are paid to her under Section 30 of the Unemployment Insurance Act.
84
19.05	If, during a period when an employee is absent due to sickness or accident and is receiving benefit payments underArticle 19, this Collective Agreement provides for a wage rate increase, such sickness and accident benefit payments shall be adjusted accordingly.
19.06	The Company shall have the right at all times to unilaterally amend any of the provisions of this Article 19 in order to remain qualified for the Unemployment Insurance premium reduction, provided the amended provision does not result in a reduction in benefits to an employee.
ARTICLE 20 - DISCIPLINARYWARNINGS
20.01	Where an employee receives a written disciplinary warning and receives no further written discipline for a period of twelve (12) months, or fourteen (14) months for disciplinable offences that are considered harassment, violence or substance abuse related from the date of the warning, or the warning is withdrawn by grievance and arbitration procedure, such warning shall be removed from the employee's record and shall not be used in any subsequent disciplinary action or arbitration proceedings.
ARTICLE 21 - EDUCATION AND TRAINING FUND
21.01	Effective January 1s', 2009 and January 1st, 2010, the Company will contribute eight
w
thousand dollars ($8000.00) percalendaryearto the U.F.C.W. Education and Training Fund.
21.02	Effective June 2,2005, the Companywill pay one half ('A) of the cost for the printing of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 22 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
22.01 This Agreement shall take effect June 2nd, 2010, and shall remain in full force and effect upto and including the 1st day of June, 2012, and from year to year thereafter, unless written notice of intention to terminate or amend is given by registered post by either party to the other at Hanover, at least ninety (90) days prior to its expiration.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE PARTIES HERETO BY THEIR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES THIS 27th DAY OF August. 2010,
UFCW CANADA, LOCAL 175 P & H FOODS
Sheila Weppler	Gary Martin
RonZipple	Craig Shaw
Ray Dempsey	Tracey Brzoska
Doug MacKinnon Bruce Dosman Angus Locke
86
SCHEDULE"A"
PRODUCTION CLASSIFICATION AND WAGES A.01
June 2 June 2
JOB CLASSIFICATION 2010	2011
Production Rate Turkey Deboner Cutting Tails
Cut Vents & Bar Cuttings
Knife & Scissor Sharpener
Slit Neck
Grader
Draw E viscera
Operate Cry-0-Vac Machines
Cut Off Feet
Remove Necks
Pull Crops
Vacuum Gun Operator Trusser
Freezer Employee
Fork Lift Truck Operator
Receiver
Sticker/Killer
Live Hangers
Sanitation/Clean-up
Skin/Cut Gizzards
Dy Storage
Basting
Coat Room
18.24
18.34
18.34
18.34
18.34
18.34
18.45
18.34
18.40
18.40
18.40 18.50
18.40
18.40
18.40
18.40
18.40
18.45 18.63
18.34
18.34
18.40
18.40
18.40
18.24
18.34
18.34
18.34
18.34
18.34
18.45
18.34
18.40
18.40
18.40 18.50
18.40
18.40
18.40
18.40
18.40
18.45 18.63
18.34
18.34
18.40
18.40
18.40
Signing Bonus
A signing bonus will be paid to all active employees on June 2, 2011, in the amount of one hundred ($100.00) dollars. Signing bonus payments shall be issued to each employee in the bargaining unit on pay advice slips that are separate and apart from their normal earnings.
88
B.01
SCHEDULE"B"
MAINTENANCE AND ENGINEERING CLASSIFICATIONAND WAGES
June 2 Dec 1 June 1 Dec 1
JOBCLASSIFICATIQN 2010 2010	2011	2011
Engineer-4th Class 21.58 22,23
- 3rd Class 22.71 22.96 23.21 23.46 - 2nd Class 22.99 23.24 23.49 23.74
Industrial Mechanic
(Millwright)	22.70 22.95 23.20 23.45
Apprentice Industrial Mechanic (Millwright) 20.73 21,35
Apprentice Industrial Mechanic (Millwright)
(After 60 days'service) 21.12 21,75
Apprentice Industrial Mechanic (Millwright)
(After 120 days' service)21.56 22.21
Greaser/Oiler	19.33 19.91
Building Service
Person	19.33 19.91
** Apprentice Engineer - rate(s) to be established if classification becomes implemented.
SCHEDULE"C" INSPECTION
CLASSIFICATIONAND WAGES
C.01	June2	June2
JOB CLASSIFICATION	?nm	9011
Quality Assurance	18.70	19.26
MPIP Inspection	18.70	19.26
Reconditioning Inspection	18.29	18.84
Reprocessing Inspection	18.29	18.84
A.02 1) Employees Hired Temporary or Part-time During Period of September 1st to April 30th-to be paid 90% of the starting rate
June2 June2 -2010 -2011-
Starting Rate 17.36	17.88
Hire rate for probationary employees to be 90% of the start rate.
Regular employees will receive 95% of the start rate after successfully completing the four (4) months' probationary period.
Regular employees will receive 100% of their job classification rate after twelve (12) months of seniority.

A.02 2) Employees Hired Temporary or Part-time During Period of May 1st to August 30th of a Year
Employee Hired Rate - 75% of the starting rate as outlined above in A.02 1)
A.03 LEAD HAND
The Company has the right to appoint Lead Hands and to remove them. The Lead Hand may work the hours required by the Company in the absence of the Department Supervisor.
Effective June 2, 2008, Production Lead Hands will be paid an established Lead Hand rate of seventy cents (700) per hour on the highest production rate.
EffectiveJune2,2008, MaintenanceLead Hands will be paid an established Lead Hand rate of seventy cents (700) per hour on the highest maintenance rate.
Please Note: any Lead Hands currently receiving more than the above Lead Hand premium shall be "grandfathered" for the term of this Collective Agreement
The hours associated with the set up and take down of a shift shall be awarded on the basis of department seniority. All personnel who are
SI
awarded pre shift positions, set up and take down positions shall be required to work the complete regular work day unless otherwise directed by the company. The Lead Hand may also work the same hoursasthe setupandtake down person, provided he does not displace that person.
If a senior employee is offered but refuses the set up and take down hours, that person has waived any right to preference by seniority for a period of one (1) year, and the employee who is given the hours cannot be bumped by a more senior employee for a period of one (1) year.
If the person who is successful in the posting for the set up and take down hours wishes to give it up it will be reposted as per the Collective Agreement.
A.04 KNIFE PREMIUM
Employees required to use a knife/gizzard skinner to perform their duties shall be paid a premiumoften cents(1O0) perhour. Employees in the Further Processing Department or employees usingtheGizzard/Skinner equipment orperformingthe Gizzard Skinnerjob will receive a premiumoften cents(100) perhour.
92
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGS
BETWEEN: P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO - and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
fie: AvailabletoWork/Reduced HoursandOvertime
I ist
The Company agrees to continue the practice of allowing employees who sign the Available to Work/Reduced Hours and Overtime List to indicate their preference for a particular Department. To the extent they can be accommodated, they will be assigned according to PlantSeniority providingthey are qualified to perform the work required.
If there still remains an insufficient number of employees to work the overtime, the remainder of those employees on the List will be assigned to where they are needed at the sole and complete discretion of the Company. Furthermore, ifthe efficient operation of the Plant is adversely affected, then this practice will be discontinued and Article 10.05 will prevail.
93
DATED AT HANOVER, THIS 27th DAY OF Auqust, 2010.
UFCW CANADA, LOCAL 175	P & H FOODS
Sheila Weppler RonZipple Ray Dempsey Doug MacKinnon Bruce Dosman Angus Locke
Gary Martin Craig Shaw Tracey Brzoska
94
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#2
BETWEEN: P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
Re: Second Shift
Employees shall be known as either a first shift or a second shift employee (excluding Sanitation and Maintenance), and shall not have any right to work any of the hours of the other shift. Employees on either shift will remain on that shift unless they apply for and receive a posting for the other shift, or ifthey are laid off from either shift and exercise a bump.
However, employees may be selected by seniority to work on the other shift from the reduced hours and daily overtime lists as posted on each shift.
Ifthere still is an insufficient number of employees, then the Company shall have the right to assign employees on a reverse plant seniority basis, providing the employee is qualified to perform the work required.
----------------------------------------- sa
A reduction of all or part of the shift will be as follows:
1)	By department seniority the mostjunior employees will be removed, providing the remaining employees are qualified to perform the work required.
2)	Those removed may exercise their department seniority to bump the most junior employee within the same department on the first shift, providing they are qualified to perform the work required.
3)	Failing being able to bump into the same department on the first shift, employees may exercise their plant seniority to bump the most junior employee in the plant, providing they are qualified to perform the work required.
4)	As per Article 10.07, separate seniority lists will be maintained between the Further Processing and Specialty Departments, andthe other departments.
5)	During a period of reduced hours Letter of Understanding #2 will prevail.
The second shift employees will receive additional compensation of sixty cents (600) per hour for each hour so worked.
The hours of the first shift will be scheduled to start approximately between the hours of5:45 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. andthe hours of the second shift will be scheduled to start approximately between the hours of 2:45 p.m.
and 6:00 p.m. There will be a period on the second shift.
DATED AT HANOVER, THIS 2010.
UFCW CANADA, LOCAL 175
Sheila Weppler RonZipple Ray Dempsey Doug MacKinnon Bruce Dosman Angus Locke
96
one-half ('A) hour lunch 27th DAY OF August.
P & H FOODS
Gary Martin Craig Shaw Tracey Brzoska
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3 BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
Re: Maintenance or Engineering Contracting Out
The Company prefers to have the Maintenance or Engineering work done by its own Maintenance or Engineering employees, although, at times, it is necessary to have work done by outside contractors. The relevant factors which the company will consider before contracting out the work will be as follows:
Availability ofthe required skills, duration and frequency of the job, urgency of the job, cost and availability of equipment.
DATED AT HANOVER, THIS 27th DAY OF August.
2010,
UFCW CANADA, LOCAL 175 P & H FOODS
Sheila Weppler	Gary Martin
RonZipple	Craig Shaw
Ray Dempsey	Tracey Brzoska
Doug MacKinnon Bruce Dosman Angus Locke

LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGS
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
Re: Apprenticeship Program for Maintenance and Engineering
The Company agrees to meet with the Union to establish the terms and conditions of an Apprenticeship Program within one month of the date of ratification.
DATED AT HANOVER, THIS 27” DAY OF August, 2010.
UFCW CANADA, LOCAL 175 P & H FOODS
Sheila Weppler	Gary Martin
RonZipple	Craig Shaw
Ray Dempsey	Tracey Brzoska
Doug MacKinnon Bruce Dosman Angus Locke
^33
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#5
BETWEEN: P& H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
Re: Pay Equity
The parties have discussed their obligations under the Pay Equity Act and agree to maintain the Pay Equity Plan in accordance with legislative requirements.
DATED AT HANOVER, THIS 27th DAY OF August. 2010.
UFCW CANADA, LOCAL 175 P & H FOODS
Sheila Weppler	Gary Martin
Ron Zipple	Craig Shaw
Ray Dempsey	Tracey Brzoska
Doug MacKinnon Bruce Dosman Angus Locke
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#6
100
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
Re: UFCW Charity Fund
The Employer shall deduct from the weekly earnings of each employee, upon written authorization from each employee, twenty five cents ($.25) perweek and shall, together with a detailed list cf names, Social Insurance Numbers and amount deducted, remit same by cheques payable to the UFCW Charity Fund before the fifteenth (15") day of the following month.
Receipt for the total amount deducted per employee in the calendar year will be provided by the Union on or before February 28th of each year, or noted by the Employer on the employee's T4 slip.
TUI
DATED AT HANOVER, THIS 27th DAY OF Aunnst.
20m
UFCW CANADA, LOCAL 175 P & H FOODS
Sheila Weppler RonZipple Ray Dempsey Doug MacKinnon Bruce Dosman Angus Locke
Gary Martin Craig Shaw Tracey Brzoska
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#?
102
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
Re: 10 HourShifts
After the date of ratification the company to meet with the union negotiating committeeto reviewthefeasibility to have the Hanover plant operate 10 hour shifts in order to minimize transportation and day care cost. The intent would be:
. Regular payforthe 10 hour shifts • Paid breaksto remainthe same insidethe 10 hour shift
. Statutory vacation and bereavement to be based on 10 hour shifts
. Shift allowance will need to be reviewed . Company has to determine feasibility from a logistics / business point of view . Proposal to be taken to the membership for a vote
103
DATED AT HANOVER, THIS 27" DAY OF August, 2010.
UFCW CANADA, LOCAL 175 P & H FOODS
Sheila Weppler RonZipple Ray Dempsey Doug MacKinnon Bruce Dosman Angus Locke
Gary Martin Craig Shaw Tracey Brzoska
104
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#8
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
Re: Unpaid Lunch
Unpaid one (1) hour lunch period for the first shift and investigate the opportunity to replace with an unpaid thirty (30) minute lunch period for the first shift.
The Company and the Union will meet to determine on a department by department basis (department as defined in Article 10.05(a)) whether there is mutual agreement to proposeto the department employees to move from a unpaid one (1) hour lunch period for the first shift to an unpaid thirty (30) minute lunch period for the first shift. If mutually agreed upon the Union will conducta vote on Companytime to determine if65% or more of the department employees favour such a change to their unpaid lunch period.
-LUS
DATED AT HANOVER, THIS 27" DAY OF August. 2010.
UFCW CANADA, LOCAL 175 P & H FOODS
Sheila Weppler RonZipple Ray Dempsey Doug MacKinnon Bruce Dosman Angus Locke
Gary Martin Craig Shaw Tracey Brzoska
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#9
106
BETWEEN:	P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and -
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
Re: Contracting Out
The Company agrees that they shall not contract out any bargaining unit work, with the exception of plant production (production, sanitation and freezer / dock) work where adequate labour cannot be hired or Maintenance/ Engineering employees do not have the skills or equipment to do the work, or the work cannot be completed in a timely manner. Proof of not being able to hire must be provided to the Local Union Service Representative.
DATED AT HANOVER, THIS 27” DAY OF August,
201a
UFCW CANADA, LOCAL 175 P & H FOODS
Sheila Weppler	Gary Martin
RonZipple	Craig Shaw
Ray Dempsey	Tracey Brzoska
Doug MacKinnon Bruce Dosman Angus Locke
107
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#^
BETWEEN: P & H FOODS, HANOVER, ONTARIO
- and-
Re: Arbitration - NEW
Notwithstanding Section 49 of the Ontario Labour Relations Act or any language contained in the Collective Agreement between the parties to the
108
The parties can at anytime by mutual agreement add or remove an arbitrator from the agreed list.
DATED AT HANOVER, THIS 27" DAY OF August. 2010.
UFCW CANADA, LOCAL 175	P & H FOODS
Sheila Weppler RonZipple Ray Dempsey Doug MacKinnon Bruce Dosman Angus Locke
Gary Martin Craig Shaw Tracey Brzoska
109
EXHIBIT “ A
ACCEPTABLE MEDICAL EVIDENCE FORM P & H FOODS
EMPLOYEE’S NAME	DEPARTMENT
JOB	FIRST DAY OF
CLASSIFICATION	ABSENCE
INSTRUCTIONS TO EMPLOYEE
EMPLOYEE'S	DATE
SIGNATURE	
110
TO THE ATTENDING PHYSICIAN: P&H Foods, in its capacity as an Employer, is committed to early and effective rehabilitation and return to work of our employees. We are a self-insured Employer and the information requested on this form will be used in a confidential manner to determine fitness for work and determine eligibility for sick pay benefits.
PHYSICIAN’S STATEMENT
General nature of illness or injury (a general statement of a person's illness or injury excluding diagnosis)
History
When did the patient see you for this condition Previous similar condition: DYes oNo □ Unknown Date(s):	Details:
Treatment
Is it likely that	the employee will be	referred to a
specialist?	DYes	□	No
Hospitalization	DYes	□	No
Date: Surgery	□ Performed	□	Planned	Date:
Ill
I
Therapy DYes □ No Type
(e.g. physiotherapy)___________
Frequency__________________
Recommended Treatment Plan?
Date of Next Medical Assessment:
Prognosis	i
Based on my medical assessment, the patient has j been totally disabled from working and carrying out '
essential duties of his/her position from:_______
________________ to _____________________________
Estimated Date of Return to work:
Date:	PHYSICIAN'S	PRINT NAME AND	PHONE
	SIGNATURE:	ADDRESS/STAMP	NUMBER:
			FAX
			NUMBER:
Thank you for your time and cooperation in having this form completed. Please return this completed form directlyto Occupational Health &Safety Departmentas soon as possible: fax 519-364-6258
BENEFITS DEPARTMENT
Orsola Auqurusa
Benefits Representative
Georgina Broeckel
Benefits Representative
Sherree Backus Joanne Ford
Benefits	Benefits
Representative	Representative
Victoria Shen
Benefits
Representative
COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Emily Groom Meemee Seto Jennifer Tunney
Communications	Servicing Sr, Communications
Representative Representative Representative
BENEFIT & COMMUNICATION DEPARTMENTS
2200 Argentia Road - Mississauga, ON - L5N 2K7 Phone: 905-821-8329 Toll Free: 1-800-565-8329 Fax: 905-821-7144
www.ufcwl75.com
LEGAL DEPARTMENT
Fernando Reis
Legal Co-ordinator
Marcia Barry
Legal Counsel
Michael Hancock
Legal Counsel
Natalie Wiley
Legal Counsel
Rebecca Woodrow
Legal Counsel
LEGAL DEPARTMENT
2200 Argentia Road - Mississauga, ON - L5N 2K7 Phone: 905-821-8329 Toll Free: 1-800-565-8329 Fax: 905-821-7144
www.ufcwl75.com
ORGANIZING DEPARTMENT
Rick Wauhkonen
Organizing
Coordinator
Mike Mattioli
Organizing
Apprentice
Tony Nigro
Organizing
Apprentice
Mario Tardeiii	Amy Tran
Organizing Representative Organizing Representative
HEALTH & SAFETY DEPARTMENT
Janice Klenot
Senior Health & Safety Representative REGIONAL OFFICE
2200 Argentia Road - Mississauga, ON - L5N 2K7 Phone: 905-821-8329 Toll Free: 1-800-565-8329 Fax: 905-821-7144
www.ufcwl75.com
TRAINING & EDUCATION CENTRE
Kelly Nicholas	Laurie Duncan
Co-ordinator	Education Staff
Training & Education
Ashleigh Garner	Jason Hanley
Education Staff	Education Staff
TRAINING & EDUCATION CENTRE
2200 Argentia Road - Mississauga, ON - L5N 2K7 Phone: 905-821-8329 Toll Free: 1-800-565-8329 Fax: 905-821-7144
www.ufcwl75.com
CENTRAL EAST REGION
KellyTosato	Jehan Ahamed
Director	Union
Central East	Representative
Mona Bailev
Union
Representative
John DiFalco
Union
Representative
Anthony DiMaio
Union
Representative
John DiNardo
Union
Representative
Linval Dixon Emmanuelle Lopez Angela Mattioli
Union	Union	Union
Representative	Representative	Representative
Dave White
Union
Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
2200 Argentia Road - Mississauga, ON - L5N 2K7 Phone: 905-821-8329 Toll Free: 1-800-565-8329 Fax: 905-821-7144
www.ufcwl75.com
CENTRAL WEST REGION
Luc Lacelle
Director Central West
Sam Gaetano
Union
Representative
Matt Davenport
Union
Representative
Tim Deelstra
Union
Representative
Rick Hogue
Union
Representative
:
Joe DeMelo
Union
Representative
Chris Watson
Servicing
Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
412 Rennie Street - Hamilton, ON - L8H 3P5 Phone: 905-545-8354 Toll Free: 1-800-567-2125 Fax: 905-545-8355
www.ufcwl75.com
EASTERN REGION
Union
Representative
Dan Lacroix
Director Eastern Region
Chris Fuller
Union
Representative
Paul Hardwick
Union
Representative
Marilyn Lang Daniel Mercier Jacques Niquet
Union	Union	Servicing
Representative	Representative	Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
20 Hamilton Ave. North - Ottawa, ON - K1Y 1B6 Phone: 613-725-2154 Toll Free: 1-800-267-5295 Fax: 613-725-2328
www.ufcwl75.com
NORTH WEST REGION
Dan Lacroix
Director
North West Region
Colby Flank
Union
Representative
Dean McLaren
Union
Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE RM 21 - Lakehead Labour Centre 929 Fort William Rd - Thunder Bay, ON - P7B 3A6 Phone: 807-346-4227 Toll Free: 1-800-465-6932 Fax: 807-346-4055
www.ufcwl75.com
SOUTH CENTRAL REGION
'•,ci f • l
Sylvia G
Director South Central
Judith Burch
Union
Representative
Haggith
Virginia
Servicing
Representative
Lee Johnson-Koehn
Servicing
Representative
Casey Magee
Servicing
Representative
Stockton
Mark
Servicing
Representative
Brenda Simmons
Servicing
Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
2200 Argentia Road - Mississauga, ON - L5N 2K7 Phone: 905-821-8329 Toll Free: 1-800-565-8329 Fax: 905-821-7144
www.ufcwl75.com
SOUTH WEST REGION
PaulJokhu
Director South West
Kevin Dowling
Union
Representative
Wendy Absolom
Union
Representative
Julie Johnston
Union
Representative
Angus Locke
Union
Representative
Rob Nicholas
Union
Representative
Roy Reed
Union
Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
124 Sydney Street South - Kitchener, ON - N2G 3V2 Phone: 519-744-5231 Toll Free: 1-800-265-6345 Fax: 519-744-8357
www.ufcwl75.com