	m . . .. ; iQU*CE	c		jO- i
	Iff.			aoii
	UR*.	31		it 51!
AGREEMENT	Np. Of EMfiOYHS		<eS	
•AYR PUNT*	-ftOMUl D-..MPL			
MTWtlN
J. M. SCHNEIDER INC.
AND'
THE SCHNEIDER EMPLOYEES' ASSOCIATION
KITCHENER • ONTARIO
JANUARY 1, 1989 • DECEMBER 31, 1991
002S2£>3
TABLE QF-BMTES1S
Page See. No.
ARTICLE 1 • PURPOSE ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
ARTICLE 3 . ASSOCIATION SECURITY ...........
Madbership ...............................
Payment of Dues...........................
Contracting Out ..........................
Foraasn Meriting..........................
Officers and Stauards of the Association .
ARTICLE 4 • NAMAGENENT RIGHTS ...............
ARTICLE 5 • DISCRIMINATION ..................
ARTICLE 6 • GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE -------
Grievance Coaalttee.........<**'*»»
Substitution of Naabert . . . -------
Initiation Tint of Grievance..............
Tlao Lialts ..............................
Grievance Steps 1-4.......................
Cospany Grievance ........................
Association Grievance .... ...............
Request for Arbitration ..................
ARTICLE 7 . ARBITRATION ....................
Arbitrable Matters .......................
Appointment of Arbitrators ...............
Decision of the Board ....................
Power of the Board .......................
Expenses of Arbitration ..................
Tine Limits...............................
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
6.1
6.2
6.3
6.4
6.5
6.6
6.7
6.8
7.1
7.2
7.3
7.4
7.5
7.6
TABLE Of CONTESTS
Sac.
ARTICLE $ * DISCIPLINE, SUSPENSION OR t.MH. DiiefpliM, Suapanaion or Diacharfla for Just
Cmm*........................ |.11
S.E.A. Notification	B.2
Unjust Suapanaion 11 Discharga	8.3
ARTICLE 9 - RATES Of PAY . . .
Was* Rataa......................... 9.1
Tmo (2) Job Rataa............................9.2
Rataa on Taaparary Tranafar .................9.3
Rataa o n Ptraanant Tranafar................... 9.4
Rataa - Chanaia in Method of	Production . .	9.S
Probationary Rataa ......................... 9.6
S.E.A. Notification......................... 9.7
Work Niaiur—nt and Job Standard* ....	9.S
Job standard* Dispute*...................... 9.9
Rataa of Pay • Now Produeta	.......9.10
ARTICLE 10 • HOURS Of WORK. CNERTINE. AND PREMIUMS
Ragular Work Hook.......................... 10.1
Changaa to Waokly Sebadula ................ 10.2
Chans** to Daily start Tint.................10.3
Daily Ovartina..............................JD.4
Unscheduled Saturday........................10.5
Unachadulad Sunday........................  10.6
Schadulad Saturday and/or Sunday............10.7
Work Parfonaad on Statutory	Holidays . . . 10.8
Off-Shift Praaiua.......................... 10.9
No Accunulation of P rani urns.............10.10
Exclusions.................................10.11
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Sec. No.
ARTICLE 11 • GUARANTEES AND CALL-INS ....	22
NiniauaWeek.................................. 11.1
Statutory Holiday in NiniMI Hack............. 11.2
Exclusions to Miniau* Weak................... 11.3
Reporting Minimus ■ Normal Shift............. 11.4
Reporting Minims * 6th or 7th Shift or
Statutory Holidays......................... 11-5
Call-In ......................................11.6
Coepansatole Accident.........................11.7
ARTICLE 12 • REST PERIODS AND MEALS ........ 25
Straight Eight Hour Shifts .................. 12.1
Sixth, Seventh or Statutory Holiday Shift
and emergency Call-hacks....................12.2
Dut-of-Toun Heals.............................12.3
Uashreca Breaks .	 12.4
ARTICLE 13 .STATUTORY HOLIDAYS ............. 26
Designated Statutory Holidays ............... 13.1
Part-Time Workers............................ 13.2
Qualifications for Pay ...................... 13.3
Praniuaa for Statutory Holiday Worked ...	13.4
Statutory Holiday in Vacation............. 13.S
Exclusions .................................. 13.6
ARTICLE 14 * BEREAVEWENT.................... 30
ARTICLE 15 • JURY DUTY...................... 31
T<ILE OF COMTEMTS
Sec. Me.
ARTICLE 16 • SENIORITY ...	*1
Probationary Period ....	16.1
Seniority on Transfer . . .	16.2
Job El let natlon/Ccafcination Sloping
Procedures................................. 16.3
Exclusions...............................I...	16.4
ttudmts or Psrt-Tiae Transferred to
Full-Tlas.................................. 16.5
S.E.A. Stwrda............................... 16.6
Abaanca Sue to Accidant or illness . . . . 16.7
Oiecherse, Tonal nation or Lay-Off.........	16.8
Leave ef Aboonce	16.9
Provision for Trainees.......................16.10
ARTICLE 17 . LAY-OFFS AMO RECALLS
Order ef layoffs..............
Order of Recall ..............
S.E.A. Notification ..........
Sanefits on Lay-Off ..........
Plant Cleelns .............
Exclusions ...................
17.1
17.2
17.3
17.4
17.5
17.6
ARTICLE 18 • PROGRESSION ................... 43
Job Progression............................. 18.1
Job Vacancies............................... 18.2
Exclusions ................................. 18.3
ARTICLE 19 . TRANSFERS....................... 44
Teaporary Transfers......................... 19.1
Peraanent Transfer ......................... 19.2
Application for Transfer ................... 19.3
table OF contents
Page
sec. No.
ARTICLE 20 . VACATIONS ..................... 47
Vacation Year............................. 20.1
length of Service........................... 20.2
Vacation Schedule........................... 20.3
Coaptation of Required Service ............. 20.4
ASnnei vacation ............................ 20.5
Vacation Pay ............................... 20.6
Choice of Vacation ......................... 20.7
Statutory Holiday in Vacation Meek ....	20.8
no Aceuailatfon............................. 20.9
ARTICLE 21 - RETIREMENT .................... 51
Renal Rotfroaant............................ 21.1
Optional Early Retiroaant................... 21.2
Canada Peneion Plan ........................ 21.3
Coapony Ponaion Plan........................ 21.4
Exclusion* .	21.5
ARTICLE 22 • SAFETT, HEALTH AND SANITATION .	S3
ARTICLE 23 * WELFARE PUNS .................. 54
Elftibflity................................. 23.1
Health Insurance ........................... 23.2
Life Insurance ............................. 23.3
Weekly Indemnity ........................... 23.4
Incoae Continuance ......................... 23.5
Dental Care. ............................... 23.6
U.l.C. ProaiiM Reduction ................... 23.7
•IMLEJBLSBilBilS
N»»
Sac. No.
ARTICLE 24 • CLOWNS MB PERSONAL	EQUIPMENT	SB
Hcm Enployaaa................................».1
Baplif—it and Additional Clothing .... 24.2
Tranaforrod EMployaaa.......................24.3
laundartng...........................i... 24.4
Naintonanco Nachanle'a Tool* ....... 24.5
ARTICLE 25 - BULLETIN HARO ......	S9
ARTICLE 26 • BMEEBNE1T REFLATIONS.................... 59
ARTICLE 27 • CONNENCENENT MB DURATION OF AGREEMENT 99
EfFactiva Dataa ............................27.1
No Strllw or Lockout........................27.2
ATTENDIX 1A«, "B“ ................................... 62
MAINTENANCE RATES.................................... 64
LETTER OF INBERSTMBIN6 #1	^ ,« „	65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING «2........................... 66
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING S3........................... 67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4........................... 70
LETTER OF INTENT *1.................................. 71
THIS AGREEMENT
ENTERED INTO AS OF THE 2STN OAT OF JANUARY 1069 MADE 6V AND RETUEEN:
J. M. SCNNEIOER INC., AYR PUNT,
hereinafter referred to es "The Conpany"
end
SCNNEIOER MRL0YEES' ASSOCIATION,
hereinafter referred to es "The Association"
ARTICLE 1 • MOROSE
It 1e the purpose of this Aoreaesm to Maintain and prcaote harnonieus relations between the Coapany and the Association and the aaployees who are represented by the Association end to provide the negotiated teres end conditions of apltpint of ouch aoployeee. Soth parties agree that their Mutual interest lies in friendly cooperation to prooote the out us l interest and welfare of both the Copany and such aaployees.
1
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
The Company racognizM the Association!, aklch it certified by the Labour Relations board of Ontario, aa the aala end exclusive bargaining agant far ail aapleyaos et Ayr, taw and axcapt forum, paraena above the rank of forwan. Office Staff and taloa ttaff. (lab of the aaacuiina gandar in this Agraasant shall baf eonafdarad alao to include the fasinine.
Where the tarn Aaaociation la used. it ahalf aaan the Executive off ieara of the Aaaociation.
ARTICLE 3 • ASaOCIATIOg SECURITY
All mu oapleyaas cava rad by thia agraaannt ahalt be raguirad, on or before the first work day of actual aapioyawnt, to bacaM a awaber of the Aaaociation end sign a duaa daduetlon authorisation fora.
Caaual aaailayaoa ara not antitlad to tha of Articloa 6 to 24 Inclusive except
(f) Articloa 13.1, 13.3 and
provisions
(a)	Article 6.7
(b)	Article 9.1 (e) Artielaa 10.4 to
10.11 ineluaiva
Cd) Article 11.7 <e) Article 12.1, 12.2
(g)	Article 17.1
(h)	Article 20.6 (M (i> Article 22
(i)	Article 22
13.4
Casual aaployaaa are to be used for aawrgancy,
seasonal or taaporary aaployaant on a day ta day basis for
the hours required.
- 2 -
The Coapany shall not hire casual eaployees for thepurposa of • liainating
or reducing overtiae opportunities that would heve been available for full-tiaeoaployees.
Casual eaployees will not be used where it is practical to aaploy full-tin eaployees except where it is
agreed with the Executive Officers.
Uhere the work perforaad by part-tiae or casual
eaployees can be satisfactorily COabined to perait the aaployatnt of a full tiae saployee, this will be done.
(5.2)	beyeant of Ouas
The Coapany agrees that it shall deduct froa the pay of each eaployee the dues of the Association as deterainedby it free tiae to time, in accordance with the constitution of the Association. Such deductions froa pay shall be realtted every week by the Coapany to the Treasurer of the Association in the week following such deduction.
(3.3)	Contracting Out
The Coapany prefers to hew the work done by its eaployees, although, et tiaes, it is necessary to have work done by outside contractors. The relevant factors which the Coapany will consider before contracting Out the work will be es follows:
Availability of the required skills, duration and frequency of the job, urgency of the job, cost end • vailabilttyofequipment.
• 3 •
Any job that the Company feels aay be^contracted out will be discussed with the Association before o decision is Mde. The Coapeny ogroos that it will dial fairly and honestly with any dsclafon to contract out. In aaoreoncy situotionsadiacussion wilt? be bald with the steward in advance, if poaaible. .	:
The word "prefers" as used in thts article, weans the Coapany's first choice is to utilize its own aaployees.
The Colony agrees to uti lize the presont "outside contractors foraP unless agreed by the Cowpany and the Association t o change the fora. Where the work is of 8 . repetitive nature, io: project werfc, weak-and Mintononce etc., an initial font will be provided.
Any changes in installations or truck routes presently covered by bargaining unit o^ilwyooo will be discussed in advance with the Association.
(3.4)	Forewsn Working
Foraasn shall not do any bargaining unit work excopt for training or in cases of owtrgancy. For sown shall not perform any overtiwe work noraally done by a bargaining-unit wsnber unless there is no bargaining-unit neater available or qualified to do the job.
- 4 -
(3.5)	Officers and Stewards of the Association
The Company rocognixas that Stewards of the Association en required, fron tine to tin, to investigate and process grievances or diacuas with siperviston other natters affecting aaployees. When it becoaws necessary for a Steward to leave his/her job to attend to these natters, they wi U give supervision es nueh advance notice as possible, et which tine, supervision wil 1 nakc • rranganents for the Steward to be relieved within one hour after receiving such request.
The Association shall exerc ise its rights in a fair and jut earner.
article a • mmangsT risnts
The nanagansnt of the plant and the direction of the noticing force are vested exclusively with the Coapany. The Coop any retains the sole right to hire, discipline, discharge for Jut cause, layoff, assign duties, pronote and transferanploynas, and to determine the starting end quitting tine and the ranter of hours to be tied; to detamine the product to be bandied, produced or nanufaeturad; the schedules of production end the nethods, processes and naans of production or handling object only to the restrictions and regulations governing the exercise of these rights as are expressly provided in this contract.
ManspUBOnt shall exercise its rights in S fair end just nanner.
- 5 -
ARTICLE S - DISCRIMINATION
,
The Coapany and Association aero* thatthere Mill be no intiaidation, discriainetion, interference , restraint, or coercion exorcised or prectlsed fay either Of thee or fay any of their representatives or Mahers became Of an aaployee's Moborship in the Association or beam of his activity or lack of activity in the Asaoeistion.
ARTICLE A - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
(6.1) Grievance Coaeittse
The Association shall establish s srisvancc coaarittee of not less than throe or aore than five and the Ceapony shall be Rapt Inforaod of the personnel of such ceaaittee.
(6.2) ftbstitution o f Mabsrs
In the event of the sbssnes of any oaabors of Msnaiawnt or the Association, substitution aoy bo asdt by aabon of equal rank on either side.
(6.5)	ini tiatlon Tim of Grievance
A Grievance will not ba considered by the Coapany or the Association unless Grievance procedure is initiated w ith in seven (7) full uorkino days of the event on Which
the Grievance is baaed.
(6.6)	TiM Limits
TiM liaits iapoeed in this article shall apply squally to the Coapany end the Association, hut My be extended by autual agreeasnt. Working days, es referred
to in this article, shall not include Saturdays, Sundays,
or Statutory Holidays.
6 *
(6.5) Grievance Steps 1-4
Should any differences arise es to the interpretation, application or non-application of the provisions of this Agra—lent, an a amest effort will be aede to settle the sane in the following Banner:
FIRST * There will be a discussion between the aggrieved eaployee, with the dapartaantal steward, and the Forman of the department involved. This • tap of the procedure to be processed and a decision rendered by supervision Mi thin two full working days.
SECOND - If the natter has not been settled, the grievance Bust be presented in writing to the Fnrawn and signed by the aggrieved e^>loyae, or	At this
• tags of tiie grievance procedure the enployae, the departaantal steward, the Foreaan, Manager of Eaployee Relations, and the Plant Manager will deal with the grievance. This step of the procedure to be processed within two full working days and a decision rendered within mother two full working days.
THIRD - If the grievance is still not settled, it shall be directed to the Operations Manager or his delegate who shell convene a westing coaprising the aggrieved eaployee,
the depertaental steward, the Association President or aaaber of the Grievance Committee, the National Eaployee Relations Manager, the Manager and the Foreman concerned. This step of the procedure to be processed within five full working days end a decision rendered within another five full working days.
FOURTH - If a sattlawsnt is still not raachsd,<?ths griavanca shall be prasanttd within thraa full working days of tha decision utdar stop Thraa, to the Oiractor Personnel and Pifclic Halations (or his delegate in his abaanca) tdio shall convene a mating involving the Diraetor of Nanufaeturing. This stop of the procedure be preeasaad and a dacisian rendered within five full working days.	|;f/' ’
of
to
(6.6)	Company grievance	*	*
The Cowpany has the right to prasant a griavanca against tha Association, its officers, its ambers in the bargaining wilt or other roprassntativaa far failura ta cowply with tha tarns af this Aprs—nt. Any griavanca by tha Cnwpany ahall ha In writing ta tha iacratary af tha Aaaaciation and shall ha dsalt with by tha griavanca Coaarittee of tha Aaaaciation and ahall be antarad et the third atop of tha griavanca procadura.
(6.7)	Aaaaciation griavanca
Tha Association has the right to present a griavanca against tha Company far allagad violations of this Agraomnt, prsvidsd that aueh griavanca could net be filad wider tha tanas of this Aprs—nt by an individual oaployaa of providsd that the intarast of the Association, or the interest of a ■sjority of the naabars of a dapartswnt, or the nsjori ty of the swears of s group of dspartmnts in an a raa, is effected. Any griavanca prasantad by the Association shall be in writing to the Director of Manufacturing end antarad et the third step of ‘ the griavanca procadura.
. 8 -
(6.8) Request for Arbitration
If an «iicable settlaaant is net arrived et through the foregoing procedure, the setter in dispute •hell be referred to arbitration. The request for arbitration oust be Mde within five full working days of the coaptation of the fourth • tage of grievance referred to in this article.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
(7.1)	Arbitrable Natters
Both parties to this Agreement agree that any diapute or grievance concerning the interpretation, application, or allagod violation Of this Agreeaent, which has boon properly carried through the appropriate atops of the grievance procedure outlined in Article 6, and which has not boon settled, or any dispute as to whether a natter is arbitrable, will be referred to a hoard of Arbitration at the written request of either of the parties hereto.
(7.2)	Appointaent of Arbitrator
The Board of Arbitration wi ll be roapnaari of one person appointed by the Coapony, one person appointed by the Association, and a third person to act as chainaan chosen by the other two BMbers of the hoard. Each party will notify the other, in writing, of the naan of its appointee within five working days of the request by either party for a Board.
. 9 .
Should tho porson chosanby the Coapony and tho porton chooon by tho Association *afl to agree on • third poroon within tan days of the notification Mentioned above, the Nlnlator of Labour of |tha Province of Ontario, will ba asked to noainate a parson to act aa chalraan.
Tho Asaoclatlon and the Ceapan*,phall have the r Iflht to rofor any • rbltrablo aetter to o afnilo arbitrator. The soloetlon of the sinpto arbitrator shall be tho subject of Mutual agraoaant of tho parties. In the event Of 8 failure to agree upon a single arbitrator, the arbitrable Matter shall than ba referred to 8 three aaaber board as provided above.
(7.S)	Decision of the Board
The decision of 8 Board Of Arbitration, or 8 Majority thereof, conetituted in the above banner, shall ba binding an both parties and ipon any eaployee concerned in, or affected by, the decision.
(7.4)	Pouer of the Board
The Board of Arbitration shall not have any pouer to alter or change any Of the provisions Of this Agraoaant or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terasand provisions of this Agreeaant.
(7.5)	Expenses Of Arbitration
Each of the parties to this agrieaent will bear the a xpenses of the noainee appointed by it to the Arbitration Board, and the parti as will jointly bear the
expense, if my, of the chaineen. In the case of the appointaent of • single arbitrator, the parties will jointly been' the expense, if my.
10 •
(7.6)	Tiae Limits
Tiae Halts fapossd in thfs article shall apply squally to tht Colony and the Association, but nay be extended, by autual agreeaent, and shall exclude Saturdays, Sundays, and Statutory Holidays.
ARTICLE ft - DISCIPLINE, SUSPENSION DR DISCHARGE
(8.1)	Discipline, Suspension Or Discharge For Just Cause
The Coapany reserves the right to discipline, suspend or discharge for jut cause any eqployee without notice for cause, including having or eonsuiing intoxicants or unauthorized drugs on coapany property; theft, disorderly, faaoral or indecent conduct; continued ■Usance or irregular attendance; habitual lateness; loitering during uorking hours; sacking in prohibited areee; fnstfeordination or refusal to do uork assigned; wilful or deliberate violation of safety practices or plant rules; of for my offence that, uhile not specifically listed, 1s considered to be detriasntal to the uelfare of this Coapany and its aaployees.
No discipline, suspension or discharge ui 11 be processed wiless there is a dapartasntal steward or an Officer of the Association in attendance, uhere possible, to represent the eaployee.
(8.2)	S.E.A. Notification
the Association secretary shall be notified iaaadiately, in writing, of all suspensions and discharges.
- 11 ■
(8.3)	Unjust Suspension or Discharge
Any eaployse uho fools ho has boon unjustly disciplined, suspended or discharged shall hovo tho right to appeal through tha grievance procoduro. grievances dealing with diacfplfne other than aiapanslon or discharge ahall bo procassad (n accordsnca ulth Article 6.3 coaasneing at the first atop. In tha coas of grievances dealing ulth suspension or discharge, tha oaployse gust notify tha grievance Coaalttee within tuo (2) full uorking days after auaponaion or discharge and the grievance Coiarfttee aust present the natter In writing to the Operations Wansgsr or his delegate, within two (2) full working days after receiving notification frow tha SMpondsd or discharged swplnyss and the sane ahall be entered at the third atop of the grievance procedure. A probationary oaployee's appeal shell be Ihsitod to tha fourth stop of tha grievance procedure. If upon review by Nanegaasnt, it ia found that an aaplwyeo baa been unfairly suspended or discharged, ha shall be awarded idiatovor discipline la appropriate, or. If clrouMtaneoa warrant, ho ahall be reinstated and ranapsnsart for leas of aamings rooulting froa aueh laifair or imjust suspension or dlacharga.
ffapl nysas discharged or euspinthd any not regain In tho plant after their discharge or suspension. Tha only tias they nay return Is to attend a grievance hearing under this clause.
- 12
(8.4) Disciplinary Notification
Tha Coapany will rafcove rafarancas to disciplinary action froa the saployee's racord as follows: Writ tan Warning aftar a twenty*four (24) aonth period; rapriaand or suspension aftar 8 thirty-six (36) Month period provided however, there has baan no further disciplinary action taltsn against the saployee during the applicable period referred to above.
Exceptions to the above include repriaands or auapanaiona for the following serious offenses;illegal strike, slow-down, work stoppage, insubordination or fighting.
ARTICLE 9 - MTU Of PAT (P.1) Mu* Rates
Effective January 1, 1989, the rates of pay will be in accordance with Appendix ”A" and Appendix "8" and will increase according to the two rate Appendices.
Full-tins employees covered under Appendix "A" who are laid-off and recalled or who transfer within the Poultry dMortaant, will not be paid at a rate lower than that applicable under the Appendix "A" schedule.
(9.2)	Two (2) Job Rates
When an saployee regularly performs two (2) or
more jobs, he will receive the higher rate for eight (8) hours if the higher rated job exceeds two (2) hours.
- 13
(9.3)	Rates an Tawporary Transfer
Pay ratae of qualified awplnyoeo on temporary transfer to higher rate jobs shall be adjusted to the higher rate coaanneing the first full shift an the higher rated Jab.
Eaployeoe taaporarlly transferred to. loner rated Jobs at their request wi ll assuat the rate Of such job eoaawncing the start Of the pay weekf ol lowing such transfer.	>
(9.4)	Ratos on Penaanant Transfer >	'
any eaployee panoanintly transferred to another job will be paid his existing rata or the rate of the job to idiioh ha haa transferred (whichever is the leaser). Uhsn quelif id, or within three aonths, his rata shall be adjusted to the prevailing job rate. On jobs requiring 8 htggi degree of skill. It eay be wutually agreed between the Coapany and the association, that 8 longer period is Justified.
Qualified as ueed above shall auan the ability to regularly parforu the job without instruction or assistance.
* 14
(9.5)	Rates * Changes in Method of Production
Where changes in Method of production or new Jobs are Introduced, the Company will determ ine the new rates of pay and classification • fterffee taffhasgained experience on the new method or Job. This review will be completed within aix (6) working weeks of the egrsunt to conduct said review. Mew rates of poy established will be effective the date an acceptable degree of proficiency is attained by the worker. I f 8 lower rate of pay has been established, the employee shall retain his rate of poy mtil the next contractual wage increase (or until he transfers to mother job) at which tine the adjustment will be aada.
If 8 new or changed rate of pay is in dispute, a qualified Mistrial Engineer, who isSMaber of the Association, shall review the process by which the rate of pay was eat in accordance with the established procedure agreed to by both parties for deterainine rates of pay.
Mould the rate of poy for a new or changed job remain in dispute after ell relevant factors used in the deterai nation of the rate Of pay have been examined, it may be introduced as e grievance entered at the third step o f the grovanee procedure.
(9.6)	Probationary Rates
Maw employees shall be hired et 5% below the base rate. They wi 11 be BOVed to their Job rate St the end of thirteen (13) weeks or When qualified, whichever canes first.
- 15
(9.7)	S.E.A. Notification	^
Subject to the provlsioneotherwiseapecified in this Agreenent, the Conpony agrees that tha officers of the Association be provided tilth inf oration regarding tha pay rata and pragraas of any individual employee.
Where tha rnapony has aatabliahad a nan rata of pay and job classification under Article 9.5, and tha rata of pay 1a in dispute, tha Association's Industrial Engineer Mill be granted access to tha Caapany studies (including job descriptions Mhere they exist) pertaining to tha revieu.
(9.8)	Hark Moasurrant and Job Standards
Tha following procedures trill apply during all uorfc studies parfarwd by Company and Association ropraaontatlvaa.
a)	Only qualified full tine aaployeas tilth appropriate skills and ability trill be studied for tha purpose of establishing psranont work standards. Whenever possible, this Mill be an eaployeeis) Mho narally parfara tha Mark.
b)	A reasonable raabar of cycles and a najorfty of the total Mill bo taken during 8 uork study in order to ensure that all elonents Of the job(s) are included and to iaprove statistical accuracy.
c)	Start and stop tines Mill be recorded • ljj\ with tha nans Of the individual studied.
d)	All strike-outs on a tine study oust have a recorded reason.
* 16 •
(9.9) Job Standards Disputes
it Is understood that the Company wi 11 sake every effort to establish fair and accurate work standards and that employees and the Association will give ovary work standard a fair and Jut trial by working conscientiously against those standards.
If after the fair and just trial period, the Association is still not satisfied that an average qualified worker, working conscientiously can weintain a performance of 10QX, a n-chock study wi 11 be smde by the Cowpany when requested.
If the standard is atill in dispute after the Company audit, 8 qualified swaber of the Association may conduct 8 study using established Company work amesuroamnt teehniquas.
Mould the new jab rate remain in dispute after • comparison of the Colony and the Association studies, it may be introduced as a grievance start f ng at the second atop of the grievance procedure.
Itis further agreed that where the new job rote remains in dispute et the fourth step Of the grievance procedure, the Company and the Association may, by mutual agreement, appoint a qualified independent industrial engineer to conduct • separate study. The expense of such study shall be shared by the Company and the Association.
• 17 *
(9.10) Rates of Pay - Now Products
Tho Company will comiderthe Introduction of non non-poultry products provided tho rotas of pay , ostOblfshod ora competitive and permit the Company be profitable.
Mian tho Colony ia considertnp the introduction of such nsu products that trill roault in the creation of now jobs, tho rates of pay will ha established througi negotiations between the parties, and this rate shall not be loos than $8.00 per hour. If tho parties ere unable to agree mpon tho rate of pay, tho Isoue may bo attained to an arbitrator who will have tho authority to deterarfne tho now Jobs' rata of pay.	< 7
Caployoos transferring to theoe now jobs wider the provisions of Articles 18.2 or 19.2, will ho paid in accordance with the provisions of Article 19.2.
ARTICLE 10 - HOURS Of WORK, OVERTIME, AMD PREMIUMS
(10.1)	Regular Work Week .
(a)	Full-Time Employ—a
Tho regular work weak shall consist of five consecutive shifts, eight hours per day, A0 hours par week froai Monday to Saturday inclusive except for part-tine employees.	.
(b)	Pert-Tine Eaployees
Part-tiae employees are employed five hours per day, 25 hows per week or loss.
(10.2)	Changes to Weekly Schedule
Ho indi viduel eaployee's weekly schedule any be changed without at least twenty-four hours' prior notice from the start tine of his existing shift or, in the case of a group, seven (7) calendar days .
- 18
In the event it bacoasr necessary to change an individual employee's weekly schedule without at least twanty-four hours' prior notice froa the start tiae of his existing shift, tiae and one-half will be paid for any work perforaad in the f irst shift of the new schedule.
In the event it bscsass necessary to change the weekly schedule of a grot*) without seven (7) calendar days' notice, tiae and one-half wi 11 be paid for my work perforaad within the balance of the seven (7) days on the new schedule. Previsions of this article shall apply to full-tine aaployees only*
Ike above shall not apply for the purpose of providing the waokly guarantee in the event Of 8 lay-off.
(10.S) Changes to Doily start Tiae
Employees required to report later than their regular start flat without 24 hours' notice for an individual or savin calendar days for 8groig>, wi 11 he paid one and one-half tiaas their regular rate for hours worked beyond the regular quitting tiae.
Caployeas required to report earlier than their regular start tiae without 24 hours1 notice for an individual or seven calender days for a group, wi 11 be paid one and one-half tiees their regular rate for hours worked prior to the regular start time. Provisions of this article shall apply to full-time aaployees only.
The above shall not apply for the purpose of providing the weekly guarantee in the event of a lay-off.
- 19 -
(10.4)	tally Ovartint
On* and on*-h*lf tints tta hourly rat* Mill be paid for all hour* in OKcaas of sitfit hour* par ahfft, sacopt thaaa hour* in aneaaa o f 12 par rapalar shift uill be paid at tuo tines th* rapular hourly rata. Vacation hour* uill not ha craditad to hours uorfcsdfn calculating drily OMOrtint.	.	*'*
An anplnya* Mho voiimtaars to nark svsrtlnt prior to hia rafular shift Milt ha paid th* oaartin* rat* for thoaa hours uorfcad op to his ropuiar start tins and nust Mark his rapilar shift thoraaftar.
(10.5)	Unsriiaduiad Saturday
j	One and ana-half tlan tha hourly rata Mill ha
; paid for tha first *1*ht hour* paid on an aaisehadulsd I Saturday. Tns tins* tha rapulir hourly rut* Mill ha paid !	for hours In aneaaa sf sight. If durlnp tha Mask
j	praoadins tha Saturday tha asplnyaa has boon charpad Mith
|	an inancusad abaonea, ha shall raeaisa hie papular rata to
f	a auiaa of aipbt hours and tint and ana-half thoraaftar.
I	.	-	- ..	^
1	(10.1) unarhadiilad Sunday
IMa tint* tha raipitar hourly rata shall ha paid far Mark parfamad on an unachadulad Sunday. If during tha Mask praoadins tha Swhy tha oaployaa has boon charpsd uith an intacutad abaanca, ha shall rseoiuo on* and ona-half tints tha rapular rata to a naxiaa of sight hours and tuo tins* tha ragular rata thoraaftar.
- 20 -
(10.7)	Scheduled Saturday and/or Sunday
Enployees whose regular work achadula Includes a Saturday or Sunday, wi U be paid one end one-half tines their regular fete for hours on a shift which begins on a Saturday or Sunday to 8 nexinun of eight (8) hours. Two tines the regular hourly rate shell be paid for hours in excessU$Sight. This pranim shall not apply to hours after 8 ickiight on Friday, which are part of the Friday ahift.
(10.8)	Work Performed on Statutory Holiday
Two tines the regular hourly rate shall be paid x^ED • 11 work perfcrnadonadesignetsd Statutory Holiday.
(10.9)	Off-Shift Pieniua
An off-shift prenius Of 35 cents per hour shall be paid to ahift workers whose regular work schedule starts betwsannoonand O fdhight. Enployees working on shifts beginning after 12 nidnight and before 8:00 a.n. shal l receive the off-shift prenius for all hours worked up to 6:00 a.n. This prenius shall apply to workers who are receiving overtine pay for averting worked.
(10.10)	no Accusulation of Preniuns
There shall be no accunulating of overtine prentias for the sane hours worked, end/or paid for, but the highest overt in* preniun shall apply.
(10.11)	Exclusions
Provisions of section (10.2) and (10.3) of this article shall not apply to part-tine or student enployees.
21 -
ARTICLE 11 - OUAKANTEES MD CALL-IKS
(11.1)	Hinlaa Week
Hourly rotod full-tiae aaployees tdio or* scheduled to uork Hid Who or* ot uorfc oro guaranteed « pay oquol to 37 hours ot their regular hourly roto. Should tho lock of uork bo attributable to clraaatancas over uhleh the Ccapany haa no control, excluding aschanical breakdown, this guarantee util be reduced by the nwber o f hours loot.
Caeh hour of ewartiae uortced during tho ainiaua usok ui ll be erodltad aa ana hour against thia guarantee, to a aaxtaua of flue houra. bay received far hours uorked on the sixth and seventh shifts trill not ha included in this guarantee. To qualify, aaployees mmt be available and willing to accept such work aa aaybe provided for than.
If the aaployee fails to aval 1 hfaself Of the regular houra of work provided, the guaranteed a inlaus week shall ha reduced by the difference between actual hours worked and the hours Of work node available.
Any aaployee recalled to work fron lay-off will not be a liglble for the guarantee for the weak of rocal l.
(11.2)	Statutory Holiday in Hiniaai Meek
Statutory Holidays paid for during any week where the ainiauaguarentee is • ffective shall be considered es part of and included in the pay for the a iniaue week. Any hours worked on 8 Statutory holiday shall be counted against this ainfaw week. Statutory Hoiidays felling on the 6th or 7th shifts will not be included as pert of the ainiaue guaranteed week.
22
(11.3)	Exclusions to Minin* Week
Provisions of its** (11.1) and (11.2) shall not apply to port-tiw, student or probationary epployees.
(11.4)	Koporting Minin* * Mora*l Shift
Any eqployeewho reports for his norwl shift and is sont how bofors four consacutivt hours' work have been completed ahall be paid 8 Minin* of four hours' pay at his regular rate. To qualify, the eaployee Must be available and wi lling to accept such work as wy be provided, providing that such work is Made available during norwl working hours. Should the lock of work be attributable to circuntances over which the Ccppeny has no control, excluding Mechanical breakdown, this guarantee is waived and the eaployee will be paid only for the tiw worked. Proviaions Of this paragraph ahal l not apply to atudsnt epployees.
(11.5)	Reporting Miniaus * 6th or 7th Shift or Statutory Mol {days
Epployees who are scheduled and work on their sixth shift, seventh shift, or Statutory Holiday will be guaranteed 8 ainiaus pay Of six hours at their regular rate. Proviaions of this paragraph ahall not apply to part-tins of atudsnt e^loyees.
- 23
(11 .6) Call-In
Any saployee Mho 1s reqUMte#W\ return to work after coapleting his regular dal lyshif t and the uork period fa four (4) hours Of lass, ft shall be paid at the appropriate overtias rate uith 8 sfniaa equivalent of four hours' pay at the regular rate. If the hours uorfcad exceed four (4), it Mill than be considered as 8 second shift uorfcad in that day and paid according to Article
(10.3). The suplnyea shall be through Nhan the Job for tdilch he has boon called bock is coapleted of at the caunrwnt of Ms regularly scheduled shift, Mhichover occurs tint. &ployses will be allcusd to coaplete their regular echodule for the balance of that usok. Hours Marked on the sixth shift of that Mask Mill be Included for the purpose of the guaranteed ainiaue Mask.
Provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to pert-tiat or student agpioyeae.
(11.7)	Coapensablo Accident
employees tdio are injured and lose pay as a result Of 8 coapsnasble accldait during 8 shift. Mill receive an smut equal to their regular rate for the regularly scheduled shift to 8 aaxiaa Of eitfit hours. Hanover, if the wpleyee has started into overtias, or i f the overtias scheduled at the shift end Is noraally and regularly Morked by the saployoe, an aaoutt equal to the scheduled overtias shall be paid to the injured eaployee.
This is applicable to the 6th and 7th shifts and Statutory Holidays provided the aaployce has actually coaaenced work on such shifts.
- 24 -
ARTICLE 12 - REST PERI COS AND NEALS
(12.1)	Straight Eight Hour Shifts
Eaployees Mho soil working • straight eight hour shift basis, other than those oho sat their aeal on the job, shall receive a paid ten ainute rest period and a paid teenty ainute lunch period in each shift, if the work period is five hours or leas, the oaployee shall only qualify for the rest period or lunch period, Mhichever normally coats first, but not both.
Eaployees shall qualify for an additional ten minute rest period if scheduled to uork owertiae in excess of two hours and a thirty minute paid aaal brook plus • aeal • Houma of $4.00 if scheduled to uork overtiae in excess of two hours. The paid thirty ainute break wi 11 not be emitted as tfae worked in calculating whan an oaployee qualifies for any additional rest periods or aeal Qlloanees. When the owertiae work period exceeds two and one-half hours after the first aeal • llowance.the employee shall qualify for a tan minute rest period and If the owertiae work oxraadi five hours, a second aeal all- will be provided, • long with a paid thirty 0 i nuts aval break.
(12.2)	s ixth, Seventh or statutory Mol idsy Shift and Eeergency Call-backs
Eqtloyees wi ll qualify for a ten ainute rest period When working wre than two and me-ha If hours in any port shift or when working more than two end one-haIf hours following • paid aeal break.
- 25 -
Employ— Who work aore than five hours on their sixth or seventh shift. Statutory holiday or a—rssnry call-back ulU bs provided Mlth a thirty alnuto paid aaal brook plus 8 aaal alleuanca of 14.00. Euployaas Mill qualify for 8 sseond thirty alnuto aaal hraak and aaal allouanea fin hours aftor tho first paid aaal brook. Tha paid thirty alnuto aaal brsak will not ba eountad as tlao uorkad in ealeulatlns idion an oaployss qualifies for any additional root parioda or aaal allomnees.
(12.3)	Out-of-Toun Noals
Faplnye— required to uork out of tom will ba •llouad to 04.00 par aaal. Thsy Mill ba paid time in Mhich to sat tha aaal If thsy aa qualify uda aoction
(12.1)	or (12.2) a# this artlela.
(12.4)	Maahrooa Sradks
Tha tiapany ahall a Uom a aaxiaua of tuo (2) six (6) ainuta laahrona braaks par parson par shift.
ARTICLE IS - STATUTORY ML ISAYS
(13.1)	Sasifnatod Statutory Holidays Uployeas Mill ba paid thoir regular hourly rata for regular hours nut uorkad, Monday to Saturday inclusive, al Kau Year's Say, Rood Friday, Victoria Say, Soainion Say, Civic Holiday, Labour Say, Thanksgiving Day, Christaas Day and tuo floating days.
All Statutory Holidays falling on a Saturday or Sunday shall ba observed on tha preceding Friday or the follouing Monday, unless changed by nut us l agreeaent.
- 26 -
In the event provincial or foderal govemaent legislation roquiras the observance of an additional p^>lie holiday during the tens of this Agraeoent, that day
shall bacoaa • paid holiday.
Designated Statutory Holidays
Monday January 2 1969 Tuesday January 3 1969 Friday March 24 1969 Monday Nay 22 1969 Monday July 3 1969 Monday August 7 1969 Monday September 4 1969 Monday October 9 1969 Monday Doceaber 25 1969 Tuesday December 26 1969
New Year's Day Floater Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Nol iday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christaas Day Fleeter Individual
Monday January 1 1990 Tuesday January 2 1990 Friday April 13 1990 Monday Nay 21 1990 Monday July 2 1990 Monday August 6 1990 Monday tsptsaber 3 1990 Monday October 8 1990 Monday Deceaber 24 1990 Tuesday Deceaber 25 1990 Monday Deceaber 31 1990
New Year's Day
Floater
Good Fr iday Victoria Day Doainion Day civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksg iv ing D ay Floater Christaas Day Floater Individual
27 •
Tuesday	January	1	19»U:v
Friday		*- mren	29	1991
nonamy	Nay	20	1991 i 'm’i.
—	a	 WORMy	July	1	1991 tC'^l
wonwy	August	5	1991 s $
**	0	 monmy		2	1991 :|f;j
S*	- MnOBjf	October	7	1991
• s—a	—- wmWWmQmy	Deeoaber	25	1991 s ::
Thursday	Daeobar	26	1991 : &'■£
Friday	Dirsdhsr	27	1991 s ^ >
New Veer's Day
Good Friday
Civic Holiday . Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christaas Day
Individual
Tha Company baa tha option of granting the elevsnth holiday (floater) at an individual holiday to ba taken at a tias ayaad qjon between tha alloys and aanoganMit. Tha Coapany ahall adviea tha Aoaociation if it will aaarelao this option by Nay lot of each year.
Should tha plant ba required by law to ebeerve any holiday other than thooa listed in this article ObOVi, such holiday ahall replace tha individual floating holiday.
For those Mho additional obsen
aay have taken the individual day, ones shall ba without pay that year
(13.2)	Fart-Tiaa Workers
Statutory Holiday pay for part-tine oaployeas
shall be five hours per day St their regular rate. Bq>loyees who regularly work aore, or less, than five hours daily shall be paid for the hours they would have worked, had such • day not bean observed as 8 holiday.
- 28 -
(13.3)	Qualifications for Pay
In order to Quali fy for Statutory Holiday pay, the gyloyes ait work the required regular shift immediately preceding and following the Statutory Holiday.However, the employee will qualify far Statutory Holiday pay if he has ban excused fro* working the required regular shift by his Forsemn, or has bean laid off, providing he has received peyant for hours worked during the week containing the holiday or during the preceding week if the holiday falls on Monday.
An employee Mho is absent on e i ther the regular shiftianedlately preceding or following the paid holiday due to personal Illness which is verified by 8 Doctor's certificate, will be paid for the Statutory Holiday.
If the employes Is * ligible for any peyant to idtich the Company contributes either directly or indirectly for the day on Which the Statutory Holiday is observed during the first fifteen (IS) weeks of the absence, the Company will supplement this peyant to bring his earnings to 8 level equal to 8 regular day's wage.
(13.4)	Preaiuaa for Statutory Holiday Worked
Two tiaws the regular hourly rate shall be paid for all work performed on 8 designated Statutory Hoi iday.
(13.5)	Statutory Holiday in Vacation
Full-tine and port-time ayloyees whose vacations include any of the Statutory Holidays mentioned in this article shall receive an additional regular day's pay, or ana Iterate day off. Such day Off to be taken St 8 tine convenient to the aaployee and management.
. 29 .
To qualify for the additional day Statutory Holiday pay in 8 vacation nook that hoc boon arrongad in advance, the awployee nuat uorkhia requi rad regular shift, preceding and fallowing the Statutory Holiday, except If aba ant duo to f llnaoo confined by 8 Doctor's eartffieata.
(13.0)	Excluai ana
Ttea provisions o f this article shall apply only to hourly rated oaptoysao tdM wore on payroll prior to the date an which the holiday occurs.
mtioc 1« • wBmmmn	-
Where an wpleyes is abaont and laaaa pay bee buss
of a funaral for a sister, brother, iaaband, wife, son, eon-in* law, dnqftter, dau0itor-in-law, nothor or atspsnthar, father or stepfather, father-in-law,
■other-in-law, ha ahall ha raiohuraad at hla regular rata for regular hours lost on up to throe regular work days ending with tha day following the funaral.
Bsployaao who experience a boroovanant during a booked vacation will be allowed to defer that part of their vacation affected by baroevo—nt. Deferred vacation day(o) w! tl bo taken ot 8 tine ■utuelly agreed tpon by the eaployea and hie supervisor.
If tha eaployea is absent and loses pay because of 8 funaral for 8 brother-in-law, sister-in-law,
• tepbrother, atopaistar, grandparent orgrandehi Id, he shall be reimbursed at his regular rata for regular hours loot on ip to one regular day. grandparents to naan grandparent of oaployae or spouse.
30 -
Where an eaployee it abttnt and lotas pay to •tttnd8 manorial aarvict for any of the aforaaantioned relatives* he shall be relrtursed at his regular rate for regular hours lost to one regular day.
Provisions of this article shal l not apply to part-tiae or probationary aaployaes.
ARTICLE 15 • JURY DUTY
arWoyM mmotmi to appear or required to serve Jury Duty or uho is siftpoanaad as 8 crown witness shall be paid for his regular hours at his regular rate. twployoss shall be required to furnish 8 notice Of selection far Jury Duty, or king sitynsnaert as a croun witness as aeon as possible, for aaployaes working 3:00 * 11:00 or 11:00- 7x00* the tiae off should be on the shift following Jury Duty.
Uhon on o^loyae works ofter his regular hours on a day In diich he served Jury Duty or appeared as a subpoenaed witness* those hours will be calculated as overt las.
Provisions of this article shall not apply to part-tine* student or probationary eaployees.
ARTICLE 16 - KNIORITY
(16.1)	Probationary Per iod
From the tiae of hiring, new eaployees shall be considered probationers and shall possess no seniority
SSltil they have SCCMUlated thirteen (13) weeks'time worked.
- 31 -
Upon raplltifln Of the probationary period, the seniority date shall be the awployant date. A probationary anployoe shall have roeourso to the full grievance procedure rslatim to natters other than suspension or dtsdur—. Probationary anployees Who fool they hove bom wijuatly suspended or discharged shall hava the right to appeal aa stated in Article (6.3).
(16.2)	Seniority an Transfer I
6ny anpteyee cowered by this aeraanent who ia appointed to 8 position outside of the bargaining unit Will continue to accusilato seniority. In the event of 8 transfer back to the baraainina tail t, the aaployee wi ll return to tbs plant at tiiich be uaa hired ulth full credit for arwdatad seniority.
Any fult'tlao aaployaa tdie 1a paraanantly tranaforrad uithin the baraainina unit will carry seniority provisions with bln.
(16.3)	Jab IllarinatianfCaablnatlan haplnp Procedures
The follawlna la the procedure apreed to, between the rnapany and tbs S.E.A., for an aaployee effected by 8 pennant jab el ini net I an or Jab coafcination. The Individual affected nay exorcise his/her seniority rights, to buap downward, to junior seniority positions. The only purpose of the bispine procedure ia for job security.
Job Com {notion Procedure
If two (2) jobs or nore are coabined, the anployee(a) with the least seniority will be bwpod. The busped es»loyee(s) will proceed through the buying proceduretrderjobo liainotion.
- 32 -
Job Elimination
The Company will advise the Association Of my job eliminations or job coabinations and give in writing details Of such changes St least twenty (20) working days in advance.
•taping Procedure
1)	The m^loyee must fill any job vacancy in his department that has not been f i lied under Article IS. if the Job vacancy is on a different shift, the employee my displace the mat juiior employee an Ms shift. If he is unable to perform the vacant job or the job of the most juiior employee, ho may displace the second least senior a^loyee an his shift and so on uitil he roaches a job he can perform consistent with his seniority rights.
2)	Once all job vacancies are filled, any additional displaced employees may choose to replace a temporary jab in theft deportment on their shift, before bumping a jutior employee. Any employees electing this option, must continue on temporary Job assignment until all temporary assignments are completed on their shift. The employees must then exercise their seniority rights to obtain job ownership.
3)	The junior employee bumped off his shift will have the option of buiping the junior employee on any remaining shifts, if he is unable to perform this job, he can move up the seniority list as described in item #1.
33 -
A)
The junior oaployaa tampedoutof -Ms dqmrtaent can apply for 8 job vacancy undtr ;Arti cla 19.3 if • ligtble, or ha will boniaced inany job vacancy in the plant. Article 19.3 takaa precedents over oaployaa placement. If there fa no vacancy, tha oaployaa will have tha choice of replacing any taaporary work aaaipaant in tha plane or displacing tha aait junior, oaployaa in tha plant providing he haa plant seniority. if ha ia unable to perfore the mat junior job, tha e^loyoe uf 11 aova tp the aaniority liatiaa dsecribod in #1.
5)	Whan 8 maker of ■ployoaa arodiaplocod due to jobk liafnation(tha corroaponding maker of laaat aanior joba in the dpiirtasnt and/or plant, tdilchaver to applicable, vill be Identified and tha aoat aanior of tha diaplaced oaployaaa can chooaa tha Jab ha aanta. In tha event that tuo or acre of the earn Job claaai fleet tone are idantiflad within thie group of laaat aanior joba. tha junior an In the job claeelfication wi ll be tha flret to be diaplaced. Thie proeaaa will continue In order o f aaniority ifitil all oaployaaa are aaalgnad job ownerahip. If one of tha diaplaced oaployaaa ia unable to perform tha job to Which his aaniority entitles him, ha aay aova ip tha seniority list until ha roaches 8 job ha can parfora consistent with his own seniority rights.
6)	If the aaployoe is unable to buap in accordance
with the above Steps, he/she will be laid off.
34 -
7)	An aaployee whose Job was eliminated wi U have null rights to his departaent and/or Jab if that job la reinstated as fol low: twelve (12) Months if the aapleyee has lass then fifteen (IS) Months seniority; twenty-four (24) Months seniority fron the date of displarawnt if additional full tiMe staff is required as datarMinad by the Director of Manufacturing following discussion with the s.e.a. President or his delegate.
8)	Eaployees Wo do not have plant seniority can exercise their seniority rights in accordance with steps 1, 2 and 3.
Mote • the tapany and the Association President and/or delegate plus the dspartnsnt steward will Mutually deterwine if any anployee is able to perform any job to tiiieh his seniority entitles him. Any diaagrssMsnts regarding an enployee's ability to perform 8 job nay be entered as 8 grievance at the fourth step Of the grievance
■acall gisbts
Caployees will have recall rights in accordance with
Article 16.8.
Job Transfers
i) When a Job is transferred to another department, the snployee who has job ownership has the option of Moving with the Job. If the oaployee elects not to fol low the job, the following procedure will apply:
• 35 •
ii) A) Tta job being tranoforrod will bo offtrod in order of aeniarlty to the aaployee* in tbo d*partn*nt it it towing.
•) If no tilnytt vetwtMrt to Move with tbo job to tbo mm depot fern, tbo job trill bo pasted in accordance with tbo job potting prooodurot.
C) Tbo anployee Mho tad job oMntrthip and Mho • laetad not to’ Move withthejob,
Mitt axerciae bit toniority righto and follow tta buaping proeadura at dttcribod
in Article 16.3.
(16.6)	Caelutfont
Pravialona of atetiont (16.1), (16.2) and (16.3) of tbit articla ttalt not gpty ta part-tine or otudtnt oaptoytat.
(16.5)	Student* or Part-Tin* Trantfarrad to Full-Tiae
•mild any ttudait or part-tiaa aaployaa be given pennant oaptapwnt, tta otarting data that l be entered at af tta day that tranafer it aada froa taaparary ttatut.
(16.6)	S.C.A. ttoMardt
Far the purpota af veeationt and lay-off only, ttoMtrdt of the Aatociation that l, far the tern of their atawardthip, be granted top toniority on their reepective shiftt, and will renin on their ahift during the lay-off,
The Coapany Mill provide up to *ix (6) working daya per year for the purpote of furthering the foraal education of the Aatociation Steward*. The educational daya utilized ahall be Mutually agreed upon by the Coapany end S.E.A.
36
(16.7)Absence Due to Accident or Illness
An employee with seniori ty, absent due to accident or illness, shall continue to accuaulate seniority. An
employee will have Job ownership protection for two (2) years.
An employee who wt ll be viable to return to work within the two (2) year liait will forfeit job ownership after it has been concluded by the Coamittee not to extend the tiae limit. This review wi 11 be done no later titan the last aonth prior to the expirat i on of the two (2) year liait.
When an aaployee returns to work in leas than the two (2) years, and nodical inforaetion indicates he Mill be viable to porfora the regular duties of his job, he will be toaporarily assigned to 8 job he can perfora until such tiae as a job vacancy hernaiB aval lable to which he can qualify. This aaployee will then be required to secure job omerahip.
Where the aqiloyes provides nodical inforaetion that Indicates he la viable to perfora the regular duties of hit job within the two (2) years, he nay volvttari ly relinquish job ownership and be reassigned, by the Coapany, to 8 Job that he an perfora.
ACoanittee of four (A) equal in mabers between the Association and the Coapany will deal with the process
of extending the two (2) year limit and assigning such oaployees to aodified work. If the aaployee is in disagrecaent with the decision of the Coamittee, he may
appeal this decision to the Coamittee, provided such appeal is filed within seven (7) working days.
- 37 *
An aaployee way enter a grievance at the third step of tha grievance proeadura if tha Conittaaffails to roach an agraawant on axtandine tha tiaa Halts.
Eaployees establishing 8 coapansation data auat advise the Coapany aa aoon aa poaaibla aftar the injury occur a. Eqploysss on Workers' Coaponaation ciaia ara required to	of thair expected
return to uork data, updated at least ovary two (2> Masks.
(16.8)	Discharge, Tarartnation or Lay-Off
Seniority ahali caaaa «pon diachana for causa Or voluntary quitting. Eaployees Mho hava aoniority and ara al lay -off <p to ninety days ui II continue to eccuaulate aoniority.
For Mpiayoaa with last than 3 years' aoniority, it shall eoaoe aftar lay-off in axeaoa of twelve aonths, and for aaplnyoaa with 3 yoara' aoniority or aora, it •hall caaaa aftar 8 lay-off in excess of two years. iaployoaa aba ant for three consecutive working days, who fail to notify tha Foraawn or Plant Superintendent during that tint of tha rasa on for abaanra, shall be conaidarad to have qui t oaployawnt voluntari ly.
Eaployaaa Mho hava bean laid-off and Mho hava boon notified at their address according to the Coapony's records, to return to work and withi n three days have failed to do SO, without reasonable excuse shall be conaidarad to have qui t oaployawnt voluntarily and existing seniority rights shalltheraiponbe tenainatad.
38 •
(16.9)	Leave Of Absence
Leave of Absence My be granted at the discretion of the Conpany i n an SMrgency up to ninety calendar days. Leave of Absence my be granted for Association business.
A pregnant employee Mi U be granted such Leave of Absence as required by govemaent legislation. When applying for a Leave of Absence due to pregnancy, the employee aust give two Meeks' notice in uriting together
with a Mdical certificate estiMting the date of delivery.
Employees granted Leave of Absence subject to the considerations listed in the preceding paragraphs, shall continue to accuaulate seniority during such Leaves of Absence.
Leave of Absence for reasons other then eMrgency, compassionate grounds, S.E.A. business or pregnancy My be granted subject to the requirsMnts of business and other reasons at the discretion of Mnageoent to an enployee who has completed tMO years of service end has not been granted 8 Leave of Absence under this clause in the preceding three years.
Applications for Leaves of Absence under this
clause Mill norMlly only be considered for the Mnths of
October to June, inclusive. Weeks which include or precede or {Mediately follow a Statutory Holiday usually
require our entire work force, therefore, Leaves of Absence will normally not be granted during those periods. Lewes of Absence under this clause will normally not exceed three weeks.
. 39 .
When pluming activities ^f or which • Leave of Absence is anticipated, employees'are expected to sake naxiaus use of vacation schedules; to which they are entitled. Employees* re expected to exercise discretion in judgement idien sufaai tting requests for Leave of Absence. Absences should be planned as far in advance as possible.
Manegsaont'a decision in granting or refusing such leave wi ll not be arbitrable, in the wont that absence is granted wider the provisions of this article seniority shall continue to aecuaulate. \,
Welfare plans described in Article 8.2, 8.3 and . 8.6 will be continued for the Leave of Absence. The employee will retaburse the Company (other than pregnancy leave) for the cost of these benefits at 613.00 per week for an employee without dependents, and 68.00 per week for al employee with dependents. Contributions to the Company Pension Plan (21.4) will be aueponded for the leave of absence.
(16.10)	Provisions for Trainees
Persons whoa the Coapany is training to fill technical, cooaercial, or supervisory positions aay be employed or retrained in employment in plant operations irrespective of the seniority provisions of this 6 rticle, for • period of not longer than two years. This paragraph shall apply to trainees of the Coapany. The Secretary of the Association shall be advised of such appointments.
- 40
ARTICLE 17 - LAY-OFFS AND RECALLS <17.1) Order of Lay-Offs
Uhen necessary to reduce the work force, the order of layoff she11 be:
First * Casual, part-time and student employees
Second - Probationary employees, provided that the remaining employees can satisfactorily perform the jobs assigned.
Third * Eaployees with seniority in order of aanierity, provided that the remaining aoployees can satisfactorily perform the jobs assigned.
Baployees aho can qualify reasonably quickly will be |lmn en opportunity to do so. Where such employee cannot qualify reasonably quickly, the job will be given to the second most jinior s^nloyee in the plant end so on the line until a job is reached that he can perform satisfactorily or qualify for reasonably quickly. Those given euch opportunity to qualify, must within one ueek, have the ability to perform the job satisfactorily.
Plant asniority employees mey choose between king
essigned to best edventege or taking a lay-off provided that there are remaining full-time employees at work who are qualified to perform the available work.
(17.2) Order of Recall
When increasing the work force, the reverse procedure to lay-offs will be followed.
- Cl -
Any Mployw who has batn laid-off and Mho has been notified at his address, according to the Company's records, to return to work and within three days hre f ai lad to do no without reaaonabls oxcuaa, aha11 bs considered to hare quit his employment reliaitarlly.
(17.3)	S.E.A. Notification
Tho Association Secretary shall reeaire prior notification of all lay-offs and recalls.
(17.4)	Benefits on Lay-Off
Laid-off oaployoos with seniority will continue to be covered under Article 25 (except Weekly Indemnity and LengTermlHsab1lfty)for<t>+D • ight reeks of lay-off.
Up to fire additional reeks* coverage will be automatically provided at the employee's expanse if layoff continues. This cost Of continued coverage w ill be deducted from the employee's first pay cheque upon recall.
(17.5)	Plant Closing
Employees uith a • inimre of twelve (12) months seniority shall be eligible for transfer to mother division of the Coapany including Kitchener as permanent vacancies occur based on the provisions of Article (18.1) without loss Of seniority. Benefits shell continue until the end of the month following the month in which the layoff occurs. These provisions shall apply where lay-offs occur due to 8 plent closing or partial closing.
If the employ** declines a transfer to mother division of the Coapany, the following severance schedule shall apply:
- 42
Years of Completed Service	Amount
1
2
3
4
6
7
8 9
10
11
to
20
21 and over
$ 235.00 280.00 . 395.00
515.00
650.00
780.00
900.00 1#035.00 1,160.00 1,300.00
The 10 year allowance plus $205.00 for 6 6Ch year over 10, The 20 year allowance plus $260.00 for Mch year over 20,
In the event that the Employment Standards legislation provider a graatar benefit than datailad above, than it shall prevail.
(17.6)	Exclusions
The provision of this article Shall not apply to part-time or student employees.
ARTICLE 18 • PROGRESSION
(18.1)	Job Progression
The Company agrees to recognize the principle of seniority in job progression in S fair and equitable manner having regard not only to the length of service, but as well, to the knowledge, training, skill, efficiency, and physical fitness of the employee or employees concerned to do the work assigned.
. 43 .
(18.2) Job Vacancies	,
When • permanent Job vacancy, occurs within the plant, the vacancy wi U be posted>on~tha plant notice board for two (2) working days. \ V
. Interacted —loyaes in Mia plant wi 11 wake application to tliair For— n. Applications shall be consider ad according to the sane principle at defined in Article (18.1).
When an applicant on the sane rated Job is accepted, the change will be wade at quickly as possible without undue disruption within the plant. When an applicant on a lower rated job is accepted, the nova will be wade promptly.
Applications Iron any employees for a posted vacancy, ether than progression, will not be considered within six (6) Months of granting such previous application.
(18.3)	Exclusions
The provisions of this art ic le shall not apply to pert-time and student oaployees.
ARTICLE 19 - TRANSFERS
(19.1)	Temporary Transfers
Re~assi present to mother depsrtisent will be on 8 voluntary basis by seniority. If there are no volunteers, the Company wf U transfer fane*in oaployees out of the department end then the most junior eeployee, subject to the requirements of the business end the qualifications of employees to do the work required.
44
All employee Mho is temporarily transferred OUt of Ms own department or temporarily re-assigned within his own department on a repetitive basis may register his abjection to euch repetitive transfer or re-assignment, in Wiich case the Company Mi llmake 8 raasonable effort to obtain a replacement, eubject to seniority rights, Mho can perform the work satisfactorily.
Transfers will be done on • per shift basis as much as possible.
The Company may tamporari ly transfer any employee from one job to another, but no such temporary transfer shall ncoad three (3) months. Pay rates for employees on temporary tranafor shall be paid according to the provisions of Article 9.3.
(19.2)	Permanent Tranafer
Any employee permanently transferred to another job Mill be paid his existing rate or the rate of the job to lAiieh he has transferred, uhichever is the lesser.
When qualified, or Mi thin three months his rate shall be adjusted to the prevailing job rate. On jobs requiring a high degree of skill, it may be mutually agreed betueen the Company and the Association, that • longer period is justified.
Qualified as used above shall mean the ability to regularly perform the job without instruction or assistance.
- 45 •
(19.3)	Application for Tranofar
Eaployees nklng application ^transfer fro* one job to mother should f 1 la such application with the Plant Superintondont. Applications f ilad with the Plant Superintendent will ba processed, in diplicate, and one copy forwarded to the Association^
*<£ '
Tho Coopany will consider ell the; etrewntanees reasonably and fairly before giving its decision.
However, the Cowpany and the Association agree that, at tines, dut to tho d—nils of the production schedule, SBployae training, and f o r like reasons related to the need to naintain off iciant operations, it nay be necessary to regulate the frequsney by tdilch transfers will be •ranted.
Applications fron an snployee, for ether than progression, will net ba considered within twelve (12) nonths of granting such previous application.
Cnployaas Who accept aueh a transfer will do so with the understanding that they will be paid their existing rate or the rate of the job to which they have transferred, whichever is the lesser.
Should transferred employees be paid a rate lower
than the rote of the job to which they are transferred under this Article, the rate will be increased to the rate
of the new job in accordance with Article (9.4).
transfers Bade under this Article do not alter and are not subject to the provisions of tSMporery or pemanent transfers contained in Articles (19.1) and (19.2).
• 46
ARTICLE 20 • VACATIONS
(20.1)	Vacation Year
The vacation year wit l be from May 1st to the following April 30th.
(20.2)	Length of Service
The length of vacations will be based on the length of service and shall be calculated from the employment date for each employee to the 30th of April of each year.
(20.3)	Vacation Schedule
The length of vacation Hill be determined on the fot lowing schedules.
a)	Employees with one full year’s service will receive two weeks' vseati on.
b)	Employees with five full years' service wi ll receive three weeks' vacation.
c)	Employees with ten full years' service wi U receive four weeks' vacation.
d)	Employees iv ith eighteen full years' servi cc wi 11 receive five weeks' vacation.
a) Employees with twenty-f ive full years'service will receive six weeks' vacation.
f)	Employees with thirty-five full years’ service
Wi ll receive seven weeks' vacation.
- 47 -
(20.4)	Completion of Acquired Serv ice
Employ*** mho after .Nay let and prior to the end of the vacation year reach the *ervice required to entitle thorn to an additional week of vacation, in accordance with the vacation achodula in paragraph (20.3) (b), <c), (d), (e) and (f), mill become • ligibl* farsuch additional meek of vacation a l the completion of the required year* of service a* of their individual date of employment.
(20.5)	Advance Vacation	•
Employees Mho have vacatlorrontitlcmsnt earned by Nay 1st during any vacation year my drau the earned portion Of euch vacation on or after January 1st preceding the vacation period.
(20.6)	Vacation Pay
(a) Full-Time
Vacation pay shall be the regular dai ly or weekly hours at the employee1* regular hourly Or weekly rate in effect St the time of vacation.
The amounts stated above wi ll be reduced by 1/52 for each week of absence during the previous vacation year excepting absoneas Which • rn
■ with permission up to twenty working day* annually;
• due to lay-off up to twenty working days annually;
-	up to (1) on* year naxiaua from date of injury due to compensable accident covered under the Workmen's Compensation Act;
-	due to sickness which exceeds the following scale --
• 48 •
■	15 weeks from date of i 11ness for employees with lees than 5 years' senior! ty;
*	26 weeks fro* date of illness for
employees w ith less than 12 years' seniority;
■	52 weeks fro* date of illness for employees w ith acre than 12 years' seniority.
Employees returning fro* long ter* absence wi U only be considered as being back to work upon the completion of two weeks' (10 working days) continuous attendance following such absence.
In addition, vacation pay on overti*e and praniun earnings ealculatad at 2X tines the nuaber of weeks Of vacation antitleaent will be peid in a limp sun	•
year, to be distributed no later than the third poy week of Nay or sooner if available.
Vacation pay sipplesnnt will be paid to the fami ly of en osployee whose ewployaent has been tenainated due to
death.
(b) Part-Time, Student, Casual or Discharged Employees
Part-Tine, Student and discharged employees will
be eligible for vacation pay es provided by the Employment Standards Act.
• 49 -
(c) Terminations	:
Any full-time employee Mho voluntarily leaves the sarvica of the Compsny, shall be ant it lad to a proportionate vacation pay allowance based on that portion Of the year worked since Nay 1st and the totalramber Of coapleted years of continuous sarvica according to the provisions of Article (20.6) (a).
(20.7)	Choice of Vacation
Eaployecs shall, as far as possible, be given choice of vacation in order of seniority. The tinea at which vacations shall be taken shall be fixed by the Conpany.
The third, fourth, fifth, slxtii and seventh weak of vacation shall be taken during the months of October to my, inclusive, or at the convenience of the Conpany.
(20.8)	Statutory Holiday i n Vacation llsak
Hourlyrated, full-time and part-time employees whose vacations include any of the Statutory Holidays mentioned in Article IS shall receive an additional regular day's pay, or an alternate day off. Such day off to be taken a t 8 time convenient to the employee and
To qualify for the additional day Statutory Holiday pay in 8 vacation Meek that has been arranged in advance, the employee oust work his required regular shift preceding and following the Statutory Hoiiday, except if absent due to illness confirmed by a doctor’s certificate.
- 50 -
(20.9)	Mo Accuulation
Vacations with pay shall not be accumulated from year to year. Eaployees Bust take their vacations within their vacation year, except as provided in Article (20.5), or with H snag want's consent.
ARTICLE 21 - RETIREMENT
(21.1)	Noraal Ret ir want
Monsal ratirsawnt shall be St age 65.
(21.2)	Optional Early Retiraawnt
An aaployae May retire before his no met retiraawnt age and be entitled to 8 pension on the fol lowing basis:
*	unreduced ectuariatly for i>, period of
4S wonths Isawdiately prior to the eeployee's norwal rati resent date.
(21.3} Canada Mansion Plan
AH oaployees wet contribute to the Canada Pension Plan.
(21.4)	Csepany Mansion Plan
It wiU be a condition of enploysient for new anployeas to participate in the Coapany Pension Plan for whieh they arc eligible after cospleting two (2) years of service effective January 1, 19*7.
total contributions by en espi°yoo will be 2.4X of earnings to the YMPE and 4X in excess of those • arnings to the Company Pens ion Plan. Pension Plan vesting (Lock-in) will take place after two (2) years SWfflbership for pension a arned from January 1,1987.
• 51 •
Benef Its froa the Coapany Pension Plan St noraal ret 1 resent will ba $50.00 par yaar for aaeh $100.00 contribution aada by the aaployec.
Mon-Contributory $upplaasnt
Effact 1 vo January 1, 1909, the non-contributory pension sifplsaint shall be $11.50 per aonth for aach yaar of sarvica paid to all active oaploysos for continuous service prior to Dacaabar 31, 1988.
Effective January 1, 1990, the non-contributory pension supplsasnt shall be $12.50 per month for each yaar of service paid to all active aaployaea for continuous service prior to OeCilfeSr 31, 1989.
Cffaetiva January 1, 1991, the non-contributory pension sipplaaent shall ba $13.10 par aonth for aach yaar of service paid to all active aaploysss for continuous service pr ior to Oarabsr 31, 1990.
Contributory Oupplsasnt
A contributory pension supplsasnt of $3.30 per aonth for aaeh full yaar of Coapany Pension Plan participation prior to Pacadar 31, 1988 shall be paid to the oaployaes.
All the above Coapany Pension Contributory and Non-Contributory Bupplaaants ere guaranteed for 8 ainiaus Of sixty (60) monthly payasnts.
The Coapony agrees to aske available to the Association 8 copy of any and all bargaining unit pension plan text aaendsent et least twenty-one (21) days prior to presenting such aasndssnts to the Board of Directors for execution.
• 52 -
(21.5) Exclus ions
Probationary, part-time and student amployees • re excluded free item (21.4).
ARTICLE 22 - SAFETY, HEALTH AND SANITATION
The Company shell continue to make nonaal
provisions for the safety and health of employees bring the hours of their amplO)mmnt.
Protect ive&v ices and other equ ipment necessary to safeguard employees from injury she11 be provided by the Company and must be used by the employee.
Cleanliness in dressing rooms and washrooms is to be maintained at all t imes.
Cleanliness, good housekeeping, and sanitation are 8 prerequisite to the production of quality products.
Privacy in washrooms, as defined by the Health and Safety Act, will be provided by the Company.
Work uniforms and equipment must not be removed from the plant.
Employees are required to observe good housekeeping and sanitation procedures and maintain high
standards of personal hygiene 0 nd health.
Employees will, and the Association shall, encourage its members to co-operate fully in maintaining cleanliness and orderliness in the use of all facilities and devices provided by the company.
• 53 •
ARTICLE 23 - WELFARE PLANS
tf	.	.
(23.1) Eligibility
It Mill be 8 condition o ( employment for new employees to enroll in the Coapany Benefit Plano when they become* ligible.	■ .
‘,l{
Full-tine employees are eligible for coverage in the following bontf it plana (except 23.5) income Continuance) af ter they have accumulated 13 weeks Of serv ice. Eligibility for Income Continuance will take effect after 2 yeere of aceueuleted eervice.;
Any oeployeee idio ret ire f row employment are eligible for coverage in the appropriate Netiree^Benefit Plan.
(23.2)	Health Insurance
O.N.I.P., Stpplementary basic beneflta and major medical will rone in in effect for the term of this egreenant and will be automatically updated to any new O.N.A. fee schedule. The Optical benefit Is maximum B75.00 once every 24 months effective (January 1, 1990 -$100.00 once every 24 months). Nearing Aida $500.00 renewable every ten years.
Spouses of deceased employees wi 11 be covered by O.H.I.P., E.N.I.P. and Dental Plans for 8 period of 12 months from the first of the month following the death.
(23.3)	Life Insurance .
Life Insurance for active employees will be $20,000.00. In addition, each employee will be inured for a ccidental death in the same aaiountas the Life Insurance .
. 54 .
At age 65, or retireswnt, whichever occurs first,
• paid MP pot icy of $1,500.00 is provided. The cost of the Life and Accidental Death Insurance is coapletely paid toy the Coepany.
(25.4)	Weekly Indemnity
Sick pay is provided for absence due to i tineas or accident up to fifteen (15) Meeks at the rate of 66 2/3% (to the MXiMflR level of the U.I.C. benefit level) of the eaployee's regular daily or weekly hours et the regular hourly or Meekly rate in effect et the tine of illness or accident. Increase applicable to new claims following the date of ratification.
Peasant begins on the first day of absence, if due to an accident or confinement • hospital, end on the
fourth dey if due to other illness. The cost of this insurance is shared by the Company and the employee on a so-so basis.
An employee returning to Mork on a reduced work week rehabilitation prograame Mill have his Meekly indasnity benefit reduced by $.50 (fifty cants) for every dollar earned an the rehabilitation prograsne. For purposes of calculating the benefit reduction, the applicable eaployee base rate will be used.
(23.5)	Incone Continuance
Income Continuance is provided to cover lengthy absences due to illness or accident and pays 60% of the employee's basic wage or salary to a maximum of $305.00.
Increase applicable to DSW Clains following the date of ratification.
* 55 •
The cost of this insurance is shared by the Company end the anpleyaa on 8 SO'SO bttfs.
(23.6)	Dental Cara
The plan will cover 00X of at l eligible expanses up to the Ontario Dental Aaaocfatien foe schedule for basic preventative and restorative procaduraa. This ineludee the eaata of examination, fluoride treatments, x-rays, cleanings, fillings, extractions, aness thesis, gut care, gulp capping and surgical services. The plan also pays SOX of the foe schedule costs for prosthetic services such as new or the repairs of dentures (partial or complete). .
effective the first day of January 1909, Increase benefit to the 1900 O.D.A. fee schedule, effective the . first day of January 1990, increase benefit to the 1909 O.D.A. fee schedule, effective the first day of January 1991, increase benef it to the 1990 O.D.A. fee schedule.
The COSt Of thia insurance is completely paid by the Conpany.
(23.7)	II.I.C. a remit* Reduction
effective January 1, 1909, the U.I.C. Premium reduction on behalf of employee contributions towards the
Weekly Indemnity benefit for the tans of this contract, expiring Decart»r 31, 1991, shall be applied to reduce anployee Weakly Indemnity premium.
a) Benefits received under this plan will be reduced
on a dollar for dollar basis by C.P.P. primary disability benefits applicable to claims initiated following January 1, 1989.
• 56
b)	Provide for U.l.C. carve-OUt. Employee receives
up to fifteen (IS) weeks U.l.C. medical disability benefit after exhausting fifteen (15) weeks of Ceepeny Uaekly Indaonity Plan benefits. If illness continues beyond thirty (30) weeks from eeantnceosnt L.T.D. benefits would be applicable. Tha Cosparty will top off the U.l.C. benefit to eneure the employee receives 60% of his basic wage to amaxilUe of S305.00 per week. This will apply to claims initiated following date of ratification.
C) Change the definition of L.T.D. from "own occupation"to "any J.N. Schneider Inc. ocagwtion".
EOployees who • collecting Long Term Disability benefits and are eligible for an unreduced pension from tha Company Pension Plan and are expected to remain totally diaablad until normal retirement age, my e tact to retire from the Compony. The L.T.D. Benefit will be redueod by S.50 (fifty cents) for every dollar of pension received from the Company Pension Plan. Increases in pans ion psymtnts for retired smployses will apply to ooployeeswho have retired under this provision. employees reviewing this option with the Company eay have on S.E.A. executive representative attend the meeting, if they desire.
- 57
ARTICLE 24 - CLOTHIRC AND PERSONAL EQUIPMENT (24.1) Mu Eaployees
Clothing and equipaent requireaants, as designated by the Coapany, shall be provided to eaployees at no coat. Students, Alt to tholr teaporary status, shall bs required to purchase tho first Issus of such clothing and aquipasnt as asy be required. Now eaployees will pay full cost for the first Issue of safety hoes .
(24.2)	Rsplaceaant and Add! tlonal Clothiiy
Raplacaasnt and additional clothlns and equipaent Mill bs provided by the Coapany at no cost to tha aoploysc Mhsn authorised by tho Forsaan. This clothing and aquipasnt reaains ths property of the Coapany and oust not be rsaovsd froa the plant. Students shall be required to pay half the coat for raplacaasnt of personal clothing, including safety shoes.
Bach eaployee is responsible for the use and care of the clothing and aquipasnt and is liable for full replacsaant cost if lost or aaliciously daaagsd.
(24.3)	Transferred Eaployees
Eaployees transferring froa one jab to mother or froa one depertasnt to another, asy be requi red to turn in clothing and aquipasnt not needed on the new job but shall
be given my new equipsant or clothing required et no COSt to the eaployee.
(24.4)	Laundering '
The Coapany will provide and pay for the full cost of laundering of all clothing.
. 58 .
(24.5)	Maintenance Mechanic's Tools
Maintenance Mechanics will be supplied with neeessary tools at no cost to the employee. These too remain the property of the Company and are not to be renoved fro* the Company praises.
ARTICLE 25 - BULLETIN BOARD
The Co*peny agrees to provide 8 bul let in board in 8 conspicuous place in the plant for the display of Association notices and Material, provided that all such notices and material bear the signature of an Association official and have the approval of an E«ployee Relations representative before posting.
ARTICLE 26 - GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS
It is the intention of both pettier to this Agreement to operate Mi thin the laws and regulati ons of the Government of Canada and that of the province in uhich work is performed with respect to wages and other payments, hours, condi tions of work and other related setters.
ARTICLE 27 • COMMENCEMENT AND DURATION OF AGREEMENT (27.1) Effective Dates
Except as Otherwise provided, this Agreement shall bee one effective on th* Imt day of J^n^ry 1QAO prvH shall continue in effect until the 31st day of December 1991 and thereafter, fro* year to year, unless either party gives written notice to the other of termination or amendment of not more than ninety (90) days and not Less than thirty (30) days prior to the date of expiration.
• 59 -
(27.2) No Strike or Lockout	'
There shall be no Ctrl k*' W lockout during the life of this AgrMMnt Mid in no OVMTt ahaU the Aaaociation cauat, taka part in, of tolarata my eovaeent encouraging a alow down or atoppaga of work.
60
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEES
J. M. SCHNEIDER INC.	SCHNEIDERSEMPLO YEE8 ASSOC I AT I ON
H.W. SNORT	CHARLES LOSIER
D.A.LIPPERT	RAY ST. CROIX
S. KELLER	SHIRLEY TESBUTT
ELMER TROCHA GAIL HOSKIN VALTER PAYNE
• 61 *
amffiy
FOR EMPLOYEES HIRED PRIOR TO JANUARY 1. 1987 JOB NUMBERS. JOB DESCRIPTIONS. RATES OF RAY AYR
JOB
jLms&mm
Casual/Student/Part-time
700	Poultry Pack-off '	%
701	Office * Night Clean-Up
703	Clerk	&£
704	Poultry	cut-up
705	Shipper, Receiver, Stores	$
706	Truck	Drivers
707	Lift Truck Operators	u
70S Sanitation • Fryar*
710	Sanitation - Poultry Cut-up
711	Sanitation - Mac.
712	Sanitation • Front End Raw Poultry 11.09
721	Poultry Operator • Raw Poultry 11.37
722	Poultry Operator - Cooked Poultry 11.23 731 Poultry Set-up and Defrost 11.23 740 Defects Analyaie Control 11.23
EFFECT U£
JAN. JAN. i DEC. 1/D9	1/90 W 31/90
$ 4.2K* 0 6IU ■ 0.60 10.01 11.01 11.21 1T.01 11.21 11 J36T 11.56 11.15- 11.35
11.57	11.77
10.36	10.76
11.36	11.56
11.36	11.56
11.29	11.49
11.29	11.49
11.29	11.49
11.57	11.77
11.43	11.63
11.43	11.63
11.43	11.63
10.81
11.16
10.95
11.37
9.96
11.16
11.16
11.09
11.09
In addition to the above rates of pay, employees
covered by Appendix "A" shall receive a premium of S.20 per hour to be paid weekly for regular hours worked to 8 maximum of 40 hours per week for the duration of this Collective Agreement expiring December 31, 1991.
Lead, Hand Premium * S.35 Per Hour.
• 62 •
APPENDIX «B»
FOR EMPLOYEES HIRED AFfrER JANUARY 11987 JOB NUMBERS. TOR DESCRIPTIONS. RATES Ur PAY AYR
JOB
JL
700
701
703
704
705
706
707
708
710
711
712
721
722 731 740
BS£C"lP.T|ON
Casual/Student/Part*time	$
Poultry Pack-off Office * Night Cl can* up Clerk
Poultry Cut-up
Shipper, Receiver, Stores
Truck Drivers
Lift Truck Operators
Sanitation * Fryers
Sanitation - Poultry Cut*up
Sanitation • Nise.
Sanitation .Front End Raw Poultry Poultry Operator * Raw Poultry Poultry Operator - Cooked Poultry Poultry Set-up and Defrost Defects Analysis Control
EFFECTIVE
JAN . JAN . DEC . 1/89	1/90	31/90
8.20 S 3.4Q S 8.60
9.40	9.80	10.20
9.40	9.80 10.20
9.75	10.45 10.55
9.54	9.94	10.34
9.96	10.36 10.76
9.96	10.36 10.76
9.75	10.15 10.55
9.75	10.15 10.55
9.68	10.08 10.48
9.68	10.08 10.48
9.68	10.08 10.48
9.96	10.36 10.76
9.82	10.22 10.62
9.82	10.22 10.62
9.82	10.22 10.62
lead Hand Premium -S.35 Per Hour
* 63 •
MAINTENANCE KATE SCHEDULE!
JOB	f JAN. JAN. DEC.
i DESCRIPTION	Jv.;	MSS. 31/90
750	twn» Treatment Plant Operator fis.02 $15.42 $15.82
751 General Maintenance	| $14.71 $15.11 $15 .51
752	Jourmyan Maintenance Mechanic $15.71 $16.11 $16.51
755 3rd Class Stationary Enelneer $15.02 $15.42 $15.82
t
755 4th Class Ctatfonary Engineer $14.25 $14.63 $15.03
letter of Understanding »1
This letter will serve to clarify the intent of the parties regarding the hiring of casual employees to fulltime positions as set out in Article 3.1
1)	All permanent jobs will be filled and staffed by full ttae staff.
2)	I tea #1 will be offered to existing casual employees before an outside hiring occurs .
3)	(tea f2 above does not preclude the Coapany froa hiring directly froa outside in the case of skilled trades job openings.
4)	Students will be hired for vacation replacaaent end voluee variations between April 1, and Septeaber 30, of each year.
. 65 -
Lfttf of Understanding #2
To ensure there Is no aisunderstanding with regard to "personal nacasslty tlae" far oaergoncy situations, this lattarulll stats tha Coapany's position.
■The Caapany recognizes that froa tiae to tiae or for certain aadical rassons, aaployaas aay require aore personal nacasslty tlas than was aip*aad to St negotiations. The Coapsny will allow aaployaas aore personal nacasslty tin or frequencies whan it is absolutely necessary. Mowevor, these occasions auat be the exception rather than tha rule.11
In other aaarganry situations, aaployaas are expected to observe no aore than the noraal personal necessity breaks during their shift.
- 66 -
Letter of Understand! ng.J3
Nr. Chari** losier President
Schneider Eaployees' Association Dear Nr. losier:
Should the level of production et the Ayr facility warrant a partial or total plant shutdown during the Christaas/New Year period, employees will qualify for Statutory Holiday pay on the following basis:
• 9 Employees scheduled work will qualify for
Statutory Holiday pay in accordance with Article
13.3.
b)	In the event of s one week shutdown, asployees will qualify for Statutory Holiday pay by work ing their last scheduled shift in the week preceding the week of shutdown and their first scheduled shift in the week following the shutdown.
c)	In the event of * two week shutdown, employees will qualify for Statutory Holiday pay by working their last scheduled shift in the week preceding the shutdown * d their first scheduled shift in the week following the shutdown.
* 67 -
d) In tha want of a two weak shutdown, sqployaes Who worked their last scheduled shift in the week preceding the shutdown and who do not ritum to Mirk in tht wok following tho shutdown duo to hiing in lay-off, will qualify for the statutory holidays in tht first wssk of tho shutdown only.
IttU Ssploysss who oro scheduled to ritum in the week following tho shutdown and fail to present th—elves as sehadulad will not quolify far any Statutory Holiday gay axcapt as apaeifiad in tha last paragraph of Article 1S.3. This f s applicabla to a ano wash or two wash shutdown.
a) taplnyess who do not work in tha woak pracoding tha shutdoii will not qualify fir any Statutory Holiday pay.
f) Tha colony will psmft tha usual mafctr of
saployasa to schadulo vacation during thaoo waaka. Tha saployasa will qualify for Statutory Holiday pay as apaeifiad in Article u.s. Csployaas dw are working and have sehadulad a wsok of vacation far tha wsok pracoding tha waok on which tha Statutory Holiday occurs will qualify for Statutory Holiday pay providod they return to work on their first sehadulad shift in the weak following tha Statutory Holiday.
68
g)	EMptoyWS on lay-off Hi 11 be pertti tted to schedule
vacation during the MCOk or Meeks of the shutdown for purposes of receiving vacation pay but this Will not qualify than for any Statutory Holiday
p*y-
Yours truly
H.W. Short
NATIONAL EMPL0TEE RELATIONS MANAGER
- 69
,tfnflw»tandfna #4
Nr. Charles Losier Prttldmt
Schneider Eaployees' Association 521 Courtland Avonus Soot Kitchener, Ontario K2G 5X8
Oaar Nr. Losier:
The Coapany agrees that In tha avant of aala of the Coapany to a new buyer, tha Coapany shall require the Purchaser to cause to be rag 1 stared a mu pension plan which shall provide the transferred eaployees with pension benefits which are no loss favourable to the eaployees than those currently provided under the Plan and which shall provide for nsendsent or termination of that pension plsn an terns no aore favourable to the Purchaser than those currently found in the Plan.
Yours truly
N.U. short
NATIONAL EMPLOYEE RELATIONS MANAGER
- 70 -
Letter of Intent <1
Mr. Charles Losier President
Schneider Eaployees' Association Dear Mr. Losier:
This Mill confine our discussion during contract negotiations that the Company uill continue es much as possible to follow the current practice of recalling casuel eaployees on the basis of length of service when there is a requirement.
Yours truly
Brian Keller PRODUCTION MANAGER
- 71 -
The interest of Workers andithe interest of management can . never 'be separated successfMlly. The well-being of one I	travels side by side with the other, and when this fact is
realized, and the employee and employer join hands to work out their problems together; they will have industrial peace, prosperity and happiness.