UNION AGREEMENT - 1991
THIS AGREEMENT entered into for the period
FROM? APRIL 1, 1991 TO:	MARCH 31, 1994
AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
BURNS MEATS
A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS (1985) LIMITED WINNIPEG, MANITOBA
hereinafter referred to as "the Company" and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION
LOCAL NO. 832	[L a CA<-
hereinafter referred to as "the Union"

In consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained the parties hereto agree each with the other as follows:
RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency.
The Company will not bargain collectively with any other labour organization affecting employees in the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 1 - Purposes
The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationehip between the Company and its employees; to provide an amicable method of settling any grievances or differences which might possibly arise; to promote the mutual interests of the employer and the employees. The Company and the employees jointly recognize the continuing need for maintaining efficient production in the packinghouse industry at all times and the necessity of rendering efficient service to the producers and consumere and realizing their mutual responsibility pledge full cooperation to that end.
ARTICLE 2 - Bargaining Unit
2.1	The bargaining unit is comprised of all the employees on the plant
payroll, as distinguished from the office payroll, with the exception of:
£)D3?S&/
DEC 1 0 1991
(a)	Security Officer.
(b)	Assistant operations Supervisor and those above the rank of assistant Operations Supervisor.
(Cj Employees represented by any certified bargaining agent other than the union.
2.2	It is generally the practice of the Company to have work within the plant performed by employees of the Company. However, because of reasons such as the availability of skilled employees, complexity of the work, the cost of equipment required t o do the work in relation to its use, the scope of the work, the duration and frequency of the work, the cost to have the work performed by employees as compared to other alternatives, it may become necessary to have the work within the plant performed by outside contractors.
Where outside contractors perform work within the plant and such work represents a material change in practice creating an adverse effect on present employees of a group affected by such material change in practice, the matter may be processed as a grievance under Article 4 of this Agreement, Should the grievance be referred to an arbitration board as provided under Article 5, the arbitration board will consider the reasons mentioned in the first paragraph of this section in its determination of the use by the Company of such outside contractors and where the arbitration board determines that the use of such outside contractors does create such an adverse effect, the Company will, within a reasonable period, either discontinue the work or have it performed by employees.
The foregoing shall not apply to the cafeteria, country deliveries, construction and installation work.
The company may introduce work utilising Company employees on a trial or test basis. If the result of such an experiment indicates that, for reasons set out in the first paragraph of this section, the work should be transferred to an outside contractor this shall not be construed as being a change in general practice.
2.3	The Company agrees that:
1.	Operations Supervisor and those above the rank of Operations Supervisor, and
2.	Unless otherwise mutually agreed, an assistant Operations Supervisor appointed to a newly created assistant Operations supervisor position shall not assume duties that are normally performed by hourly paid employees except where such duties are limited to occasional work, negligible in amount, but such a operations Supervisor or Assistant Operation6 Supervisor shall in no way be restricted from work which:
a)	is of confidential clerical nature.
b)	is for the purpose of instruction, experimentation, demonstration, investigation, replacement of an employee absent from his/her job during the day, sharpening knives, coping with
2
an emergency. Ai emergency as herein contained shall not be construed as including work resulting from additional volume.
c)	is to overcome production difficulties caused by the absence of an employee. In such cases the Company will advise the Union as to the absence of the employee and will obtain a suitable replacement within one-half (1/2) day.
ARTICLE 3 - Management
3.1	The Union recognizes the sole right of the Company to manage the plant and direct the work of the employees including the right to hire, promote, demote, suspend, discharge for just cause, lay-off, assign to jobs and shifts, transfer employees from department to department; increase or decrease the working forces, determine the products t o be handled, processed or manufactured; the schedule of production and the methods, processes and means of production and the handling of same.
The Company shall not discriminate against present and prospective employees whether or not they are members of the Union. This Article shall not be used for the purpose of avoiding the effect of the other provisions of this Agreement.
3.2	In administering this Agreement, the company shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a manner consistent with the Agreement as a whole.
HI TICLE 4 - S] i______Procedure
4.1	Should any difference arise under this Agreement between the Company and the employee members of the Union it shall be settled by the following method, each step to be taken progressively without delay unless the difference has been settled in an earlier step:
TrmgT the employee or the steward of the department or both, shall take the question up with his/her Production Supervisor. In respect to any settlement: effected by the employee without the steward, the steward may reopen the question by discussing same with the employee and the Production Supervieor. Grievances may be submitted in writing if either party considers it necessary. If the question is not settled by the end of the next work day; then
SECOND the Chief Steward, or his/her designated representative both of wham shall be employees of the Company and members of the bargaining unit as defined under Article 2, with or without the steward of the department, shall present the question in writing to the appropriate manager, or in his/her absence the Company's designated representative.
If the question is not settled by the end of the next two (2) working days; then
THIRD within five (5) working days the question shall be presented in writing to the plant management by the Grievance Committee of the Union which may be accompanied by a full time staff member of the Union (not
3
necessarily an employee) , a decision to be rendered within five (5) working days of the date of discussion.
The wording of grievances may be changed or amended for the purpose of clarification at any time up to and including the third step of the grievance procedure.
FOURTH If the difference remains unresolved, then within one (1) calendar month of the date of decision under the third step of the grievance procedure, and the grievance remaining outstanding, measure8 shall be taken under the procedure as outlined in Article 5 hereof.
For the purpose of this section the term "working days" shall not include Saturday, Sunday or any paid holiday referred to in Schedule "B" .
4.2	The Grievance Committee, comprised of regular employees of the Company who have attained seniority, shall be elected by the Union, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of that committee. The number of employees on the Grievance Committee at the plant shall not exceed four (4).
4.3	It is understood and agreed that the time limits set out in Article 4 may be extended as agreed between the parties provided such agreement is in writing and signed by both parties.
4.4	The employee may be present if (s) he so desires in any of the steps outlined in Section 1 hereof. Where the grievor is on a shift differing from that in which the grievance meeting is held (s)he will be paid, along with the Grievance Committee, at his/her regular job rate for time spent with plant management at such grievance meeting.
4.5	When a decision is reached under any one of the methods outlined in Section 4.1, immediately preceding, such decision shall be final and binding and shall be retroactive to the date of the original submission in writing unless otherwise directed in such decision. If the grievance affects a rate of pay it shall be retroactive to the date it was first submitted in writing, or if the cause of such grievance arose prior thereto then the adjustment will be made retroactively to the date the error was made or such other period as may be agreed upon.
4.6	Except as provided under the first paragraph of Article 10, Section 1 if an employee deems (s)he has been unjustly suspended, unjustly discharged or unjustly laid off from the service of the Company, (s)he shall submit his/her difference in writing through the Grievance Committee of the Union within five (5) working days after date of separation, and the difference will be conaidered commencing at the second step of Section 1 of this Article. In the event of such employee being reinstated, (s)he shall be paid for this period during which (s)he has not worked as if (9)he had not been suspended, discharged or laid off, subject to such adjustment a8 the settlement may determine.
4.7	Should any difference arise between the Company and the Union as to the meaning and application of the provisions of the Agreement, the question
shall be taken up commencing at the third step of Section 1 hereof.
4.8	Pending settlement of a difference as outlined in Section 1 and 7 hereof, an aggrieved employee shall perform the duties assigned to him/her by the person in charge of the department, provided however, where such duties involve a transfer reasonable consideration shall be given to ability and in the case of an immediate transfer, extreme changes in temperature. Where an employee has a question concerning his/her transfer and the department Steward is not available for consultation, (s)he will register the question with the Production supervisor. The Production Supervisor will arrange to have the department Steward discuss the matter with the employee within one (1) hour of such transfer.
4.9	Shop stewards and assistant shop stewards, all of whom shall be regular employees of the Company who have attained seniority, the number to be decided by negotiation between the Union and the Company, shall be elected by the Union and recognized by the Company. A list of all such stewards stating the department or groups each represents shall be supplied to the company. The Company shall be advised immediately by the Union in writing of any change in this list. The assistant Shop steward will act only when the shop steward is absent from the plant.
4.10	Before a steward, or an executive officer, (or a member of the Grievance Committee in case the grievance has reached the third step) leaves his/her job or his/her department (s)he shall first notify the person in charge of that department of the difference (s)he wishes to investigate or process and shall then, within one (1) hour, be granted permission to leave. Should the Steward or executive officer of the Union go into any department (s)he shall first report to the person in charge of that department, provided (s) he is available, giving the difference (s) he wishes to investigate or process.
4.11	If an employee is being interviewed privately by his/her Operation Supervisor about a matter that could result in his/her discharge or suspension, the employee's department steward will be present to represent the employee unless the employee informs his/her department steward that the employee does not wish the steward to be present. If such interview is conducted by a Manager, who is above the rank of Operation Supervisor, the employee shall have the Chief Steward or designate present as a witness.
If an employee is discharged, suspended or issued a written reprimand, the Company shall notify the Union in writing within two (2) working days stating the reason for such discharge, suspension or reprimand.
4.12	No Cessation of Work. There shall be no strikes, or lockouts during the term of this Agreement and thereafter while negotiations are under way Cor a renewal or extension thereof, and the Union and its members shall not during the aforementioned period authorize, call, encourage support or take part in any strike, walkout, stoppage, slowing down or other cessation of work in or on the Company's plant or property which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company.
- 5 -
The Union agrees that no strike vote of the members of the Local Union will be taken during the term of this Agreement.
The Union agrees that no strike vote of the members will be taken during the course of negotiations with the Company for renewal or extension of the Agreement until an attempt has been made in good faith to settle any differences arising in such negotiations by conciliation or some other form of mediation.
4.13 An employee who has accumulated a disciplinary record will have that disciplinary record removed providing (s)he can work without disciplinary action being taken from him/her for a period of three (3) years from the date of his/her last disciplinary infraction. To qualify €or this amnesty, the employee will have to maintain an 80% attendance rate during each of the three (3) years.
Employees on leave as a result of Union Business granted under Article
13.1	a) and 13.2 shall have that period of leave deemed t o be days of attendance €orthe purpose of this section 4.13.
A] r 5 - ftrl
5.1	Any disagreement, grievance or dispute arising under this Agreement which is not settled to the satisfaction of either the Union or the Company under the provisions of Article 4 hereof, shall, upon the written notice of either party, be submitted t o an Arbitration Board, provided the grievance involves the interpretation or alleged violation of any provision of this Agreement. The Arbitration Board shall consist of three (3) members, one of whom shall be nominated by the grieving party who will name its nominee to the board no later than one (1) calendar week from the date of written notice of its intent to arbitrate the grievance, and one by the other party who will name its nominee within another calendar week, and a Chairman t o bo selected by the two nominees no later than two (2) calendar weeks thereafter. In the event of failure of the two nominees to agree upon the selection of a Chairman, such Chairman, who will be someone other than a civil servant, shall be appointed as provided by the Manitoba Labour Act.
5.2	The matters and things to be considered and the decision rendered by such Board shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
5.3	It is agreed that neither the Company nor the Union will prevent the other party from referring a difference to arbitration to determine if the difference is arbitrable. A question of arbitrability need not be raised during the grievance procedure. If the Arbitration Board determines the grievance is arbitrable, the same Board shall then consider the grievance itself.
5.4	Decisions shall be determined by a majority of the members of 'the Board and such decision shall be final and binding on the parties hereto.
5.5	The Union and the Company shall pay the fees and expenses of their respective nominees and the fees and expenses of the Chairman shall be
6
divided equally between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 6 - Union Security
6.1	All employees shall become union members and shall maintain union membership as a condition of errployment. A new employee shall become a member of the Union within thirty (30) calendar days following his/her date of hire. The Company agrees to obtain applications for membership in the Union at time of hire from such employees and membership in the Union will be granted within thirty (30) calendar days.
6.2	Employee Union members shall be considered to have maintained membership in the Union in good standing so long as they pay the regular Union dues, initiation fees and special assessments uniformly required of all members of the Local Union,
6.3	No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against his/her application for membership or for reinstatement as a member of the Union, nor shall any discrimination of any kind whatever be practiced or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union.
6.4	At the time of hire the Company agrees to provide the employee with:
i)	A letter which outlines the employees responsibilities for the payment of union dues and initiation fees.
ii)	A postcard (exhibit 1 attached to this Agreement) which is to be returned to the Union within ten (10) calendar days from the date of hire.
The contents of said letter and postcard will be acceptable to the Company, however, the Union will prepare and supply said letter(s) and postcard (s) with no expense being incurred by the Company for such preparation, supplying or mailing, which may be involved.
6.5	Union Representative Visits
j
j A full time Union Representative, known to the management as the l Servicing Representative will be entitled to visit the unit for the purpose of observing working conditions, interviewing members, and to ensure that the terms of the Collective Agreement are being implemented.
a)	Under no circumstances will a Union Representative interrupt, disrupt or stop any employee while engaged in the performance of their duties. If the Union Representative wishes to speak to any employee, (s)he shall first obtain permission from the Operation Supervisor, who shall not unreasonably deny this request.
b)	When entering the plant: and before visiting the plant, the Union Representative shall contact the management representative and advise that (s)he intends to visit the plant. The Company shall then allow the Chief Steward or designate to accompany the Union
- 7 -
Representative during such visits.
The Union Representative, when entering a department, shall first inform the Operation Supervisor of his or her presence.
When in the plant, the Union Representative will follow and observe all policies governing plant operation.
ARTICLE 7 - Check-off
7.1	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of the employees such Union dues, initiation fees and special assessments uniformly required of all members, as are authorized by the Union. The Company further agrees to deduct the union dues automatically from the wages of newly hired employees first paycheque(s) . Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union within twenty (20) calendar days following the end of the Company's four (4) or five (5) weeks accounting period and accompanied by a four (4) weeks' or monthly list of all of the names, social insurance numbers, addresees and phone numbers of employees, known to the Company, covered by this Collective Agreement and the amount of each deduction.
7.2	The union shall advise the Company in writing of the amount of the initiation fee, union dues and special assessments authorized by the employees in keeping with the Constitution and By-Laws of the Union,
and such deductions shall be deducted in the payroll week next following the receipt of such advice.
ARTICLE 8 - Hours of Weak and Overtime
a. 1 For the purpose of calculating if overtime is payable, the Company shall set out in Schedule "Cn the hours of work, which may vary from department to department and between employees within a department. The hours set out in Schedule "C" shall total not more than eight_X&X. in any day or forty (40) for any payroll week, unless otherwise 'mutually agreed,	____—'
At the commencement o£ each year, but in any event no later than January 15th, the Company will provide the Union with copies of all current Schedule "C's". Further, any Schedule "C" revised as provided under Section 2, immediately following, will also be provided to the Union.
The Company and the Local Union may from time to time enter into an Agreement to modify the hours of work outlined in this Article 8,
Section 1 so long as those employees affected unanimously agree to the modified hours of work.
8.2	schedule "C" may be changed from time to time as required to meet the needs of the business, but such changes shall not be made effective until seven (7) days notice has been given in the case of a gang, or twenty-four (24) hours notice in the case of individual employees. When an individual employee is required, before the expiry of the said
a
twenty-four (24) hours notice, to work before or after his/her scheduled hours (s)he shall receive overtime for such work.
Similarly in the case of a gang when an employee is required, before the expiry of the said seven (7) days notice, to work before or after his/her scheduled hours (s)he shall receive overtime for such work. Provided however, when the only change is that the starting time is set back by the Company to a later hour, such change shall not be regarded as a change in the scheduled hours under the provisions of this Section 2 but overtime shall commence after the normal end of the shift.
Changes contemplated in a gang schedule will be discussed with the Union before they are made and, where feasible contemplated changes in the schedule for any individual will also be discussed.
8.3	The Company and the union recognize that it may be necessary for
employees to work in excess of their regular number of hours due to fluctuating livestock receipts and variable volume but the Company will limit the hours of work beyond such regular number of hours to what is reasonable.
a)	Should overtime be required, the Company shall notify the Steward of the department or designate where the overtime is required, and said Shop Steward, or designate will solicit employees to work the overtime and will attempt to ensure that sufficient qualified employees are provided for the required overtime.
Overtime will rotate on the basis that the senior qualified employee(s) within the department are provided with the first opportunity to work the overtime, in rotation to the junior qualified employee within the department and when the rotation i s complete another rotation will commence and continue on the same
basis
i)	the Company has the right to alter the overtime line up if it determines that any employee(s) designated to work overtime is not qualified for the available work and the Company may substitute another employee(s) for the employee who is not qualified; or if the shop steward or designate is not able to provide sufficient qualified employees to work the required overtime, then the Company will attempt to obtain a qualified replacement from another department. In the event that no qualified replacement is available, then the Company can assign the work to the junior qualified employee in the rotation.
ii)	if a qualified employee is inadvertently missed in the rotation, that employee w i l l be given the first opportunity to work the next time overtime work is requited,
iii)	in the event that there is sufficient overtime work for the full rotation, the notice of overtime will be posted in a conspicuous location in the department. Employees may request leave from overtime duties on the basis that should a qualified employee not be available for replacement, leave will not be granted.
9 -
8.4	Continuous shift operators, such as firemen and engineers, may be requited to work forty-four (44) hours in a payroll weak, but shall receive overtime rates for the hours worked, in excess of Forty (40), but
overtime shall not apply where work shifts of varying lengths do not average more than forty (40) hours.
8.5	For all hours worked in excess of the number of hours set out in
Schedule "C" an hourly paid employee, other than a continuous shift operator, shall be paid overtime at one and one-half (11/2) times his/her regular hourly rate or temporary rate whichever is being paid when overtime commences. For all hours worked in excess of thirteen (13) continuous hours twice such rate shall replace one and one-half (1 1/2). After thirteen (13) hou r iT oT“ao ntinuous work a second meal will be furnished by the Company, to be eaten on Company 'EISS, not to”excess' twenty (20) minutes.
8.6	An employee, who has left the Company's premises, specially called outside his/her scheduled hours for emergenay work shall be through when tho emergency is over. For such emergenay work, being that outside of scheduled hours, (s)he shall be paid four (4) hours at hLs/her job rate or for the hours actually worked at the overtime rate, whichever is the greater.
8.7	An employee who works more than one and one-half (1 1/21 hours overtime after the end of hLs/her regular shift will be furnished a meal..tat.the Company, to be eaten on Company time, not to exceed twenty (20) minutes.
Employees other than those who eat their meal on the job, if required to work in excess of five (5) hours on non-soheduled days, (not to include Paid Holidays falling on scheduled workdays), will be providediKith- a meal, but will not be entitled to pay for the meal period,
a)	when a meal cannot be supplied by the Company, a meal allowance of $5.00 will be paid in lieu.
8.8	Sunday Work Double the regular hourly rate shall be paid to hourly-paid employees for work performed on Sunday except where the work regularly falls on Sunday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid double the regular hourly rate if (s)hs works on hLs/her day off in lieu of Sunday, In the case of enployees starting a night shift prior to midnight Sunday, the hours worked before midnight will not be considered as Sunday work as these hours are part c£ their Monday shift.
Where an employee's scheduled days off do not inolude an actual Sunday, then the second day off shall be deemed to be his/her Sunday.
8.9 Employees, when o&lled for work, shall be guaranteed four (4) hours gay ,	for that; day at the regular hourly rate. Employees who leave of their
own accord when work ia available will not receive this guaranteed /yV\ minimum four (4) hours pay.
Where less than four (4) hours work are regularly scheduled, such scheduled hours shall constitute the guarantee.
8.10	An employes shall not be required to work more then Five (S) hours after
10
the scheduled starting time without a lunch period, or more than two and one half (2 1/2) hours after the scheduled starting time without a fifteen (15) minute rest period, nor more than two and one half (2 1/2) hours after a lunch period without such rest period.. An employee who works more than five (5) hours after the lunch period will be granted a further fifteen (15)minute rest period except where the Company furnishes a meal as provided under Section 7 of this Article:
i)	the Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity,
employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day i
ii)	the Union agrees that rest periods must not be abused,
ill) when a transfer occurs during working hours that necessitates a
change of work clothing, employees will not be expected to utilize their fifteen (15) minute rest period in the forenoon or afternoon.
These provisions shall not be applicable in cases of emergency nor to continuous shift operators such as Firemen or Engineers.
8.11	During a mechanical breakdown time shall continue to accumulate to an employee transferred temporarily to other work or instructed by his/her Production Supervisor to wait on the premises of the Company.
8.12	The payment of overtime, holiday or Sunday rates in Article 8
shall not be construed to require duplication of overtime, holiday or Sunday pay involving the same hours of work. More particularly, it is understood that no unforeseen or unexpected costs, above and beyond the actual premium rate provided for herein because of conflicting provisions elsewhere in the Collective Agreement will be incurred to the Company.
ARTICLE 9-37 Hours Pay Guarantee
9.1	Based upon the present prevailing hours of work, as outlined in Schedule "B" hereof, if a regular employee's weekly earnings, excluding overtime, night premium, and knife sharpening bonus, do not amount to the equivalent of thirty-seven (37) hours pay at his/her job rate, hereinafter called the "guaranteed payment", the Company shall make up the difference subject to the following provisions:
(a)	The provisions of this Article 9 shall not apply to:
(i)	employees hired on a casual basis for such work as cured hide take-up, snow shovellers, wreckers, and
(ii)	employees discharged for cause, suspended, or voluntarily leaving the service of the Company.
(b)	Overtime payments made to an employee under Section 2 of Article 8 of this Collective Agreement shall not be deemed to be "overtime" for the purposes of Article 9 Subsection 1.
11
(C) The guaranteed payment shall be reduced one quarter (1/4) hour for each quarter hour or fraction thereof an employee is absent from work during scheduled working hours.
<d) For purposes of the 37 hours pay guarantee, if an employee does not perform the work assigned to him/her the guaranteed payment for the payroll week in which such absence occurs shall be reduced by the number of hours (s)he missed.
(e)	An employee who is employed after the first of the plant week shall be guaranteed, for such week, that fraction of the guaranteed payment which the normal hours remaining of the plant week is of forty (40) hours.
(f)	Employees on lay-off notice shall be entitled to their guaranteed payment for the week in which notice is given, and should the notice extend into a subsequent week then the guaranteed payment for such week shall be that fraction of thirty-seven (37) hours pay which the normal hours for those days of the notice occurring in such week is of forty (40).
(9) Where the observance of a holiday other than any of the stipulated Paid Holidays, leaves lese than thirty-seven (37) scheduled hours in the payroll week, the guaranteed payment shall he the number of scheduled hours available for work.
<h) If only part of the employees in any gang receiving guarantee pay can be used on other work, they shall bo entitled to any guarantee pay due their gang, plus whatever they earn on the other work, provided they have been present each work day and worked all hours
as ordered.
9.2	In order to meet the demands of the business in filling rush orders, the Company may hire pa.Ejt-ti,roe workers excluded from the provisions of this Article for work of twenty-four (2 4) hours or less in a payroll week provided the Union is notified when such part-time workers are hired.
In the event there is a person with seniority on lay-off, (s)he will be given the first opportunity for such part-time work provided (s)he has the necessary qualifications to perforrn'such work. Park-time workers will be the first to be laid off in the event of a general lay-off occurring in the plant.
9.3	Subject to other provisions of this Article 9, in a payroll week containing a recognized Paid Holiday or holidays the "guaranteed payment" shall be the employee's job rate multiplied by hours as follows:
Hours set out in Schedule "C" less three (3) hours for days apart from recognized Paid Holidays plus eight (8) hours for each such holiday in that week.
ARTICLE 10 - seniority
- 12
10.1	Seniority is defined as the length of an employee's service with the Company determined by inclusion on the plant payroll, referred to herein as "plant work", provided however, that an employee will be on probation and not subject to the seniority provieions contained herein, until (a)he has completed fifty (SO) scheduled days of employment, on plant work, within a consecutive nine (9) month period and has received pay for each such day at least equal to the minimum provided under Article 8, Section 9 hereof. Until a probationary employee ha8 acquired seniority, (s)he may be separated from the Company's employ at any time without reference to the grievance procedure and the Company shall be under no obligation to rehire. Upon completion of such probationary period the employee's name will be placed on the seniority List. An employee's service shall be calculated as the elapsed time from the data (s)he was first employed on plant work, unless his/her seniority was broken, in which event the calculation shall be from the date (s)he returned to plant work following the last break in seniority, subject to the following:
(a) continuous service with the Company in any capacity prior to September 2, 1948, will be included in establishing an employee's seniority date.
(b)	service in the capacity of Production Superviaor or assistant Production Supervisor prior to November 1, 1966, will be included in establishing an employee's seniority date.
(a)	an employee returning to plant work from another part of the
company's service will be credited with his/her previous service in plant work, notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Article relating to seniority.
(d) On April 1st each year, the Company will issue a seniority list
showing those persons who have attained seniority. The list shall be posted in conspicuous places throughout the plant, and a copy delivered to the Chief Steward, stewards and three (3) local officers at the plant, with a supplementary correction list each three (3) months thereafter. when an employee completes the probationary period and attains seniority, as defined under Section
1	of this Article, the Union will be advised by the end of the payroll week next following.
10.2	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited and there is no obligation to rehire when (s)het
(a)	voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or is discharged for cause;
or
(b)	fails to return to work when called, or cannot be located after a reasonable effort on the part of the Company. A registered letter directed to his/her last known address with a copy to the Union, shall constitute reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The employee shall within five (5) working days (if the address is in
13
the city in which the plant is located) or seven (7) days (if the address is outside the city in which the plant is located) of the date of such notice notify the Company with respect thereto, and in such event the employee shall return to work within a reasonable time to be determined by the Company and the Union.
(This clause shall not apply to work of a temporary nature of less than ten (10) days duration.)
In cases where it is necessary to secure workers in less time than the required notice the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may7 recall the next senior employee, and so on down the list, until the vacancies are filled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time (s)he shall be given the work for which the next senior employee was recalled; or
(c)
has been on lay-off for a period longer than the time allowed in the following schedule:
Length of Allowable
Length of Seniority	Time off
at Date of Lay-off	company Payroll
Lees than two years	Equivalent to length of service
with a minimum of 6 months
Over two years	2 years
(d) Fails to return to work after any leave of absence (including
illness or injury) unless a satisfactory reason is given by the employee, supported by appropriate'documentation.
10.3	If an employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness (js).he shall accumulate seniority while off work, up to the time limits set out under Article 10, section 2, Subsection (c), except that an employee with two or more years service shall accumulate seniority for a period equivalent to his/her length of service up to a maximum of four years, and shall be returned to the job previously held or to a job carrying a rate equal to that previously held subject to seniority providing (B)he can perform the required work satisfactorily. If the employee would not otherwise have retained his/her previous job and is not placed on a job carrying an equal rate of pay, (s)he shall, subject to seniority be placed on a job (s)he can satisfactorily perform. Application for reinstatement after the expiry of the allowable period shall be considered on its merits.
10.4	It will be the responsibility of each employee to keep the Company and the Union advised at all times of his/her current address and telephone number, either temporary or permanent.
10.5	EFFECTIVE! APRIL 1, 1992
(1) A student employee is an employee who is registered full time in a recognized educational institution and who is hired by the Company
- 14 -
to replace vacationing full time employees, and they will be classified as student employees and will be identified to the Union. No student may be hired while any regular employee is laid off.
(ii) Student employees shall be employees as contemplated by the collective agreement, except that:
(a) A student will not work more than twenty-two (22) weeks cumulative, in any calendar year, or one hundred and ten (110) scheduled days in any calendar year.
(iii)	Students may apply prior to their date of termination to become regular employees and if accepted will be given full credit for rates of pay and seniority accumulated to the last date worked as a student so long as their service/seniority is not broken.
article 11 - Transfers
11.1	Permanent Transfer.
In the event of an employee being transferred from one department to another (s)he shall retain his/her seniority in the original department until four (4) months have elapsed except that where such a transfer is due to promotion through posting of a preferable vacancy as set out in Article 12, Section 1, his/her seniority shall be transferred to the new department immediately. After the expiration of four (4) months in the new department his/her seniority shall be transferred to that department, unless within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the four (4) month period the employee signifies in writing to the Management that his/her seniority in the original department be maintained. When a vacancy occurs in the original department the senior employee who has signified his/her wish will be returned before an employee with lees seniority is placed on such work.
11.2	Temporary Transfer. When a temporary transfer is made from one department to another or to an off shift from within the same department, the Company will transfer the employee with the least seniority, always having regard to the requirements of the business and the ability of the employee to do the required work satisfactorily.
Where an employee is permanently transferred to another department and is consistently thereafter returned temporarily to perform the job in his/her previous department because of his/her qualifications to perform the work, (s)he may express his/her dissatisfaction with such transfers and the Company will, subject to seniority, make a reaeonable effort to obtain a replacement who can satisfactorily perform the work or train another employee who possesses suitable qualifications and can qualify within a reasonable period for such temporary transfer.
11.3 Written applications submitted to the Management, on the appropriate form, a copy of which shall go to the Union, will be accepted from employees with six (6) months seniority, who are regularly employed on the night shift, indicating their desire to transfer to work on the day
- 15 -
shift, or from employees regularly employed on the day shift, indicating their desire to transfer to work on the night shift, so that employees applying can be considered along with other senior employees who have suitable qualifications, When a suitable opening arises, consideration of transfer will be baaed on seniority, for applications that have been on file for one Cl)month or more, always having regard to the ability of the employee to perform the available work and the requirements of the Company to conduct its operations in an efficient and orderly manner.
ARTICLE 12 - Promotion and Job Posting
12.1	Promotion within the bargaining unit shall be based on ability, merit and seniority. Ability and merit being sufficient, seniority shall prevaTT. Employees accepting promotion will be allowed a reasonable time in which to qualify.
Preferable vacancies will be posted for six (6) full working days so that employees applying will be Considered along with other senior employees who have suitable qualifications. Such vacancies will be filled a.s set out in the first paragraph of this section. Employees filling such vacancies will be allowed a reasonable time in which to qualify and if it is determined the employee cannot qualify, (s)he will be returned to his/her previous job if (s)he so desires. All jobs will be awarded within forty-five (45) working days after closing of the posting period.
Any employee who has been granted a promotion under Article 12.1 will be precluded from making application for another position posted under this provision for a period of 12 months firm the date (s)he was awarded the position.
A job vacancy occurs when an employee leaves the Bargaining Unit after having been employed for at least twelve (12) months since his/her last date of hire.
12.2	Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article 12 and of Article 11, suitable modified duties or alternate work arrangements may be reserved for employees who have physical restrictions, and those situations so reserved are not to be filled in accordance with the provisions of Articles 11 and 12:
a)	Employees returning from occupational injury and who require a modification of duties in the short term shall present the appropriate medical documentation to the Company advising of the physical restrictions that apply. The Company will then determine if suitable duties are available and discuss the matter with the Local Union.
b)	For those employees who require modified duties in the long term, they will likewise advise the Company of their limitations supported by appropriate medical documentation. The Company will determine what if any suitable positions are available and will
- 16 -
discuss the matter with the Local Union.
Employees who are accommodated under this provision, 12.2 a), shall not be considered to be permanently assigned to the position or tasks they take up during the recovery period and shall be returned to their regular duties once they have completed the predetermined recovery period.
12.3	The provisions of Article 12, Section 1, shall not apply in the appointment of group leaders as defined under Schedule "A" 10.
ARTICLE 13 ~ Leave of Absence
13.1	Leave of absence w i 11 be granted to an employee who provides written request :
a)	At least one (1) weeks in advance of the date leave is to commence when leave is requested as a result of the employee's appointment or election to a full-time Union position.
b)	At least two (2) weeks in advance of the date leave is to commence when leave is requested as a result of the employee's election to a full-time position to a School Board, Civic Council, Federal Parliament, Provincial Legislature, the Manitoba Federation of Labour, or the Canadian Labour Congress, with the proviso that the total number of employees applying for leave under this Section
13.1	shall not exceed two (2) at any one time.
Employees requesting leave shall advise the Company of the length of such leave at the time of application for leave. In the event that additional leave is required, it shall be again given in writing indicating the commencement and termination of such leave, and it shall be renewed.
In the event that the employee wishes to return to the employment of the Company, that employee shall notify the Company in writing of that intent at least one (l)month prior to the date (s)he is to return. Employees on leave under this Section shall not accumulate seniority and upon returning to the Company, their seniority' date shall-be adjusted accordingly.
13.2	Employees chosen by the Union to attend to Union business outside the
plant shall be granted leave of absence not exceeding sixty (60) days providing that the absence of each such employee shall not unreasonably affect the operation of his/her department. Such leave w i 11 be extended up to a maximum of a further thirty (30) days upon reapplioation by the employee. Seniority shall continue to accumulate during such period of leave of absence.	’	‘
Unless otherwise agreed, the maximum number of employees permitted on leave of absence at any one time, including for negotiations, will be seven (7).
17
x3.3 Leave of absence may be granted t o an employee by the Company for g.QO< and sufficient reason upon application by the employee provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the requirements of the business. If leave of absence is for a period of one (l)week or troe, written application shall be made by the employee to the Company, and if the leave is granted by the Company, it shall be confirmed in writing and a copy thereof sent to the Secretary of the Union. Seniority shall accumulate through periods of such leave of absence.
The Union will be advised of the final disposition of all written applications for leave of absence.
13.4	Maternity Leave. Every employee who haa completed six (6) months
seniority who applies for leave, in writing, at least four (4) weeks prior to the day she intends to take leave supported by a medical certificate from her doctor which certifies that she is pregnant and specifies the estimated date of delivery shall be granted a maternity leave of seventeen (17) weeks duration from the actual date of delivery or the date leave yyas requested:
a)	In the event that delivery occurs after the leave commences, then the period between the date of leave and the date of delivery shall be added to the leave.
b)	An employee may apply for additional leave of nine (9) weeks which
will be granted, however, in no case will the request for leave exceed twenty-six (26) weeks. ' -	'
c)	Employees on such leave will upon the expiry of the leave be reinstated in the position she occupied at the time her leave commenced or in a comparable position with not less than the same wage6 and benefits.
d)	Seniority shall accumulate through such periods of leave.
Parental Leave. Every employee who has completed six (6) months seniority, who applies for leave, in writing, at least four (4) weeks prior to the date (s)he intends to take leave supported by appropriate documentation shall be granted a Parental Leave of seventeen (17) weeks if:
a) (i) in the case of a female employee, becomes the natural mother of a child,
(ii) in the case of a male employee, becomes the natural father of a child or assumes actual case and custody of his newborn child, or
(iii) (s)he adopts a child under the law of a province; and '
b) Parental Leave must commence no later than the first anniversary of the birth or adoption of the child or of the date on which the child comes into actual care and custody of the employee.
Employees on such leave will upon the expiry of the leave be reinstated in the position (s)he occupied at the time his/her leave
- 18 -
d)
commenced or in a comparable position with not less than the same wages and benefits.
Seniority shall accumulate through such periods of leave.
Employees who wish to take parental leave upon completion of a maternity leave must take both leaves continuously, without break, unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the employee and management.
13.5	Jury Duty & Subpoena Pay. The Company shall continue to pay an employee for scheduled hours at his/her regular hourly rate for time (s)he is away when summoned to appear or required to serve jury duty or when (S)he has been served with a subpoena issued by the Crown to appear in a court of Law. Within one (1) month of the employee's return to work (s) he will reimburse the Company the full amount of any court fees received from the Government. It is understood that the employee will report to work during regular hours that (S)he is not required to attend court and may be required to produce a certificate of service from the court office if requested by the Company.
13.6	Funeral.
a) where an employee is absent to arrange or attend the funeral of a sister, brother, husband, wife, son, daughter, grandfather, grandmother, grandchild, mother or mother-in-law, father or father-in-law (S)he shall receive pay at his/her regular hourly rate for scheduled hours lost on three (3) scheduled days ending with the second day after the funeral.
b) When an employee is unable to attend the funeral of an immediate relative due to geographical limitations, (B)he shall receive 8 hours pay at his/her regular rate for the day of the funeral. Such payment will be made only in respect to the absence from work on one of his/her regularly scheduled work days. For the purpose of 13.6(b) an immediate relative will mean wife, husband, daughter, son, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law. The employee will be required to furnish verification of the date of the funeral to the Company. Where an unusual circumstance exists with respect to the funeral of said relative, then the employee may present these circumstances to the Company for review. The Company may then, at its discretion, agree to pay the eight (8) hours pay under this section for an appropriate day of mourning.
13.7	Medical Aid An employee, injured while performing his/her work, who leaves for medical aid arranged through the plant nurse or a Company official shall be paid the difference between Workers Compensation \ benefits and pay for his/her scheduled hours lost*	\
(a)	on the day of the accident and/or
(b)	up to a maximum of three (3) subsequent absences occurring within six (6) calendar weeks of such accident.
The foregoing provisions shall also apply to an employee injured while performing overtime work and in such case (s) he shall be paid for the
19
balance of those overtime hours (s)he would have worked had (B)he not been injured.
ARTICLE 14 - Lay-off and Rehire
14.1 An employee with seniority may not be laid off unless it iB found that there is no job available for which such employee is qualified. The Management shall decide as to the availability of a job and the qualifications of an employee, subject to the right of appeal by the Union under the provisions of the Grievance Procedure.

14.2	In the avant of reduction of staff and rehiring of employees seniority shall apply, provided the employee with the greater amount of seniority can satisfactorily perform the job (S)he is assigned to, or can learn the job within a reasonable time. However, in the rehiring of employees if the job is one requiring immediate qualifications then the Company may recall the senior employee possessing the necessary qualifications.
14.3	The Company shall advise the Union when a lay-off is about to occur and shall on the day of issuance of lay-off notice give the Union a list indicating the name and department of all employee8 affected. Similarly the Company shall on the day of rehire give the Union a list of all those employees to be rehired. Likewise the Union will also be advised of all deletions or additions to the bargaining unit payroll, in writing, on a monthly basis.
a) The Company will provide a list on daily absenteeism, for each day, to the Chief Steward.
14.4	In the case of lay-off employees shall be given one( 1) working day's notice for every completed six (6) months seniority, with a maximum notice of five (5) working days and with a minimum notice of two (2) working days. If the Company determines that additional work is available at the time any lay-off notice is to become effective, the lay-off notice shall be extended to senior employees then on lay-off notice provided they have the necessary qualifications to perform the required work satisfactorily. If the extension of the lay-off notice exceeds seven (7) working days, it will be canceled.
In the case of recall of an employee for work of less than ten (10) days duration, the requirements in respect; of notice of lay-off shall not apply provided the employee and the Union are given notice at the time of recall that such work is of a temporary nature. Employees shall be laid off from such work in order of seniority.
14.5	Employees whom the Company wishes to^traln for^j^eryisacy, technical or commercial positions outside of the bargaining unit may be retained in employment without being subject to the lay-off provision of the , Agreement for a period of two (2) years. One (1) month's notice will be given to the Union before a selected employee becomes a trainee. The number of such employees at any one time shall not exceed 1% of the number of employees in the bargaining unit.
20
V
ARTICLE 15 - VACATION
15.1	Vacation for an employee hired after January let, 1947, shall be calculated to and in recognition of service ending with a cut-off date of April 1st each year, and such employee shall become entitled to his/her first vacation not exceeding one (l)week on April 1st in the calendar year next following the date (s)he was hired. Ch each April
1	st thereafter (s)he shall become entitled to a regular annual vacation.
15.2	Vacation for those hired prior to January let, 1947, Shall be calculated to and in recognition of service to the seniority anniversary date occurring in the calendar year of vacation which shall be referred to as the cut-off date, but this is not intended to limit regular annual vacations to the period after the seniority anniversary date.
15.3	The duration of the vacation shall be based on the length of seniority service on December 31st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be granted, a5 follows!	\
Length of Seniority
1 year and less than 5 years 5 years and leas than 10 years 10 years and less than 20 years 20 years and lese than 24 years 24 years and lese than 30 years 30 years and over
Length of
Vacation
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
7	weeks

	
	o V-
o ‘ "	o'*
o‘$	'ft1
i	
9*°	
c. ^	
	A
NOTE:
On April 1st, 1992 19 years shall replace the current 20 years in the above schedule where it occurs.
15.4	Each employee shall taka his/her vacation during the calendar year in
which (a) he becomes entitled t o it except as provided in section 15.6 of this Article. Vacations m^ be given at any time during the year subject to the demands of the business. The Company shall make every reaeonable effort to meet the wishes of the employees in allocating vacation periods, preference being given to those with the greateat. jeniority.,____
15.5	Where an employee is entitled to four (4) or more weeks vacation, those weeks of vacation in excess of three (3) shall be taken at a time other than during the months of June to September inclusive.
15.6	An employee eligible for four (4) or more weeks of vacation may, by prior arrangement with his/her Production supervisor, accumulate those
weeks of vacation in excess of three (3) from year to year to be taken at a later time convenient to the company, taking into account the wishes of the employee. Such accumulated vacations may be taken only as full weeks or multiples thereof.
15.7	Vacation pay shall be granted to an employee at the time (a)he leaves on his/her vacation.
15.8	If one of the Paid Holidays stipulated in Schedule "B11 hereof falls
21
within the vacation period assigned to or chosen by an employee, the Company will, at the discretion of such employee;
(a)	Pay eight (8) hours pay at the employee's regular hourly rate for such Paid Holiday at the time the employee leaves on his/her vacation. This shall be in addition to vacation pay provided in Section 15.9 of this Article, or
(b)	If advised by the employee at least two (2) calendar weeks prior to his/her vacation period, grant the employee an alternate day off, with eight (8) hours pay at his/her regular hourly rate, in place of the Paid Holiday to be taken at a time mutually agreeable between the Company and the employee.
In the event the employee elects option (b) but does work on the day agreed upon as his/her alternate day off, it shall be considered as work performed on a Paid Holiday and the employee shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Article 8, section 9,
15.9	Vacation pay for each week of vacation for hourly rated employees shall be the basic weekly hours at the regular hourly rate pro-rated on the number of weeks of earnings for which vacation pay has not been granted in the twelve (12) months (for first vacation the full period of service) immediately preceding the cut-off date. Leave of absence not exceeding four (4) weeks shall be regarded as weeks of earnings, In the case of illness certified by a practicing physician or surgeon an employee, upon his/her return to the service of the company, shall receive vacation credit due to illness up to four (4) weeks annually or such longer period as an employee may be entitled to receive Weekly Indemnity under the Sickness and Accident Plan. An employee upon his/her return to the service of the Company after a compensable accident shall be granted up to one year's vacation credits as if earnings had been received.
(i)	An employee, upon her return to the service of the company after a maternity leave, under Article 13 Section 4 shall be granted vacation credits for the period of such leave as if earnings had been......received.^__
15.10	Except where otherwise provided by legislation an employee who is
discharged for cause forfeits his/her vacation privileges accumulated since his/her last cut-off date, but in the case of an employee who leaves the service of the Company for reasons other than being diecharged for cause, and (s)he has had more than four (4) months service, (s)he shall receive vacation pay up to the date of leaving calculated back to the last cut-off date for which (s)he has already received vacation pay. (For an employee who leaves before his/her first cut-off date the calculation shall be made back to the date (s)he was employed.) The employee may request the Company in writing to hold his/her vacation pay for a period of up to three (3) months but in no case shall such period extend beyond Decanber 15th in the year of separation.
22
15.11	When an employee leaves the service at the normal retirement age before the cut-off date in that year, the period between retirement and the cut-off date shall be regarded as weeks of earnings for purposes of Section 15.9 of this Article.
15.12	Where vacation with pay is greater under provincial legislation, it | shall replace the foregoing.
15.13	When an employee is injured in a non-oocupational accident or becomes sick while on vacation (s)he can become eligible for the weekly indemnity benefit as set out in the Sickness and Accident Plan provided:
(a)	(S)He deposits with the Company the vacation pay for the unexpired portion of his/her vacation.
(b)	(S)He furnishes a certificate of medical attendance satisfactory to the Canada Life Assurance Company.
(c)	(S)He takes the remainder of his/her vacation at a time granted latex in the same calendar year.
In case of sickness, no payment (weekly indemnity or vacation pay) will be made during the waiting period prescribed in the Sickness and Accident Plan.
15.14	Where an employee returns to work due to an emergency while (s)h@ is on vacation (s)he will be entitled to the provieions of Schedule "B", Section 6 for each calendar day (S)he reports to work, or alternatively (s)he may arrange with his/her Production Supervisor to take an alternate day off for each such calendar day, during the same calendar year, at a time mutually agreeable to both the Company and the employee.
ARTICLE 16 - General
\
16.1	No Harassment. The Company and the Union agree that no form of sexual \ and/or general harassment shall be condoned in the workplace. Both	\
parties will work together in recognizing and resolving such concerns as' they arise. Situations involving sexual and/or general harassment will be treated in strict confidence by both the Company and the Union.
(a)	Any employee who proceeds under this section shall elect to utilize either Section 16.1 (b) of this Agreement or the remedy offered under the Human Rights Act but not both remedies. Any employee electing to utilize this section of this Agreement agrees to be bound by the outcome of the grievance and arbitration procedures.
In the event that an employee exhausts this grievance procedure and obtains a different outcome by going to the Human Rights Commission on the same issue, this section of the Agreement shall be automatically removed and can not be used in future by any other employee covered by this Agreement.
(b)	All grievances filed alleging harassment will be introduced at the
23
third step of the grievance procedure.
(C) Anyone found guilty of sexual harassment be disciplined up to and including discharge. In no event will the victim be
transferred but, if warranted and deemed necessary, the harasser \ U will be transferred.
(d)	Other than harassment as defined under the Human Rights Act,
general harassment shall be defined as a repeated mistreatment of employees in a derogatory, insulting or condescending manner.
General harassment in this section does not include giving direction, reprimanding employees, or correcting employee's behavior.
16.2	Protective Services. In the event of any strike, walkout or stoppage of work, the Union shall not do or permit to be done anything by any of its members to prevent powerhouse staff such as firemen, engineers, and an electrician from continuing all or any part of their regular duties in the service of the company. Furthermore, the Union shall cooperate and assist the Company in taking reasonable precautions to protect perishable products, but such assistance shall only extend through such period as the Company does not attempt to restore regular production.
3,6.3	Laundry. The free laundry service for employees' work clothes shall be
, continued and the Company will make necessary repairs to such work
clothes where they are of the overall apparel type available through the
\ Company's stores department.
\
\
16/4 Company stores. Working apparel and equipment purchased by employees at :;the Company's stores shall be sold at cost, Deductions for apparel or ectuipment purchased by a new employee shall be made out of the first two wage payments due such employee.
16.5	Safety. In order to provide safe and hygienic working conditions for all _ employees, the Company agrees that the minimum acceptable standard for the safety and health of its employees will be as provided in the Manitoba.health, and safety legislation and accident prevention regulations.
The provisions for the safety committee shall be maintained as outlined in the Company safety policy. The Company shall provide safety equipment free of charge t o employees whose work makes it desirable in the interest of safety to use such equipment. The employee8 shall use and. assume responsibility for the reasonable care of all safety equipment supplied to them. In the event that such safety equipment is lost or is not returned on demand, the company shall be entitled to deduct the cost of same from the employee's wages. It is understood that the said safety equipment shall not be deemed to include such personal necessities as overalls, or any other article which become the personal property of the employee.
(a) Each Union member of the Health and Safety Committee will receive sixteen (16) hours paid education leave per year with the nature of the course(s) to be determined jointly by the company and the
24
Union.
(b) Right to Refuse In situations where an employee has reasonably	I
grounds to believe and does believe that the particular work in	'
dangerous to his/her safety or health the employee shall first report his/her concerns to his/her immediate supervisor. If immediate action to correct the situation is not taken or if the employee is told that corrective action is not necessary but never the less continues to believe that the particular work is dangerous to his/her safety or health the employee shall be entitled to refuse to perform that particular work until such time that a person from the appropriate government agency has come to the employer's operation to inspect the particular work first hand. During this time period the employee may be assigned to alternative duties that may be available within the plant. Payment for the above noted time period will not be made if the employee refuses to perform alternative duties.
Employees with more than six (6) months seniority who purchase safety footwear through the Company for use on the job, shall receive an allowance of up to forty-five dollars ($45.00) towards such purchase. Employees with less than six (6) months seniority who purchase such footwear shall be reimbursed up to forty-five dollars ($45.00) towards such purchase on attainment of six (6) months seniority. For a subsequent purchase, employees will again became eligible for this allowance one year from the date of their previous purchase under this provision.
Effective Apri 1 1, 1992, the $45.00 boot allowance shall increase to $50.00.
Effective April 1, 1993, the $50.00 boot allowance shall Increase to $55.00.
16.6	Bulletin Boards. The Company shall designate bulletin board8 for the use of the Union at conspicuous places throughout the plant. All bulletins shall be submitted to the management for approval before posting, save and except routine notices calling Union meetings posted by officers of the Union who are employees of the Company. The Union shall provide a lock for the above provided bulletin board and ensure that management has a key for the lock provided by the Union. As well the Union shall ensure that the bulletin board is kept current and neat.
16.7	Tools.
(a)	The present practice for sharpening of tools will continue.
(b)	The company will supply tools to employees engaged in the maintenance department to replace worn out or broken tools which are to be turned into the Company stores at the time of such replacement. With the advance of technology, the Company recognizes the need for better and improved tools and will agree to such purchases where it deems necessary. It is recognized that employees of the maintenance department require tools in varying
25 -
degrees in the performance of their work which will involve varying replacements but no replacements and purchases shall exceed fifty-five dollars ($55.00) for any one employee in a contract year. Ary unused portion of this maximum amount may be carried over to the following contract year but such carry-over shall not exceed the total maximum allowance for the year.
16.8	Licences, The Company shall reimburse the employees for the renewal of necessary licences required in the performance of their duties.
16.9	Clothing, clothing specified under the present plan will be issued without charge to employees who have attained seniority and the Company will establish regulations in respect thereto. In addition where the Company determines rubber boots are required by an employee for the performance of his/her duties, the Company will pay one-half (1/2) the cost of the first pair and the full cost of all necessary replacements.
Employees with more than six (6) months seniority, who purchase wind protective clothing (including vest or liner) through the Company, for use on the job, shall receive an allowance of twenty dollars ($20.00), (to increase to twenty-five dollars ($25.00) April 1, 1992), towards such purchase. Employees with leas than six (6) months seniority who purchase such clothing shall be reimbursed up to twenty dollars ($20.00) (to increase to twenty-five dollars ($25.00) April 1, 1992) towards the said purchase, on attainment of six (6) months of seniority. For a subsequent purchase employees will again become eligible for this allowance three (3) years from the date of their previous purchase under this provision. Laundering of such clothing shall be the responsibility of the employee.
The Company will confirm clothing presently issued without charge to employees under Article 16, Section 9. It is further understood the Company will continue the practice of issuing freezer coats and freezer caps to employees regularly employed in the freezer.
16.10	The Company will provide a filing cabinet and a wall/desk or other work surface for the use of Local Union Officials.
• L
ARTICLE 17 - Severance Pay	-v \
17.1	If the Company deems it necessary to clos.e the plant or a substantial portion of the plant resulting in the permanent termination of service of employees therein, or where an employee is eligible under Article 19, notice at least equal to, but not in addition to, that provided in Article 14, Section 4 hereof with minimum notice of one (l)month, shall be given to employees then on the payroll. The guaranteed payment a8 set out in Article 9 hereof shall apply during the period of such notice. A list of employees affected by the closure will be given to the Union concurrent with the issuance of notice.
17.2	Such employees whose service is permanently terminated because of such closure shall receive severance pay in accordance with the table set out in this Article, but no such payment will be made to:
- 26 -
(a)	except as provided under Article 19, an employee with less than one
(1) year's seniority.
(b)	an employee granted retirement on pension.
an employee discharged for cause within the period of notice.
(d)	an employee who applies for a vacancy in another plant of the Company and is hire d by that plant.
(e)	an employee who has been on lay-off under Article 14, Section 4, for a period of thirty (30) calendar days or more prior to the date of notification of closure.
17.3	Severance pay shall not apply:
(a)	where close down results from Queen's enemies, insurrection, government action, atomic fallout, Acts of God or any other cause beyond the Company's control; or
(b)	where close down follows, or is caused through any strike, walkout, stoppage, slowing down or other cessation of work.
17.4	Whai an employee receives severance pay, all his/her rights and
privileges including seniority cease excepting his/her option rights under the Pension and Life Insurance Plan and the Sickness and Accident Plan in respect to termination of service.
17. S The scale of severance pay shall be as follows t Years of Completed
Seniority at Closing Date	Amount
1
2
3
4
5
6 7
a
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21
$	480
480 680 880 1,080 1,280
1.480 1,680 1,880 2,080 2,420 2,760 3,100 3,440 3,780 4,120 4,460 4,800 5,140
5.480 5,890
27
3.20 3.28
18.2 Grade for New or Changed Jcb. The Company w i 11 establish the grade for a new or changed job by comparing the job with similar jobs already contained in the Schedule of Grades. If there is no comparable job included in the Schedule cf Grades, the Company will in the establishment of the grade consider rates paid for the same or similar jobs in other meat processing plants.
12
13
96
1.04
26
27
2.08
2.16
The Plant Management will send written advice of the established grade to the Chief Steward of the Local Union.
Within fifteen (15) calendar days of notification described in the preceding paragraph, and upon objection by the Local Union to the newly established grade, the Management will discuss the matter with the Unit Chairperson or his/her designate. If the matter is not settled within fifteen (15) calendar days after such discussion it will be referred in writing for further review, such written notice to contain a submissidn i in support of the objection to the newly established grade.
If the matter is not settled within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date af written notice, the parties shall appoint a qualified consultant v in Job Evaluation to determine the grade and his/her decision shall be final and binding. The expense of such consultant will be shared equally by the Company and the Union.
If the parties cannot agree on the appointment of a qualified consultant in Job Evaluation then proceedings will be taken under the fourth step of Article 4. In assessing the grade established by the company for the new cr changed jcb, the arbitration board shall consider the factors set out in the first paragraph of this section in reaching its decision.
18.3	Application of Rates. Provisions respecting the application of rates are set out in Schedule "A" attached hereto and form part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 19 - Methods and Improvement6
19.1	The Company continually strives to improve methods and costs and in doing so will purchase and install new and improved equipment. Such installments shall constitute a Technological Change.
19.2	In the event that a Technological Change is contemplated by the Company/
the Company shall notify the Union sixty (60) days prior to the implementation of the Technological Change.	i
19.3	The Company and the Union shall discuss the Technological Change and the impact it will have on the employees in the Bargaining Unit.
i) If it is determined that employees will be adversely affected, then the Union and the Company may enter into an agreement on the matter of those employees affected and the disposition of their situation.
- 29 -
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
6,300
6,710
7,120
7,530
7,940
8,350
8,760
9,170
9,580
10,025
10,470
10,915
11,360
11,805
12,250
12,695
13,140
13,585
14,030
Employees whose combined age and years of service, as set out above, total 65 will be entitled to a supplement of $2,600.00 plus an additional $150.00 for each year the combined total exceeds 65.
ARTICLE 18 - Wages
18.1 Labour rates and Schedule of Grades.
(a)
i)
ii > iii) iv) V) vi)
Labour rates	„
On April let, 1991, the labour rate shall be $14.62. On October 1st, 1991, the labour rate shall be $14.87 On April 1st, 1992, the labour rate shall be $15.12 On October 1st, 1992, the labour rate shall be $15.37 On April 1st, 1993, the labour rate shall be $15.62 On October 1st, 1993, the labour rate shall be $15.87

(b)
Schedule of Grades
The Schedule of Grades in effect on April 1st, 1991 shall be as
follows*
Cents Per Hour Above the Labour Grade
0	09
1	8
2 16
3	24
4	32
5	40
6	48
7	56
8	64
9	72 10 80 11 a0
14S1.12 4§/1.20 16 1.28
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
1.36
1.44
1.52
1.60
1.68
1.76
1.84
1.92
2.00
28	$2.24
29	2.32
30	2.40
31	2.48
32	2.56
33	2.64
34	2.72
35	2.80
36	2.88
37	2.96
38	3.04
39	3.12
3.36
3.44
3.52
- 28 -
ii) In the event that agreement cannot be reached under 19,3 i) above, then senior employees will be transferred to a position for which they have sufficient qualifications.
a)	Employees who are transferred to a position which causes a reduction in their job sate shall have that reduction apply as per the provisions of Schedule "A” 7.
b)	In the event that an employee with five (5) years of seniority or more is displaced and cannot be accommodated under Article 19, Section 19,3 i) and ii) a), then that employee will be eligible for provisions of Article 17.
19.4 This Article shall supercede the provisions of Technological Change as prescribed by the Labour Relations Act of Manitoba.
(
19.5 If an employee alleges that there has been an unreasonable increase in
his/her work, the Union request that the matter be reviewed with the Company. Representatives of the Union (not to exceed two) and, if desired, a full time staff representative of the Union may meet with Plant Management to discuss the facts of the case and endeavour to resolve the issue. The employee concerned be present at these meetings if bo desired by the employee or by either party.
ARTICLE 20 - Health and Welfare Plana / Pension Plan / Dental Plan
20.1	The Company agrees to provide the following levels of benefits listed below, as provided by the Canada Life Insurance Company, with the Plan Text being the governing document and the Rules of Application residing with Canada Life Insurance Company. Said Plan w i 11 be amended as mutually agreed and remain in effect for the term of this Agrement.
Any employee file and pursue a grievance under Articles 4 and 5 of this Agreement if (-s)he is not satisfied with the decision of Canada Life Insurance Company. The arbitrator or arbitration board shall be guided exclusively by the Plan Text and medical evidence presented by the parties.
The decision of the arbitrator or arbitration board shall. be binding upon the grievor and the Company and Canada Life Insurance Company.
20.2	The Company shall pay the full premium cost toward8 all Long Term Disability / Major Medical / Group Life Insurance / Vision Care Plan / Health Care / Dental / Pension Plans.
20.3	Summary of the Canada Life Health and Welfare Plans
(ifany dispute arises in regard to the following summary, the official Plan Text shall be the governing document)
Eligibility in the Plan
1
i

O At •'
' 'inP
Applicable to an employee who is employed by Burns Keats, a division of Bums Foods Limited, at Winnipeg, and who is a member of the United Food
30
and Commercial Workers Union, Local 832.
Eligibility Rules
Employees are eligible on the first day of the year (in (i) or the first day of the month in (ii) or (iii)) that they have completed at leasts
(i)	one (1) year of seniority service, with respect to the life insurance, and
(ii)	the Long Term Disability Benefit, and
(iii) three (3) months of seniority service with respect to the Short Term Disability Benefit and Extended Health Care Benefit.
If an employee is not actively at work on the date on which (S)he first becomes eligible for the Long Term Disability Benefit, (s)he will have to complete an additional two (2) months of Seniority service before (S)he again will become eligible for the Long Term Disability Benefit.
20,4	Weekly Indemnity (Short Term Disability)
Elimination Period
0 days for disability due to an accident,
4 days for disability due to sickneBS or pregnancy, unless during such 4
days the employee becomes confined in a hospital, in which case the
elimination 'periodwill be equal to the period prior to the commencement of the hospital confinement.
Maximum Benefit Period
26 weeks, with respect to an employee who has completed less than 5 years of seniority service
39 weeks, with respect to an employee who ha6 completed at least 5 years but less than 10 years of seniority service
52 weeks, with respect to an employes who has completed at least 10 years of seniority service.
Weekly Indemnity Benefit
60% of the errployee' s hourly rate of earnings which was applicable to him/her immediately prior to his/her disability, multiplied by 40, rounded to the next higher multiple of $1.00, but, for the purposes of this calculation, such earnings will not exceed the maximum weekly insurable earnings as amended from time to time. A change in the amount of an errployee' s Weekly Indemnity Benefit due to a change in earnings will take effect automatically unless the change in earnings would result in an increase in his/her weekly Indemnity Benefit as (s)he is not then Actively at Work, in which case the change will be deferred until (S) he returns to work as an errployee.
(i)
(ii) (iii)
31

The Company will continue to pay the first five dollars ($5.00) of each monthly premium for the weekly indemnity benefits, with the balance of each monthly premium t o be shared equally between the company and the employee. - ’
Where the employee portion of the required sick pay premium in Pay Grade Category 1 exceeds $25.00, and proportionately in Pay Grade Categories
2,3,4	and 5, the Company will pay the full amount af such excess premiums.
If a premium reduotion is subsequently implemented, the full amount of the reduction will apply to the Company portion until such portion is reduced to $29.00 for Pay Grade Category 1, and proportionately for Pay Grade categories 2,3,4 and 5. Ary premium reduction below this level will be applied according to the cost-sharing provision above.
20.5 Dental Plan
Eligible Expenses
(!) Class A, with the following
exceptions and restrictions
-	a full mouth series of x-rays with respect to primary dentition, mixed dentition or edentulous mouths will not be covered
-	bite-wing x-rays will be limited to single, two, three or four films
-	polishing of teeth without sealing will not be covered
-	self-administration of
anti-cariogenic agent will not be covered
-	stainless steel crowns will not be covered

(ii)	Class B, with the following exceptions and restrictions
-	surgical procedure of flap approach with curettage of osseous defect used in conjunction with periodontic treatment will not be covered
-	the following endodontic procedures will not be covered
(a)	root canal therapy: primary tooth, one root or more
(b)	root canal therapy: pulpectomy, one root or more
(c)	root canal therapy: biomechanical preparation, one root or more
(d)	root canal therapy: chemotherapeutic treatment,
32
one root or mote
(e)	root canal therapy: obturation, one root or more
- the following surgical procedures will not be covered
(a)	removal of foreign body, skin or subcutaneous areolar tissue
(b)	removal of reaction producing foreign bodies, muscula-skeletal system
(c)	lingual freneotomy
(iii)	Class C
Dental Association Schedule of Fees:	1990
Deductible:	Nil
Class A CO-Insurance:	80%
Class B Co-Insurance:	80%
Class c Co-Insurance:	50%
Maximum Benefit Amount: $1,000 in a calendar year.
The Manitoba Dental Association Fee Schedule shall apply as follows:
a)	on April 1, 1991,	the	1991	Dental	Fee	Schedule
b)	on April 1, 1992,	the	1992	Dental	Fee	schedule
c)	on April 1, 1993,	the	1993	Dental	Fee	Schedule
20.6	Group Life Insurance
Life insurance shall be equal to one (1) time8 the employee's annual earnings in an amount based on the employee's hourly sate of earnings up to a maximum amount of insurance of fifty thousand ($50,000) dollars.
20.7	Pension Plan

(a)	Effective April 1, 1991, the Employer agrees to contribute to the Trust Fund of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan thirty-four (34) cents per hour paid (effectiveApril 1, 1992, forty-one (41) cents per hour paid and effective April 1, 1993, forty—seven (47) cents per hour paid) for all full-time employees who have completed 504 regular hours of service.
(b)	For the purpose of paragraph (a) above, hours paid means all regular hours worked and/or paid to employees.


?,
f /)■
r
33 -
, J

The said hours paid will include hours paid by the Employer for the time not worked because of vacations, paid holidays, bereavement leave, jury duty, to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
(Cy The Employer shall forward all contributions, together with a list of all full-time employees and the number of hours paid and worked for each employee in each reporting period, within fifteen (15) days following the end of the Employer's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period, as per current practice of remittance.
20.8 Long Term Disability Benefit
Definition of Disability Stringent definition of disability.
Elimination Period
182 days, with respect to an employee who has leas than 5 years of seniority service
(ii)	273 days,	with	respect	to an	employee who	has completed	at	least	5
years but	lese	than 10	years	of seniority	service
(iii)	365 days,	with	respect	t o an	employee who	has completed	at	least	10
years of seniority service
Long Term Disability Income Benefit
$1,100 per month. There will be no charge in the amount of Long Term	,|^
Disability Income Benefit during an employee's disability period.	,
. . . .
No employee who is in receipt of a benefit under the Pension and Group
Life Insurance Plan of Burn8 Foods Limited will be eligible to receive a
Long Term Disability Income Benefit.
The Employer to pay full premium coat of Long Term Disability Benefit 20.9 Extended Health Care Benefit
h. | n°y
''i ,	*
Eligible Expenses
gt-
\
(1) Drugs with the following exceptions: will not include contraceptive drugs.
(2)	Nursing Care - Part A
(3)	Ambulance, with the following exceptions and restrictions: Part A -Maximum of $75.00 during any one continuous period of disability, for each employee and each eligible dependent.
(4)	Services and supplies - Part A/fl/E,?,
(5)	Osteopathy or Chiropractic, with the following exceptions and restrictions:
34 -
Part A - maximum of 10 treatments per calendar year for each employee and each eligible dependent.
Maximum amount payable for treatment will be equal to the minimum amount specified for an office treatment by a physician in the Medical Association Schedule of fees for the province or territory in which the employee or eligible dependent resides.
(6)
(7)
(8)
- Part B - not applicable.
Visioncare, with the following exceptions and restrictions:
\
- Part A - maximum of $110.00 for one complete set of safety lenses / lenses and Safety Frames / frames during any 24 consecutive months, for each employee and eligiBl§ {iflj^^ent.
Hearing Aide, with the following restrictionss L
-	Maximum of $500.00, for each employee and each eligible dependent.
Hospital, with the following exceptions and restrictions:
-	Part A - not applicable
-	Part B - when incurred within the province or territory in which the employee or eligible dependent resides.
-	Part C - when incurred within the province or territory in which the employee or eligible dependent resides.
-	Part D - not applicable.
(9)	Out-patient Care, with the following exceptions and restrictionst
-	Maximum of $23.00 during one continuous period of disability for each employee and each eligible dependent.
(10)	Physician‘s Services.
(1 l)Diagnostic Tests,
Individual Deductible:	$ 25.00
Family Deductible:	$ 50.00
The individual deductible and family deductible are not applicable to Visioncare or Hearing Aid expenses.
CO-Insurance
-	With respect to Viaioncare and Hearing Aid expenses 100%
-	With respect to all other eligible expenses 85%
35
The Employer to pay the full premium cost of Extended Health Care Benefit.
20.10	Pregnancy
Group Insurance Benefits indicated above required because of illness or injury directly attibutable to pregnancy will be granted to employees under the same conditione as these benefits are granted to other employees.
20.11	Medical Certificates
The Company will forego the requirement of employees providing a medical certificate upon their return to work following short term illness or accident not coveted by Workers Compensation or under the company Sick Pay Plan.
It is understood by the parties that the matter of habitual and excessive absenteeism will continue to be treated as a disciplinary matter. In the event that disciplinary action is contemplated by the Company for habitual or excessive absenteeism, the employee may present a medical certificate to the Company in defense. Such medical information will be taken into consideration by the Company in assessing the disciplinary measures it may take.
ARTICLE 21 - Duration of Agreement
The term of this Agreement shall be from April 1, 19JL1 to March 31, 1994 and shall continue in force after March 31, 1994 on yearly basis, which in each instance of renewal shall be regarded as the term of the Agreement, until terminated by either party giving the other party not more than ninety (90) days, and not less than thirty (30) days, notice in writing prior to the expiration date. If amendments are contemplated by either party to become effective in the ensuing term, the party proposing such amendments shall give notice in writing thereof to the other party not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to March 31, 1994. During the period of negotiations this Agreement shall remain in force.
ARTICLE 22 - Application
The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be effective at the commencement of the payroll week next following the date the Company receives notification from the Union that this Agreement has been ratified, except as otherwise specifically provided.
This Agreement is signed by the duly authorized officers of United Food and Commercial Workers Local No. 832 , and by the authorized local Management of the Company, as evidencing their agrement to and concurrence in its terms.
36
SIGNED THIS	DAY OF
1991
BURNS MEATS	UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL
A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS (1985) LIMITED WORKERS LOCAL NO. 832 WINNIPEG, MANITOBA_____________ _____________________________________
37 -
SCHEDULE "A" - APPLICATION OF RATES
1,	The term "grade" shall mean the rate set down for labour operations
under the Company's schedule, provided however the following rates apply for the First twenty-four (24) months of earnings:
a) Effective April 1, 1991:
Starting Rate
Upon completion of twelve (12)months Upon completion of twenty-four (24) months Upon completion of thirty-six (36) months
$ 8.25 10.37 12.49 14.62^

b) Effective October 1, 1991:
Starting Rate
Upon completion of twelve (12)months upon completion of twenty-four (24) months Upon completion of thirty-six (36)months
$ 8.50 10.62 12.74 14.87^ '
c)	Effective April 1, 1992:
Starting Rate
Upon completion of twelve (12) months Upon completion of twenty-four (24) months Upon completion of thirty-six (36) months
$ 8.75 10.87 12.99 15.12
d)	Effective October 1, 1992:
Starting Rate
Upon completion of twelve (12) months Upon completion of twenty-four (24) months Upon completion of thirty-six (36) months
e)	Effective April 1, 1993:
Starting Rate
Upon completion of twelve (12) months Upon completion of twenty-four (24) months Upon completion of thirty-six (36) month8
$ 9.25 11.37
13.49	^
f)	Effective October 1, 1993:
Starting Rate
upon completion of twelve (12) months Upon completion of twenty-four (24) months Upon completion of thirty-six (36) months
g)	Twelve (12) months shall equal 52 weeks. In order for an employee to qualify Cor an increment they must work at least one day in each of the 52 weeks. For each week that an employee fails to work, at least one day, the 52 week period will be extended by that/those week(s).
Vacations shall count as days of work, as will written authorized leaves over which the company has control.
h)	The starting rate will apply to employees at time of hire,
with exception of those classified as improvers or above in the Mechanical. Department, and those hired in Fourth Class Shift
38
Engineers or above in the Powerhouse. The starting rate for these two departments shall be the labour rate provided, however, that the labour rate shall be reduced by nine (9) cents until the completion of six (6) weeks of earnings. Thereafter, the labour rate will be reduced by only four (4) cents until the completion of twelve (12) weeks of earnings. Earnings referred to above means earnings at least equal to the guaranteed payment in any fourteen (14) month period.
2.	The term "job rate" shall mean the hourly rate determined by a combination of grades of work regularly performed by the employee, and the job rate shall be rounded off to correspond to the nearest grade after calculating as follows:
(a)	The two highest grades covering work regularly performed by the employee shall be used; the highest at the actual time worked and the second highest for the remainder of the time worked.
(b)	When an employee spends 50% or more of his/her time on the highest grade, then the highest grade shall become the job rate.
3.	A new employee or a recalled employee ahall receive the j ob rate for the work to which (s) he is assigned when (s) he becomes qualified but such qualifying period shall not be longer than six (6) weeks.
4.	Permanent Transfer. Form 300 shall indicate a permanent transfer and a copy of same shall be given to the Chief Steward immediately after the employee is advised. If an employee is transferred permanently to work where the job rate is higher, (s)he shall receive the higher rate when (s)he becomes qualified, but for purposes of application of rates such qualifying period shall not exceed six (6 consecutive weeks, after which the higher job rate shall apply.
If an employee is permanently transferred to work where the job rate is lower, such lower rate shall start twelve (12) weeke, including lay-off, after the date of such transfer.
The twelve (12) week period set out in the foregoing paragraph shall be extended one (1) day for each day the employee is required to return temporarily to his/her previous higher rated work. Where the employee returns temporarily to his/her previous higher rated work for a period in excess of three (3) consecutive weeks, the twelve (12) week period set out in the foregoing paragraph will recommence when the employee is again transferred to the work where the job rate is lower.
a) Employees shall be given the opportunity to sign their form 300 whenever that form 300 i s issued or changed.
5.	Temporary Transfer. When an employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job (s)he shall receive the higher rate provided however that such higher rate shall not be used as part of the job rate referred to in Sections 2, 3, and 4 of this Article. The employee's regular job rate (Form 300) shall apply immediately such temporary assignment ceases. Form 301 shall indicate a temporary transfer and a copy of same
- 39 -
shall be given to the department steward. Where an employee Is kept on the same temporary assignment for a period of three (3) months the rate for such assignment shall be regarded as a permanent transfer under Section 4 above.
6.	If an employee at his/her own request is transferred permanently from work where the job rate is higher, the lower rate shall prevail immediately upon transfer.
7.
Where an employee is transferred to work where the job rate io lower aO a direct result of the introduction of new equipment or where an employee remains on a job reduced in value following a technological change, his/her rate shall not be reduced for a period of three (3) years, including lay-off, provided the employee accepts all opportunities for transfer to work where the job rate is higher. In the application of rates or adjustment of grades such an employee will not be paid a rate greater than the rate paid at time of transfer except for reasons of a general wage increase after date of transfer.
AO*-'


a
9
At the expiry of the three (3) year period set out above, the amount of rate reduction shall be limited to two (2) grades. At twelve (12) month intervals thereafter, further reductions of a maximum of two (2) grades shall take place until the lower rate prevails.
An employee whose schedule calls for work to commence at any time other than between 6 am. to 9 am inclusive shall receive a night shift premium of forty-five (45) cents per hour for all hours worked between 4 p.m. and 7 am, such premium to be continued for hours worked after 7 a.m. where the employee was entitled to the premium for hours immediately before 7 a.m. Such premium shall not be a part of his/her regular hourly job rate. Effective April 1, 1993 the forty-five (45) cents premium shall become fifty (50) cent si	—■	4 4	-
'	is 00*0
For scheduled hours worked between 12:01 AM on Saturday and midnight on Sunday, an employee shall receive one and one half (1 1/2) times his/her regular hourly rate. The foregoing shall not apply for any hours on Saturday or Sunday for which overtime or paid holiday rates are paid; nor does it apply where an employee commences a shift on the Sunday night and that shift runs into the Monday AM, eo long as no more than three (3) hours of that shift fall on the Sunday.
44^
jot>

Part-time workers and employees hired on a casual basis shall receive a premium of twenty (20) cents per hour for hours worked between 12:01 a.m. and midnight on Saturday and thirty (30) cents per hour for hours worked between 12; 01 am and midnight on Sunday. Such premium shall not be a part of an employee's regular hourly job rate. The premium shall not apply for any hours for which overtime rates are paid..
10.	1. Employees who use a knife one hundred percent of the time in the
performance of their duties shall receive one hour's pay per week at their regular rate (exclusive of any premium pay) .
2. Employees who use a knife more than fifty percent of the time, but less than one hundred percent of the time in the performance of
40
their duties shall receive one half hour pay per week at their regular rate {exclusive of any premium pay).
3,	Employees shall sharpen their knives on their own time.
4,	Employees shall purchase their own knives, steels and stones.
5,	The Company shall provide safety scabbard, apron and meshed glove.
11.	An employee in the Bargaining Unit designated by the Company as a group leader, a deputy of the Operations supervisor, shall receive five (5) cents above the highest rate actually paid to employee6 under his/her direction except in cases where the group leader is the highest rated employee in which case five (5) cents shall be added to his/her job rate. The steward will be kept informed by the Company of employees under the direction of the group leader. It is agreed that a group leader shall not hire, lay-off, suspend, discharge or exercise other discipline. Nor shall the group leader transfer employees to other departments unless (s)he is directed to do so by a member of management. It is further understood and agreed that a group leader shall not be retained in his/her department under Article 11, Section
2,	solely because of his/her duties as a group leader.
12.	In the case of an employee who has signified his/her wish to return to his/her original department under Article 11, Section 1, but is prevented from returning solely because of the lack of a qualified replacement, (s)he shall be paid the job rate to which (s)he would be entitled in his/her original department or the rate (s)he is paid on the date (s)he is prevented from returning to his/her original department, whichever i s greater.
41
SCHEDULE "B
PAID HOLIDAYS
Paid Holidays.
1.
(a) Ten Paid Holidays shall be recognized as follows:
Good Friday Dominion Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day
(usually referred to as the Civic
New Year's Day Victoria Day
Labour Day Christmas Day First Monday in August Holiday).
Boxing Day (unless mutually agreed that the day before Christmas be substituted in place of Boxing Day).
In addition to the Paid Holidays above employees on the payroll as of . April 1st each year ahall be granted one (l)Individual Holiday, which ] shall be taken in the calendar year in which the employee becomes eligible for such Individual Holiday, and at a time to be agreed upon between the Company and the employee. Except by permission of the Plant Management, an Individual Holiday shall not be granted during the period June 15th to September 15th.
should the plant be required by law to observe any holiday(s) other than those listed above, such holiday(s) shall replace the Individual Holiday. Where, in the absence of such a legal requirement, Heritage Day is commonly observed as a holiday by a plant's major customers, then the plant shall observe Heritage Day as a holiday in place of an Individual Holiday.
Where permitted under labour legislation if any of the Paid Holidays fall on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed as the holiday and where Monday is also a holiday, the Tuesday will be observed as the holiday in lieu of Monday.
If Christmas Day, Boxing Day, or New Year's Day, where applicable, fall on a Saturday, the Friday preceding shall be observed and where Friday is also a holiday, the Thursday will be observed in lieu of Friday.
(b) For each recognized Paid Holiday eight (8) hours holiday pay at his/her job rate ahall be paid to a regular hourly paid employee, provided (s)he works the full required hours on the scheduled work day preceding and the scheduled work day following such Holiday, unless there is a justifiable excuse for the absence satisfactory t o the Company.
In the case of an employee having seniority who is laid off prior to a Paid Holiday occurring in the same payroll week as the lay-off occurs and provided that such an employee, having seniority, has earnings on the payroll in the plant week during which such Paid Holiday occurs, (a) he shall not be disqualified for such holiday pay. When an employee having seniority is laid off on a Friday and a holiday occurs on the Saturday, Sunday or Monday immediately following and provided that such an employee, having seniority, has
42
earnings on the payroll i n the plant week in which the lay-off occurs, (s)he shall not be disqualified for such holiday pay. Similarly, if an employee having seniority is recalled from lay-off in a plant week containing a Paid Holiday and provided that such an employee, having seniority, has earnings on the payroll in such week, (s)he shall not be disqualified for such holiday pay.
Upon his/her return to work, an employee granted leave of absence under Article 13, Section 2, will be eligible for eight (8) hours pay for any Paid Holiday occurring during such period of authorized leave of absence.
(c)	In addition to (b) above, such employee shall be paid-double
his/her job rate for all hours worked on the holiday as provided under (a) above.
'2
2. A regular hourly paid employee otherwise entitled to paid holiday pay under this Schedule ”B" who does not have earnings in the plant week containing a holiday, and who is or becomes eligible for Weekly Indemnity or Workers’ Compensation benefits, will, upon return to work, be compensated for a paid holiday occurring during such absence on the following basis:
every employee will be conaidered a member of the Welfare Plan even though (s)he may have refused to join the Plan or does not have sufficient service to be eligible for Welfare Plan benefits,
when absence is due to sickness and the holiday falls during the four (4) day waiting period under the Welfare Plan, the employee will be paid full paid holiday pay,
when absence is due to sickness or non-occupational accident and a paid holiday occurs after the waiting period, but during the employee's benefit period, (s)he will be paid the holiday pay less one-fifth (1/5) of the weekly benefits,
if a paid holiday occurs on a non-scheduled day during the employee's benefit period, (s)he will be paid full paid holiday pay.
b) Absence due to Occupational Sickness or Accident:
a) i) ii) iii)
iv)
where a paid holiday falls during the waiting period for Workers' Compensation benefits, the employee will be paid full paid holiday
pay»
ii)	where a paid holiday occurs after the waiting period, but during the first twelve (12) months of Workers' compensation benefits, the employee will be paid holiday pay less the amount (s)he receive8 in Workers' Compensation benefits for the day of the holiday,
iii)	if a paid holiday occurs on a non-scheduled day during the first twelve (12) months of Workers' Compensation Benefits, the employee will be paid full paid holiday pay.
- 43
C)
Individual Holidays will also apply for such payment as prescribed under subsection a) and b) above providing the employee returns to work after December 31st of the year in which the holiday was to be taken.
- 44
SCHEDULE "D" - 12 HOUR SHIFT AGREEMENT FOR POWER ENGINEERS
The parties agree that during the life of this Collective Agreement, a "Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule" will be implemented which will provide that Powerhouse Engineers work an average of forty (40) hours per week over a five (5) week period (i.e. two-hundred (200) hours over a five (5) week period). The provision of two-hundred (200) hours over a five (5) week period is subject to change, by the Company, in order to provide appropriate shift coverage in the Powerhouse.
The implementation of the "Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule” will affect the Collective Agreement as follows:
1.	The thirty-seven (37) hour pay guarantee shall reduce to the actual hours scheduled where those scheduled hours total less than thirty-seven
(37) hours in a specific week.
2.	The fifty (50) scheduled days of employment referred to in Article 10, Section 1 shall be equal to fifty (50) scheduled shifts regardless of the lengths of the shifts which meet the criteria set forth, in Article 10, Section 1.
3.	Vacation pay shall be paid on the basis of a regular eight (3) hour day.
4.	Funeral pay shall be paid on the basis of a regular eight (8) hour shift for each day of leave granted.
5.	Medical aid shall be paid on the basis of a regular eight (8) hour shift in that the maximum payment that will be paid under the Article 13, Section 7 will be eight (8) hours including the payment for hours worked, unless the hours worked are greater than eight (8) hours, then payment will be made for those hours worked.
6.	Shift premium shall not be paid for the hours worked between 7s00 AM. and 4s00 P.M., regardless of the start time of the shift, but w i 11 be paid for each hour worked between 4s0Q P.M. and 7 s00 A.M.
7.	Overtime shall be paid at one and one-half (11/2) times the employees' regular rate only if an employee has worked in excess of twelve (12) hours when a twelve (12) hour shift is scheduled, and
a)	a meal shall be provided as per Article 8.7,
b)	Article 8.5, will govern the payment of the double time rate and the application of the second meal, however, where the contract reads 13, 17 shall be substituted in the twelve (12) hour shift situation.
8.	The meal and rest periods shall remain as they are for an eight (8) hour shift, that is, one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch break and two fifteen (15) minute, Company paid, rest periods which may be taken at a time suitable to the Engineer given that operational requirements do not necessitate that (s)he attend to his/her job.
- 45 -
Paid holidays will be paid on the basis of an eight (8) hour shift SO that;
a)	holiday pay for a twelve (12) hour shift worked will equal eight (8) hours pay at regular rates, plus,
b)	twice the hourly rate for each hour worked on the calendar holiday, is paid
Note - an Individual Holiday is a paid holiday.
10. The general principle underlying the implementation of a twelve (12) hour shift schedule is that the company will not incur any additional costs in wages, premiums, replacement coverage or the like, and that in each situation where a dispute arises over the interpretation of this Schedule "D", it will be decided on the basis of this principle. Thus, the dispute will be settled on the basis of the cost calculated for an eight (8) hour shift schedule applied to the twelve (12) hour shift scheduled.
46
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between:
Burns Meats, a division of Burns Foods (1985) Limited, Winnipeg, Manitoba
(hereinafter called the Company)
and :
United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local No. 832, (hereinafter called the Union)
This letter of understanding shall form part of the collective bargaining agreement between the above parties, effective April 1, 1991, expiring March 31, 1994.
1.	CO-OPERATIVE TIME STUDY ON LINE SPEED
The Company and the Union agree to a co-operative time study to be done on line speed. The Company and the Union will each name their representative to the study within thirty (30) calendar days from the ratification of this Collective Agreement.
The time speed study shall assess the impact of on line duty on employees.
The time study shall be completed within six (6) calendar months from the date of appointment of the two representatives. All the details of the study and results shall be made available to the Company and the Union and the Health and Safety Committees, Results of the study shall be implemented providing the Company and the Union jointly agree to its implementation.
The coat of the Company's nominee shall be borne by the Company and the cost of the Union's nominee shall be borne by the Union.
This letter of understanding shall bo null and void and no longer part c£ the above collective bargaining agreement once the study is completed and when the above parties have received a copy of the study.
2.	HEALTH AND SAFETY DO!_______
The parties agree to structure the Health and Safety Committee on the lines of six (6) members of the Committee representing Management and six (6) members of the Committee representing the Union.
3. REVIEW OF SCHEDULE OF GRADES COVERING PLANT OPERATIONS
The parties agree that within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of negotiations, a committee will be struck consisting of two (2) members of Management and two (2) members of the Union to discuss the revamping of the Schedule of Grades Covering Plant Operations which will include the addition and/or deletion of duties/gradas and the amalgamation of duties/grades. When
47 -
the discussions of this committee turn to the duties/grades in the maintenance department then each party may add to the committee a representative from that department.
This Committee shall also deal with the proposed changes of the schedule of grades as contained in the Company letter to Mr. Bruno Zimmer from Mr. Don Dufort, dated March 1, 19B9 and the letter to Mr. Colin Trigwell from Mr. Don Dufort, dated December 13, 1990.
The committee will present their proposed changes to their respective principles for ratification prior to any implementation.
4.	SHIFT PREFERENCE COMMITTEE
The issue of shift preference which arose during the 1991 negotiations shall be explored by a committee comprised of 3 members of Management and 3 maiibas of the Union. Each party will make known to the other the names of their respective committee members prior to September 15, 1991 and that committee will commence to meet prior to October 15, 1991,
The committee may conclude a memorandum that will impact upon the collective agreement during its life. In the event that the committee cannot agree on a resolution to the issue then the matter will be presented to Mr. Jim Murdock for non-binding mediation, at the request of either party but not sooner than January 1, 1992.
5.	DENTAL PLAN REVIEW
Prior to December 15, 1991 Mr. B. Christophs and Mr. D. Dufort will meet to explore the possibility of the M.F.C.H. Dental Plan replacing the Burns Foods Dental Plan during the life of this Collective Agreement.
No change will take place with respect to the dental plan unless both parties mutually agree to implement the change.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE DULY EXECUTED THIS LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING.
SIGNED THIS ______ DAY OF _______________, 1991.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
48 -
Schedule of Grades Covering Plant Operations
BEEF DRESSING BEEF CUTTING
1	Driving	13
7	Knocking	11
5	shackling	
12	Sticking	1
2	Catch blood	15
14	Head skinning	
0	Cut of€ horns	
• Loosen tongue feet
skin flank,
4	Cut of€ head
3	Cut of€ front
20	Skin hind leg,
r i m over 2	Operate hoist
17	Drop bung, skin tail, mark
aitch
23	Siding (Power Knife)	2
20	clear around forequarters 8
15	Tend hide puller	4
2	Hide disposal
4	Operate winch puller	5
6	Saw breast bone	0
6	Gullet raising
4	Caul fat saving
12	Remove viscera
13	Sawing down (complete electric)
5	Scribbing
6	Trim neck, remove glands
5	Defatting
4	Trim beef
1	Washing
7	Shrouding
5	Scaling
2	Clean and hang rollers
4	Skin slunks
Head Beef Cutter (1man)
Beef Cutters (commercial cuts, also cutting for plant market) Beef cutting helpers Beef boners (Boning whole or cut up ocs,, quarters, chucks loins and steak pLecas for cuts for sale or for manufacturing) Beef boners (Boning shanks, plates, briskets, ribs or flanks for sale or manufacturing)
Beef packers
Operate bandsaw (make cuts) Trim meat for sausage or
canning
Rolling beef and veal All other operations
BLOCK READY BSBF
11 Remove tip and prepare for breakup
11	Operate bandsaw, break primal cute
9 Trim primal cuts (bandsaw)
12	Trim primal cuts and semi-bone 3 Bag primal cute
3	Vacuumize primal cute
4	Pack, scale and record
BEEF COOLERS
HOG DRESSING
5	scalers (Carlots)	1
2	Sack, wrap, stencil,	stamp, brand 5
2	Carcass to coolers	5
1	Remove shrouds	15
5	Transfer beef using beef shifter 3
5	Ribbing beef	2
2	Lifting beef	8
1	Push carcass in cooler	3
15	Skin veal, split	6
0	All other operations	3
Driving
Iimnobolizing
Hanging Immobolized hogs
Stickers
Dropping
Scalding (assistant) Scalder
Feed dehairing machine Open up gam cords Hanging off
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
- 49 -
HOG DRESSING - (Cont'd)
2	Hang off from conveyor 2 Toe nail pulling
2	Singeing (tunnel)
a Hand Singe (soaldera)
0	Pinning shoulders 7 Shaving hams 6 Shaving shoulders, backs bellies
3	Scraping hind feet 6 open breast bones
4	Open aitch bones
11	Open bellies
0	Cutting off teats 2 Cutting out pizzle
12	Drop bungs
12	Remove viscera 11 Drop tongues
9 Hog header
2	Heading (helpers)
4 Print-o-matic scaler 4 Inspector's helper
6	Pull leaf lard
7	Facing hams
3	Taking out kidneys 2 Taking out ovaries
0	Tagging rail grades 2 Scraping leaf lard
2	Taking out head glands 11 Saw backbone
4	Chiseler (continental)
13	Splitting (cleaver only - no saw) a Mark backbone, power saw
a Cleaver split after saw
2	Strip marking
1	Washing
3	Cutting off heads
2	Remove hog skirts (hot)
2	Government stamp hogs
2	Clean and hang rollers
3	Raise ham artery 9 Clean held hogs
1	Place hogs in cooler
4	Shave heads
HOG CUTTING
1	Pushing Hogs
11 chop shoulders (cleaver)
8	Saw hams - cut off feet 5 Feed circular knife
9	Bandsaw, make cuts
8	Lift neckbones
9	Pull butts and shoulders 9 Trim butts
9 Trim picnics 9 Trim shoulders 9 Trim hams 4 Split middles 9 Saw backbones (power)
4	Remove buttons
7	Remove tailbones
2	Remove tenders
3	Trim tenders 11 Rib bellies 11 Trim bellies
4	Feed belly roller 11 Rib backs
11 Bone backs
11 Pull back fat
11 Fat and trim backs and loins
2	Trim jowls
8	Mechanical back and loin puller
3	Pork trimming from pork cuts
2	Skin back fat (hand)
5	Whizzard knife operator 0 Tanking
7 Bone carcasses or cute 7 Bone picnics, shouldere, butts
6	Work up hog heads
4	Clerk
11 Bone, roll, stitch fresh hams
3	skinning machine operator 0 Truckers
2	Truok and scale
4	Chop necks, place on table
2	Trim and wash feet
3	Rolling and tying machine operator
2	Wrap cuts
3	Pack and scale
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
- 50
Schedule of Grades Covering Plant Operations
S.P. CELLARS - CURING
5	Pumpers (incl. artery)
4	Put down-cuts
4	Put down semi dry 4 Pullers - cuts 4 Ham graders 4 Belly graders
2	Other graders 7 Pickle makers
3	Pickle makers (asst,)
2	Filter pickle
0	Repair and wash trucks
0	Overhauling, trucking and other general Labour
1	Feed Injsoto machine
2	Freezer wrap
4	Injecto machine operator
6	Make dry cure and mix
0	Unload cars and trucks
4	Forklift and high stacks
S.P. CELLARS / CONVERTING
5	Defat hams - external defatting 5 Whizzard knife operator
11 Ham boner - remove bones from ham 5 Defat hams - internal defatting
5	Operate ham boning machine
6	Convert bone and roll for smoke or S.P. (hand)
6	Grind and tumble cure
3	Operate rolling machine 3 Stuffing
2	Brand i n washroom
1	Stockinetter
7	Scaler and cellar books
3	Part or fully skin hams 7 Bone picnics
11 Smoke house operator
1	Scraper
3	Skinning machine operator
4	Skin bacon (knife)
2	Clean smoke houses
0	General labour in washroom 2 Caging
1	Hanger
2	Comber
1	Clean trees, trolleys and combs 4 Fill smoke house - start smoke
S.P. CELLARS - COOKED HAM HPG
2	Ham Presser
7 Ham Cook Tank operator
3	Pack hams to moulds 2 Stuff Mepaco hams
FREEZER
6 Bookkeeping and scaling 5 Freezerman
4 Scaling (car loading, etc.) 2 Grading
2 Clean ammonia coils 2 Trucking and scaling
BY-FRCDUCIS - TANKHOUSB
6 Wet tank operator 12 Rendering cooker operator a Expeller 4 Curb press
8 Operate Titan Centrifuge
4	Lard pumpers
5	Catch basin
2	Feed hasher
8	Drying blood
4 Taurine centrifuge operator
3	Loading tank cars
6	Bookkeeper
9	Skin deads
0 Other general labour
3	Load cooker
4	Save foetal bovine blood 11 Operate sharpies equipment
BY-PRODUCTS - LARD
8 Lard roll operator 11 Votator operator
11	Refinery operator
12	Deodorizer
3 Filling lard containers 2 Carton Packer 0 Packing and closing carton8 and boxes 0 General Labour 2 Clean lard filter and press
- 51 -
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
52
Schedule of Grades Covering Plant Operations
BY-PRODUCTS - HIDES
6	Hide inspector and grader 4 Hide trimmer
4	Hide scaler
0	Put down or take up hides
4	High lift and stack
1	Bundling hides 3 Salter
1	Truck and pile hides CASINGS - BEEF AND VEAL
5	Trim paunches
5	Remove bung and ruffle fat
2	open and wash tripe
7	Running rounds
6	Separate beef casings
3	Open middles
6	Hand fatting middles
7	Trim bungs
2	Nand slime bungs and rounds
3	Stripping rounds
3	Turning beef casings 2	Flush	middles
2	Flush	bungs
3	Run fatting machine, Slime crusher or sliming machine
4	Grade beef casings
2 Hanking and salting
4	Packing
5	Finishing tripe (edible)
5	Split	head,	save	brains
0	Clean	tripe	for	fox	food
7	Woik up beef heads 5 Trim plux 4 Trim tongues
2	Pack fancy meats
3	Trim glands, cheek meat, etc 0 Tanking, trucking, sweeping 0 General labour
CASING - HOGS
4	Handle reject sets
5	Separate plux and viscera
5	Trim plux
6	Pulling bungs 2 Turning bungs 2 Washing bungs
6	Trimming bungs
2	Salting bungs
6	Pulling small casing 0 Stripping
4	Crushing machine
5	Casing cleaning machine
7	Grading hog casings (not bungs)
3	Hanking and salting
4	Packing casings and bungs
6	Work up hog heads
5	All trimming of offals 0 General labour
3	Count, Inspect, Test Received Casings
2	Save pancreas gland
3	Pull weasand meat
3	open and flush hog stomach 5 Save stomach linings
STORES
4	Storekeeper (head)
3	Storekeeper (asst.)
2 Make boxes
0 Unloadera, truckers and general labour
4	Highlift and stack
SHIPPING
7	Deskman 4 Runner 2 Stocker
LOADING
7	Checking on loading dock 11 Receiver
7	Beef luggers (into cars only) 0 General loaders and labourers
4	Sort and load mixed merchandise
5	Sort and load mixed merchandise (includingbeef)
TRUCK DRIVING
5	Truck operator 12 Driver deliveries
53 -
4 Grading bungs	4 Swamper
helper)
FOR ANY SOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
54 -
(truck driver' 's
Schedule of Grades Covering Plant Operations
STOCKYARDS 2	Tend Linker
2	Tattooer
4	Tractor operator
4	Yardman
1	Livestock driving	and	labourers
5	Sort and weigh
4	Sort for and feed	kill	floor
JANITORS, LAUNDRY, ETC.
0	Janitors
2	Operator elevator
4	Cleanup
1	Incinerator attendant
5	Laundry (head)
3	Seamstress (1st class)
6	Sort and record returned product
2	Seamstress (2nd class)
2 Laundry (sort, fold, press)
1	Shipping
2	Washroom
1 Cleanup in chain, lab 0 General labour
SAUSAGE
4 Mechanical deboner 7 Silent cutter and mixing
2	Chop frozen blocks 11 Sausage maker
7 Sausage cooker and vat tender
4	Sausage cookers
a Cooker and jellied meats formulator
5	Make mincemeat 5 Grinding
4	Vacuum mixer operator
3	Stuffing
5	Test clerk
4	Delicatessen
2 Clean smoke houses 11 Smoke house operator 2 Smoke house helper
5	Set-up and operate Frank-a-matic 2 Load staffers (piston style)
2 Linking and hanging
1	Preclip a.c. casing
2	Tend linker 2 Weigh spices
2	Clerk
0	Washup and general labour
3	Frank-a-matic attendant
2	casing applier
3	Skinless sausage machine operator
7	Pre-blend operator
PACKAGING
4	Operate flex vac 2 Tempering man
0	Trucking
2	Chill room man
3	Kartridge pak wiener peeler 2 Wrap and pack
1	Stitch corrugated cartons
2	Vacuumizing product
2 Wrapping smoked meats
2	Machine operator and scaler
1	Townsend skinner
0	General labour
3 operate Cashin Slicer
3	Operate Cashin Shadow Graph scale
2	slicing machine operator
2	Sausage skinning machine operator
3	Press bacon
LARD
2 Feed carton machine
2	Fill 1 lb. cartons
1	Close and pack
3	Operate Redington machine 1 Make cartons (hand)
0 General labour
55
2 Prepare casings 2 Cooked meats and loaves 2 Sausage and cooked meats cooler
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
- 56 -
Schedule of Grades Covering Plant Operations
MECHANICAL
Leading Hands
April X, 1992 April 1, 1993
42
42
39
39
39
39
Special machinist	43	44
Electrician	43	44
High pressure fitter	40	41
Carpenter and finisher	40	41
Pressure welder	40	41
Auto mechanic	40	41
Journeymen
32 All trades	33	34
Improvers 22 All trades
23
24
Helpers S All trades
Miscellaneous
18	Saw filer (hand file)	19	20
14	Saw filer (machine file)	15	16
22	Scale repairer	23	24
12	Mechanical cost clerk	13	14
5	Mechanical storekeeper	6	7
15	Painter	16	17
7	Greaser and oiler	8	9
0	Labour		
To obtain the journeyman rate an employee must possess a Journeyman Ticket in the respective trade.
POWERHOUSE
41 Shift Eng. where 2nd class papers required 32 Shift Eng. where 3rd class papers required 12 Shift Eng. where 4th class pagers required
12 Boil er fireman (with papers) 8 Boilennan (no papers)
42	43
33	34
13	14
13	14
9	10
- 57 -
0 Power house labour
7 Temperature mai	8	9
FOR AMY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
58