EXPIRY DATE: DECEMBER31, 2008
AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC., a body corporate carrying on business in the province of Manitoba
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
AND
UNITED FOOD &COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL No. 832, chartered by the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
WHEREAS: The Company and the Union desire to co-operate in establishing and maintainingconditions which will promote a harmonious relationship betweenthe Company and the employees covered by this Collective BargainingAgreement, to provide methods for fair and amicable adjustment of disputes which may arise between them and promote efficiency and improved operations;
NOW THEREFORE, THE UNION AND THE COMPANY MUTUALLY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION I______NATURE OF THE BARGAINING UNIT
1.01	The Company agrees to recognize the Union as the sole agency for
the purpose of collective bargaining for all employees working at its meat processing r;Afi®ilf^	or part-time, at its plant located in the Province of Manitoba, save
UJana'Wc&pt working supervisors and those above such rank, security personnel, office and y)qugli|y pogti^gerpeiyis, and those excluded by the Act.
Employees excluded from the bargaining unit, as indicated in Section {^jUll^tioverW^-neHaerform bargaining unit work to displace an employee who would otherwise be entitled to a scheduled shift for such work.
SECTION 2________UNION SHOP
2.01	The Company agrees to retain in its employ within the bargaining unit,
as outlined in Section 1 of this Collective BargainingAgreement, only members of the
Union in good standing. The Company shall be free to hire or rehire new employees who are not members of the Union, provided said non-members,whether part-time or full-time, shall be eligible for membership in the Union and shall make application on the official membership application form within ten (10) calendar days from date of hire or rehire and become members within thirty (30) calendar days.
2.02	The Company agrees to provide each new employee and rehired employee, at the time of employment, with a form letter outlining to the employee his responsibility in regard to payment of union dues and initiation fee.
2.03	The Company agrees to forward a Membership Application duly completed, as attached to this Collective Bargaining Agreement, to the Union within ten (10) calendar days from date of hire or rehire of an employee. The Union shall bear the expense of printing and mailing the Membership Application. The Membership Application in Exhibit One will be used for the duration of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
2.04	No Discrimination
(1)	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for lawful Union activities, or performing services on a Union committee outside working hours or for reporting to the Union the violation of any provisions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
(2)	It shall continue to be the policy of the Company and the Union not to discriminate against any employee because of race, colour, creed, ethnic or national origin, gender, sexual orientation, family status, physical or mental handicap or marital status.
SECTION 3________DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
3.01	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of the employee such
union dues and initiation fee as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. The Company further agrees to deduct the union dues automatically from the wages of new or rehired employees' first paycheque(s). Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union within twenty (20) calendar days following the end of the Company's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period and accompanied by a four week or monthly computer magnetic tape of the names, Social Insurance Numbers and plant numbers of the employees for whom deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
2
SECTION 4
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
4.01	New employees shall be on probation for a period of twenty-two (22)
weeks for full-time employees and eight hundred and eighty (880) hours for part-time employees. The Company, at their discretion, may discharge any probationary employee within the above time limit(s) and said employee shall have no recourse to the Grievance and Arbitration sections of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
SECTION 5_____HOURS OF WORK
5.01	The normal basic work week for full-time employees shall be forty (40)
hours per week, to be worked in five (5) consecutive shifts of eight (8) hours each scheduled by management and/or four (4) consecutive shifts of ten (10) hours each scheduled by management. The Company and the Union agree that in the event of a shortage of raw material, breakdown of machinery, epidemics, circumstances beyond the control of the Company, reconfiguration of equipment, or market conditions, full-time employees may work less than forty (40) hours per week.
hours.
No full-time employee shall be called in to work for less than four (4)
5.02	With the exception of the meal and rest periods referred to in Section 5.10, a full-time employee's shift for the day shall be comprised of consecutive hours of work.
5.03	For full-time employees who are scheduled five eight-hour shifts in a work week and a General Holiday falls during one of the scheduled work days, and the plant closes on said day, an employee shall work thirty-two (32) hours that week and receive forty (40) hours pay. If a General Holiday falls outside a full-time employee's scheduled work week, such employees shall be paid for all the hours worked in the week of the General Holiday plus eight (8) hours pay for said General Holiday. If two General Holidays fall in the same calendar week, a similar entitlement procedure as above shall apply.
5.04	For employees who are scheduled to work four ten-hour days a week and a General Holiday falls during a scheduled work day, and the plant closes on said day, an employee shall work thirty (30) hours and be paid forty (40) hours for that week. If a full-time employee works a IO-hour 4-day week and the General Holiday does not fall in his scheduled work week, he shall receive an additional eight (8) hours pay for the General Holiday in addition to all the hours worked and paid in the week of the General Holiday. The same procedure shall apply when two (2) General Holidays fall in a calendar week.
5.05	All employees shall have a minimum of twelve (12) hours off between scheduled shifts, except in case of emergency or unless mutually agreeable between the
3
Company and the employees. Emergency shall be defined as any unexpected absence of employees due to illness, injury, mechanical breakdown, or in situations beyond the control of the Company.
5.06	The Company shall grant employees either two (2) consecutive days per week or three (3) consecutive days per week off, consistent with either an eight-hour five-day work week or a ten-hour four-day work week.
5.07	The Company agrees to notify full-time employees, at least one week in advance, or at the commencement of employment, whether they will work an eight-hour five-day work week or a ten-hour four-day work week. The Company's operation shall be a seven-day work week operation, from Sunday to Saturday inclusive. There will be three (3) shifts in a twenty-four (24) hour work day, designated as the Day Shift, Afternoon Shift, or Night Shift.
5.08	Part-time t___________' fours of Work
The Company may hire up to forty-seven and one-half (47.5%) percent of the work force as part-time employees. Calculation of the percentage shall take place every four (4) calendar weeks and shall be based on the total number of employees in the bargaining unit, each and every week. Ifthe percentage of part-time employees exceeds forty-seven and one-half (47.5%) percent in any one week, the number of part-time employees who are in excess of the forty-seven and one-half (47.5%) percent shall be the number used to pay the most senior part-time employees the hourly rate of pay for the next higher classification (using the part-time employees' experience) for all hours worked by said employees, (i.e. Ifthe Company has400 employees in the bargaining unit and 200 employees in one week were part-time, the 10 most senior part-time employees will receive the hourly rate of pay for the next higher classification as indicated above for the number of hours that those 10 senior employees worked during that week.) Forfurther clarification if the 10 most senior part-time employees were at the 12 month rate in the skilled classification, they would receive the 12 month rate in the Trades Without License classification for all hours worked that week.
Said part-time employees may be scheduled to work less than forty (40) hours a week, but will not be scheduled to work less than four (4) hours in any one shift when scheduled or called in to work.
5.09	Scheduling and Posting Work Schedule
(1)	Scheduling shall be done by the Company for full-time employees by
classification within each department and by seniority, and for parttime employees shall be done by department and by seniority. Both full-time and part-time shall be scheduled as indicated above,
4
provided that the employee has the ability to perform the normal functions of the job. The plant shall be divided into the following departments:
i)	Operating Engineers
ii)	Sanitation
iii)	Maintenance
iv)	Shipping
v)	Packaging
vi)	Curing
vii)	Converting/Stuffing
viii)	Cookroom and such other departments to be identified before the new plant is in operation.
The Company has the ability to create additional departments during the life of this Collective BargainingAgreement for legitimate business reasons, providing it informs the Union of its intention within a reasonable period of time of not less than thirty (30) calendar days before establishing the newdepartment(s).
(2)	The Company shall post a work schedule for all employees, either working full-time or part-time, no laterthan Thursday of each week for the following week. If the schedule is not posted by Thursday at 6:00 p.m., then the schedule already posted shall apply for the following week.
The Company has the right to call in part-time employees not previously scheduled to work if required by the business, provided that a senior part-time employee in the department is not available to work the hours and provided it does not result in overtime hours being scheduled.
(3)	A schedule of employees working full-time may be changed without notice in the event of unscheduled absence of employees or in the event of emergencies, such as snow storm, flood, breakdown of machinery, or other instances of force majeure. In all other cases, except by mutual agreement between the Company and the employee, at least forty-eight (48) hours' notice of change must be given, or four (4) hours' additional pay, at the straight time rate, in lieu of notice.
The foregoing shall not apply to employees other than full-time. Notice to such other employees shall be given as far in advance as possible, by the Company. In the case of a shift cancellation for parttime employees, a minimum of twelve (12) hours' notice shall be
5
given, or four (4) hours additional pay at straight time shall be paid by the Company in lieu of notice, except in the event of an emergency as defined in Section 5.05.
(4)	Time Clocks
The Company shall provide time clocks to enable employees to record their own time for payroll purposes. Employees shall record their own time at the time they start and finish work and the time they commence and return from meal periods and such other recordings as may be required by the Company.
5.10	Meal and Rest Periods: All Employees
(I >A daily shift of four (4) hours and up to and including five
(5)	hours shall have one (1) rest period with pay.
(2)	A person working a daily shift of more than five (5) hours, but less than seven (7) hours, shall have one (1) rest period, with pay, and one (1) thirty (30)minute meal period, without pay.
(3)	A person working a daily shift of more than seven (7) hours and up to eight (8) hours shall have one meal period of thirty (30)minutes without pay and two rest periods with pay scheduled approximately in the middle of each period before and after the meal period.
(4)	Employees working a ten-hour shift shall have one CO thirty-minute meal period without pay and two (2) rest periods, and an additional rest period. (Said rest period shall be the last break of the day.) There shall be no exceptions to the meal period. The last rest period of an eight (8) hour or ten (10) hour shift shall betaken no longerthan one (li)ur priortothe end ofthe eight or ten hour shift.
(5)	If an employee is required to work overtime on the completion of an eight (8) hour shift orten (10) hourshift, and ifthe Company does not schedule a meal period without pay, then the employee will be scheduled a fifteen (15) minute rest period with pay within half an hour of the end of the first shift, providing the overtime is for two (2) hours or more. When an employee works four (4) hours or more of overtime, said employee shall be provided with a hot meal by the Company, or pay in lieu in the amount of six dollars and fifty ($6.50) cents.
(6)	The Company and the Union agree that a rest period scheduled by the Company shall be of fifteen (15) minutes' uninterrupted duration.
6
(7)	The Company and the Union agree that a meal period without pay for employees working a daily shift of eight (8) or ten (IO) hours shall be thirty (30)minutes’ of uninterrupted duration and shall start not earlier than three (3) hours nor later than five (5) hours after commencement of the employee’s shift.
5.11
Personal Breaks
(a)	The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day. The Union agrees that rest periods must not be abused.
(b)	Employees shall not be disciplined or discharged as a result of authorized usage of time for personal breaks granted by the Company. However as a deterrent to excess usage the following measures will apply:
(j) Employees will have the time used on each break deducted from their weekly hours worked.
(ii)	Any employee who uses greater than twenty (20) minutestotal time per week, in any four (4) week period, shall have all subsequent time used on each break deducted from their weekly hours worked at double the rate of use for the next four (4) week period.
(iii)	Employees who for reasons supported by medical documentation show a specific condition to exist which necessitates greater use of the washroom will not have time deducted for use of the washroom.
(c)	The Union agrees to work with the Company to deal with employees who are abusing personal breaks.
SECTION 6_____OVERTIME
6.01	The Company agrees to pay an employee time and one-half (1 Vi) for
any time worked after completing either an eight-hour shift, or ten-hour shift for employees who work four ten-hour shifts.
The Company agrees to pay an employee time and one-half (IV2) for anytime worked after (s)he has worked forty (40) hours in a week which have been paid at straight time rates. The forty (40) hours referred to above will be reduced as indicated in
7
Sections 5.03 and 5.04.
6.02	Overtime shall be by mutual consent and shall be offered to the most senior employee(s) on the shift, in the department, by classification, and thereafter in descending order of seniority, providing the employee has the ability and qualifications to perform the required work. It is further understood that the efficient operation of the business may require overtime and in this eventthe mostjunioremployee(s) on theshiftin the department, by classification, in increasing order of seniority, who have the ability and qualifications to perform the work, shall then do the required work.
In the event that an employee is inadvertently not offered the opportunity to work overtime by seniority as indicated above, and is bypassed, said employee shall be given the first opportunity to work the next overtime regardless of his seniority ranking.
6.03	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime.
6.04	When a full-time or part-time employee is working on a General Holiday as indicated in Section 11 said employee shall receive time and one-half (1 Vi-) at his regular rate of pay for all time worked and in addition shall receivethe General Holiday pay that the employee would have received had said employee not worked on the General Holiday.
6.05	An employee who is sent home during his/her regularworkweek due to a lack of work and is then requested to work on Saturday and/or Sunday will receive the applicable overtime rate.
SECTION 7_________SENIORITY
7.01	Seniority is defined as the length of an employee's seniority with the
Company from the employee's original date of hire, which shall include a period or periods that an employee may have been on a leave cf absence authorized by the Company, or in a position excluded from the bargaining unit, effective April 1,1999.
The date for full-time employees shall be the date of appointment to a full-time position. The Company and the Union agree that if a part-time employee is appointed to afull-time position during his probationaryperiod as indicated in Section4.01, that employee must still complete his probationaryperiod until he has worked 880 hours including his part-time and full-time hours.
If employees begin work or are hired on the same date, seniority ranking shall be determined from their date of application to the Company. If the date of application is the same, the ranking shall be established using their birth date, defined for
8
these purposes as the month and day.
7.02	The Company agrees to provide a seniority listto the Union and have
same posted on the premises four (4) times a year; namely, January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 of each year. A copy of said seniority list shall be delivered to the Chief Steward and Assistant Chief Steward. When an employee completes the probationary period and attains seniority, as defined herein, the Union will be advised by the end of the payrollweek next following.
7.03	The seniority shall be considered broken and employmentterminated
if an employee:
(1)	is duly discharged by the Company and not reinstated through the Grievance and/or Arbitration procedure of this Collective Bargaining Agreement;
(2)	voluntarily quits or resigns;
(3)	has been laid-off continuously for a period of more than twelve (12) months or is called back to work after a lay-off and does not return to employment within the time as set out in Section 8;
(4)	is absent from work without a written leave of absence for more than three (3) working days, unless a satisfactory reason is given by the employee. Sickness or inability to communicate with the Company shall be considered a satisfactory reason;
(5)	fails to return to work on the completion of an authorized leave of absence, unless a satisfactory reason is given by the employee. Sickness or inability to communicate with the Company shall be considered a satisfactory reason.
(6)	has not worked for a period of two (2) years or longer due to illness or injury, unless by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union that the period should be shortened or extended. Prior to an employee who is absent from work due to illness or injury being terminated, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the particular circumstances of the employee in question. The termination of an employee in these circumstanceswill not affect his or her eligibility for benefits under LTD. If the parties are unable to agree on the status of the employee, the Company maintains the right to terminate the employee subject to the Union maintaining the right to grieve the validity of such termination.
9
The employee understands that any termination that is mutually agreed upon between the Company and Union shall be deemed for just cause.
7.04	Seniority shall be the governing factor in matters of promotion, lay-off, choice of shift, recall, reduction from full-time to part-time, and choice of vacation schedule, providing the employee has the ability to perform the normal functions of the job requirements.
7.05	In the event an employee’s status changes from full-time to part-time either at the direction of or with permission of the Company, his seniority date will be his most recent date of hire. When an employee’s full-time status is changed to part-time status due to circumstances of maintaining an efficient operation it is understood that such employees shall be considered for full-time positions before employees who have requested full-time employment before any posting is made by the Company.
7.06	The Company agrees to give one (1) week’s notice prior to changing an employee’s status from full-time to a part-time basis.
7.07	It will be the responsibility of each employeeto keep the Company and the Union advised at all times of his/her current address and telephone number, either temporary or permanent.
7.08	Part-time
Part-time employees will have seniority only within the part-time seniority list, and full-time employees will have seniority over part-time employees. For scheduling purposes, part-time employees will still be scheduled separately from full-time employees. Said scheduling shall be done by department, by seniority, providing the employee has the ability to perform the normal functions of the job. The Company agrees to schedule part-time employees as indicated above in order that a senior part-time employee, if hours are available when scheduling a week, may be scheduled up to forty (40) hours.
SECTION 8__________LAY-OFF AND RECALL FROM LAY-OFF
8.01	Lay-off Notice / Definition
(a)	A lay-off, for the purpose of this section, shall be defined as a
layoff of seven (7) consecutive calendar days or longer.
10
(b) In the case of lay-off of employees with less than six (6) months seniority, the Company agrees that two (2) working days notice shall be given. For employees with six (6) months or more of service, two (2) working days notice shall be given for each year of service, up to a maximum of five (5) working days.
8.02	Lay-offs and recall to employment shall be based on seniority, i.e., the last hired employee shall be the first laid-off, and the last laid-off shall be the first recalled, provided the senior employee is able to perform the normal functions of the job, or can qualify reasonably quickly. Those given such opportunity to qualify must within seven (7) working days demonstrate ability to perform the assigned classification satisfactorily.
Part-time employees shall be laid-off prior to full-time employees on the criteria set out above. Full-time employees shall be recalled prior to part-time employees on the criteria as set out above.
8.03	In the event that a full-time employee is laid-off due to reduction of business, said employee would be entitled to displace the mostjunior full-time employee in another department within his classification, and be given an opportunity to demonstrate his ability to perform the normal functions of the job within one week, except in the event of permanent closure of a department or a job becoming redundant, in which case this period of time shall be up to ten (10) working days. When a junior full-time employee is displaced by another senior employee as indicated above, he shall be offered the opportunity to remain part-time in his classification in another department, by displacing the most junior employee, or by displacing the mostjunior part-time employee, or displacing the most junior full-time employee in a lower rate of pay classification, or be laid-off if the employee so chooses.
8.04	Any employee who has been notified at his or her last known address to return to work, and within five (5) calendar days has failed to do so without reasonable excuse, shall be considered to have quit his or her employment voluntarily and his or her existing seniority rights shall be therefore terminated. When such notice is sent to any employee, a copy thereof shall be sent concurrently to the Union.
8.05	The Company agrees to supply a list of laid-off or recalled employees, excluding those on probation, on the day an employee is given notice of lay-off or given notice of recall to the Chief Steward and a copy of same faxed to the Union.
SECTION 9_________VACANCIES / CLASSIFICATION POSTINGS
9.01	Classification vacancy(ies) are newly created positions or
positions that have been vacated by an employee or any additional positionsthatare
11
required by the Company to meet its business obligations. When the Company determines that there is a permanent vacancy it shall be posted on the bulletin board for three (3) working days within seven (7) working days from the date the classification vacancy has been created. Said classification vacancy to be filled shall be awarded to the senior qualified employee within fifteen (15) calendar days from the end of the three (3) day posting, providing the remaining employees can satisfactorily and efficiently perform the work required, but in any event said classification vacancy shall be awarded within forty-five (45) calendar days.
9.02	The Company will provide copies ofjob postings, applicant lists and the name of individual(s) awarded the job to the Chief Steward.
9.03	Vacancies occurring as a result of filling a temporary position will be filled by Management, by giving an opportunity to senior qualified employees to fill the vacancy, provided they possess the knowledge, training, ability, and physical fitness for the vacant position. Successful applicants for a temporary vacancy must remain in the position until the incumbent returns to work, or may be released earlier if the Company approves.
9.04	Job postings shall identify the classification, hours of work, which means the starting and quitting time, and the department.
9.05	Successful applicants under this provision may not apply for a further classification posting until they have worked nine (9) months in the position, except if the employee is applying to a higher paid classification in his department. Successful applicants who are removed by the Company will not be subject to the nine (9) month bar.
9.06	Employees who are on Workers Compensation, weekly indemnity, personal leave of absence, or vacation for more than one month shall be bypassed when granting the bid position.
9.07	It is understood that an employee with seniority must possess the knowledge, training, ability and physical fitness for the vacant position, which shall be tested when the Company gives the senior employee a reasonable training period to demonstrate his knowledge, training, ability and physical fitness for the position to which the employee applied.
The Company agrees that the training period indicated above is the period of time that the Company assigns in order to form an opinion as to whether or not an employee will eventually be able to perform the work without instruction or assistance. The Company and the Union agree that during said training period said employee shall be paid the rate of pay of the position they are
12
vacating. Upon completion of the training period, or forty-five (45) calendar days from the date of the award whichever is less, the employee shall be paid the rate of the job applied for.
9.08	An employee cannot qualify for the classification if said employee is causing serious loss or damage to product or equipment or inefficiency in the operation. Under these circumstances, the employee may be removed at any time and returned to his or her former position.
9.09	An employee who successfully bids on a position may opt to return to their former position at anytime during the training period without penalty. An employee can exercise this option only once every calendar year.
9.10	If the employee selected has performed the said classification within the last two (2) years, there will not be a need for a trial period for that particular employee in that particular position, providing the classification content has not substantially changed.
9.11	It is understood that employees who post to a lower paying job will be paid the rate of the job to which they post.
9.12	A part-time employee may become a full-time employee when either of the following circumstances arise:
(a)	a part-time employee successfully bids for a full-time position and is awarded the position as per Section 9.01 above; (the Company and the Union agree that full-time employees shall be given preference over part-time employees when full-time positions are available.) or
(b)	a part-timeemployee has worked the same number of hours as a full-time employee over a three (3) calendar month period. They shall then be deemed to be a full-time employee and shall receive pay and benefits according to the full-time employee’s classification in the collective bargaining agreement. The exception to this rule shall be when a part-time employee is specifically informed that he is replacing an employee for vacation purposes, leave of absence, illness or injury, or workers compensation for a period not exceeding six (6) calendar months.
SECTION 10 JOB ROTATION COMMITTEE
10.01	The Job Rotation Committee will identify the positions within
each classification and employees will be allowed to rotate jobs within their classifications in order to promote greater productivity, safety on the job, and job satisfaction. The Job Rotation Committee agrees to consult with the affected
13
employees to determine job rotation based on the principle that there is no job ownership. The length of time or duration shall be determined by the Job Rotation Committee, consistent with the objectives of the rotation system.
The Company agrees to form a job rotation committee composed of two (2) employees designated by the Union, one of whom may be a full time Union Representative, and two (2) Company representatives designated by management.
In identifying the position(s) within each classification for rotation, the committee shall take into consideration the safety and ergonomic needs of the employee(s), their ability to do other job(s), and the length of time that employee(s) have been working on a similar job. The Company agrees that not necessarily all jobs will rotate.
The Job Rotation Committee shall meet not less frequently than quarterly unless the parties mutually agree to a different schedule.
SECTION 11 GENERAL HOLIDAYS
11.01	The Company agrees to pay all regularemployees eight (8) hours
at their regular rate of pay for ten (10) paid General Holidays, namely:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
and any other days declared by the Federal or Provincial Government. For employees working 12-hour shifts or those working regular overtime, it will be their average length of shift in the last four (4) week period.
If a General Holiday does not fall on a work day within the scheduled work week of an employee, he or she shall receive either an additional eight (8) hours' pay or another day off with pay, which is mutually agreed upon between managementand the union, provided it is approved by a majority of the employees.
11.02	In order for a full-time or part-time employee to receive pay for a
General Holiday, he must:
(1) not have been voluntarily absent from work on the scheduled work day prior to or following such holiday;
14
(2) have worked his full, regular designated weekly hours for the week in which holidays, a holiday, or portion of a holiday occur, except for bona-fide illness.
Any employee on leave of absence (except employees disentitled for General Holiday pay as set out in the following paragraph) granted by the Company, at the request of the employee, shall not qualify for a General Holiday with pay if he is absent on both his last scheduled work day prior to, and his first scheduled work day following the General Holiday.
Any employee receiving a payment for a General Holiday under Weekly Indemnity benefits or Workers Compensation, or sick days, or who has been laid off, or has requested time off without pay for vacation purposes, shall not be entitled to General Holiday pay.
11.03	Eligiblefull-time employees shall suffer no reduction in their pay for a General Holiday as set out in 11.01 above, and shall be paid as indicated in Sections 5.03 and 5.04 of this agreement.
11.04	Eligible part-time employees shall be compensated as follows:
(a)	All part-time employees who have been employed thirty (30) calendar days or more and have worked an average of at least thirty-two (32) hours or more per week in the four (4) weeks preceding the week in which a General Holiday occurs, shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at his regular, hourly rate for each holiday.
(b)	All part-time employees who have been employed thirty (30) calendar days or more and have worked an average of at least twenty (20) hours a week, but less than thirty-two (32) hours per week in the four (4) weeks preceding the week in which a General Holiday occurs, shall receive six (6) hours' pay at his regular, hourly rate for each holiday.
(c)	All part-time employees who have been employed thirty (30) calendar days or more and have worked an average of at least ten (10) hours a week, but less than twenty (20) hours per week in the four (4) weeks preceding the week in which a General Holiday occurs, shall receive three (3) hours' pay at his regular, hourly rate for each holiday.
SECTION 12 WAGES
12.01	The minimum hourly rates of wages for all employees coming under
this Agreement shall be as set out in Appendix "B" of this Agreement. The rates of pay provided in Appendix "B" are minimum rates and apply to the job classifications. The Company reserves the right to pay employees within a job classification higher than the
15
classification rate.
12.02	Injury at Work
An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the hours he or she would have normally worked but were lost on the day in which the accident occurred. Employees will be required to provide written confirmation from the attending physician of treatment and inability to return to the workplace for the balance of the shift if requested by management.
SECTION 13 MODIFIED DUTIES/ALTERNATE WORK ARRANGEMENTS
13.01	The Company and the Union, whenever needed, will meet to arrive at
a mutually satisfactory agreement to find suitable duties and alternate work arrangements for employees who may have physical restrictions. Employees who are accommodatedto these positions shall be considered to be temporarily assigned to the positions, which shall not exceed sixty (60) calendar days except by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. Any employee who is accommodated to a newjob will be paid at their regular job classification hourly rate during the aforementioned accommodation period.
SECTION 14 VACATIONS WITH PAY
14.01	Each year's vacation requirements for any full-time employee to qualify
for the respective periods of vacation with pay, as set forth below, are that they have worked for the Company not less than ninety-five (95%) percent of the regular, full-time hours during a continuous twelve (12) month period, but time for absence from work not to include:
(1)	the period of vacation;
(2)	the aggregate of periods not exceeding thirty (30) working days in all, comprising:
(j) time during which the employee has been authorized by the Company to be absent from work;
(jj)	time in respect of which the employee files with the Company a
certificate, signed by a duly qualified medical practitioner, that he was unfit to work during that time, by reason of his illness or injury.
16
Where a full-time employee does not qualify for vacation with pay as outlined above he shall receive vacation pay calculated at two (2%) percent of his total wages earned for each week of vacation entitlement, for which no vacation allowance has been paid.
14.02	Full-time employees with less than one (1) year's seniority by
April 1st will receive an amount equal to four (4%) percent of their total wages earned duringthe period of employment, for which no vacation allowance has been paid, up to April 1st and such vacation pay will be paid at the time they take their vacation. Suchemployee(s) shall beallowed time off for vacation purposes, without pay, upto two (2) consecutive weeks outside the period of April 1st to September 30th, inclusive, unless otherwise mutually agreed to between the employee and the Company.
An employee(s) will be eligible for a vacation day(s) based upon the number of work days from the date of hire upto and including March31st of the following year on the following basis: an employee will be granted a vacation day(s) on the basis of two hundred sixty (260) work days in the vacation year divided by twelve (12) months equalling one vacation day for every twenty one and two thirds (21.66) work days to a maximum often (10) vacation days or major portion thereof. For greater clarity the following example is provided: if there are one hundred (100) work days from the date of hire to the following March31stthis isdivided by twenty one and two thirds (21.66) days equalling four point six one (4.61) vacation days which is rounded up to five (5) days as the major portion thereof.
14.03	Vacation entitlement for full-time employees based on years of full-
time seniority, except as defined in 14.19 below, will be as follows:
one (1) or more years of
service by April 1st
five (5) or more years of
service by April 1st
ten (10) or more years of
service by April 1st
nineteen (19) or more years
of service by April 1st
two (2) weeks' vacation with pay three (3) weeks' vacation with pay four (4) weeks' vacation with pay five (5) weeks’ vacation with pay
Eligible employees will start receiving the extra week in 2006.
14.04	Employees with five (5) years of employment in the past ten (10) years, upon completion of one (1) year of full-time seniority from their most recentfull-time employment date, shall be entitled to three (3) weeks' vacation with pay.
14.05	Full-time employees shall be granted a minimum of two (2)
17
consecutive weeks' vacation with pay during the months of April 1st to September 30th, except as indicated in Sections 14.06 and 14.07, or unless otherwise mutually agreed to between the employee and the Company.
14.06	Full-time employees entitled to three (3), or four (4) weeks vacation with pay shall be granted said vacations consecutively, except during the months of June, July, August, September and December, unless otherwise mutually agreed to between the employee and the Company.
14.07	The vacation period shall be from April 1 to March 31 , for all employees, unless otherwise mutually agreed between the employee and the Company.
14.08	Vacation Scheduling
Vacations may be granted at any time throughout the calendar year, subject to the demands of the business and up to a maximum of ten (10%) percent of the employees in any department will be allowed vacation at the same time. Beginning January 1st of each year, in each department, the Companythrough its working supervisor, shall ask each employee in each department their vacation preference for the first and second week of vacation entitlement, in order of seniority. Employees will also indicate their preference for any remaining weeks of vacation entitlement, one week at a time, in order of seniority. This process shall be completed no later than March 31st of that year. The working supervisor and the Company, consistent with the above and the seniority provisions of the collective bargaining agreement, shall then post the approved vacation schedule no later than April 1sf. Said approved vacation schedule shall not be changed unless mutually agreed between the employee and the Company. The Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacation time as requested by the employee.
14.09	When a General Holiday occurs during a full-time employee's vacation period, an extra day's vacation shall be granted if the holiday is one which the employee would have received had he been working. Such employee shall have a choice to be granted an extra day's vacation, or be paid for said holiday.
14.10	A full-time employee's approved scheduled vacation dates will not be changed by the Company.
14.11	If a full-time employee is ordered by a physician to be confined to his home or in the hospital due to serious illness (not to include day surgery) or injury while on vacation, the employee may request that the balance of his vacation be rescheduled following the employee's return to work but at a time outside the vacation period from April 1st to September 30th.
14.12	Full-time vacation entitlement must be taken from April 1st to March 31st to coincide with the eligibility date of April 1st and shall not be carried overfromyearto year beyond March 31st, unless by mutual agreement, and if that is not possible, the
18
a|
Company shall pay out vacation owing within thirty (30) calendar days of March 31
14.13	Full-time employees who work less than one (1) year and whose
employment is terminated, shall receive vacation pay calculated at four (4%) percent of their total wages earned for the period of time for which they have not received any vacation pay.
Part-time
14.14	Part-time employees will receive vacation pay allowance based on their previous year's total wages earned January 1st to December 31st, and same shall be paid during the month of April of each year. Entitlement will be based on years of seniority with the Company to December31st of each year as outlined below:
less than five (5) years	- 4%
five (5) years but less than ten (10)	- 6%
ten (10) years and more	- 8%
14.15	Employees with five (5) or more years of employment in the last ten (10) years shall receive six (6%) percent of their total wages earned for the vacation period for which they have not received any vacation pay.
14.16	Upon written request of the employee, the Company agrees to grant time off for vacation purposes without pay, based on the full-time employees' schedule for the vacation entitlement for number of weeks entitlement only. Two (2) consecutive weeks shall be granted during the months of April, May, June, July, August, or September, the balance to be granted by the Company in any other month, unless otherwise mutually agreed to between the Company and the employee.
GeneraI
14.17	The words "total wages earned”, wherever stated inthis Section,
shall be as defined in the Vacations With Pay Act of the Province of Manitoba.
(a) Employees who, during a vacation year ending March 31, are temporarily assigned to a higher classification for a minimum of thirteen (13) consecutive weeks, will have their vacation pay adjusted at the end of the vacation year on a pro rata basis, rounded to the nearest week. For the purpose of calculating the thirteen (13) consecutive weeks referred to above, days that an employee is off work on vacation, General Holidays and days that an employee is off work but entitled to be paid under Section 19.06 - Jury Duty, Section 19.07 -Witness Fees or Section 19.08 -
19
Bereavement Pay will not be included in the calculation of the thirteen (13) weeks but will also not be considered to break the continuity of the thirteen (13) consecutive weeks. For example, if an employee is temporarily assigned to a higher classification for eleven (II) consecutive weeks and then is off work on vacation for two (2) weeks, he/she would haveto be temporarily assigned to the same higher classification for two (2) more consecutive weeks following his/her return from vacation in order to trigger this clause. Employeeswho are absent for any day for any other reason will be deemed to have broken the period of thirteen (13) consecutive weeks and must start a new period of thirteen (13) consecutive weeks in order to qualify.
(b) In the event an employee takes a permanent position in a higher classification during the same vacation year as the temporary assignment, then sub (a) above shall not apply.
(C) The vacation pay adjustment shall be paid on the first pay period after March 31 of each successive year.
14.18	The Company reserves the right to determine the vacation period for
each employee, subject to the seniority provisions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
14.19	For the purpose of vacation entitlement in Section 14, years of
seniority as indicated above shall not include periods of time when an employee has been laid-off.
SECTION 15 MANAGEMENTS RIGHTS AND FUNCTIONS
15.01	The management of the Company and the direction of the working force, including the right to plan, direct and control plant operations, to maintain the discipline and efficiency of the employees and to require employees to observe Company rules and regulations; to hire; lay-off or assign employees' working hours; promote; demote, discipline, suspend or discharge employees for just cause, are to be the sole right and function of the management.
15.02	The Company shall be the sole judge as to the products to be handled in its plant.
15.03	The exercise of the foregoing rights shall not alter any of the specific provisions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
15.04	In administering this Collective BargainingAgreement, the Company
20
shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a manner consistent with the Collective Bargaining Agreement as a whole.
SECTION 16	HEALTH AND SAFETY
16.01	The Company and the Union shall make every reasonable provision for the safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment.
16.02	Health and Safety Committee
The Company and the Union agree to set up a Safety Committee of ten (IO) members with equal representation from both parties, and, in addition, add another one (1) committee member for each side for each additional five hundred (500) employees in the bargaining unit. The functions of this committee are to see that safe working conditions for all employees are maintained. Meetings of the Safety Committee shall be held monthly during regular working hours. Whenever possible, such meetings will be held in the third week of each month. Upon management approval all time spent investigating health and safety issues and attending health and safety meetings shall be paid time.
16.03	The Company agrees to pay for members of the Safety Committee to attend seminars, courses, or conferences up to two (2) normal working days per committee person per year. The time and scheduling for this time off is to be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
16.04	No employee shall be sent from one extreme temperature working condition to another in the same day, such as from a smokehouse to a freezer or cooler without a minimum often (10) minutes as a cooling off period.
16.05	First aid shall be available for workers on all shifts.
16.06	Right to Refuse Dangerous Work
In situations where an employee has reasonable grounds to believe and does believe that the particular work is dangerous to his or her safety or health the employee shall first report his or her concerns to his or her immediate supervisor. If immediate action to correct the situation is not taken or if the employee is told that corrective action is not necessary but nevertheless continues to believe that the particular work is dangerous to his or her safety or health the employee shall be entitled to refuse to perform that particular work until such time that a person from the appropriate government agency has come to the Company's operation to inspect the particular work firsthand. During this time period the employee may be assigned to alternative duties that may be
21
available within the plant. Payment for the above noted time period will not be made if the employee refuses to perform alternative duties.
16.07	Protective devices and other equipment not indicated in Section 16.08 deemed necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company.
16.08	Protective Clothing I Equipment
Laundered cooler coats, pants (shirts as required), aprons, rubber footwear, wetwear, “mousetraps”, knives, steels, scabbards, safety head gear, mesh gloves, rubber gloves, hair nets, cotton gloves, and freezerjackets required for work shall be supplied, and replacements shall be supplied as authorized by Supervision as needed. The supply of equipment or replacement of equipment as indicated above shall be at no cost to the employee(s).
16.09	Tools
Employees must supply their own tools. The Company agrees to give each employee required to use their own tools a tool allowance of one hundred and fifty ($150.00) dollars every six (6) months, based on their date of hire.
16.10	Knife Sharpening
If the Company does not designate an employee to be a knife sharpener on a shift, the Company agrees to provide sufficient time off, with pay, during the shift for knife sharpening purposes.
16.11	Safety Boots
The Company will reimburse up to one hundred ($100) dollars per year, on the employee’s anniversary date of hire (with the exception that one hundred ($100) dollars shall be paid one time only after six (6) calendar months of employment) toward the cost of safety boots (and earlier due to normal wear and tear and for the Maintenance Department, with approval of the Supervisor). Where the Company has provided metatarsal boots that practice shall continue.
It is understood that employees who receive a boot allowance will leave their work boots at the plant.
16 12	Health and Safety cooperation/ reduction of accidents& injuries
I ergonomics
The Company and the Union agree to cooperate with the Joint Health
22
& Safety Committee to identify and keep track of injuries occurring in the plant with a view to jointly working towards the elimination of all accidents in the workplace. In order to accomplish and work toward this goal, the Company agrees to give copies of all green cards (and/or accident reports if green cards are not available), describing the nature of the injury and the name of the person, date, time, place, etc.
This information shall be given monthly to the Health & Safety Committee, who shall be provided a mutually agreeable time between the Company and the Health & Safety Committee during working hours for the purpose of further investigation or discussion with injured employees, or observe working conditions, and bring the result of their investigation, if warranted, back to Management, with recommendation for proposed changes.
The Company agrees to consider these proposed changes and bring in their experts as required to meet with the Plant Health & Safety Committee to assist in eliminating accidents, proposing ergonomic changes, which the Company may implement.
The Committee, at all times, will encourage employees to work in a safe and productive manner.
SECTION 17 STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
17.01	It is mutually agreed that there shall be no strikes, lockouts, stoppages
of work or slow-downs during the life of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
SECTION 18 UNION REPRESENTATIVE'S VISITS
18.01	A full-time Union Representative, known to the management as the servicing representative will be entitled to service the unit for the purpose of observing working conditions, interviewing members, and to ensure that the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement are being implemented.
18.02	When entering the plant and before visiting the plant, the Union Representative shall contact the management representative and advise that they intend to visit the plant. The Company shall then allow the Chief Steward or designate to accompany the Union Representativeduring such visits. All time spent by the Chief Steward or designate to accompany the Union Representative during such visits shall be considered as time worked.
18.03	Under no circumstances will a Union Representative interrupt, disrupt or stop any employee while engaged in the performance of their duties. If
23
the Union Representative wishes to speak to any employee, permission is required first from the Operations Supervisor or their designate, who shall not unreasonably deny this request.
18.04	When in the plant, the Union Representative will follow and observe all policies governing plant operation.
18.05	The Company agrees to co-operate with the Union Representatives in the discharge of their duties and provide them with the necessary information as it relates to the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
18.06	All time in the Plant spent by the Chief Steward or designate to attend meetings, conduct investigations, or perform any duties related to Union business shall be considered as time worked, provided it is approved by management.
SECTION 19 LEAVES OF ABSENCE
19.01	Shop Stewards, as set out in Section 25, shall be granted time off without pay to attend Union business, up to five (5) days peryear, providingthe Company is given two (2) weeks prior notice of such request. The five day limit will not apply to the Chief Steward, Assistant Chief Steward or member elected to the Executive Board, who shall be granted the time necessary to perform their duties with the Union.
19.02	Personal Leave
The Company agrees to consider personal leave for employees and will respect the employee's privacy for the reasons for applying for the leave.
19.03	Upon two (2) weeks' prior notice in writing from the Union, the Company agrees to grant a leave of absence of up to one (1) year to one (1) employee who is elected or appointed to a full-time position in the Union. Such leave of absence shall be without pay or other benefits, except that seniority shall continue to accumulateto a maximum of one calendar year. The Union agrees to notify the Company at least two (2) weeks in advance of the employee's return to work for the Company.
19.04	Maternity Leave/ Parental Leave / Including Adoption Leave (A) Maternity Leave
A female employee who has been employed by the employer for seven (7) consecutive months or longer, shall be eligible for a granted maternity leave of
24
absence by the Employer. Said employee is required to provide written notice to the Employerwhere possible at least four (4) weeks before the expected birth, but in any event no later than two (2) weeks after they stop working, including a medical certificate stating the estimated date of delivery. Said employee shall be re-employed by the Employer after the birth, and must do so within seventeen (17) weeks unless she wishes to take parental leave immediately following her maternity leave.
Where an employee intends to work immediately following her maternity leave, she must make application, in writing, and give the Employer a minimum of four (4) weeks' notice in advance of the day she intends to return to work. She must provide the Employer with a doctor's certificate, certifying her to be medically fit to work.
Seniority shall accrue during a maternity leave of absence and benefits accumulated prior to said leave shall be maintained.
(B) Parental Leave /Adoption Leave
(1)	Entitlements
Every employee who has been in the employ of the Company for seven (7) months and
(a)	who,
(i)	in the case of a female employee, becomes the natural mother of a child,
(ii)	in the case of a male employee, becomes the natural father of a child or assumes actual care and custody of his newborn child, or,
(iii)	adopts a child under the law of a province; and
(iv)	has been employed by the Employer for seven (7) consecutive months or longer.
(b)	who submits to the Employer an application in writing for parental leave where possible at least four (4) weeks before the day specified in the application as the day on which the employee intends to commence the leave;
is entitled to, and shall be granted parental leave, consisting of a continuous period of up to thirty-seven (37) weeks.
25
(2)	Commencement of Leave
Parental leave must commence no later than the first anniversary date of the birth or adoption of the child or of the date on which the child comes into the actual care and custody of the employee. The employee will decide when his or her parental leave is to commence.
(3)	Late Application for Parental Leave
When an application for parental leave under 19.04(B) (1)(b) above is not made in accordance with 19.04 1(b), the employee is nonetheless entitled to, and upon application to the Employer shall be granted, parental leave under this Section for the full thirty-seven (37) week leave period.
(4)	Reinstatement of Employee
An employee who wishes to resume employment on the expiration of leave granted in accordance with this Section shall be reinstated in the position occupied at the time such leave commenced, or in a comparable position with not less than the same wages and benefits if the positionthey occupied no longer exists.
(5)	E.l. Benefits
Eligible employeeswill be entitled to collect E.l, benefitsin amounts and for a time period as provided for under the E.l. Act.
(6)	Seniority shall accrue during a parental leave of absence and benefits accumulated prior to said leave shall be maintained.
(7)	Benefits provided for in this section are in addition to any and all maternity leave benefits that are available to an employee.
(8)	If the Employment Standards Code changes in the Province of Manitoba this provision is automatically amended to be in accordance with the legislative changes.
26
19.05	Jury Duty
Full-time employees, and part-time employees averaging twenty (20) hours or more per week in the four (4) preceding weeks, summoned to jury duty, shall be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for jury duty and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such days to the maximum of eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week. This does not apply if the employee is excused from jury duty for the rest of the day or days and fails to report back to work, or if jury duty occurs on the employee's scheduled day off.
19.06	Witness Fees
Employees required to appear in Court as a witness on behalf of the Company or the Crown will be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for witness fees and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such days to a maximum of eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week.
Employees appearing as a witness on behalf of the Company on their day off will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours or the amount they would have earned had they worked on such day, as above. This compensation shall be paid at the employee's straight time hourly rate and shall not be considered as payment for time worked.
19.07	Bereavement Pay
(a) All employees shall be granted time off from work, with pay, to a maximum of three (3) consecutive scheduled work days to attend the funeral, in the event of death in the immediate family. The term "immediate family” shall mean spouse or common law spouse, parent or stepparent, child or stepchild, brother or sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparent.
(b) All employees shall be granted time off from work, with pay, to a maximum of one (I) day to attend the funeral, in the event of death of a grandchild, grandparent-in-law, aunt or uncle.
SECTION 20 HEALTH AND WELFARE
20.01	Health and Welfare benefits shall be as contained in Appendix A to
this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
SECTION 21 REPRIMANDS
27
21.01	When an employee in the bargaining unit is subjected to a disciplinary interview (where the Company intends to discipline the employee, such as to be given a written reprimand, suspension, or discharge), said employee shall have a Shop Steward present, or, in the absence of a Shop Steward, an employee from his plant, in the bargaining unit, of the employee's own choice. Should an interpreter be required as a result of the employee known not to understand English, another employee from the same shift who is capable of providing interpretation shall also attend this interview to lend language assistance. It is understood that the interpreter shall be in addition to those mentioned above only if none of those mentioned above are able to provide the interpretation.
21.02	A copy of such disciplinary notice shall be given to a Shop Steward in the plant or be mailed or faxed to the Union office. If a Shop Steward or member is not present as required, or a copy of disciplinary notice is not given to the Shop Steward in the plant, or mailed or faxed to the Union office, the resulting discipline shall not be valid and may not be utilized by the Company. Representation shall not be required in the case of probationary employees or in the event of a suspension pending investigation where no disciplinary interview is held.
21.03	The employee will be given a copy of such reprimand which is to be entered on the employee's personnel file. In unusual circumstances, where it is necessary for the Company to advise an employee by mail of discharge, the Union office will be mailed a copy of such notice by registered mail or transmitted to the Union office by facsimile.
21.04	Removal of Disciplinary References
The Company will remove all disciplinary references from the employee's personnel file provided there has been no further disciplinary action taken against the employee for a period of twenty-four (24) months of employment. This time frame of twenty-four (24) calendar months shall not include the following:
1)	periods of lay-off;
2)	periods of leave of absence without pay;
3)	absences due to illness or injury which exceed thirty (30) continuous calendar days.
SECTION 22 ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
22.01	Any complaint, disagreement or difference of opinion between the
Company, the Union or the employees covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement, which concerns the interpretation, application, operation or alleged violation of the terms
28
and provisions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall be considered as a grievance.
22.02	Information
Where the Union requires information regarding accumulated hours of work for the purpose of establishing the pay rate of an employee, the Company agrees to co-operate to supply such information back to a period of two (2) years or such longer times as may be required to establish his proper rate of pay.
22.03	In any grievance regarding hours worked by an employee and the amount paid to an employee, the Company shall promptly supply such information in respect to the two (2) pay periods immediately prior to the request. If information for a longer period is required, the normal process of the Grievance Procedure shall apply.
22.04	The Union shall not use the foregoing provisionto request information that does not pertain to a specific grievance of an employee.
22.05	Any employee, the Union or the Company may present a grievance. Any grievance which is not presented within fifteen (15) working days following the event giving rise to such grievance, or within ten (10) working days of the last day worked when relating to a discharge grievance, shall be forfeited and waived by the aggrieved party.
22.06	All grievances shall be submitted in writing.
22.07	The procedure for adjustment of grievances and disputes by an employee shall be as follows:
(1)	by a discussion between the employee and the Chief Steward, or Assistant Chief Steward, or Union Representative, or the employee’s immediate superior.
(a)	When an employee takes a grievance to the Chief Steward, or Assistant Chief Steward, or Union Representative, Step One of the Grievance Procedure shall be considered complied with, providing the Chief Steward, or Assistant Chief Steward, or Union Representative files the grievance in writing with the Plant Manager or his designate. The Plant Manager or his designate shall reply to the grievance in writing within five (5) calendar days to the Union Representative. After five (5) calendar days, the Union Representative may proceed to Step Two.
(b)	If an employee takes a grievance to his immediate superior and a satisfactory settlement has not been reached within five
29
(5) calendar days, then:
(2)	The Union Representative or his designate may take the matter up with the Company Official designated by the Company to handle labour relations matters. If the matter is not taken up within ten (10) calendar days of the date the Union received the written reply to the grievance in Step One, it will be deemed to have been abandoned and further recourse to the Grievance Procedure shall be forfeited.
22.08	If a satisfactory settlement cannot be reached, then upon request of
either party, within fourteen (14) calendar days of receiving the final, written decision from either party, but not thereafter, the matter may then be referred to an Arbitrator, selected in accordance with Section 23.
SECTION 23 SELECTION OF AN ARBITRATOR
23.01	After one of the parties indicates they are taking the matter to arbitration, the matter shall be referred to a single Arbitrator as indicated in Section 23.02.
In the interest of settling a grievance prior to an arbitration hearing, either party may request the assistance of a grievance mediator from the Province of Manitoba Conciliation Services. During the life to this Collective BargainingAgreement, the parties may mutually agree to a list of mediators other than the mediators provided from the Province of Manitoba Conciliation Services.
23.02	A grievance shall be referredto the single Arbitrator as indicated below according to the date of the grievance to the following panel of individuals:
(1)	Blair Graham
(2)	Arne Peltz
(3)	Gavin Wood
commencing with the name following the name of the last Arbitrator, and commencing again at the beginning of the panel after coming to the end of the panel. For the purpose of such allocation a case which has been withdrawn from arbitration shall be deemed not to have been withdrawn from arbitration. If in any case the Arbitrator allotted is unwilling or unable to act, the individual whose name follows his in the panel shall be submitted as the Arbitrator.
23.03	Whenever one of the parties refers a matter to arbitration, the matter shall be heard within thirty (30) calendar days for suspension or termination and ninety (90) calendar days for any other matters. The matter shall be heard within that time limit unless both parties mutually agree to a date beyond the thirty (30) calendar day or ninety (90) calendar day requirement, or in the event that none of the three (3) arbitrators listed above
30
are available to meet within the thirty (30) calendar day requirementor ninety (90) calendar day requirement, whichever is applicable. If the parties cannot mutually agree to a date beyond the thirty (30) calendar day requirement, or ninety (90) calendar day requirement, whichever is applicable, the matter shall be referred to the selected Arbitrator who shall have the right to decide on the matter. In no event can a hearing be extended to a period longer than another thirty (30) calendar days. The Arbitrator shall have thirty (30) calendar days to render a decision in regard to any matters dealing with suspension or termination, and ninety (90) calendar days from the last date of the hearing on any arbitration cases referred to him or her other than suspensions or terminations.
23.04	The Arbitrator shall receive and consider such material evidence and contentions as the parties may offer and shall make such independent investigation as he deems essential to a full understanding and determination of the issues involved. In reaching his or her decision, the Arbitrator shall be governed by the provisions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
23.05	In the event of termination, discharge or suspension of an employee, the Arbitrator shall have the right to sustain the Company's action, or reinstate the employee with full, part or no back pay, with or without loss of seniority, or to settle the matter in any way it deems advisable.
23.06	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned.
23.07	The Arbitrator shall not be vested with the power to change, modify or alter any of the terms of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, except as indicated in Section 23.05 above. All grievances submitted shall present an arbitrable issue underthis Collective Bargaining Agreement and shall not depend on or involve an issue or contention by either party which is contrary to any provision of this Collective Bargaining Agreement or which involves the determination of a subject matter not covered by or arising during the term of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
23.08	It is the intention of the parties that this Section shall provide a peaceful method of adjusting all grievances, so that there shall be no suspension or interruption of normal operation, as a result of any grievance. The parties shall act in good faith in accordance with the provisions of Section 22 of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
23.09	The expense and fee of the Arbitrator shall be borne equally by the parties to the arbitration proceedings.
SECTION 24 BULLETIN BOARDS
24.01	The Company agrees that during the term of this Collective Bargaining
31
Agreement, it will allow the Union to install its own Union bulletin board in locations throughout the plant as mutually agreed between the Company and the Union. The purpose shall be to post notices directly related to the employees and any notice other than routine notices must first receive approval of management.
SECTION 25	COMPANY AND UNION CO-OPERATION - SHOP STEWARDS
25.01	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint one (I) Chief Steward and one (1) Assistant Chief Steward for the plant and one (1) Shop Steward per department and one Shop Steward per shift.
25.02	The Union shall inform the Company, in writing, of the names of their Shop Stewards or any changes.
25.03	The Plant Manager or working supervisor shall introduce new employees to the Shop Steward in the Department, who will then arrange time, either during meal or rest periods, to meet with the new employees for the purpose of informing the employees of the general conditions and responsibilities with respect to the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
25.04	Grievance Investigation
The Union Chief Steward, and/or in his absence the Assistant Chief Steward, shall be allowed time off, with pay, during regular working hours, for the purpose of investigating any grievances. The Chief Steward, or Assistant Chief Steward, requesting time off the job to investigate grievances must make their request through their working supervisor. Within one (1) hour of such request the Steward will be released providing the efficiency of the operation will not be affected.
25.05	The Company will permit one (1) steward from the day shift thirty (30) minutes paid time at regular rates to attend new employee orientation meetings to present and explain literature related to Union business and answer any questions new employees may have regarding the Union.
SECTION 26 PAY PERIOD - DIRECT DEPOSIT
26.01	The Company agrees to a weekly pay period for all employees
covered in the bargaining unit. The Company shall pay by direct deposit to the employee’s account in a financial institution of the employee’s own choice. The Company shall give a pay stub breakdown of said weekly payment to the employees at the plant or by mail in the event the employee is not at work.
SECTION 30
MANITOBA FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS. LOCAL 832 EDUCATION AND TRAINING TRUST FUND
32
30.01	The Manitoba Food& Commercial Workers, Local832, Educationand Training Trust Fund shall be as indicated in Appendix “C” of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
SECTION 31	LOCKER SEARCH
31.01	To the extent that lockers are currently provided to employees, it is understood between the parties that such lockers may only be entered in one of the two following circumstances:
(1)	(a) in the presence of the employee, or
(b)	if requested bythe employee, inthe presenceof a Shop
Steward;
(2)	in the presence of a Police Officer.
SECTION 32	APPENDICES
32.01	All Appendices attached to this Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be deemed to be part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the parties.
SECTION 33 NO SEXUAL HARASSMENT
33,01	The Company and the Union agree that the plant should be free of
sexual harassment and the Company and the Union agree to cooperate with each other in preventing and eliminating sexual harassment.
SECTION 34	PREMIUM PAYS
34.01	Lead Hand
The Company and the Union agree that the Company may appoint Lead Hand(s) and shall pay said Lead Hand(s) the Skilled 2 classification rate cf pay with an additional seventy-five (75<t) cents an hour premium. The duties of the Lead Hand(s) shall be as designated bythe Company.
34.02	Night shift
Night shift shall be defined as a shift where the majority of an employee’s scheduled hoursfall between 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. The Company agrees to pay any employee working the Night shift thirty (300) cents per hour in addition to the employee’s regular hourly rate of pay, for all regularly scheduled hours worked, not to include overtime.
33
SECTION 35 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL
35.01	This Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be effectivefrom January I 2006, and shall remain in effect until December 31, 2008 and thereafter from year to
year, but either party may, not less than thirty (30) days nor more than ninety (90) days before the expiry date of this Collective Bargaining Agreement give notice in writing to the other party to terminate this Collective Bargaining Agreement or to negotiate a revision thereof.
On the expiry date of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, as indicated above, if negotiations have not been completed, the Company and the Union agree that this Collective Bargaining Agreement will be extended automatically until:
(1)	an Agreement is reached between the parties hereto;
(2)	a strike is declared by the Union by giving the Company seven (7) calendar days' notice in writing of its intention to declare a strike, or
(3)	a lock-out is declared by the Company by giving the Union seven (7) calendar days' notice in writing of its intention to declare a lock-out.
35.02	All revisions desired by either party to this Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be submitted in writing within ten (10) calendar days of the giving of such notice unless otherwise mutually agreed to between the parties to this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
35.03	When the required notice of termination or revision is given by either party, negotiations in connection with same will be started promptly and expeditiously conducted, so that if it is reasonably possible, same may mutually and satisfactorily be concluded within the notification period.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE DULY EXECUTED THIS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT.
SIGNED THIS	day of	,2006.
34
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE COMPANY:
35
APPENDIX "A'
HEALTH AND WELFARE PLAN, DENTAL PLAN, PENSION PLAN
AJ________________UFCW /MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC. BENEFIT TRUST FUND
(a)	The Company and the Union agreeto a UFCW /Maple Leaf Foods Inc. Benefit Trust Plan to provide health and welfare benefits as decided by the Board of Trustees from time to time.
(b)	The Board of Trustees shall be comprised of three (3) representatives appointed by the Company and three (3) representatives appointed by the Union. Said Trustees can be changed or removed by the parties appointing said Trustees in accordance with the Agreement and Declaration of Trust effective as of June 23rd, 2003.
(c)	The Company agrees to pay a forty (400) cent per hour contribution for all hours worked and paid in the bargaining unit for the same hours paid for pension and dental contributions. Such contributions shall be forwarded to the Trust Fund within twenty-one (21) days following the Company's four or five week accounting period.
It is further recognized that the intention of the Union and the Company is to ensure the financial integrity of the Trust Fund and minimize the potential of the Fund falling into a deficit position. For purposes of this understanding, the Fund will be deemed to be in a deficit position. For purposes of this understanding, the Fund will be deemed to be in a deficit position if the total liabilities and reserves exceed the total assets.
Inthe event that the Fund is determinedto be in a deficit position, or a deficit position is likely to occur, the Company agreesto contribute, in addition to the forty (400) cents per hour indicated above, the sum of money necessary as determined by the Plan's actuary, to rectify the situation. Such additional contributions will not commence before January I ?006.
If and when additional contributions are required as indicated above, said additional contributions will not exceed the amount of twenty (200) cents per hour.
36
A-2
MANITOBA FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS DENTAL PLAN
A-2.01	The Company agrees to make a direct contribution to the "Manitoba
Food& Commercial Workers Dental Plan" of twenty nine (29$ cents per hour for regular hours paid, sick pay (not including weekly indemnity), full time employee's vacation as entitled under Section 14, and General Holidays, to a maximum of the basicworkweek in respect to all employees in the bargaining unit, and if required to maintain the current fee schedule as determined by the Actuary of the Plan to be effective each January 1st, a future increase of up to one (10) cent per hour per year to a maximum of two (20) cents over the term of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
A-2.02	Such contributions will be forwarded to the Trust within twenty-one (21)
days following the Company's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period.
A-2.03	It is agreed that in the event the Government of Canada or the
Province of Manitoba provides a non-contributory Dental Care Plan with similar benefits, the Company's obligations to continue contributions to the Manitoba Food & Commercial Workers Dental Plan shall cease. It is further understood, should a Government Plan create duplicate benefits, then these benefits shall be deleted from the Manitoba Food & Commercial Workers Dental Plan and the Company's contribution in respect to the cost of these benefits shall cease.
A-3___________PENSION PLAN
A-3.01	The Company agrees to contribute to the "Canadian Commercial
Workers Industry Pension Plan" the sum of fifty (500) cents effective January 1,2006 (fifty-five (550) cents effective January 1,2007; sixty-five (650) cents effective January 1,2008) for all straight time hours paid, sick pay (not including Weekly Indemnity), full-time employee's vacation as entitled under Section 14, and General Holidays, for all employees in the bargaining unit and for all probationary employees, to the maximum of forty (40) hours per week and two thousand (2,000) hours per calendar year per employee.
A-3.02	Contributions, along with a list of employees for whom they have been
made, the amount of the weekly contribution for each employee and the number of hours worked or paid according to the above A-3.01, shall be forwarded by the Company within the twenty-one (21) days after the close of the Company's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period. The Company agrees to pay interest at the rate established by the Trustees on all contributions not remitted as stipulated above.
37
B-1
APPENDIX "B"
CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
E
	General 1 & 2 PT	Generali Full-time	General 2 Full-time	Semi-skilled 1 FT &PT	Semi-skilled 2 FT &PT	Skilled 1 FT& PT	Skilled 2 FT & PT
Start rate	8.10	9.85	10.35	10.95	11.70	12.70	13.70
6 months	8.60	10.35	10.85	1 145	12.20	13.20	14.20
12 months	9.10	10.85	11.35	1 195	12.70	13.70	14.70
E
	General 1 & 2 PT	Generali Full-time	General 2 Full-time	Semi-skilled 1 FT &PT	Semi-skilled 2 FT & PT	Skilled 1 FT &PT	Skilled 2 FT &PT
Start rate	8.40	10.15	10.65	11.35	12.15	13.15	14.15
6 months	8.90	10.65	11.15	11.85	12.65	13.65	14.65
12 months	9.40	11.15	11.65	12.35	13.15	14.15	15.15
E
	General I&2 PT	Generali Full-time	General 2 Full-time	Semi-skilled 1 FT & PT	Semi-Skilled 2 FT& PT	Skilled 1 FT& PT	Skilled 2 FT & PT
Start rate	8.65	10.40	10.95	11.75	12.60	13.60	14.60
6 months	9.15	10.90	11.45	12.25	13.10	14.10	15.10
12 months	9.65	11.40	11.95	12.75	13.60	14.60	15.60
38
Trades included in Maintenance Wage Survey	January 1,2006
Journeyman	25.50
Shift Eng.2nd Class papers req	28.90
Trades - Not included in Maintenance Wage Survey	January 1, 2006	January 1,2007	January 1, 2008
Lead Hand/ special machinist	21.99	22.44	22.89
Improvers	20.39	20.84	21.29
Greaser & oiler	19.19	19.64	20.09
Shift Eng. 3rd Class papers req *	21.19	21.64	22.09
Shift Eng. 4th Class papers req	19.59	20.04	20.49
Boilerman (with papers)	19.59	20.04	20.49
Boilerman (no papers)	19.27	19.72	20.17
Temperature man	19.19	19.64	20.09
Should the Employer fill the classification of Shift Engineer 3rd Class papers required then this classification will be included in the Maintenance Wage Survey.
B-2	Trade Apprenticeship Program
In the event that the Company determines a need for an Apprenticeship Program, the following Apprenticeship Program may be implemented at the discretion of the Company.
Trades Apprenticeship Classifications
The licensed trades apprenticeship program and classifications will be offered by the Company for eligible employees according to the rules and regulations of the Province of Manitoba.
Apprentices must comply with all required trade school attendances and pass appropriate examinations.
39
The scale from starting hourly rates of pay is outstanding and to be discussed with all other wages under Appendix B.
B-3 For the purpose of wage increases above, the six-month increase shall be implemented after the completion of one thousand and forty (1,040) hours actually worked, inclusive of statutory holidays and paid vacations. The twelve-month increase shall be implemented on the same basis, after completion of two thousand and eighty (2,080) hours actually worked, inclusive of statutory holidays and paid vacations. The calculation of hours actually worked shall exclude time off for sickness, accident, or any leave not paid by the Company.
B-4 Maintenance and Powerhouse License Renewals
The Company agreesto pay the cost(s) required for employeesto renewtheir current license.
B-5	Maintenance Wage Survey
The Company will do an annual maintenance wage survey comprised of five competitors of its choosing and five industrial employers in the City of Winnipeg identified by the Union. The positions of the required licensed skilled trades as determined by the Company and licensed 3rd Class Stationary Engineer will be benchmarked at each of the identified companies. The job classification rates for each of these positions at each employer will be averaged into one rate. The highest and the lowest rates will then be removed and the remaining eight average rates will be calculated into a simple average. Ifthis average is more than five (5%) percent above the Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc. rate, the Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc. rate will be adjusted to this average. The licensed 4th Class Stationaiy Emgineer rate will be pro-rated to maintain the same spread between 3rd and 4th Class Stationary Engineer's rate. Adjustments under this provision are only applicable to the above named trades.
This survey will be completed in November of each year with any required adjustments effective the first pay period of December. Maintenance rates established under this provision are not subject to the grievance or arbitration process.
40
APPENDIX "C"
MANITOBA FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 832, EDUCATION AND TRAINING TRUST FUND
C-1 The Company agrees to make the following contributions per hour into the Manitoba Food & Commercial Workers Local 832, Education and Training Trust Fund:
100 per hour effective December 31, 2005
The hours for which the Company will contribute said amounts will be the same hours as contributed for the Dental Plan under Section A-2.01, and shall be remitted to the Union in the same manner.
C-2 The purpose of the Manitoba Food and Commercial Workers, Local832, Education and Training Trust Fund is to provide training for members of bargaining units as needed from time to time, either for personal improvement, or in co-operation with the Company, for training as decided by the Union and the Company that would be beneficial to both the Company and the Union members.
41
APPENDIX “D”
JOB TITLES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
HAM BONING						
	Skilled 2 Jobs	Skilled 1 Jobs	Semi-skilled 2 Jobs	Semi-Skilled 1 Jobs	General 2 Jobs	General 1 Jobs
1	Ham Boning Rotation (remove bones from ham)		Skinning Machine Operator	Service Lines		Dump Tubs
2	Knife Sharpener		Whizzard Knife Operator	Femur Bone		General Labour
3			Trim & Seam Hams			
4			QA-HACCP Checkers, Document			
5			Scaler			
CURING
Skilled 2 Jobs
Skilled 1 Jobs
Semi-skilled 2 Jobs
Semi-skilled General 2 1 Jobs	Jobs
General I Jobs
1 Smokehouse Operator
Ham Cook Grind & Tank Operator Massage
2
Ham Formulator
Sausage
Maker
3
Scaler
4
Pickle Maker
5
Suspedtec System Operator
Langen Ham Processing
6
Blending
Operator
Shirmatic
Operator
Stutters
7
Tiromat
Operator
Forklift
Operator
Clean Trees,	General
Trolleys &	Labour
Combs
Grinder
Vat Washer
Ham Presser
Service Lines
Wash
Moulds/Pans
Knocking
Pots
Injectors
Suspedtec
Injector
Linking & Hanging
Pack Ham to Moulds
42
SHIPPING								
	Skilled 2 Jobs	Skilled 1 Jobs		Semi-skilled 2 Jobs		Semi-skilled 1 Jobs	General 2 Jobs	General 1 Jobs
1	Receiver- Raw Meats					Freezer Attendant		Stocker
2		Highlift Operator/ Swing Reach				Shipper		
3						Receiver Assistant -Raw Meats		
								
MISCELLANEOUS								
	Skilled 2 Jobs	Skilled 1 Jobs	Semi-skilled 2 Jobs		Semi-Skilled 1 Jobs		General 2 Jobs	General 1 Jobs
		Receiver-Dry Goods						Janitors
2		Receiver- Packaging Materials			Receiver Assistant - Dry Goods			
PACKAGING						
	Skilled 2 Jobs	Skilled 1 Jobs	Semi-Skilled 2 Jobs	Semi-Skilled 1 Jobs	General 2 Jobs	General 1 Jobs
1			Machine Operators	Service Lines		Wrap & Pack
2			Scaler			
3			QA-HACCP Checker & Document			
SANITATION						
	Skilled 2 Jobs	Skilled 1 Jobs	Semi-skilled 2 Jobs	Semi-skilled 1 Jobs	General 2 Jobs	General 1 Jobs
1			Suspedtec Attendant		Power Truck Operator	
2			Clean & Sanitize			
43
The Company and the Union agree that there may be changes or additions to the list of job titles and classifications. In the event of any changes or additions to Appendix D, the parties agree to discuss the said changes or additions.
D-2 Job Alteration - New Job Introduced
(a)	When changes in production significantly alter jobs or when new jobs are introduced, except for Maintenance Trades, the Company will assess the job(s) and assign the job(s) to the appropriate job classification. Where newjobs are introduced an appropriate time trial not to exceed four (4) months will be applicable to ensure an objective evaluation of the job.
(b)	In making its determination the Company will consider such factors which may include but are not limited to: benchmarking, skill, ability required, complexity, responsibility, working conditions, etc.
(C) The Company agrees to disclose all this information to the Union and criteria in respect to making its determination in regard to changes in jobs and creation of new jobs.
(d)	The Production Manager shall notify the Union and Chief Steward, in writing, of new or significantly changed jobs as soon as possible.
(e)	An employee or the Union who feels a new job classification determined by the Company is not correct may appeal to the Job Evaluation Committee in writing for a review. The appeal must contain the objective facts and/or data that the Job Evaluation Committee will review and take into consideration.
(f)	The Job Evaluation Committee shall be composed of two (2) nominees appointed by the Union and two (2) management representatives appointed by the Company and one independent chairperson. The Union nominees shall consist of a Union Representative or two (2) employees of the bargaining unit. The Committee shall meet within thirty (30) calendar days of an employee objecting to the job classification established by the Company, if that is the case. If the parties agree to an independentchairperson, such chairperson shall be one of the Arbitrators listed in Section 23 unless otherwise mutually agreed. The cost of the chairperson shall be mutually shared by the parties. The Company shall pay for the cost of all the employees, except if one of the Union nominees is a Union Representative.
44
The majority decision of the Job Evaluation Committee is binding on both parties and cannot form the subject matter of the grievance or arbitration process.
(h)
No wages will be reduced or increased until the decision of the Committee is rendered.
The parties agree to resolve job classification issues in the manner described above or through an alternative mutually agreed process.
D-3 All employees occupying the Skilled 2 job “Ham Boning Rotation (remove bones from ham)” must rotate and be able to satisfactorily perform all jobs in the rotation in order to remain on the job.
45
BETWEEN:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC., a body corporate carrying on business in the province of Manitoba (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
AND
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL No. 832, chartered by the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
The purpose of this letter of agreement is to provide clarification regarding previous seniority recognition for employees who were terminated under Part A of the previous Collective BargainingAgreement and availed themselves of the opportunity to be re-employed with Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc., Lagimodiere Facility, Winnipeg, Manitoba.
Specifically, the Company will recognize the previous seniority for the above-mentioned employees accumulated under Part A of the previous Collective Bargaining Agreement for the following purposes:
a)	vacation entitlements;
b)	in regards to job postings;
c)	in regard to lay-off and recall;
d)	on scheduling of hours; and
e)	vacation schedule.
Forall other purposes, said employees shall receive a new seniority date of April 1, 1999.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE DULY EXECUTED THIS LETTER OF AGREEMENT.
SIGNED THIS	day of	,2006.
46
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE COMPANY:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
MAPLE LEAF CONSUMER FOODS INC., a body corporate carrying on business in the province of Manitoba (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
AND
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL No. 832, chartered by the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
The following is the agreement and application between the parties to resolve the implementation issues of Arbitrator Vince Ready’s award of July 12, 2006 as it relates to the Maintenance Wage Survey, etc. Accordingly the following provisions will apply:
A)	MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT:
1)	The Company will undertake an annual survey of base rates of pay (exclusive of premiums and/or any other compensation including allowances of any kind) for the licensed skill trades of millwright and electrician. The survey will be composed of five (5) competitors and/or manufacturing plant employers chosen by the Company and five (5) industrial plant employers chosen by the Union. These employers are to be from within the City of Winnipeg boundary and each must employ both millwrights and electricians.
2)	The highest and lowest base rates of pay from each of these ten (10) employers will be eliminated for each licensed skill trade. The remaining eight (8) for each skill trade will be averaged out. Should this averaged out base rate of pay be more than 5% higher than the plant’s current base rate of pay, then the base rate of pay for that respective skill trade will be adjusted to the averaged rate of pay identified in the survey. It is understood that there may be instances when the survey results will be an increase to both, or to one only, or to neither of these two skill trades.
3)	The survey will be completed during the month of November each year (starting in November2006). Any required adjustments are to be effective in the first pay week in December of each year. These two skill trades’ rates of pay, established under this provision, are not subject to the grievance and/or arbitration processes.
NB:	for clarification purposes, millwright and electrician are referred to as
“Journeyman” in Appendix “B” of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
47
B)	ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT:
1)	The Company will undertake an annual survey of base rates of pay (exclusive of premiums and/or any other compensation including allowances of any kind) for the classification of 2nd Class Power Engineers. The survey will be composed of five (5) competitors and/or manufacturing plant employers chosen by the Company and five (5) industrial plants chosen by the Union. Each of these employers is to be from within the City of Winnipeg boundary.
2)	The highest and lowest base rates of pay from each of these ten (10) employers will be eliminated. The remaining eight (8) will be averaged out. Should this averaged out base rate of pay be more than 5%, then the base rate of pay for 2nd Class Power Engineers will be adjusted to the averaged rate of pay identified in the survey.
3)	This survey will also be completed during the month of November each year (starting in November 2006). Any required adjustment is to be effective in the first pay week in December of each year. The rate of pay established under this provision is not subject to the grievance and/or arbitration processes. In the event the Company hires a 3rd Class Power Engineer, such classification will also become subject to the annual survey in November.
C)	GENERAL:
1)	All other “trades” classifications will not be subject to a survey. These other classifications will receive the same annual increases as Skilled 2 production employees for each year of this settlement.
2)	The Company retains the right to utilize the provisions of Section 12 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement should it deemed this necessary.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE DULY EXECUTED THIS
LETTER OF AGREEMENT.
SIGNED THIS	day of
2006
48
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE COMPANY:
EXHIBIT ONE
TO:	THE NEW OR REHIRED EMPLOYEE:
You are hereby informed that Union membership is a condition of employment and that maintaining good standing in the Union requires payment of Union dues, initiation fees and assessments as authorized by the Union. Sections of the Agreement between the United Food & Commercial Workers Union, Local 832 and Maple Leaf Consumer Foods Inc. contain the following statements:
“The Company agrees to retain in its employ within the bargaining unit, as outlined in Section 1 of this Agreement: only members of the Union in good standing. The Company shall be free to hire or rehire new employees who are not members of the Union, provided said non-members: whether part-time or full-time, shall be eligible for membership in the Union and shall make application on the official membership application form within ten (10) calendar days from date of hire or rehire and become members within thirty (30) calendar days.
The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of the employee such Union dues and initiationfees as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. The Company further agrees to deduct the Union dues automatically from the wages of new or rehired employees’first paycheque(s). Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union within twenty (20) calendar days following the end of the Company’s four (4) or five (5) weeks’ accounting period and accompanied by a four (4) weeks’ or monthly computer magnetictape of the names, Social Insurance Numbers and plant numbers of the employees for whom deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.”
Please complete the attached Membership Application immediately and return it to the Company so they can forward ittotheUFCW, Local 832 Union office (1412 Portage Avenue, Winnipeg MB R3G OV5) within 10 calendar days of your hire or rehire date.
MEMBERSHIP M2k APPLICATION
I
I	■
✓ wm	'
‘ IXIWYSWAU*
il
i< .	•....,.. •	..
rm m ’bmKnmmm#
feiKfcidtfcIm wNmtaifctpMMtd	ate out tn* IIihum ta	mm &xit*?^fee-mektuymmg
Jwwdiiftg of pMKMta* i»d ottHNr oMtfitrt Kteua? w m)	wm,	m	mM tweal	* sassy «y*r	XI1	*iatf*t* I	ha #Si h»t
*n$ ptn #hJ	pt&mnb infaHMliim X	£ Vimmmvi WM*f% \ S*	ptflkrl ft# f $(*#**4
infmi**#** fferI '-mmft*s mymiwvmtm	upfalfKM	saw? % ft« fom. I wmvm	m$«? S!H"W
l<us*fc>to §<*?	|H*$d md I ^ ?&c	\4^	wfti	(pti*!'**!# M* ft***#	w»i?be *84ihifd