GAINERS INC.
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
1986 - 1990
INDEX
'ARTICLE	1	EMPLOYEES	page
ARTICLE	2	PURPOSE	page
ARTICLE	3	grievance PROCEDURE	page
ARTICLE	4	wages	page
ARTICLE	5	rates for new jobs	page
ARTICLE	6	JOB RATES	page
ARTICLE	7	PAY INFORMATION	page
ARTICLE	8	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME	page
ARTICLE	9	pay for paid holidays	page
ARTICLE	10	pay for daily or weekly overtime, and paid holidays worked	page
ARTICLE	11	OVERTIME AND NOTICE	page
ARTICLE	12	daily guarantee and recall	page
ARTICLE	13	REST PERIODS AND MEALS	page
ARTICLE	14	WEEKLY GUARANTEE	page
ARTICLE	15	SENIORITY	page
ARTICLE	16	leave of absence	page
ARTICLE	17	vacations	page
ARTICLE	18	plant closing	page
ARTICLE	19	separation allowances	page
ARTICLE	20	safety and health	page
ARTICLE	21	TOOLS AND CLOTHES	page
ARTicle	22	general	page
ARTICLE	23	management	page
1
3
3
8
10
13
15
15
17
18
19
19
20
22
24
31
33
38
38
41
44
47
50
'ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26 ARTICLE 27 ARTICLE 28 ARTICLE 29
2
SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT CREDITED SERVICE PENSION BENEFITS JURY DUTY BEREAVEMENT DURATION OF AGREEMENT
PAGE 50 PAGE 55 PAGE 58 PAGE 59 PAGE 59 PAGE 60
or who become members of the Union.
2
1.03	If any employee asserts that he has paid his regular monthly Union 'dues and the Union denies same, such assertion shall constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the Grievance Procedure established in this Agreement.
1.04	The Company agrees that it will, upon receipt of written authorization in form'prescribed in Exhibit "B" attached hereto and made a part hereof, deduct from the employee's pay on each pay day in each week in each calendar month during the term of this agreement, the amount of the Union dues and initiation fee determined on such weekly basis so authorized to be deducted, and will transmit the total sum of the amounts so deducted to
the designated official of the Union on or before the fifteenth day of the
, 1 . , , ,
following month. The Union will certify in writing to the Company the amount of the Union initiation fee, the weekly membership dues and the weekly deduction referred to above.
It shall be a	n of employment, that present employees who
are not members of the Union and any future employees including a
V
v
probationary employee, shall become members q£. the Union and will be reguired to sign an authorization form as prescribed in Exhibit "B".
1.05	A written authorization for the deduction of the amount of weekly membership Union dues pursuant to Clause 1.04 above shall be irrevocable by an employee in the bargaining unit.
1.06	In this Agreement, except where specifically stated to the contrary, .orwhere the context shall otherwise reguire, words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender.
1.07	The Company agrees to bargain only with the Union, concerning
- 3 -
employees in the bargaining units described in Exhibit "A".
1.08	The chief steward shall be furnished with the name, the department
'and clock number of each new employee, and of each employee who is to be laid off.
ARTICLE 2 - PURPOSE
2.01	It is the intent of this Agreement to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees and to provide an amicable method of settling grievances which may possibly arise, as well as to set forth conditions of employment, rates of pay and hours of employment to be observed between the parties hereto,
2.02	There shall be no strike, slowdown, stoppage of work, or suspension thereof on the part of the Union or its members employed by the Company or lockouts on the part of the Company.
ARTICLE 3 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
3.01	A grievance committee, not exceeding four (4) in number of regular employees of the Company shall be named by the Union at the Company's plants referred to in this Agreement to handle grievances with Company representatives. The Company shall be kept informed by the Union of the duly authorized committee members.
3.02	The Company shall be kept informed by the Union of the names of the duly authorized department employee Union representatives.
3.03	Employee Union representatives will be allowed the necessary time off (with pay in the first three (3) steps only of the Grievance Procedure set forth in Clause 3.05 for time lost during hours worked by hie gang,
- 4 -
including any applicable overtime penalty) to attend grievance meetings with the Company designated representatives for the purpose of settling 'grievances. If it is necessary for Union representatives to leave their jobs in order to handle a grievance with the Company representatives, they shall not leave their jobs without first securing permission to do so from their respective supervisor, provided that the supervisor will grant such permission as promptly as it is possible without interfering unduly with production.
3.04	The Company recognizes that the chief steward has duties and responsibilities towards and on behalf of the Union and is required at times .to leave his job to investigate and process grievances, or discuss with supervision other matters affecting employees. When it becomes necessary for the chief steward to leave his job to attend to the above matters, he shall not leave his job without first securing permission to do so from his supervisor, provided that his supervisor will grant such permission as promptly as it is possible without interfering unduly with production.
The Company further agrees that such permission shall be granted with no loss of pay including any applicable overtime penalty.
This Clause shall only apply to Union duties conducted on the Company premises.
3.05	should differences arise between xVe Wfofi and its members and the
Company:
a) as to the■‘ntcerinr&cJdjxru, application, administration, or
alleged violation of this Agreement, including whether or not the difference is arbitrable, or
FIRST:
SECOND:
THIRD:
FOURTH:
- 5 -
b) should any local trouble of any kind arise in the plant
pertaining to matters involved in this Agreement or incident to employment relations, an earnest effort will be made to settle all matters promptly in the steps named below:
Between the aggrieved employee or employees and his supervisor.
The aggrieved may be accompanied by his department employee Union representative. If the employee sees fit to handle his own grievance^ tne S’upe'rvi's'b'r wiiY nodty ctite’department employee Union representative before settling the grievance, If the employee fails to present his grievance, the department Union representative may initiate and take up the grievance with the employee's supervisor.
In the event that no conclusion is reached, then between a committee of not more than two employee Union representatives, with or without the aggrieved employee or employees, and two Company representatives including either the Department Supervisor or Division Superintendent, or both.
In the event that no conclusion is reached in the two preceding steps, then between the Grievance Committee who may be accompanied by an outside Union representative, with or without the aggrieved employee or employees, and an equal number of Company representatives, including the Superintendent of the plant or his designated representative or representatives.
In the event that no decision is reached in the first three steps with respect to matters arising under the provisions of Sub-clause (a) of Clause 3.OS hereof, then such matters shall be referred to a
- 6 -
Board of Arbitration. The Board shall be bound by the terms of this Agreement. The Board shall consist of one member appointed by the Union, one appointed by the Company and a third appointed by such two, who shall be the Chairman. Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Plant Superintendent and the Union President, the nominee of one party shall be appointed within thirty (30) days after the date of written notice of the appointment of the nominee of the other party. In the event that a Chairman is not appointed within ten (10) days after both nominees have been appointed, the Chairman, who shall be someone other than a Civil Servant, shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour in the Province of Alberta.
3.06	Cases not settled in the first step of the Grievance Procedure shall be presented to the Company in writing.
3.07	When a settlement or decision is reached at any step of the Grievance Procedure after being presented in writing, the settlement or decision shall be signed by both parties, and shall be final and binding, and shall not be reopened. The settlement shall be signed on behalf of the Union by the President, the chief steward or other Union representative designated in writing by the President of the Union.
3.08	Both the Company and the Union recognize and emphasize the desirability of applying the Grievance Procedure established in Clause 3.05 hereof in a satisfactory manner, with the objective of settling as many grievances as early in the Grievance Procedure as possible.
3.09	When a grievance which involves the proper classification concerning the rate of an employee is subsequently settled, and as a result of such settlement the wages of the employee are increased, such increase
7
shall be made retroactive to the date on which the error in classification was made.
'3.10	If an employee is dismissed for any reason whatsoever and feels
that he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall, within 72 hours from receipt of notice of dismissal, notify the Grievance Committee, which shall, within 24 hours, notify the Company in writing. The dismissal shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to Grievance Procedure. if subsequently, it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he shall be reinstated in his former position and shall be compensated for all time lost at his regular rate of pay, less any money he earned in other employment.
In computing the 72-hour and 24-hour time limits referred to above, calendar Saturdays, calendar Sundays, and paid holidays set forth in Clause
8.03	shall be disregarded.
3.11	When an employee is suspended, dismissed or given written discipline, the Company shall have a Union representative present at the time of the action, provided a Union representative is available in the plant.
The Company shall notify the department steward or his designated representative of the action within one working day if a Union representative was not present. .
3.12	Upon the expiration of three years from the date of the occurrence upon which a disciplinary entry or adverse reference to an employee's conduct was entered in the employee's personal file, the Company will be precluded .from using such entry or reference in any disciplinary action.
8
ARTICLE 4 - WAGES
4.01	For all hourly employees who were hired by the Company prior to
1 June 11 1984, who were in its employ as of May 31, 1986 and who are on its payroll on or after December 14, 1986, the starting rate, and the authorized wage rates for the various job classifications, shall be as set out in Column 1 of Part I of Exhibit "D", effective the dates as set out therein, provided that such employees shall, while on jobs carrying the unskilled labour rate, be paid nine (9) cents per hour less than the authorized wage rate while completing the first seven (7) weeks of accumulated service with the Company, and shall be paid four (4) cents per hour less than the authorized wage rate while completing the next following six (6) weeks of accumulated service with the Company. With respect to the aforementioned employees, the unskilled labour rate at the plants referred to in Exhibit "A" shall be $11.99 per hour effective December 14, 1986, $12,35 per hour effective January 1, 1989 and $12,72 per hour effective January 1, 1990.
4.02	For all hourly employees who were hired by the Company during the
period from June 1, 1984 to May 31, 1986, inclusive, who were in its employ as of May 31, 1986, who had completed as of May 31, 1986 a probationary period of ninety (90) work days, and who are on the Company's payroll on or after December 14, 1986, the starting rates, and the authorized wage rates for the various job classifications , shall be as set out in Column 2 of Part I of Exhibit "D", effective the dates as set out therein. Such employees shall receive a wage rate increase of seventy-five (75) cents after each six (6) inutiCiYirF'*—-cheuTctiirseT.^'itB Stche.i/1 ’ uaiid	wu.e'j resets the
authorized wage rate being paid to employees hired by the Company prior to

9
June 1) 1984. Such increases shall be effective as of the commencement of the payroll week next succeeding the completion of such credited service. With respect to the aforementioned employees, the unskilled labour rate at the plants referred to in Exhibit "A" shall be $7.00 per hour effective December 14, 1986, $7.21 per hour effective January 1, 1989 and $7.43 per hour effective January 1, 1990.
4.03	All hourly employees who (i) are hired by the Company on or after
December 14, 1986, or (ii) are on the Company's payroll on or after December 14, 1986 and who were not in the Company's employ for a period of at least 120 calendar days prior to May 31, 1986 (but excluding herefrom any employees who as of May 31, 1986 had completed a probationary period of ninety (90) work days) shall receive a starting wage rate which is from time to time equal to the general labour wage rate set out in Part II of Exhibit "D", less fifty (50) cents per hour while completing the first six I6L calendar months of service. Such employees shall receive a wage rate increase of fifty (50) cents per hour after six (6) calendar months of service after their date of hire, which increase shall be effective as of the payroll week next succeeding the completion of such credited service. Upon completion of the said period of six (6) calendar months of service, the employee shall be assigned to one of the job classifications at the wage rate set forth in Part II of Exhibit "D". If an employee is assigned to a higher classification (namely, any job classification other than General Labour) while completing his first six calendar months of service, he shall receive the wage rate specified from time to time for such jobclassification less 50 cents'per hour, while completing his first six (6) calendar months of service.
10
4.04	The Company's Authorized Wage Rate Schedule which is annexed hereto as Exhibit I'D'' shall form a part of this agreement. Part I of Exhibit D sets out job classifications and wage rates therefor for the hourly employees who are covered by the provisions of clauses 4,01 and 4,02 of this collective agreement. Part II of Exhibit D sets out job classifications and wage rates therefor for the hourly employees who are covered by the provisions of clause
4.03	of this collective agreement.
4.05	Thirty-five (35) cents per hour additional compensation will be paid for work performed by employees between the hours of 6 P.M. and 6 A.M..
4.06	An employee shall receive one and one-half (14) times his regular rate for all hours worked on his sixth consecutive day worked in his scheduled work week provided he does not receive additional compensation pursuant to Article 10 or Clause 12.03 of this Agreement.
4.07	An employee shall receive two (2) times his regular rate for all hours worked on his seventh consecutive day worked in his scheduled work week provided he does not receive additional compensation pursuant to Article 10 or Clause 12.03 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - RATES FOR NEW JOBS
5.01	The Company will establish and put into effect the rate for a new
job and notify the chief steward of the Union. For the purpose of this
- 11 -
Clause, a new job is defined as a job for which no rate is set forth in the Authorized Wage Rate Schedule.
5.02	In case the Company and the Union cannot reach agreement on the new rate, the Union shall give written notice to the Superintendent of the plant concerned stating the basis of disagreement. If notice of disagreement is not received within sixteen (16) days after the job and the new rate has been put into operation, the rate set by the Company will be considered to be an agreed rate.
5.03	Upon a notice of disagreement being given, the Vice-president of Operations of the Company, or his representative, will negotiate with the chief steward, or his representative, concerning rates for the new job. Any decision reached at this level shall be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
5.04	If no agreement is reached pursuant to Clause 5,03. then the question shall be referred to the President of the Company and the President of the Union for a resolution. Any decision reached at this level shall be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
5.05	If no agreement is reached pursuant to Clause 5.04, the difference
may be referred to arbitration in a manner to be agreed upon by the President of the Company and the President of the Union.	If such method of arbitration
cannot be agreed to within thirty (30) days of the date of referral, an Arbitration Board shall be established in the manner prescribed in Clause 3.05, Fourth Step, of this Agreement.
- 12 -
5.06	In reaching a decision, the Arbitration Board, or a single Arbitrator, or the parties concerned, shall have only the authority to consider:
i)	the existing bracket in the Company wage rate structure and wage rate pattern, for jobs which require the skill the same as or comparable to that required by the new job; and
ii)	the existing job rate paid for the same or similar jobs being
performed in other meat packing plants.
5.07	In the event the Arbitrator decides that the rate for the new job is not consistent with the existing wage rate structure, the Company will establish another rate consistent with the Arbitrator's award.
5.08	Where the rate for a new job has been agreed to by the parties, the Company will furnish to the Union new pages for the authorized wage rate schedule wherein such rates are listed.
5.09	a) When a rate is established for a new job and the rate is less
than the authorized rate in effect for a job which existed and which is replaced by the new job (hereinafter called the "old job"), any employee who was assigned to the old job at the time of the establishment of the new job and who is assigned to,the new job shall, so long as he is assigned to the new job, continue to receive the authorized rate which was in effect for the old job. The Company agrees to furnish the Chief Steward with the name and check number of an employee who is receiving the authorized rate which was in effect for the old job.
13 -
b) When as a direct result of the introduction of new equipment, a job is discontinued and the encumbent is transferred to a lower-rated job, his rate shall not be reduced for a period of one year.
5.10	Where the Union has filed notice of disagreement under Clause 5.02
hereof and a higher rate for the new job is subsequently decided upon or determined, such higher rate shall take effect on the date the notice of disagreement was received by the local Superintendent.
ARTICLE 6 - JOB BATES
6.01	Employees shall receive the applicable wage rates provided for in the wage rate schedule for the job or jobs they perform, except in the case of learners, and employees who are now paid on a more favourable basis.
6.02	When an employee is regularly assigned to more than one job he shall be paid an hourly wage rate determined by bringing into account the actual percenAge'or* ihi3aie worked on the ’ni^nest ratfea jo'd , and the balance of the time worked on the next highest rated job. An employee working fifty (50) percent or more of his time regularly on the highest rated job shall be paid that rate.
6.03	When an employee is required temporarily to fill a" higher rated job, he shall receive the higher rate, but if required temporarily to fill a lower rated job, he shall receive his regular rate. when an employee temporarily works fifty (50) percent or more of his time on a higher rated job in a payroll week, he shall be paid the higher refe for s22 hours worked during such payroll week. When the employee temporarily performs work on
- 14 -
two or more higher rated jobs, the weighted average of the rates of such jobs shall be the "higher rate" for the purpose of the second sentence of this 'Clause.
6.04	When an employee is assigned to a lower rated job because of a'gang
reduction, or gang re-arrangement, he shall be paid the authorized rate of the job to which he was regularly assigned immediately prior to such gang reduction or gang rearrangement, for any work performed by him on lower rated jobs during such times, if any, as he is on the payroll during the next twelve (12) calendar weeks. Should the employee be returned temporarily to his former regular job during the aforesaid twelve calendar week period, for any periods of less than three (3) consecutive weeks, the number of days so spent on his former job shall be added to the aforesaid twelve calendar week period. At the expiration of such twelve (12) calendar week period and the number of days, if any added thereto, the employee shall be paid the authorized rate of the job to which he is then regularly assigned. This clause shall not apply to any subsequent change in assignment because of a gang reduction or gang rearrangement which occurs at a time when an employee's former regular rate is being maintained because of the application of the first two sentences of this Clause 6.04 in connection with a previous gang reduction or gang rearrangement. However, should the employee be returned temporarily to his former job for a period of three (3) consecutive weeks or more, the twelve (12) week period will recommence from the day he again returns to a lower rated job.
ARTICLE 7 - PAY INFORMATION
15
7.01	The present method of distributing pay to the employees shall continue in effect throughout the period of this Collective Agreement.
7.02	Employee's gross earnings, regular hours, overtime hours, regular rate of pay, overtime rate of pay, temporary hours, temporary rate of pay, sickness and accident hours and rate, for each pay period, as well as all payroll deductions, net earnings, accumulated calendar year gross earnings and accumulated calendar year income tax deductions, shall be shown conspicuously on his pay envelope or pay slip.
7.03	The amount of the Union dues paid by an employee during a taxation year shall be shown on the employee's Statement of Remuneration Paid, Form T4, Supplementary, or such other similar form furnished by the Federal Income Tax authorities.
ARTICLE 8 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
8.01	Definitions set forth in this Article shall be for the purpose of Articles 9 and 10, Clauses 11.04 and 13.02 to 13.05 inclusive and Clauses
14.01	to 14.07, inclusive, and Clause 14.09.
8.02	"Shift Operators" shall mean those regular hourly rated employees who, because of the nature of their duties, work continuously from starting to quitting time, and eat lunch on the job on Company time. Examples are: Engineers, Fireman, Oilers, Smokers, Tankmen, etc.
8.03	During the term of this Agreement, it is agreed that there shall be ■in each year of the Collective Agreement eight (8) paid holidays and two (2)
floating holidays. In order to accommodate production requirements, the
16 -
provisions of the Alberta Employment Standards Act and the wishes of the employees, it is agreed that the following days shall be observed in the 'following procedure:
(a)	The following shall be paid holidays with the meaning and
subject to the terms of this Collective Agreement:
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day
New Year's Day Good Friday Canada Day
(b) The
set
(1)
(2)
following shall be observed in accordance with the below
out formula:
Remembrance Day Victoria Day
Employees shall be paid at their regular rate for all hours worked on Remembrance Day 1987, 1988 and 1989 and on Victoria Day 1987, 1988, 1989 and 1990.
During the currency of the Collective Agreement, Boxing
Day in'1986, 1987, 1988 and 1989 and the first Monday of
August in 1987, 1988, 1989 and 1990 shall be deemed as the respective day of holiday for Remembrance Day in 1986i 1987, 1988 and 1989 and Victoria Day in 1987, 1988, 1989 and 1990. Pay for the Boxing Day and the first Monday in August and the below set out Floating Holidays shall be calculated in accordance with the provisions of this Collective Agreement dealing with paid holidays.
17
(c) In addition, each employee:
(1) Who is on the payroll May 18, 1987, May 23, 1988, May 22, 1989 and May 21, 1990 shall have a floating holiday to be
taken at a time to be agreed between the Department Supervisor and the employee, or failing agreement, by the Company at some day in the immediately succeeding twelve (12) months.
(2) Wio ia on the payroll November ii, 'XW7, 1988 and 1989
shall have a floating holiday to be taken at a time to be agreed between the Department Supervisor and the employee, or failing agreement, by the Company at some day in the immediately succeeding twelve (12) months.
8.04	A shift operator's day shall be a period of twenty-four (24)
consecutive hours from his normal starting time, except when such starting time is changed due to rotating of shifts.
ARTICLE 9 - PAY FOR PAID HOLIDAYS
9.01	Subject to the provisions of Clause 9.02, all employees shall be
paid their applicable rate of pay for eight (8) hours on each paid holiday which occurs during a payroll week in which the Company otherwise becomes obligated to make a payment to them for work performed during said payroll week. New employees who commence work in a payroll week in which a paid holiday occurs shall not receive any payment under this clause if the paid holiday occurred prior to the date of commencement of work in that week. An employee shall not receive any payment under this clause unless he has
18
completed his last scheduled work day preceding, and his first scheduled work day following the paid holiday, and the paid holiday if so scheduled. An 'employee who is absent shall not be disqualified from pay for which he would otherwise be qualified under this Clause if at the time of such absence he is hospitalized, is receiving Workmen's Compensation benefits, or is receiving sickness and accident pay under Article 24 hereof.
9.02	Regular employees drawing sickness and accident pay under Article 24 hereof for the day of the paid holiday, shall receive under this Article only the amount by which the pay for the paid holiday hereunder exceeds such sickness and accident pay.
9.03	If any of the paid holidays set forth in Clause 8.03 occur while an employee is on an excused absence without pay to attend a Union function such as a Union conference, a Union convention or any negotiation of this Collective Agreement, he shall be paid eight (8) hour's pay at his regular rate of pay. .
ARTICLE 10 - PAY FOR DAILY OR WEEKLY OVERTIME,
______________AND PAID HOLIDAYS WORKED____________
10.01	One and one-half times the regular rate shall be paid to all
employees for all hours worked on a paid holiday; and,

EITHER
10.02	One and one-half (1^) times the regular rate shall be paid to
employees for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) in their scheduled
work week, excluding hours compensated for as provided in Article 9 and 'Clauses 10.01, 27.01 and 28.01.
OR
- 19 -
10.03	One and one-half (1%) times the regular rate shall be paid to shift operators and regular hourly rated employees for hours worked in excess of
'eight (8) in a day. Hours compensated for in Clause 10.01, are not to be included under this Clause 10.03.
10.04	After calculating separately the amounts determinable as provided in Clauses 10.02 and 10.03 respectively, the greater of the amounts only shall be paid, not both, in addition to the compensation payable under Clause 10.01.
ARTICLE 11 - OVERTIME AND NOTICE
11.01	Because of fluctuating livestock receipts and variable volume, it is recognized by both parties that employees may be required to work in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day or forty (40) hours in any one week, but no employee will be required to work an unreasonable number of hours.
11.02	The Company agrees to the principle of equal distribution of work hours within departments and throughout the plant whenever practicable.
11.03	The Company agrees to use every reasonable effort to give employees as much notice of overtime as possible except in cases of emergency.
11.04	Shift operators shall be given six (6) calendar days' notice of change of shift except in emergency.
ARTICLE 12 ~ DAILY GUARANTEE AND RECALL
12.01	An employee called to work and who by reason of some breakdown in the plant or other cause for which he is not responsible, is dismissed for the day, shall receive for that day at least four (4) hours' pay at his applicable rate.
20
12.02	A regular employee other than a shift operator who starts a new day's work in accordance with his pre-arranged starting time prior to the 'expiration of twelve (12) hours from the completion of his previous day's work shall be paid for all time worked within such twelve (12) hour period at one and one-half (1%) times his applicable rate.
12.03	When after once going home, an employee is recalled to work before
his pre-arranged starting time, he shall be paid as follows for the time worked by him on recall prior to his pre-arranged starting time:	,-/
his regular rate, or the rate payable to him under other Clauses of this Agreement, and one-half times his regular rate. such recall he shall be guaranteed pay as follows for three
a)
b)
On
1)	as above for the time actually worked. .
2)	his regular rate for the additional time required to make up three hours.
The provision in (b) of this paragraph shall not apply to work on an employee's seventh consecutive day worked in his scheduled work week, holidays, or an employee's designated day of rest in lieu of his seventh consecutive day worked.
ARTICLE 13 - REST PERIODS AND MEALS
13.01	The Company agrees to grant one rest period of fifteen (15) minutes .at a time determined by the Company during each half shift, provided the working time of the half shift exceeds two and one-half (2*5) hours. The Union agrees that there shall be no abuse in regard to relief or rest periods.
21
13.02	An employee who is required to work more than one and one-half (14) hours' overtime in any day, except on his sixth or seventh consecutive day of work in his scheduled work week, shall be furnished a hot meal whenever practicable and allowed thirty (30) minutes off, with pay, at his applicable rate, to eat such meal, providing the employee eats it on-the Company's •premises, However, if not practicable to provide said meal the employee will receive Five ($5.00) Dollars cash allowance and thirty (30) minutes paid time at the employee's applicable rate. An employee required to work in excess of two and one-half (24) hours after the aforesaid hot meal shall be entitled to a rest period, in accordance with Clause 13.01. An employee required to work in excess of four (4) hours after said meal shall be furnished with a second meal where practicable. Hours worked on recall shall not be included in computing the number of hours in a day.
An employee who is required to work more than five (5) hours on his sixth or seventh consecutive day of work in his scheduled work week shall, except where the employee has been notified on or before the previous day that he will be required to work in excess of five (5) hours on his sixth or seventh consecutive day of work in his scheduled work week, be furnished with a hot meal where practicable on the same conditions as set forth above. The employee will, however, be entitled to a hot meal where practicable if he is required to work more than one and one-half (14) hours in excess of an eight (8) hour day.
This Clause 13.02 shall not be applicable to a shift operator.
■13.03 A shift operator who works his entire regular shift and is required to work more than one and one-half (14) hours beyond his regular shift, shall be furnished a hot meal whenever practicable after the end of his regula^
shift.
- 22 -
13.04	A shift operator who is required to work an entire shift beyond his regular shift shall be furnished a second hot meal whenever practicable after the twelfth (12) consecutive hour worked in any day.
13.05	Shift operators shall be entitled to eat lunch on Company time.
ARTICLE 14 -WEEKLY GUARANTEE
14.01	The Company guarantees to each full time hourly paid employee pay equivalent to thirty-seven (37) hours of work at his regular rate of pay for each week of work for the Company subject to the rules of e ligibility set forth in Clauses 14.02 to 14.07 inclusive.
14.02	During any week an employee is absent, tardy, or excused for personal reasons he shall have his thirty-seven (37) hour guarantee reduced
by the number of hours that he missed by such absence.
14.03	An employee who is hired after the first day of the work week shall
be guaranteed at his regular rate of pay that fraction of the hours received by his gang as guarantee pay which the hours he	in that week are of
the hours worked by his gang.
14.04	An employee who is hired on the last day of the work week shall not be eld^ihle for any guarantee pay,
14.05	a) An-employee at work who has three or more years'seniority shall not be laid off until he has received notice of the layoff and has earned or been paid after such notice thirty-six (36) hours' pay at his regular rate of pay, subject to the balance of the provisions of this Article 14, An employee who has received such notice may be required to work
- 23 -
until the end of the work week in which such notice expires without any obligation on the Company to give additional notice of layoff. Any such employee shall be ineligible for the weekly guarantee in either. the week in which the notice is given or the week in which it expires. This Clause shall not apply to an employee choosing a layoff in lieu of being assigned a comparable job in another seniority department.
b)	An employee subject to layoff who has three or more years' seniority and who is not at work at the time notice of layoff is issued shall be notified of such layoff by registered letter sent to him at his last known address. .
c)	Probationary employees and employees who have less than three
(3)	years' seniority may be laid off at any time without notice and if laid off shall not have any weekly guarantee entitlement under the provisions of this Article in the week that they are laid off.
14.06	When it is apparent that a gang is going to be paid guarantee pay in any week, it is permissible to use all of the gang on comparable work in order to avoid the excess time penalty, provided the work does not involve any extreme changes in working conditions.
14.07	If only part of the employees in any gang receiving guarantee pay can be gainfully employed, they shall be entitled to any guarantee pay due their gang, plus whatever they earn,, provided they have been present each work day as ordered, have worked all hours they have been ordered to work, and have done the work assigned to them whether within or without their own department.
24
14.08	The parties understand and agree that the foregoing guarantee provisions are based on pay and not on hours of work and that the Company has 'fully complied with the provisions of this guarantee when an eligible employee has been paid a sum of money egual to his regular rate of pay for thirty-seven (37) hours including compensation paid to him in excess of his straight time regular rate of pay for hours of productive work under this Collective Agreement including the operation of Clauses 4.04 and 4.05 and Articles 9, 10, 12 and 28.
14.09	When two paid holidays occur in a work week, one of which falls and is observed on a Sunday, the pay for the hours paid for but not worked on the
.holiday which falls on the Sunday, will’not be used for the purpose of computing weekly guarantee.
ARTICLE 15 - SENIORITY
15.01	In this Article:
"Department" shall mean Seniority Department;
"Seniority Department" shall mean a department or group of departments having a common seniority list;
"Qualified" when applied to an employee's ability to perform a job, shall mean that the employee is qualified for the job which is available or can learn the job within a reasonable time.
Seniority will operate on a combination departmental and plant
There will be department and plant seniority lists for employees.
An employee shall acquire department and plant seniority rights
15.02 basis.
15.03
15.04
when he has obtained six (6) calendar months of service. An empi0yee who is not subject to the wage provisions of said Clause 4.03 shall acquire 'department and plant seniority rights when he has worked ninety (90) days.
Until an employee has acquired seniority rights, hereunder, he shall be considered a probationary employee and may be separated from the Company's employ at any time without reference to seniority and the Company shall be under no obligation to rehire him. However, if an employee is continued in his employment after accumulating such service, his seniority shall be accumulated from the original date of his employment.
15.05	Seniority departments as now set up will remain in effect until otherwise agreed upon between the Plant Superintendent and the Union. Department seniority of each employee will remain in effect unless a regrouping of seniority departments is otherwise agreed upon between the Plant Superintendent and the Union.
15.06	Seniority lists shall be posted by the Company in the Plant. Plant seniority lists shall be brought up-to-date every three (3) months and shall be completely revised the first day of May in each year. A copy of the seniority list will be given to the chief steward.
15.07	For the purpose of these seniority provisions only, time that an employee is on lay-off (up to twenty-four (24) consecutive months only) shall be credited to both his department and plant seniority, provided that the employee has acquired department and/or plant seniority rights.
15.08	Layoffs in a department in the case of employees with seniority .shall be according to department seniority except that the employee who is to be retained must be qualified to perform the job.
- 26 -
15.09	An employee having plant seniority who is laid off in his own department may choose between being assigned to best advantage (due 'consideration being given to skill, experience and the time required to learn the job) or taking a layoff. An employee who is laid off or assigned to best advant^fe-untifer'this Clause, shall indicate on a form provided by the Company his preference as to work which he will accept in another department if such work becomes available.
15.10	An employee who has been so assigned from his original department
10	auu1 the T department or atfpHVX.*iiieirL*5r	in:xi.i;uJirLc one uhnafea Jand eighty
(180) consecutive calendar days shall decide whether to transfer his accumulated department seniority to the new department or retain these rights
i.n. h.i js	This	with fchfl.da*-
and the employee's signature.
15.11	Where an employee is temporarily loaned from one seniority department (the "original seniority department") to another, the loan will be made in the case of probationary employees on the basis of accumulated plant service and in the case of employees with seniority on the basis of department seniority so that probationary employees with the least accumulated plant service shall be the first to be loaned next followed by employees with the least department seniority.
Provided that any employee who is loaned hereunder is qualified for the job to which he is temporarily loaned.
And provided further, that the employees remaining in the original seniority department shall be qualified to operate the production machinery in that department that would otherwise have been operated by the employee
loaned hereunder.
- 27
15.12	When a job is permanently eliminated within a department, employees so displaced shall be eligible for any remaining job within the department in 'accordance with department seniority, even if it should involve gang
re-arrangement; provided, however, that any employee so displaced is qualified to perform the job.
15.13	Seniority departments will be increased in the following manner, provided there is no increase in the plant working force:
By calling back in order of department seniority those employees who are qualified. Any employee who has been assigned from his original department to another department who refuses a recall to his original department as provided in this paragraph, shall be deemed to have transferred his accumulated department seniority to the new department at the expiration of one hundred and eighty (180) consecutive calendar days from the date of his assignment to the new department. The employee's .decision shall be in writing « the date and the employee's signature.
The plant working force will be increased in the following manner: By calling back in order of plant seniority those employees who are on layoff and who at the time of layoff requested the Plant Superintendent in writing that they be recalled for any job for which they are qualified; and provided, in the case of each such employee, that he is qualified to perform the job.
By calling back in order of department seniority those employees who are on layoff and who have department seniority in the department being increased and provided, in the case of each such employee, that he is qualified to perform the job.
15.1A
FIRST:
SECOND:
THIRD:
'FOURTH:
15.15
- 28 -
By implementing employees' requests for transfers pursuant to Clause 15.16(b).
By calling back according to accumulated plant service those employees who are on layoff and who have neither plant seniority nor department seniority; provided that such employees at the time of layoff requested the Plant Superintendent in writing that they be recalled for any job for which they are qualified in the seniority department; and provided, in the case of each such employee, "tnflchre Ji's quai-Wi'et!’to perform the job.
a)	Where a permanent job vacancy occurs within a seniority
department, notice of such job vacancy shall be posted within that department «r pwitrcd i/t*	'iruc/rs. An
employee within that seniority department shall be permitted, at his request, to fill the said vacancy, on the basis of -ability, merit and department seniority, notwithstanding that the said vacancy may carry a higher, a lower, or the same authorized wage rate. It is understood that where ability and merit are sufficient, department seniority shall prevail in the application of the preceding sentence, Permanent job vacancies which cannot be filled within the department shall be posted on a plant basis, An employee within the plant shall be permitted, at his request, to fill the said vacancy, on the basis of ability, merit and plant seniority. A copy of plant postings, other than department postings, shall be given to the chief steward. An employee who was absent due to
- 29 -
sickness, accident, or vacation when a vacancy is filled shall receive equal consideration, provided the employee makes his request within seventy-two (72) hours after his return to work.
b)	Where a temporary job vacancy occurs within a seniority
department, employees within-that seniority department shall be permitted, at their request, to fill the said vacancy on the basis of ability, merit and department seniority provided the temporary job vacancy carries a higher authorized wage rate. Where ability and merit are sufficient, department seniority shall prevail:
15,16	a) Employees will be transferred from one seniority department to another at the Company's request. Employees transferred from one seniority department to another will carry their accumulated department seniority with them. No permanent transfer from one seniority department to another shall be made except with the consent of the employee involved, which shall be in writing. A copy of the employee's written consent will be forwarded to the chief steward.
b) Employees with more than one year of seniority may apply for a transfer to a permanent job opening in another seniority department. Employees requesting such transfer will receive the transfer before any new employee is hired by the requested department. Employees transferred from one seniority department to another will carry their accumulated department seniority with them. Employees must wait at least one (1)
full year between transfers.
- 30 -
15.17	The seniority of the employee shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited, and no obligation on the Company to rehire when he:
a)	voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or is discharged for cause;
b)	fails to return to work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company;
c)	has been out of employment by the Company for a period of twenty-four (24) months or longer due to lack of work.
15.18	In increasing working forces according to seniority, employees laid off will be notified, at their last known address, and they will be expected to report as directed. Failure to do so shall result in the forfeiture of their seniority rights, provided, however, that in the case of inability to report as directed, upon immediate notification to the Company, they will be given seven '(7) additional days in which to report. Employees who are unable to report within this seven-day period because of sickness or accident will be given additional time within which to report, such time not to exceed the period that such disability, as shown by acceptable medical evidence, prevents their return to work. The Company shall be considered as having fulfilledits obligations to give the notice required by this Clause by sending notice to .the employee's last known address on the Company's records by registered mail.
15.19	Except as otherwise provided, the plant seniority of any employee who transfers from any plant of the Company to another shall be determined as -from the date on which the employee first entered the service of the Company, provided that this is agreeable to the Company and the Local Union involved.
- 31 -
15.20	An employee having acquired department or plant seniority who is later employed by the Company on other than a temporary basis outside the 'bargaining units set out in Exhibit "A" hereto, when subsequently returned to a bargaining unit, shall have seniority as follows:
a)	Department seniority shall accumulate from the date of the employee's return to the bargaining unit. When an employee has been returned three (3) years he shall be credited with seniority from his original date of employment.
b)	If the employee returned to the bargaining unit within six (6) months of departure then department seniority shall accumulate from the original date of his employment.
c)	Plant seniority shall accumulate from the original date of his employment.
15.21	Where practicable and where a rotation of shifts is not carried on, an employee, at his request, will be permitted to change from one shift to another within his gang arrangement in accordance with his department seniority.
15.22	Effective as of June 1, 1982, the hourly paid employees, employed at the Edmonton, Alberta, Meat Packing Plant, Local 280—P and at the Edmonton, Alberta, Food Service Division, Local 280-P shall'have plant and department seniority within the individual plant where employed and shall not have seniority on a 'combined basis.
ARTICLE 16 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
16.01	Leave of absence for the purpose of this Agreement is defined to mean an absence from work with permission for a period of seven (7) days or more without pay or compensation of any kind.
16.02	Employees, not to exceed four (4) from any one plant, who are elected or appointed to a full time position with the Union, the Canadian 'Labour Congress, or with a labour organization with which the Union is affiliated in the Province of Alberta, shall, upon fifteen (15) days' notice to the Company, be granted a leave of absence, without pay, not to exceed the period of this Agreement, and upon one (1) week's notice received by the Company prior to the expiration of this Agreement of their desire to return again to work for the Company shall be placed in either the job previously held by them or, at the Company's discretion, in a job of equal pay, without loss of seniority or vacation rights, and provided they are capable of ,performing the work. It is understood that no such employee will be granted a vacation or vacation pay while in the service of the Union on such leave of absence, and if absent more than six (6) months during any calendar year shall forfeit all unexercised vacation rights for that year. If any such employee neither returns to work nor applies in writing for a renewal of his leave of absence before the 1st day of October, 1990, or the termination date of any renewal of this Agreement by virtue of Article 29 hereof, he shall forfeit all rights under this and all other Clauses of the Agreement.
16.03	Leave of absence, without pay, beyond regular vacation to which an employee is entitled may be granted for good and sufficient'reason on-the basis of the length of credited service, as follows:
Length of Service	Length of Absence
Under 10 years	1 month
Over 10 and under IS years	2 months
Over 15 years
3 months
33
16.04	Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing an employee to take another position temporarily, try out new work, or venture 'into business for himself.
16.05	An employee elected to public office with duties and responsibilities requiring him to be away from work may be allowed leave of absence without pay, not exceeding five (5) years, upon proper notice to the Plant Superintendent fifteen (15) days prior to the date on which he desires the leave to begin. This paragraph is not applicable in the case of any employee elected to a second term.
16.06	Employees chosen by the 'Union to attend to Union business outside of the plant may, with permission of the Company, be granted leave of absence without pay not exceeding eight (8) weeks. Such leave of absence may be extended with the permission of the Company.
ARTICLE 17 - VACATIONS
17.01	Vacation eligibility requirements are based upon credited service. The period October 25th through the subsequent October 24th shall be considered to be the vacation year.
17.02	First Vacation: An employee becomes eligible €or vacation for the first time when the employment records show that either of the following 'requirements have been met:
(a) the completion of 365 calendar days of credited service
without having been off the payroll for more consecutive days than ninety (90), Sundays and holidays included, while accumulating this credit for service, or
- 34 -
ID-O'i

(b)	as soon as the employment records show any consecutive 365-day period during which he has completed 270 calendar days on the payroll. (This requirement is not to be considered as having been met until on or after the anniversary date of the employee's original employment).
17.03	Sub sequent Vacations :	An employee who has received his first
vacation is thereafter eligible to receive subsequent annual vacations any time on or after October 25th in the succeeding vacation year, provided he is currently on the active payroll and since receiving his last vacation he has at all times been on the active or a benefit payroll. (If he has not, he must qualify again under Clause 17.02 except that the last sentence in brackets in Clause 17.02 (b) shall not in such a case be applicable.)
17.04	Length of Vacation:	The length of vacation will depend upon either
the employee's credited service or upon the number of vacations for which the employee has qualified since his most recent commencement of credited service, whichever is more favourable to the employee, as follows:
TWO weeks' vacation annually, commencing with the first vacation for which the employee qualifies.
THREE weeks' vacation annually, commencing with the fifth vacation for which the employee qualifies, or after five (5') years of credited service.
FOUR weeks' vacation annually commencing with the tenth vacation for which the employee qualifies, or after ten (10) years of credited service.
FIVE weeks' vacation annually, commencing with the twentieth vacation for which the employee qualifies, or after twenty (20) years of credited service.
--0 3
0*
35 -
v
SIX weeks' vacation annually, commencing with the twenty-fifth
*1/	vacation for which the employee qualifies, or after twenty-five
(25) years of credited service.
17.05	Employees who are eligible for their first vacation and who are entitled to two or more weeks of vacation may take their vacation at any time during the vacation year in which the required service will presumably be completed, subject to the provisions of Clauses 17.08 and 17.09.
17.06	Vacation Pay:	Pay for each week of vacation for which the employee
is eligible shall be figured on the basis of his normal work week.
17.07	Employees who have earned their vacation under this vacation plan but who become sick or are injured prior to having received their vacation may, upon request to the Company, receive their vacation pay. It is understood, however, that both vacation pay and payment for disability will not be made for the same period of time.
17.08	Vacations will, as far as possible, be granted for the period selected by the employee, but final allocation of vacation periods is left to the Company in order to assure orderly operation of the plant. Every reasonable effort will be made to permit each employee to take his vacation between May 1st and October 1st. In this regard, an employee who is eligible for more than three (3) weeks' vacation shall, except where btherwise mutually agreed between the employee and his Supervisor, take his vacation in not less than two periods, of which no portion shall be less than a full week nor more than three weeks. In the choice of vacation dates, department -seniority shall prevail. Vacation lists will be posted in each department.
An employee who is assigned or transferred from one department to another shall be permitted to keep the vacation period which had been scheduled in his original department.
36
17.09	a) Except as set out in Clause 17.09 (b), vacations will be
granted only in the vacation year in which they are due and may not be carried over to the following vacation year. If, however, due to some emergency, illness or injury, an employee is not permitted to take his vacation during the vacation year in which it is due, he shall have the right to take it in the ensuing vacation year immediately upon being able to return to the active payroll.
(b) An employee eligible for a fourth or fifth week of vacation may, by prior arrangement with his supervisor, accumulate his fourth and/or fifth week of vacation from year to year to be
---p _ &	---------------
taken at a later time convenient to the Company, taking into account the wishes of the employee. Such accumulated vacations may be taken only as full weeks or multiples thereof. Such vacations will, as far as possible, be granted for the period selected by the employee, but final allocation of such vacations will be left to the Company in order to assure orderly operation of the plant, and provided that they do not interfere with the scheduling of regular vacations during the current year.
17.10	Employees entitled to vacations will not be allowed to take money in lieu thereof.
17.11	An employee eligible for vacation who is laid off because of -reduction in his gang shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he has qualified. An employee who has not become eligible for his first vacation
- 37 -
and who is laid off shall be allowed pay in lieu of vacation in accordance with the applicable Provincial vacation laws. Such employees may leave their 'vacation pay with the Company for a period not exceeding six (6) months or until the end of the then current vacation year, whichever first occurs.
17.12	An employee eligible for vacation whose employment is terminated for any reason shall be allowed pay for the vacation for which he had become eligible. In the case of death, such pay shall be paid to his estate or to the person legally entitled. An employee who has not become eligible for his first vacation and whose employment is terminated for any reason shall be allowed pay in lieu of vacation in accordance with the applicable Provincial vacation laws.
17.13	Employees shall be entitled to receive their vacation pay at the beginning of their vacation period if so desired.
17.14	If a paid holiday falls within the vacationperiod assigned to or chosen by an employee, the Company will, at the election of the employee either:
(a) pay the employee eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate for such paid holiday in addition to his vacation pay, or (b) grant to the employee another day off in substitution for the paid holiday, with eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate at a time mutually agreed to between the Company and the employee.
If the employee wishes to make an election as provided for in Clause 17.14 (b) hereof' he shall advise the Company of such election within
a reasonable time prior to the vacation period assigned to, or chosen by him.
38
17,15	All of the vacation provisions of this Agreement shall be read
subject to applicable Provincial and/or Federal statutes, and to the extent that the benefits required under such statutes are more favourable to the employees than the vacation benefits provided by this Agreement, such statutes shall prevail.
ARTICLE 18 - PLANT CLOSING
18.01	The Company will give notice of its intention to close a plant referred to in this Agreement at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to such closing. Where an employee who was on the active payroll or the benefit payroll of the plant on the date of the notice or at any time thereafter (excluding temporary replacements or newly-hired employees) is permanently separated from the service as a result of such closing prior to the expiration of ninety (90) days from the date of the notice, then for each day (based on a five-day work week) after his separation which is within the ninety (90) day period and which is not within a week for which weekly guarantee is paid, the Company will pay eight (8) hours at the employee's regular rate of pay. The Company shall not be deemed to be in default with respect to non-performance of any obligation hereunder, if so long as its non-performance is due, in whole or in part, to any cause beyond its reasonable control, such as fire, explosion, e"~
ARTICLE 19 - SEPARATION ALLOWANCES
19*01 Separation payments shall be made to employees having one (1) or
more years of credited service who are permanently separated from the service
40
Years of
Credited Service 1 2
3
4
5
6 I 8 9
Weeks of Pay
1
US
2
2*5
3
3*5
4*5
5*5
6*5
10	7*5
11	and over add to ...................... 7*s
1*5 weeks' pay for each year of credited service above ten (10) years.
Example :
12	y ears of credited service:
First 10 years of credited service ................. 7*5 weeks' pay
Service over 10 years (12 - 10 = 2 x l*s) .......... 3 weeks' pay
Total Separation Allaranoe ......................... 10*5 weeks' pay
To the separation allowance computed as per the example add vacation pay for the current calendar year if the employee has qualified for
but not taken such vacation.
19.04 The amount due under the policy shall be paid as follows:
1) Amounts less than or the same as the equivalent of four (4) weeks' pay - in one lump sum.
- 41 -
12)	Amounts more than the equivalent of four (4) weeks' pay -
weekly installments of full wages until the total sum is exhausted. If for good and sufficient reason a lump sum settlement is requested it may be made when it is assuredly to the benefit of the employee.
3) In the event of death, any unpaid balance shall be paid to the widow or dependents.
19.05	employee having one (1) or more years of credited service who is
subject to being permanently separated from the service of the-Company as a result of a reduction in the working force arising out of the closing of a department or unit of the Company when it is not expected that the employee will be re-employed, shall have the right to transfer to other meat packing plants of the Company when vacancies occur. Employees so transferred will have their seniority and service rights protected.
ARTICLE 20 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
20.01	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices and other equipment deemed necessary and furnished by the Company to protect employees from injury shall be worn or used by the employees. First
aid shall be available for employees at all times when employees are working.
20.02	For employees on the Company's payroll who have attained one year's credited service, the Company agrees (with the exception of the vision care coverage) to continue the existing Supplementary Comprehensive Medical Plan at no cost to the employee. Vision care shall cease to be a benefit provided under the aforesaid plan effective as of July 13, 1984.
- 44 -
20.11 The Company and the Union shall meet and shall agree in writing upon the provisions and administration of a disability benefit plan which shall be used to provide, benefits to employees who are totally disabled through sickness or accident. The Company agrees to pay on July 14, 1987 and on July 14th in each year thereafter the sum of $20,000,00 into an interest bearing account at a Canadian Chartered Bank in the joint names of the Company and the Union (the "trust fund") and the moneys in such trust fund shall be used to provide benefit payments to the employees herein contemplated.
ARTICLE 21 - TOOLS AND CLOTHES
21.01	The Company will supply employees with knives, steels, whetstones, scabbards, freezer leather gloves or mitts, freezer coat liners and safety helmet liners where in the opinion of the Company it is necessary or desirable to do so, When any of the foregoing items have worn out, the Company will replace them. All such items shall remain the property of the Company at all times.
21.02	Regular maintenance and engineering employees having plant seniority shall, upon presentation of small manual tools, broken or worn out on the job, receive replacement tools which, in the opinion of the Company, are necessary to perform the jobs to which they are assigned.
21.03	The Company agrees to furnish the following readily expendable
tools:
Cold Chisels Files
Key Drifts Hacksaw Blades ■ Star Drills File Brushes Wire Brushes Flashlight Batteries Flashlight Bulbs Scrapers Paint Brushes Sponges
Folding Rules, where the Company agrees that their use is necessary.
21.04	The Company agrees to make available such launderable outer work clothes, waterproof aprons, and waterproof sleeves as may be specified by the Company to employees who are required by the Company to wear such clothing. All such clothing shall remain the property of the Company and shall not be removed from the Company's premises. Clothing which, in the opinion of the Company, is worn out shall be returned to the Company before-being replaced. Upon termination of employment, all clothing provided by the Company shall be returned to the Company. Clothing, which is not returned as herein provided shall be paid for by the employee.
■21.05 The Company agrees to make available , at no cost to an employee with seniority appropriate waterproof footwear of a type and style approved by the Company, to such employees who are required by the Company to wear
45 -
Putty Knives
Glass Cutters
Pipe Wrench Jaws
Dies, for Stock and Die Reamers
Taps
Drills
Hose Tools
Hammer Handles
Torch Lighters
Carborundum Cloth
Sand Paper
- 47 -
months' credited service. Employees are eligible for this allowance once only during a three-year period. The laundering or cleaning of such clothing shall be the responsibility of the employee.
21.10 For employees with six (6) months or more credited service, the Company agrees to a monetary allowance of up to $25.00 towards the purchase of safety footwear for use on the job. New employees will be reimbursed by this amount for such purchase after attaining six (6) months" credited service. Employees will become eligible for this allowance one year from the date of the previous purchase.
ARTICLE 22 - GENERAL
22.01	Union notices may be posted on a designated bulletin board subject to the approval of the Plant Superintendent as to contents. The Company will not post notices on the same board.
22.02	The present practice of paying employees for time required in changing clothes or equipment necessitated by changing from one job to another will be continued. Extreme changes in working conditions will be discouraged.
22.03	The Company will continue in effect the present practice at its respective plants of laundering the employee's outer work clothes.
22.04	Employees who have given long and. faithful service in the employ of the Company and have become unable to handle their jobs will be given preference of such other work as available.
22.05	Nothing in the agreement shall require the Company or the Union to take any action which shall be unlawful by reason of applicable present or future Federal and/or Provincial laws, rules and/or regulations.
48
22.06	It is understood that:
a> the department employee Union representative will be permitted to discuss with foremen of the department direct in regard to any matter which may affect the department as a whole, and
b)	local officials of the Union (excluding stewards) will be permitted to discuss with the Superintendent or his designated representative direct in regard to any matter which may affect the plant as a whole.
c)	grievances presentable under Clause 3.05 hereof-may not be presented for discussion under this Clause 22.06.
22.07	Any working conditions now in effect and not covered by this Agreement or not within the exclusive province of the Company as set forth in Clause 23.01 will remain in effect unless changed by collective bargaining.
22.08	The Company agrees that it will give fair and reasonable consideration to any applicant or employee regardless of race, sex, color, creed, nationality or membership in the Union.
22.09	No employee outside of the bargaining unit will be used on work of the same nature as that performed by employees in the bargaining unit except as follows:
i)	For the purpose of breaking in new employees or employees on a new job, or instructing employees.
ii)	For the purpose of taking an employee's place temporarily in
such cases as failure to show up for work, or who had to be relieved due to injury or sickness, or who, for other reason, is temporarily absent from the job.
iii)	In locations which are isolated or gangs which are not
- 49 -
sufficiently large to justify the full time use of a supervisor or managerial employee and only if it has been the practice in the past to use such employees.
22.10	In the event the Company makes a decision to contract out any work at a plant coming under this Agreement, then the Superintendent will explain and review fully the circumstances prevailing which resulted in the decision. If such explanation is not satisfactory to the Union, then the matter may be referred to the Vice-president of Operations of the Company (or his representative) and the President of the Union (or his representative) for further review and discussion. If no agreement is reached, the matter will be subject to Grievance Procedure.
Provided however that, and notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may as a matter of right, contract out any work at a plant coming under this Agreement if no employe-e with seniority loses his job and if those employees directly affected by the contracting out do not suffer as a result of the contracting out any reduction in their rate of pay during the term of this Collective Agreement.
And provided further that, the Company agrees that it will not contract out during the term of this Agreement any clean up work at a plant presently being performed by Bargaining Unit employees under this Agreement. i22.11 The Company agrees to provide a union office at the Edmonton, Alberta, Meat Packing Plant, and a metal filing cabinet (with lock and key) for the use of the Union President at each plant. The location of the said filing cabinet is to be mutually agreed upon by the Plant SuperinfLtmlnnft. and
£
the Union President.
50
ARTICLE 23 - MANAGEMENT
23.01	The management of the plant and the direction of the working 'forces, including the right to hire, promote, and demote employees, to suspend or discharge for just cause, to assign and re-assign employees to jobs, to transfer employees from department to department, to increase and decrease the working force, to determine the products to be handled, produced or manufactured, the schedules of production and the methods, processes and means of production or handling, are vested exclusively in the Company, provided that this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against any employee or the Union or to avoid any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 24 - SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT
24.01	No employee shall be eligible for benefits under this Article unless he notifies the Company promptly when he is unable to report for work.
24.02	When employees currently receiving benefit payments under this Article are retired because of age, physical or mental disability, or other reason, payments under this Article shall cease.
24.03	At the onset of any disability, an employee will be transferred from the active payroll to the applicable benefit payroll. ’Except as provided in Clause 24.06, benefits to which an employee may be entitled hereunder are determined by his service and status at the onset of the disability.
24.04	In case any sickness or non-compensable accident benefit payments, lesser in amount or duration than those payable under this Article, are
- 51 -
provided for by Provincial or Federal laws, it is understood that the difference only, if any, between such Provincial or Federal required payments 'and the amount the employee is entitled to under this sickness or non-compensable accident payment plan will be payable. If such Provincial or Federal required payments are greater than those payable under this Article, no payments shall be made under this Article.
24.05	When employees are absent from work because of disability due to sickness or non-compensable accident, and when such absences and their continuation are supported by acceptable medical evidence, part wage payments shall be made in accordance with the following terms and conditions:
Payments shall not be made when employees are absent from work because of disability due to sickness or injury caused by or as a result of the employee's own act or misconduct. All absences shall be considered as starting with the loss of the first day on which the employee was scheduled to work.
SCHEDULE
Service Required:
While being credited with service within the meaning of Article 25, and after three (3) months or more of credited service at the time of the onset of the absence, all of which service must have been performed subsequent to the employee's most recent (if any) :
1)	Discharge for cause.
2)	Quit.
3)	Layoff in excess of two (2) years,
4)	Failure to return to work for the Company within the times limited by Clause 15.18 hereof when recalled.
Waiting Period:
52
Five (5) consecutive work days.
The five (5) consecutive work day waiting period shall be waived with respect to an employee who is hospitalized for a minimum period of one night during the waiting period due to an illness or accident.
Amount of Payment:
The amount of payment shall be as follows:
a) In the case of an employee who has less than five (5) years of credited service:
Consecutive Weeks of	Percentage of
Compensable Disability	Wages
First Week .................
Second Week ...............
Third Week .................
Fourth Week ................
Fifth and subsequent weeks
Nil
55%
60%
60%
65%
b) In the case of an employee who has five (5) or more years of
credited service:
Consecutive Weeks of Compensable Disability
Percentage of - Wages_______
First Week
Nil
Second Week
55%
Third Week Fourth Week
60%
60%
65%
Fifth and subsequent weeks
- 53 -
On the basis of forty (40) hours or the number of weekly hours normally scheduled to work if different, Daily payments will be based on 'one-fifth of the weekly payment as computed above in cases involving absences of less than a full work week.
Extent of Payment:
For an employee having three (3) or more months of credited service as hereinbefore provided but having less than eight (8) years of credited service up to fifteen (15) weeks at the weekly payment as computed above for any one absence, reduced by the payments made for other such absences during the one month period immediately preceding the onset of the current absence, except where the current absence is attributable to a disability which has resulted in any other absences during the immediate preceding three (3) months, in which case the amount of reduction shall be all payments made on account of absences attributable to such disability during the three-month period immediately preceding the onset of the current absence.
For an employee having eight (8) or more years of credited service, two (2) weeks for each year of credited service at the weekly payment as computed above for any one absence, reduced by the payments made for other absences during the one-month period immediately preceding the onset of the current absence, except where the current absence is attributable to a disability which has'resulted in any other absences during the immediate preceding three (3) months, in which case the reduction shall be all payments made on account of absences attributable to such disability during the three-month period immediately preceding the onset of the current absence.
- 54 -
In cases of disability due to pregnancy or pregnancy-related illness, payments and the extent thereof will be on the same basis as 'aforesaid, except that payments shall not be made during or in respect of any period:
i)	that commences ten (10) weeks before the week in which her confinement for pregnancy is expected and terminates six (6) weeks after the week in which her confinement occurs,
ii)	of maternity leave taken pursuant to Provincial law.
iii)	for which maternity benefits are paid to her under Section 30 of the Unemployment Insurance Act.
24,06- If, during a period when an employee is absent due to sickness. or accident and is receiving benefit payments under Article 24, this Collective Agreement provides for a wage rate increase, such sickness and accident benefit payments shall be adjusted accordingly.
24.07	The Company shall have the right at all times to unilaterally amend any of the provision of this Article 24 in order to remain qualified for the Unemployment Insurance Premium Reduction.
24.08	It is hereby agreed that the employees will reimburse the Company one-half of the premium cost of this sickness and accident plan. The employees share of the cost as herein provided will be deducted from their pay each week and the Company is hereby authorized to make such weekly deduction. The Company will continue its present practice of applying the employees' share of the unemployment insurance premium rebate against the cost of the various benefit plans.
55
525- CREDITED SERVICE
Credited Service for the period prior to April 1, 1966 for ses on the payroll of Swift Canadian Co., Limited ("Swift") on and after April 1, 1966 shall be on the following basis:
a)	For the purposes of pensions, separation pay, death benefits, leave of absence and surgical-medical, employees will be credited on April 1, 1966, with service to such date as computed pursuant to Clause 69 A(b) (Continuous Service) of the Collective Agreement between Swift and the United Packinghouse Food and Allied Workers dated July 22, 1964.
b)	For the purpose of vacations, employees will be credited on April 1, 1966, with service to such date as computed pursuant to Clause 69 A (a) (Accumulated Service) of the Collective Agreement between Swift and the United Packinghouse Food and Allied Workers dated July 22, 1964.
(c)	For the purpose of sickness and accident, employees will be
credited on April 1, 1966, with the greater of the amounts as determined under sub-clauses (a) and (b) above.
(d)	The provisions of said Clauses 69 A(a) and 69 A(b) of the July
22, 1964 collective agreement between Swift and the United Packinghouse and Allied Workers are outlined in Exhibit "F" hereto.
25.02 From April 1, 1966 to January 13, 1981, inclusive, employees will be credited with service which they accumulate while on the payroll of Swift, and after January 13, 1981, while on the payroll of the Company, subject to the following provisions:
56
(a) The period of absence due to the following causes will be credited to the employee's service but only after the employee's return to work from such period of absence promptly upon being able to do so:
a) Absences due to sickness, accident or pregnancy where
such absence is supported by acceptable medical evidence.
(2)	Miscellaneous approved absences, such as those due to vacation, jury service, bereavement.
(3)	Absence while in the military, naval, or air force of Canada.
(4)	Authorized leave of absence up to a maximum period of three (3) months.
(5)	Absence while on strike during the period from June li 1986 to December 14, 1986 inclusive, except for the Purpose of Article 17 - Vacations, Article 8.03 -Holidays and Pensions.
(b) Employees will not be credited with service during the period of absence where they are:
(!) Discharged for cause, laid off, voluntarily leave the service of Swift or the Company, or separated from the employ of Swift or the Company as a result of a reduction in the working force arising out of the closing of a department or unit of the Company or Swift when it is not expected that the employee will be re-employed, whether or not paid a separation allowance; or
- 57 -
(2)	Except as provided for above in clause 25.02 (a)(5),
absent due to being on strike; or
(3)	Absent due to disciplinary action; or
(4)	Absent on the part of an authorized leave of absence
which is in excess of three (3) months,
25.03	Employees in the bargaining unit of Local 280-P at the Company's facility at 124th Avenue and 66th Street, Edmonton, Alberta (the "North
Plant") who were previously employees of the Company in the bargaining unit of Local319 at the Company's facility at 7917 - 96th Street, Edmonton, Alberta (the "South Plant") and who were transferred by the Company from the South Plant to the North Plant shall for the purposes of vacations, separation pay, death benefits, leave of absence, surgical-medical and sickness and accident (but excluding pensions) be credited for the purposes of credited service with their service with the Company to the date immediately prior to the date of their transfer (which service shall be determinable by the Company and shall be mutually agreeable to the Company and the Union) and on and after the date of transfer shall accumulate credited service as provided for in Clause 25.02 above.
25.04	Employees will lose all credited service if they:
1) Are discharged for cause; or
•2)	Voluntarily leave the service of the Company; or
3)	Fail to return to work when recalled from layoff within the time provided in Clause 15.18 or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company; or
4)	Have been out of the employment by the Company due to a layoff for a period of two (2) years; or
- 58 -
5)	Are separated from the Company's employ for a reason specified in Article 19 whether or not paid a separation allowance.
If subsequently re-employed, no credit will be given for p.rior
P1 ■ i1) in j c t o11i e c e a i t1 a; s subject to tie f c1i oa ii; aj:e eie11 s : an agreement made as of October 1, 1987 between Gainers Inc. and
the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 280P and Local 472, as amended by an agreement dated February 23, dihr sane parties;
an agreement made as of January 31, 1988 between Gainers Inc. and the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 280P and Local 472:
an agreement made as of October 1, 1987 between Gainers inc. and the Board of Trustees of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan Trust Fund, as amended by an agreement dated February 23, -1908 between the same parties; and
an agreement, being a participation agreement, made January 26, 1988, between Gainers Inc. and the Board of Trustees of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan Trust Fund. Effective December 14, 1986, a special Early Retirement Program
will be made available to eligible employees. In particular, if an employee
- 59 -
wishes to retire early and elects to do so on or before December 13, 1987, then the employee may retire from the Company's employment on or before 'February 1, 1988 if as at the date of his retirement or on December 13, 1987 whichever date first occurs, he is at least age 55 and has at least 15 years of credited service, and upon such retirement he will receive the following benefits:
(i) a payment from the Company in the amount of $5,000; and (ii) pension payments from the Industry Plan computed in accordance with the provisions of the Industry Plan.
ARTICLE
27.01	When a regular employee is absent from work to perform jury service
or to testify as a scibp&ea<ied	the Companywvil1 pay him his rerprPar
rate of pay for each hour he would have worked had he .not been on jury duty, less any jury fees, or as witness, less any witness fees, received by him for p&forming such service or giving such evidence.
ARTICLE 28 - BEREAVEMENT
28.01	When an employee is absent from work on a regular work day to attend the funeral of an immediate relative, he shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular rate of pay for each day of such absence up to a maximum of three consecutive regular work days.
For the purpose of this Clause, an immediate relative shall be defined as follows: Father, Father-in-law, Mother, Mother-in-law, Brother, Sister, Spouse, Grandparent, Grandchild, Son or Daughter.
27 - JURY DUTY

60
When an employee is absent from work on a regular work day and loses pay to attend the funeral of a Brother-in-law, Sister-in-law,
eight (8) regular hours.
When an employee is absent from work on a regular Work day and loses pay to attend a memorial service for any of the aforementioned relatives, he shall be reimbursed at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours lost up to a maximum of eight (8) regular hours. The Company may require from the employee proof of his attendance at such memorial service before it reimburses him hereunder.
receiving other Company benefits such as vacation pay, sickness and accident payments or on an authorized leave of absence without .pay for any reason.
An employee will not be entitled to receive under this Article 28 bereavement pay in respect of a day for which he is receiving holiday pay.
ARTICLE 29 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
29.01	This Agreement shall take effect as of December 14, 1986, and shall remain in full force and effect uP to and including September 30, 1990, and
at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours lost up to a maximum of
The provisions of this article shall not apply to employees then
from year to year thereafter unless written notice of intention to terminate or amend is given by either party to the other not less than thirty (30) days prior to its expiration date.
61 -
SIGNED on behalf of the parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives as of the 30th day of September, 1988#
LOCAL NUMBER 280-P OF THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION

GAINERS I,NC,
EXHIBIT "ft"
DESCRIPTION OF BARGAINING UNITS
EDMONTON, ALBERTA MEAT PACKING PLANT
All production and maintenance employees of the Company at its plant located at 12425 - 66th Street, Edmonton, Alberta, excluding Superintendent, Assistant Superintendent, Division Superintendents, Supervisors, Assistant Supervisors, Clerks, Superintendent's Office employees, Employment Office employees, Timekeeping and Receiving Office employees, Standards Department employees, Medical Office employees, Laboratory employees, Policemen and Watchmen, General Office Payroll employees, Livestock Office employees, Livestock Buyers, and Sales staff.
EDMONTON, ALBERTA FOOD SERVICE DIVISION
All production and maintenance employees of the Food Service Division of Gainers Inc. at its Plant, located at 8704 - 53rd Avenue, Edmonton, Alberta, excluding Superintendent, Division Superintendents, Supervisors, Clerks, Superintendent's Office employees, Employment Office employees, Time Study employees, Medical Office employees, Laboratory employees, Watchmen, General Office Payroll employees and Sales staff.
EXHIBIT "B"
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
The following form of authorization is mutually agreed upon as the "form prescribed" referred to in Clause 1.04 of this Agreement:
"I, _________________________________, being an employee of
Gainers Inc. at its plant at _________________________________________
and a member of Local No. 280-P of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union hereby authorize and direct Gainers Inc. to deduct on each pay day in each week in each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit the amount of the Union initiation fee and weekly membership dues of Local No. 280-P of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
I further authorize Gainers Inc. to pay the amounts so deducted to the designated official of the Union whose receipt therefor shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of Gainers Inc. for the amount so deducted from my earnings.
Name _________________________________________
Address ______________________________________
Number _______________________________________
Witness ______________________________________
EXHIBIT "C" DENTAL INSURANCE PLAN
Effective December 14, 1986, the following services will be
covered:
2.
Examinations. Consultation.
-	Preventative services such as scaling and polishing, and fluoride treatments.
-	Routine fillings.
-	Extractions.
-	Anaesthesia.
-	Periodontal treatments.
-	Endodontic treatments.
-	Surgical services.
-	Dentures, denture relining and/or rebasing, repairs and adjustments. The Plan will reimburse the employee for 80% of allowable expenses
(except for charges related to dentures, in which case'50% will be reimbursed) with allowable expenses based on the 1986 Dental Association fee schedule, and with a maximum annual payment of $500.00 to each employee or dependent.
Where claim charges are estimated to exceed $200.00 for any employee or dependent, a treatment plan will be submitted to the insurance company before treatment commences.
December 12, 1986
Mr, Peter Boytzun
Business Representative
United Food and Commercial Workers
International Union, Local 280-P
9558 - 111 Avenue
Edmonton, Alberta
T5G 0A7
Dear Mr. Boytzun;
This will confirm our understanding that leave of absence as granted in Clause 16,06 whereby employees may be given leave of absence for Union business, when applied to Clause 9.03 of the Agreement which deals with paid holidays, shall only apply to the specific instances of Clause 9.03.
Yours truly,
GAINERS INC.
Raymond J. Off Director, Human Resources
RJO/slr
December 12, 1986
'Mr, PeterBoytzun Business Representative United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 280—P 9558 - 111
Edmonton, Alberta T5G 0A7
Dear Mr, Boytzun:
Be:	Gainers Inc. - Supplementary
_____Comprehensive Medical Plan
This will confirm our recent agreement in respect of our present Suppleoentajry Comprehensive Medical Plan as follows:
1.	Employees will become eligible for benefit coverage once they have
obtained one year of credited service.
2.	The payment of benefits to employees and- dependents covered by the
Plan will begin when the deductible has been satisfied. Benefits will be 85% of the eligible expenses the individual incurs during the calendar year.
3.	The $25.00 deductible applies only once each calendar year to each
person even though there may be several accidents or sicknesses.
No more than two $25.00 deductibles wouldapply in one calendar year to one family.
An additional benefit of up to $500.00 once in a life-time for each person covered under the Plan for the expenses incurred for a hearing aid. The normal deductible and co-insurance provisions of the Medical Plan do not apply to this benefit. ''
Yours truly,
GAINERS INC.
Raymond J. Off Director, Human Resources
RJO/slr
December 12, 1986
Mr. Peter Boytzun
Business Representative
United	“aifu n come t uiui ’ V) crt ice r s
International Union, Local 280-P 9558 - 111 Avenue Edmonton, Alberta T5G 0A7
Dear Mr. Boytzun:
We wish to confirm our policy that in the event that a bargaining unit employee on vacation incurs an accident or becomes sick after 12:01 A.M on the first day of his scheduled vacation, no change shall be made from a vacation to a disability status.
Yours truly, GAINERS INC.
RJO/slr
Raymond J. Off Director, Human Resources
December 12, 1986
Mr, Peter Boytzun
Business Representative
United Food and Commercial Workers
International Union, Local 280-P
9558 - 111 Avenue
Edmonton; Alberta
T5G 0A7
Dear Mr, Boytzun:
We wish to confirm our position with reference to alcoholism, as discussed during negotiations.
It is recognized that excessive or improper use of alcohol is a problem which adversely affects an individual and his family, with respect to employment, financial affairs and social life.
The Company will co-operate with the Union at each of its units to facilitate the earliest possible identification and treatment of employees with such alcohol problems.
'	Where an employee who has an alcohol problem enters an in-patient
treatment centre and faithfully carries out the prescribed treatment, the Company, at its discretion, in order to alleviate economic hardship, may provide financial assistance to offset part of the employee's loss of wages, during all or part of the period of in-patient treatment.
Yours truly,
GAINERS INC.
Raymond J. Off
Director, Human Resources
RJO/slr
December 12, 1986
Mr. Peter Boytzun
Business Representative
United Food and Commercial Workers
International Union, Local 280-P
9558 - 111 Avenue
Edmonton, Alberta
T5G 0A7
Dear Mr, Boyt2un:
Re:	Pay Distribution
In connection with Clause 7.01 of the Collective Agreement, we would like to confirm the understanding with you which was reached during negotiations.
The present practice of paying employees on their normal pay day in each week for work performed by them in the previous week will be continued' subject however, to the following:
i)	if the Company pays an employee on his normal pay day *An a
week and he is thereafter absent without authorization on his next scheduled shift in that week, then in the next succeeding week, such employee shall receive his pay on the Friday.
ii)	if such employee is absent a second time without authorization on his next scheduled arhAft .r/ter his normal ~pey d&yi.ir s week
then such employee shall thereafter receive his pay on a permanent basis on Friday in every week.
Yours truly,
GAINERS INC.
Raymond J. Off
Director, Human Resources
RJO/slr
December 5, 1989
Mr. Peter Boytzun Business Representative United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 280P 9558 - 111 Avenue Edmonton, Alberta T5G 0A7
Dear Mr, Boytzun:
Re:	1987 Vacation Year
Due to a labour dispute which occurred from June 1, 1986 to, and including, December 14, 1986, employees did not accrue credited service during this period of time for the purpose of Article 17 of the Collective Agreement “ Vacations.
As a result of the discussions between Union and Management representatives, it was agreed that irrespective of Article 17, all employees eligible for vacation in the 1987 vacation year (December 14, 1986 to October 24, 1987) would be eligible to take time off equal to the length of their normal vacation entitlement. Pay for this vacation period would be computed on one-half of the normal vacation entitlement.
Yours truly,
GAINERS INC.
Raymond J. Off
Director, Human Resources
RJO/slr
December 5, 1989
Mr. Peter Boytzun Business Representative United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 280P 9558 - 111 Avenue Edmonton, Alberta T5G 0A7
Dear Mr. Boytzun:
This will confirm our understanding as to the provisions of Clause 8.03 of the Collective Agreement.
For the purposes of Clause 8.03 of the Collective Agreement, we wish to confirm that during the first three years of the term of the Agreement, namely during the period from December 14, 1986 to December 13, 1989, inclusive, there shall be, in each year, eight paid holidays and two floating holidays. During the last nine and one-half months of the term of the Collective Agreement, namely, during the period from December 14, 1989 to September 30, 1990, inclusive, there shall be six paid holidays and one floating holiday.
Yours truly, GAINERS INC.
Raymond J. Off
Director, Human Resources
RJO/slr
DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
This disability benefit plan is effective December 14, 1986 and is pursuant to Clause 20,11 of a Collective Agreement executed as of September 30, 1988 between Gainers Inc. (the "Company") and Local Union 280-P of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union (the "Union") covering the hourly production and maintenance employees of the company at its plants located at 12425 - 66 Street, Edmontoti, Alberta and at 8704 - 59r.ii. Ahpeua=, Edmonton, Alberta.
The Company shall on July 14, 1987, and on July 14th in each year thereafter-, the sum of $20,000.00 into an I’ntA’rs.'S.t hfcartmfc acc.su.v.t (t
"Trust Fund") at the Lloyds Bank at 10250 - 101 Street, Edmonton, Alberta which account shall be in the joint names of the Company and the Union.
The Trust Fund shall be used for the sole purpose of providing benefit payments to the employees herein contemplated.
The maximum liability of the Company under this disability benefit plan shall be the payment into the Trust Fund of $20,000,00 per year as above provided and nothing herein contained or otherwise shall impose any greater liability upon the Company.
The following provisions shall apply in the administration of this disability benefit plan:
- Full-time employees actively at work on December 31, 19-86 are eligible under this Plan on attainment of five (5) year's credited service. Employees absent from work on the date they would otherwise have been eligible must return to work and satisfactorily complete two months' full-time work to be eligible.
- A -
to a period of four or more consecutive years, if an employee returns to work after collecting disability benefits and if within one zfbs thereafter he again ceases work as the result of the same or a related disability and receives disability benefits, then such further period of absence from work while receiving disability benefits shall be deemed to be consecutive with the immediate previous absence and such further period of absence shall be taken into account and added onto the previous absence in determining whether the employee has been absent from work and received disability benefits for a period of four consecutive years or longer.
An employee whose benefits under the Company's Sickness and Accident Plan expire after separation or lay-off will not be entitled to a benefit hereunder.
SIGNED on behalf of the parties hereto by their duly authorized, representatives as of the 30th day of September, 1988.	s'
LOCAL NUMBER 280-P OF THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
by:
GAINERS
EXHIBIT "D"
AUTHORIZED WAGE RATE SCHEDULE PART II
EDMONTON PLANT WAGE SCALE (for employees covered by clause 4,03 of the Collective Agreement)
(a) GENERAL PLANT
Classification	Bracket
General Labour		0
Class	I	201
Class	II	202
Class	III	203
Class	IV	204
Class	V	205
Class	VI	206
*WAGE RATES:	EFFECTIVE*
December 14, 1988
$ 8.00
8.50 9.00
9.50
10.50
11.50
12.50
January 1, 1989
$	8.24
8.76 9.27 9.79 10.82 11.85 12.88
January U_____1990
$ 8.49 9.02 9.55 10.08 11.14 12.21 13.27
(b) MAINTENANCE/MECHANICAL
Classification	Bracket
Class	I	211
Class	II	212
Class	III	213
+WAGE R^kTES; EFFECTIVE *
December
14.	1988
$	8.35
14.25 14.95
January	January
1. 1989	1, 1990
$ 8.60	8 8.86
14.68	15.12
15.40	15.86
The probation period is completed when six (6) calendar months of service have been worked, at which time 50c is added to the rate. The six (6) months will be calculated by the computer automatically.
EXHIBIT "D"
AUTHORIZED WAGE RATE SCHEDULE PART I INDEX
SECTION	PAGES
"A"	------- -----------------
Automotive	61	48
"B"
Beef Casings	19	22
Beef Carcass Cooler	21	24-25
Beef Cutting 4 Special Cutting Room	22	26-28
Beef Dressing	15	18-20
Beef Tripe	20	23
Beef Warm Variety Meats	16	21
Boxed Beef	23	29
"C"
Canned Meats 4 Canned Hams	44	43-44
Carpenters	72	53
Certified Trades Apprenticeship Program	.72	54
Curing	9	13-14
"D"		
Distribution Centre	36	35
"E"
Electricians Employees Market
72	53
67	50
tiptt
Freezer	34	33
"H"
Ham Cooking Hog Casings
43	42
29	30
-i-
SECTION
PAGES
Lard Tank and Press	8	12
Laundry	69	51
Livestock Pens	51	47
Loading Dock	35	34
"M"
Machine Repair and Maintenance Main Floor Load Distribution Millwrighting
Miscellaneous, All Departments
II pM
Painting
Plant Janitors 4 Watchstaff
Pork Cooler
Pork Cutting
Pork Dressing
Pork Packing 4 Shipping
Pork Trimming
Pork Warm Variety Meats
Provincial Certified Trades
72
38
72
1
54-55
37
55
1-2
72	56
70	51
4	I
5	8-9
2	3-4
I	11
6	10
3	5-6
72	58
"R"	'
Refinery
Rendering
46	45-56
37	36
"S"
Scale Repair Sheet Metal Work Sliced Bacon Sliced Table-Ready Meats Smoked Meats .
Steamfitting and Boiler Making Steam, Power and Refrigeration Storeroom
72	56
72	56
11	17
42	41
10	15-16
72	57
71	52
68	50
40
38-40
it
Table-Ready Meats
"v"
SECTION
Variety Meats Cooler	33
Veal & Lamb Cutting	32
"W"
Welding	72
Yard Cleaning	63
i i i
PAGES
32
31
57
49
8/8/84
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 1
MISCELLANEOUS. ALL DEPARTMENTS	BRACKET
1. Clean and oil surfaces of buildings and equipment	0
2. Clean and oil rails	0
3. Push or pull loaded or empty trucks	0
4. Manually transport product or supplies	0
5. Fork, shovel or pick product or supplies	0
6. Ship product - selecting	6
7. Ship prepackaged product	4
3. Weight product ps containers and record	2
9. Stencil and mark containers or packages	2
10. Form and stitch corrugated or fibre container	2
11. Seal containers by hand	0
12. Strap containers	2
13. Label product by hand	0
14. Code date - hand or machine	0
15. Check scale product or containers	1
16. Receive and inspect product or supplies	2
17. Open up vat or barrel	2
18. Open and dump bags of material	0
19. Operate elevator	2
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
2
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 1
MISCELLANEOUS. ALL DEPARTMENTS
20.	Operate powered fork lift, Low lift (walk)
21.	Operate powered fork lift, High lift (walk)
22.	Operate powered fork lift, High lift (ride)
23.	Operate powered front-end loaded (ride)
24.	Night Clean-up -
Any clean-up after regular operations
NOTE: Does not apply to clean-up during operations, such as hosing floors, tables, squeegeeing floors during spell period, or Dressing Room Janitors.
BRACKET
2
3
4 4
4
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-3-
RATE SCHEDULE SECTION 2
PORK DRESSING
1.	Drive hogs from holding pens
2.	Stunning hogs (electric)
3.	Prone sticking
4.	Hang off stunned hogs
5.	Straighten hogs on roller table
6.	Pull toe nails
7.	Expose 'gam cord
8.	Put in gambrel
9.	Place trolley and hang off
10.	Singeing - hand torch
11.	Shaving hog carcasses
12.	Open brisket
13.	Cut and disjoint head
14.	Cut out pizzle and cut aitch bone
15.	Drop bungs
16.	Open bellies
17.	Cut out bladders or pig bags
18.	Eviscerating
19.	Separate carcass (power saw)
20.	Scaling carcasses - Printomatic
BRACKET
0
5
13
3 2 2
4 4
3 2
4 4
11
4
11
8
2
8
10
4
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-4-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 2
PORK DRESSING
21.	Read and record tattoo mark
22.	Cut off head - previously disjointed
23.	Remove tongue
24.	Remove kidneys
25.	Pull leaf lard
26.	Notch hind feet 27 . Scrape out fat
28.	Trim brisket or diaphragm
29.	Wash necks (Pressure or Mechanical Washer)
30.	Spell out
31.	Clean out oil trolleys or gambrels
32.	Trim brui ses
33.	Help Government Inspector
34.	Scrape bung fat
35.	Trim necks
36.	Attend hog scalding tank
BRACKET
2
3
7
2
6
3 2 2 2
12
2
4 4 2 3 I
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-6-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 3
PORK WARM VARIETY MEATS
21.	Trim glands
22.	Open and trim stomachs
23.	Cut out stomach linings
24.	Save chitterlings
25.	Wash meats or fats
26.	Wash paunches
27.	Pull fat from, middles
28.	Save ears
29.	Scald tongues
30.	Cut Off giblet meat and trim
31.	Cut off and save duodenums
32.	Trim pork tongues
BRACKET
2
2
2
2
2
0
1
2
2
2
2
2
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
7-	8/8/84
	RATE SCHEDULE	
	SECTION 4	
PORK	COOLER	BRACKET
1.	Feed conveyor in cooler	2
2.	Stamp carcass	2
3.	Space carcasses in cooler	2
A.	Count carcasses	2
5.	Lug hog carcasses	3
6.	Rail pushing and switching	1
7.	Deliver to cutting gang	2
8.	Select hog carcasses for shipping	1
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-8-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 5
PORK CUTTING
1»	Cut	and loosen tenderloin
2.	Cut	off tail
3.	Separate sides
4.	Chopping - power disc
5.	Saw off foot - power saw
6.	Skin hams * hand knife
7.	Skin hams, picnics and butts - machine
a. Fat and finish machine skinned hams - hand knife
9.	Cut	out neck	bone
10.	Saw	shoulder	- power	saw
11.	Skin shoulder
12.	Trim and finish shoulder
13.	Pull butts
14.	Trim butts
15.	Trim picnics
16.	Saw	- power saw
17.	Ribbing backs - hand knife
18.	Pull backs & loins - draw knife
19.	Bone backs
20.	Trim loin
21.	Trim fat back
BRACKET
2
2
2
7
4 7 2
5 7
5
6
8
5
4
8
7
8
8
5
I
4
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-9-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 5
PORK CUTTING
22.	Ribbing bellies
23.	Trim bellies
24.	Skin bellies - machine
25.	Trim skin patches & hair roots from machine skinned fresh bellies
26.	Separate backs and bellies using band saw
27.	Bone ham for ham roll .
28.	Roll and tie fresh hams
29.	Trim flank muscle from belly
30.	Form and tie fresh boneless backs
31.	Trim boneless backs
32.	Bone picnics
33a Bone fresh butts
34.	Separate riblet fromneckbone (powersaw)
35.	Cut off jowls
36.	Saw off hams using band saw
37.	Operate mechanical loin puller
38.	Skin and defat hams on machine with defatting attachment
39.	Fat and finish machine skinned hams, power knife
40.	Operate mechanical deboner and crusher
41. I.lj	1 e*.	..ibrjulA0t-.ftr'L *? heiJ ■"
(Remove bone as required)
BRACKET
9
9
2
2
5
11
2
3
2
7
7
3
2
3
6 7
4
4
4
5
It is understood this does not preclude using «MktlJAd labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-10-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 6
PORK TRIMMING
Inspect trimmed meat
Skin and trim out neck fat
Trim out fresh cuts for trimmings
Trim bones or trimmings for lean or regular
Trim and clean tails
Trim and clean feet
Trim bones - power knife
Operate skinning machine ’
Operate fleshing machine Save "scrap SKins Scaling
BRACKET
7
3
6
4
4
2
2
2
2
2
2
It is other
understood this does not preclude
unskilled work not specified that
using unskilled labour may occur from time to
rate
time
on
8/8/84
-11-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 7
PORK PACKING AND SHIPPING
1.	Pack, scale and	record	product
2.	Wrap product
3.	Grade loins
4.	Grade shoulders
5.	Operate C.V.P. Packaging	Machine
BRACKET
2
2
4
3
4
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
-13-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 9
CURING
1.	Weight green meat for average
2.	Grade backs, bellies or hams
3.	Grade shoulders, butts or picnics
4.	Pickling up meats
5.	Wash vats or covers
6.	Pickle	maker
7.	Helper	- Pickle maker
a.	Expose	shank bone, hams
9.	Boning	hams (no chiselling)
10. Boning picnics, shoulders and butts
11. Tying hams, shoulders, picnics and butts
12.	Tying rolls - machine
13.	Place product, pickle injector ip truck
14.	Remove	product, pickle injector to truck
15.	Attend	pickle injector
16.	Rub curing mixture on pumped meats
17.	Pack cured meats for shipment
18.	Operate machine to compress and seal product stuffed in artificial casings
19.	Stitch hams, picnics or butts
20.	Cut out shank and aitch bone from ham
a/8/84
BRACKET
2
4
3 2 2
4 2 2
11
7
2
1
1
1
2 2
2
1
4
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to ijnf/
8/8/84
-14-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 9
CURING	BRACKET
21* Cut product for ClTy^O^V&C	3
22. Operate Comcure	5
23. Trim and defat boneless beef briskets	4
24. Operate Meat Massagers	4.
25, Salt dry salt meat	2
26. Pile dry salt meat	2
27. Overhaul dry salt meat	3
28. Pack and scale pickled beef	2
29. Pickle up pickled beef	2
30. Delivering loads and organizing product distribution in the Curing Cellar	4
31. Attending and operating the Langen B120 Brine Injector and Tumbler	5
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-15-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 10
SMOKED MEATS
1.	Brand meats
2.	Trim meats
3.	String product
4.	Place comb hanger and hang meat
5.	Stockinette and hang product
6.	Wash trolleys, comb hangers and drip pans
7.	Stuff product in artificial casings
8.	Place and remove trolleys of meat in smoke
9.	Operate smoke house ID. Help smoker
11.	Packing meat
12.	Pull comb hangers from product
13.	Press hams, picnics or shoulders
14.	Remove stockinettes or slings
15.	Wrapping product
16.	Tying product
17.	Cry-0-vac product
18.	Saw off protruding bones from hams (power saw)
19.	Saw ham 'into pieces for steaks (power saw)
20.	Rail pushing and switching
21.	Wrap product in shrinkable film
BRACKET
2
3
2
2
1
2
2
1
12
2
2
0
1
0
2
1
2
2
2
2
2
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
	-16- 8/8/84 RATE SCHEDULE SECTION 10
SMOKED MEATS	BRACKET
22. Shrink film	1
23. Clip end of artificial	casing i
24. Clean smoke houses	1
25. stuff massaged product into artificial casings
using air operated stuffer	6
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-17-
KATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 11
SLICED BACON
1.	Operate mechanical press	and feed slicer
2.	Operate slicer
3.	Push trolleys
4.	Adjust draft spacer
5.	Grading
6.	Place cards for drafts
7.	Weight package and make weight
8.	Feed packaging machine
9.	Address labels, keep records
10.	Case off sliced bacon (Inspect, check, scale and pack)
11.	Service, attend and adjust 6-16 or 6-18B vacuumizing and sealing units
BRACKET
2
3
2
3
2
1
2
1
3
2
4
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
-18-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 15
BEEF	DRESSING
1.	Penning
2.	Drive to holding or knocking pen
3.	Stun cattle (Humane Stunner)
4.	Shackle
5.	Hoist and hang off
6.	Stick
7.	Head (Scalping)
8.	Tag head and carcass, cut off head
9.	Remove shackle
10.	Hang up trolley and hang up hind leg
11.	Skin and cut off front legs
12.	Skin hind legs
13.	Clear out hide on each side of belly from below udder and/or cod to brisket (power knife)
14.	Skin brisket, mark pattern on foreshank, clear out throat (power knife)
15.	Clean out flank (power knife)
16.	Cut fell skin inside and outside hind shank
(power knife)
17.	Skin neck (power knife)
18.	Clean out neck and foreshank (power knife)
19.	Operate Johnson Hide Puller
20.	SclW off hind legs (power saw)
8/8/84
BRACKET
3
4 2 4 4
11
13
2
2
2
7
11
23
23
8
8
11
8
13
3
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
-20-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 15
8/8/84
BEEF	DRESSING	BRACKET
41.	Clothe sides	3
42.	Cut off tail and drop flank	2
43.	Wash and trim tails	2
44.	Condemned room man	4
45.	Rod weasand - pneumatic pusher	0
46.	Cut, break and remove front legs	5
47.	Remove Horns with Hydraulic Dehorner	2
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
-21-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 16
BEEF WARM VARIETY MEATS
1.	Cut off head
2.	Tongue head
3.	Wash heads and	tongues
4.	Chisel temple and cheek on conveyor
5.	Pull jaws
6.	Cut and trim head meat on conveyor
7.	Wash and bleach	tongues	and head meat
8.	Hang tongue
9.	Separate viscera and tie
10.	Cut off weasand
11.	Cut off melt
12.	Trim pluck and heart
13.	Separate pluck
14.	Trim liver - save gall and gallstones
15.	Trim paunch, peck and rennet
16.	Separate paunch, open peck and rennet
17.	Open paunch and dump
18.	Wash tripe (umbrella washer)
19.	Trim glands
20.	Skin slunk
21.	Trim cheek meat
22.	Scale fats
8/8/84
BRACKET
2
6
2
5
2
4
2
0
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
0
2
4
' 2
2
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
-22-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 19
BEEF CASINGS
1.	Run rounds
2.	cut out and pull bungs
3.	Flushing
4.	Pull ruffle and pancreas gland
5.	Separate middles
6.	Fat middles and bungs - shears
7 a Trim rounds, middles and bungs
8.	Wash and slime - rotary washer
9.	Skin bungs
10.	Bunch and salt bungs
11.	Trim middle ends
12.	Grade and salt middle ends
13.	Shake and resalt
14.	Count and pack to store or ship
15.	Measure, bunch and salt rounds and middles
16.	Resalt, count and bundle bung skins
17.	Pickle casings
18.	Machine fat rounds and middles
19.	Machine skin rounds and middles
8/8/84
BRACKET
6
4
2
4
4
8
2
2
3
1
6
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
-23-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 20
BEEF	TRIPE	BRACK
1.	Scald tripe	2
2.	Cook and chill tripe	2
3.	Scrape and finish tripe	6
4.	Inspect tripe	3
5.	Bleach tripe	2
6.	Wash tripe	2
7.	Pack and scale	2
8/8/84
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-26-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 22
BEEF CUTTING AND SPECIAL CUTTING ROOM
1.	Ribbing, canner and cutter boning
2.	Saw down, hand saw
3.	Lug quarters
4.	Lift or pole
5.	Grade cuts
6.	Cut off shanks
7.	Cut and pull clods
8.	Operate band saw
9.	Bone fore shanks
10* Unno 4. Xb a
11.	Bone plates or briskets
12.	Bone loins
13.	Bone sirloin
14.	Bone short loins
15.	Bone rumps
16.	Bone hips
17.	Bone hind shanks
18.	Bone quarters for T.R.M.
19.	Bone quarters for special orders
20.	Bone flanks
21.	Trim chucks
BRACKET
5
3 5 2
4 8 9
5 9
13
9
1-2
9
11
9
11
8
9
13
3
2
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
-27-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 22
BEEF CUTTING AND SPECIAL CUTTING ROOM
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37.
38
39.
40
41
42
43
Trim loins
Trim sirloin butts Trim strip loins Trim tenderloin Trim trimmings Trim finished rolls Trim crotch fat
Trim, roll, stitch and tie beef
Bone and fabricate cuts
Cut and pull tenderloin
Measure, cut or pull off flank
Strip, face and trim beef ham
Trim beef hams
Lug boneless beef
Wrap cuts * stockinette or burlap
Rail pushing
Operate patty forming machine Frenching (hand or machine)
Grind and mix meats
Ribbing - primal cutting and special cutting room Trim bones - power knife Packing meat in containers
8/8/84
BRACKET
4
4
2
4
5 2
4
5
15
9
5
9
4
4
3
0
3
2
3
8
2
2
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time'
28'
818/84
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 22
BEEF CUTTING AND SPECIAL CUTTING ROOM
44.	Cut steaks (band saw)
45.	Trim and dice beef trimmings for stewing beef
46.	Trim, cut and make steaks
47.	Lug and hang off bone-in primal cuts
48.	Package product using AG-4 Multivac machine
49.	Operate mechanical meat press
50.	Operate power cleaver
51.	Skin product on membrane skinning machine
BRACKET
3
3
3
3 2 2
4 2
it is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-29-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 23
BOXED BEEF
1.	Prepare carcasses for Boxed Beef break-up
2.	Cut carcass beef into cuts for Boxed Beef using large band saw
3.	Produce all types of cuts - boneless, semiboneless and bone-in for Boxed Beef (knife work)
4.	Operate trim band saw on Boxed Beef cuts
5.	Shipper, Boxed Beef
6.	Identify, label and pack Boxed Beef cuts
7.	Place bone guard on Boxed Beef cuts
3.	Bag Boxed Beef cuts
9.	Operate and feed vacuum machine
10.	Scale and record boxes
H. Operate powered fork lift, low lift (walk)
12.	Truck boxes, fat, bones, etc., raise, clean-up
13.	Bone out beef necks and shoulder pieces for trimmings
BRACKET
8
15
15
5
5
4
2
2
2
2
2
0
8
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
-30-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 29
HOG CASINGS
1.	Operate strip and slime machine
2.	Operate cleaning machine
3.	Pull and skin hog bungs
4.	Flush hog bungs
5.	Trim hog bungs
6.	Grade hog bungs
7.	Scrape and turn hog bungs
8.	Salt and pack hog bungs .
9.	Salt ungraded casings
10.	Shake, pack and mark for storage or shipment
11.	Unpack, shake and repack for shipment
12.	Remove cord and bladder skin from bung
13.	Strip to bleaching vat or tank
14.	Bunch and pack hog bungs
15.	Handle hog viscera to and from hog casing pulling machine
16.	Pull hog casings (machine)
17.	Pull ruffle fat from set after machine pulling hog casings
8/8/84
BRACKET
1
4
4 0 6
5 2 2 2
6 6
3 1 2
0
4
1
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
32
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 33
VARIETY MEATS COOLER
1.	Hang or spread variety meats
2.	Remove from rack or tray
3.	T Jin’ Jie® f Juugtunf
4.	Count and scale glands
5.	French meat - hand	or machine
6.	Grade sweetbreads
7.	Packing and scaling	product
8.	Grade beef or calf	livers	-
BRACKET
2
0
4
2
2
4
2
3
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that nay occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-35-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 36
DISTRIBUTION CENTRE		BRACKET
1. High stacker operator	(20 f t, lift minimum)	9
2, Order pickers and dock	workers	6
3. Merge operator		11
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may pddvs from time to time.
8/8/84
-36-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 37
RENDERING
1.	Wash and hash raw product
2.	Cut up product, feed crusher
3.	Inspect product, load tank or melter
4.	Operate tank, melter or dryer
5.	Draw off tallow or grease
6.	Wash and settle tallow or grease
7.	Feed expeller or press
a.	Operate expeller
9.	Operate catch basin
10.	Blend tallow
11.	Fill containers
12.	Refine grease
13.	Bleach and filter grease
14.	Trimming and knife work
15. Dmp truck - load dryer
16.	Grade tallow and grease
17.	Dmp dryers and tanks
18.	Attend and operate Pacific Separator Unit
19.	Attend manure screens and hog hair hopper
20.	Operate control panel
21.	Save blood from slunks
BRACKET
2
2
3 6
4 2 2 4 3
3 2 7 6 2 2
4
4
5 0
6 2
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
-38-
rate SCHEDULE
SECTION 40
TABLE-READY MEATS
1.	Receive	and scale meat
2.	Operate	frozen meat cutter
3.	Trim meats
4.	Grind meat
5.	Mix meat
6.	Chop meat for stuffing
7.	Formulate batches and chop meats Sausage Maker
8.	Scale meat	for batches
9.	Operatevacuumizer
10.	Stuff product in casings or moulds
H.	Stuff sausage using casing sizer
12.	Fill moulds by hand
13.	Scale trolleys
14.	Operate	smoke house
15.	Cook in	steam or water
16.	Remove loaf from mould
17.	Dip product in liquid
18.	Cook jellied meats
19.	Hang large piece sausage
20.	Operate chub forming machine
21.	Attend labelling machine
8/8/84
BRACKET
2
2
5 2 2 8
12
2
2
6 4
3 2
12
1
2 2
4 3
5 3
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-39-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 40
TABLE-READY MEATS
22.	Formulate on batch conveyor scale
23.	Operate Mapaco Mirer Blender and Mincemaster
24.	Service, attend and adjust Mahaffy & Harder vacuumizing and sealing unit
25.	Operate Frank-A-Matic and hang off
26.	Operate Koma Stuffer/Clipper
27.	Measure, weigh and mix,spice
28.	Soak and prepare casings
29.	Hand link sausage
30.	Tie stuffed sausage
31.	Hang sausage
32.	Chain link fresh sausage
33.	Scale product for packing
34.	Pack product in containers
35.	Stamp or brand sausage
36.	Attend wrapping machine
37.	Attend linker
38.	Feed wiener peeler
39.	Attend wiener peeler
40.	Peel wieners by hand
41.	Case off wieners, inspect, pack, check scale
BRACKET
7
12
5
5
6 2 0 4 3 3 2 2 2 0 2 3 1 2 1 2
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-41-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 42
SLICED TABLE-REfiDY MEATS
1.	Hone slicer knives
2.	Service, attend and adjust Mahaffy & Harder or Multivac R-70 vacuumizing and sealing unit
3.	Observe drafts of sliced meats for defects and
place in pockets of infeed conveyor
4.	Place product and operate slicer
5.	Scale, and pack product
6.	Case Off sliced meats ~ inspect, pack, check <irjkle
7.	Form and seal containers
8.	Place labels on stacks of meat on conveyor
BRACKET
2
5
2
3
2
2
0
1
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-42-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 43
HAM COOKING
1.	Place product in moulds and press
2.	Cook product in moulds - water, gas or electric
3.	Remove product from moulds
4.	Operate mould washing machine
5.	Trim ragged edges from product
BRACKET
2
7
2
1
2
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-43-
KATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 44
CANNED MEATS AND CANNED HV\tS
1.	Assemble and grind for batch
2.	Chop and mix meats
3.	Mix in vacuum mixer
4.	Vacuumizing meat
5.	Stuff meat into cans
6.	Operate crimping machine
7.	Operate wvhwts
8.	Cook in open kettle or tank
9.	Sterilize lids and cans
10.	Attend case sealer
11.	Weigh cereal, ice or water
12.	Place cans on conveyor
13.	Scale filled cans
14.	Level meat in can
15.	Fill retort basket V*. Wipe cans
17.	Label cans by hand
18.	Pack cans in containers and seal
19.	Check weight filled tins
20.	Attend and adjust automatic Pfetn filler
21.	Attend and adjust A.B.R. Can filler
BRACKET
2
9
2
2
2
4
10
4
1
1
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
4
4
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
on
-44-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 44
CANNED MEATS AND CANNED HAMS
22.	Attend and load baskets with Busse manual collector loader
23.	Attend and operate Busse Unloader and Unscrambler
24.	Attend and operate Knapp case packer
8/8/84
BRACKET
2
2
2
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time iptime.
-45-	8/8/84
riATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 46
REFINERY	BRACKET
1. Connect lines and prepare tank car - load or unload	6
2, Pump oil, tank to tank	4
3. Dig out or melt out fats from containers	2
4, Refine oil - tank refining	11
5. Set up or clean presses	2
6. Formulate batches	8
7. Operate deodorizers	9
a. Bleach or filter	8
9. Operate chill roll or votator	8
10. Dump product from containers	0
11. Inspect, fill and scale containers	2
12, Fill containers from spigot and place to automatic closer, no scaling	1
13. Operate case sealer	1
14, Refine prime steam lard	7
15. Check scale	2
16. Attend forming machine	2
17. Attending filling machine	2
18'. Attend closing machine	2
19. Fill containers, automatic filler	1
20. Line or label containers	0
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
REFINERY
-46-	8/8/84
RATE SCHEDULE SECTION 46
BRACKET
21. Case off prints - attend closing machine	2
22. Pack containers into cartons and seal	q
23.	Close cartons by hand	0
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
-48-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 61
AUTOMOTIVE 1*	Drive	truck
2.	Drive	tractor
3.	Check and add oil to crankcase
4.	Grease car or truck
5.	Wash car or truck
6.	Check and service tires and battery
7.	Repair and adjust motors, car or truck
8.	Minor	body repairs
9.	Drive	yard truck
10.	Drive	supply truck
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
BRACKET
12
3
5
6 2 2
23
6
6
9
	-49- 8/8/84 RATE SCHEDULE SECTION 63
YARD CLEANING	BRACKET
1« Clean yards,	roads and alleyways 0
2. Cut grass	0
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
50-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 67
EMPLOYEES MARKET
1.	Order, receive and store product
2.	Trim and cut roasts or steaks
3.	Roll and tie meat
BRACKET
4
3
3
SECTION 68
STOREROOM
1.	Stock clerk	5
2,	Assemble, pack, check and ship supplies	4
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-51-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 69
LAUNDRY	BRACKET
1.	Head laundryman	4
2.	Operate washing machine	3
3.	Operate wringer or dryer	3
4.	Distribute laundry	0
5.	Make minor repairs to outer work clothing	2
SECTION 70
PLANT JANITORS AND WATCH STAFF
1. Clean dressing rooms, lavatories, alleyways
and stairways	1
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
8/8/84
-53-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 72
CARPENTERS
1.	Carpenter
2.	Advanced helper
3.	Helper
4.	Remove, repair or lay tar
BRACKET
22
11
2
and gravel roof	9
ELECTRICIANS
5.	Electrician - locate and rectify electrical faults
6.	Electrician - install and repair wiring
7.	Inspect, clean and service electric motors
a.	Advanced helper
9.	Helper
10.	Change (jtli U bulbs
11.	Change storage batteries
25
22
23	>
11
2
2
8
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
-54-	8/8/84
RATE SCHEDULE SECTION 72
MECHANICAL	BUCKET
CERTIFIED TRADES APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM 12, Apprentice Certified Trades - 1st year	6
13, Apprentice Certified Trades - 2nd year	9
14. Apprentice Certified Trades - 3rd year	15
15, Apprentice Certified Trades - 4th year	20
MACHINE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE 16, Service and repair electronic control equipment and automatic machinery	25
17. Machinist	25
18. Advanced Helper	5
19. Helper	2
20. Pump repair	22
21. Lathe operator	24'
22, Drill Press operator	8
23. Sharpen plates and knives	4
24, Handyman	13
25, Killing floor mechanic	18
26. Inspect elevators and plant equipment	12
27. Repair, fit and assemble machine parts	23
28. Maintenance Helper	4
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
-58-
RATE SCHEDULE
SECTION 72
MECHANICAL
PROVINCIAL CERTIFIED TRADES
72.	Journeyman Welder (Pressure Certified)
73.	Journeyman Welder
74.	Journeyman Plumber, Steamfitter, Gas Fitter
75.	Journeyman Electrician
76.	Journeyman Millwright (Industrial Mechanic)
77.	Journeyman Tinsmith
78.	Journeyman Carpenter
79.	Journeyman Painter
80.	Journeyman Plasterer
82. Journeyman Plumber, Steamfitter
82.	Journeyman Machinist
83.	Journeyman Automotive
8/8/84
BRACKET
40
36
36
37 37 34 34 27 32
34 37
35
It is understood this does not preclude using unskilled labour rate on
other unskilled work not specified that may occur from time to time.
EXHIBIT "D11 PART II
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
■MAINTENANCE/MECHANICAL SERVICES
Page 1
CLASS III CLASS II
CLASS I
All Tradesmen with Journeyman Papers
All Tradesmen (without Journeyman Papers) possessing the required skills/ability to perform required repairs and services.
Oilers and greasers Knife sharpeners
DISTRIBUTION CENTRE CLASS V CLASS IV
CLASS III
CLASS II CLASS I GEN. LAB
Delivery Truck Drivers
Hlgtr Stacker Operator (20' minimum Lift) Shunt Truck Driver
Checker Merge Operator
vftatnr r-icker
All other Shipping/Load Related work All other work
RECEIVING & PLANT SERVICES
CLASS III CLASS II
CLASS I GEN. LAB
Supply Truck Driver
Deliver and Organize Product Attend Storeroom and Control Stock Freezerman - Stock Control Inventory
Operate Elevator
Janitor
Laundry
All Yard (Grounds) work
Page 2
PLANT SANITATION
CLASS I
GEN. LAB
LIVESTOCK PENS/YARDS
CLASS II
CLASS I GEN. LAB
HOG KILL (PORK DRESSING) CLASS VI
CLASS v
CLASS IV
CLASS III
CLASS II
All Plant Sanitation work involving cleaning,
disassemble/assemble of prodaccioa equipment
and areas.
All other work
Receiver/Scale Sort Cattle
Drive, Tattoo, Pen Stock & General Care of Animals, Operate Yard Tractor
All Other Work
-	Cut and disjoint head (Manual)
-	Spell out (Generalist)
-	Split
-	Eviscerate
-	Remove Pizzle & Cut Aitch Bone
Prone Stick
Scale Carcass
Save Variety Meats/Separate Pluck
Drop Bungs
Stun
Expose Gam Cord Open Brisket Open Belly Pull Leaf Lard
Trim Bruises/Assist Inspector Remove Tongues
Cut Off Head (Previously Disjointed)
Attend Scald Tank
Cut & Disjoint Heads (Mechanical)
Page 3
HOG KILL (PORK DRESSING) (Cont'd)
CLASS I
Gambrels, Trolleys (includes Beef) Trim Necks Drive Hogs Hang Off
Gambrell & Hang Off Shave
GEN. LAB
All Other Work
BEEF KILL (BEEF DRESSING) CLASS VI
CLASS V
CLASS IV
GLASS III
Scalping
Spell Out (Generalist)
Clean Hide on each side of Belly from Below
Under and/or COD to Brisket
Split
Eviscerate
Skin Brisket & Neck Operate Hide Puller Skin out Hind Legs
Cut Off Head & Tag
Scale
Sticker
Carcass Trim/Tail Removal/Defat Saw Brisket Cut Gut & Drop Bung Bone Heads
CLASS II
GEN. LAB
-	Remove Homs with Mechanical Dehomer
-	Cut out & trim Glands
-	Stun
-	Drive to Holding Pen
-	Shackle & Hoist
-	Skin & Cut off Front Legs
-	Scribe, Remove Spinal Cord
-	Save Blood
-	Rod Weasand
-	All QAhfiJi Work
M 5
Page 4
VARIETY MEATS (BEEF & PORK)
CLASS III
CLASS II CLASS I
GEN. LAB
Pull Beef Rounds by Hand
Pull Hog Casings & Operate Machine
Bone Pork Head^(iReaQveGljeekjneat)
Trim Beef Bungs with Sheers Condemned Room Operator
Operate Power Lift Truck All Packing/Scaling All Trimming (Knife Work)
Chisel Pork Heads
All Other Work
PORK CUTTING CLASS VI
CLASS v
CLASS IV CLASS III
CLASS II
CLASS I
Spell Gut (Generalist)
Shoulder Break (Band Saw)
Pull Back/Loins (Draw Knife)
Middle Separation
Rib Backs Rib Bellies Lift Neck Bones
Shoulder Separation (Keebler Knife) Ham Separation (Band Saw)
Bone/Trim Backs & Loins
Bone/Trim Picnics
Saw Back Bones (Power Saw)
Select Hog Carcasses for shipment Operate Mechanical Deboner (Includes set up and disassemble) Operate Mechanical Loin Puller
All Scaling Operation Operate C.V.P. Eguipment Operate Power Lift Truck Pull Butts (Mechanical Operation)
Bone Butts
Stamp/Grade/Inspect Meats All Other Knife Work
Page 5
PORK CUTTING (Cont'd)
CLASS I (Cont'd)	- All Other Saw Work
-	Wrap Product
-	Whizzard Knife Operators
-	All Mechanical Skinning Machines
GEN. LAB	- All Other Work
REFINERY & RENDERING (EDIBLE & INEDIBLE)
CLASS V CLASS IV
CLASS I
GEN. LAB
Refinery Operator (Tank Refining)
Operate Dry Rendering
Operate Pacific Separator (Tank House)
Operate Low Temperature Rendering
Operate Power Lift Truck
Case Off Prints while attending Closing Machine
Inspect. Fill & Scale Containers
Attend Forming/Filling & Closure Eguipment
All Other Work
BEEF CUTTING/FABRICATION & MILLWOODS
CLASS VI
Butcher for all Cuts (Generalist)
CLASS V CLASS IV
CLASS III CLASS II
Band Saw Operator (Cut Beef CCS for Boxed Beef)
Bone/Trim Cuts for Boxed Beef/C&C (Excludes Shanks, Full Plates, Flanks)
Other Boning
Operate Whizzard Knives
Frenching by Machine or Band
Operate Patty Forming Machine
Lug, Hang Off, Ship/Wrap Primal Cuts
Operate Power Cleaver/Mechanical Meat Press
Cut Steaks (Band Saw/Hand)
Operate Trim Saw for Boxed Beef Break Up
Scale & Record Weights
Identify, Pack & Ship Cuts
Place Bone Guard on Boxed Beef Cuts
Page 6
BEEF CUTTING?FABRICATION & MILLWOODS (Cont’d)
CLASS II (Cont'd)	- Bag All Cuts
-	Operate & Feed Vacuum Machine
-	Operate Power Lift Truck
-	Skin Product on Membrane Skinning Machine
GEN. LAB	- All Other Work
BEEF CARCASS COOLER & LOADING DOCK
CLASS III
CLASS II CLASS I
GEN. LAB
Rib Beef
Scale/Check Beef for Shipment/Receive
-	Operate Hoist to Load/Unload
-	Trim CCS for shipment
-	Saw/Cut Down Beef & Hang Off
-	Stamp/Tag/Wrap Carcass/Product
-	Select Carcass & Prepare for Shipping
All Other Work
PROCESSED MEATS SLICE & PACKAGE
CLASS II
Stock Control & Rotation Bacon Grader
CLASS I
GEN. LAB
Package Machine Operator Operate Bacon Mech. Press/Slicer Check Weigh Product on Slicing Lines Operate Power Life Trucks C.V.P. Machine Operator Cut Product for Cry-O-Vac Bulk Pack Scale Operator Operate Slicer
All Other Work
BREAKFAST SAUSAGE MANUFACTURE
CLASS IV	Formulate/Operate Silent Cutter
Page
BREAKFAST SAUSAGE MANUFACTURE (Coat’d)
CLASS I
GEN. LAB
Operate Power Lift Truck Check Weigh Product On Line Stuffer
Grind Meat 4 Assist Chopper Operator
All Other Work
CANNING 4 WATER COOK OPERATIONS
CLASS VI CLASS IV
Retort Operator
Formulator
'Look Product
CLASS II CLASS I
GEN. LAB
Closure Machine Operator (Inspect Seams)
Stuffer Operator All Scale Operations Operate Power Lift Truck Formulation Assistant
All Other Work
PROCESSED MEATS MANUFACTURE
CLASS VI CLASS IV
CLASS II
CLASS I
GEN. LAB
Smokehouse Operator
Formulate/Cook/Operate Chub Production Operate Roto Cut
Formulate Preblend/Speciality. Products
Operate Silent Cutter
Cook Jellied Meats
Frank-O-Matic Operator (IncludesAdjustments) Load 4 Unload Smokehouses Tipdl Control 4 Rotation
Operate Power Lift Truck Fill Moulds by Hand Net/Wrap Speciality Products Stuffer Operators Operate Pickle Injectors Hang & Comb Bellies
All Other Work
CURING CELLARS
CLASS V CLASS III
CLASS II
CLASS I
GEN. LAB
Page 8
BONING
Spell Out Boning (Generalist)
Pickle Maker
All Paced Boning Operations
Inventory Control/Product Organization Operate Massagers
-	Operate Pickle Injectors
-	All Other Knife Work
-	Operate Power Lift Truck
-	Whizsard Knife/Skinning Machine Operators
-	Grade Ham/Scale Operators
All Other Work
24
fclhj.qf.st Tn c.. Eenvpg'iQQ -! Voi uf e Gooe hne Dnn n f sribrhX psl f st! Joif sobiloabchV.0Lao.. ftfodbm28QP
(flFL-CIO/CLC) (950 production employees) :	A 52-month sf ofx bm bhsf f nf ou
f ggf duj Vwf! gspn! Kvof 1, 1986,! up Sep.tfijnb.eiT 30, 1990,! tfiumf.eJ jo! Efdfncfs bgis! b! x psl! tipqqbhf / Evsbijpo! pcj of hpiibijpot -!: ! n pou t/
jrfcfo-	ibo
Xbhft;	Fggfdujvrf	.I/OS'
3^6
Increases
X

! I pvst! pcj X psl
)I jsfe Qsj ps! up June 1, 1984)
Csbdl f u 1
<
—^includes-yonguc Jasaagsrh*
Csbd f u 20 )jochaeft Qrbtufsfs*
Csbdl fu 40
)j odm/eft ! Sfgsj hfsbuj po Fohj offs- 2nd Class) ■ He
40! qfs! xffl! ) vodi bohf e*/
$12.35
($11.39)
($13.59)
$15.^6
($15.19)
$12.72
$14.! 6! 3
Mb[Ip- ^ $V5Z22
Cbj e I prjebzt;	11 qf s! zf bs! ) vodi bohf e*l
Qbje \Abdbqpo;	3! xf f I t ! bguf s 2zfbs- 4 bgufs 5, 5! bgufs 10, 6 bgufs 20! boe! 7! bguf s 25
)vodi bohf e*I
7J7? k '				u-			3ivioi *onv 3SV3B0NI 1V101
							
Qi		7TZ				*TZTl	) -£,*h£.
Q i	>	TQQ'i		n-		>r?/	w/
o		0		0		~TW	tUl
Q		0		o		bb U	7*4i U/VHjl
•aJj| » M NOUVXN3HOflV.a 3SV8 31VU3N30 /QHVOB SS0U3V Q SIS*fl 3SV3U3NI						3BIV1VS 30VM	31 VO
□ dJ-WI vassd
~osT
S3A01dW3.a 0N
S33A01dlAI3 dO ON
S33ftNtXNOOSia I 0313130 31SIX3 IS1SIX3
□
□
□
DAIO
VI00
[""] NOI1N3ANOO 3yailrtl3yd iN3W33HOVjSbU
Wg
toiua3.1 aa sum 13 3snun HnaiuaiNv asva 30 auivivs ______________dim aor owv Q9sn aivw 3sva snoiA3Hd
		
		•E31V 'uoq.uouipg Noiivoon '•OUT SJ0UTP3 S BMwa RToidw 3 aiaisnaNi anCHHdvnooNVOjw saoo i|ofe/'npcpAoq n AMisnaNI t0 inn sv 101 3003 9Vi
• 5 TV NOISmONOO vn 30 30V1S 03S013 HOIHM IV 30V1S	50^/ SIOW N3 SN0UVI0005N S30 33dna SH1N0W Nl '03N dO NOLLVHna	
Q6U vl Nld 0N3Ud S31VNIWH31	TM/'l ananojA N3 33aiN3.a 3iva 31V0 3All03dd3	
7J?4/ A/ 1N3W3103U f>a 31V0 31 VO 1N31A131113S	Slow - ANOO VI 30 33Hna sow - iov mu	