UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
Local 1118
RED DEER, ALBERTA EFFECTIVE
MARCH 11, 1989 to MARCH 10, 1992
00299 (03)
INDEX
\rticle	Page
I	General........................... 1
II	Bargaining Agency ................. 2
III	Management........................ 3
IV	Gender,.......................... 3
V	Wages............................. 4
VI	Thirty-seven Hour Guarantee...... 6
VII	Hours of Work and Overtime ........ 8
VIII	Statutory Holidays................12
IX	Seniority ....................... 14
X	Vacations ........................ 19
XI	Grievance Procedure...............21
XII	Safety and Health..................24
XIII	Separation Allowance..............28
XIV	Work Methods......................30
XV	Contracting Out............... ■ • 31
XVI	Part-time Employees...........— 32
XVII	General..........................'33\
XVIII	Duration of	Agreement.............\40	)
Bracket Values and Labour Rates ... 44 Letters of Understanding	.	45, 48, 49 & 50
Job Rates ........................ 51
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and concluded at Red Deer, Alberta this ............ A.D. 1989.
Between:
FLETCHER'S FINE FOODS LTD.
7550 - 40th Avenue Bag 5641 Red Deer, Alberta
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company").
OF THE FIRST PART
and:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.,
LOCAL 1118
#4, 4917 - 48th Street Red Deer, Alberta
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union").
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE I— GENERAL
One of the main purposes of this Agreement is to maintain :n full force and effect a harmonious relationship between the {Managementand the Employees. No business can progress or prosper unless a mutual feeling of respect and confidence exists between the Managementand the Organization.
1
ARTICLE If — BARGAINING AGENCY
Section 1.
The Company or anyone authorized to act for it recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency as certified by the Labour Relations Board for the Province of Alberta, for its employees covered by this Agreement and hereby consents and agrees to negotiate with the Union, or any Committee thereof in any and all matters affecting the relationship between the said employer and employees set forth in this Agreement, who are members of the Union and who become members of the Union, which is chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, A.F.L. C.I.O. C.L.C. Local 1118, looking towards a peaceful and amicable settlement of any differences that may arise between the Company and the Union.
Section 2.
(a)	The Company agrees to retain in its employ, within the bargaining unit as outlined in Section 1, Article II, of this Agreement, only members of the Union in good standing.
The Company shall be free to hire new employees who are not members of the Union, provided said nonmembers, whether part-time or full time employees shall be eligible for membership in the Union, and shall make application within ten (10) days after employment and become members within thirty (30) working days.
(b)	The Company agrees to provide each new employee at the time of employment with a form letter outlining to the new employee his or her responsibility in regard to Union Membership, and to provide the Union in writing with the name and address of each employee to whom they have presented the form letter, along with the employee’s date of hire, the contents of the letter to be such that it is acceptable to the Company. The Company further agrees to provide the Chief Steward of the Union, once a month with a list containing names of all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous month.
2
Section 3.
(a)	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such fines, assessments and initiation fees as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union The regular monthly dues will be deducted from each bi-weekly pay cheque and the amount of each deduction will be arrived at by annualizing the deductions and dividing by twenty-six (26)
(b)	The Company will procure from such new and probationary employees the necessary membership applications and membership in the Union shall be granted within the above mentioned thirty day period
(c)	Money deducted from any pay period shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than two weeks from the date the dues are deducted, and accompanied by a printed statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions are made
ARTICLE III — MANAGEMENT
The management of the plant and direction of the working forces including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just cause, and the methods, processes and means of production or handling are vested exclusively in the Company, provided that this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against any employee or the Union, or to avoid any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV — GENDER
Except where specifically stated to the contrary, provisions of this Agreement apply to all employees in the bargaining unit.
3
ARTICLE V — WAGES
Section 1.
(a) (i) Date of Ratification (March 11, 1989) i 150/hr. Across the board increase on base rate.
(n) 1 year from Date of Ratification (March 11, 1990) + 150/hr. Across the board increase on base rate, (n) 2 years from Date of Ratification (March 11, 1991) i $400.00 lump sum to those employees on the payroll as of Date of Ratification (March 11, 1989).
Section 2.
(a)	Employees whose schedule calls for work on calendar Saturdays and Sundays or Statutory Holidays mentioned in this agreement shall be paid one and one-half (IV2) times their regular rate for all scheduled hours at regular rates for the purpose of the guarantee. Such premiums shall not be considered as part of the employee's basic rate.
(b)	The increments between brackets will remain at eight (8) cents for the duration of this contract.
Section 3.
When a qualified employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job he shall receivethe higher rate while doing so, but if required temporarily to fill a lower rated job he shall receive his higher rate, A qualified employee working fifty percent or more of his time on the highest rated job shall be paid at that rate.
For the purposes of this section, the 50% calculation is done on a daily basis. If a statutory holiday falls at the end of or in the middle of a period when an employee is temporarily performing a higher rated job, the employee will be paid for the statutory holiday at the higher rated job.
Section 4.
(a) Employees shall receivethe applicable job rates provided for in the wage schedule for the job or jobs they perform when they become qualified.
4
(b)	The word "qualified" as used in this Agreement shall be interpreted to mean ability to regularly perform the job
without instruction car assistance. Except by agreement with the Union, the period of qualifying shall not exceed six (6) weeks, after which the rate shall be paid.
(c)	Instruction or assistance in training any employee may be given by a supervisory officer of the Company or by an employee designated by the Plant Superintendent or Department Supervisor.
Section 5.
(a)	If due to lack of work, an employee is transferred for a period of less than twelve (12) weeks to work where the job rate is lower, he shall retain his regular job rate while so doing. At the expiration of twelve {12) weeks the lower job rate shall prevail. The twelve week period shall be extended one (1) day for each day the employee is required to return temporarily to his previous higher rated work. However, should the employee he returned temporarily to his former job for a period of three (3) consecutive weeks or more, the twelve (12) week period will recommence from the day he/she again returns to a lower rated job.
(b)	If an employee is transferred to a lower rated job on a job posting or at the employee's request, then the lower rate of pay shall apply immediately.
Section 6.
(a)	An off shift premium of thirty-five (35) cents per hour will be paid for all hours worked between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(b)	An employee whose schedule calls for work to commence at any time other than between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. inclusive shall receive an off shift premium of thirty-five (35) cents per hour for all hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
5
Section 7.
The Company shall show on the pay envelope of each employee the hours worked regularly, those at time and one-half and those at double time, the employee's rate and total monies earned for each pay period along with a complete list of all deductions made by the Company.
Section 8.
An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if, as a result of such injury he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department; but, if such is not possible, then by a Company representative. The Company agrees to provide transportation for medical treatment to employees as a result of a serious accident. The Company agrees that the intent of this clause would mean a ride to and from the hospital.
Section 9.
Attached to this Agreement shall be a wage schedule covering all employees in the bargaining unit.
Section 10.
Employees working in the plant performing a job that requires them to work for more than one (t) continuous hour in temperatures below 2 degrees Celsius shall receive a premium of twenty-five (25) cents per hour for all hours so worked.
ARTICLE VI — THIRTY-SEVEN HOUR GUARANTEE
The Company agrees to guarantee a minimum of thirty-seven (37) hours per weekexcept in the case of powerfailures or major equipment breakdowns over two hours. In which case the minimum guarantee shall bethirty-four (34) hours per week or pay in lieu of work exclusive of overtime and night shift premium, except as herein provided.
Section 1.
An employee who is absent from work for all personal reasons on any day that his gang works, shall have his guarantee for the week concerned reduced by the number of hours missed by such absence.
6
Section 2.
An employee who is excused from work for part of a day, for
any personal reason, shall have his guarantee reduced for the
week concerned by the number of hours of work which he missed by such absence.
Section 3.
An employee who starts after the first of the payroll week shall be guaranteed for such starting week, that fraction of the guarantee which the number of hours remaining of the payroll week is of forty hours.
Section 4.
Employees with seniority on lay-off notice shall be entitled to their guaranteed payment for the week in which notice is given. Should notice extend into subsequent week, then the employee shall be entitled to their guaranteed hours of pay for each day of their notice period.
Section 5.
When it is apparent that a gang is going to work less than the guaranteed hours in any one week, it is permissable to use all of the gang on other work in order to avoid the guaranteed time penalty, reasonable consideration being given to change in working conditions, ability and seniority.
Section 6.
The guarantee shall bethe same in the holiday weeks as all others. Pay received for any public holidays, or in the case of off shift days in lieu of, shall be considered as earnings for the purpose of calculating the guarantee, unless such pay is for hours which fall outside an employee's schedule.
Section 7.
In order to meet the demands of the business the Company may hire part-time workers excluded from the provisions of this Article for work of twenty-four (24) hours or less in a payroll week, provided the Union is notified when the employees are hired. Such part-time workers will be the first employees subject to layoff in the event of a layoff occuring in the plant.
7
ARTICLE VII — HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 1.
The normal work week shall be eight (8) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week, Monday through Friday. The schedule of hours is to be posted on the bulletin board and agreed to by both parties.
Section 2.
The schedule of hours referred to in Section 1 shall be regular schedules providing for regular steady shifts, not swing shifts. Swing shifts shall apply only by a mutual agreementwith the Union Committee and the Management.
Section 3.
In compliance with Section2 it is understood and agreed by both parties to this Agreement that the creation of steady shifts will not interfere with the efficiency of department or plant operations.
Section 4.
(a)	All time worked before or afterthe above schedule of hours shall be paid for at one and one-half (IV2) times the employee's regular rate of pay. If by necessity an hourly rated employee is required to work in excess of 11 continuous hours, he shall be paid double time for such additional hours.
(b)	The Company and the Union recognize that it may be necessary for employees to work in excess of their regular number of hours due to fluctuating livestock receipts and variable volume, but the Company will limit hours of work beyond such regular number of hours to what is reasonable.
The method to be used to select employees to work any necessary overtime will be by department on a voluntary basis by seniority, but in the event the number required is not obtained by this method, it will be mandatory for employees in the reverse of seniority order.
8
Mandatory overtime will be limited to two hours per day
and eight hours per week foreach employee. Employees
who have notified the Company of medical or dental appointments prior to the start of their shift shall be excused from the above.
(c)	When overtime is necessary, the Union Steward of the department concerned shall be notified. The employee posted on the job for which overtime is required shall have the first option of working the overtime. In the event this employee does not wish to work the overtime the supervisor will then canvass the other employees within the department as to their individual wishes. This canvass is to be conducted in the order of senior qualified person, to junior qualified person.
If any qualified person is inadvertently missed in this rotation, he shall be given the first opportunity the nexttime overtime is required in the department.
In the event the necessary number of employees are not obtained within the department, the Company may draw employees from other departments in the plant on the basis of senior qualified employee available at the time overtime is requested.
Where overtime on off shifts is required, the Company shall discuss the matter with the available Shop Steward arid make the call-ins.
Section 5.
(a)	Overtime rates of one and one-half (1V2) times the regular hourly rates shall be paid for any time worked in excess of the scheduled hours as agreed to in this Article, up to three (3) hours in any one day and double time thereafter.
(b)	Double the regular hourly rates shall be paid to all employees for work performed on Sunday, except where the work regularly falls on Sunday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid double the regular hourly rate if he works on his day off in lieu of Sunday.
9
(c)	One and one-half (1%) times the employees regular rate shall be paid for the first four (4) hours of work performed on a Saturday and double time thereafter.
Section 6.
Employees when called for work shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay for that day at their regular job rate. Under this provision workers shall not leave of their own accord when work is available. For work performed on Saturdays, Sundays or statutory holidays, the employee shall receive the guaranteed four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rate. Section 7.
Any hourly rated employee who, after leaving the Company's premises, is specially called in at any time outside his normal working hours shall be through when the emergency is over, but shall nevertheless be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rates.
Section 8.
Employees shall not be required, except in cases of emergency, to work more than five (5) hours without the first meal period and five (5) hours without the second meal period. The second meal period shall be one-half (Vfe) hour on Company time and the meal shall be supplied free of charge by the Company. If due to circumstances the Company does not provide a meal a cash equivalent will be added to his gross earnings for that fiscal week. The truck drivers shall produce a voucher for reimbursement purposes. The meal allowance referred to will be five (5) dollars.
Section 9.
Employees required to work more than five (5) hours without a meal period shall be compensated at one and one-half (IV2) times the regular hourly rate for all time worked in excess of five (5) hours until a meal period is granted. Employees engaged in continuous shift operations shall be exempt from this clause, but shall be entitled to a lunch period of thirty (30) minutes on Company time. In the event of an earlier than normal start the Company shall have the right to change the time of the meal period in order to avoid the double penalty.
10
Section 10.
(a) Continuous shift operations shall be given forty-eight (48) hours notice of change of shifts except in an emergency Employees who because of an emergency are required to change shifts shall be paid the applicable overtime rate until the expiration of the 48 hour notice
(c)	Single shift employees shall be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of change of shift except in an emergancy Employees who because of an emergency are required to change shifts shall be paid the applicable overtime rates until the expiration of the twenty-four (24) hours
Section 11.
(a)	The Company shall provide a qualified operator for the sharpening of tools, knives, etc This operator will be responsible for all sharpening of this equipment in the plant
(b)	The Company shall furnish all knives, scabbards, steels, whetstones, triers and hooks which it considers necessary for the performane of the work by the employees and shall establish regulations in respect thereto The Company agrees to maintain its present practice of furnishing heavy tools All tools furnished shall remain Company property
Section 12.
A fifteen (15) minute rest period will be given twice each shift, midway before lunch and midway after lunch provided that each work period is of not more than two and one-half (2V2) hours It is agreed that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not askforadditionaltime off during the day It is mutually agreed that rest periods shall not be abused
Section 13.
The Company and the Union agree that in the event of a work shortage, ways and means will be discussed in an attempt to shorten the working hours of the week, in preference to laying off of employees
11
Section 14.
If any female employee is engaged or is presently working in the plant they shall receive exactly the same rate of wages as male employees, if they are performing the task usually or previously performed by a male employee, providing, however, that the employee is as qualified to do the same work and is physically capable of doing same.
Section 15.
When other than emergency overtime is to be worked, every reasonable effort will be made to rehire employees who may be on layoff status in the department where overtime is to be worked.
Section 16.
A holiday shall be an employee's regular shift on a holiday. Section 17.
Whenever an employee performs work outside his regular schedule he need not be required to take time off to bring his hours down to the standard working week.
ARTICLE VIII — STATUTORY HOLIDAYS Section 1.
Ten (10) statutory holidays shall be recognized and a regular hourly paid employee, who is not exempt from the weekly pay guarantee as set out in Section 1 of Article VI hereof, and who has earnings on the payroll in the plant week containing the holiday, shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his job rate. If an employee works on any such holiday or in the case of off-shift the day in lieu of, he shall receive in addition, pay for hours actually worked on the holiday (or day substituted in the event of the holiday falling on Sunday), at two (2) times his job rate.
12
The statutory holidays referred to herein are:
Nm Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day First Monday in August
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Employees absent on the regularly scheduled work days
next preceding or next following any public holiday shall not be
entitled to pay for such holiday unless the absentee received
permission from the Company, to be absent or was absent because of sickness or for other good cause arising from
circumstances beyond his control. The Company will advise the Union in writing of such deductions.
Effective immediately, all employees that are absent the day before or the day after a statutory holiday must produce a doctor's certificate for the day of absence. Failure to provide this to payroll office will result in no pay ror the statutory holiday. This applies to absences due to sick ess only.
Section 2.
In the event of a holiday falling on Sunday it shall be observed on the day substituted by the Dominion Government. If the Dominion or Provincial Governments proclaim some other day to be generally observed, hourly rated employees required to work on it shall for the hours so worked receive three (3) times their regular hourly rates. If such day is in substitution for a holiday hereinafterspecified, the penalty rate shall not apply to both days. If a paid Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday, the Friday prior to the Saturday shall be observed as the holiday. If a paid Statutory Holiday falls on a Sunday, the Monday immediately following the Sunday shall be observed as the holiday.
Section 3.
Any employee having fifteen (15) days accumulated service with the Company, who is laid off prior to a recognized holiday in the same payroll week in which such holiday occurs shall be entitled to receive pay for such holiday.
13
Section 4.
An employee who is absent from work and receiving benefits for reason of sickness, compensable or non-compensable accident, during the period in which a recognized paid statutory holiday occurs, shall receive the difference between his compensation or Weekly Indemnity pay and his regular rate of pay with limitation as defined in the Weekly Indemnity Plan.
When a recognized statutory holiday falls during the 3-day waiting period for Weekly Indemnity benefits, an employee eligible for these benefits shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate of pay for each such statutory holiday.
Any employee who is no longer eligible for Weekly Indemnity benefits and is still disabled shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for any statutory holiday following within three (3) calendar months from the onset of such disability. Section 5.
An employee on leave of absence shall be paid statutory holiday pay when either of the following conditions exist:
(a)	if an employee works his regularly scheduled work day preceding a paid statutory holiday and is on leave of absence on the regularly scheduled work day next following that stat, he shall be eligible for payment of stat pay for that statutory holiday.
(b)	If an employee works his last regularly scheduled work day prior to going on leave of absence and, as expected, returns to work on the regularly scheduled work day next following a paid statutory holiday, he shall be eligible for payment of stat pay for that statutory holiday.
Section 6.
If any of the paid holidays referred to in this Article occur while an employee is on leave of absence to attend Union functions he shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate.
ARTICLE IX — SENIORITY
Section 1.
Seniority shall be defined as the length of an employee's service within the bargaining unit, calculated as the elapsed time from the day he was first employed, unless his seniority was broken, in which event such calculation shall be from the date he returned to workfollowing the last break in his seniority.
Section 2,
Employees Shall not acquire any seniority rights until they nave accumulated sixty (60) days worked at which time they are entitled to plant seniority from the original day of employment.
Section 3.
Seniority lists shall berevisedand brought up-to-date every two (2) months and the Company shall supply sufficient copies to the Union.
Section 4.
(a)	In the bargaining unitthe filling of vacancies shall be based on ability and seniority. Ability being sufficient after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. A reasonable trial shall not exceed six (6) weeks.
(b)	Vacancies within the bargainingu nit shall be posted for five (5) working days to give employees with seniority ample time to apply. In the case that no pplication is received for any posting, the vacancy shall be filled by the junior qualified employee available until the junior employee in the plant is trained for the job posting. Transfers to jobs will be made within ten (10) working davs from the date the posting was awarded with the provision that wherever this proves impossible, suitablearrangements will be arrived at after consultation with the Union. An employee who was absent when a vacancy is filled shall receive equal consideration provided the department steward notifies the Company in writing that an employee in his department wishes to apply for the vacancy. There shall he no more than two (2) job postings per employee per calendar year
Section 5.
Seniority service records shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited and there shall be no obligation to rehire when an employee:
(a) Voluntarily leaves the service of the bargaining unit, the Company, or is discharged for just cause.
15
(b) After being laid off by the Company, fails to report for work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company The present method cf contact, by telephone, and registered letter to the employee at the last known address shall constitute a reasonable effort
(c)
on the pari of the Company, and if within two (2) working days after receipt of such notice, the employee fails to report for duty, or advise the Company that he will report within five (5) working days, the Company shall be entitled to assume that the said employee left the Company service voluntarily
Has been laid off for a period longer than the time allowed in the following schedule
Length of Seniority	Length of Allowable
at Date of	Time
Separation	Off Payroll
Less Than One Year	Six Months
One Year and Over	Two Years Maximum
Section 6,
Absence from work because of sickness, accident, or leave of absence, shall not break continuity of seniority rights and an employee shall return to the position held prior to the absence or to one of equal rating provided he is able to perform the work that is available within the customary trial period of not more than six (6) weeks Section 7,
In the case of reduction in the working force the order of layoff shall be as follows
(a)	Probationary employees, le, those with less than sixty
(60) days worked
(b)	Those with plant seniority
In the latter case, seniority shall be the determining factor provided the senior operator, after a reasonable time to qualify, is capable of doing the work performed by an employee with less seniority except where immediate essential qualifications are necessary for the efficient operaton of the plant In such cases the Company will discuss the matter with the Union
16
Section 8.
(a)	in cases of increases in the working forces, rehiring shall be in the reverse order to that of layoffs. The Company shall advise the Union when a layoff is about to take place and shall give the Union a list of employees to be laid off or rehired. Incases where it is necessary to secure workers in less time than the required notice, the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee may recall the next senior employee and so on down the list until the vacancies are filled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time, he shall be given the work Fcrwhich the next senior employee was recalled.
(b)	In the case of layoff, other than in the event of emergencies herein referred to, employees shall be given one (1) working day's notice for every, completed six (6) months seniority, with a minimum notice of two (2) working days. Incase of an emergency due to cause? beyond the Company's control which results in the closing of a part or whole of the plant employees shall be given one (1) calendar day's notice for every completed six (6) months seniority with a maximum notice of five (5) working days notice and with a minimum notice of two (2) working days but such two days shall be exclusive of Saturday and Sunday. If the Company determines that additional work not to exceed three (3)
days is available at the time any layoff is to become effective then the notice shall be deemed to be extended for the period represented by such additional days of work.
(c)	Employees with seniority may be temporarily recalled for ten (10) working days or less, as casual help with no layoff notice given, provided that this shall not be used as discrimination to any employees, and provided that the
employees and the Union is informed that such work is of a temporary nature.
17
Section 9.
When it is necessary to permanently transfer employees to lower rated jobs because of a shortage of work the employees with the lowest seniority will be required to take the transfer In the case of temporary transfers the basis shall be that of the junior qualified employee
Section 10.
In cases of gang reduction or increases, an employee may elect to take a layoff or continue to be laid off if it is mutually agreed that the work which is available could prove detrimental to the health of the employee
Section 11.
Employees, not to exceed two (2), who are appointed to or elected to do business for the Union shall be granted leave of absence without pay to attend to such business Such employees shall continue to accumulate seniority for the period covered by this Agreement, and upon giving the Company one week's notice in writing of their intention to return to work shall be reinstated in the job held prior to the leave of absence or its equivalent, at the same rate of pay provided they are capable of doing the job within the usual qualifying period Section 12.
Employees shall notify the Company at once of all changes of address and telephone numbers, temporary or permanent Failure of the employee to do so will relieve the Company of any responsibilities they may have under this Agreement
Section 13
Upon an employee accepting promotion outside the bargaining unit, the Company will informthe Chief Steward of the Union by letter as to the date of acceptance Said employee shall be allowed six (6) months in which to prove himself capable of filling the position concerned If such employee does not qualify within such time, he shall report to his former position without loss of seniority Provided that if before the expiry of six (6) months, he may be required to revert to his former position before suchtiniie without prejudice and without loss of seniority
Section 14.
Leave Of absence for the purposie of attending Union schools, conventions, conferences, or negotiations of this Agreement shall be granted by the Company on a written request from the Local Union subject to the following conditions. Employees chosen by the Union shall be granted leave of absence not to exceed thirty (30) days, providing that the absence of such employee shall not unreasonably affect the operations of the Company. Whenever possible the Union shall give the Company written notice of not less than fourteen (14) days before the requested leave is to commence.
A request for an extension cf a leave of absence must be made prior to the expiration of the leave already granted and will be considered in relation to existing conditions
The Company agrees to allow 1% of the bargaining unit to be away at any given time. However, under no circumstances is it permissible to have more than two people absent from one department per shift.
Section 15.
Employees, may in case of ill-health, be transferred from one department to another, as may be mutually agreed upon.
Section 16.
Disabled or handicapped employees will be assigned to jobs wherever possible without regard to seniority at a rate or rates agreed upon.
ARTICLE X — VACATIONS
Vacation with pay should be granted as follows:
Section 1.
An employee becomes eligible for vacation after one year when the employment records show the following:
(a)	They have attained seniority within six (6) months from date of hire; and
(b)	Have not been off the payroll for more than sixty (60) consecutive days.
19
Paymentfor this first vacation entitlement will be calculated at four (4) percent of the gross earnings in the period.
As of January 1, 1983 any employee attaining seniority rights and meeting the above requirements will have the same vacation date as seniority date.
In the event the employee is off the payroll for longer than sixty (60) consecutive days, the vacation date becomes the date of rehire.
Section 2.
Three (3) weeks vacation annually after four (4) years service with the Company.
Section 3.
Four (4) weeks vacation annually after ten (10) years service with the Company.
Section 4.
Five (5) weeks vacation annually after twenty (20) years service with the Company.
Section 5.
Six (6) weeks vacation annually aftertwenty-five (25) years service with the Company.
Section 6.
Pay for each week of holidaysgranted shall be on the basis of forty (40) hours pay at the employee's regular hourly rate of pay or two (2) percent of gross earnings for each week of holiday, whichever is the greater. The Company agrees that employees are entitled to receive their vacation pay on the last day worked before commencing their vacation. This is provided the employee provides three (3) days notice to their supervisor.
Section 7.
(a) Employees absent for reasons of sickness, and/or accident, who return to work following these phases within the year, shall nevertheless be entitled to annual vacations as set out in Article X, and pay for such vacation shall be provided for in Article X.
20
(b) In case of sickness, compensable and non-compensable accident certified by a practicing physician, an employee, upon his return to the service of the Company, shall receive service credit for each week of such absence, not to exceed twenty-six (26) weeks, as if earnings had been received. The above credits shall be confined to one year's vacation rights on the basis of forty (40) hours per week for the twenty-six week (26) period at his regular rate of pay.
Section 8.
Employees whose service with the Company terminates before the end of any vacation year, shall receive compensation therefore, in accordance with the provisions of the "Annual Holidays Act," of the Province of Alberta.
Section 9.
Vacation periods shall be arranged subject to the demands of the business, but a sincere effort will be made to arrange vacations at a time convenient to all in accordance with the seniority of the employees respectively. Each year upon completion of vacation lists, they will be posted on the bulletin board.
Section 10.
If a paid statutory holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the Company will allow the employee concerned a compensatory day's holiday with pay.
Section 11.
Employees with five (5) years or more seniority with the Company will be entitled to their full vacation during the summer months every four (4) years. On the basis of twenty-five (25) percent of those eligible in each year in order of seniority.
ARTICLE XI — GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Should differences arise between the Union or its employee members and the Company as to the manner and application of the provisions of this Agreement, the Union will not authorize, promote, direct, condone or encourage any
21
strike, stoppage or suspension of work, any slowdown or other restriction of production or interference with work in or about the Company's plant or premises, norwill employees take part in any such action.
The Company agrees not to lock out employees during the term of this Agreement. An earnest effort will be made to settle all matters promptly in the following manner:
When an employee is suspended, dismissed, or given written discipline the Company shall have a Union Representative present at the time of such action
Section 1.
Shop Stewards may initiate discussions with the supervisors on any potential grievances within their departments. If this action does not solve the matter, a representative of the Union will be allowed to further investigate. In the event that either a Union Steward or a Union Representative must leave his job or department in connection with the matter, he shall first notify his supervisor as to what department he is going to and give an explanation why he is going. They must report to the supervisor in charge of the department they wish to enter before contacting any employee in said department.
Section 2.
STEP 1: The employee shall first take the question up with his shop steward and supervisor at the same time.
Section 3.
STEP 2: If the case is not settled, then it shall be handled between the Chief Steward and the department steward where the grievance was initiated, with or without the aggrieved employee, and the Plant Superintendent, or his designee.
Section 4.
STEP 3: In the event that no conclusion is reached in the two (2) preceding steps, a meeting shall be scheduled betweenthe Grievance Committee and the Company. An outside Union representative may attend this meeting. Also, the aggrieved employee may attend to present his evidence.
22
Section 5.
When a settlement is reached at any stage of the procedure, such decision shall be final and binding
Section 6.
If an employee is dismissed for any reason and feels that he has been unjustly dismissed, he shall within three (3) working days from the receipt of notice of dismissal, notify the Grievance Committee The Grievance Committee will in turn notify the Company on the same day they receive such notice from the employee
The dismissal in question then shall constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with as such, beginning at the third step
Section 7.
If subsequently it is decided thatthe employee was unjustly dismissed, he shall be reinstated to his former position and shall be compensated for any benefits or lost time The rate to be used for lost time is his applicable rate of pay
Section 8.
There shall be time limits of two (2) working days between each step of the grievance procedure, unless changed by mutual agreement
Section 9.
All grievances shall betaken up on Company time during regular working hours
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE Section 1.
A Grievance Committee of three (3) who shall be regular employees of the Company, shall be elected by the Union, in a manner determined by them, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of this Committee Grievances shall be taken up at such times agreeable to both parties
23
Section 2.
Where the foregoing procedure for the settlement of disputes has been employed, and the dispute remains unsettled, the dispute shall be referred to an Arbitration Committee consisting of three (3) members, one to be appointed by the Union, one by the Company and the third who shall act as Chairman to be mutually agreed upon by the other two. If agreement cannot be reached within one (1) week as to the appointment of a third member, he shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour for the Provinceof Alberta. A decision of the majority of the Arbitration Committee shall be deemed to be a decision of the Committee. In reaching its decision the Committee shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement. Decisions rendered shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned. The Company and the Union agree to bear an equal share of expense incurred, if any, by reason of employment of a third member of an Arbitration Committee.
Section 3.
A single arbitrator may be substituted for the arbitration committee referred to in Section 2 if mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union. This single arbitrator is to be appointed jointly by the Company and the Union, and the nominee's expenses are to be shared on a 50-50 basis.
ARTICLE XII — SAFETY AND HEALTH Section 1. Co-operation on Safety
The Union and the Employershall co-operate in establishing rules and practices which promote an occupational environment which will enhance the physiological and psychological conditions of employees and which will provide protection from factors adversetoemployee health and safety.
Section 2. Union—Employer Health and Safety Committee
A Health and Safety Committee shall be established which is composed of two Union and two Employer representatives.
24
The Health and Safety Committee shall hold meetings as requested by the Union or by the Employer for jointly considering, monitoring, inspecting, investigating and reviewing health and safety conditions and practices and to improve existing health and safety conditions and practices
Minutes shall be taken of all meetings and copies shall be sent to the Employer and the Union A Union Health and Safety Representative shall have the right to participate in the monitoring of the work place and to accompany government safety inspectors on inspection tours
Section 3. Health and Safety Committee Pay Provisions
Time spent by members of the Committee in the course of their duties shall be considered as time worked and shall be paid for in accordance with the terms cf this Agreement
Section 4. Health and Safety Clothing,
Tools and Equipment
The Employer shall provide all employees working in any unsanitary or potentially hazardous jobs with all the necessary tools, protective equipment and protective clothing required These shall be maintained and replaced, where necessary through normal wear and tear at the Employers expense It is recognized that such protective equipment and clothing are temporary measures The conditions necessitating their use shall be subjected to further corrective measures through engineering changes or the elimination of the hazard
Section 5. Monitoring Equipment
The Employer shall provide and maintain work place monitoring equipment for detectingand recording potential and actual health and safety hazards
25
Section 6. Compliance with Health and Safety Legislation
The Employer shall comply with all applicable federal, provincial and municipal health and safety legislation and regulations, All standards established under the legislation and regulations shall constitute minimum acceptable practice to be improved upon by agreement of the Union-Employer Health and Safety Committee or negotiations with the Union.
Section 7. Disclosure of Information
The Employer shall provide the Union written information which identifies all the biological agents, compounds, substances, by-products and physical hazards associated with the work environment. Where applicable, this information shall include, but not restricted to, the chemical breakdown of trade name descriptions, information on known and suspected potential hazards, the maximum concentration exposure levels, precautions to betaken, symptoms, medical treatment and antidotes.
Section 8. Safety and Health Records,
Reports and Data
The Employer shall provide the Health and Safety Committee upon request all accident reports and other health and safety records in the possession of the employer, including records, reports and data provided to and by the Workers' Compensation Board and other government departments and agencies
Section 9. Time Off for Health and Safety Training
Union members of the Health and Safety Committee shall be entitled to time off from work with no loss of seniority or earnings to attend seminars sponsored by the Alberta Workers' Compensation Board for instruction and upgrading on health and safety matters.
26
Section 10. Right to Refuse and No Disciplinary Action
No employee shall be discharged, penalized or disciplined for refusing to work on a job or in any workplace or to operate any equipment where he/she in conjunction with the Health and Safety Committee, ascertains that it would be unsafe or unhealthy to himself/herself, an unborn child, a workmate or the public, or where it would be contrary to the applicable federal, provincial or municipal health and safety legislation or regulations There shall be no lossof pay or seniority during the period of refusal No employee shall be ordered or permitted to work on a job which anotherworker has refused until the matter is investigated by the Health and Safety Committee and satisfactorily settled
Section 11. Proper Training
No employee shall be required to work on any job or operate any piece of equipment until he/she has received proper training and instructions
Section 12. Injury Pay Provisions
An employee who is injured during working hours, and is required to leave for treatment or is sent home as a result of such injury shall receive payment for the remainder of the shift at his/her regular rate of pay without deduction from sick leave unless a doctor or nurse states that the employee is fit for further work on that shift
Section 13. Transportation of Accident Victims
Transportation to the nearest physician or hospital for employees requiring medical care as a result of an accident shall be at the expense of the Employer
Section 14. Health and Safety Grievance
Where a dispute involving a question of general application or interpretation of this Article occurs, it shall be subject to the grievance procedure
27
ARTICLE XIII — SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
Section 1.
Should it become necessary to close the plant or a substantial department of the plant and it is not expected that those affected will be re-employed, a separation allowance will be paid to employees subject to the following:
(a)	They have one (1) or more years seniority
(b)	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid off within ninety (90) days preceding the date of notice of closing. Employees on leave of absence up to one year, and employees receiving Workers' Compensation or off because of sickness or non-compensable accident will be eligible, provided they have not been off work in excess of the time limits corresponding to seniority as set out in Article IX, Section 5(c).
(c)	They have not been granted retirement pension
(d)	The closing is not brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown or other cessation of work, fire, government action or Act of God.
(e)	I n order to qualify for separation allowance employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
(f)	Separation allowances shall be computed on the basis of the following schedulewhich is to be used in computing the number of weeks' pay according to the years of credited service. Payments are to be computed on the basis of forty (40) hours per week or the employee's basic work week if different at his regular rate of pay.
28
Years of Credited
Service
1 ...........................
2		^
3	..................... .........................
4	.....................................
5	............................... "	"
6	............................... '	'
7	..................................... "	'
8	...............................................
9	.....................
10		
11	and over, add to 1V2 weeks' pay for each year of credited service above ten (10) years.
Weeks of Pay 1
1V2
2
2V2
3
31/?.
41/2
51/2
6V2
71/2
Example:
12 years of credited service'
First 10 years of credited service........7V2 weeks' pay
Service over 10 years
(12/10 or 2 x 1V2) .................... 3 weeks' pay
Total Separation allowance...............1.01/2 weeks' pay
To the Separation Allowance computed as per example add vacation pay for the current calendar year if the employee has qualified for but not taken such (vacation.
(g)	The Company shall give notice of its intention to close the plant or a substantial department of the plant referred to in this Agreement, at least 90 calendar days prior to such closing. Effective on the date of such notice being issued all employees with seniority will be eligible to receive separation payments whether they are working or laid off.
Section 2.
Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall on doing so terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement or under any other Agreement between the signing parties.
29
Section 3.
In the event that part of the plant remains open, employees eligible to receive separation allowance may electto remain on the seniority list for possible recall. The Company will hold the separation allowance for such employees as long as they are eligible for recall, during which time the employee may request payment subject to the provision of the above section. Those re-employed on this basis will receive seniority credits up to the time of their layoff but shall not accumulate additional seniority during the period of layoff.
Section 4.
In respect of those employees who are eligible for separation allowance under this Article, the Company will continueto contribute to the Group Life Insurance, Medical Surgical, Major Medical and Hospitalization plans. Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to three (3) months following the month i n which the plant is closed and will be made on the basis existing at the time of closing.
ARTICLE XIV — WORKMETHODS Change in Working Methods
Section 1.
(a)	When the introduction of new equipment makes a material change which is expected to result in the closing of a department or a substantial reduction in the number of employees in a department, the Company will inform the Chief Steward of the Union of such change at least ninety (90) days in advance of the contemplated change and the parties will discuss what is expected to take place and how the matter may best be handled. Employees who are eligible for placement in the plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Article V, Section 5(a). Employees with one (1) or more years of seniority who are affected by such change and who are not eligible for placement in the plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Article XIII, Section 1. Where an employee is transferred to work
30
where the job rate is lower, as 0 direct result of the introduction of new equipment, or where an employee remains
on a job reduced in value following a technological change, his rate shall not be reduced for a period of two (2) years, including layoff, provided that the employee accepts all opportunities to post to work where the job rate is higher, unless it is unreasonable to expect such employees to apply due to such things as age, health, working conditons, and the employee’s ability to learn the job. Where an employee after a sincere effort is unable to qualify his rate protection shall not de affected. In the application of or adjustment of bracket values, such an employee will not be paid a rate greater th^n the rate paid him at the
time cf the above mentioned posting, except for reasons of a general wage increase after the date of transfer. At the expiring of the two (2) year period set out above, the amount of rate reduction shall be limited to two (2) brackets, at twelve (12) month intervals thereafter, further reductions of a maximum of two (2) brackets shall take place until the lower rate prevails.
(b)	Establishing rates for new jobs; For the purpose of this clause a new job is defined as one which is not presently being performed in the bargaining unit. Additions or changes to the present wage schedule shall be the subject of collective bargaining between the Company and the Union. Any new job rates agreed to shall be retroactive to the date on which the new job or jobs began.
ARTICLE XV — CONTRACTING OUT
Section 1.
The Company prefers to have work done by its employees although at times it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors. The relevant factors which the Company will consider before contracting outsuch work include, adverse effect on employees, availably of required skills, duration and frequency of the job, urgency of the job, cost of equipment in relation to its use and relative cost comparison.
31
Section 2.
When work performed on the premises by outside contractors represents a material change in practice and has adverse effect on present employees of a group affected by such change of practice, the matter may be the subject of a grievance and may be taken to arbitration.
Section 3.
Should an Arbitration Committeebe called on to reviewthe Company's action, it may consider the relevantfactors referred to above, in order to determine the reasonableness of the Company's action with regard to all circumstances. Should the Arbitration Committee find that the Company's action was not reasonable, the Committee will direct that the Company choose between having the work performed by its employees or ceasing such operation, and that the Company shall have a reasonable time to effect the decision.
Section 4.
This provision does not apply to installation and construction work.
Section 5.
The Company may at times experimentto determine if work can be performed effectively and economically by its own employees. When this is done for a trial period it shall not be considered a change of practice should the Company elect to contract out, after the trial period.
ARTICLE XVI — PART-TIME EMPLOYEES Section 1.
Part-time and casual employees will not be used where it is practical to employ full time employees, and, except as otherwise agreed with the Chief Steward, part-time employees will not be employed for the purpose of reducing overtime unless that part-time work is required on a regular basis. Where the work performed by part-time or casual employees can be satisfactorily combined to permit the employment of a full time employee, this will be done provided the employee can satisfactorily perform the work. Part-timeemploees shall work less than twenty-four (24) hours per week
32
Section 2.
The Union may submit and the Company will consider,
alternative means of doing the required work rather than
employ part-time or casual employees and such matters may be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure
ARTICLE XVII — GENERAL
Section 1.
The Company shall supply bullel i boards for the use of the Union, for the posting of noticescf of ^ial Union business, such notices to be approved by the Man gement.
Section 2.
At the option of the Company, hen an employee's personal affairs make it desirable f< him to be relieved cf Company duties, leave of absenc< without pay beyond the regular vacation period to which an jmployee is entitled may be granted for good and sufficient re son. This is providingthat such leave of absence does notintei ?rewith the requirements of the business. It is agreed that k ive of absence shall not interfere with other employees' vac tion choices.
Section 3.
Leave of absence will not be g inted for the purpose of allowing any employee to take anotf r position temporarily, try out new work or venture into busin ss for himself.
Section 4.
Leave of absence, before bei 3 granted, must be requested in writing and approved bv he Company in writing.
Section 5.
Laundry work service for outer w rk clothing shall be maintained at no cost to the employee.
Section 6.
The Company will allow the emf 3yees adequate relief as well as necessary time for changi 3 clothing or equipment necessitated by a change in workir conditions.
Section 7.
The Company and the Union agree to supply a copy of this Agreement to each employee of the Company affected thereby.
Section 8.
The Company agrees to provide a full day's pay to any employee suffering injury or emergency sickness which requires absence during such day for medical or hospital attention. To be eligible for this pay, the employee must reportto his supervisor or to the first aid attendant before leaving the plant.
Section 9.
The Company agrees that any regular employee of the Company summoned to appear for Jury Duty, or who serves on Jury Duty, or is a Subpoenaed Witness, shall be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for jury service and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such days with their regular gang. If the subpoena forwitness isthe result of the employeeworking on anotherjob, this clause will not apply.
Section 10.
Any working conditions now in effect and not specifically covered by this Agreement shall remain in effect unless changed by collective bargaining.
Section 11.
When an employee attends the funeral of immediate relative, he shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for the day of the funeral and two other days either immediately before or after the funeral, provided such payments are made only in respect to absence from work on his regular work days. For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be one of the following: Spouse, Daughter, Son, Mother, Father, Sister, Brother, Mother-in-Law, Father-in-Law, Sister-in-Law, Brother-in-Law, Grandparents and Grandchildren.
In the case of Grandparent-in-Law, Step-Son and StepDaughter, the employee is entitled to the day of the funeral only.
34
Section 12.
(a)	Launderable outer work clothing, oilskin aprons, and oilskin sleevos, specified by the Company as required for work in the plant, will be supplied to employees Such clothing remains the propertyofthe Company and shall not be removed from the Company’s premises except in the regular performance of duty, and must be returned for new issue or upon separation of the employee Clothing not returned when worn out or upon separation will be paid for by the employee
(b)	The Company agrees to supply rubber boots to employees who have completed sixty (60! days worked Worn out boots must be returned to the Company before a new pair will be issued These rubber boots remain the property of the Company and must not be removed from the premises Upon separation any employee hot returning the boots will be responsible to reimburse the Company for the cost of the boots
Any employee with seniority who chooses not to wear the Company-provided rubber boots will be granted a footwear allowance of $35 00 per year
Effective June 1, 1989 the boot allowance shall increase to $40 00 (forty) per year
(c)	The Company agrees to grant all full time hog loading employees with seniority, a heavy quilted vest or liner allowance of $16 00 per year
Section 13.
Tools— Mechanical Tradesmen of the MEchanical Department with seniority, shall upon presentation of required tools broken on the job and worn out required tools, receive replacement tools Such replacements shall be imited to those specified by the Company as being required and shall in addition be limited to a maximum of $70 00 per year, per affected employee
Section 14.
The Chief Shop Steward shall be notified by Management regarding the rate of pay and place of employment of each new employee
35
Section 15.
An employee who finds it necessary to apply for leave of absence as a result of her pregnancy, will upon presentation of a medical certificate denoting fitness for her work, and within three (3) months following delivery be reinstated to her former job or to one of equal rating. It is agreed that employees referred to in this clause shall confine to accumulate seniority while on such leave cf absence.
Section 16.
The Company agrees to allow employees where required, five (5) minutes clean uptime priorto their regularquitting time.
Section 17.
(a)	Weekly indemnity benefits will be paid in accordance with the Terms and Conditions cf the plan as detailed in the employee booklet in the following amounts:
5th and Subsequent
JOB BRACKET	1st4 Weeks	Weeks
0- 4 Bracket........ $285.00/Week	$290.00/Weck
5-12 Bracket........ $300.00/Week	$305.00/Week
13- Bracket & Over... $315.00/Week	$320.00/Week
Service scale for duration of payments is:
3 Months to 18 Months Service............... 4	Weeks
18 Months to 5 Years Service,.................. 16	Weeks
5 Years to 7 Years Service................... 26	Weeks
7 Years to 10 Years Service.................. 34	Weeks
10 Years and Over ............................. 52	Weeks
The Company will pay the first $4.00 of the monthly premium for each employee. The Company and the employee will each pay 50% of the additional amount necessary to maintain the plan. The Company will provide the Union with complete details of the plan.
Benefits will commence on the fourth (4th) day of absence for sickness or non-compensable injury provided the employee obtains medical certificate priorto this day. Inthe event that a medical certificate is not provided by the fourth (4th) day cf absence, benefits will not commence until the certificate is provided.
36
The waiting period is waived after an employee is admitted to hospital for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours New employees have a 90 working day waiting period
In the event an employee has a claim refused by the Workers' Compensation Board for reasons of 'noncompensable claim" he shall become eligible for benefits under the Weekly Indemnity plan This is provided the terms and conditions of the plan are met In addition, the employee must sign a statement to the effect that if benefits are subsequently received from the Workers' Compensation Board for the claim, benefits received under the Weekly Indemnity plan must be repaid to the insurer
Both the Company and the Union agree that in the event a claim refused by the Workers' Compensation Board would appear to be appealable, the employee should be encouraged to proceed with an appeal
(b)	Effective June 1,1987 the amount of group life insurance is increased to $25,000 00
New employees have a 90 working day period before becoming eligible to join the plan
(c)	ALBERTA HEALTH CARE coverage is provided for all eligible employees
New employees have a 90 working day waiting period before becoming eligible for this benefit
(d)	An extended health plan providing coverage to all eligible employees, is to be provided by the Company This plan includes vision care coverage of $75 00 every 24 months
Effective June 1,1989, the vision care allowance shall increase to $100 00 every 24 months
Reimbursement will not be provided for any expense incurred for sun glasses, safety glasses, or for any form of eyeglasses provided for cosmetic or aesthetic purposes
No deductible or co-insurance applies to the vision care items
37
New employees have a 90 working day period before becoming eligible for this benefit.
(e)	The Company shall continueto pay all costs of ALBERTA HEALTH CARE, DENTAL, EXTENDED HEALTH PLAN and life insurance premiums for employees on extended disability or sick leave. Each employee shall be required to provide adequate evidence of such disability or sickness.
(f)	Hearing aid coverage to a maximum of $500.00 per lifetime is to be provided. This coverage is to be detailed the same as in the industry settlement of June 1, 1982.
Section 18.
It is understood that where the word "he" is used in this Agreement it shall also cover female employees.
Section 19.
The Company recognizes the importance and desirability of stabilizing employment on an annual basis and to that end will attempt to give employees fifty-two weeks work per year including the vacation period. It is understood and agreed by the Company and the Union that the foregoing sentence constitutes a statement of policy only and is not intended to and does not impose any contractual obligations whatsoever on the Company.
Section 20.
The Company undertakesto put into place by July 1,1986 a non-contributory plan that pays a monthly pension similar to the amount paid by Fletchers’ (Vancouver).
Section 21 — DENTAL PLAN.
The Company shall provide a prepaid Dental Plan providing for eighty (80) percent coverage under Plan "A" and fifty (50) percent coverage under Plan “BM for all Bargaining Unit employees. The cost of the plan shall be paid by the Company. For all employees hired after the signing of this Agreement, participation in this plan will be a condition of employment after an employee has completed six (6) monthsof service, provided said employees are not receiving coverage under a different Dental Plan.
38
Section 22.
The Company shall remburse the employees for the
renewal of necessary licences required in the performance of their duties.
Section 23.
Management personnel shall not assume duties that are normally performed by hourly paid employees except where such duties are limited to occasional work, negligible in amount, but such management personnel shall in no way be restricted from work which:
(a)	is of a confidential clerical nature.
(b)	is for the purpose of instruction, experimentation, demonstration, investigation, replacement of an employee absent from his job during the day, or coping with an emergency. An emergency herein shall not be construed as including work resulting from additional volume.
(c)	is to overcome production difficulties caused by the absence of an employee. In such cases the Company will advise the Union as to the absence of the employee and will obtain a suitable replacementwithin one-haif (Vj>) day.
Section 24.
Upon the expiration of six (6) months for minor offences, and one (1) year for major offences, from the date of the occurrence upon which a disciplinary entry or adverse reference to an employee's conduct was entered in the employee's personal file, the Company will be precluded from using such entry or reference in any disciplinary action.
Section 25-
The Company agrees to advance to employees awaiting wage loss benefits under the Workers' Compensation Board Act, the amount of benefits due up to the maximum amount of accrued vacation pay due to the employee, This is provided the following:
(a) there is at least two (2) week lapse of time since the benefits became payable.
39
(b)	the employee has completed all necessary forms as required by the Workers' Compensation Board
(c)	the Doctor's Report as required by the Workers Compensation Board has been completed and forwarded to the Board
The amount of funds advanced under this section is strictly an advance to the employee, and the employee must sign a letter to this effect which would also authorize the Company to withhold the Workers' Compensation Board benefit due and apply the funds to repay the advance
Section 26.
In the event of any walkout or stoppage of work, the Union shall not do or permit to be done, anything by any of its members to prevent engineering and maintenance staff from continuing all or any part of their regular duties Furthermore, the Union shall co-operate and assist the Company in taking reasonable precautions to protect perishable products but such assistance shall only extend through such period as the Company does not attempt to restore normal production
ARTICLE XVIII— DURATION OF AGREEMENT Section 1.
This Agreement shall take effect the 11th day of March, 1989, and shall remain in effect until the 10th day of March, 1992, and from year to year thereafter, provided, however that this Agreement may be terminated on the 10th day of March, 1992, or on the 10th day of March any year thereafter by either party on written notice mailed by registered post to the Company or to the Union not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the 10th of March of any year thereafter
Section 2.
During the period of negotiations resulting from any of the provisions above, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect
40
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY
FLETCHER'S FINE FOODS LTD 7550 - 40th Avenue Red Deer, Alberta
DON SIM
LORNE MELDRUM
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION
WAYNE COVEY ALBERT JOHNSON PETER FROST PAUL MIENEMA
WITNESS
CLINT MELLORS Mediator
41
NEW HIRES
Notwithstanding other provisions in this Agreement, the following terms and conditions of employment shall apply to employees hired after March 11th, 1989.
1.	Salary Progression
All employees hired after March 11,1989 shall complete a probationary period of sixty (60)working days and shall during that period receive a rate of pay of eight (8,)dollars per hour plus any applicable premiums.
An employee will progress from the start to the base rate according to the following schedule:
—	March 11, 1989: $8.00 per hour
—	After one year:	25% of the differential between the start
and the base rate
—	After two years:	50% of the differential between the start
and the base rate
—	After three years: 75% of the differential between the start
and the base rate
—	After four years: The base rate applies. The bracket
system for new employees will apply in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
2.	Fringe Benefits for New Hires
"Fringe Benefits" is defined as those benefits for which employees are eligible which includes Alberta Health Care, the weekly indemnity plan, group life insurance, extended health plan, hearing aid coverage, dental plan, and long term disability; as referred in this Collective Agreement.
(i)	Alberta Health Care shall be fully paid by Company after ninety (90) working days.
(ii)	Fringe Benefits other than Alberta Health Care and the dental plan — employees are eligible after 90 working days (from eligibility date to 1 year — 100% employee paid).
42
(iii)	Dental Plan — employees are eligible after 6 months
service (from eligibility date to 1 year - 100%
employee paid).
(iv)	Long Term Disability — employees are eligible after one year of service.
Thereafter Fringe Benefits for II, III, IV as per schedule below:
a)	After 1 year service, 25% Company paid
b)	After 2 years service 50% Company paid
c)	After 3 years service 75% Company paid
d)	After 4 years service 100% Company paid
43
WAGE SCHEDULE
	June 1	Mar. 11,	Mar. 11,
	1988	1989	1990
Starting rate			 $ 9.77	$	$
After 6 months 			 10.41		
After 12 months 			 11.07	11.22	
After 16 months 			 11.72	11.87	
After 20 months 			 12.37	12.52	
After 24 months 			 13.00	13.15	
Bracket 0 			 13.00	13.15	13.30
Bracketl 			 13.08	13.23	13.38
Bracket 2 		13,16	13.31	13.46
Bracket3 		13.24	13.39	13.54
Bracket 4			 13.32	13.47	13.62
Bracket 5			 13.40	13.55	13.70
Bracket 6 			 13.48	13.63	13.78
Bracket 7 			 13.56	13.71	13.86
Bracket8 			 13.64	13.79	13.94
Bracket 9			 13.72	13.87	14,02
Bracket 10			 13.80	13.95	14.10
Bracket 11 			 13.88	14.03	14.18
Bracket 12			 13.96	14.11	14.26
Bracket 14			 14.12	14.27	14.42
Bracket 15			 14.20	14.35	14.50
Bracket 31 			 15.48	15.63	15.78
Bracket 33			 15.64	15.79	15.94
Bracket 34			 15.72	15.87	16.02
Bracket 36			 15.88	16.03	16.18
Bracket 38			 16.04	16.19	16.34
Bracket 40			 16.20	16.35	16.50
Effective March 11, 1991, those employees on the company payroll as of date of ratification shall be entitled to a one-time lump payment of $400.00.
44
JOB GRADES:
Gang Leader — twenty cents ($.20) above the highest job bracket in his department. Incases of vacancy, the gang leader
will be an appointed position mutually agreeable to management and the Union. Said employee shall be allowed three (3) months to decide if he wishes to perform said job. If not, the employee shall report to his former position.
The First Aid Attendant holding a Class B Certificate shall receive a premium of thirty (30)cents per hour over his applicable rate, and the First Aid Attendant holding a Class C Certificate shall receive a premium of twenty-five (25) cents per hour over his applicable rate.
Letter of Understanding
LONG TERM DISABILITY
Effective June 1,1983 the Company will arrangeto have an insurance carrier provide a LongTerm Disability Planwhich will include the following provisions:
—	Full time employees actively at work on the effective date are eligible for the Plan on attainment of one year's seniority. Employees absent from work on the date they would otherwise have been eligible must return to work and satisfactorily complete two months' full time work to be eligible.
—	Long Term Disability benefits will be payable where an employee is unable to perform any employment for remuneration or profit solely by reason of total disability through sickness or accident. The sole determination of cases qualifying for benefits will be made by the insurance company based upon continuing medical evidence cf such disability as it considers satisfactory. To qualify any case involving alcohol or drug related conditions will require active supervision by and continuing treatment from a rehabilitation centre ora provincially designated institution. Any case involving mental illness will require continued treatment under an approved specialist and will only be
45
paid in cases of severe conditions involving personality disorganization (psychotic conditions). Any employee in receipt of Long Term Disability benefits will not receive any credited service during the period of times that he receives such benefits.
The amount of benefit will be $1,100.00 per month for new claims arising after July 1, 1986, less any benefit for which the employee is eligible underthe Canada or Quebec Pension Plan Primary Disability Benefit, Workers' Compensation or other governmentor government-sponsored plan, excluding any pre-existing disability benefit. The Employee will be presumed eligible for such government benefits until satisfactory evidence is presented that his application for them has been denied. Prior to July 1T1986 the amount of this benefit was $1,000.00 per month.
The benefit will commence after the employee has been absent d ue to the disability for one year or after his sickness and accident pay entitlement has expired, whichever is earlier, and will be payable, until recovery, actual retirement date, normal retirement date, or death, whichever comes first.
Should an employee return to work after collecting Long Term Disability benefits and subsequently again cease work as a result of the same or a related disability, the benefit will recommence without a waiting period provided the disability recurred within a year of the employee returning to work, otherwise the employee will be subject to the normal waiting period before the benefit commences.
No benefit will be paid to an employee under the Company's Sickness and Accident Plan where the employee is entitled to receive benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan and no employee shall receive a benefit under the Long Term Disability Plan while he is receiving benefits under the Company's Sickness and Accident Plan.
46
—	Where an employee returns to work under an approved rehabilitation program of up to 24 months, the benefit will be reduced by 50% of any earnings, provided the total gross income from all sources does not exceed 90% of the predisability normal gross wages.
—	No benefits will be paid for intentionally self-inflicted injuries, or for disabilities arising from a declared or undeclared act of war, participation in a riot of insurrection, employment with another employer, or commission of a felony.
—	Where an employee is absent from work and receiving Long Term Disability benefits for a period of three consecutive years or longer then as of the end of the third year his seniority and employment with the Company shall be deemed broken and thereafter there shall be no obligation on the part of the Company to rehire him. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision as to a period of three or more consecutive years, if an employee returns to work after collecting Long Term Disability benefits and if within one year thereafter he again ceases work as the result of the same or a related disability and receives Long Term Disability benefits, then such further period of absence from work while receiving Long Term Disability benefits shall be deemed to be consecutive with the immediate previous absence and such further period of absence shall betaken into account and added onto the previous absence in determining whether the employee has been absent from work and received Long Term Disability benefits for a period of three consecutive years or longer.
47
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
PART-TIME WORKERS
The Company may employ part-time workers, if agreed to by the Union, for work performed on calendar Saturday, or Sundays under the following conditions:
1.	Full time employees with seniority who are on lay-off status shall be called in order of seniority and given the option of working or not at the part-time rate as detailed in (4) below, provided they are qualified to perform the work to be done.
2.	If the Company fails to secure workers as indicated in (1) above, they may hire new employees.
3.	The Company shall notify the Union prior to any work performed on a calendar Saturday or Sunday by parttime workers, and notify the Union in writing for the reasons therefore.
4.	The rate of pay for part-time workers who perform work on a calendar Saturday or Sunday shall be $9.77 per hour.
In respect to this memorandum, the Union agrees lo cooperate with the Company, provided the conditions hereof are met, and that the request for the Saturday or Sunday work can be reasonably justified.
It is also further understood that full time employees, not on lay-off, and provided the weekly guarantee for them has been met, have no seniority rights in respectto working any Saturday or Sunday hours. In the event they wish to work, they have the option to do so at the part-time rate as detailed herein. If the Company specifically requests full time employees to work on weekends, they will be paid the applicable overtime rate.
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
If an employee works less than one-half their regular shift the day before or the day after a statutory holiday and goes home sick, the following procedure will take place:
1.	The employee must inform the supervisor of the sickness and report to the plant nurse.
2.	If, in the nurse's opinion, the employee is sick, the employee will be allowed to go home.
3.	If, in the nurse's opinion, the employee may not be sick, the plant manager or his designate and the shop steward will be contacted. If collectively there is still a doubt about the employee's sickness, the said employee will be asked to go to a doctor to obtain a certificate to verify his illness.
49
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
1989 VACATIONS
The Company agrees that all employees as of Date of Ratification will be allowed to take their total vacation entitlement for the calendar year 1989. The Company also agrees that only the accrued vacation pay for 1989 vacation entitlement, excluding period from August 1, 1988 to Date of Ratification will be paid immediately before each individual's vacation.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CONTINENTAL WORK WEEK
The Company and the Union agree that the continental work week referred to in the memorandum of agreement is for all new employees hired after Date of Ratification in the shipping and maintenance department.
Continental work week means an employee may work any 5 consecutive days with 2 consecutive days off.
50
JOB RATES
Dr^rkpt
Leaf Lard Scrapper................................. 2
Leaf Lard Puller.................................. g
Driver............................................ -j
Electrical Stunner ................................ 5
Shackler .......................................... 7
Sticker........................................... 15
Tank and Dehairing Machine Operator................ 8
Gam Cord Cutter.................................... 0
Insert Gambrel and Hang ........................... 3
Feed Line and Shave................................ 0
Carcass Shaver Hams............................... 7
Carcass Shaver Balance............................ 6
Open Brisket ...................................... 0
Tongue Remover.................................... 11
Tongue Remover and Break Heads.................... 11
Break Heads ....................................... 9
Bung Dropper.,...................................  12
Bunger and Aitch Bone Opener...................... 10
Open Aitch Bone arid Bellies....................... 7
Face Hams.......................................... 3
Gutter............................................ 11
Pop Kidney. Pull Pleura. Mark Brisket
and Check Shave.................................. 3
Sawyer ........................................... 11
reed Held Line .................................... 0
rake Off Held Line................................. 0
Held Rail (Complete) .............................. g
Frim Stick Holes .................................. 2
Skin Heads......................................... 6
'lace Hogs in Cooler............................... 2
51
JOB RATES (continued)
JOB	Bracket
Head Boning ......................................... 6
Save Offal and Glands................................ 4
Save Chitterlings.................................... 2
Roller Man .......................................... 2
Sharpies ............................................ 8
Basement............................................. 4
Floor and Clean-up................................... 0
Scaler .............................................. 5
Stamper.............................................. 2
Fancy Meats:
Trimmer............................................ 4
Pack and Scale..................................... 4
Freezer Man........................................ 4
Casing Room
Casing Puller...................................... 4
Machine Operator................................... 5
Packer and Salter.................................. 1
(Help Qualified)
Open Stomachs...................................... 2
Flush Stomachs.,................................... 2
Placing Viscera for Pullers ....................... 2
Pork Cut
These are jobs to be considered as labour jobs, but will not be posted individually.
Push Hogs.......................................... 0
Hog Drop .......................................... 0
Roller Man	0
Guide Hogs' ’ ^ ‘‘‘	‘‘' t'' ’ ^	‘ ‘	0
Turn Loins Around ................................. 0
Feed Bellie Skinner................................ 0
Feed Loin Fat Skinner	0
Box Makers ..............! o
52
JOB RATES (continued)
JOB	Bracket
Make Combos............................................0
Clean Floor............................................0
P.hpr.k fnr Rnnes in Pinnins ..........................0
Flatten Bellies in Combos..............................0
Stamp Loin.............................................0
Push Fat Tubs..........................................0
Feed Deboner...........................................0
Remove Chime Bone......................................0
Any Other Unskilled Work Not Shown.....................0
Help Qualified
(Jobs below not posted separately)
Save & Pack Back	Skins ..............................t
Save & Pack Bellie	Skins..............................1
Pack Bellie Trim ......................................1
Pack Loins.............................................1
Pack Tenderloins....................................   1
Pack Side Ribs.........................................1
Pack Backribs .........................................1
Pack Jowls ............................................1
Pack Back Fat..........................................1
Strapper Operators ...................................1
Palletizer ............................................1
All Other Packing Jobs ............................... 1
String Tie Specialty Backs.............................1
Check Shave............................................3
Cut Off Ham or Shoulder — Dunseth Knife ...............6
Cut Off Hind Foot......................................2
Band Saw Operator ....................................11
Neckbone Lifter.......................................11
Cut Off Jowls..........................................3
Picnic or Ham Skinning Machine.........................3
Trim Picnic ...........................................5
Butt Puller ...........................................8
53
JOB RATES (continued)
JOB	Bracket
Cut Off Tails............................................4
Wizzard Knives...........................................3
Dunseth Knife (middles)................................: 9
Ham Boner...............................................11
Loin Puller .............................................8
Trims Loins (include Special Trirr Loins)................9
Trim Jowls...............................................2
Pork Boners (Loin Butt Picnic)..........................11
Rib Bellies ............................................11
Picnic Deboner Operator..................................4
Trim Butts...............................................9
CVP Machines.............................................2
Late Pack Off............................................2
Special Orders ..........................................8
Combo Trucker/Scaler.....................................2
Remove Tenderloin........................................3
Cut and Grade Specialty Backs............................4
Fresh Sausage
Grinding. Mixing & Formulating..........................5
Stutter.................................................2
Help Qualified .........................................1
Wrap & Pack, Pack & Scale (not posted individually)
Maintenance
Welder — Journeyman, Certified Ticket..................36
Electrician — Journeyman, Certified Ticket .............40
3rd Class Steam and Refrigeration
Certified Ticket...................................34
4th Class Steam and Refrigeration
Certified Ticket.......	 31
Maintenance Helper.......................................5
54
JOB RATES (continued)
JOB	Bracket
Millwright— First Class..............................38
Millwright— Second Class.............................33
Tin Smith ...........................................34
Miscellaneous
Knife sharpener...................................... 5
Laundry.............................................. 5
Janitory............................................. 1
Receiver............................................. 5
Truck Driver........................................ 12
Shippers ............................................ 7
Freezer Man, Deep Reach, Forklift Operator .......... 5
Night Clean Up....................................... 4
Load Trucks.......................................... 3
Parts Person ........................................ 4
55