t
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
FLETCHER'S FINE FOODS LTD.
7550 - 40th Avenue Red Deer, Alberta
AND
UNITED FOOD AND
COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
A.F.L. - C.I.O. - C.L.C.
LOCAL 1118P-2
203 - 3639 27th Street N.E., Calgary, Alberta
JUNE I, 1984 — JUNE 1, 1986

s'
Us
>
Article
I
li
III
IV V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV XV
XVI
XVII
XVIII
X4X-
INDEX
I'ngo
General ...............................   1
Bargaining Agency .................. 1
Management .............................  3
Gender ................................. il	.—
Wages ................................    4
Thirty-seven Hour Guarantee ............ (I	■—■	/
Hours of Work and Overtime .............. H
Statutory Holidays ..................... 13	—	/	*/
Seniority ............................   10
Vacations .............................. 21	— 7
Grievance Procedure .................... 20	*7
Safety and Health .....................  28
Separation Allowance .................. 2!)	—■	^	'
Work Methods ....................... 32	^
Contracting Out .....................    33	-	T>	's
Part-Time liiuploytees ................  31	"	'	^
Irtarve—of—Alvrenees—J.i.L N.L. f\ fl-L.	35	—	^	£'”
•GttiW(tI/v!t/A./J.7./-t.*'..../(/...jjir.KJ.Ax)*.	7
—Ulltn(i.7n nf—Afy.-aoomul. ......	-44-‘
Bracket Values and Labour Kates
- Appendix TP/v..-..........-.... W o '
—App*ndiv...G-..............-.... VirJ> 2-
7'ij A £r A'/» i’ 5	-.......' "
'"Letters of Understanding
Hung—Term-Disability'	4IP
Part-Time Workers ..................  •M*"	5	7
Pension—Plan—  --------.rtf.-:----'.-IT— 53-
Knife ” Sbarpl'llttlg ~ l.T.trTL:.'.". TV-:~ (1+-*
--------------**■	f	9
____- > ~)~<J I? /tlK ?	,•	7
-	^ n </ >v (!	■ ~~~
0 A> /d cy/.rt V/U-1' < ■■ ^ //>(“■ * A' ( - /I (fr '^,y Cs ___________________________(-
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made ami concluded at Red Ucer, Alberta, this dill (lay o( May, A.D. 11)85.
UETWEEN:
•FLETCI I ER’S FINE FOODS DTI)., 7,5.50 40111 Avenue, Hay; 5011, Red Deer, Alberta (hereinafter referred to as line "Company")
OF THE FIRST TART
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, INTERNATIONAL UNION, A.E.L. - C.I.O. - C.L.C., LOCAL 1118R-2 2():i - rifif?!) 27th Street N.E., Calgary, Alberta (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
( OF THE SECOND I’ART
WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE I — GENERAL One of tire main purposes of this Agreement is to maintain in full force and ericet a harmonious relationship between the Management and the Employees. No business ran progress or prosper unless a mntnal feeling of icspect and eonbdenre exists between the Management and the Organization.
ARTICLE II — HARGAININU AGENCY Section 1. The Company or anyone authorized lo net for it recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency ns certified
1
1 ' ' U
(j
by tlm Labour Relations Hoard lor the i'rovincc ol Alberta, for its employees covered by this Agreement and hereby consents and agrees to negotiate with the Union, or any Committee thereof in any and all matters affecting tbe relationship between the said employer and employees set forth in this Agreement, who arc members of the Union and who become members of the Union, which is chartered by the United Food and Commercial Wotkers, International Union, A.F.L, -C.I.O. - C.L.C., Local 1118P-2, looking towards a peaceful and amicable settlement of any differences that may arise between the Company and the Union,
_ Section 2.	(a) The Company agrees to retain
in its employ, within the bargaining unit as outlined in Section 1, Article II, of this Agreement, only members of the "Union in good standing.
Tbe Company shall be free to hire new employees who arc not members of the Union, provided said non-members, whether part time or lull lime employees, shall be eligible for membership in the Union, and shall make application within ten (10) days after employment and become members within thirty (30) working days.
(b)	The Company agrees to provide each new employee at the time of employment with a form letter outlining to the new employee his or her responsibility in regard to Union Membership, and tu provide the Union in writing with (lie name and address of each employee to whom they have presented the form letter, along with the employee's date of hire, the contents of the letter to be such that it is acceptable to the Company. The Company fur-
2
llicr agrees to provide the Chief Stewanl of tin; Union, onto a month, witli a list containing names of all employee!) wlio have terminated tlieir employment during Hie previous month.
Section 3. (a) The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee upon proper authorization from the employee alteeteil, BUch lines, assessments and initiation fees as ate authorized by regular and proper vole of the membership of the Union. Tlic regular monthly dues will be deducted from each bi-weekly pay cheque, and the amount of each deduction will lie arrived at hy annualizing the deductions and dividing by twenty-six (20).
(h) The Company will procure from such new and probationary employees the necessary membership applications and membership in the Union shall be granted within tlic above mentioned thirty day period,
(c)	Monies deducted during any month shall he forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than tlic fifteenth (15th) day of the month for which dues are deducted and accompanied by a printed statement of the names of the employees for whom tlic deductions were made.
ARTICLE III — MANAGEMENT The management of (he plant and direction of tlic working forces including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just cause, and the methods, processes and means of production or handling arc vested exclusively in the Company, provided that this will not he used for the purpose of discrimination against any employee or the Union, or to avoid any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV — UJINDKE
Except where specifically n I ;i t r <1 to llir contrary, provisions of this Agreement .shall apply to .ail employees in tlie bargaining unit.
ARTICLE V — WAGES
Section 1,
No hieicase for duration of agreement.
Section *2. (a) Employers hired prior to dale of ratification whose schedule calls for work on calendar Saturdays and Sundays or Statutory Holidays mentioned in tliis agreement sliall lie paid one and one-half (1%) times their regular rale for all scheduled hours al regular miles for the purpose of the guarantee. Such premiums sliall not h.c considered as part of lire employee's basic rale.
fii) Employees hired subsequent to date of ratification whose schedule calls for work on their sixtli (Dill) and seventh 17th) consrrulivc day of work or statutory holidays mentioned in this agreement sliall lie paid one and one-half (I-'/•) times their regular rate (or all scheduled hours at regidar rates for the purpose of the guarantee, Such mcmimns shall not hr coo-sidured as part of the employee's basic rale.
Section 2. (hi The increments between hi nr-krts will remain at right (HI cents lor 11*'’ duration of this contract.
Section 3. When a qualified employee is required temporarily to (ill a higher rated job, lie shall receive the higher rate while doing so, hut if required temporarily to till a lower rated job he shall receive his higher rale. A qualified employee working fifty percent or more of Ids time on the highest rated job shall be paid that rate.
4
For the purposes of this section, the G0% calculated is done on a daily basis. I/ a statutory holiday falls at the end of or in the middle of a period'when an employee is temporarily performing a higher rated job, the employee will be paid for (he statutory holiday at the higher rated job.
Section 4. (a) Employees shall receive the applicable job rates provided [or in the wage schedule for the job or jobs they perform when they become qualified.
(b)	The word ‘qualified’ as used in this Agreement shall he interpreted to mean ability to regularly perform the job without instruction or assistance. Except by agreement with the Union, the period of qualifying shall riot exceed six (0) weeks, after which the rate shall be paid.
(c)	Instruction or assistance in training any employee may be given by a supervisory officer of the Company or by an employee designated by the Plant Superintendent or Department Supervisor.
Section 5. (a) If due to lack of work, an employee is transferred for a period of less than twelve (12) weeks to work where the job rate is lower, he shall retain his regular job rate while so doing. At the expiration of twelve (12) weeks the lower job rate shall prevail. The twelve week period shall be extended one 0) day for cacli day the employee is required to return temporarily to his previous higher rated work. However, should the employee be returned temporarily to his former job for a period of three (3) consecutive weeks or more, the twelve fl2) week period will recommence from the day he/shc again returns to a lower rated job.
ft
(10 If an employee is transferred to a lower rated job on a job posting or at the employee's request, then the lower rate of pay shall apply immediately.
Section 0 (a) An otT shift premium of thirly-(ivc cents (HD) per hour will be. paid for all hours worked between six p.m. (0) and six a.m. (0).
(|j) An employee whose schedule calls for work to commence at any lime oilier than between C;(X) a.m. and 10:00 a.m. inclusive, shall receive an oil shift premium of thirty-live cents (351 per hour for all hours worked between 4:00 p.m. aud 0:00 a.m.
Section 7. The Company shall show on (lie pay envelope of each employee the hours worked regularly, those at time and one-half and those at double time, the employee's rate and total monies earned for cacli pay period along with a complete list of all deductions made by the Company.
Section 8, An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours in the. scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if, as a result of such injury he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department; hut, if such is not possible, then by a Company representative, The Company agrees to provide transportation for medical treatment to employees as a result of a serious accident, 'flic Company agrees that the intent of this clause would mean a ride to ^_nnd from the hospital, (jhv-tha-crvenl—the—em-’’’’ployae--eireosoH-to-go—directly ,'homc"'frorit'*"t1ttr ■lioGpital_,;tha...Company- agrees •* to" reimburse, — upon-.prcKcntaliou.of.n vali,ij,.i cccipl. an, amount — up to Jhii-£a£L.to-tranupQi kj.iu;»cinployee 'to'tiio—a
^iul~ •	? JUJLV
Co>dA<c-t^'
Section 9. Attached to this Agreement shall lie a wage schedule covering all employees in the bargaining unit.
Section 10, Employees writhing in the plant periorming a job that requires them to work lor more than one (1) continuous hour in temperatures below 2 degrees Celsius shall receive a premium of twenty-live cents (26c.) per hour for all hours so worked.
ARTICLE VI — THIRTY-SEVEN HOUR GUARANTEE ?
The Company agrees to guarantee a minimum of tliit ty-seven (37) hours per week or pay in lieu of work exclusive of overtime and night shift premium, except as herein provided.
Section 1. An employee who is absent from work for all personal reasons on any day that In’s gang works, shall have his guarantee for tlic week colicerncd reduced by the number of hours missed by such absence.
Section 2. An employee who is excused front work for part of a day, lor any personal reason, shall have his guarantee reduced for the week concerned by the number of hours of work which he missed by such absence.
Section 3, An employee who starts alter the first of the payroll week shall he guaranteed for such starting week, that fraction of the guarantee which the number of horns remaining cif the payroll week is of forty hours.
Section i. Employees with seniority on layoff notice shall lie entitled to their guniantred payment for the week in which notice is given. Should notico extend into subsequent week, then
the employee shall lie entitled to their guaram teed hours of pay for each day of their notice
period.	i
Section G. When it is apparent that a gang is going to work less than the guaranteed hours in any one week, it is permissible to use all ol the gang on other work in order to avoid the guaranteed time penalty, reasonable consideration being given to change in working conditions, ability and seniority.
Section G. 'flic guarantee shall be the same in the holiday weeks as all others, Pay received for any public holidays or in the case of oil shift days in lieu of shall be considered as earnings for the purpose of calculating the guarantee, unless such pay is for hours which fall outside an employee's schedule.
Section 7. In order to meet the demands cf the business the Company may hire part-time workers excluded from the provisions of this Article for work of twenty-four (21) hours or less in a payroll week, provided the Union is notified when the employees arc hired, Such part-time workers will lie the first employees subject to layoff in the event of a lay oil occurring in the plant.
ARTICLE VII — IIOUIIS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 1, (a) The normal work week for employees hired prior to date of ratification shall be eight (8) hours nor day, forty (40)hours per week, Monday through Friday.
(b) The, normal work week for employees hii'cd niter date of ratification shall he eight (8) hours per day, forty (40) hours, per week.
a
(c! The schedule ot hours is lo lie posted on llie bulletin board. Tlui Company reserves I lie right lo schedule nil hours lint agrees lo discuss, changes lo the schedule with the Union,
Section 2. The schedule of hours referred to in Section 1 shall he regular schedules providing for regular steady sliiits, not swing shifts. Swing shifts shall apply only by a mutual agreement with the Union Committee and the Management.
Section 3. In compliance with Section 2 it is understood and agreed by both parties to this Agreement that the creation of steady shifts will not interfere with the efficiency of department or plant operations.
Section 4.	(a) All time worked before or
after the above schedule of hours shall he paid for at one and onc-lialf (b'/i) limes the employee’s regular rate of pay. If by necessity an hourly rated employee is required to work in excess of II continuous hours, lie shall be paid double time for such additional hours.
(b)	Tlic Company and the Union recognize that it may be necessary for lemployees In work in excess1 of their regular number of hours due to fluctuating live stock ircrlr.ipts and variable volume, hut the Company will limil hours of work beyond such regular number of hours to what is reasonable.
The method 1o be used In scleel employees to work any necessary overtime will be by department on a voluntary basis by seniority, bill in the event the number required is not obtained by this method it will lie mandatory for employees in tlie reverse of seniority order.
0
(c) When overtime is necessary, the Union Steward of the department concerned sliall 1>e notified. The employee, posted on the job for which overtime is required shall have (lie first option of working the overtime. In the event this employee docs not wish to work the overtime, the supervisor will then canvass the other employees within the department as to their individual wishes. This canvass is to he conducted in the older of senior qualified person, to junior qualified person.
If any qualified person is inadvertently missed in this rotation, he shall he given (lie first opportunity the next time overtime is required in tlie department.
Where overtime on off shills is required, (lie company shall discuss the matter with the available Shop Steward and make the call-ins.
Section 6.	(a) Overtime rales of one anti
one-half UVs) limes the regular hourly rates shall he paid for any time worked in excess of the scheduled hours as agreed to in this Article, tin to three (fU hour* in any one day and double time thereafter.
'(It) For employees hired prior to dale id ratification, double the regular iiouily rales shall he paid to	all employees for	work	performed on
Sunday,	except where tlie	work	rrgularly	falls
on Sunday, in which tatter rase tlie employee shall he paid double tlie regular hourly rate if lie works on his day oft in lieu of Sunday,
fcl For employees hired prior to date of ratification,	one and one-half	(I'/r)	times the	employees'	regular rale shall	lie paid for the	first
four (t) hours of work performed on a Saturday and double time thereafter.
10
(il) For employees hired Riilis'wjuciit lo date of rulification double the regular hourly rates fihall he paid to all 'employees for work performed on the seventh 17th) consecutive day of their work schedulin'.
(c)	. For ^employees hired subsequent to date of ratification onp and one-half (1/a) times the regular hourly rates shall he paid to all employees for the first four ('!) hours of work performed on their sixth (Oth) consccutivb day of their work schedule and double time tlrcre-a flier.
ff) Part-time employees shall receive a premium of 20c. per hour for hours worked at regular rates on calendar Saurdays and a premium of 30c. per hour for hours worked at regular rates on calendar Sundays.
Section G. Employees when called lor work shall be guaranteed four (4) hours! paiy lor that day at his regular job rale. Under this provision workers shall not leave of their own accord when work is available. For work performed on the sixth or seventh consecutive day of work or on a sialtifory holiday, the cmployccsi shah reocivc the guaranteed lour (4) hours yay at the applicable rate,
Section 7. Any hourly rated employee who, after leaving the Company’s premises, is. specially called in at any time outside Ids nor-trial working hours shall be through when the emergency is over, hut shall nevertheless be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the applicable overtime rates,
Section 8, Employees shall not be required, except in cases of emergency, to work more than five (5) hours without the first meal period and five (5) hours without the second meal period. The second meal period shall be
11
one-half (Va) hour nil Company lime soul the meal shall be supplied free of charge by the Company. If due 10 circumstances the Company docs not provide a meal a cash equivalent will be added to his gross earnings for that fiscal week, The truck drivers shall provide a voucher for reimbursement piiiqsoses, The meal allowance referred tu will be Five (C) Dollars.
Section 0. Employers required lo wutk more than five (5) hours without a meal period shall he compensated at otic and one-half (Id/-) times the regular hourly rale for all time, worked in excess of five (6) hours until a meal period is granted. Employees engaged in continuous shift operations shall he exempt from this clause, but shall be entitled to a lunch period of thirty (30) minutes on Company time. In the event of an earlier than normal start the Company shall have the right to change the time of the meal period in order to avoid the double penally,
Section 10, (a) Continuous shift operations shall he given forty-eight (13) hours notice of change of shifts except in an emergency. Employees who because of an emergency are required to change shifts shall lie paid the applicable overtime rate until the expiration of the <18 hour notice,
(b) Single shift employees shall lie given twenty-four (24) hours notice of change of shift except in an emergency. Employees who because of an emergency are required to change .■shifts shall he paid the applicable overtime rates until the expiration of the twenty-four (24) hours.
Section 11, (a) The Company shall provide a qualified operator for the sharpening of tools,
12
knives, elc. This opcralor will lie responsible lor all sharpening ol this equipment in the plant.
(Ii) The Company shall furnish all knives, scabbards, steels, whetstones, triers and hooks which it considers necessary lor the performance ol the work by the employees and shall establish regulations in respect thereto. The Company agrees to inaintain its present ptac-tirc of furnishing heavy tools. All tools furnished shall remain Company property.
' ^
Section 12. A fifteen minute (15) rest period will he Riven twice each shift, midway before I tin eh and midway after lunch provided that cacli work period is of not more than two and one-half (1'h) hours. It is aRrecd that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time ofl dnrinR the day. It is mutually agreed that rest periods shall not he abused.
i
Section 13. The Company and the Union agree that in the event of a work sliorlaRc. ways and means will he discussed in an attempt to shorten the working hours of the week, in preference to laying off of employees.
Section 11. If any female employee is engaged or is presently working in the plant they shall receive exactly the same rate of wages as male employees, if they are perfoimiitg the task usually or previously performed by a male employee, providing, however, that the employee is as qualified to do the same work and is physically capable of doing same.
Section IB. When other than emergency overtime is to he worked, every iraxnnnblr cllort will be made to rchirc employees who
13
may be oil layoff status in the department where overtime is to be worked.
Section 1G. ,A holiday shall be an employee's regular shill on a holiday.
Section 17. Whenever an employee performs work outside his regular schedule he need riot be required to take time oil to bring his hours down to the standard working week.
ARTICLE VIII — STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Section 1. 'fen (10) statutory holidays shall be recognized and a regular hourly paid employee, who is riot exempt from the weekly pay guarantee as set out in Section I of Article Vl hereof, and who has earnings on the payroll in the plant week containing the holiday, shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his job rate. If an employee works on any such holiday or in the ease of off-shift the day in lieu of, lie shall receive in addition, pay for hours actually worked on the holiday (or day substituted in the event of tlie holiday falling on Sunday), at two (2) times his job rate.
The statutory holidays referred to herein
arc:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day First Monday in August
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Uoxing Day
Employees absent on the regularly scheduled work days next preceding or next following airy public holiday shall not lie entitled to pay (or sucb_ holiday unless the absentee received permission from the Company to be absent or was absent because of sickness or for other good
14
cause arising from circumstances beyond Ids control. The Company will advise the Union in writing c£ suclt deductions.
Section 2. In the event of a holiday falling on .Sunday it shall he observed on the day substituted by the Dominion Government, If the Dominion or Provincial Governments proclaim some other day to be generally observed hourly rated employees required to work on it shall lor 11 jc_ hours so worked receive llircc (It) times their regular hourly rates provided that if such day Is in substitution for a holiday hereinafter specified, the penalty rate shall not apply to both days. If a paid Statutory Holiday fails on a Saturday, the Friday prior to the Saturday shall be observed as the holiday. If a paid Statutory Holiday (alls on a Sunday, the Monday immediately following the Sunday shall be observed as the holiday, i
Section 3, Any employee having fifteen (15) days accumulated service with the Company, who is laid off prior to a recognized holiday in the same payroll week hi which such holiday occurs shall be entitled to receive pay for sucii holiday.
Section 4, An employee who is absent from work and receiving benefits for reason of sickness, compensable on non-compensablc accident, during the period in which a recognized paid statutory holiday occurs, shall receive the difference between bis compensation or Weekly Indemnity pay and his regular rate of pay with limitation as defined in the Weekly Indemnity Plan.
When a recognized paid statutory holiday falls during the 3 day wailing period for Weekly Indemnity benefits, an employee eligible lor
16
these benefit* shall hr pair! eight (R) hours pay at his regular rate of pay for each such statutory holiday.
Any employee who is no longer eligible for Weekly Indemnity benefit.* and is still disabled shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for any statutory holiday following within three (3) calendar months from the onset of such disability.
Section 6, An employee on leave of absence shall he paid statutory holiday pay yvlini oil her of (he following conditions exist:-.'
(a)	if nil employee works his regularly scheduled work day preceding a paid siatutory holiday and is on leave of absence on the regularly scheduled work day next following that stat. he shall he eligible for payment of slat pay for that siatutory holiday.
fh) if an employee works his last regularly scheduled work day prior to going on leave of absence and, as expected, returns to work on the regularly scheduled work day next following a paid statutory holiday, lie shall he eligible for payment of stat pay for that statutory holiday,
Section 0, H any nf the paid holidays referred to in (Ills Article occur while an employee is on leave of absence to attend Union (unrtinux he shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate.
ARTICLE IX — SENIORITY
Section 1, Seniority shall hr defined as (he length of an employee'* scrvlrc within the bargaining unit, calculated a* the elapsed time from llic day he was first employed, unless his
10
seniority was broken, in which event Buell calculation shall be Iroin the date lie returned to work following the last break in iris seniority,
Section 2, Employees shall not acquire any seniority rights until they have .accumulated sixty (00) clays worked at which time they arc entitled to plant seniority from the original day of employment. Provided the sixty (00) days
worked have been accumulated 'within 'six (0) calendar months.
Section 3, Seniority lists shall he revised and brought up-to-date every two (2) mouths and the Company shall supply sufficient copies to the Union.
Section 4,	(a) In the bargaining unit the
filling of vacancies shall be based on ability and seniority, Ability being sufficient alter a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. A, reasonable trial shall-not exceed Six (0) weeks,
(b)	Vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be posted for five (5) working days to give employees with seniority ample time to apply. In the case that no application is received for any posting, the vacancy shall he filled by the junior qualified employee available until the junior employee in the plant is trained for the job posting. Transfers to jobs will be made within ten (10) working days from the date the posting was awarded with the provision that wherever this proves impossible, suitable arrangements will lie arrived at after consultation with the Union, An employee who was absent when a vacancy is filled shall receive equal consideration provided the department steward notifies the Company in writing that an employee in his department wishes to apply for the vacancy. There shall lie no more than two (2) job postings per employee per year,
1/
Section 0. Seniority scivico records nluill lie considered broken! all rights forfeited mid there shall lie no obligation to rehire when an employee :
(al Voluntarily leaves the service of the bnr-paiiling unit, tile Company, or is discharged lor just cause,
(Ij) After being laid off by the Company, fails to report lor work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The, present method of contact, by telephone, and registered Idler to the employee at the last known address shall constitute a reasonable effort on the part of the. Company', and if within two (2) working days after receipt of such notice, the employee fails to report for duty, or advise the Company that lie will report within five (fi) wen king days, (he Company shall he entitled to assume that the said employee left the Company service voluntarily.
(c)	Has been laid off for a period longer than the time allowed in the following schedule:
Length of Seniority at Date of Separation
Less than one year One year and over
Length of
Allowable Time Off Payroll
Six Months Two years maximum
Section 6, Absence from work because of sickness, accident, or leave of absence, shall not break continuity of seniority rights and an employee shall return to the position held prior to tlie absence or to one of equal rating provided lie is able to perform the work that is available within the customary trial period of not more than six (0) weeks.
18
Section 7. In (lie ease of reduction in the winking lurcc the order of layoff shall he as follows:
(a)	Probationary employers, i.e,, those with less than sixty (GO) days worked,
(b)	Those with plant seniority.
In the latter ease, seniority shall he the determining factor provided the senior operator, alter a reasonable time to <|iialify, is capable of doing the woik performed by an employee with less seniority except where immediate essential qualifications arc necessary lor the efficient operation of the plant. In such eases the Company will discuss the matter with the Union.
Section 8. (a) In eases of increases in the working forces, rchiiing shall he in the icvcrsc order to that of layofls, The Company shall advise the Union when a layoff is about to take place and shall give the Union n list cf employees to lie laid off or rehired. In cases where it is necessary to secure workers in less lime than the required notice, the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee may recall the next senior employee ami so on down the list until the vacancies are filled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time, he shall he given the work lor which the next senior employee was recalled.
(h) In case cf layoff, other than in the event of emergencies herein referred to, employees shall he given one (1) working day's notice lor every completed six IG) months seniority, with a minimum notice of two (2) working days. In the ease of an emergency due to cause* beyond the Company's control which
10
results in the closing o[ a part or wliolc of the plant, employees shall be given one (1) calendar day's notice for every completed six (SI mouths' seniority with a maximum notice of five (5) working days' notice and with a minimum notice of two (2) working days but sucll two days shall lie exclusive of Saturday and Sunday. If the Company determines that additional work, not to exceed three (3) days is available at the time any layoff is to become effective then the notice shall lie deemed to be extended Lor the period represented by such additional days of work.
(c) Employees with seniority may be temporarily recalled for ten (10) working days or less, as casual help with no layoff notice given, provided that this shall not be used as discrimination to any employee, and provided that the employees and the Union are informed -that such
work is of a temporary nature.
Section 9. When it is necessary to permanently transfer employees to lower rated jobs because of a .shortage (,f work, the employees with tlic lowest scuiioily will he, required to take the transfer. In flic case of teinporar lranstors the basis shall he that of the avail ablet junior qualified employee,
Section 10. In cases of gang reduction or increases, an employee may elect to take a layoff or continue to be laid off if it is mutually agreed that tlic worlc which is available could prove detrimental to the health of tlic employee,
Section 11, Employees, not fo exceed two, (2), who arc appointed to or elected to do business lor the Union shall be granted leave ofabscncc without pay to attend to such busincs'S. Such omployecs shall conlincc to accumulate seniority for tlic period covered by Litis Agreement, aid
20
upon1 giving llic Company one week’s notice,’ in writing of tlicir intention to return to work, shall he reinstated in the job hold prior to (lie leave of absence or its equivalent, at th.c same rate of pay provided they arc capabllc. of doing tire job within the usual qualifying period.
Section 12. Employees shall notify lli'c Company at once of all changes of address and telephone numbers, temporary or permanent. Failure of the employee to do so will relieve the Company of any responsibilities they may have under this Agreement,
Section 13. Upon an employee accepting promotion outside the bargaining unit, the Company will inform the Chief Steward of the Union by letter as to the date of acceptance. Said employee shall be allowed six (0) months in which to prove himself capable of filling the position concerned, if such employee docs not qualify within such time, lie shall reporl to his former position without loss of seniority. I’rn-vided that if before the expiry of six ((1) months, lie may he. required to revert to his former position bcfoiju 'such time without predudiee and without loss of seniority.
Section 11. Ucavio of absence for the purpose of attending Union solmols, conventions, conferences, or negotiations of this Agi et'menl shall he grantedi by the Company on a written ropiest from the Local Union subject to the following conditions. Employees chosen by the Union shall he granted leave of nbsciinc not to exceed thirty (30) days, providing that the absolute of micli employee shall not unreasonably affect 1 ho operations of the Company. Whenever possible the Union shall give the Company written notice of not less than fourteen fill days before the requested feave t& to commence.
21
A rcijuest /nr an extension of a Veuve of iihxcnrr must lie made prior to the rxpiinlion of the leave already granted and will Ire considered in relation In existing renditions, Tiir Company agree.1} to allow a maximum of two (2) leave of absences at tike same time for purposes ol tliis section.
Section 15, Employees, may in rase of ill-lienllli, Ire transferred from one department to another, as may he mutually agreed upon.
Section 10. Disabled or handicapped •'employees will he assigned to jobs wherever possible without regard to seniority, at a rate or rates agreed upon.
ARTICLE X — VACATIONS
Vacation entitlement (err employees whose service is broken dire to lay-nlf to the first year of employment shall he granted vacation ■with pay as follows:
Section 1. An rmploytcr becomes eligible for vacation after one year when the employment records show the following:
(a) They have allaineil senioiilv within six (0) months from date of hire; and
'(b) Have not been off Ibr payroll for more than sixty ((10) consecutive days,
I'aymcnt for lhi;t first vacation eiitilf .inenl will he calculated at four Ml percent of ibe gross earnings in lIre period.
As of .limitary 1, MbtH. any employee attaining scitiorily rights anti meeting the above m-<|iiiremcnls will have the same vacation dale as seniority dale.
22
In the event tlie employee is off the payroll lor longer than sixty ((SO) consecutive- days, the vacation date becomes the date of rchxt'e,
Sectiojn 2, (Three (3) weeks vacation annually alter four (4) ylears service with the Company.
Section 3. four (4) weeks vacation annually alter ten (10) years service with the Company.
Section 4. Five (5) weeks- vacation annually after twenty (20) years service with tlt.b Company.
Section B. Six (0) weeks vacation annually after twenty-five (20) years service with the Company.
Section G. I’ay for each week cf holidays granted shall he on lire basis of forty (40) hours pay at the employee's regular hourly rate of pay or two percent-(0%) of gross earnings lor cacr week of holiday whichever is the grkatcr. The Company agrees that employees arc entitled to receive their vacation pay on the last lay worked before cofmcncing their vacation. This is provided the employee provides three (3) days notioc- to their supervisor,
Section 7,	(a) Employees absent for reasons
of sickness, compensable or non-compcnsable accident, who return to work following these phases within one year, shall nevertheless he entitled to annual vacations as set out in Article X, Section 4, and pay for such vacation shall be provided for in Section 7 (b).
(b) In ease of sickness, compensable and noil-compensable accident certified by a practicing physician, an employee, upon his return to the service of the Company, shall receive service credit for each week of such absence, not to
23
exceed twenty-six (20) weeks, as it earnings had been received, The above credits shall be confined to one year's vacation rights on the basis of forty (40) hours per week for the twenty-six week period at his regular rate of pay.
Section 8, Employees whose service with the Company terminates before the end o( any vacation year, shall receive compensation tlicrc-lor, in accordance with the provisions of the "Annual Holidays Act.
Section 8, Vacation periods shall lie arranged subject to the demands of the business, hut R sincere effort will be made to arrange vacations at a time convenient to all in accordance with the seniority of the employees respectively. Each year upon completion of vacation lists, they will he posted on tiic bulletin board,
Section 10. If a paid statutory holiday falls within tiic employee's vacation period, the Company will aiiow the employee concerned a compensatory day’s holiday with pay,
Section 11, Employees with live (C) years or more seniority witli the Company will lie entitled to their full vacation during the summer months every four (4) years, On the basis of twenty-five (25) percent of those eligible in each year in order of seniority,
ARTICLE XI— GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Should tlillcrcnecs arise between the Union or its employee members and the Company as to the, in,■tuner and application of the provisions cf this Agreement, the Union will not authorize, promote, direct, condone or encourage any strike, stoppage or suspension of work, any
21
slowdown or other restriction of production or interference with work in or about the Company's plant or premises, nor will employees lake pari in any such action.
The Company agrees not to lock out employees during the term of this Agreement, An earnest effort will lie made to settle all matters promptly in the following manner:
When an employee is suspended, dismissed, or given written discipline the Company shall have a Union representative present atvtlie time of such action.
Section 1. Shop Stewards may initiate discussions with the supervisors on any potential grievances within their departments. If this action docs not solve the mailer, a representative of the Union will be allowed to (mtber investigate. In the event that either a Union Steward or a Union representative must leave his joh or department in connection with the matter, lie shall (irst notify his supervisor as to what department he is going to and give an explanation why he is going. They must report to the supervisor in charge of the department they wish to cuter before contacting any employee in said department.
Section 2, Step 1: The employee shall hist take the riucslinn up with his department steward and his department supervisor at the name time.
Section 3. Strp 2. if the rase is not settled, then it shall he handled between the Chiel Steward and the department slcwaid whine the grievance was initiated, with or without the aggrieved employee and the plant Superintendent, or his designee.
20
Section 4, Step 3. In the event that no conclusion is readied in the two (2) preceding steps, a meeting shall be scheduled between the Grievance Committee and the Company. An outside Union representative may attend this meeting. Also, the aggrieved employee may attend to present his evidence.
Section C. When a siclllcnient is reached at any stage of t'hii procedure, such decision shall he final and binding.
Section G. If an employee is dismissed for any reason and feds that lie has been unjustly
dismissed, he shall within three (3) working days from receipt of notice of dismissal, nolily flic Grievance Coimniltcc. The Grievance Committee will in turn nolily the Company on the same day they receive such notice from the employee.
The dismissal in question then shall constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with as such, beginning at the third step.
Section 7, If subsequently it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he shall he reinstated to his former position ami shall he compensated for any benefits or lost time. The rate to be used for lost time is his applicable rate of pay.
Section 8, There shall be time limits of two (2) working days between each step of the grievance procedure, unless changed by mutual agreement.
Section 9, All grievances shall he i taken up on Company time during regular working hours,
20
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
Section 1. A Grievance Committee of three (3) who shall be regular employees of the Company, shall be elected by the Union, in a manner determined by them, ami the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of this Committee. Grievances shall Ire taken up at such times agreeable to both parlies.
Section 2, Where the foregoing procedure for tlic settlement of disputes lias been employed, and tlic dispute remains unsettled, the dispute shall Ire referred to an Arbi trillion Committee consisting of three (3) members, one to Ire appointed by tlic Union, one by the Company and tlie third who shall act as Chairman to he mutually agreed upon Iry the oilier two. If agreement cannot lie readied within one (l) week as to the appointment of a third member, lie shall be appointed by the, Minister of Labour for the Province of Alberta, A decision of the majority of the Arbitration Committee shall he deemed to he a decision of (lie Committee. In reaching its decision the Committee shall he governed Iry the provisions of this Agreement. Decisions rendered shall he final and binding upon till parties concerned. The Company and tlic Union agree to hear an equal share of expense incurred, if any, Iry reason of employment of a third member of an Arbitration Committee,
Section 3, A single arbitrator may be substituted for tlic arbitration committee referred to in Section 2 if mutually agreed to Iry tlic Company and tlic Union, This single arbitrator is to be appointed jointly Iry tile Company and the Union, and the nominee's expenses are to be shared on a 50-60 basis.
27
ARTICLE XII—SAFETY AND HEALTH Section 1. Co-operation on Safely
The Union anil (lie Employer shall co-npcrntc in establishing rules anil practices which pro-
mote an occupational environment which will cnlinnce titc physiological anil psychological conditions of employees and which will provide protection from factors adverse to employee health mid safely.
Section 2, Union-Employer Health and Safely Committee
A Health and Safety Ommiil(cc shall he
established which is composed of two Union and two Employer representatives, The Health and Safely Committee shall hold meetings as requested by tile Union or by the Employer lor jointly considering, monitoring, inspecting, investigating and reviewing health and safety conditions and practices and In improve existing health and safety conditions and practices,
Minnies shall he taken of all meetings and copies shall lie sent to the Employer and the Union. A Union Health and Safety Representative shall have the right to participate in the monitoring c£ the work place and to accompany government safely inspectors on inspection tours.
Section 3. Health and Safety Committee Pay Provisions
Time spent by members of the Committee in the course of their duties shall lie considered as time worked and shall lie paid lor in accordance with the lernis of this Agreement.
Section 4. Health and Safety Clothing,
Tools and Equipment
The Employer shall provide all employees 28
working in any unsanitary or potentially hazardous jobs with all the necessary tools, protective equipment ami protective clothing required, These shall be maintained and replaced, where necessary through normal wear and tear at the Employer's expense, It is recognized that such protective equipment and clothing arc temporary measures, U.'lie conditions necessitating their use shall be subjected to further corrective measures through engineering changes or the elimination of the hazard.
Section 5. Monitoring Equipment
The Employer shall provide and maintain work place monitoring equipment for detecting and recording potential and actual health and safety hazards.
Section G, Compliance with Health and Safety Legislation
The Employer shall comply with all applicable federal, provincial "and municipal health and safety legislation and regulations, All standards established under the legislation and regulations shall constitute minimum acceptable practice to he improved upon by agreement of the Union-Employer Health and Safety Committee or negotiations with the Union.
Section 7, Disclosure of Information The Employer shall provide the Union written information which identifies all the biological agents, compounds, substances, by-products and physical hazards associated with the work environment. Where applicable, this information shall include, but not be restricted to, p the chemical breakdown of trade name descriptions, information on known ami suspected potential hazards, the maximum concentration exposure levels, precautions to be taken, symptoms, medical treatment and antidotes.
29
Section 8, Safety nnd Health Records,
Reports and Data
The Employer shall provide Hie Health and Safety Committee upon request all accident reports and other health and safety records in the possession of flic Employer, including records, reports and data provided to and by the Workers' Compensation Hoard and other government departments and agencies,
Section 9. Time Off for Health & Safety Training Union members of the Health and Safely Committee shall he entitled to time off from work with no loss of seniority or earnings to attend seminars sponsored by Hie Alberta Workman's Compensation Hoard fur instruction and upgrading on health and safety matters.
Section 10, Right to Refuse and
No Disciplinary Action No employee shall be discharged, penalized or disciplined for refusing to work on a job or in any workplace or to operate any c<|uipmcnl where hc/she in conjunction with the Health and Safety Committee, ascertains that it would lie unsafe or unhealthy to liimself/lici self, an unborn child, a workmate or the public,, or where it would lie contrary to the applicable federal, provincial or municipal health and safely legislation or regulations. There shall be no loss of pay or seniority during Hie period cf iefusal. No employee shall lie ordered or permitted Lo work on a job which another worker has refused until tile matter is investigated by the Health and Safety Committee and satisfactorily settled,
Section 11, Proper Training No employee shall lie required lo work oil any job or operate any piece of equipment until he/she has received proper training and instructions.
30
Section la, Injury Pay Provisions
An employee who is injmed during working lioins, and is required lo leave fm treatment or is sent home as a result of sitrli injury shall receive payment fur the remainder of the shift at his/her regular rate of pay, without deduction from nick leave, unless a doctor or nurse slates that the employee is lit for further work on that shift.
Section 13. Transportation of Accident Victims Transportation to the ucaiest physician or
hospital for employees rnpiiring medical rare as a result of an accident shall he at the expense of the Employer.
Section 14, Health anti Safety Grievance Where a dispute involving a r|ucstiou of general application or interpretation of this Article occurs, it shall he subject lo the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE XIII SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
Section 1, Should it become necessary to close the plant or a substantial department of the plant and it is not expected that those affected will he re-employed, a separation nllnwanre will tic paid to employees subject to the following:
(a) They have one (1) or more years seniority.
dr' They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid oft within the ninety (fK)) days prriotl preceding the date of notice of closing. Employees on leave of absence up to one yrar, and employees receiving Workers’ Cnmpt oration nr ofl because of sickness or non-coinpensable soci-
al
dent will be eligible, provided they have not been off work in excess of the time limits corresponding to seniority as set out in Article IX, Section 6 (c).
(c)	_ They have not been granted retirement
pension.
(d)	Tiic closing is riot brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown or other cessation of work, fire, government action or Act of God.
(e)	In order to qualify for separation allowance employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required,
If) Separation allowances shall he computed on the basis of the following schedule which is to be used in computing the number of weeks’ pay according to the years of credited service. Payments arc to he computed on the basis of forty (dO) hours per week or the employee's basic work week if different at his regular rate of pay.
Years of Credited Service	Weeks of Pay
1 ........................1
3 _____’ ZI ZZZZZ~	ZZ 2 a
o r~.......zzzzzzzzzz 3%
7......................... 4Vz
a ........._............. CVe
0 —..........-............ O'/s
10	—..........-....-.......m
11	and over, add to l‘/j weeks’ pay for each year of credited service above ten (10) years.
32
Example :
12 years cf credited service:
First 10 years of credited
service .................... 7I/St weeks' pay
Service over 10 years
(12/10 or 2x1%) ............ 3 weeks' pay
Total Separation Allowance l(JVi weeks' pay
To the separation allowance computed as per example add vacation pay lor the current calendar year if the employee has qualified for but not taken such vacation.
(g) The Company shall give notice of its intention to close the plant or a substantial department of the plant referred to in this agreement, at least DO calendar days prior to such closing, Effective on the date of such notice being issued all employees with senior-ily will Ire eligible to receive separation payments whether they arc working or laid oil,
Section 2, Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall on doing so terminate their seniority and employment relationship with tile Company and shall have no further rights tinder this Agreement or under any other Agreement between the signing parties.
Section 3, In the event that part of the plant remains open, employees eligible to receive separation allowance may elect to remain on the seniority list lor possible recall. The Company will hold tile separation allowance lor such employees as long as they arc eligible lor recall, during which time the employee may request payment subject to the provisions of the above section, Those re-employed on this basis
33
dent will be eligible, provided they have not been ofl work in excess ol the time limits corresponding to seniority as set out in Article IX, Section 6 (c).
(c)	They have not been granted retirement pension.
(d)	The closing is not brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown or other cessation of work, lire, government action or Act c£ God,
(e)	In order to qualify for separation allowance employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
(f)	Separation allowances shall he computed on the basis of the following schedule which is to be used in computing the number cf weeks' pay according to the years of credited service, Payments arc to be computed on the basis of forty (40) hours per week or the employee’s basic work week il different at his regular rate of pay.
Years of Credited Service
1 ...........
2 ______
i ZIIZZZ1ZZ
a
7
8 9
10
Weeks of Pay
......... 1
iy»
........ a
_________ 2%
_________ 3
_.......- 3%
-........r/z
............ G'/2
......... 0'/2
.........7 y*
11 and over, add to IVs weeks’ pay lor each year of credited service above ten (10) years,
32
Example :
12 years of credited service:
First 10 years of credited service ..................... 7l/a weeks’ pay
Service over 10 years
(12/10 or 2x 1%) .......... 3 weeks’ pay
Total Separation Allowance 10Va weeks' pay
To the separation allowance computed as per example add vacation pay for the current calendar year if the employee has qualified Icr but not taken such vacation.
(ft) The Company shall give notice of its intention to close the plant or a substantial department of the plant referred to in this agreement, at least 90 calendar days prior to such closing, EITcclive on the date of such notice being issued all employees with seniority will he eligible to receive scparnlinn payments whether they arc working or laid oil,
Section 2, Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall on doing so terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement or under any other Agreement between the signing parties.
Section 3, In the event that part of the plant remains open, employees eligible to receive separation allowance may elect to remain on the seniority list for possible recall. The Company will hold the separation allowance for such employees as long as they arc eligible for recall, during which time the employee may request payment subject to the provisions of the above section, Those re-employed on this basis
33
will receive seniority credits lip to the time of their layoff bill shall not accumulate additional seniority during the period of layoff
Section 4, In respect cif those employees who arc eligible lor separation allowance under this Article, the Company will continue to contribute to the Group Life Insuiaiice( Medical Surgical, Major Medical and Hospitalization plans, Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to three (3) months following the month in which the plant is closed and will be made on the basis existing at the time of closing,
ARTICLE XIV —WORK METHODS Change in Working Methods
Section 1, (a) When the introduction of new equipment makes a material change which is expected to result in the closing cf a department or a substantial reduction m the number of employees in a department, the Company will inform the Chief Steward of the Union of such change at least ninety (00) days in advance of the contemplated change and the parties will discuss wliat is expected to lake place and how the matter may best be bandied. Employees who arc eligible (or placement in the plant will be entitled to the provisions set out m Article V, Section 6(a). Employees with one (I) or more years of seniority who are affected by such change and who arc not eligible lor placement in the plant will be entitled to the provisions set out m Article XIII. Section 2, Where an employee is transferred In work where the job rate is lower, as a direct result of the introduction of new equipment, nr where an employee remains mi a job reduced in value following a trrlimdogiral change, his rale shall not be reduced for a period of three
34
(3) years, including layoff, provided that the employee accepts all opportunities to post' to work where the job rate is higher, unless it is unreasonable, to expect such employees to apply due to such tilings as age, licallli, working conditions, and the employee's ability tu learn the job, Where an employee after a sincere effort is unable to qualify his rate protection shall not be affected. In the application of or adjustment of bracket values, such an employee will not be paid a rate greater than the rate paid him at the lime of (he above mentioned posting, except for reasons of a general wage increase alter the date cf transfer, At the expiring of the three (3) year period set out above, the amount of rale reduction shall be limited to two (2) brackets, at twelve (12) month intervals thereafter, further reductions of a maximum of two (2) brackets shall take place until the lower rate prevails.
(1)1 Establishing tales (or new jobs: l'or the purpose of this clause a new job is defined as one which is not presently being performed in the bargaining unit. Additions or changes to the present wage schedule shall be the subject of collective bargaining between the Company and the Union, Any new job rates agreed to shall be retroactive lo the date on which the new job or jobs began.
ARTICLE XV—CONTRACTING OUT
Title Company prefers to have work done by its employees, although at limes it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors, The Company can contract out if no employee with senioritv loses his job and as long as those employees directly affected by the contracting out do not suffice any reduction fit pay during tile life of this agreement.
3G
ARTICLE XVI—PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Section 1, Part-time anil casual employ ecu
will not be used where it Is practical to employ full-time employees, anil, except as otherwise agreed with the Chief Steward, pail-thuc employees will not he employed for the purpose of reducing overtime unless that part-time work is required on a regular basis. Where the work performed Ity part-time or casual employees can be satisfactorily comhined to pet mil the employment of a full-time employee, this will he done provided the employee can salisfacti.it ily perform the work, Part-time employees shall work less than twenty-four (21) hours per- week.
Section 2, The Union may submit and the Company will consider, alternative means of doing the required work rather than employ part-time or casual employees and such matters may he subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
ARTICLE XVII —GENERAL
Section 1. The Company shall supply bulletin boards for the ttsc of Ihc Union, lor the posting cf notices of official union business, such notices to he approved by the Management.
Section 2, Al the option of the Company, when an employee's personal alfairs make it desirable for him to he relieved of Company duties, leave of absence without pay beyond Ihc regular vacation period to which an employee is entitled may lie granted for good and sufficient reason, This is providing that such leave of absence does not interfere with the requirements of the business. It is1 agreed that leave of absence shall not inleillrru with other employees' vacation choices,
30
Section 3, I ,< ave of ahsenre u-tll not he granted for the purpose of allowing :my on-phrycc to take another position temporarily, try nut new work, or venture into business for himself.
Section 4. Leave of absence, tirfore being planted, must be requested In writing and approved by the Comiiany in writing. A cotry of the request, whether appmvod or not approved, is to be given to tire Chief Steward.
SectioSi 6. Laundry "d evice for/" outer work clothing shall be maintained at no cost to the employee,
Section G. The Company will allow employees adequate relief as well as necessary time for changing clothing or equipment necessitated Iry a change in working conditions.
Section 7. The Company ami (be Union agree to supply ? copy of (iris Agreement to each employee of the Company affected thereby.
Section 8. The Company agrees to provide a full day's pay to any employee su/Tciing injury or emergency sickness which requires absence during such day for medical or hospital attention. To lie. eligible for lids pay, the employer must report to bis supervisor or to the lirs| aid attendant before leaving the plant,
Section 9. Tins Company agrees that any regular employee of the Company summoned to appear for Jury Duly, or who serves on Jury Duty, or is a Subpoenaed Witness, shall Ire (raid wages amounting to the difference ltd wren the amount paid them for jury service and llir .•minniil they would have rained had they worked on sucii days with their regular
37
gang, If the subpoena lor witness is the result of the employee working on another job, this clause will not apply.
Section 10. Any working conditions now in effect and not specifically covered by this Agreement shall remain in cflcct unless changed
by collective bargaining.
Section 11... When an employee attends the funeral of an immediate relative, be shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for the day of the funeral and two oilier days either immediately before or alter the funeral, provided such payments arc made only in respect to absence from work cm his regular work days. For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative snail be one of the followin’. Spouse, Daughter, Sori, Mother, Father, Sister, Brother, Mother-in-Law, Fathcr-in-Daw, Sistcr-in-Daw, Brother-in-Law, Grandparents and Grandchildren.
In the case of Gramlparcnts-in-Law, StepSon and Step-Daughter, the employes: is entitled to the day c£ the funeral only.
Section 12. (a) Laimdcrahlo outer work clothing, oilskin aprons, and oilskiti sleeves, specified by the Company as required far work in the plant, will be supplied to employees, Such clothing remains the property cf the Company and shall not be removed from the Company's premises except in the regular performance of duty, arid must be returned for new issue or upon separation of the employee. Clothing not returned when worn out or upon separation will be paid for by the employee,
(b)	Tlic Company agrees to supply rubber boots to employees who have completed sixty (GO) days worked, Worn- out boots must be
88
returned to the Company before a new pair will bo issued. These rubber boot!! remain the property of I lie Company and must not be removed from the premises. Upon separation, any employee not returning tbe bools will be responsible to reimburse the Company lor the cost of the boots.
Any employee with seniority who chooses not to wear the Company provided rubber bools will be granted a lootwear allowance of $3G,00 per year.
(c)	Tlic Company agrees to grant all full lime hog loading employees with seniority, a heavy , quilled vest or liner allowance of $10.00 per year.
Section >13, Tools- Mechanical Tradesmen of tbe Mechanical Department with seniority, shall upon presentation of required tools broken on the. job and worn out required tools, receive replacement tools. Such replacements shall be limited to those specified by tbe Company as being required and shall in addition be limited to a maximum of $70,00 per contract year per affected employees,
flection If, "fbe Chief .Shop Siewaid shall lie notified by Management regarding the rate of pay and place of employment c£ each new employee,
Section 10, An employee who finds it necessary to apply for leave of absence as a result of Iter pregnancy, will upon presentation of a medical certificate denoting fitness for her work, and within three months following delivery be lelnntaled to her former job or to one of equal rating. It Is Agreed that employees referred in this clause shall continue to accumulate seniority while on such leave cf absence,
31)
Section 10. The Company agrees to allow employees where required, five (5l miinitrs cleanup time prior to their regular quitting lime.
For employee'* hired prior to May 8, 1885,
the following section applies:
Section 17.	(a) Weekly indemnity benefits
will he paiil in accordance with the terms ami conditions o( the plan as detailed in the employee booklet lit the following amounts:
6th and
Subsequent
Job brackets	1st 4 Week* Week*
0-1 Bracket	*285,00/Week *200.00/Week
5-12 Urackct *300.00/Week *305.00/Week 13 Urackct & over *3l5.00/Wcck *320.00/Week
Service scale for duration of payments is:
3 Months t0 18 Months service ...... 4 weeks
18 Months to Five Years service ....	10	weeks
n Years to 7 Years	service ......... B0	weeks
7 Years (o I0 Year*	service ........  34	weeks
10 Years and over .................... 52	weeks
The employee is In pay a monthly premium of *5,00, with the Company paying lire ditlrrcncc necessary to maintain lire pints.
Benefits will commence on the [mirth (4th1 day of absence for sickness nr iioii-rnmprnsahlr ilijniy provided the employee oldains medical rcrliliciile ptinr In lids day. In the event Ilia I a medical ccitilicnle is not pmvidrd hv the fourth (dlh) day of absence, benefits will not commence until the certificate is provided.
40
The waiting period in waived after an cm-liluyee is admitted to hospital lor a minimum ol twciily:!i)ur (24) hours.
A/£ ^ /r* A /-> • -------------——----------------
All employees hired subs'CMpicnt to May i), 1085 have'the following waiting period before being cligibllu to join the plan.
Service	■% Paid by Company
0-4 years .......................... 0%
4 - 9 years ........................ 50 %
Over 9 years( ......................100 %
In the event an employee lias a claim refused by the Workers’ Compensation Hoard for reasons of "non-compcnsablc claim”, lie shall become eligible for benefits under the Weekly Indemnity plan, provided the Icmployee is (|iialliicd. This is provided the terms and conditions of (lie plan arc met. In addition, the employee must sign a statement to the effect that if benefits arc subsequently received from the Workers' Compensation Hoard, for the claim, benefits received tinder the Weekly Indemnity plan must be repaid to the insurer.
Both the Company and the Union agree that in the event a claim refused by the Workers' Compensation Hoard would appear to he appealable, the employee should be encouraged to proceed with an appeal.
(b) All eligible employees will be covered with group life insurance for ilfi.OOQ.OO,
All employees hired prior to May 9, 1085 have a ninety (90) working day period before becoming eligible to join the plan.
The full cost of this, coverage is’ to be paid for by the Company,
41
✓Ts
All employees hired prior to M$r g, 1 day period before becoming eligible t
All cmploy.ccH 11irc(I h111i<i<?111 lo May 0,
1085 have llie name wailing pciind ami cost coverage as outlined in Section -iih—	/
(c)	ALBERTA HEALTH CARE coverage is provided for all eligible employees.
All employees hired prior to May 1), 11(85 have a ninety (IK)) working day period before becoming eligible to join the. plan and Iisivc lh|e coverage paid by the Company.
All employees hired snbsleantenl to May f),
11)86 have the same waiting period for coverage, but the prfcmium cost is shared as follows:
employees witli 0-4 years service ... Nil by Co. Employees with 4-t) yeais service ... M% by Co. Employees over 0 years service .... W0% by Co.
(d)	An extended hcaltli plan, providing coverage to all eligible employees, is to be provided by the Company. This plan includes vision care coverage of 876,00 every 24 months.
Reimbursement will not he provided for any expense incurred for sun glasses, safety glasses, or for any form of eyeglasses provided for cosmetic or aesthetic purposes.
No deductable or co-iiisuraucc applies to the vision care items.
All employees hired suhsetpiVpl lo May 0, 1085 have the same wailing period ami cost coverage _ as outlines] in Section -18.	' •
All ■employees hired prior lo May 9, 1085 have a ninety (00) working day period before becoming eligible to join tile plan.
A')
985 have a o j o i n the
90 worklny plan.

A )
((') The t"'>1111i:tMy -Ili;i11 mill innc In |i;iy Tin nil costs of Alberta 11 mil It Caie, Dental. Fa-IciifJcil I lealth I'Inn ami hie i11nttr<i11cprciiiium for eligible employers (those lilrcil prior to May 0, IPSfi) on tcxlemlcd disability or sick leave. I'.ncli employer shall lie trtpmcd lo provide adequate evidence of such disability or sickness.
Kffectivc June 1. l!IS:t, a I flip; term disability plan was instituted, as outlined ljclow;
Kffectivc June I, IPK3, the Company will arrange to have an insninnee carrier provide a Long Term Disability l’lan wliich will include the following provisions:
— - Full time employees arlively at work on the effective date arc eligible (or the Finn on attainment of rnic year's seniority. Fmplo'yces absent from work on the date they would otherwise have been eligible must return to work and satisfactorily complete two months’ full time work to be eligible.
-•- Long h'erni Disability brnelits will he payable where ait employee is mmhlc lo perform any employment for rcrnmierntinn or profit solely by reason of total disability through sickness or accident. The sole determination of cases rpialifying for benefits will lie made by the insurance, company based upon continuing medical evidence of such disability as it considers satisfactory. To rpialify, any ease involving alcohol or dnif/ rcialnl roudilimis will reunite active supervision by nml rontimiing treatment Irom a rehabilitation rr litre or a prnvincially designated institution. Any ease involving mental iilucss will require continued treatment under an approved specialist, and will only be paid in eases of severe roudilimis involving personality disorganization (psychotic conditions). Any cm-
43
ploycc in receipt of Long Term Disability benc-lils will not receive any credited service during the period oftime that lie receives such benefits.
— The amount of benefit willbe Jl,000.00 per moult) less any benefit for which the employee is eligible under the. Canada or Quebec Tension Plan Primary Disability Benefit, Workers’ Compensation or other government or government sponsored plan, excluding any pre-existing disability benefit, Tile employee will be presumed eligible for such government benefits until satisfactory evidence is presented that his application for tlvcm has been denied.
— Thb benefit will commence after the employee has been absent due to the disability lor oitc year or after Ids sickness and accident pay entitlement lias expired, whichever is earlier, and will he payable until recovery, actual retirement date, normal retirement date, or death, whichever comes first,
—	Should an employee return to work after collecting. Long Term Disability benefits and subsequently again cease work as a result of ■the same or a related disability, the benefit will recommence without a waiting period provided the disability recurred within a year of tire employee's return to work; otherwise, the employee will be subject to the normal waiting period before the benefit commences.
—	No benefit will be paid to an employee under the Company’s Sickness and Accident Plan where 'the employee, is entitled l!o receive benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan and no employee shall receive a benefit under the Long Term Disability Plan wliilci lie is receiving benefits under the Company’s Sickncs3 and Accident Plan,
U
— Where an employee returns Id work under mi approved rehabilitation piogram of uj> to 24 months, the benefit will be reduced by '50% of any earnings, provided the total gross income from all sources' docs not exceed 1)0% of the pre-disability normal grove wages.
— No benefit will bo paid for intentionally self-inflicted injuries, or lor disabilities arising front a declared or undeclared act of war, participation in a riot of insurrection, employment with another employer, or conunlsion of a f-clony.
•—Where an employee is absent from work and receiving Long Term Disability benefits for a period of three consecutive years or longer liven as cf the end of the third year Ins seniority and employment with the Company shall he deemed broken and thereafter lliprc shall he no obligation on the part of the Company to rchirc him, Notwithstanding the foregoing proviso as1, to a period of three or more c'ou-secutivc years, if an employee returns to work after collecting Long Term Disability benefits and if within one year thereafter lie again ceases work as the result of the same or a related disability and receives. Long Term Disability benefits, then such further period of absence from work while receiving Long Term
Disability benefits shall lie deemed to be consecutive with the immediate previous absence and such further period of absence nliri11 be taken into account and added onto the previous absence in determining whether the> employee lias been absent from work and received Long Term Disability benefits for a period of three consecutive years or longer.
40
All employees hired subsccpicnt lo May 11, 1UM5 have the same wailing [ikiiod and cost coverage ns outlined in Section «UC—
(fl) Hearing aid coverage to a maximum of $51X1.00 per lilsstime is'to Ire provided for eligible employees.
AU employees hired subsei/mnt to May 1>, rave the same waiting period and cost coverage as mitlincd in Section 4Kr—
Section It is understood tlial where the word "he” is used in this Agreement, it shall also cover female employees.
Section The Company recognizes the importance and desirability of stabilizing employment on an annual basis and to that end will attempt lo give employees fifty-two weeks work per year including the vacation period, ft is understood and agreed by the Company and the Union that the foregoing sentence constitutes a statcujcnt of policy only and is not intended to and does not impose any contractual obligations wiiatsocvcr on the Company.
Section-ZU Pension
'I'lu- Company wishes to terminate tlrtc present pension plan,
The Company undertakes to put into place by July 1, H>H() a non conli ibutory plan that pays a monthly pension similar to tliki amount paid by Gainers.
F.ach member of the present pension plan shall have the option lo elect lo receive cither ol tile following:
(a)	A life annuity guaranteed for 10 years tor I lie amount of pension earned lo dale payable at the later of age (id or actual rctirc-
40
/ 7/n )
> ->/n )
incut from FIctrlier's. Ill no case will tlic aiiniiily ho loss than dial wliicli can he pur-clniKcd by tin; employee's own contributions accumulated. with hitrlrcst.
(b)	A litnip sinn payment equal to the employee's contributions accumulated with interest,
The above options pertain only to employees not vested, Vested employees must choose option “a”.
The effect of choosing option ‘V is that the employee automatically becomes IW% vested.
In addition, provided there is sufficient in-tlcrest (minimum 50 persons! the Company will set up and administer a monthly payroll deducted R.R.S.P. plan.
.	? I
Section diih Dental Plan The Company shall provide a prepaid Dental Plan providing for eighty (80) percent coverage under Plan "A” and fifty (50) percent coverage under Plan "11” lor all bargaining unit employees hired prior to May 9, 1085. To be eligible these employees must have completed 0 months service. For employees hired after May 9, M85, the eligibility requirements and basis for cost sharing of the premiums are as detailed in Section-Wr* Part- /I icipation in the plan upon beaching eligibility is a condilon of employment for all employees 1 provded said employees arc not receiving coverage under a different Dental Plan.
Section 23. The Company shall reimburse the employees for the renewal of necessary licences required in the performande of their duties. i 3
Scction-«l4r Management personnel shall not assume dutibs that arc normally performed h;y hourly paid employees except where such duties
47

arc limited to uccasiomil w<i* Ic, im •nliciDIc i.. amount, but sucli management personnel shall in no wiry be restricted from woili which i
(al is c£ confidential clerical untune,
'(b) [s for the purpose of just ruction, experimentation, demonstration, investigation, replacement of an employee absent from liis job during the day, or coping witli an emergency. An emergency herein shall not bo construed as including work resulting front additional volume,
(e) is to overcome production diiiiculties caused by tile absence of an employee, Ju such cartes lire Company will advise the Union as to the absence of the employee and will obtain a suitable tie,placement within on-c-lialf ('/a) day.
X ^
Section flfrt Upon the expiration of six (0) months for minor offences, and one (I) year for major offences, from the date of 111c occur-crncc upon which a disciplinary entry or adverse reference to an employee's conduct was entered in the employee's personal tile, the Company will be precluded from using such entry or reference in any disciplinary action.
16'
' Scction-BOr The Company agrees to ad van re to employees awaiting wage loss benefits under the Workers’ Compensation hoard Act, the amount of benefits due up to the maximum
amount of accrued vacation pay due to the employee, This is provided the following:
(a) there is at least a two (2) week lapse of time since tiic benefits became payable,
(li) tiic employee lias completed all necessary forms as required by the Workers' Compensation hoard.
43
(c)	llie Doctor's Report as required by tlie Workets' Compensation Hoard Ins liceli emu-plelcd mill forwarded In 1 lie llumil.
The amount <>( funds mlvanccil under this section is strictly an advance to the employee, anil the employee must pii;n a letter to this rlicet which would also authorize the Company to withhold the Workers' Compensation Hoard benefit due and apply the funds to repay the advance. 7 ^
Section'd!/', In the event of any, walkout or stoppage of work, the Union shall not do nr permit to he done, anything hy any of its members to prevent engineering and maintenance stall from continuing all or any part ol their regular duties, Furthermore, the Union shall co-opcratc and assist the Company in taking reasonable precautions to protect perishable products, hut such assistance shall only extend through such period as the Company docs not attempt to Restore normal production.
ARTICLE XIX" X'//// DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Section 1. This Agreement shall take _cfTicJ, ns_of thc^ 1st day of June, 19H4 and shall remain til effect until the 1st day of Jypuj IJt^fi,. and from year to year thereafter, provided, however, that this Agreement may he terminated on the 1st day ol June MW>, or on the 1st day of Jtui'e any year thereafter hy eithei party on written notice mailed hy registered post to the Company or to the Union not more than ninety M)0) days anil not less than thirty 1.101 days pi ior to the 1st day of June HIM! or prim to the 1st day of June of any year tlreicaller.
49
Section 2. During llic period of negotiations resulting from any of the provisions above, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Signed on behalf of the Company:
Fletcher’s Fine Foods. Ltd.
7650 - dOtli Avenue, Red Deer, Alberta
BILL DUCKENFIELD
DONALD SIM
Signed on behalf of the Union:
United Food and Commercial Workers, International, A.F.L. - C.I.O. - C.L.C., Local 1118P-2, Red Deer, Alberta
NORMAN LtoCLAIR
MILES ASTLEY
JIM BEGGS
60

APPENDIX. A
BRACKET VALUES AND LABOUR RATES
Employees liiicd prior to Oct. 17/84
Starting Rale _______ 11.05
Alter 7 weeks________ 11,00
Bracket 0............  12,0!)
Bracket 1______________ 12.17
Bracket 2______________ 12.25
Bracket 3______________ 12.33
Bracket 4_______________12.41
Bracket 5______________ 12.49
Bracket 0______________ 12.57
Bracket 7______________ 12,05
Bracket 8______________ 12.73
Bracket 9_______________12.81
Bracket 11_____________ 12,07
Bracket 12______________13.05
Bracket 14 ------------ 13,21
Bracket 15_____________ 13.29
Bracket 31______________14.57
Employees liired between Oct. 17/B4 May 9/05
8.09
8.09
8.09
8,li7
8.215
8.33
8.41
8.40
8.57
8.05 8.73 8.81 8.97
9.05 9.21 11.20
10.57
Bracket 34_____________ 14.81
Bracket 30_____________ 14.97
Bracket 40______________16,29
10.81
10.97
11.29
51
Job Oracles:
Gang Leader ■— twenty cents (20c.) alcove the highest job bracket in his department. In cases o( vacancy, the Rang trailer will he nn appointed position mutually agreeable to management and the Union. Said employee shall he allowed three (31 mouths to decide if he wishes to perform said job. If not, the employee shall report to his former position.
The First Aid Attendant ImldiiiR a Class J! Ccrliliratc shall receive a iirenihnn of' Thirty (30) cents per hour over his applicable rale, and the First Aid Attendant holding a Class C Certificate shall receive a premium nf twenty-five (25) cents per hour over his applicable rate.
i
V7-
APPENDIX 11
Job	JOB KATES	Bracket
Driver _____....-...-.................. 1
Electrical Stunner   ------------------ 6
Sliacklcr_________________________„ 7
Sticker _________-..................... 10
Tank and Dchairing Machine Operator____	8
Gam Cord Cutter________________________ 0
Insert Gambrel and Ilang ..........—. 3
Feed Line and Shave ___________._______ G
Carcass Shaver Hams ...................   7
Carcass Shaver Balance__________________  G
Open Brisket __________________________   G
Tongue Remover  ...............—-—™ 11
Tongue Remover and Break Heads _________ 11
Break Heads ----------------------------- 9
Bung Dropper ........................    12
Open Aitch Bone and Bellies --------—7
Face Hams----------------------------     a
Gutter .....................-.......... 11
Pop Kidney, Pull Pleura, Mark Brisket and Check Shave________________________   3
Sawyer______________________—----------, 11
Feed Held Line ------------------------ 0
Take OH Held Line _____________________ 0
Held Rail (Complete) .................    9
Trim Stick Holes-----------------------   2
, V
JOB RATES—(Continued) Job
Sealer .....................
Stamper ____________________
Leaf Lai d Puller ______
Leaf Lard Scraper__________..
Skin Heads .................
Place Hogs in Cooler........
Head Boning ................
Save Oilal and Glands.......
Save Chitterlings _____
Roller Man__________________
Sharpies____________________
Basement....................
Floor and Clcau-up —........
Night Clean-up______________
racket
0
2
. U 2
, U 2 U 4 2 2 8 4 0 4
Fancy Meats:
Trimmer ......
Pack and Seale Freezer Man -
4
4
4
Pork Cut:
Cut off Hams —.
Band Saw —....
Lift Neck Bones
Trim Butts, Picnics and Shoulders ..
It
11
11
11
JOB KATIES—(Continued)
Job
Rib Bellies ...............
Pull and Trim Loins...........
Wrap and Pack ..............
Pack and Scale .............
Skipper ...................
Shipper’s Helper ___________
Strapper Operator .........
Truck Dtiver aud Deliveries . Truck Driver - Semi Trailer Ni|;ht Clean-up ._..........
Bracket
11
8
1
2
7
4
1
12
14
4
a
Loading Dock:
Load Trucks .......—........................ 3
t
Maintenance:
Welder • — Journey man
Certified Ticltet ....................... 30
JClerlrieiau — Journeyman
Certified Ticket . .... ...	.	..... 40
3rd Class Strain and Refrigeration
Cei tilled Ticket . .. ................ ..	34
4th Class Sic,am and Refrigeration Certified Ticket............-............. 31
Miscellaneous:
Knife Sharpener and Maintenance Helper ft
Laundry ............................... fi
Janitor .................................. 1
■< 2
. APPENDIX C
BRACKET VALUES & LABOUR RATES All employees hired after date of ratification:
Tlic starling rate is S7V50 per hour and after G uionUis of service ^llw: natc wll be increased to 18.09. when qualified for a particular job, an additional ,08c. per hour is to be added to the above rates for each bracket.
May 4, 1006.
Letter of Understanding PART-TIME WORKERS
The company may employ part-time workers, if agreed to by Hie union, for work performed on calendar Saturdays or Sundays under the following conditions:
1.	Full time employees with seniority who are on lay-off status shall be callod in order of seniority and given the option of working or not at the part-time rate ns detailed in (I) below, provided they arc qualified to perform the work to be done.
2.	If the company fails to secure workers as
indicated in (1) above, they may hire new employees.	j
3.	The company shall notify the onion prior to any work performed on a calendar Saturday or Sunday by pnrt-timio workers, and notify the union in writing Cor the reasons therefore.
4.	The rate of pay for part-time workers who perform work on a calendar .Saturday or Sunday shall be $8.00 per hour, plus the premium as detailed in Article VII, Section f»(d).
In respect to this memorandum, the Union agrees to co-operate with lire Company, provided lire conditions hereto 1 arc met, and that the request for tire Saturday or Sunday work can be reasonably justified.
Letter of Understanding TRIAL SHIFT
If the'Company instilul(‘5| a new shift on a trial basis, life Company may, for a period of not more Ilian 0 mouths, institute a .10 hour J’uarantee for the crew hired for that shift. At the conclusion of the trial period, tiro provisions of Article VI shall apply.
lOnly one snrh trial sDiifl wjll lie initiated during the term of this agrecnitnt,