Collective Agreement Between
Intercontinental Packers LTD Saskatoon
and
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union Local 248-P
Begins:
04/01/1988
Terminates:
03/31/1991
00292 (02)
Preamble	Article
. _... .	t
RECOGNITION .................................. 2
BARGAINING UNIT .............................. 3
MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP .................... 4
GENDER	5
MANAGEMENT ................................... 6
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE........................... 7
Grievance Committee ......................... 7-1-A
Election of Stewards ...................... 7-1-B
Grievances on Company Time ................ 7-1-C
Stewardssecure permissionto leave
department ............................. 7-1-D
Prompt settlement of grievances ........... 7-1-E
Grievance procedure.first to
third steps ............................ 7-2-A
Grievance procedure.fourthto
fifth steps ............................ 7-2-A-6
Elimination of fourth step ................ 7-2-C
Presence of aggrieved employee(s) ......... 7-2-D
Grievance submitted in writing ............ 7-2-E
Workingdays as relatedto
grievance procedure .................... 7-2-F
Retroactive pay on grievances ............. 7-3
Disciplineand dismissal ................... 7-4-A
Discipline and dismissal .................... 7-4-B
Finality of decisions ..................... 7-5
No cessation of work ...................... 7-6-A
Slowdowns ................................. 7-6-B
Transfer of stewards ...................... 7-7
Performanceofduty during
grievance procedure .................... 7-8
Suspension or discharge ................... 7-9
Pay for discipline meeting at night ....... 7-10
WAGES ........................................ 8
V\^ge increase April 1,1988 ............... 8-1-A
V\^ge increase April 1,1989 ............... 8-1-B
V\^ge increase April 1,1990 ............... 8-1-C
Starting rate after Aug. 22, 1988 ......... 8-1-D
Starting rate beforeAug. 22, 1988 ......... 8-1 -E
Premiums for Saturday and/or Sunday ....... 8-2-A
Rate and job classification ............... 8-2-B
Composite rates ........................... 8-3
Temporary rates ........................... 8-4
Gang leaders .............................. 8-5
Instructionor assistance in training ...... 8-6
Transfer to lower rated job ............... 8-7-A-B
Night shift premium ....................... 8-8
Method of paying employees ................ 8-9
Over-rates................................. 8-1 o
Injuries .................................. 8-11
Page
1
1
2
2
3
3
3
3
4
4
5
6 6 6
6
6
6
6
7
7
7
7
7
8 8 6 8 8 8 8 8 8 9 9 9 9
10
10
10
11
11
12
	Article	Page
HOURS OF WORK	9	12
All Plants	9 I-A	12
Overtime procedure	9-1 -B	13
Overtime rates	9-1 C	13
Union co-operation on overtime	9-1-D	13
Overtime to be voluntary	9-1-E	13
Overtime for dav workers	9-2	13
Weekly hours of work and definition of a day 			 9-3-A	13
Daily and weekly shortage of work.......
Saturday overtime ......................
Sunday overtime .....................
First and second day off ...............
Statutory holidays .....................
Personal days "Floating Holiday" .......
Regular shift engineers .............
Clarification for offshifts ............
Absence during recognized paid holiday Leaveof absenceon recognized
oaid holiday ........
Statutory holidays during vacations
Daily guarantees
Emergency call-in
Meal allowance
Exception on meal allowance
Breakfast meals
Notice of change of shift
Knife sharpening time
Equipment supplied
Rest periods
Time off
37 HOUR GUARANTEE Weekly guarantee Exceptions day workers Exceptions absentees Exceptions excused absence Exceptions new hiring Exceptions, lay-off notice Avoiding guaranteed time penalty Guaranteed pay Guarantee in holiday weeks Hiring part time workers
SENIORITY Seniority defined Probationary period Seniority lists
Promotions and vacancies Job postings
9-3-E
94-A
9-4-B
9-4-C
9-5-A
9-5-A
9-5-A
9-5-B
9-5-C
9-5-D
9-6
9-7
9-8
9-9
9-10 A 9 10 E 9-11-A B-C
9	12-A 9-12-B 9-13
9-	14
10
10-	1 10-1-A 10-1 B
10-1 -c
10	1-D IO-I-E 10-1 -F 10-1-G
10-	1-H 10-1-1
11
11-	1 11-2 11-3 11-4-A 11-4-B
13
14 14 14
14
15 17
17
18
18
18
19
19
19
19
20 20 20 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 22 22 22 22 22 22 22 23 23 23
23
24 24
II
Job postings mechanical progression
Lose <f seniority .........
Voluntaryleavesordismissed lor
cause ...........................
Failure to report on recall ........
Allowable time off payroll .........
Absence due to sickness or accident
Lay-off procedure ..................
Re-Ca'li procedure .................
Lay-off in emergency ...............
Temporary re-call ..................
Reduction of staff by shifts .......
Procedure on transferring employees
Election on lay-off ................
Leave for position with union ......
Provision for company trainees .....
Address change .....................
Pregnancy leave ....................
VACATIONS ............................
Length of vacation .......
Calculation of holiday pay Eligibility for first vacation . Vacation credit for sickness Vacation pay in advance .
Vacation season ..........
Vacation season ..........
Unused vacation credits ....
Banking of vacation ......
SAFETYAND HEALTH ...........
Firstaid and protective devices and
Use of safety equipment ....
Safety committee .............
Health and safety concerns ...
GENERAL ........................
Clothes changing time .........
Laundry services ..............
Union bulletin boards .........
Privileges and benefits .......
Powerhousestafftoremain during
work stoppage ................
Jury duty .....................
License renewal ...............
Bereavement leave .............
Bereavement leave .............
Company supplied clothing Purchase of quilted vest Purchase of safety footwear Mechanical tool replacement Tardiness and absence No discrimination
Article
11-4-C
11-S
11-5-A 11-5-B 11-5-C 11-6 11-7-A 11-8-A 11-8-B 11-8-C 11-9
11-10-A-B-C IH1 11-12 11-13 11-14
11-	15 12
12-	1-A 12-1-B 12-2
12-3-A-6
12-4
12-5-A
12-5-B-C
12-6
12-	7
13
13-	1 13-2
13-	3
14
14-	1 14-2 14-3 14-4
14-5
14-6
14-7
14-8-A
14-8-B
14-9-A
14-9-B
14-9 C
14 10
14-11
14 12
Page
25
25
25
25
25
25
26 26 26 27
27 27, 28
28 28 29 29
29
30 30
30
31 31 31
31
32 32 32 32
32
33 33 33
33
34 34 34
34
34
34
34
35 35
35
36 36 36 36
ili
Leave of absence Hearing tests Staff Sales
HEALTH AND WELFARE ,
Health and accident insurance Weekly indemnity sick pay plan Duration cf payments Company pay sick premium Cease deduction of sick premium Medicare and hospitalization Major medical
Life insurance and A D & D Vision care Dental plan Hearing aids
Eligibility ...........................
Continuation of benefits coverage .....
LONG TERM DISABILITY .....................
DURATION OF AGREEMENT APPENDIXALL PLANTS
Plant closing .........................
Work methods ..........................
Contracting out .......................
Recognition of long service ..... ..
Early retirement ......................
Contributory pension plan LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Saskatchewan medical rebates LETTER OF UNDERSTAND! NG Information to the union LETTER OF UNDERSTAND! NG All plants
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Reference absenteeism .................
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Permanent disability LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Weekly indemnity insurance plan LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Calculation of holiday pay LETTER OF UNDERSTAND! NG New starting rate LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Funding of long service award LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Unemployment insurance premium reduction CLOTHING SUPPLIED AT SASKATOON BRACKET VALUES JOB RATES
Article
14	13 14-14-A-B
14-	15
15
15-	1 15-2-A 15-2-B-C 15 2-D 15 2-E 15 3
15 4
15-5
15-6
15-7
15-8
15
I5
15	1
16
I
IV
V
VI
Page
37
37
37
37
37
38 38 38
38
39 39
39
40 40 40
40
41
41 & 42
©
44-47
47
48
49
50
51
51
51
52
52
53
53
54
54
55
55
55
56 to 58 58 lo 71
iv
PREAMBLE
This Agreement entered into as of the 1st day of April,
198$
Between
Intercontinental Packers Ltd., hereinafter called "The Company" or their successor, and
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union; Local 248-P, or its successor affiliated with the A.F.L.-C.I.O.and the Canadian Labour Congress, on behalf of the Local Union herein named; hereinafter called "The Union".
In consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree each with the other as follows.
Article 1 — PURPOSE
The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to define clearly hours of work, wages and conditions of employment. To provide an amicable means of settling any differences which may arise. To promote the mutual interest of the Company and its employees and to provide for the operation of the plant under methods which will further to the fullest extent possible the safety and welfare of the employees, combined with the economy of operations, quality and quantity of output, cleanliness of the plant and the protection of property. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the responsibility of the Company and its employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
Article 2 — RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency for its plants as listed below for all
employees as set forth in Article 3 hereof with respect to wages, hours of work, and terms and conditions of employment.
The Company will not bargain collectively during the term of this Agreement with any other labour organization affecting employees in any bargaining unit.
Plant	Bargaining Agency
Saskatoon, Sask................ Local 248-P, UFCW
Article 3 - BARGAINING UNIT
The term employee as used in this Agreement shall be considered to include all employees of the Company with the following exceptions
(a)	Executive officers, buyers and salesmen
(b)	Office staff
(c)	Foremen
(d)	Security staff
Article 4 - MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP
, * Eve^ employee who is now or hereaflfiL-beSQtnes a ^	' member of the Union shall mSlniairrErs membership in the
Union as a condition of his employment, and every new employee whose employment commences herelFfer ghall, within fourteen (14) days after the commencement of his employment, apply for and maintain membership in the . Union as a condition of his employment The Company ' agrees to deduct the union dues, assessments and initiation fee for each employee covered by this Agreement and turn over the amount deducted to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union by the 15th of each month along with a list showing all those employees who have been deducted and amount so deducted along with a list of those employees for whom no deduction was made and the reasons therefor

Article 5 - GENDER
Except where specifically stated to the contrary, provisions of this agreement shall apply to all employees in the bargaining unit. The use of the masculine gender shall be considered to include the feminine.
Article 6 - MANAGEMENT
The management and operation of the business shall be vested solely in the Managementof the Company, provided that this right shall not be used to violate or avoid any terms of this Agreement.
Article 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7-1. (a) A Grievance Committee, the number not to exceed five, who shall be regular employees of the Company, shall be elected by the Union in a manner determined by them, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of this Committee. However, the Company will only be obligated under Paragraph (c) to bear the cost of three (3) of the Grievance Committee.
(b)	Union Stewards, the number to be decided by the Union, shall be elected by the Union in a manner determined by them and the Company shall be kept informed by the Union of the personnel of the Union Stewards.
(c)	All grievances shall be taken up on Company time during regular working hours.
(d)	If a Steward has to leave his job or department in connection with a grievance, he shall first secure permission from the foreman before leaving the job or department. Such permission shall be granted as promptly as possible but shall, in no case, exceed one (1) hour. He must report to the person in charge of department visited before contacting any employee in said department. If the elected Chief Steward's job is such that it seriously interferes with production he will be placed on another job comparable to his posted job. This will be by mutual
3
agreement between the Company and the Union.
(e)	It is agreed that a desirable feature of the grievance procedure will be to settle all grievances promptly, and that consultation in any step of the foll'owing procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that friction or animosity will be reduced to a minimum.
7-2. (a) The following procedure shall be applicable progressively fo the adjustment of disputes or grievances: First Step: Between the Union Steward, the employee and the foreman of the department in which the employee works. The decision must be rendered within two working days unless mutually agreed otherwise.
Second Step: Between the Union Steward, the Chief Steward or his designated representative (Not to exceed two) and the Plant Superintendent or Divisional Superintendent. The decision must be rendered within two working days, unless mutually agreed otherwise.
Third Step: By the Grievance Committee of the Union, who shall take the matter up with the Local Plant Superintendent. In case of emergency a meeting can be called by either party. An outside representative of the Union may be called in if so desired. A decision to be rendered within three working days unless mutually agreed otherwise. All grievances at this stage are to be in writing. If a violation of the contract is alleged the grievance must set out clearly the article, clause and paragraph allegedly violated and in what respect violated.
Should either party intend to proceed to the 4th step, they must advise the other party in writing within five (5) working days from the date the decision was rendered under step 3 of the grievance procedure.
It is agreed between the Company and Local 248-P that the weekly meetings will be continued at the Saskatoon plant. There will be no formal minutes kept of these meetings, but grievance settlements and information to be passed on to the general membership of the Union will be given to the committee in writing.
4
Fourth step: In the event that no conclusion is reached
in the preceding steps, then between the negotiator who
conducts negotiations for the Company (or his representative) and the Chairman of the Intercontinental chain who conducts negotiations for the Union (or his designated representative) together with the committee of the local concerned who will meet in the city where the grievance originated in an attempt to settle the said matter. The decision must be rendered within five (5) working days, unless mutually agreed otherwise. Should either party intend to proceed to the fifth step they must advise the other party in writing within five (5) working days of receipt of the decision, unless mutually agreed otherwise. Both parties will then proceed as outlined in the fifth step.
(b)	Fifth Step: Any disagreement, grievance or dispute arising under the Agreement which is not settled to the satisfaction of either the Union or the Company under the provisions of this Article shall, upon written notice of either party, be submitted to an Arbitration Board which shall be bound only by the terms of this Agreement. The Board shall consist of one member named by the Union, one member named by the Company, these members to be named within ten (10) working days of notice of intention to proceed to arbitration by either party. The third member of the Board, who shall be the chairman, will be agreed upon by the two nominees. In the event of failure to agree on the chairman within ten (10) working days then he shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour of the respective province. The person appointed by the Minister of Labour shall not be a civil servant and must be impartial.
Any expense incurred as a result of the appointment of chairman shall be borne in equal shares by the Company and the Union.
Decisions of the Arbitration Board shall be determined by a majority of the members of the Board and such decision is final and binding on the parties hereto.
5
(c)	The fourth step may be eliminated where deemed desirable by both parties in the interest of an expeditious settlement.
(d)	The aggrieved employee or employees may be present or not, by mutual agreement between the Company and the Grievance Committee.
(e)	Grievances may be submitted in writing in any step of the Grievance Procedure should either party consider it desirable.
(f)	Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory Holidays shall not be considered as "working days" wherever this phrase occurs in this Article.
7-3. When a Grievance which involves an error in the proper earnings of an employee is subsequently settled and, as a result of such settlement, the wages of an employee are increased or adjusted, such increase or adjustment shall be made retroactive to the date on which the error in earnings was made. If the date cannot be established then the adjustment shall be effective the date the grievance was laid, or such other date as may be agreed upon.
7-4. (a) When the Company deems it necessary to discipline an employee they shall have the Union Steward present. If the employee or employees concerned feel they have been unjustly dealt with they shall grieve within three (3) working days. In the case of suspension or dismissal the Union Steward and Chief Steward shall be present. In the case of dismissal the procedure shall be as in 4 (b).
(b)	If an employee is dismissed for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with he shall, within four (4) working days from receipt of notice of dismissal, notify the Grievance Committee who shall, within one (1) working day, notify the Company in writing. The dismissal shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the Grievance Procedure beginning with the Third Step. If subsequently it is decided that the
6
employee was unjustly dismissed, he shall be reinstated in his former position and shall be paid for this period during which he has not worked as if he had not been dismissed, or granted such lesser compensation as seems fair under the circumstances.
7-5. When settlement is reached at any stage of these proceedings such decision shall be final and binding. It is understood that no decision will be made unless representatives of the Local Union be present.
7-6. (a) No Cessation of Work: It is agreed there shall be no strike by or lockout of employees affected by this Agreement during the life of this Agreement, nor shall a strike vote of the members be taken during the aforementioned period or during the course of negotiations with the Company for renewal or extension thereof until some form of conciliation procedure has been gone through.
(b) Slowdowns: It is agreed that the Union and its members individually and collectively will not, during the term of this Agreement, cause, permit, or take part in any slowdown or other curtailment or restriction of production or interference with work in or about the Company's plants
I I IIOOO,
n order to facilitate the grievance proce ,	„
a temporary transfer, of less than one weeks duration, the Department Steward shall be the lagLperson transferred out of the department prbvid'.ng the Steward can adequately perform the work which remains to be done in the Department. If the transfer is to be one week or more in duration then seniority shall prevail and the Steward shall be transferred out according to seniority and the Union shall appoint and notify the Company of the name of an acting Department Steward.
7-8. Pending settlement of any grievance, the employee shall faithfully perform such duties as are assigned him by his foreman or by a Superintendent.
mises
7
7-9. The Company must give the local union notice of the suspension, written warning or discharge of any employee, and the reasons, on the day such action is taken. The Company will provide the union with confirmation in writing of any disciplinary action taken. Failure to do so within forty-eight (48) hours (two working days) of such action shall render the discipline null and void.
7-10. It is agreed that if the Chief Steward or President or their designated representative of the local attend a meeting with the Company concerning dismissal or suspension occurring on the night shift they will be paid a minimum of one (1) hour, or for the time actually spent at the regular hourly rate	,
Article 8 — WAGES
8-1. (a) Effective date of ratification, retroactive to April 1, 1988, the base rate shall be increased by 40 cents to $13.42 per hour.
(b)	Effective April 1, 1989 increase the base rate by 45 cents to $1^?87 per hour.
(c)	Effective April 1, 1990 increase the base rate by 50 cents to $14.37 per hour.
(d)	Starting Rate: Amend by adding: "Effective date of ratification all new employees shall be paid a starting rate of $8.00 per hour. Automatic increases of 1/3 the difference between $8.00 per hour and the plant base rate shall be granted uponthe completion of 52, and 104 weeks worked. At the completion of 156 weeks worked the base rate shall apply.''
(e)	The starting rate for employees hired prior to the date of ratification (Aug. 22, 1988) will be 75% of the base rate.'Automatic increases of 5% of the base rate will be granted on the completion of 6, 12, 16 and 20 month's service. After 2 year'sservice, the base rate shall be paid. 8-2. (a) Fulltime employees whose schedule calls for work on calendar Saturdays and/or Sundays shall be paid one
8
and one-half times their regular rat^ for all scheduled hours
W??rt<ed on such days and those/hourfi shall be considered
as scheduled hours at regulqr/ates for the purpose of the guarantee. gaxtctijTie workers^shall receive a premium of twenty (20) cents perKour for hours worked at regularrates on calendar Saturdays and a premium of thirty (30) cents per hour for hours worked at regular rates on calendar Sundays. Such premium shall not be considered a part of the employees basic rate.
(b) Classification of jobs and wage rates presently used in the plant shall continue in force, subject to any amendments which may be agreed upon. Additions or changes to present wage schedules due to changes in plant operations or changes in work performed on a job A, shall be the subject of collective bargainipg.-between theft, 'C Company and the Union. Any new job rates agreed to shall be retroactive to the date on which the new job began.
8-3.- Where any employee regularly performs two or more jobs a composite rate shall be established. In the determining of a composite rate, the two highest base rates shall be used. The highest rate shall be used at the actual time and the second highest rate for the remainder of the time worked. When an employee spends 50% or more of his time on a higher rated job then the highest base rate shall become the job rate.
8-4. When an employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job for more than one (1) hour he shall receive the higher rate while doing so, but if required temporarily to fill a lower rated job he shall retain his regular job rate. The employee mentioned above will not be required to be qualified.
A probationary employee shall receive the job rate for the work ^ which he is assigned when he becomes qualified, but such qualifying period shall not be longer than six (6), weeks.
8-5. A gang leader in charge of a section of a department not exceeding five (5) in number shall have his regular rate 9
increased to five (5) cents above the highest regular job rate of the gang on which he is in charge. If his section is in excess of five (5) men he shall be paid ten (10) cents per hour above the highest regular job rate of the gang of which he is in charge. Gang leaders shall be appointed by the Plant Superintendent or his designated representative and the Union shall be notified five (5) working days prior to the effective date of the appointment, except in the case of temporary appointment for such things as sickness, holidays, etc. The position of the gang leader may be terminated at any time by the Company or relinquished voluntarily by the incumbent. No gang leader shall hire, lay off, suspend, discharge, exercise other discipline or, except upon direction of a member of management, 'transfer employees to other departments or reduce hours. Posted gang leaders whose position is terminated by the Company or relinquished voluntarily by the employee shall have his job rate handled as under Article 8, section 7(a) or 7(b).
The Company shall provide an upd^“ ,|iot of Gang Leaderstothe Union.
8-6. Instruction or assistance in training , yee may be given by any supervisory officer of the Company or by any employee designated by the Plant Superintendent or department foreman.
8-7. (a) If, due to lack of work, an employee is transferred for a period of less than twelve (12) weeks to work where the job rate is lower, he shaN retairUiisjogular job rate while so doing. At the expiration'^ twelve (12) consecutive weeks the lower job rate shall prevail, and the employee shall cease to have any rights to retyrn to his prior posted job unless on ajiew.posting. J 1 '' ~ I
(b)	If anemployee is transferred to a lower rated job on a job postingorattheemployee'srequest,thenthe lower rate of pay shall apply immediately.
8-8. Each employee shall receive a night shift premium of
10
thirty (30) cents per hour for all hours worked between six
(6)p.m. and six (6)a.m.
An employee whose schedule calls for work to commence at any time other than between 6:30 a.m. and 9:30 a.m. inclusive shall receive an off shift premium of thirty (30) cents per hour for all hours between 4 p.m. and 8 a.m. and for hours in excess of his scheduled hours occurring immediately after 8 a.m.	uj,,? .•;	,
Effective the first full pay week following June 1, 1983,1 amend Article 8-8 to provide for thidLy.Jiye (36)'cenfs”pep hour in place of the existing thirty (30) certs Sc hour. ;/ Effective April 1, 1990 increase the night shift premium, to forty (40) cents per hour.
8-9. The Company shall provide each employee with an itemized calculation weekly of all earnings and deductions including holiday pay and other adjustment cheques. The Company agrees to distribute the pay at the various establishments as follows, unless mutually agreed otherwise:
Saskatoon — Thursday in the Cafeteria during the lunch period.
Where a recognized paid holiday falls during the week, the Company will distribute the pay on Friday.
8-10. Over-rates: With job rates in effect, it is recognized that some employees will have been receiving rates of pay which are in excess of those established. The Company agrees to protect former rates by accepting "over-rates" which shall be in effect so long as the incumbent remain on the particular job.
Should an employee be transferred to a lower rated job at his own request, the lower rate will be effective immediately. If, however, the transfer is involuntary, the difference between the former job rate and his over-rate will be added to the new job rate.
If a transfer to a higher rated job is involved, the over-rate will be reduced by the difference between the former and the new job rate.
11
It is understood that any future increases in the bracket value of a job or increase in job increment will be applied against the over-rates until such time as they have been eliminated.
8-	11. An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if, as a result of such injury, he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department, but, if such is not possible, then by a Company representative. Necessary transportation on day of injury will be provided by the Company.
Article 9 - HOURS OF WORK
9-	1	(a) For the purpose of calculating if overtime is
payable, the Company shall set out an hours of work schedule and negotiate with the Union When management deems it necessary to put on an additional shift they will notify the Union in writing to this effect giving all pertinent details such as department, proposed schedule and number of people involved If a maintenance man (mechanic, millwright, electrician, etc ) is necessary this will be included in the notification, along with the proposed date of the commencement of this shift It is then the Union's responsibility to acknowledge this notice, in writing, either approving or requesting a meeting with the Company for further discussions or negotiations The acknowledgement must be made prior to the date given for establishment of the shift If not, the Company shall consider the shift approved
The schedule of hours may vary from department to department but shall not total more than forty (40jjor any payroll week and must not exceed more than eight (8) hours per day Monday through Friday except where otherwise mutually agreed upon ; j ^ t /,
12 '
(b) Should the Company require overtime to be worked the department foreman shall canvass the employees as to their individual wishes. Overtime shall rotate on the basis of senior qualified person in the department being given first opportunity through to junior qualified person in the department. When this rotation is completed, another rotation shall begin. If any person is inadvertently missed, he shall be given the first opportunity the next time overtime is required. When it is necessary to go out of the department for overtime, the above procedure shall be followed.
9-1. (c) All time worked before or after the above schedule of hours shall be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) timesthe employee's regular rate of pay. Ifby necessity, an hourly rated employee is required fo work in excess of 13 hours in the 24 hour period commencing with the Tiorrriai start of the employees shift, he shall be paid double time for such additional hours. -3 ■' /■/	■
(d)	The Union agrees to co-operate with the Management in getting necessary overtime work done.
(e)	The Management agrees that overtime work shall be
kept to a minimum. It is further agreed that overtime work ShglLbe voluntary-and that no employee shall be compelled to work overtime or shall be discriminated against for refusal to work overtime.	4^ ~/
9-2. Regardless of the schedule of hours, regular day workers shall be paid time and one-half their regular hourly rate for all work performed after 6 p.m. Monday through Friday. Regular day workers are defined as those whose shift commences between 6:30 a.m. and 9:30 a.m.
9-3. (a) Weekly hours of work shall be as reasonable as practicable over the entire plant. A day shall mean any period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours.
(b) When, due to a shortage of work in the plant, it is necessary to send part of the employees in a department home with less than eight (8) and/or forty (40) hours, then
13
the senior employees, if they desire, may choose to go home with short hours, as long as the employees remaining are capable of adequately performing the work that remains to be done.
9-4. (a) Time and one-half the regular rate shall be paid to employees for all hours worked on Saturday except where work regularly falls on Saturday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid time and one-half the regular hourly rate if he works on his day off in lieu of Saturday.
(b)	Double.the regular hourly rate shall be paid to all employees for work perform£d_on Sunday except where the work regularly falls on Sunday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid double the regular hourly rate if he works on his day off in lieu of Sunday. 3 I 'Q-'C?
(c)	For the purpose of the two foregoing sections in this clause, an employee's first day off shall be considered his Saturday, and his second day off his Sunday.
9-5. (a) Eleven (11) paid holidays shall be recognized as per the following list which is effective for the life of this contract;	,4"	> g
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS:
Good Friday .......
Victoria Day.......
Canada Day ........
August Civic Holiday
Labour Day.........
Thanksgiving Day...
Remembrance Day ..
Christmas Day......
Boxing Day.........
.....01 April 1988
..... 23 May 1988
.....01 July 1988
...01 August 1988
05 September 1988 .... 10 October 1988 , 11 November 1988
26	December 1988
27	December 1988
1989
New Years Day........................ 02 January 1989
Good Friday .........................24 March 1989
14
Victoria Day.......
Canada Day ........
August Civic Holiday
Labour Day.........
Thanksgiving Day...
Remembrance Day ..
Christmas Day......
Boxing Day.........
..... 22 May 1989
.... 30 June 1989
.. 07 August 1989
04 September 1989 .... 09 October 1989 10 November 1989
25	December 1989
26	December 1989
1990
New Years Day......
Good Friday .......
Victoria Day.......
Canada Day ........
August Civic Holiday
Labour Day.........
Thanksgiving Day...
Remembrance Day ..
Christmas Day......
Boxing Day.........
.. 01 January 1990
...As per Calendar
..... 21 May 1990
..... 02 July 1990
.. 06 August 1990
03 September 1990 .... 08 October 1990 12 November 1990
25	December 1990
26	December 1990
1991
New Years Day......................... 01 January 1991
Effective January 1, 1987, one floating or Personal Day / shall be granted each calendar year
A Personal Day (floating holiday)shall be grante^ at any time subject to the requirements of the business; but the Company will make a sincere effort to grpnt the Personal Day on the date requested by the eheployee senior employees in each department being given preference The allotment for the Personal Day will be 1/8 or 12 5%
Personal Day Schedule Sheets will be issued along with the Vacation Schedule Sheets Each employee is to choose a number corresponding to the day of the calendar week
15
they want off. (day 1 - Sunday, day 2 ■ Monday, , . day 1 -Saturday). The Personal Day must be taken prior to January of the following year.
The personal day chosen may be changed by mutual agreement between the Department Foreman and the individual employee provided due consideration is given to demands of the business.
To become eligible, all new employees hired after the date of ratification, must have completed their probationary period by June 30th of the year in which the personal day is to be taken.
The company shall pay to each employee who is not exempt from the weekly pay guarantee as set out in Article
10-1(a) and who has earnings on the payroll in the calendar week in which the above recognized paid holidays occur, eight (8) hours pay at his regular hourly job rate. This clause will not apply to shift engineers and temperature men who are paid according to the following section entitled Regular Shift Engineers.
Regardless of the terms set out above, new employees shall not be entitled to payment for a recognized paid holiday unless they have worked prior to the recognized paid holiday.	V rC?
Employees who work on the recognized paid holiday shall be paid atjwo (2) times his regular hourly rate for all hours worked on such recognizedpaid holidays.
In the case of a recognized paid holiday being moved to a day other than the calendar date, either through legislation or through agreement between the parties to this Collective Agreement, then the date to which the holiday is moved shall become the recognized paid holiday.
Employees with seniority who are not posted employees and who receive the same rate for all of the hours the department works in a week in which a recognized paid holiday falls shall receive that rate as his regular hourly job rate for the recognized paid holiday.
16
Regular Shift Engineers
Regular shift engineers shall work a 12 hour continuous rotating shift in accordance with the Mutual Agree/nent dated 29 March 1985.	/
The following shall apply only to regular/lhiftrenglneers and temperature man who are on a continuPU^Ihifttover-ing a seven (7) day calendar week and are Wwifid t& work five (5) shifts in a calendar week in which a recognized paid holiday occurs.
The shift engineers and temperature man referred to above shall be paid at two (2) times his regular hourly job rate for all hours worked on his scheduled shift that corresponds to the day on which the recognized paid holiday falls for a regular day shift employee, i.e. — One who works Monday through Friday.
These regular shift engineers and temperature man shall be entitled to a day off to be taken at a later date coinciding, wherever possible, with the wishes of the employee as long as the efficient operation of the department is not interferred with.
Payment of eight (8) hours at his regular hourly job rate for the recognized paid holiday will be paid to him in the payroll week in which the day off is actually taken. All days off must be taken by the expiration date of this Collective Agreement. If any regular shift engineers and temperature man doesn't receive his full quota of days off by the expiration of this Collective Agreement, he shall be paid for any such recognized paid holidays he missed as though he worked them but the employee does not have the right to refuse days off that are offered to him by the Company. Cases of disagreement on this to be discussed by the committee and the Management.
9-5. (b) For the Purpose of Clarification:
Employees who work shifts other than Monday through Friday, the following shall apply:
17
His first shift shall be considered his Monday, his second shift shall be considered his Tuesday, his third shift shall be considered his Wednesday, his fourth shift shall be considered his Thursday and his fifth shift shall be considered his Friday. His first day off shall be considered his Saturday and his second day off shall be considered his Sunday.
(c)	An employee who is absent for reason of sickness or compensable accident during the period in which a recognized paid holiday occurs, shall receive the difference between his compensation or sickness indemnity and his regular rate of pay for such recognized paid holidays as occur during such absence, with limitations as defined in the weekly indemnity plan. The adjustment will be made as soon as the necessary information is available to the payroll department.
When a recognized paid holiday falls during a three (3) day sick pay waiting period of an employee eligible for weekly indemnity he shall be paid eight (8)hours' pay at his regular rate of pay for each such holiday.
(d)	Accredited Union delegates who are absent on leave of absence to attend to official Union business, e.g. International, National and Provincial Conventions, contract negotiations and labour movement meetings at which they are official delegates, shall receive eight (8) hours pay at their regular rate for Statutory Holidays which occur during such leave of absence.
9-6. If a paid Statutory Holiday falls within the vacation period of the employee, the Company will allow the employee concerned an additional day off with pay. This additional day off to be taken in conjunction with the employee's vacation, on either the last work day preceding his vacation or the first work day immediately following his vacation. In case of two (2) holidays being consecutively involved, these shall be taken as the last two (2) days immediately preceding his vacation or the first two (2) days immediately following his vacation or may be split, one (1)
18
day immediately preceding and one (1) day immediately following his vacation. This is to be arranged in advance by mutual agreement between the foreman and the employee.
9-7. Employees when/tralled-tor-work shall be guaranteed forvj^f-trows-pay for that day at their regular job rate. Under this provision, workers shall not leave of their own accord when work is available. For days outside of employee's regularschedule and holidays he shall receive the guaranteed four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rate.
9-8. Any hourly rated employee '»,hri_ aftfir lPP'/inq th° Company's premises, is specially called in at any time outside his normal working hours shall be through when the emergency is over, but shall nevertheless be paid minimum of four (4) hours at the regular rate or for the
hours he acftraflywtfrked at the applicable premium rate, whichever is the greater.	Q- ^ jO -j
9-9. Employees shall not be required, except in cases of emergency, to work more than five (5) hours without the first meal period, and more than five (5) hours without the second meal period, and more than five (5) hours without the third meal period. The employee must give a recognizable amount of work (10 minutes) beyond five (5) hours to qualify for the second meal .period and the employee must give the same amount of work (10 minutes) beyond five (5) hours to qualify for the third meal period. The second and third meal period shall be 1/2 hour on Company time and the meal shall be supplied free of charge by thg,Cgmpany. In case of tr.uckdrivers and other employees working away from the plant a cash equivalent of five dollars ($5.00)will be added to hisgrossearningsfor
9-10. (a) Employees required to work more tha hours without a meal period shall be compensated at one and one-half times the hourly rate for all times worked in
that fiscal week.
19
excess of five (5) hours until a meal period is granted. Employees engaged in continuous shift operations shall be exempt from this clause, but shall be entitled to a lunch period of thirty (30) minuteson Company time. In the event of an earlier than normal start the Company shall have the right to change the time of the meal period in order to avoid the double penalty.
(b) The Company agrees to provide a meal lor employees brought in to work prior to their regular scheduled starting time, provided that they are called in a minimum of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours before the regular starting time. Such meals to be eaten on Company time at regular rates.
9-11. (a) Continuous shift operators shall be given forty-eight (48) hours notice of change of shift. Continuous shift operators shall have a minimum of twelve (12) hours off between scheduled shifts. Should his schedule call for less than twelve (12) hours off then he shall be compensated at double his regular hourly rate until the twelve (12) hours has been reached.
(b)	Single shift employees shall be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of change of shift.
(c)	If a schedule is changed without sufficient notice, the employee will be paid one and one-half times his regular rate for all hours worked outside the previous schedule until the expiry of the required notice, and such hours shall be considered as scheduled hours at regular rates for the purpose of the guarantee as set out in Article 10.
Provided the employee is given sufficient notice on change of shift, the employee will assume the new shift and will be paid the premiums applicable to that shift.
9-12. (a) The Company will allow the employees time for the sharpening of tools, knives, etc. This time to be handled by the foreman of the department, the same as any other work assignment. A qualified operator shall be available as needed to sharpen knives of those desiring this service.
20
(b) The Company shall furnish all knives, scabbards, steels. whetstones, triers, meat trimmer hooks and overhauling hooks where necessary for the performance of the work by the employees and shall establish regulations in respect hereto. The Company agrees to maintain its present practice of furnishing heavy tools. All tools and equipment furnished shall remain Company property.
9-13. A fifteen (15) minute rest period will be granted twice in each shift, midway before lunch and midway after lunch, provided that each work period is of more than two and one-half (2%) hours. A rest period of fifteen (15) minutes shall be granted in overtime provided the overtime shift exceed two and one-half (2%)hours after the return from the second meal period. Employees are entitled to the fifteen (15) minute rest breaks scheduled, provided the employees are working at commencement of each scheduled break.
9-14. It is agreed that, except in case of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for time off during their shift. Employees, will not abuse this privilege of using the washroom.
Article 10 - WEEKLY GUARANTEE 2. U
Z.
10-1 The Company agrees to guarantee a rriinimum of thirty-seven (37) hours per week or pay in lieu of work exclusive of overtime and night shift premium, except as hereinafter provided.
(a)	An exception of the above rule occurs in the case of gangs hired on a day basis and normally providing employment for a period of less than six (6) consecutive days; examples: cured hide takeup, supply unloaders, wreckers.
(b)	An employee who is absent from work for all personal reasons on any day that his gang works, shall have his guarantee for the week concerned reduced by the number of hours of work which he missed by such absence.
21
(c)	An employee who is excused from work for any part of a day, for any personal reason, shall have his guarantee reduced for the week concerned by the number of hours of work which he missed by such absence.
(d)	An employee who starts after the first of the payroll week shall be guaranteed for such starting week that traction of the guarantee which the number of hours remaining in the payroll week is of forty (40) hours.
(e)	Employees on layqff notice shall be entitled to their guaranteed payment for the week in which notice is given and should notice extend into the subsequent week then the guaranteed payment for such week shall be that fraction of the guaranteed hours pay which the normal hours for those days of the notice occurring in such week is of forty (40).
(f)	When it is apparent that a gang is going to work less than the guaranteed hours in any one week. It is permissible to use all of the gang on other work in order to avoid the guaranteed time penalty, reasonable consideration being given to change in working conditions, ability and seniority.
(g)	If only part of the employees in any gang receiving guaranteed pay can be utilized with reasonable consideration to ability. seniority and working conditions they shall be entitled to any guaranteed pay due to their gang plus the extra time they put in. Each employee shall perform the task assigned to him conscientiously if he fails to do so his guarantee shall be reduced by the number of hours he lost by such a refusal.
(h)	The guarantee shall be the same in the holiday weeks as all others. Pay received for any public holidays or in case of off-shifts, day in lieu of, shall be considered as earnings for the purpose of calculating the guarantee, unless such pay is for hours which fall outside an employee's schedule.
(i)	In order to meet the demands of the business the Company will hire part-time workers excluded from the
22
provisions of this Article for work of twenty-lour (24) hours
or less in a payroll week, provided the Union is notified
when the employees are hired Such part-time workers will be the first employees subject to layoff in event of a layoff occurring in the plant.	^ ft- /
Part-time grnployees,--tlmt4s employees employed for 24 hours weekly or less^and casual employees, that is those employe3~'for1ess'”than one week, are eligible for membership in the Union.
Part-time and casual employees will not be used where it is practical to employ full time employees and, except as otherwise agreed with the President or Chief Steward, parttime employees will not be employed for the purpose of reducing overtime unless that part-time work is required on a regular basis. Where the work performed by part-time or casual employees can be satisfactorily combined to permit the employment of a full time employee, this will be done provided the employee can satisfactorily perform the work.
The Union may submit, and the Company will consider, alternative means of doing the required work rather than employ part-time or casual employees and such matters may be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures.
Article 11 — SENIORITY
11-1. Seniority shall be defined as the length of an employee's service with the bargaining unit at the individual plants, calculated as the elapsed time from the day he was first employed, unless his seniority was broken, in which event such calculation shall be from the date he returned tg_ work following the last break in his seniority.
11-2. Employeesshall not acquire any seniority rights until fr'Cr) they have accumulated fifty-f've fssj-mnrfcing riaya service at which time they are entitled to plant seniority from the original day of employment.
11-3. Seniority lists shall be revised and brought up to date
23
every six (6) months and the Company shall supply sufficient copies to the Union to cover their executives and Union Stewards.	2-
11-4. (a) In the bargaining unit the fillipg_pf Varaonies shall be based on ability and seniutily. Ability being sufficient, after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. A reasonable trial shall not exceed six (6) weeks. However, if mutually agreed, this period may be extended a maximum of two (2) weeks. Employees shall receive the applicable job rates provided for in the wage rate schedule for the job or jobs they have been posted or appointed to when they become qualified.
The word qualified, as used in this Agreement, shall be interpreted to mean ability to regularly perform the job without instruction or assistance.
If it is obvious that a person cannot qualify, and is causing serious loss or damage to product or equipment, he may be removed at any time. Employees failing to qualify will become a "Floater", (i.e.) a person without a regular job posting.
(b) Vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be posted for five (5) working days to give employees with seniority ample time to apply. In any case there shall not be more than two postings per employee per calendar year. In the case that no application is received for a posting, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment of a floater and the appointee shall obtain posted status upon qualifying in the normal fashion as specified in 4(a). An appointment to a job shall not constitute one of the two job postings per calendar year. Transfers to jobs will be made within ten (10) working days from the date the posting was awarded, with the proviso that wherever this proves impossible, suitable arrangements will be arrived at after consultation with the union. When a posted employee is laid off, he will be deemed to have lost his posted job and shall return upon recall to any work available as a floater. Where an employee loses his posting due to a layoff or through his
24
job being discontinued as set out in Article 8 section 7(a) he shall be allowed an additional posting to compensate him for the posting lost thru such layoff or job discontinuance.
(c) Postings dealing with the training of skilled mechanical tradesmen shall be dealt with as per the terms of the Mechanical Progression Plan in effect and this Plan shall form a part of the contract.
11-5. Seniority service records shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited and there shall be no obligation to rehire when an employee:
(a)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or is discharged for cause.
(b)	After being laid off by the Company, fails to report to work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The present method cf contact by telephone, or telegram, to the employee at the last known address shall constitute a reasonable effort on the part of the Company and, if within two (2)working days of receipt of such notice, the employee fails to report for duty, or advise the Company that he will report within five (5) working days, the Company shall be entitled to assume that the said employee left the Company service voluntarily.
(c)	Has been off the payroll of the Company for a period longer than the time allowed in the following schedule:
Length of Seniority	Length of
11-6. Absence from work because of accident, sickness, or leave of absence shall not break continuity of seniority rights and an employee shall return to the position held prior to the absence or to one of equal rating, provided he is able to perform the work that is available within the customary trial period of not more than six (6) weeks. After an absence of five years, seniority shall cease unless the
At Date of Separation
Less than one year One year and over
Allowable Time Off Payroll
.....Six months
2 years maximum
25
employee remains on temporary Saskatchewan Workers' Compensation Benefits or The Company Long Term Disability Plan. As well should the employee find other employment, seniority will cease immediately.
11-7. In case of a reduction in the working force the order of layoff shall be as follows:
(a)	Part-time and casual employees.
(b)	Probationary employees, i.e. those with less than fifty
(50)working days service.	-7 { ^ £
(c)	Those with plant seniority. 2In the latter case, seniorityshall be_the_determining factor
foi
provided the senior operator, after a reasonable time to qualify, is capable of doing the work performed by an employee with less seniority, except where immediate essential qualifications are necessary for the efficient. operation of the plant. In such cases the Company will dis-cus@he matter with the Union. Any disagreement will be subject to the Grievance Procedure beginning/at the Third Step	'i ] ^
11-8 (a) In cases ojjncreases in the working force, rehirinq shall be in the reye£Se3r-deao-taaLaLlayofts The Company shall advise the Union two (2) days in advance when a layoff is about to take place and shall give the Union a list of employees to be laid off or rehired In cases where it is necessary to secure workers in less time than the required notice, the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recall the next senior employee and so on down the list until the vacancies are filled However should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time, he shall be given work for which the next senior employee was recalled The two (2) day advance notice shall not apply to temporary recalled employees (Section 8-c) or casual employees (b) In case of layoff, other than in the event of emergencies herein referred to, employees shall be given one (1)
26
y)
working day's notice for every completed six (6) months
seniority With a minimum notice oftwo r2Jworking days Iii
the case of an emergency due to causes beyond the Com- i pany's control which results in the closing of a part or the i whole of the plant, employees shall be given one (1) calen- I dar day's notice for every completed six (6) months j seniority with a maximum-notice of five1 (5) working days j and with a minimum notice of two (2) working days, but ' such two (2) days shall be exclusive of Sunday If the Company determines that additional work, not to exceed three (3) days, is available at the time any layoff is to become effective, then the notice shall be deemed to be extended for the period represented by such additional days of work (c) Employees with seniority may be temporarily recalled for not less than three (3) working days and not more than ten (10) working days as casual help with no layoff notice given, provided that this shall not be used as discrimination to any employee and provided that the employee and the Union is informed that such work is of a temporary nature When the ten (10) days are worked consecutively or have accumulated, the layoff notice shall apply These casual employees shall not be covered by the guarantee until the ten (10) days have been reached Employees who refuse recall under the provisions of this clause will not be allowed to bump but shall have to await another recall
11-9 When reducing staff in a department day, afternoon, night and shifts other than those scheduled Monday through Friday shall each be considered as separate shifts and that reduction of staff will be decided on the basis of these separate shifts
11-10 When it is necessary to transfer employees the following procedures shall be followed
(a)	in the case of permanent transfers, subject to the provisions of Article 8, Section 7, the order of transfer shall be,
(1) Floaters in the department concerned
27
(2) Posted employees in the department concerned in order of seniority beginning with the junior posted.
(b)	In the case of temporary transfers the order of transfer shall be,
(1)	Floaters in the department.
(2)	Posted employees in the department in order of seniority beginning with the most junior.
(c)	In the case of a temporary transfer which is required to fill a specific vacancy where due to the importance of the job special skills, training or ability is required, the order of transfer shall be,
(1)	Qualified floaters in the department.
(2)	Junior qualified posted employees in the department.
An employee who, because of previous experience in a department, is temporarily transferred to that department on a repetitive basis, may register his objections to such repetitive transfers in which case the company will, subject to seniority, make a reasonable effort to obtain a replacement who can perform the work satisfactorily, or to train another employee who possesses suitable qualifications and can qualify reasonably quickly for such temporary transfers.
11-11. In cases of gang reductions or increases, an employee may elect to take a layoff or continue to be laid off if it is mutually agreed that the work which is available could prove detrimental to the health of the employee. 11-12. Employees, not to exceed one (1) percent of the number of employees in the bargaining unit at each plant, who are appointed or elected to do business for the Union shall, upon written application, be granted leave of absence .yyjthout paf'to attend to such business. SucTTenrpfoyees shall continue to accumulate seniority for the period covered by this Agreement, and upon giving the Company one (1) week's notice in writing of their intention to return to work, shall be reinstated in the job held prior to the leave of absence or its equivalent, at the same rate of pav2_
11-13. Employees whom the Company wishes to train for supervisory, technical or commercial positons may be retained in the employment without being subject to the layoff provision of this Agreement. The number of such employees on the protected list shall not exceed one (1) percent of the number of employees in the bargaining unit.
The Chief Steward of the Union is to be advised of the names of any person on this protected list.
11-14. Employees shall notify the Company at once of all changes of address and telephone numbers; temporary or permanent. Failure of the employee to do so will relieve the Company of any financial responsibilitiesthe Company may have under this Agreement. The Company is to be notified as to change of address and telephone number through the Personnel office. Employees are 'expected to provide the Personnel office and Health Centre with the name and phone number of a responsible person who will be notified in the event of an emergency.
11-15. A female employee with twelve (12) months of service with the Company, who applies in writing for a leave of absence priorto her sixth month of pregnancy shall he granted a maternity leave of up to twenty-six (26) weeks?^'-The application for leave will be accompanied by written;. • (_ confirmation ofthe pregnancy fromthe employee'sattend-ing physician which will outline the employee's expected due date and her physical ability to continue performing her assigned job. The application will indicate the expected date of birth, the commencement date of the leave, and the employee's expected return date. The application for maternity leave must be made at least two (2) weeks prior to the commencement of the leave.
Maternity leave may commence at anytime prior to confinement but in no case will the maternity leave be extended beyond eighteen (18) weeks following the date of birth and in no case will more than twenty-six (26) weeks of leave be granted.
29
Prior to the expiration of such leave of absence, the employee shall signify in writing, supported by a Doctor's certificate of fitness, that she wishes to return to work and in such case, she will be reinstated within one (1) week, provided she has the necessary seniority and is able to perform the required work satisfactorily Seniontyjyill ac-cymiitate-during such leave of absence An employee,- (0 who holds a posting shall be reinstated to her former job If her former job has disappeared,then subject to seniority, 1 the employee will be assigned to one of equal rating
When a female employee who has been granted a pregnancy leave under the above clause suffers a miscarriage or for some other medical reason has a premature termination of pregnancy said employee shall then be considered as having been off on sickness and upon recovery and tendering a doctor's certificate that she is able and fit to return to regular duties will be reinstated in her former job or one of equal rate Female employees shall notify the Company prior to the leave as to the disposition of their vacation credits
Article 12 — VACATIONS
12 t (a) The Company agrees subject to the provisions set forth within the following sections to grant the following vacations with pay to regular employees covered by this Agreement
Length of Vacation
O ■!	■ ■■ jl 3 weeks
...... . .‘J. v . . . 4weeks
. c . . . 5 weeks j. . . ... ; .ijr. . 6weeks
(b) Calculation of Holiday Pay Holiday Pay will be calculated on the following basis the number of weeks he is entitled to at his regular hourly rate or two percent (2%)
30
Length of Service
After 1 year, Saskatchewan After 10years, All Plants After 20years, All Plants After 25years All Plants
of his gross annual earnings, for each week of vacation
entitlement. whichever is the greater
The regular hourly rate referred to above shall be the employee's regular hourly rate during the same period that the total earnings were calculated. In case mor£ than one rate is involved, his average rate will be calculated.
1IB 2 Every plant employee becomes eligible for vacation upon completion of one year's service.
12-3. (a) Employees absent for reasons of sickness and/or accident, who return to work for 30 working days, following these phases within the year shall be entitled to annual vacations as set out in Article 12, Clause 1 and pay for such vacation shall be provided for in Clause 3 (b).
(b) In the case of sickness and non-compensable accident certified by a practising physician, an employee, upon his return to service with the Company, shall receive service credit for each week of such absence not to exceed twenty-six (26) weeks, as if earnings had been received, on the basis of forty hours per week at his regular rate of pay. The above shall be confined to one year's vacation rights for any one illness. An employee returning to work after a compensable accident shall be granted up to one year's vacation credits on the basis of forty hours per week at his regular hourly rate.
12-4! Employees will be paid their holiday pay on the day prior to proceeding on holidays. In special circumstances, upon application by the employee, holiday pay will be paid up to 14 days in advance.
12-5. (a) Vacation may be granted at any time subject to the requirements of the business, but the Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacations at the time requested by the employees, senior employees in each department being given preference. Employees eligible lor vacation shall be notified of their vacation period as far in advance as possible. The Company agrees to vacation allotment of 1 /8th or 12-1/2%.
31
(b)	Where an employee is off on sickness or compensation and is cleared with a doctor's certificate, he shall not be compelled to work any time before going on holidays if his holidays are scheduled for the following week
(c)	Employees who have attained seniority who are laid off shall have the right to choose whether they receive their vacation pay up to date or leave the vacation pay with the Company in order to have a paid vacation at a later date
12-6 Earned vacation privileges not exercised shall be paid il and when an employee quits or is discharged lor cause from service, at a rate equal to the
12-	7 An employee eligible for a fourth, fifth, or sixth week of vacation may, by prior arrangement with his foreman, accumulate his fourth and/or fifth and/or sixth week of vacation fForfTyear'to year to be taken at a later time convenient to tTre^ofrrpany taking into account the wishes cf the employee Such accumulated vacations may be taken only as full weeks or multiples thereof Such vacations will, as far as possible be granted lor the period selected by the employee, but final allocation of such vacations will be left to the Company in order to assure orderly operation cf the plant, and provided that they do not interfere with the scheduling of regular vacations during the current year
Article 13 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
13-	1 Whereas the Company and the Union are committed to ensuring that reasonable effort is made to promote and protect the safety and health of employees, it is agreed that the Company and the Union shall co-operate in establishing, adopting and enforcing rules and practices which promote and protect the occupational health and safety of all employees of the Company
Where deemed necessary, the Company shall provide protective devices and other equipment to properly protect employees from injury and all such devices agreed to by
vacation earned
32
the Company and the Union shall be used by the
First Aid shall be available for employees at all times when emDlovees are working The present practice as regards to the Registered Nurse st	ontinued.
13-2. The Company and the Un	co-operate in
establishing a joint plant safety committee in accordance with Provincial fetjislation which shall be responsible for investigating concerns and resolving problem elating to Occupational Health and Safety.	’/fir I
The Occupational Health and Safety G&J/'tt e shall
J omm p
hold regular meetings and shalUnspect, monitor and make recommendations regarding Occupational Health conditions and safety practices within the plant. The Committee will also function in the education of all employees of the Company regarding Occupational Health and Safety. The Committee will monitor compliance with and make recommendations on applicable health and safety legislation.
13-	3, Health and Safety concerns shall be reported to the foreman of the department where the concern arises. All concerns which cannot be satisfactorily resolved by the foreman may be referred to the Occupational Health and Safety Committee for investigation and evaluation. The Committee will then seek to resolve the issue to the mutual satisfaction of the Company and the Union. If. however, after its' deliberations the Committee is unable to resolve the concern to the satisfaction of either the Company or the Union, then the matter may be referred to the parties to this Agreement through the grievance procedure.
Article 14 — GENERAL
14-	1. The Company will allow necessary time for changing clothes or equipment as necessitated by changing from
employees
33
one job to another where conditions are different enough to warrant it.
14-2. Laundry services for employees shall be maintained on the same basis as at present.
14-3. The Company shall provide bulletin boards for the use of the Union at suitable places on the plant premises. All bulletins shall be submitted to the plant manager for approval before posting.
14-4. All privileges and benefits which are not covered by this Agreement but which are now enjoyed by the employees or the Company, shall remain in effect during the life of this agreement except that gifts, presents or other bonuses shall be at the discretion of the Company.
14-5. In the event of any walkout or stoppage of work the Union shall not do or permit to be done anything by any of its members to prevent power house staff, such as firemen, engineers and an electrician, from continuing all or any part of their regular duties in the service of the Company. Furthermore, the Union shall cooperate and assist the Company in taking reasonable precautions to protect perishable products, but such assistance shall only extend through such period as the Company does no^jjg^pt to restore normal production.	., ■ > ^ .7
14-6. The Company shall make up the clffference between an employee's scheduled hours at his regular hourly rate and the amount he is paid by the government for hours he is required to be away from work onjur^duty. Upon being released from jury duty the employee must report for work.
14-7. The Company shall reimburse the employees for the renewal of necessary licenses required in the performance of their duties.
This is not to include any costs other than the basic cost of the license itself.
14-8. When an employee attends the funeral of an im-
34
nfl-i
mediate relative, he shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his
regular rate for the day of the funeral and two other days to be taken not later than two days following the day of the funeral, provided that such payments are made only in respect to absence from work on his regular work days. For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be one of the following: wife, husband, daughter, son, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, stepmother, stepfather, stepsister, stepbrother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepmother-in-law, stepfather-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, grandson and granddaughter.
14-8. (b) When an employee cannot attend the funeral of an immediate relative because of geographical distance, he shall receive 8 hours pay at his regular rate for the day of the funeral. Such payment will be made only in respect to an absence from work on his regular scheduled work day.
The Company may require the employee to furnish verification of the date of the funeral.
14-9. (a) Launderable outer work clothing, oil-skin aprons, and oil-skin sleeves, specified by the Company as required for work in the departments of each plant will be supplied to employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and shall not be removed from the Company's premises except in the regular performance of duty, and must be returned for new issue or upon separation of the employee. Clothing not returned when worn out or upon transfer or upon separation will be paid for by the employee. Rubber boots and belts specified by the Company as required for work will be supplied to employees.
(b) Employees with more than six (6Jmonths' seniority, who purchase a quilted vest or liner for use on the job, shall receive an allowance of up to $16.00 towards such purchase. Employee to purchase vest and bring in a receipt from which the Company shall reimburse him up to a maximum of $16.00. Employees with less than six
35
months' seniority who so purchase such clothing shall be reimbursed upto $16.00 towards such purchase on attainment of six (6) months' seniority. For a subsequent purchase, employees will again become eligible for this allowance three (3) years from the date of their previous purchase under this provision. Laundering of such clothing shall be the responsibility of the employee.
(c)	Employees with more than six (6) months' seniority who purchase safety footwear for use on the job shall receive an allowance of up to $35.00 towards such purchase. Employees with less than six (6) months' seniority who so purchase such footwear shall be reimbursed up to $35.00 towards such purchase on attainment of six (6) months' seniority. For a subsequent purchase, employees will again become eligible for this allowance one year from the date of their previous purchase under this provision.
Effective April 1, 1989, the $35.00 allowance referred to above shall become a $40.00 safety footwearallowance.
14-10. Tools — Mechanical.
All MaintenanceTradesmenwith seniority shall receive a $65.00 (sixty-five)tool replacement allowance midway each contract year.
14-11. The Union agrees to co-operate with the Company in securing punctual and regular attendance at work and lo do all in its power to eliminate lateness or absence from work on the part of employees for other than necessary reasons.	/'
14-12. No Discrimination. It shalllcontinue to be the policy of the Company and the Union qpt to discriminate.
36
14-13 Leave of absence may be granted to an employee
by the SSmpany for good and sufficient reason upon
application by the employee provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the requirements of the business If leave of absence is for a period of one ( 1) week or more written application shall be submitted by the employees to the Company and, if the leave is granted, it shall be confirmed in writing and a copy thereof sent to the Chief Steward of the Union Seniority shall accumulate through periods of such leave of absence but in no case 'will leave of absence be granted as an extension of holidays If, for any reason, the Union feels that a case merits reconsideration they may discuss the matter with(ti Company	"
14-14 (a) The Company will-gjve hearing -t^sts to alt employees as part of the pre-empl3^i»ernt medical.
(b) No employee with seo.ioritv,.wttLb£...ca.caiifed to-take hearingTeits from the Company, but may do so voluntarily, subject to Provincial legislation
14-15 There will be no charge for cutting and wrapping staff sales
Article 15 — HEALTH AND WELFARE
15-1 The Health and Accident Insurance Plan presently in effect shall be continued as hereinafter amended The current plan shall, as soon as practicable become an in house administered plan to be administered by an official of the Company The plan shall be administered in accordance with generally ac.cepted principles and in accordance with the plan contracts currently in effect in order to provide the Health and Welfare Benefits contained in this Article
However the company shall be free to contract with any insurance carrier for the provision of any benefit contained in this Article if in house administration is not feasible The subject of plan administration may be re-opened for
37
negotiations should a more favorable plan be presented by either party.
15-2. (a) Effectivethe first full pay weekfollowing the date of ratification the Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan isajaxable benefitplan,The weekly indemnity benefits shall beBased nn 60% of the claimant's regular weekly earnings, exclusive of overtime, premiums, etQ^immediately preceding his claim. J ' & &Q
(b) The service for duration of payment is as fnNnws-
1?-18 months service .........................}S weeks
18 months - 5 years service .................. 16 weeks
5-7 years service ............................ 26 weeks
7-10 years service ........................... 34 weeks
10 years service and over .................... 52 weeks
In the case of normal illness a three (3) day waiting period is to be observed; payment of benefits commencing on the fourth day. However, where an employee is hospitalized due to illness or has day surgery within the waiting period or where an employee is unable to work due to a non-compensable accident the waiting period shall be waived.
(c)	The Company agrees to pay the benefits set out in the benefit scale in 2(a) of this ArticleTn'accordance with the service scale set out in 2(c) of this Article and any benefits available to employees under government legislation, or from any other source, shall have no bearing or effect whatsoever on the benefits due to an employee from the Company plan.
(d)	The Company will pay for the first $7-80 of ihe requiredjisk.pay-ptfimiunfr-pe^erna(oyee, with the balance of theT’equired monthly premium sharedegualjy between ^ the company and the employee. •-
(e)	Weekly Indemnity Premium will be deducted on a weekly basis from employees who have earnings in the Payroll week but will cease to be deducted from the eligible
38
employee who is receiving benefits under this plan provided he is medically unable to work	^
./ ' / ' "
15-3 Medicare & Hospitalization The Company will continue to pay the full cost.of Medicare and Hospitalization-premiums-tt'i the1 provinces where such premiums are required, atlftB^present rate schedule If there is an increase in premiums charged for provincial compulsory Medicare and Hospitalization Plans the Company will also pay the additional premium in that province up to a maximum of $5 00 per month for single coverage and$10 00 per month for dependent coverage
In provinces having a compulsory governmental sponsored medical surgical plan, which includes a requirement for doctors' deterrents, the Company will subject to the followingTprovTde coverage for such deterrents The cost of providing this coverage will apply in each province against the $5 00 per month single coverage and the $10 00 per month dependent coverage maximum additional premium liability set out above	__	:u~ £~~	/ .	„
7o#>
15-4 Major Medical Present deductible — single $25 00, family $50.00 per calendar year. When the expenses exceed the above deductible, the plan will pay eighty-five (85) percent of such excess to a maximum of $5,000.00.
In Saskatchewan the $25.00 and $50.00 deductible have been removed and reimbursement is now 100%, except in the case of prescription drugs, in which the deductible are still in effect. Recoverable portion is 85%.
Premiuimof major medical fully paid bythe Company.
15-5. Life Insurance. All eligible employees will be covered for $2,5,000.00 Group Life Insurance. The Company will pay the full nf thp premiums. Coverage will also include a paid u p poficyupon retirement inthe amount of $800.00.	l0C~tOQ
39
Effective April 1, 1989 the Company will introduce an Accidental Death & Dismemberment (A.D. & D.) plan which will provide a maximum benefit of $25,000.00.
15-6. Vision Care. The hJajopMedie^llPlan is extended to provide the following: up to a maximOm of seventy-five ($75.00) dollars for the expenses incurred for eye glasses and/or frames in any twenty-four (24) consecutive months for each insured member.	'"//0
Reimbursement will not be providentor any Expense incurred for sun glasses, safety glasses, or for any form of eye glasses provided for cosmetic or aesthetic purpose.
No deductible or co-insurance applies to the vision care items.
Effective April 1, 1989 amend by increasing vision care coverage to $100.00 every 24 m^n^hs. ^	^^ ^
15-7. The premium cost of the Dental Plan presently in effect will be paid w hy rho^Qompany. The Company is free to contract with the carrier providing the lowest premium for equal benefits. The dental plan allowable expenses will be based on the current Dental Association fee schedule in Provinces where such a schedule exists otherwise on the prevailing schedule.
15-8. The Company agxeae—Hearing ,Aid Benefits to employees for the purchase of hearing aids obtained on the written prescription of a physician certified as an otolaryngologist, not exceeding five hundred ($500.00) dollars per employee during the entire time the employee is insured. with the normal deductible and co-insurance provisions not applying.
15-9. Eligibility. An employee becomes eligible for benefits under the health and welfare sections contained in this Article upon completion of six (6) months of accumulated service.
40
Effective October 1, 1986, employees will become eligible for the Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan after completion of three (3) months of accumulated service.
15-10. Continuation of Benefits Coverage. An insured employee, prior to his 65th birthday, who becomes totally disabled due to sickness, compensable or noncompensable accident will be eligible for continued benefit coverage without payment of further premiums so long as such disability continues. The specific benefits referred to are Group Life Insurance, Dental Care, Vision Care, Major Medical, and Accident^1	amj nicmomhopont
Satisfactory proof certified by a physician must be submitted by the employee, and periodic evidence of continued disability must be furnished upon request, ''/fa (_ This section will come into effect July 1, 1977. Any accrued premiums owing by employees who are off work prior to this date shall be paid by the employee to that date before they qualify for continuation of benefit coverage. The employee will relinquish his job posting after two years of continued disability from the last day worked.
15-11. LONG TERM DISABILITY
Effective June 1, 1983, the Company will arrange to have an insurance carrier provide a Long Term Disability Plan which will include the following provisions:
Full-time employees actively at work on the effective date are eligible for the Plan on attainment of one year's seniority. Employees absent from work on the date they would otherwise have been eligible must return to work and satisfactorily complete two months' full-time work to be eligible.
Long Term Disability benefits will be payable where an employee is unable to perform any employment for remuneration or profit solely by reason of total disability through sickness or accident. The sole determination of cases qualifying for benefits will be made by the insurance
41
company based upon continuing medical evidence of such disability as it considers satisfactory. To qualify, any case involving_aJcohQi or d rug-relat£d-CQaditigns-witf.requir-e-ac-tive supervision by and*'continuing treatment from a rehabilitation centre or a provincially designated institution. Any case involving mental illness will require continued treatment under an approved specialist, and will only be paid in cases. of severe conditions involving personality disorganization (Psychotic conditions). An employee in receipt of Long Term Disability benefits will be subject to the provisions of Article 11-6 of the Collective Agreement. The amount of hrnrfit	Rfjjj-l 'HHH'HH arr month less any
benefit for which the enr I8jr 'll under the Canada Pension Plan Disability Benefit, Workers' Compensation or other government or government sponsored jolan, excluding any pre-existing disability benefit.
Effective April 1, 1986, the amount of benefit referred t<s above for an employee whose benefit commencement data is on or after Aru[ 1, 1986, will be $1,100.00 per month./ The employee will be presumed eligible for such government benefits until satisfactory evidence is presented that his application for them has been denied.
An employee in receipt of a benefit under !he Company's Pension Plan cannot be in receipt of a benefit under the Long Term Disability Plan.
The benefit will commence after the employee has been absent due to the disability for one year or after his sick pay entitlement has expired, whichever is earlier, and will be payable until recovery, actual retirement date, normal retirement date, or death, whichever comes first.
Should an employee return to work after collecting Long Term Disability benefits and subsequently again cease work as a result of the same or a related disability, !he benefit will recommence without a waiting period provided the disability recurred within a year of the employee's return
42
to work; otherwise, the employee will be subject to the normal waiting period before the benefit commences.
Where an employee returns to work under an approved rehabilitation program of up to 24 months, the benefit will be reduced by 50% of any earnings, provided the total gross income from all sources does not exceed 90% of the pre-disability normal gross wages.
No benefits will be paid for intentionally self-inflicted injuries, or for disabilities arising from a declared or undeclared act of war, participation in a riot or insurrection, employment with another employer, or commission of a felony.
Effective June 1, 1983, the Disability Retiirainiifent ClaiL^*m the Company's Pension Plan~will be removed. However, the benefit under the clause will still tD£TS7aftable, for up to one year thereafter for those employees who were eligible for the Disability Retirement provision but who were not eligible for Long Term Disability due to absence from work on the effective date.
This Memorandum shall remain in effect unless changed through subsequent negotiations.
Article 16 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
The terms of this Agreement shall be in full force and effect from the 1st day of April 1988 until the 31st day nf March 1991 unlessotherwise specified andthereafterfrom year to year unless either party gives notice in writing of termination or amendment of not more than 90 days and not less than 30 days prior to the date of expiry.
During the period of negotiations resulting from any of the provisions above, this Agreement will remain in full force and effect.
43
Signed this 18th day of August 1988 in the City of Saskatoon, in the Province of Saskatchewan, on behalf
INTERCONTINENTAL PACKERS LIMITED
S. IRVINE
M.	CARR
H. SAWATSKY
LOCAL 248-P OF THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION:
J. SMITH L. SCHREINER B. McRAE
N.	ELLIOTT
1.	When it becomes necessary to close a plant or a substantial portion of a plant and it is not expected that those affected will be re-employed a separation allowance or Service Award benefit will be paid to employees subject to the following:
(a)	They have one or more years seniority.
(b)	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid off within the thirty day period preceding the date of notice of closing. Employees on leave of absence up to one year, and employees receiving Worker's Compensation or off sick will be eligible, provided they have not been off work in excess of the time limits corresponding to seniority as set out in Article 11, 5(c).
(c)	They have not been granted retirement on pension.
(d)	They have not been transferred to another plant.
(e)	The closing is not brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slow-down or other cessation of work, fire, government action, or act of God.
of:
APPENDIX - ALL I — Plant Closing
44
(f)	In order to qualify for separation allowance,
employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as
long as required.
(g)	Eligible employees who are not age 60 or over will receive a separation allowance as follows:
Years
Completed Service Amount
1
2
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11 to 20
$ 380.00
860.00
840.00


1,060.00	</
1.270.00
1.470.00
1.690.00
1.890.00
2.120.00
The ten year allowance plus $335.00 for each year over ten.
21 & over The twenty year allowance plus $425.00 for each year over twenty.
In addition, employees will be entitled to a supplement based on completed full years of age and service as of the date of closing, Employees whose combined age and service, as above, total 65 will be entitled to a supplement of $2,500.00 plus an additional $125.00 for each year thei combined total exceeds 65.	I
(h)	Eligible employees who are age 60 and over shalj receive a Service Award benefit guaranteed 5 years ap follows:
Additional Annual Long
, Years of Service	Service Award
15	$ 1.070,00
16	1,130.00
17	1,190 00 45
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
1.250.00
1.310.00
1.370.00
1.445.00
1.520.00
1.590.00
1.665.00
1.735.00
1.810.00
1,880.00
1.955.00
2.025.00
2.100.00
2.175.00
2.245.00
2.320.00
2.390.00
2.465.00
2.535.00
2.610.00
2.685.00
2.755.00
2.830.00
2.900.00
2.975.00
3.045.00
3.120.00
3.195.00
3.265.00
3.340.00

2.	Employees who accept separation pay under the provision of this clause shall on doing so terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement between the signing parties.
In the event part of a plant remains open, employees
46
eligible to receive a separation allowance may elect to
remain on the seniority list for possible recall. The Company will hold the separation allowance for such employees as long as they are eligible for recall, during which time the employee may request payment subject to the provisions of the above paragraph. Those re-employed on this basis will receive seniority credit up to the time of their'layoff but shall not accumulate additional seniority during the period of layoff.
Employees eligible to receive a separation allowance, who elect to remain on the seniority list as outlined above, will be entitled to recall in accordance with the provisions of Article 11 -5(c), except that the allowable break will be the time equivalent to length of service up to three (3) years.
3.	In respect to those employees who are eligible for separation allowance under this Article the Company will continue to contribute to the Group Life Insurance, Medical-Surgical, Dental, Extended Health Care and Hospitalization Plans. Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to six months following the month in which the plant is closed and will be made on the basis existing at the time of closing.
4.	Effective the first of the month following the date of ratification, an employee who is eligible for a separation allowance under the provisions of the Plant Closing Section of the Collective Agreement and who is at least 60 as of the date of the closure will be given early retirement status when he retires and draws his pension, with no actuarial reduction in the pension from age 65 to a<je60.	~
%5-IZ
II — Work Methods
Change in Working Methods: When the introduction of new equipment makes a material change which is expected to result in the closing of a department or a substantial reduction in the number of employees in a department, the Company will inform the Union of such^change at least
47.... •/!-(
ninety days in advance of the contemplated change and the parties will discuss what is expected to take place and how the matter may best be handled. Employees who are eligible for placement in their own plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Article 11, Section 4(a). Employees with five or more years of seniority who are affected by such change and who are not eligible for placement in their own plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Clause 1, Plant Closing.
Where an employee is transferred to work where the job rate is lower, as a direct result of the introduction cf new equipment, or where an employee remains on a job re-^?W duced in value following a technological change, hi§_rgte . shall—not-bejeduced_jor a^period of three (3) years, I including layoff, provided That “the employee accepts all opportunities to post to work where the job rate is higher, unless it is unreasonable to expect such employees to 1 apply due to such things as age, health, working conditions, and the employee's ability to learn the job. Where an employee after a sincere effort, is unable to qualify, his rate protection shall not be affected.
In the application of rates or adjustments of bracket values, such an employee will not be paid a rate greater than the rate paid him at the time of the above mentioned posting, except for reasons of a general wage increase after the date of transfer.
At the expiry of the three (3) year period set out above, the amount of rate reduction shall be limited to two (2) brackets. At twelve (12) month intervals thereafter, further reductions of a maximum of two (2) brackets shall take place until the lower rate prevails.
III	— Contracting Out
The Company prefers to have work done by its employees although at times it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors. The relevant factors which the Company will consider before contracting out
48
such work include, adverse effect on employees, availability of required skills, duration and frequency of the job, urgency of the job, cost of equipment in relation to its use and relative cost comparison.
When work performed on the premises by outside contractors represents a material change in practice and has an adverse effect on present employees of a group affected by such change of practice, the matter may be the subject of a grievance and may be taken to arbitration.
Should an Arbitration Committee be called onto review the Company's action, it may consider the relevant factors I referred to above, in order to determine the reasonableness of the Company's action with regard to all circumstances. Should, the Arbitration Committee find the Company's action was not reasonable, the Committee will direct that
the Company choose between having the work performed
by its employees or ceasing such operation, and the Com-
pany shall have a reasonable.time to effect the decision.
This provision does not apply to cafeteria operations, to "out of town" deliveries, and to installation and construction work. The Company may at times experiment to determine if work can be performed effectively and economically by its own employees. When this IS done for a trial period, it shall not be considered a change of practice should the Company elect to contract out, after the trial period.
IV	— Recognition of Long Service
It is agreed that all retired employees currently receiving the Award at an actuarial reduced rate will be updated according to the method used in The Collective Agreement of June 01, 1984 and is to include only former Saskatoon Employees.
The Company agrees to provide a payment to eligible employees in recognition of long service as follows;
Memorandum of Agreement
49
—	all full time employees who reach their normal retirement date and who retire from service shall receive commencing at the later of the employee's normal or deferred retirement date a monthly payment in recognition of long service guaranteed five years calculated as follows:
—	For each employee for service with Intercontinental Packers Limited the number of ye^irs of such service multiplied by $11.40 per month. Ser/ice will be calculated to the last completed quarter year/
The benefit on termination before retirement otherwise by death will be, if the employee has 20 years of service or 10 years of service if he, ibage 45 or more, a deferred annuity payable from normal retirement date equal to the benefit accumulated to the time of termination.
The parties agree that the payment under this memorandum does not constitute a pension or pension benefit.
Effective July 1, 1989 increase the benefit to $12.40 per year of service per month. Effective July 1, 1990 increase the benefit to $13.00 per year of service per month.
V	— Early Retirement
Memorandum of Agreement
An employee retiring from the Company prior to his Normal Retirement Date (the quarter coincident with or next following the employee's 65th birthday) will be entitled to the Contributory Company Pension and Recognition of Long Service payment accrued to the date of his retirement calculated on the following basis:
(a)	The accrued pension and long service payment will not be actuarially reduced for the 48 month period im-
50
mediately preceding the employee's Normal Retirement Date.
(b)	The accrued pension and long service payment will be actuarially reduced for any such period of early retirement prior to the 48 months immediately preceding the employee's Normal Retirement Date.
(c)	The actuarial reduction of Long ServiceAward will be based on a 4% (four percent) reduction and no reduction of years of service will apply.
(d)	Effective July 1,1988 amend the 48 months referred to above to the 60 month period immediately preceding the employee's Normal Retirement Date.
VI	— Contributory Pension Plan ■y'j - I ?£-/
It is agreed that the Company will maintain the existing Contributory Pension Plan for the term of this agreement.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - Saskatchewan Medical Rebate
The Company will continue to pay rebates on Saskatchewan Hospitalization and Medicare to all employees who are employed prior to July 23, 1976. Should the government re-institute the charging of employees for these premiums then the practise shall be as covered in Article 15.3 of the Agreement,
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Reference: Article 11.3 — Seniority
The following information is available to the Union, when desired on a weekly basis:
(1)	Employees hired.
(2)	Employees recalled.
(3)	Employees laid-off and their posting.
(4)	Employees quitting (update seniority list).
51
(5)	Employees on vacation.
(6)	Employees on leave (over one week).
(7)	Long term sickness and compensation — one week or more duration.
This information may be obtained at all plants in a manner agreed upon by the various locals and management officials.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Warnings and records of suspensions issued concerning punching in and punching out will be destroyed immediately and no further warnings or suspensions will be issued dealing with these matters. The responsibility for employees coming in late or leaving early shall be assigned to the foremen, and cases of persistent offenders will be a matter for discussions between the Union and the Company with a view to correction. Warnings for minor offences shall be void after one (1) year and warnings for major offences will be void after five (5) years.
The above is subject to the right of the Union to grieve.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Employees who will be unavoidably absent from work for reasons of sickness, accident, etc., should notify the company of this fact as early as possible. This information should normally be given to the company prior to the start of the employee's shift so that alternate arrangements can be made. If this should prove impossible, then not later than 9:00 a.m. on the day shift.
The phone number to call is 931-4238, this is a direct line to the Health Centre, nurse's office.
After 4:00 p.m. the phone number to call is 382-2210 and ask for your foreman.
The required information is:
(a)	Employee's name.
(b)	Clock number.
52
(c)	Department.
(d)	Reason for absence.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Effective January 1, 1981, the Company undertakesto amend the Retirement Plan to provide that where an employee with 10 or more years' service is unable to perform any employment for remuneration or profit solely by reason of total and permanent disability, and that employee retires on pension, his accrued pension will not be actuarially reduced. The sole determination of cases qualifying for this provision will be made by the Company based upon medical evidence of such disability as it considers satisfactory.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan
In accordance with Article 15-1 as amended April 1st, 1986, the Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan shall become an in-house administered plan, administered by the Plan Administrator in accordance with the terms and conditions of the current insured plan contracts. The Plan Administrator shall be responsible for receiving and adjudicating all claims against the plan and will accept or reject claims based on an objective and impartial review of the merits of each claim. All claims accepted will be paid through the payroll department.
Claims will be rejected if they fail to satisfy the terms and conditions of the plan or if the medical evidence presented doesn't fall within the statistical limits of the plan's experience.
The Plan Administrator will provide the Personnel Manager and President of Local 248-P with the financial status of the Plan on March 1st of each year and shall make recommendations regarding the Weekly Indemnity Insur-
53
ance premiums charged plan members and the funding of any liability the plan may have incurred during the year.
Once the financial statements have been received, the Company's negotiating team will meet with the Local Union Committee for the purpose of setting the premium rates to be effective April 1st of each year.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Calculation of Holiday Pay:
Effective January 1st, 1987, all employees will have a common anniversary date of April 1st for the purpose of calculating Holiday Pay earned.
Cases of individual hardship involving employees with over one years' seniority which may arise within the first year of implementing this change will be reviewed by the parties to the Collective Agreement with a view towards easing the hardship.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm our understanding with respect to the application of the new starting rate.
—	The new starting rate will not apply to the employees hired prior to the date of ratification.
—	The new starting rate will not apply to employees hired prior to the date of ratification who are laid off and subsequently recalled within the allowable break as set out in Article 11-5 (c).
—	Employees who .terminate their full-time employment and subsequently work on a part-time basis will be paid at the new starting rate.
—	Each automatic increase for part-time employees will be paid when the accumulated number of hours worked is equivalent to the number of required months of service for such increases.
54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Funding of Long Service Award
Effective July 1, 1989 the Company agrees, giving due consideration to the recommendations of its actuary and the Government Regulations involved, to undertake the registration and funding of the Recognition of Long Service program, by the most appropriate means available.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Unemployment Insurance Premium Reduction
It is understood that the Company will apply on an annual basis for the premium reduction available from the Unemployment Insurance Commission for the sponsors of Accident and Sickness Insurance Plans which meet the Commission's guidelines. It is further understood that the Company will apply all premium reductions against the cost of maintaining the Weekly Indemnity Plan.
CLOTHING LIST
Clothing Supplied at Saskatoon
White Coats White Coveralls Hickory Coveralls Helmets
Aprons, regular neoprene Aprons, for boners Belts
Mitts, for freezers Mitt Liners
Leather Gloves, for maintenance Cotton Gloves, for beef shipping, canning, kill & cut
55
Rubber Boots White Pants, for drivers White Shirts, drivers only Rubber Gloves Freezer Coats
Gloves, sanitary throw away Parkas
Leather Gloves, Winter Mitts and Liners for stockyard Hair Nets
Bracket
0
tv
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
BRACKET VALUES
Effective 1 April 1988	
Prairie	Bracket
13.42	21
	22
13.58	23
13.66	24
13.74	25
13.82	26
13.90	27
13.98	28
14.06	li 29
14.14	rr -3£L
14.22	31
14.30	32
14.38	33
14.46	34
14.54	35
14.62	36
14.70	37
14.78	38
14.86	39
14.94	40
15.02	
56
Prairie
15.10
15.18
15.26
15.34
15.42
15.50
15.58
15.66
15.74
15.82
15.90
15.98
16.06
16.14
16.22
16.30
16.38
16.46
16.54
16.62

Bracket
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
BRACKET VALUES
Effective 1 Aorll 1989
Prairie	Bracket
13j82^h	^ 21
13.95	22
14.03	23
14.11	24
14.19	25
14.27	26
14.35	27
14.43	28
14.51	29
14.59	30
14.67	31
14.75	32
14.83	33
14.91	34
14.99	35
15.07	36
15.15	37
15.23	38
15.31 M	39
15.39-/*	40
15.47	
Prairie
15.55
15.63
15.71
15.79
15.87
15.95
16.03
16.11
16.35
16.43
16.51
16.59
16.67
16.75
16.83
16.91
16.99
17.07
Prairie	Bracket
JA-32-r	21
14.45	22
14.53	23
14.61	24
14.69	25
14.77	26
14.85	27
Prairie
16.05
16,13
16.21
16,29
16.37
16.45
16.53
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
14.93
15.01
15.09
15.17
15.25
15.33
15.41
15.49
15.57
15.65
15.73
15.81
J5.89
15.97
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
16.61
16.69
JJLZ7
16.85
16.93
17.01
17.09
17.17
17.25
17.33
17.41
17.49
17.57
N
JOB RATES
Note: (Inall departments where applicable)
Bracket
Trucker and Scaler . .
Labourer............
Trucker ............
Carton Former . . . . Powerworker Operator
Stockyards
Scaler .............
Tatooer.............
Tractor Operator . . .
Truck Driver .......
Yarder .............
Beef Kill
Driver..............
Knocker ............
Shackler ...........
58
cn ->4 -*•	cn -k. cn m\)0 o w
Sticker
Header
Weasand Pusher
Front and Hind Leg Skinner
Remove Head Prepare for Workup
Leg Remover
Rumper
Bunger
Open and Rim
Sider
Clear Out Shanks-Neck-Shoulders Backer Without Puller Brisket Opener Gutter
Splitter Power Saw Carcass Trimmer Beef Head Dejointer Hind Leg Skinner Anderson Hide Puller Scribe Saw
Remove Kidney and Defat
Neck-Bruise and Skirt Trim
Scaler
Washer
Shrouder
All Round Beef Kill Butcher
Rollerman
Beef Head Workup
Catch Blood
Plasma Operation
Head Washer (Flusher)
Held Rail
Cut Off Front Legs, Snout &Dehorn
Jowl Opener
Coolerman
59
12
14
6
20
4
4
22
6
21
23
20
22
6
12
13
5
8
20
19
5
5
5
5
2
7
19
2
7
2
4
2
9
5
7
3
Hides
Inspector-Grader
Trimmer
Tie, Scale and Truck Hide Man, Pull from Tank
Beef Coolers and Shipping
Coolerman Scaler —Carlot Scaler and Deskman Beef Lugger
Beef Breaker, Primal Cuts (Any Saw) Rib Beef
Sack — Wrap— Stencil Coolerman — Recording Grades Sort Selected Carcasses for Loading Trimmer
Order Filler —Tagged or Not Tagged Beef Boning
Beef Breaker—Any Saw ..........
Domestic Beef Boner ...........
Trimmer — Whizzard Knife ......
Pack — Scale—Record ........
Retail Cut Fabricator .........
Bone — Roll — Stitch — Fresh Hams
Check Trimmer .................
Packer and Scaler ...........
Truck, Scale and Record .......
Fresh Boning (Saskatoon)
Fresh Boner .................
Mechanical Deboner Operator .
Fresh Boner/Sawman ..........
Fresh Boner, Prepare for Breakup
6
4
4
3
3
7
7
7
13
6
2
3
4 3
8
11
13
3
4 11
8
3
3
3
13
6
13
13
60
Bloc-Redi Beef
Bloc-Redi Boner
Prepare for Break-up
Beef Breaker — Primal Cuts (Any Saw)
Beef Breaker's Helper
Bag Primal Cuts — Cry-O-Vac
Vacummizing Product
Pack — Scale— Record
Beef Casings
Tripe Trimmer — Defat and Open
Tripe Washer and Trimmer
Bung Trimmer
Middle Flusher
Casing Packer
Separate and Tie-Off
Tripe Scraper
Hog Casings
Casing Puller
Casing Machine Operator
Casing Machine Operator's Helper
Salter and Measurer
Bung Puller
Bung Flusher
Bung Trimmer and Grader
Open Stomachs
Casing Packer
Separate Plucks from Viscera Inspector and Grader Prepare Viscera
Fancy Meat Trimmer and Casing Processor
Fancy Meats
Trim Chitterlings Fancy Meat Trimmer
61
13
11
13
4
4
4
4
tn -U -t^roco cjicncoajhoc^oorocna) ro-t^coro-sicnoi
Grade — Scaleand Pack Save Glands Liver Skinner Packer and Scaler
Fancy Meat Trimmer
Slunk (collect slunk blood)
Trim Tongues
Trim Plucks
Save Hog Stomachs
Wash and Pack Animal Tripe
Save Animal Foods
Rendering
Sludge Truck Driver Blow Tank Operator Expeller Operator Tankman
Sharpies —Operator Sharpies —Assistant Flotation and Tallow Clarification Inedible Truck Loader Spare Rendering Man
Hog Kill
Driver — Hogs Electrical Stunner Shackler Sticker
Scalding Tank Tender
Feed and Operate Deh'airing Machine
Gam Cord Cutter
Insert Gambrel and Hang
Toenail Puller
Carcass Shaver (Knife) Hams Balance
62
4
4
4
3
5
4
4
5
4
4
5
5
9
9
11
6
9
4
9
1
6
7
15
2
8
6
3
2
7
6
Brisket Opener Open Aitch-Bone
Belly Opener	1
Bung Dropper	1
Gutter	1
Tongue Remover	1
Splitter ■— Mechanical	1
Legend Stamper Trim Necks
Head Dejointer (Mechanical)
Head Breaker
Kidney Puller
Leaf Lard Puller
Leaf Lard Scraper
Print-0-Matic Scaler
Held Rail —Complete Job
Remove Bruises— Udders —Adhesions
Place Hog in Cooler
Rollerman
Skin Heads
Cheek Chisler and Break
Trim Head Bones
Trim Scalps
Cut Off Ear and Heads
Operate Hand Singer
Mechanical Skinner Operator
Hog Turner
Pork Cutting
Coolerman
Cooler Scaleman
Cut Gam Cord — Mark Ham
Remove Ham
Feed Dunseth Knife
Lift—Neck Bones
Band Saw
63
co co cn -■j -'j -fc*	oocroj^roajoiCDroroococnroaioocococnro-^-^ m m a
Ham Trimmer
Butt Trimmer
Picnic Trimmer
Butt and Picnic Trimmer
Mechanical Butt Puller
Belly Ribber
Back Ribber
Belly Trimmer
Pull and Trim Loins and Backs Back Boner Pork Trimmer Mechanical Skinner Whizzard Knife Operator Packer and Scaler Porker Boner Tenderloin Remover Mechanical Loin Puller Operator Remove Ham Trim Rollerman
Set Up Pork Cut and Pack Prepare Ham for Defatting Back Boner Utility Man
Pork Grading and Packing
C V P Operator
Cut Grader
Scaler and Packer
Mechanical Skinner Operator
Wrap Cuts (Freezer and Scales)
Checker
Lard Carton Packer Votater Operator Deboner Machine Operator Carton Hauler Clean Up
64
9
9
9
9
13
11
11
11
11
13
3
3
3
3
7
4
13
8
2
4
5
13
5
3
4
3
3
2
7
2
8
6
3
4
Pork Boning
Pork Boner
Mechanical Skinner Operator Packer and Scaler Truck Scale and Record
Curing
Challenge Cook Operator Selo Injector Operator Pickle Maker
Anco Injector Pump Operator Fork Lift Operator Load and Unload Vats Multi-Stix Machine Operator Warrick Tightener and Clipper Whizzard Knife Operator Tree Washer
Warrick Continuous Stutter Truck, Scale and Product Control
Converting Cured Cuts
S P Converting (Butts, Picnics, Loins, Etc )
Mechanical Skinner
Fresh Ham Break-Up — Individual Operations
Langen Operator
Set Up Langen and Prepare for Dept Operations Boner Trimmer
Prepare Meat for Further Processing Membrane Skinner
Smoked Meats Preparation
Smokehouse Tender	11
Spare Smokehouse Tender (Hours Worked)	11
Stuff Visking Product	3
65
cooocouicn co -si -P^cnrococojs».-^ji.4i.'>i4^cn gococon
Tightener and Clipper	3
Tipper-Tie Operator	2
Stockinette and Hang	1
Smokehouse Helper/Cleaner Belly Comber Belly Hanger
Cooked and Sliced Ham Department
Jiffex Mold Washer Cooked Ham Manufacture
Ham Canning
Cut Ham Portions Scaler
Ham Press Operator Closing Machine Operator Place in Cans Washer
Pack Tins To Cartons
Retort Operator	1
Ham Stuffer Operator
Code Lids, Wash Cans and Record
Sausage
Fresh Sausage Product Supplier
Hydroflaker Operator
Wiener Hanger
Scale Meat for Batches
Grinder Operator
Silent Cutter Operator
Vacuum Mixer Operator
Stuffer Loader
Loaf and Bolo Stuffer
Del and Cook Manufacturer
Frank-A-Matic Operator and Utility
Bolo Hanger
Sausage Stuffer
66
CJCM-r-	'T-CO	COCOCM'^rcOOf— CM If) CO	^T-CNJCOLOCO^CNJinaJLOCMLn
Casing Preparer
Linker
Tier
Hanger
Tipper Tie Operator Fresh Sausage Packer Wiener Packer Wiener Peeler Operator Frank-A-Mafic Attendant Pack and Record Pre-Clip Visking Casings Pack to Cartons Hy-Cut Operator	. . .
Packer and Scaler — Bulk Wieners
Blender Operator
Scaler Fresh Sausage
Blender Operator, Set Up Equipment
Stick and Tree Washer
Scaler and Snorkel Vac Operator
Sausage Maker Helper
Haul Supplies, Setup and Blend
Wiener Sorter
Frozen Prepack
Patty Machine Operator Packer Hi Speed Patty Line Other Help (Packers, Sealers, etc )
Slicing and Packaging
Slice and Pack Coolerman
Set Up, Operate and Attend Bacon Slice Equip
Bacon Press Operator
Bacon Slice Operator
Pack to Sales
Helper 6/18 Feed Packaging Machine
Loaf Hauler and Scaler
902 and 730 Machine Operator
67
CMCMCMCMCMCMCMOOCOCMi— t— CMOOCOCMOOCMOOLDCOt-	^ CM CM	CM ■'M' 00 CO CO CM CO LO
Bacon Grader
Bacon Scaler
Pack and Record
Select and Pack Sliced Bacon
Cry-0-Vac Band Saw Operator
Cry-0-Vac Machine Operator
Slicer Operators
Feed Packaging Machine (Post All Specific Machines)
Pack, Scale and Record Feed Label Machine 902 and 802 Bag Product — Cry-O-Vac Pack Cry-0-Vac Product Feed Wiener Chill Unit
Tend and Operate Warrick Loader (Wieners) Snorkel Operator
Rotomatic Machine Operator (Cry-O-Vac) Make, Stack and Record 802, 902 Operate Wiener Peelers Band Saw Operator Table Person
Feed Packaging Machine Dixie 2400
Insert Labels and Label Dixie 2400
Pack Deep Draw Product Dixie 2400
Scale and Record — Dixie 2400
Dixie Union 2400 Operator
Pack to Sales — Scale and Record — Wieners
Shipping Dock — Trucks and Freezers
Truck Driver — Deliveries	1
Head Freezerman
Freezerman's Helper
Truck Driver's Helper
Receiver
Checker and Scaler
68
-^j —j .fck co -"J rv)	coaiwrorofOfowwMoiwrowroMMCow w w ro wro w w
Warehouse Receiver	7
Fork Lift Truck Operator
Truck Jockey
Truck Jockey (Saskatoon)
Load and Unload Dress Hogs
Elevator Operator
High Lift Operator (Freezers Only)
Freezer Checker
Sort and Loaf Mixed Merchandise Freezer Controller
High Lift Operator (Hours Worked -Not Posted)
Plant Market
Retail Cut Fabricator	1
Packer and Scaler
Plant Administration
Janitor
Fill Plant Orders -Storeroom
Storekeeper
Head Laundryman
Night Clean-up — One Year Contract
Note A person posting to a job with a one year contract is
(a)	exempted from any layoff during the one year period
(b)	excluded from bidding onto another job during the one year period
The one year contract is effective from the date of the awarding of the posting Subject to six (6) week qualifying period
Night Clean-up—No Contract	4
Laundry Attendant, Presserand Mender	2
Spare Laundryperson (Hours Worked)	5
69
cji do co —cy>--gcji~sjo^rocococnf5w
Scale Mechanic High Pressure Welder (For Time Spent Only)
Bricklayer —Cement Finisher— Plasterer Trailer Refrigeration Mechanic
Others
Minor Repairman Helper
Wash and Service Trucks Knife Sharpener
Lubrication and Inspection Person
Rap Mat Shipping
Freezer Order Picker Order Picker Gross Scale Controller A/Gross Scale Controller
(Automatically Takes Over As Gross Scale Controller — Only Assistant's Job Posted) Flow Rack Stocker Co-ordinator Addresser Product Supplier Bloc-Redl Order Picker
Sort and Load Mixed Merchandise Order Picker — Lucerne Bloc-Redi Order Picker
Order Picker — Open Orders Janitor
Cafeteria
Assistant Cook General Help Cashier
70
7
4
3
11
9
7
7
14
11
4
11
4
4
7
5
7
7
7
2
3
0
1
LO S	CO CD
CO ^	CO CO
Spare Laundry Attendant, Presser Mender (Hours Worked)
Elevator Operator and Trucker Garbage Hauler
Feeds Division
Mixer
Warehouseman Utility Man Bagger
Mixer's Assistant
Meat Meal Truck Driver Grinder Operator Pallet Loader
Engineers
Regular Shift Engineer
Minimum 2nd Class Steam and Refrigeration) Regular Shift Engineer
(Minimum 3rd Class Steam and Refrigeration) Fireman (4th Class Steam Papers)
Refrigeration Man
Relief Engineer and Maintenance Man (Boilers and Refrigeration)
Regular Shift Engineer (4th Class Steam and Refrigeration)
Mechanical Maintenance Skilled Trades
Welder
Electrician (Journeyman)
Pipefitter (Journeyman)
Industrial Mechanic/Millwright (First Class) Industrial Mechanic/Millwright (Second Class) Carpenter Painte i
Garage Mechanic
2
4
4
.	.	7
.	.	7
.	.	6
.	5
.	.	4
.	.	4
.	.	1
38
35
16
9
34
31
36
40
35
36 18
35 30
36