COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 2nd day of January, 2005
BY AND BETWEEN:	LUCERNE FOODS LTD.
A DIVISION OF CANADA SAFEWAY LIMITED, a body corporate- Meat Processing Plant - carrying on business in the City of Calgary
(hereinafter referred to as the Employer)
and
UNITED FOODAND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 373A
(hereinafter referred to as the Union)
Effective:	August 31, 2003
Expiry:	August 30, 2008
nOc29A(n S')
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Arbitration
Basic Work Week and Overtime
Bracket (15) Boners
Credit for Previous Experience
Deduction of Union Dues
Dental Plan
Departments
Discipline and Discharge
Duration and Renewal
Grievance Procedure
Health and Welfare / Sick Leave
Job Postings
Jury Service
Leave of Absence
Maintenance Tool Allowance
Maternity/ Parental Leave
Non-Discrimination
Pension Plan
Probationary Period
Purpose of Agreement
Rates for Relief Work
Recognition and Jurisdiction
Safety Committee
Safety Boot Allowance
Scheduling
Seniority
Severability
Severance Pay
Shift Premiums
Staff Meetings
Statutory Holidays
Successors and Assigns
Time Clocks
Time Between Shifts
Union Security
Union's Recognition of Management's Rights
Vacations
Wages
Wages and Classifications Weekly Guarantee Working Conditions- General Work Stoppages
ARTICLE
18
5
Appendix A Appendix A 4
10.2
Appendix B 12 23 17 10
11.2,11.12
9
8
15.8 8.6 20 10.2 12.4
1
7.3
2
15
15.9
5.4 11 21
13
7.4 5.12
6
19
5.5 7.7
3
16
14
7
Appendix A
5.6
15 22
PAGE
27
2
34
34
2
14
35 21 29 26 12
18,19
11
9
25
10'11
28
12,13
21
1
7
1
24
25 3
18
28
21
8/34
6
6
28
3
9
1
26
23 7
31,32,33
3
24 28
LOU #1 - Job Training
LOU #2- Joint Labour/ Management Committee
LOU #3 - Transfer/Promotion to Meat Cutter/Sawman
LOU #4 - Job Postings - Vacation Relief
LOU #5 - Part-Time Employees
LOU #6 - Lead Hand Postings
LOU #7 - Locker Checks
36
37
38
39
40
42
43
LOU #8 -LOU #9 -LOU #10 LOU #11 LOU #12
LOU #13 LOU #14 LOU #15 LOU #16
Criteria for Improver Classifications Compressed Work Week Retirement Plan Janitors New Postings
(Cooked Meats/Shipping & Receiving Dental Contributions The Calm System Modified Work
Production Employees Wishing to Bump PartTime Employees in Shipping and Receiving
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
This index is only for easy reference. Members are encouraged to read this Agreement and be conversant with all its provisions. When in doubt as to the interpretation of any section of this Agreement, phone your Union Office at279-0341.
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
It i s the intent and purpose of the parties hereto, that this Agreement will promote, improve and maintain industrial, economic and harmonious relations between the Union, the employees and the Employer and to set forth herein the agreement between the parties covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment, to be observed by the Employer, its employees and the Union during the term hereof.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION
2.1	The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole Collective Bargaining Agent for all employees employed in the Calgary Meat Plant, but excluding office, clerical staff, quality control, security staff, supervisory personnel.
2.2	The Employer agrees not to employ persons having full-time employment with other Employers except in emergency when qualified help is not available.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
3.1	The Employer agrees to retain in his employ within the bargaining unit, as outlined in Article 2 of this Agreement, only members of the Union in good standing.
The Employer shall be free to hire new employees who are not members of the Union, PROVIDED said non-members, whether part-time or full-time employees, shall be eligible for membership in the Union, and shall make application on the first (1st) day of employment, and become members within thirty (30) days.
3.2	The Employer agrees to provide each new employee at the time of employment with form letter outlining to the employee his or her responsibility in regard to Union membership, and to provide the Union, in writing, with the name and address of each employee to whom they have presented the form letter, the Company will inform all new employees that they mustjoin the Union as outlined in Section 1 above.
The Union shall bear the expense of printing the letter, the contents of the letter to be such that it is acceptable to the Employer. The Employer further agrees to provide the Union, once a month, with a list containing names of all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous month.
3.3	The Employer agrees there should be no discrimination in accordance with the provisions of the Individual’s Rights Protection Act, Government of Alberta and amendments thereto as contained in the Employment Standards Ad.
3.4	The Employer retains the sole right to hire employees. The acceptance or rejection of candidates proposed by the Union shall not be subject to Article 17 (Grievance Procedure) and Article 18 (Arbitration).
3.5	The Company agrees that outside salesmen shall not assume duties that are normally performed by hourly paid employees.
The Company agrees that:
1. Supervisor and those above the rank of Supervisor shall not assume duties that are normally performed by hourly paid employees except where such duties are limited to occasional work, negligible in amount, but such Supervisor shall in no way be restricted from work which,
a.	is of confidential clerical nature
b.	is for the purpose of instruction, experimentation, demonstration, investigation, replacement of an employee from their job during the day, sharpening knives, coping with an emergency. An emergency as here is contained shall not be construed as including work resulting from additional volume.
c.	is to overcome production difficulties caused by the absence of an employee. In such cases the Company will obtain a suitable replacementwithin one-half (V2) day unless a qualified replacement is not available.
d.	is in the powerhouse or cafeteria.
e.	is located in a remote department of the Plant requiring a separate supervisor (maintenance department and dry storage only).
ARTICLE 4 - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
4.1	The Employer agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such initiation fees and union dues, as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union.
4.2	The Employer further agrees to automatically deduct union dues from the wages of all new employees. The employees shall, within thirty (30) days after commencement of employment, provide the Employer with a signed authorization for such deductions.
4.3	Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than twenty-one (21) calendar days following the end of the Employer's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period, and accompanied by a written statement of the names of the employees from whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
ARTICLES - BASIC WORK WEEK AND OVERTIME
5.1	The Employer reserves the right to schedule hours of operation, employee hours of work, rest periods, lunch periods, and overtime work, subject to the following provisions
2
5.2	The basic work week for regular full-time employees shall consist of forty (40) hours to be worked in five (5), eight (8) hour days, as scheduled by the Employer.
5.3	Daily hours of work shall be consecutive with the exception of rest and meal periods. No split shifts shall be worked.
5.4	The Employer shall post a weekly work schedule for all full-time employees not later than Thursday 3:00 P.M. of each week for the following week. If a new work schedule is not posted by Thursday, 3:00 P.M., then the schedule already posted shall apply for the following week.
The schedule of an employee regularly working full-time may be changed without notice in the event of an unscheduled absence of other employees, or in the event of emergencies such as fire, flood, breakdown in machinery or other instances of "force majeure". In all other cases at least twenty-four (24) hours notice of any change must be given or four (4) hours additional pay given in lieu of notice.
5.5	The Employer agrees that he shall provide time clocks for all employees to record their hours worked for payroll purposes, except time punched in before the regular starting time. Early starts shall be initialed by the Supervisor. Employees shall punch their own time at the time they commence and finish work, and the time they commence and return from meal periods and rest periods if so required.
Notwithstanding the foregoing and upon four (4) weeks' notice to the Union, the Employer may introduce a time and attendance system.
5.6	Weekly Guarantee
1. The Company agrees to guarantee to regular full-time employee a minimum of forty (40) hours per week of pay in lieu of work exclusive of overtime and night shift premium, except as hereinafter provided.
a.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Union agrees that the employer may reduce, at any time, the straight time hours of work of any employee by up to one hundred and twenty (120), regularly scheduled hours in each calendar year. The reduction of such hours in the employees' straight time hours will not exceed the hours of one applicable daily shift in any one given seven (7) day period. The reduction of one applicable daily shift shall not exceed six (6) times in any one calendar year and will not exceed two consecutive weeks. Reduction of the one applicable daily shift shall only occur on the first or last scheduled day of the given seven (7) day period. Employees will be notified of the reduction on the Wednesday preceding the week of the reduction. When an employee(s) normal straight time hours are reduced under this provision, the employee(s) affected, providing they have the necessary qualifications, skill and ability, shall have the option to bump the least senior employee(s) who has not reached the one hundred and twenty (120) hour maximum to maintain their regular number of hours in a given seven day period. As an exception to the foregoing, employees in production will not bump employees in shipping and receiving and employee in shipping and receiving will not bump employees in production.
3
b.	An employee who is excused from work for any part of a day or days, for any personal reason, shall have their guarantee reduced for the week concerned by the number of hours of work which they missed by such absence.
c.	An employee who starts after the first of the payroll week shall be guaranteed for such starting week that fraction of the guarantee which the number of hours remaining in the payroll week is of forty (40) hours.
d.	Employees on layoff notice shall be entitled to their guaranteed payment for the week in which notice is given and should notice extend into the subsequent week, then the guaranteed payment for such week shall be that fraction of the guaranteed hours pay which the normal hours for those days of the notice occurring in such week is of forty (40). Extension of notice of layoff shall not prolong for more than two (2) weeks, otherwise the Company will withdraw such notice and reissue to the employees so affected.
In the event a layoff is deemed necessary in the Plant, the employee with the least seniority in the Company shall be laid off limited however to the said classification as described in the APPENDIX "A". If there is a senior employee with the ability and qualifications to fill the vacancy created in the classification, they shall be given the opportunity to transfer. If the said employee(s) refuses said transfer, the Employer's obligation ceases.
An employee absent due to layoff in excess of thirty (30) days shall retain, but not accumulate, seniority and vacation entitlement during the period of employee's absence up to a maximum of six (6) months. Absence of thirty (30) calendar days or less, due to layoff, shall not interrupt seniority or vacation entitlement.
e.	The guarantee shall be the same in the holiday weeks as all others. Pay received for any public holidays, or in case of offshifts, day in lieu of, shall be considered as earnings for the purpose of calculating the guarantee. Unless such pay is for hours which fall outside an employee's schedule.
f.	In order to meet the demands of the business, the Company will hire part-time workers excluded from the provisions of this Article.
Part-time employees are eligible for membership in the Union.
Where the work performed by part-time employees can be satisfactorily combined to permit the employment of a full-time employee, this will be done provided the employee can satisfactorily perform the work.
The Union may submit, and the Company will consider alternative means of doing required work rather than employ part-time employees and such matters may be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures.
4
5.7	Overtime Pay
All time worked in excess of the daily hours, or the basic work week as defined in Article 5.2, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (I-V2) the regular rate. Compensating time off shall not be given in lieu of overtime pay. When it is necessary to work overtime, the Company will advise employees of such overtime as soon as possible and will endeavor to advise employees of such overtime by the middle of their normal daily hours. Notice of overtime or cancellation of overtime will also be posted. The rate of double time (X 2) shall apply to the employees regular rate of pay for all employees after thirteen (13) hours of work in one (1) day.
In the event that overtime is required in a particular department or on a particular line, then the overtime shall be offered to the most senior employees on shift in the department or line concerned provided they have the ability and qualifications to perform the required overtime work. If the senior employees do not wish to accept the overtime, then the Employer shall have the right to assign such work to junior employees who have the necessary qualifications and ability, and who are at work at the time.
As an exception to the foregoing, in the event that overtime is required in the Ground Beef Department then the overtime shall be offered by the Employer to the most senior employees who routinely perform this job function and are on shift.
If the senior employees who routinely perform this job function do not wish to accept the overtime work, then the Employer shall have the right to assign such work to the least senior qualified employee who has the necessary ability and who is on shift at the time. (This is not to include Maintenance personnel.)
5.8	Emergency Call-In
An employee who has left the Company's premises, specially called outside their scheduled hours for emergency work, shall be through when the emergency is over. For such emergency work, being that outside of scheduled hours, they shall be paid four (4) hours at their job rate or for the hours actually worked at the overtime rate, whichever is the greater. An employee who is called in pursuant to the first paragraph shall stay for a minimum of two (2) hours, if requested and necessary, to ensure that the emergency has been remedied.
5.9	Rest Periods
Employees working a shift of seven (7) or more hours shall receive two (2) rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each, with pay. Employees working a shift of four (4) hours, but less than seven (7) hours will receive one (1) rest period of fifteen (15) minutes, with pay. Rest periods shall be scheduled on the basis of one before and one after the meal, but shall not be combined with the meal period. Rest periods shall not begin until one (1) hour after commencement of work or following return from meal period or less than one (1) hour before either the meal period or the end of the shift as the case may be.
5
5.10	Meal Periods
Meal periods of uninterrupted duration, without pay, not to exceed sixty (60) minutes, shall start not earlier than three (3) hours, nor later than five (5) hours after commencement of employee's shift.
Work performed over five (5) hours without a meal period shall be paid for at double time (X 2) of the employee's regular rate of pay.
5.11	Rest Periods, Meal Periods and Supper Money During Overtime
When an employee is required to work more than one (1) hour, but not more than two (2) hours overtime in a day, they shall receive one fifteen (15) minute rest break with pay to be scheduled by Management as near to the commencement of the overtime period as practical. It i s understood overtime is paid to the nearest fifteen (15) minutes.
When an employee is required to work in excess of two (2) hours overtime, they shall be given an additional twenty (20) minutes meal break on Company time immediately following the required paid rest break. If twenty-four (24) hours prior notice has not been given, they shall be paid seven dollars ($7.00) supper money or be supplied a hot meal of equal value.
5.12	Staff Meetings
Staff Meetings, whether in the Plant or off the premises shall be considered as time worked, and paid for accordingly, except meetings at which attendance is voluntary.
ARTICLE t - STATUTORY H
6.1	The following days shall be recognized as Statutory Holidays:
New Year's Day Family Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day First Monday in August
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
and all other public holidays proclaimed by the Federal, Provincial or Municipal Governments.
6.2	Provided that he or she works his or her scheduled hours as scheduled by the Employer for the days before and after the holiday, unless absent due to bona fide illness or accident or approved leave of absence, employees regularly working full-time shall receive eight (8) hours pay at their job rate for each such holiday. Such leave of absence as applicable herein shall be deemed to be for a period of five (5) working days or less.
6
6.3	Pay For Work on Holiday
An employee entitled to Statutory Holidays with pay, if required to work on such a day, shall receive double (X 2) their regular hourly rate in addition to their regular pay for each hour worked on said holiday.
6.4	Paid Holidays- Part-time Employees
Provided that they work their scheduled working day prior to and following the holiday, unless absent due to bona fide illness or accident or approved leave of absence, employees other than those working full-time shall, following thirty (30) calendar days from the date of employment, be paid for the number of hours they would normally have worked on such a day or days if it were not a holiday. The method for determining the normal hours worked shall be computed by averaging the hours worked on such days for the four (4) weeks immediately preceding the holiday.
6.5	Observation of Holiday- Saturday and Sunday
Where permitted under applicable labour legislation if any of the paid holidays fall on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed as the holiday and where Monday is also a holiday, the Tuesday will be observed as the holiday in lieu of Monday. Further, if the holiday should fall on Saturday, it is understood that such holiday will be observed on the Friday immediately prior to said holiday.
Upon reasonable notice by the Employer the foregoing may be varied by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union. An Agreement between the Employer and the Union to vary the day on which the Holiday is observed will not adversely affect an employee who had scheduled a day off pursuantto Article 14.6.
ARTICLE 7 - WAGES
7.1	Basic hourly rates of pay and job classifications in Appendix "A" attached hereto and made part of the Agreement, shall remain in effect for the term of this Agreement.
7.2	New Job Classification
When new job classifications are established by the Company, they shall be posted in accordance with Article 11, Section 12 and a rate shall be set by the Company with a written notification to the Union. I f after a trial period of thirty (30) working days, the Union deems the rate established to be unsatisfactory, the dispute shall be settled pursuant to the Grievance Procedure and Article 18, Arbitration as herein provided.
7.3	Rates of Relief Work
In the event an employee is required to perform duties for a period of more than one (1) hour in a day, in respect of which the rate of pay is higher than that paid to such employee, they shall receive as a minimum rate of pay, a rate that their total accrued hours to date entitles them to in the classification in which they are relieving. Whenever
7
possible, the senior employee(s) within the department will be assigned temporary work in a classification that carries a higher rate of pay.
It i s understood that they shall receive this rate for all time so worked. If an employee is required to temporarily relieve an employee receiving a lower rate of pay, their rate shall not be changed. Employees temporarily relieving the lead hand shall receive the rate contained in the regular wage schedule as set out.
It i s the shared responsibility of the Supervisor and the Lead Hand to record hours worked in a relief capacity.
7.4	Shift Premiums- NIGHT
a.	An employee whose schedule calls for work to commence at any time other than between 6:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M., inclusive, shall receive a night shift premium of thirty-five cents (35/) per hour for all hours worked between 3:30 P.M. and 7:00 A.M., such premium to be continued for hours worked after 7:00 A.M. where the employee was entitled to the premium for hours immediately before 7:00 A.M. Such premium shall not be a part of their regular hourly job rate.
b.	For scheduled hours worked between 12:01 A.M. on Saturday and midnight on Sunday, an employee shall receive one and one-half times (X 1-1/2) their regular hourly rate. The foregoing shall not apply for any hours on Saturday or Sunday for which overtime or paid holiday rates are paid.
Part-time workers shall receive a premium of twenty cents (20/) per hour for hours worked between 12:01 A.M. and midnight on Saturday and thirty cents (30/:) per hour for hours worked between 12:01 A.M. and midnight on Sunday. Such premium shall not be a part of an employee's regular hourly job rate. The premium shall not apply for any hours for which overtime rates are paid.
Shift Premiums- SUNDAY WORK
c.	Double (X 2) the regular hourly rate shall be paid to hourly paid employees for work performed on Sunday except where the work regularly falls on Sunday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid double the regular hourly rate if they work on their day off in lieu of Sunday.
In the case of employees starting a night shift prior to Midnight Sunday, the hours worked before midnight shall not be considered as Sunday work as these hours are part of their Monday shift. As an exception to the foregoing, should more than three (3) hours of the scheduled working hours in the shift be worked prior to Sunday midnight, then the hours prior to midnight shall be paid at double (X 2) the regular hourly rate.
Where an employee's scheduled days off do not include an actual Sunday, then the second day off shall be deemed to be their Sunday.
8
d.	Three (3) weeks after the Sunday following ratification, employees working in the Shipping and Receiving classification (loaders, receivers, forklift operators, Raymond operators), Order Selecting classification and Shipping and Receiving Clerk classification will receive a premium of thirty (35) cents for each full hour worked in the Shipping and Receiving area of the plant.
Effective August 27, 2006, the employees will receive a premium of $0.40.
Effective September 02, 2007, the employees will receive a premium of $0.50.
7.5	Shift differential pay or premium rate for evening work which is overtime, shall be paid but not added to the employee's hourly rate of pay for the purpose of computing overtime pay.
7.6	There shall be a regular weekly payday by direct deposit. Deposits will normally be made by noon on Thursday. The Company will notify the Union as soon as possible in the event that the payroll is delayed.
The employee shall be given a statement showing pay period covered, gross earnings, and all deductions,
7.7	There shall be an interval of not less than ten (10) hours between shifts for all employees. An employee who is not allowed a ten (10) hour interval between shifts shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (I-V2) for time worked prior to the expiry of the ten (10) hour interval.
ARTICLE 8 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
8.1	An employee will be granted time off with pay (normally three (3) days) in the event of a death in the immediate family; length of such leave shall be determined by the Employer with consideration given with respect to travel time (if more than three days are required, the Employer may grant additional compassionate leave without pay). The term "immediate family" shall mean: spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-inlaw, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, grandchild, or any relative living in the household of the employee. It i s understood that in the case of a part-time employee, the compensation shall be at the average hours worked during the preceding four (4) weeks based on the normal scheduled days of approved leave.
8.2	The Employer agrees that employees chosen to attend Union conventions and conferences or participate in negotiations involving the Employer, or other Union business, shall be given time off without pay. The number of employees, in excess cf one (1) to be granted leave of absence for these purposes shall be by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union. It i s understood that such leaves of absence must not unreasonably affect the operations of the Company.
8.3	Leave of absence will be granted to an employee member of the Union, not to exceed one (1) who has given one week's notice to the Company that he or she requires leave of absence on account of their election or appointment to a full-time employee of the Union. Such leave of absence shall not exceed the term of this Agreement, but upon application of
9
such employee the leave may be renewed. Such employee shall accumulate seniority to a maximum of six (6) months and upon his/her return to his/her Company's employ, his/her seniority date may be adjusted if necessary. It i s further understood that such employee has no claim to any vacancies effected during such leave of absence and upon his or her notice to return, they may be returned to their former position or to such other position to which they have as a right, by reason of seniority.
8.4	The employee shall notify the Employer at least one (1) week in advance of the date of the commencement of such leave of absence as provided for in Article 8.2 and 8.3 above and further the employees shall notify the Employer one (1) week in advance of their intentions to return to work.
8.5	Leave of absence may be granted to an employee by the Company for good and sufficient reason upon application by the employee provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the requirements of the business. The employee will be advised of the Company's answer within fifteen (15) days. If l eave of absence is for a period of one (1) week or more, written application shall be made by the employee to the Company and if the leave is granted by the Company, it shall be confirmed in writing and a copy thereof sent to the Secretary of the Union. Leaves of absence will not normally be considered during Primetime (April 1st to September 30th).
Compassionate leave to employees will be dealt with on an individual basis. An employee must schedule their vacation before requesting a leave of absence under this Section.
8.6	LEAVE FOR PARENTS - MATERNITY LEAVE
Employees may request a leave of absence without pay up to a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks because of pregnancy. Such request will be granted, provided the employee submits to her Employer, a request, in writing for such leave at least two (2) weeks prior to the date she intends to commence such leave, together with a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner, certifying that she is pregnant and indicating the estimated date of confinement. Such leave may at her discretion commence twelve (12) weeks or more (depending on medical requirements) prior to confinement and the period, if any, between the date of confinement mentioned in the certificate and the actual date.
Employees who are granted a Maternity Leave will be responsible for the full cost of continuing the Company's benefit plan.
Where a pregnant employee, who has qualified for group benefits, is disabled and cannot perform her regular duties, she may apply for sick benefits/group insurance benefits as per the Collective Agreement.
The employee, when returning to work at the end of her leave (maternity and/or parental leave), shall give the employer two (2) weeks notice of date of return.
Employees, who commence maternity leave, will have benefits reinstated upon return to work. The employee shall be returned to her former position at the completion of her leave of absence.
10
The Employer reserves the right to determine the time upon which a pregnant employee shall be required to commence a leave of absence, if the duties of her position cannot reasonably be performed or if the employee's work is materially affected by the pregnancy.
PARENTAL / ADOPTION LEAVE
An employee may request a parental or adoption leave of absence, without pay, for the care and custody of a newborn child or an adoptive child under the law of the province. Such leave of absence will be to a maximum of thirty-seven (37) weeks. Further, such leave of absence shall be granted provided the employee requests the leave in writing at least two (2) weeks before the date specified in the application as the date the employee intends to commence the leave. The leave will be taken during the first fifty-two (52) weeks after the birth of the child, or in the case of adoption, after the child comes into the custody of the employee.
Employees who are granted a Parental or an Adoption Leave will be responsible for the full cost of continuing the Company's benefit plan.
Employees who choose not to maintain their benefit coverage under the Company benefit plan, will have their benefits reinstated upon return to work.
The employee shall be returned to their former position at the completion of their leave of absence.
PATERNITY LEAVE
The Company will grant two (2) days of unpaid leave to the father commencing on the day of the birth of the child.
8.7	Employees will continue to accrue seniority while on approved leaves of absence except as provided in Article 8.3 above."
8.8	Employees shall not work during leaves of absence, except as provided in 8.3 above. Any employee failing to return at the end of any leave of absence may be terminated.
8.9	An employee who, for medical reasons, is unable to return to work upon expiration of Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation Board benefits shall retain all rights provided for in Article 10.10.
ARTICLE 9 -JURY SERVICE
9.1	An employee summoned to jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such service and the amount of basic wages they would normally have earned had they been scheduled to work on such days. The employee shall report for work when not required by the Court providing there is not less than two (2) hours remaining in his or her normal work shift. Time worked on the job in excess of eight (8) hours combined with such service and time worked on the job in one day shall be considered overtime and paid at applicable overtime rates.
ll
In order to be eligible for the foregoing benefit, an employee must notify their supervisor, as soon as possible after receipt of notice, of selection for jury duty or after receipt of subpoena to appear as a witness.
ARTICLE 10 - HEALTH AND WELFARE AND SICK LEAVE
10.1	Accumulated Sick Leave Benefits
a.	Full-time employees shall accumulate sick leave credits at the rate of four (4) hours for each month of employment up to a maximum of two hundred and eight (208) hours. Effective January 1, 1990 notwithstanding the foregoing, an employee shall not accumulate sick leave credits during any month that they are absent due to non-occupational sickness or accident. Credits shall commence to accumulate from date of full-time employment, but can only be applied after completion of a three (3) month full-time employment eligibility period.
Sick leave pay will only be paid for the second or third working day of any illness to which sick leave credits apply. Consistent with the foregoing and to serve as clarification, sick leave credits will not be paid for the first eight (8) hours of any absence to which sick leave credits apply.
b.	The Employer may require the employee to provide a Doctor's certificate verifying any absence due to disability and/or illness.
c.	The Employer shall apply any accumulated sick leave of absences due to sickness not covered by INSURED V\£EKLY INDEMNITY BENEFITS (or similar benefits) and may supplement Weekly Indemnity Benefits (or similar benefits) with unused SICK LEAVE CREDITS in an amount equal to but not to exceed the employee's normal earnings.
d.	Employees, if found abusing this privilege, shall be disciplined by the Employer. In such cases, the Employer may discontinue or reduce the benefit of the employee or terminate the employee. However, such discontinuance, reduction or termination shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
e.	Full-time employees shall, on request, be given an accurate record of their accumulated sick leave credits.
10.2	Retirement Plan
The Employer agrees to participate in and contribute to the Canadian Commercial Workers'
Industry Pension Plan:
a.	Effective January 1, 2001, the Employer agrees to contribute to the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan 75<|: per hour until December 28, 2002".
12
Effective December29, 2002* until January 3, 2004 - 78<|: per hour;
Effective January 4, 2004* until January 1, 2005 - 81<(: per hour;
Effective January 2, 2005 - 85(f per hour.
(*Payment has been made retroactively)
for all hours worked or paid by the Employer to its employees in the bargaining unit including any overtime hours worked in a week (to the maximum of the basic work week), vacation, general holidays, sick days (not including Weekly Indemnity, LTD or other similar indemnifications), jury duty and any paid leave of absence required under the terms of the Collective Agreement.
Contributions are required for each hour overtime is worked and paid to the extent the cumulative hours worked and paid to not exceed the basic work week.
The maximum number of hours for which contributions are to be made in a week is the maximum number of hours of the basic work week for a full-time employee.
b.	Effective January 1, 2002, contributions paid with respect to part-time vacation pay shall be remitted on an annual basis within one (1) calendar month of part-time employees receiving their vacation pay.
It is understood that contributions paid with respect to part-time vacation pay shall only be made on behalf of employees who are in the employ of the Company as of the date vacation pay is paid.
Contributions paid with respect to part-time vacation pay shall be based on the percentage of vacation pay paid under the applicable Collective Bargaining Agreement, (e.g. 4%, 6%, etc.) of the hours worked in the previous year multiplied by the cents per hour contribution rate on the above effective date as indicated in
10.2	(a) (e.g. an employee having worked or been paid for 1000 hours in the previous year and who was entitled to 4% vacation pay would be entitled to receive an additional 40 hours' credit into his/her previous yearly total). The C.C.W.I.P.P administrator would credit said part-time employee with 40 additional hours and received 40 times the applicable contribution rate from the Employer. Therefore, for the previous year the employee, in this example, would be credited with a total of 1040 hours.
c.	The above rates of contribution shall be in addition to any obligation which the Employer may have to the C.C.W.I Pension Plan in respect to his “initial past service liability” to provide past service benefits.
d.	Contributions, along with a list of employees for whom they have been made, the amount of weekly contribution for each employee, and the number of hours worked or paid according to the above a. to c., shall be forwarded by the Employer within the twenty-one (21) days after the close of the Employer's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period. The Employer agrees to pay interest at the rate established by the Trustees on all contributions not remitted as stipulated above.
13
Dental Plan
Coverage under the Union Plan shall be determined by the Trustees of the Plan. Effective the beginning of the Employer's first full four (4) or five (5) week accounting period following ratification the Employer agrees to contribute to the Dental Plan twenty-seven cents (27£) per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days, [not including Weekly Indemnity] jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
Effective the first of the Employer's four (4) week accounting period following ratification (June 14, 1992) increase the contribution rate to the Dental Plan to twenty-nine cents (29<J:) per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days, [not including Weekly Indemnity], jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
Effective the first of the Employer's four (4) week accounting period following August 31,
1992	increase the contribution rate to the Dental Plan to thirty-one cents (31£) per hour for all hours paid by the Employerto members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days, [not including Weekly Indemnity] jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
Effective the first of the Employer's four (4) week accounting period following August 31,
1993	increase the contribution rate to the Dental Plan to thirty-three cents (33ft) per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days, [not including Weekly Indemnity] jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
Effective the first of the Employer's four (4) week accounting period following August 31,
1994	increase the contribution rate to the Dental Plan to thirty-five cents (35f£) per hour for all hours paid by the Employerto members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days, [not including Weekly Indemnity] jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
Effective the first of the Employer's four (4) week accounting period following September 1,
1996	increase the contribution rate to the Dental Plan to thirty-seven cents (37j£) per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days, [not including Weekly Indemnity] jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
Effective the first of the Employer's four (4) week accounting period following August 31,
1997	increase the contribution rate to the Dental Plan to thirty-nine cents (39£) per hour for all hours paid by the Employer to members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days, [not including Weekly Indemnity] jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
14
Effective the first of the Employer's four (4) week accounting period following August 30, 1998 increase the contribution rate to the Dental Plan to forty one cents (41£) per hour for all hours paid by the Employerto members of the Bargaining Unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, general holidays, sick days. [not including Weekly Indemnity] jury duty, bereavement leave, etc.) to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week.
The Employer and the Union agree to the original method of selection of Employer and Union Trustees to administer the Plan. It is agreed that the terms of the Plan and its administration will be entirely the responsibility of these original Trustees or their valid replacements, provided that the Plan is administered consistently with this Collective Agreement subject to any applicable Government Law or Regulation and with the intention of meeting all of the requirements for continued registration under the Income Tax Act of Canada. Subject to the foregoing, the Employer and the Union agree to be bound by the actions taken by the Employer and the Union Trustees under the Plan.
10.3	Medical, Group Insurance and Weekly Indemnity Benefits
The Employer agrees during the term of this Collective Agreement to make available the following benefits or similar benefits as mutually agreed upon between the Union and the Employer to eligible employees regularly working full-time:
1.	A.H.C.I. or such other Medical Plan that will provide similar benefits.
2.	Group Life Insurance and Weekly Indemnity Benefits.
Effective for new disabilities commencing after the date of ratification, August 1 2000, weekly indemnity payments to be in the amount of sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the straight-time weekly wage.
3.	Supplementary Health Services Plan
Effective May 1, 1985, the Company will provide a supplementary health services plan, which includes prescription coverage of seventy percent (70%) through a drug reimbursement plan.
4.	Vision Care
The Employer shall institute a Vision Care Program which will provide up to $75.00 for expenses incurred for eyeglasses and frames limited to one (1) expense in a twenty-four (24) consecutive month period for each person insured.
Reimbursement will not be provided for any expenses incurred for sunglasses, safety glasses or any form of eyeglasses provided for cosmetic or aesthetic purposes. Those eligible shall be the employee, spouses, all unmarried children under the age of 22. All eligible employees must enroll eligible dependents when the Plan is established.
15
5.	Long Term Disability
The Company shall implement a Long Term Disability Plan for those employees regularly working full-time. The cost of the Plan shall be borne by the Company. The Benefit Period commences on the first day immediately following the exhaustion of Weekly Indemnity and Unemployment Insurance Benefits.
Benefits are payable to the earliest of: attainment of Age 65, death, recovery or attainment of that age at which the Employee may retire from any private pension plan to which the Company contributes on an unreduced pension or the equivalent of an unreduced pension through a supplemental payment.
The total disability income is equal to 50% of base weekly earnings at the date of disability up to a maximum of $1,000 per month.
The total disability income is inclusive of any disability payments, including lump sum payments, from Government sponsored Plans. Government sponsored Plans include Workers' Compensation, Canada Pension Plan, Quebec Pension Plan, or any other group disability Plan or income replacement program, the cost of which the Employer is or may be required to contribute by Law or Collective Agreement. The amount of any payment received from the Canada Pension Plan or the Quebec Pension Plan are to be frozen at the commencement of disability so that subsequent increase in CPP/QPP will not further reduce benefit payments under the Long Term Disability Income Plan.
It is understood and agreed that all matters of eligibility, coverage and benefits shall be as set out in the Plan and as determined by the carrier. The Employer to pay one hundred per cent (100%) of cost, as above.
10.4 A full-time employee reduced to part-time shall be eligible for benefits to which they may be entitled as set out in the Plan referred to in Section 3.
10.5	The Employer agrees to advise the Union, in writing, of the Company's Weekly Indemnity and Group Insurance Plan for all eligible employees covered by this Agreement, and of such changes as may be made from time to time.
The parties agree that the full amount of the reduction in the U.I.C. premiums, resulting from the registration of the Company Group Insurance Plan, will be applied towards the cost of Welfare Plan Benefits.
10.6	Should the Federal or Provincial Government introduce legislation, the effect of which is to supplement or overlap existing Welfare Plans, the parties signatory to this Agreement agree to immediately discuss modification so that the total cost of the combined Plans shall be limited to the level outlined in this Collective Agreement, and the Company's contribution will accordingly be reduced by the amount of the supplement. Such change shall be effective as of the date that the Plan involved is altered because of legislation referred to above.
16
10.7	Hearing Aid Plan
The Company will implement a Hearing Aid Plan. The Plan will provide for the purchase of Hearing Aids obtained on the written prescription of a physician certified as an audiologist, not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) per person during the entire time the person is insured. There shall be no deductible payable by the Employee.
10.8	Workers' Compensation Board
For claims commencing prior to January 1, 1990:
Where a regular full-time worker is qualified for Workers' Compensation, the Employer shall make up the difference between the employee's regular straight-time earnings at their regular hourly rate of pay and what they receive from the Workers' Compensation Board for the first three (3) scheduled working days of absence from the job. Thereafter the Employer shall make up the difference between 75% of the employee's straight-time earnings based on their regular hourly rate of pay and what they receive from the Workers' Compensation Board for a period up to thirteen (13) weeks from the first day of absence due to injury on the job.
Effective for claims commencing January 1, 1990 or later:
Where a regular full-time employee is qualified for Workers' Compensation, the Employer shall make up the difference between the employee's regular straight time earnings at their regular hourly rate of pay and what they receive from the Workers' Compensation Board for the first three (3) scheduled working days of absence from the job.
The Employer will advise the Union when an employee's Workers' Compensation claim is challenged.
10.9	Physical Examinations
Where the Employer requires an employee, or applicant for employment to take a physical examination, or related examinations, Doctor's fees for such examinations shall be paid by the Employer. The first such examination shall be taken on the employee's own time. Any examination which is a direct follow-up to the first examination shall be taken on the Employer's time.
10.10	Providing that not more than a total of twenty-four (24) months have elapsed, between the return to work and the last day worked, an employee who has been absent due to illness or injury must be returned to their job without loss of seniority when capable of performing their duties. The original date of lay-off shall prevail in an instance where an employee returns to work from sickness or accident and lays off again within two (2) consecutive weeks of their return to work as a result of the same claim.
17
10.11	ALCOHOLISM, DRUG ABUSE AND MENTAL ILLNESS
The Parties agree that given the potentially dangerous work environment in the Plant the possession of and/or use of alcohol, drugs (other than those drugs that have been specifically prescribed by an accredited Medical Doctor in the Province of Alberta) or other mind and/or behavior altering substance(s) by any employee during the work day, or prior to that work day where it leaves the employee with residual impairment is not consistent with the safe operation of the Plant and is a disciplinary offense.
Notwithstanding the foregoing the Employer recognizes that alcoholism, drug addiction and mental illness are illnesses which can respond to therapy and treatment. An employee so affected shall:
a.	Recognize his/her obligation to seek recognized medical treatment when his/her illness has an adverse effect on his/her ability to satisfactorily perform the regular duties assigned to him/her, and
b.	Agree to faithfully maintain any course of recognized medical treatment or therapy prescribed for him/her.
If the employee does not respond to treatment within a reasonable time or the employee is unable to satisfactorily perform the regular duties assigned to him/her following treatment, the Employer shall have the right to terminate the employee subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
ARTICLE 11-SENIORITY
11.1	For the purpose of seniority, an employee regularly working forty (40) hours per week for a three (3) consecutive month period shall be considered a regular full-time employee. An employee regularly working 32 hours per week for a three (3) consecutive month period shall be considered a regular part-time employee.
11.2	a. In job postings, layoffs, reduction to part-time and recall of full-time employees,
length of continuous service with the Employer shall govern unless there is a less senior full-time employee whose fitness, qualifications and ability to perform the job are greater.
b.	Department Seniority shall be applied in determining promotions, demotions, and transfers within a department.
c.	Plant Seniority shall be applied in determining layoffs and re-hiring, promotions and transfers between departments. An employee transferred by the Company to another department shall retain their seniority in the department from which transferred for a period of six (6) months. Plant seniority shall govern all employees except Maintenance personnel. As an exception to the foregoing the Company and the Union recognize the difficulty in replacing trained order selectors and agree that during the three week Christmas period department seniority shall govern layoffs in the order selecting department.
18
11.3	Employees regularly working full-time who are laid off or reduced to part-time in accordance with the above provision shall be called to work in order of length of service provided:
i.	they are capable of performing the work,
ii.	subject to Section (5), not more than twelve (12) months has elapsed since the last day worked by employee.
iii.	the Employer shall notify the Union if they cannot contact an employee with seniority, and shall provide the Union with the last known address and telephone number of such employee in order to ensure that every endeavor has been made to call the employee to work. If t he Union is unable to contact the employee within five (5) working days immediately following receipt of advice from the Employer, or if the employee is contacted and refuses the employment without proper and sufficient reason by the end of the five (5) day period, the employee will be dropped from the Seniority List. The twelve (12) months or the five (5) day deadline, respectively, shall be extended if upon recall an employee is unable to report due to illness or accident. Any extension granted shall only be for the duration of the illness or incapacity from accident and the Employer may require the employee to provide written confirmation from a Doctor of such illness or accident.
iv.	such employees rehired within twelve (12) months of their lay-off shall retain their previous length of service for the purpose of this Article.
v.	employees who have suffered a non work-related injury following their lay-off and are unable to report for work when recalled will retain their right to recall for an additional six (6) months. An employee must be prepared to substantiate his case through a medical report.
11.4	The Employer, when reducing hours of work, agrees he will not reduce the regular scheduled hours of full-time employees for the purpose of replacing such hours with parttime.
11.5	The Employer will endeavor to give two (2) week's written notice, but not less than one (1) week's notice, prior to changing an employee's status from full-time to a part-time basis.
11.6	Regular part-time employees who desire to become full-time employees, or increase their hours of work, shall inform the Employer in writing with a copy to the Union. The Employer agrees to give full consideration to the employee's request, before hiring new employees, provided however, that such written request has been received prior to the date of the last hire.
11.7	Any full-time or regular part-time employee, who is laid off or fails to receive hours of work to which they are entitled according to the foregoing understanding, shall be compensated for the hours involved in any such violation at their regular rate of pay.
11.8	An employee's seniority shall terminate upon the occurrence of the following events:
19
i.	Employee voluntarily resigns or is terminated.
ii.	Employee fails to return to work in accordance with recall procedure (ARTICLE 11.3, 3.), the Employer reserves the right to temporarily fill the position until the recall employee reports.
iii.	Employee has not been on the active payroll of the Employer for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months.
iv 11 will be the responsibility of each employee to keep the Company and the Union advised at all times of his current address and telephone number, either temporary or permanent.
11.9	Employer agrees to notify the Union, within five (5) working days, of all lay-offs, discharges and recalls of full-time employees.
11.10	Where two (2) or more employees have the same service date, the employee with the lowest permanent payroll number assigned by the Company shall be considered to have the longest length of service. When two or more employees are hired on the same date, their seniority shall be determined by alphabetical order of surname, at date of hire.
11.11	The Employer agrees to provide the Union with separate Seniority Lists with payroll numbers for each department on June 1st, and December 1 st of each year. The Seniority Lists to contain information as per Appendix "B" cf this Collective Agreement.
11.12	When job vacancies occur, including that of Lead Hand, in the Plant and the Employer requires replacements, and when the Employer creates new job classifications, they shall be posted on the Bulletin Board within seven (7) days for a period of three (3) working days during which time applications may be made by the employees. Such applications made shall receive first consideration within the department concerned. If no suitable applications are received, then the Company may hire a person to fill the job. It is understood to apply for a posting in the Maintenance Department, an employee must be fully qualified and with the exception of the Improver and classifications must either hold a valid Alberta certificate or a valid certificate from another Province. I n the case of Lead Hand vacancies, the Company retains the sole right to determine who is qualified for such vacancy.
Temporary appointments may be made by the Employer pending receipt of applications. Employees absent on vacation or on Union business shall be granted the right to bid for a job posting during their absence for a period of thirty (30) days following the appointment to the job vacancy, or within three (3) working days after their return to work, whichever is the shorter period.
Subject to the foregoing paragraphs a period of no longer than one (1) month shall elapse between the close of competition for the posting and the filling of the job by the successful applicant.
An employee who received a promotion through the posting procedure shall not be permitted to apply again until six (6) consecutive months have elapsed. Only the original
20
vacancy and the job from which the promotion was made shall be posted. Any vacancies created beyond the second posting will not be posted, but will be filled in accordance with the terms of Article 11.2.
An employee receiving a new job posting will be on a trial basis for up to sixty (60) working days. If they cannot perform the job satisfactorily, they shall be returned to their previous job, or at their own request. Unsuccessful applicants who wish to know why they were not selected to fill a particularjob may ask for and will receive an explanation.
ARTICLE 12 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
12.1	No employee shall be disciplined or terminated without just cause. Disciplinary warnings shall be in writing and a copy shall be given to the employee. An employee will be informed of the reasons for their termination, suspension or disciplinary warning. The Union will be notified in writing of all terminations, suspensions or disciplinary warnings.
12.2	In the event the employee or the Union feels that the suspension, reprimand or termination is not proper, the matter may be presented as a grievance pursuant to Article 17. Any grievance which is not presented within thirty (30) days after the occurrence of the event which gave rise to the grievance, or within fourteen (14) days of the last day worked in the case of dismissal shall be forfeited and waived by the aggrieved party.
12.3	In the event that any employee has been terminated without just cause, they shall be reinstated and shall receive pay for time lost following termination and prior to reinstatement, in an amount sufficient to make up the difference between any monies received by that employee concerning employment, and their full pay.
12.4	Termination of any employee during the first sixty (60) working days of their employment, or any extended period mutually agreed upon shall not be subject to challenge by the Union or the employee under the terms of this Collective Agreement and the grievance procedure will not be applicable in such termination.
ARTICLE 13 - SEVERANCE PAY
13.1	Severance Pay On Closing Of Plant
In the event there is a permanent closure of the Plant, or part thereof, causing a regular full-time employee to lose their employment, the Company hereby agrees to pay such an employee severance pay at his or her regular rate of pay according to the following schedule:
Full-Time Consecutive Service	Severance Pay
Up to one (1) year Over one (1) year
One (1) week
One week's pay for every year of full-time service to a maximum of twelve (12) weeks
This clause does not apply to a temporary layoff, full-time employees who accept other fulltime or part-time employment with the Company, or to regular full-time employees who lose employment and are reinstated within thirty (30) days to a full-time status.
Employees who qualify shall not be entitled to the following benefits contained in the following Sections pertaining to normal termination.
The Employer will not reduce an employee from full-time to part-time for the purpose of avoiding the payment of the foregoing severance pay due a full-time employee.
13.2	Employees regularly working full-time, upon termination by the Employer, except employees terminated for just cause, which shall include, but not be limited to dishonesty, drunkenness, or drinking intoxicants during working hours, or insubordination, shall be given individual notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof, as follows:
i.	One (l)weeks' notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed sixty (60) days' service but less than two (2) years' service,
ii.	Two (2) weeks' notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed two (2) or more years' service,
iii.	Four (4) weeks' notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed four (4) or more consecutive years of service,
iv.	Five (5) weeks' notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed six (6) or more consecutive years of service,
v.	Six (6) weeks' notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed eight (8) or more consecutive years of service,
vi.	Eight (8) weeks' notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof to those who have completed ten (10) or more consecutive years of service.
Int he case of a part-time employee the average of the employee's earnings for the last thirteen (13) weeks of employment, excluding periods of approved leave of absence (eg. maternity leave, W.I., W.C.B., vacation) immediately preceding the date of termination, shall be used in determining the sum paid to the employee in lieu of insufficient notice.
13.3	Termination notice to be given in writing to become effective from the date the employee receives such notice.
13.4	Employees regularly working full-time reduced to part-time who terminate or are terminated within three (3) months of the date of their reduction to part-time, shall be given whatever pay in lieu of notice they were entitled to, immediately prior to the date of their reduction to part-time.
13.5	This Section shall not be deemed to invalidate an employee's right under ARTICLE 17, Grievance Procedure.
22
ARTICLE 14 - VACATIONS
14.1	Effective June 1, 1983, vacation schedule shall be set up as follows:
two (2) weeks after one three (3) weeks after five four (4) weeks after ten five (5) weeks after twenty six (6) weeks after twenty-five
(1) year of service (5) years of service (10) years of service (20) years of service (25) years of service
It is agreed that three (3) weeks after five (5) years will be changed to three (3) weeks after one (1) year if proclaimed by the Government of Alberta and to be effective the day of proclamation.
14.2	For the purpose of vacation allowance, employees regularly working full-time means an employee who has completed one (1) calendar year's continuous service with the Employer comprising not less than two hundred and twenty-five (225) days of actual work.
14.3	Authorized time off for sickness or non-occupational accidents, of not more than twenty-six (26) weeks shall not be interpreted as a break in or interruption of service. Time lost on paid vacation, Statutory Holidays, or due to occupational accidents shall be considered as time worked for purposes of determining vacation eligibility to which full-time employees are eligible.
14.4	Vacations shall be scheduled from April 1st to September 30th, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the Employer and the employee. So far as practical and consistent with the Employer maintaining an efficient operation, vacations shall be granted during the period of time requested by the employees. The applications for vacation shall be granted on the basis of, and in order of, respective employee's seniority in selection of vacation dates, except that final determination of vacation dates shall be made by the Employer in line with existing conditions. Further, effective January 1, 1979, employees entitled to three (3), four (4) or more weeks vacation may take three (3) consecutive weeks between the dates as outlined above.
Subject to the foregoing, employees who are entitled to four (4) weeks vacation will have the right to schedule four (4) weeks consecutively during the period October 1 to March 31.
Subject to the preceding two paragraphs, effective 1997 vacation year, employees shall be required to submit their preference for vacation to their immediate Supervisor, on a department basis, on or before February 1 in each year. The Company shall post approved vacation schedules on or before February 28 cf that year. The scheduling of vacations shall be granted based on Company seniority. Vacation requests received after February 28 shall be scheduled, based on the date the application is received, on a first received first scheduled basis.
The Company will post a reminder notice regarding the above on January 1 of each year.
23
14.5	Vacations will be taken in periods of not less than one (1) week's duration. Vacation allowance to be two percent (2%) of total salary and wages for each week of vacation entitlement or forty (40) hours at employee's regular rate of pay, if greater.
14.6	When a Statutory Holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee will be entitled to an extra day of vacation, or pay in lieu thereof, however, the employee at the time they request their vacation must inform the Employer of their request and the granting of such request must be by mutual agreement.
14.7	Employees shall, upon termination of employment, receive a vacation allowance in the amount of two percent (2%) for each week of entitlement for which no vacation allowance has been paid.
____ICLE 15 - WORKING CONDITIONS - GENERAL
15.1	A Joint Labour-Management Safety Committee, consisting of representatives of the Employer and the employees, shall be established and have at least five (5) employees selected from employees within the bargaining unit, and such Safety Committee shall operate consistent with regulations of and with the assistance of the Health and Safety Inspection Branch. Regular meetings shall be held at least once a month and copies of the minutes to be posted and mailed to Union office.
15.2	The Employer agrees to provide suitable space for posting Union notices which notices shall first receive approval of Management. The Employer agrees to promptly post such notice.
15.3	The Employer agrees that he will fully comply with any Law requiring that employees be given time off to vote.
15.4	It shall be the duty and responsibility of all employees to cooperate and assist in maintaining in good condition such equipment, utilities and conveniences used by such employees. Employees shall refrain from misusing or defacing them and any conduct which would render unsanitary any such equipment, utensil or convenience.
15.5	Union Plant Visits
Duly authorized full-time representatives of the Union shall be entitled to visit the Plant for the purpose of observing working conditions, interviewing members and unsigned employees, and to ensure that the terms of the Collective Agreement are being implemented.
Any interview of any employee by the Union Representative shall be permissible after first contacting the Plant Manager or in his absence the person in charge and shall:
a.	not interfere with the employee's work. However, if it is not practical to discuss the matter while the employee is working, then such interview shall;
b.	be carried on in a place in the Plant designated by the Manager;
24
c.	be held whenever possible during the lunch period. However, if this is not practical;
d.	be during the regular working hours. Time taken for such an interview in excess of five (5) minutes shall not be on Company time unless with the approval of Management.
15.6	Union Representatives shall be permitted to review the Hours of Work Schedules and Time Cards and in the event of any discrepancies, they shall be presented under ARTICLE 17 of this Agreement.
15.7 The Company shall furnish only those tools and safety equipment which it considers necessary for the performance of the work by the employees, and shall establish regulations in respect thereto. All tools furnished shall remain Company property.
15.8	The Company shall supply major and special tools for the Maintenance Department as the Company may decide. The Company shall pay to each Maintenance employee a yearly tool allowance of $200.00. This allowance will be paid each January 1 and will be prorated for those who have less than 12 month's service as of each January 1.
Effective January 1, 2001 the tool allowance will increaseto $250.
15.9	Wearing Apparel
The Company shall furnish and launder gowns and aprons for each employee as specified by the Company as required for work in the Plant. Such apparel remains the property of the Company and shall not be removed from the Company's premises except in the regular performance of duty and must be returned for new issue or upon separation of the employee^
Proper footwear as specified by the Company, such as rubber boots, shall be provided to those employees that the Company feels have need of such footwear. The employee must turn in their work boots when requesting a replacement. Such replacement shall be made as deemed necessary by the Company.
Effective August 30, 1998, provide for safety boot allowance of forty dollars $40.00 once per year.
Effective January 1, 2001 provide for safety boot allowance of fifty dollars $50.00 once per year. The employee shall be responsible for the first pair of safety boots purchased.
15.10	The Union agrees that the Company may utilize non-union personnel as management trainees for the purpose of becoming familiar with overall Plant operations, providing members of the bargaining unit are not displaced from their jobs or have their regular hours reduced when such personnel are employed in the above capacity. Such management trainees will be limited in numberto a maximum of two (2) at any onetime.
25
ARTICLE 16 - UNION'S RECOGNITION CF MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS
The Union agrees that the Management of the Company including the right to plan and direct and control Plant operations, the direction of the working force, and the discharge of employees for just cause are the sole rights and functions of the Employer. Those matters requiring judgment as to competency of employees are also agreed to be the sole right and function of Management, subject however, to discharge of employees on grounds of alleged incompetence being processed under ARTICLES 17 and 18 of this Agreement.
The parties agree that the foregoing enumeration of Management's rights shall not be deemed to exclude other recognized functions of Management not specifically covered by this Agreement. The Employer, therefore, retains all rights not otherwise specifically covered in this Agreement.
The exercise of the foregoing shall not alter any of the specific provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 17 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
17.1	It i s agreed that the employees covered hereby and/or their accredited representatives and Employer, all have the right to present grievances one to the other.
17.2	Grievances under this Article refer to and mean any differences, disputes, or complaints arising over the interpretation, application or reading of the provisions of this Agreement. In such instances, an earnest effort will be made to settle all matters promptly in the manner hereinafter outlined.
Step 1
The aggrieved employee, or the Union, shall take the matter up with the Foreman or Superintendent in charge, at which time the employee may be accompanied by a member of the grievance committee, it being clearly understood that all employees must carry out the orders of the Foreman or Superintendent in charge, pending settlement of any dispute.
Step 2
If the grievance is not settled within forty-eight (48) working hours, a signed copy of the written grievance shall be delivered to the Manager or his representative, who shall within three (3) days following receipt thereof meet with the grievance committee and attempt to settle the grievance. At this meeting, the Union Representative or Secretary of the Union may be present at the request of either party.
Step 3
If agreement is not reached, the matter shall be referred to the Industrial Relations Department of the Company. If no settlement is reached within fourteen (14) working days, or such other period to be mutually agreed to, then the grievance shall be referred to Arbitration as outlined in ARTICLE 18.
26
17.3	Grievances must be reduced to writing by the employee, or the Union in order to be considered under Steps 1, 2, and 3.
17.4	Grievances shall be presented promptly after the occurrence of the event which gave rise to the grievance but not later than thirty (30) days.
17.5	In t he event a grievance arises on behalf of the Employer, the matter shall be presented to the Union Business Representative who shall have fourteen (14) working days from the date of submission to reconcile and end all grievances.
17.6	The time limits specified herein may be extended by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union.
17.7	All settlements shall be final and binding on all parties concerned.
ARTICLE 1 - ARBITRATION
18.1	If a satisfactory settlement cannot be reached, or if the party to whom the grievance has been served, fails to meet the other party within fourteen (14) days of receiving the written grievance, either party may, by written notice, served upon the other, require submission of a grievance of a Board of Arbitration, or to a single Arbitrator acceptable to both parties.
18.2	The Board of Arbitration shall be composed of three (3) members and shall be established in the following manner:
a.	within ten (10) days (excluding Sundays and Holidays) following receipt of notice to arbitrate, the Employer and the Union each shall select a representative to serve on the Board of Arbitration. The Representatives so selected shall within five (5) days, (excluding Sundays and Holidays) meet and choose an additional person to act as Chairman of the Board of Arbitration.
b.	in the event of the Representatives of the Union and the Employer failing to agree upon a Chairman within the five (5) day period above specified, the Minister of Labour shall immediately be requested to name a third member who shall act as Chairman of the Board of Arbitration.
18.3	Within five (5) days of the selection or appointment of the Chairman, the Board of Arbitration shall sit to consider the matter in dispute and shall render its decision within fourteen (14) days following its first session.
18.4	No person shall serve on the Board of Arbitration who is involved or directly interested in the dispute under consideration. Grievances submitted to the Board of Arbitration shall be in writing and shall clearly specify the nature of the issue.
18.5	In reaching a decision, the Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with the power to vary, change, supplement, modify, alter, or amend this Agreement in any of its parts, but shall interpret this Agreement with respect to the issue.
27
18.6	All expenses of the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration shall be shared equally between the Company and the Union.
18.7	It is understood and agreed that the time limits as set forth herein may be altered by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union.
18.8	The decision and findings of the Board of Arbitration shall be final, binding and enforceable on all parties.
ARTICLE 19 - SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
19.1	This Agreement shall be binding upon the purchaser, or transferee as provided in Section 44 of the Labour Relations Code.
ARTICLE 20 ■ NON-DISCRIMINATION
20.1	The appropriate sections of the Alberta Labour Relations Code (as amended) and The Alberta Human Rights, Citizenship and Multiculturalism Act are hereby recognized.
ARTICLE L - rE .IT
21.1	If any part of this Agreement is rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted Legislation, valid Government Regulation or Order, or by decree of a Court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidation of such part of the Agreement shall not affect or invalidate any of the remaining parts thereof, and the same shall continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 22
a.	WORK STOPPAGES
During the life of this Agreement, there shall b no strikes, slow down or I ckout of employees.
b.	PROTECTIVE SERVICES
In the event of any strike, walkout or stoppage of work, the Union shall not do or permit to be done anything by any of its members to prevent powerhouse staff such as firemen, engineers, and an electrician from continuing all or any part of their regular duties in the service of this Company. Furthermore, the Union shall cooperate and assist the Company in taking reasonable precautions to protect perishable products, but such assistance shall only extend through such periods as the Company does not attempt to restore regular production.
28
The Company and the Union agree in respect to the renewal of this and future Collective Agreements as follows:
i.	The Union agrees to give the employer seventy-two (72) hours' notice of the date and time the strike will commence as required by the Labour Relations Code.
ii.	The Employer agrees to give the Union seventy-two (72) hours' notice of the date and time the lockout will commence as required by the Labour Relations Code.
ARTICLE 23 - DU RATION AND RENEWAL
23.1	The Agreement shall be effective from August 31, 2003 until August 30, 2008 and shall remain in force thereafter from year to year, but either party may, not less than sixty (60) days before the expiry date, or renewal date of such Agreement give notice, in writing, to the other party to terminate such Agreement or to negotiate a revision thereof.
If notice to negotiate, following any notice to terminate, has been given by either party, (prior to date of such termination) or if notice to amend had been given by either party, this Agreement shall not be altered until a new Collective Agreement is reached or a party lawfully strikes or locks out pursuant to the provisions of the Alberta Labour Act and the provisions of ARTICLE 22.
Dated this Zg^dav of	, 2005 in the City of Calgary, Alberta.
behalf of the Company:
Signed on behalf of the Union
29
APPENDIX A
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
General Wage Increases/ Retroactivity
Employees who are actively employed as of the date 01 ratification and were full-time as of August 29, 2004, will receives lumpsum payment of $1,200.00 less statutory deduction.
Employees who are actively employed and are full-time as of the date of ratification, but were not fulltime as of August 29, 2004 will receives lumpsum payment of $900.00 less statutory deductions.
Part-time employees who are actively employed as of the date of ratification will receive a lump sum payment less statutory deductions in accordance with average hours worked during the 12 week period of October 10, 2004 to December04, 2004 based on the table below:
8 to 15.99 16 to 23.99 24 to 31.99
(average weekly hours) (average weekly hours) (average weekly hours)
32 and above (average weekly hours)
$200.00 less statutory deductions $400.00 less statutory deductions $600.00 less statutory deductions
$800.00 less statutory deductions
Effective the Sunday following the date of ratification:
Top rates in each classification will be increased by $0.55 per hour. Effective August 27,2006:
Top rates in each classification will be increased by $0.30 per hour. Effective September 02,2007:
Top rates in each classification will be increased by $0.25 per hour.
30
General Labour (G			)		
Hours	Current (Pre-Ratification	January 2, 2005	August 27, 2006	September 2, 2007
Start	9.25	9.25	9.25	9.25
After 1040	10.40	10.40	10.40	10.40
After 2080	11.56	11.56	11.56	11.56
After 2773	12.71	12.71	12.71	12.71
After 3467	13.87	13.87	13.87	13.87
After 4160	15.02	15.57	15.87	16.12
General Lahour (0) to include:
Cleaning of all areas in prefab processing and receiving - Laundry - Trolley Wash - Unloading (beef quarters) - Boxing (ground beef) - Palletizing (ground beef) - Throwing (beef quarters at saw) -Stamper - Frozen grinder operator - Mechanical Meat Separator - Box make, Janitor [Letter Of Understanding #11 Re: Janitors],
Beef Trimmer (2'				
Hours	Current (Pre-Ratification	January 2, 2005	August 27, 2006	September 2, 2007
Start	9.41	9.41	9.41	9.41
After 1040	10.56	10.56	10.56	10.56
After 2080	11.72	11.72	11.72	11.72
After 2773	12.87	12.87	12.87	12.87
After 3467	14.03	14.03	14.03	14.03
After 4160	15.18	15.73	16.03	16.28
Beef Trimmer
Drop skirts, trim all skirts, fat trim table, trim cuts or quarters for receiving, trim cuts for stew or ground beef, trim sorter.
Miscellaneous (4				
Hours	Current (Pre-Ratification	January 2, 2005	August 27, 2006	September 2, 2007
Start	9.57	9.57	9.57	9.57
After 1040	10.72	10.72	10.72	10.72
After 2080	11.88	11.88	11.88	11.88
After 2773	13.03	13.03	13.03	13.03
After 3467	14.19	14.19	14.19	14.19
After 4160	15.34	15.89	16.19	16.44
31
Sausage Room
Effective March 25,1996, all Sausage Room employees to be paid the miscellaneous (4) rate of pay.
Effective Sunday after ratification, August 1, 2000, the Parts Person is to be considered part of the Maintenance Department.
Liver Trimmer, Coined Beef and			ickle 1 laker (5)	
Hours	Current (Pre-Ratification	January 2, 2005	August 27, 2006	September 2, 2007
Start	9.65	9.65	9.65	9.65
After 1040	10.80	10.80	10.80	10.80
After 2080	11.96	11.96	11.96	11.96
After 2773	13.11	13.11	13.11	13.11
After 3467	14.27	14.27	14.27	14.27
After 4160	15.42	15.97	16.27	16.52
Forklift Operator (7) Raymond Operator (8)
16.76
32
Apprentices and Journeymen (11)				
Hours	(Pre-Ratification	January 2, 2005	August 27, 2006	September 2, 2007
Start	10.13	10.13	10.13	10.13
After 1040	11.28	11.28	11.28	11.28
After 2080	12.44	12.44	12.44	12.44
After 2773	13.59	13.59	13.59	13.59
After 3467	14.75	14.75	14.75	14.75
After 4160 (11)	15.90	16.45	16.75	17.00
Sawman (13)	16.06	16.61	16.91	17.16
Hours	Current (Pre-Ratification	Within 3 weeks of Sunday following DOR	August 27, 2006	September 2, 2007
Electrician (Lead Hand)	19.75	22.55	22.85	23.10
Millwright w/certificate	18.95	20.75	21,05	21.30
Electrician	18.95	20.75	21.05	21.30
Journeyman Maintenance	18.95	20.75	21.05	21.30
3rd Class Engineer	18.95	20.75	21.05	21.30
4th Class Engineer	17.70	19.55	19.85	20.10
Hours
Service Technician#! Service Technician #2 Service Technician #3 Service Technician #4
16.95
17.20
17.45
17.50
17.75
18.00
August 27, I September 2,
2006
17.55
17.80
18.05
18.30
2007
17.80
18.05
18.30
18.55
Effective March 25 1996, a maintenance employee will receive a flat pay adjustment cf $25.00 when required to be on standby for the weekend.
NOTE:	Progression hours will include those hours on which the Employer makes pension
contributions and any WCB absence to a maximum cf the employee's next wage increase.
33
<:	FOR PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE
New employees may be classified according to previous comparable experience.
When an employee is transferred to a higher rated job classification, they will be paid the corresponding progression rate (start, 6 month, 12 month, 16 month, 20 month, top rate) for that job classification.
Similarly when an employee is transferred to a lower job classification, they will be paid the corresponding progression rate for that job classification.
NIGHTPREMIUM is35£.
LEAD MAN - To be paid 25<t per hour over the highest regular classified rate in the Department he is leading.
BRACKET (15) BONERS
DEFINITION OF BRACKET (15) WORK
An employee who completely debones rib eyes, strip loins, top butts, chef style ribs, and splits hips shall receive the Bracket (15) rate of pay. Subject to the foregoing definition, only those employees who perform Bracket (15) work shall receive the Bracket (15) rate of pay. Further the Bracket (15) rate of pay shall only be paid to an employee when they perform Bracket (15) work. Notwithstanding Article 7.3 any employee assigned Bracket (15) work will be paid Bracket (15) rate of pay for all time so worked (Effective January 1, 1990.) Employees shall be entitled to perform Bracket (15) work and receive the Bracket (15) rate of pay in accordance with the following:
Firstly, those employees who are presently doing Bracket (15) work at the Bracket (15) rate of pay shall be given first right of refusal for such work.
Secondly, those employees who, in the previous Agreement received the Bracket (15) rate of pay but are not currently performing Bracket (15) work, will have the opportunity to perform Bracket (15) work. An employee in this group will be given a maximum trial period of two (2) weeks to demonstrate their proficiency and entitlement to the Bracket (15) rate of pay when requested to do that work.
Thirdly, those employees who constitute the Bracket (15) replacement pool shall be afforded an opportunity to demonstrate their proficiency and entitlement to the Bracket (15) rate of pay when requested to do that work.
34
APPENDIX B
DEPARTMENTS
■	Prefab
■	Processing
Ground
Sausage
Patties
Cooked Meats
■	Shipping and Receiving * Sanitation
■	Maintenance
35
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
JOB TRAINING
The Employer will undertake to provide the opportunity for senior employees to train in a classification other than their own, so that in the event of a lay-off, they shall have the qualifications to exercise their seniority and work outside their normal job classification.
It is understood that hours worked, either while receiving instruction or working outside their normal job classification will be paid at the top rate for that job.
36
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#2
JOINT LABOUR/MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Employer and the Union agree to form a Joint Labour/Management Committee consisting of four (4) members (including a full-time representative of the Union) representing the Union and four (4) members representing Lucerne Foods Ltd.
The Joint Labour/Management Committee shall meet not less than (4) times per year or at such other times as are mutually agreed.
The members of the Committee shall discuss items of concern arising from the Operation of the Facilities covered by the Collective Agreement.
Either party shall inform the other of items on the Agenda, at least three (3) days in advance, of any scheduled meeting.
37
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
TRANSFER/PROMQTION TO MEAT CUTTER/SAWMAN
When an employee who has no experience as a Meat Cutter or Sawman posts for one of those positions and is accepted his/her wage rate will be the "2080 hour" rate on the new respective wage rate scale for a period of sixty (60) working days. Upon successful completion of the initial training period they will be paid the rate of pay that they received in their prior classification. He/she shall not receive an increase in wage rate in the new wage rate scale until their experience as a Meat Cutter or Sawman qualifies them for the next higher rate.
38
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
JOB POSTINGS - VACATION RELIEF
Employees, hired for vacation relief, will be advised of their status at the time of hire. The Union will be supplied with the names and hire dates of those hired for vacation relief. If an employee, hired for vacation relief, is kept beyond the probationary period, a posting must occur at that time unless it can be shown that a permanentjob does not exist.
39
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#5
PART-TIME BMPLOYEES
The Company agrees that the employment of part-time employees shall be governed by the following terms and conditions.
1.	DEFINITION AND HOURS OF WORK
A part-time employee shall be an employee whose regular hours of work are less than 40 per week and he/she will not be covered by the provisions of Article 5.6 - Weekly Guarantee.
Seniority for part-time employees shall be defined as length of continuous service with the Employer in the bargaining unit.
2.	SCHEDULING OF PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Part-time employees will be scheduled, called-in and laid off by department in order of seniority. The minimum shift for a part-time employee will be four (4) hours.
Subject to their ability to perform the work, senior part-time employees within a department will be given the opportunity to relieve for full-time employees who are absent from work in that department.
3.	PROMOTION OF PART-TIME EMPLOYEES TO FULL-TIME STATUS
Part-time employees will be considered for promotion to full-time status in order of length of service with the Employer.
4.	DESIGNATION OF FULL-TIME JOBS
A full-time position shall exist for all purposes of the Collective Agreement when an employee has worked an average of thirty-seven (37) hours per week for thirteen (13) consecutive weeks (exclusive of replacement hours caused by the absence of a full-time employee on W.I., W.C.B., L.T.D., or Leave of Absence to a maximum of six (6) months).
5.	PROTECTION OF FULL-TIME JOBS
Part-time employees shall not be scheduled or employed to the extent that their work results in the displacement of or prevents the hiring or recall of full-time employees.
A full-time employee will not be sent home prior to completing an eight hour shift when there are part-time employees performing work in the plant that the full-time employee could do, if qualified, to complete their shift.
6.	ACQUISITION AND LOSS OF BENEFITS BY PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
A part-time employee other than a student or seasonal employee who has worked an average of thirty-two (32) hours per week for thirteen (13) consecutive weeks shall be eligible for the following:
40
Group Life Insurance and Weekly Indemnity Benefits.
Life Insurancewill be in the amount of $5,000.00. Weekly indemnity benefits will be based on a prorated full-time benefit (ie. the employees most recent 13 weekly average of hours worked as a % of 40 x full-time benefit).
ii.	Alberta Health Care.
iii.	Supplementary Health Services Plan including prescription coverage of 70% through a reimbursement plan.
iv.	Vision Care as described for full-time employees.
v.	Hearing Aids as described for full-time employees.
Part-time employees who at date of ratification were qualified for the Group Benefit Package will retain benefits held and will maintain eligibility for Group Benefits, unless voluntarily restricting their availability even though their hours of work per week average less than thirty-two (32) hours over thirteen (13) consecutive weeks.
Part-time employees who qualify for the Group Benefit Package will lose benefits or pay 100% of the cost of benefits if they do not maintain an average of thirty-two (32) hours per week for thirteen (13) consecutive weeks.
7. FULL-TIME/PART-TIME RATIO
i.	The number of part-time employees working on a weekly basis will not exceed ten (10) percent of the number of employees in the Bargaining Unit on a weekly basis. Part-time employees who relieve a full-time employee on an approved leave of absence will not be included in the ten percent calculation.
ii.	The part-time ratio of employees will be calculated on a weekly basis.
8. The Employer will administer this clause in good faith and the hiring of new part-time employees will be determined by operational needs.
Further, full-time employees who are laid off or reduced to part-time status shall, subject to Article 11.3, be offered any available part-timework before new part-time employees are hired.
41
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#6
LEAD HAND POSTINGS
When a junior employee is chosen for a lead hand posting, senior employees who are not awarded the position may request a meeting with the Employer and may request that a shop steward is present at the meeting. The purpose cf the meeting will be to discuss the reasons why the employee was not chosen and areas for improvement.
42
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #7
LOCKER CHECKS
The Company agrees that a shop steward shall be present for all locker checks. Normally locker checks will be posted, however, not in all cases.
43
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #8
CRITERIA FOR IMPROVER (SERVICE TECHNICIAN) CLASSIFICATIONS (1 through 4)
Advancement through the Packaging Equipment Course (PEC) will be used for determining movement through the Improver levels. Employees completing the first two sections of PEC will be eligible to advance to level two. Employees completing the third section of PEC will be eligible to advance to level three. Employees completing the entire PEC course will be eligible to advance to level four, Eligible employees will advance to the next level within two months of completing a section provided they demonstrate the ability to apply what they have learned.
Employees not participating in the PEC advance through the levels based on an improvement in their skills, ability and knowledge of the plant and plant equipment. Advancement for these employees will be limited to one level per year.
New employees will not be eligible to participate in the PEC until they have been in the maintenance department for one full year.
44
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #9
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK
The use of compressed work week schedules may be applied to departments. Implementation of a compressed work week will require the agreement of the Employer, Union and the majority of the affected employees.
A compressed work week schedule will consist of daily regularly scheduled hours of ten (10) hours and total weekly hours of forty (40) hours, except as outlined in Article 5.6. The employee will receive extra scheduled days off compared to the Basic Work Schedule and such days shall be in lieu of overtime. For employees on a compressed work week schedule, all hours worked in excess of daily or weekly regularly scheduled hours of the compressed work week schedule shall be deemed as overtime. The weekly days worked will be scheduled consecutively between Monday through Friday.
Employees working a normal ten (10) hour shift shall receive two twenty (20) minute rest periods with pay, one in the first half of the shift, and the other in the second half of the shift.
For employees working normal ten (10) hour shifts, when calculating Sick Leave or Paid Holidays, “a day“ will be considered ten (10) hours.
45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#10
RETIREMENT PIAN
If Canada Safeway Limited is party to an agreement with the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union and its Locals with respect to pension contributions to CCWIPP after the expiry of the Agreement for CCWIPP, December 31, 2005 (which agreement has been previously referred to as the master agreement), should any amendments to pension contributions be applicable during the term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement for the Lucerne Meat Plant expiring August 30, 2008, the Collective Bargaining Agreement will be amended to provide for the inclusion of those amendments.
46
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #11
JANITORS
Within three months of the date of ratification, the Company agrees to include as bargaining unit work, janitorial duties for the production, shipping and receiving areas including cleaning lunch rooms, vestibules, hallways, washrooms or other areas as directed by management (all areas except management offices).
47
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#^
NBA/ POSITIONS AFTER DECEMBER 29. 2004 ON COOKED MEATS AND SHIPPING AND
RECEIVING DEPARTMENTS /MAXIMUM OF 20)
As a means of increasing the number of full-time positions in the Meat Plant, the Company and
the Union agree that up to twenty (20) new full-time jobs can be posted in the Cooked Meats
Department and Shipping and Receiving Department under the following conditions:
i.	The positions will be filled by seniority as per the Article 11.2 (i.e. full-time employees in the department will be considered first, full-time employees in the rest of the plant will be considered second, and the part-time employees will be considered last).
ii.	As these positions become vacant, they will be filled as per Article 11.12 under the same conditions outlined in this letter.
iii.	These newly posted positions will allow for split days off and straight time pay on Saturdays and Sundays as long as a Saturday or a Sunday is part of the basic work week.
iv.	It i s understood that one of the days off will either be Saturday or Sunday.
v.	Upon request, the Company agrees to provide the Union with a list of the employees who are working in these positions
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #13
DENTAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Amendments in the level of dental contributions will be in accordance with contribution changes in the Retail Collective Agreement between U.F.C.W. Local 373A and Canada Safeway Limited.
49
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #14
THE CALM SYSTEM
The Company and the Union agree to establish a Joint Labour Management Committee to deal with issues surrounding the CALM system. The committee will be comprised of two (2) Bargaining Unit Members, the Union's Business Agent, the Shipping and Receiving Superintendent and up to two (2) other Company representatives. The committee will meet as required. Topics of discussion will include, but not be limited to:
Topics of discussion will include, but not be limited to:
•	Slotting
•	Staging
•	Preferred Methods
•	Safety Concerns
•	Delay Time
•	Training Issues
•	Communication with the other bargaining unit employees
Minutes will be kept, with copies forwarded to the Employer's Labour Relations Department and the Union office.
50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#^
MODIFIED WORK
On the first day that an employee reports to the workplace on a modified work program, after an initial visit to a doctor, there shall be a meeting involving the employee, the employee's immediate supervisor, the plant nurse and a shop steward. The Union Business Representative and Plant Superintendent may also attend. At this meeting, the parties will be made aware of the employee's modified work. The discussion will include, but not be limited to, the specific duties to be performed, the limitations that have been placed on the employee's activities, the duration of the modified work program, and the process to be used in monitoring the employee's progress.
51
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #16
PRODUCTION EMPLOYEES WISHING TO BUMP PART-TIME EMPLOYEES IN SHIPPING AND RECEIVING I N WEEKS \MHERE THE WORK WEEK I S REDUCED BY A FULL SHIFT AS PER ARTICLE 5.6 (A)
Full-time employees in production, affected by a full shift reduction under Article 5.6 (a), may request to bump a part-time employee’s shift in Shipping and Receiving on the day of the reduction provided they have the necessary skills and qualifications to perform the work. Employees wishing to bump part-time employees as indicated in the above sentence must advise Management at least three working days prior to the day of the shift reduction.
52
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
SIGNATURE PAGE
#1 JOB TRAINING
#2 JOINT LABOUR/MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE #3 TRANSFER/PROMOTION TO MEATCUTTER/SAWMAN #4 JOB POSTINGS - VACATION RELIEF #5 PART-TIME EMPLOYEES #6 LEAD HAND POSTINGS #7 LOCKER CHECKS
#8 CRITERIA FOR IMPROVER (SERVICE TECHNICIAN) CLASSIFICATIONS (1 THROUGH 4)
#9 COMPRESSED WORK WEEK #10 RETIREMENT PLAN #11 JANITORS
#12 NEW POSTINGS AFTER DECEMBER 29, 2004 I N COOKED MEATS AND SHIPPING AND RECEIVING DEPARTMENTS #13 DENTAL CONTRIBUTIONS #14 THE CALM SYSTEM #15 MODIFIED WORK
#16 PRODUCTION EMPLOYEES WISHING TO BUMP PART-TIME EMPLOYEES IN SHIPPING AND RECEIVING
Dated this______day of__________________, 2005 in the City of Calgary, Alberta.
'^'Signed on behaIf of the Company:
Signed on behalf of the Union:
53