BETWEEN
BURNS MEATS — A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS (1985) LIMITED LETHBRIDGE, ALBERTA
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 740P LETHBRIDGE, ALBERTA AFL—010-CLC
APRIL 1st, 1988
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE	PAGE
Recognition .............................. 1
1.1	Purpose................................... 1
2.1	Bargaining Unit .......................... 2
2.2	Contracting Out .......................... 2
2.3	Foremen Working .......................... 3
3.	Management................................ 3
4.1	Grievance Procedure ...................... 4
4.2	Grievance Committee ...................... 5
4.3	Time Limit Extensions..................... 5
4.4	Employee Attending Meetings .............. 5
4.5	Decisions Final and Binding .............. 5
4.6	Unjust Discharge, Suspension, Lay-Off____ 6
4.7	Policy Differences ....................... 6
4.8	Settlement of Differences ................ 6
4.9	Shop Stewards ............................ 6
4.10	Steward's Investigations................. 7
4.11	Stewards Present at Interviews .......... 7
4.12	No Cessation of Work..................... 7
4.13	Disciplinary Record Removal ............. 6
5.	Arbitration .............................. 6
6.	Union Security ........................... 9
7.	Union Dues Check-Off......................10
8.	Hours of Work and Overtime ............. .11
8.1	Overtime — Over 8 or 40 Hours ............11
8.2	Changes to Work Schedule..................11
8.3	Method of Obtaining Overtime..............12
8.4	Continuous Shift Operators................12
8.5	Payment for Overtime Hours................12
8.6	Emergency Call-Ins .......................13
8.7	Overtime Meal and/or Allowance............13
8.8	Sunday Work ..............................13
8.9	Daily Guarantee ..........................14
8.10	Rest Periods and Lunch Breaks............14
8.11	Mechanical Breakdowns....................14
8.12	Pyramiding of Benefits ..................14
9.	V\feekly Pay Guarantee ...................15
10.	seniority ................................T7
10.1	Definition and Probation Period ..........17
10.2
10.3
11.
11.1
11.2
11.3 12. 12.1
12.2
12.3
13.
13.1
13.2
13.3
13.4
13.5
13.6
13.7
14.
14.1
14.2
14.3
14.4
14.5
15.
15.1
15.2
15.3
15.4
15.5
15.6
15.7
15.8
15.9
15.10
15.11
15.12
15.13
Allowable Breaks .............
Accumulation of Seniority While
Absent From Work..............
Transfers ....................
Permanent Transfers ..........
Temporary Transfers ..........
Shift Preference .............
Promotion and Job Posting ___
Vacancy Filling and Promotion
and Transfers ................
Light Duty Jobs Lists.........
Group Leader — Application of Clause .. Leave of Absence Leave for Full Time Positions Leave for Union Business Leaves of Absence General Maternity Leave Jurv Dutv pnd SubDoena Pav Funeral / Bereavement Leave Injury - Shift Guarantee Medical Aid Lay-Off and Rehire
Lay-Off......................
Seniority on Lay-Off and Rehire
Notice to Union .............
Lay-Off Notice to Employees Technical and Commercial Training
Positions...........................
Vacations .	.	.....
Vacation Calculation to April 1st...
Vacation Calculation 1st Vacation___
Vacation Entitlement ...............
Vacation Period.....................
Vacation Period 4th and 5th Week____
Accumulation of 4th and 5th Week____
Vacation Pay — When Paid____________
Paid Holidays During Vacation ......
Vacation Pav........................
Vacation On-Termination ...........
Vacation and Retirement ...........
Vacation Pay and Provincial Legislation Sick While on Vacation ............
18
.19
.19
.19
.20
.20
.20
.20
.22
.22
22
22
.23
.23
.24
.24
.24
.25
25
.25
.25
.26
.26
.26
.27
.27
.27
.27
.27
.28
28
28
28
28
29
29
29
.29
15.14	Work Emergency While	on Vacation	.30
16.	General ........................... .30
16.1	Protective Services ................30
16.2	Laundry ............................30
16.3	Company Stores...........................31
16.4	Safety — Committee .................31
— Boot Allowance..................31
16.5	Bulletin	Boards..........................32
16.6	Welfare	Plans ..........................32
16.7	Tools — Allowance........................32
16.8	Licenses ...........................32
16.9	Clothing ...........................32
16.10	Union Desk and Filing Cabinet...........33
17.	Severance Pay ......................33
18.	Wages ..............................35
18.1	Labor Rates ........................35
18.2	New or Changed Jobs ................35
18.3	Application of Rates ...............36
19.	Methods and Improvements.................36
19.1	Material	Changes....................... .36
19.2	Work Load Increases ................ jg
20.	Duration of Agreement	................:(3fp
21.	Application .......................38
Sch. “A” 1. Application of Rates , .	.39
2.	Job Rates — How Determined .	.40
3.	Qualifying Periods.	.40
4.	Permanent Transfer.	..41
5.	Temporary Transfer.	..41
6.	Transfer at Own Request.	..42
7.	Technological Change —
Rate Protection ..	..42
8.	Off Shift Premiums.	..42
9.	Week-End Premiums.	..42
10.	Group Leader Premium.	..43
11.	Return to Regular Department .	..44
Sch. “B” Paid Holidays ..44
1.	A. Schedule ................44
B.	Holiday Pay ..............45
C.	Work on Paid Holiday...........45
2.	Paid Holiday While on Weekly
Ind. or W.C.B. Benefits .........46
Memorandums .........................
Welfare Plans .......................
Weekly Indemnity Plan ...............
Dental Insurance Plan ...............
Group Life Insurance Plan ...........
Pension Plan ........................
Vision Care Plan ....................
Health Care Plan ....................
Schedule of Grades ..................
Medical Certificates — Return to Work
Red Circle Rates ....................
Light Duty Lists ....................
Clothing ............................
Safety Boot Allowance................
Profit Sharing ......................
.47 .47 .47 .48 .48 .4 8 .49 .49 .50 .54 .55 .56 .5 7 .58 .59
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into as of the 1st day of April, 1988
BETWEEN:
BURNS MEATS - A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS (1985) LIMITED LETHBRIDGE, ALBERTA hereinafter called “the Company” and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 740P
affiliated with the A.F.L. - C.I.O. and the Canadian Labour Congress (C.L.C.) on behalf of its Local Unions hereinafter named, and herein called “the Union”.
In consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained the parties hereto agree each with the other as follows:
RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency.
The Company will not bargain collectively with any other labour organization affecting employees in the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 1 — Purposes
The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to provide an amicable method of settling any grievances or differences which might possibly arise; to promote the mutual interests of the employer and the employees. The Company and the employees jointly recognize the continuing need for maintaining efficient production in the packinghouse industry at all times and the necessity of rendering efficient service to the producers and consumers and realizing their mutual responsibility pledge full cooperation to that end.
ARTICLE 2 — Bargaining Unit
2.1	The bargaining unit is comprised of all the employees on the plant payroll, as distinguished from the office payroll, with the exception of:
(a)	Watchmen.
(b)	Assistant foremen and those above the rank of assistant foremen.
<c) Employees represented by any certified bargaining agent other than the Union.
2.2	It is generally the practice of the Company to have work within the plant performed by employees of the Company. However, because of reasons such as the availability of skilled employees, complexity of the work, the cost of equipment required to do the work in relation to its use, the scope of the work, the duration and frequency of the work, the cost to have the work performed by employees as compared to other alternatives, it may become necessary to have the work within the plant performed by outside contractors.
Where outside contractors perform work within the plant and such work represents a material change in practice creating an adverse effect on present employees of a group affected by such material change in practice, the matter may be processed as a grievance under Article 4 of this Agreement. Should the grievance be referred to an arbitration board as provided under Article 5, the arbitration board will consider the reasons mentioned in the first paragraph of this section in its determination of the use by the Company of such outside contractors and where the arbitration board determines that the use of such outside contractors does create such an adverse effect, the Company will, within a reasonable period, either discontinue the work or have it performed by employees.
The foregoing shall not apply to the cafeteria, country deliveries, construction and installation work.
The Company may introduce work utilizing Company employees on a trial or test basis. If the result of
2
such an experiment indicates that, for reasons set out in the first paragraph of this section, the work should be transferred to an outside contractor this shall not be construed as being a change in general practice.
2.3	The Company agrees that:
1.	Foremen and those above the rank of foremen, and
2.	Unless otherwise mutually agreed, an assistant foreman appointed to a newly created assistant foreman position on or after October 28,1966 shall not assume duties that are normally performed by hourly paid employees except where such duties are limited to occasional work, negligible in amount, but such a foreman or assistant foreman shall in no way be restricted from work which:
(a)	is of confidential clerical nature.
(b)	is for the purpose of instruction, experimentation, demonstration, investigation, replacement of an employee absent from his/her job during the day, sharpening knives, coping with an emergency. An emergency as herein contained shall not be construed as including work resulting from additional volume.
(c)	is to overcome production difficulties caused by the absence of an employee. In such cases the Company will advise the Union as to the absence of the employee and will obtain a suitable replacement within one-half (1/2) day.
ARTICLE 3 — Management
The Union recognizes the sole right of the Company to manage the plant and direct the work of the employees including the right to hire, promote, demote, suspend, discharge for cause, lay-off, assign to jobs and shifts, transfer employees from department to department; increase or decrease the working forces, determine the products to be handled, processed or manufactured; the schedule of production and the methods, processes and means of production and the handling of same. The Company shall not discriminate against present and prospective
3
employees whether or not they are members of the Union. This Article shall not be used for the purpose of avoiding the effect of the other provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 — Grievance Procedure
4.1	Should any difference arise under this Agreement between the Company and the employee members of the Union it shall be settled by the following method, each step to be taken progressively without delay unless the difference has been settled in an earlier step:
FIRST: the employee or the steward of the department or both, shall take the question up with his/her foreman. In respect to any settlement effected by the employee without the steward, the steward may reopen the question by discussing same with the employee and the foreman. Grievances may be submitted in writing if either party considers it necessary. If the question is not settled by the end of the next work day; then
SECOND: the Chief Steward, or his/her designated representative both of whom shall be employees of the Company and members of the bargain/r&unit as defined under Article 2, with or without the steward of the department, shall present the question in writing to the Plant Superintendent, or in his/her absence the Company’s designated representative. If the question is not settled by the end of the next two (2) working days; then
THIRD: within five (5) working days the question shall be presented in writing to the plant management by the Grievance Committee of the Union which may be accompanied by a full time staff member of the Union (not necessarily an employee) a decision to be rendered within five (5) working days of the date of discussion.
The wording of grievances may be changed or amended for the purpose of clarification at any time up to and including the third step of the grievance procedure.
4
FOURTH: If the difference remains unresolved, then within one (1) calendar month of the date of decision under the third step of the grievance procedure, and the grievance remaining outstanding, measures shall be taken under the procedure as outlined in Article 5 hereof.
For the purpose of this section the term “working days” shall not include Saturday, Sunday or any paid holiday referred to in Schedule "B”.
4.2	The Grievance Committee, comprised of regular employees of the Company who have attained seniority, shall be elected by the Union, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of that committee. The number of employees on the Grievance Committee at the plant shall not exceed three (3).
4.3	It is understood and agreed that the time limits set out in Article 4 may be extended as agreed between the parties provided such agreement is in writing and signed by both parties.
4.4	The employee may be present if (s)he so desires in any of the steps outlined in Section 1 hereof. Where the grievor is on a shift different from that in which the grievance meeting is held (s)he will be paid, along with the Grievance Committee, at his/her regular job rate for time spent with plant management at such grievance meeting.
4.5	When a decision is reached under any one of the methods outlined in Section 4.1, immediately preceding, such decision shall be final and binding and shall be retroactive to the date of the original submission in writing unless otherwise directed in such decision. If the grievance affects a rate of pay it shall be retroactive to the date it was first submitted in writing, or if the cause of such grievance arose prior thereto then the adjustment will be made retroactively to the dale the error was made or such other period as may be agreed upon.
5
4.6	Except as provided under the first paragraph of Article 10, section 1 if an employee deems (s)he has been unjustly suspended, unjustly discharged or unjustly laid off from the service of the Company, (s)he shall submit his/her difference in writing through the Grievance Committee of the Union within five (5) working days after date of separation, and the difference will be considered commencing at the second step of Section 1 of this Article. In the event of such employee being reinstated, (s)he shall be paid for this period during which (s)he has not worked as if (s)he had not been suspended, discharged or laid off, subject to such adjustment as the settlement may determine.
4.7	Should any difference arise between the Company and the Union as to the meaning and application of the provisions of the Agreement, the question shall be taken up commencing at the third step of Section 1 hereof.
4.8	Pending settlement of a difference as outlined in Section 1 and 7 hereof, an aggrieved employee shall perform the duties assigned to him/her by the person in charge of the department, provided however, where such duties involve a transfer reasonable consideration shall be given to ability and in the case of an immediate transfer, extreme changes in temperature. Where an employee has a question concerning his/her transfer and the department Steward is not available for consultation, (s)hewill register the question with the foreman. The foreman will arrange to have the department Steward discuss the matter with the employee within one (1) hour of such transfer.
4.9	Shop stewards and assistant shop stewards, all of whom shall be regular employees of the Company who have attained seniority, the number to be decided by negotiation between the Union and the Company, shall be elected by the Union and recognized by the Company. A list of all such stewards stating the department or groups each represents shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised
6
immediately by the Union in writing of any change in this list. The assistant shop steward will act only when the shop steward is absent from the plant.
4.10	Before a steward, or an executive officer, (or a member of the Grievance Committee in case the grievance has reached the third step) leaves his/her job or his/her department (s)he shall first notify the person in charge of that department of the difference (s)he wishes to investigate or process and shall then, within one (1) hour, be granted permission to leave. Should the Steward or executive officer of the Union go into any department (s)he shall first report to the person in charge of that department, provided (s)he is available, giving the difference (s)he wishes to investigate or process.
4.11	If an employee is being interviewed privately by his/her foreman about a matter that could result in his/her discharge or suspension (s)he may, if (s)he desires, request that his/her department steward be present as a witness. If such interview is conducted by the Superintendent, or in his/her absence the Company's designated representative, the employee may request the presence of the Chief Steward, or his/her designated representative, or the Assistant Chief Steward, or his/her department Steward as a witness. If the employee in question is the department steward then (s)he may request the presence of the Chief Steward or the President of the Local Union as the witness.
If an employee is discharged, suspended or issued a written reprimand, the Company shall notify the Union in writing within two (2) working days stating the reason for such discharge, suspension or reprimand.
4.12	No Cessation of Wbrk. There shall be no strikes, or lockouts during the term of this Agreement and thereafter while negotiations are underway for a renewal or extension thereof, and the Union and its members shall not during the aforementioned period authorize, call, encourage, support or take part in any
7
strike, walkout, stoppage, slowing down or other cessation of work in or on the Company's plant or property which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company.
The Union agrees that no strike vote of the members of the Local Union will be taken during the term of this Agreement.
The Union^ agrees that no strike vote of the members will be taken during the course of negotiations with the Company for renewal or extension of the Agreement until an attempt has been made in good faith to settle any differences arising in such negotiations by conciliation or some other form of mediation.
4.13	Employees who have developed a disciplinary record may have that record removed providing they are able to maintain a discipline free performance period of four (4) years from the point of their last disciplinary infraction. During this four (4) year period the employee must have an eighty (80) percent attendance record in each of the years to qualify for amnesty.
ARTICLE 5 — Arbitration
5.1	Any disagreement, grievance or dispute arising under this Agreement which is not settled to the satisfaction of either the Union or the Company under the provisions of Article 4 hereof, shall, upon the written notice of either party, be submitted to an Arbitration Board, provided the grievance involves the interpretation or alleged violation of any provision of this Agreement. The Arbitration Board shall consist of three (3) members, one of whom shall be nominated by the grieving party who will name its nominee to the board no later than one (1) calendar week from the date of written notice of its intent to arbitrate the grievance, and one by the other party who will name its nominee within another calendar week, and a Chairman to be selected by the two nominees no later than two (2) calendar weeks thereafter. In the event of failure of the two nominees to agree upon the selec-
8
tion of a Chairman, such Chairman, who will be someone other than a civil servant, shall be appointed as provided by the Alberta Labour Act.
5.2	The matters and things to be considered and the decision rendered by such Board shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
5.3	It is agreed that neither the Company nor the Union will prevent the other party from referring a difference to arbitration to determine if the difference is arbitrable. A question of arbitrability need not be raised during the grievance procedure. If the Arbitration Board determines the grievance is arbitrable, the same Board shall then consider the grievance itself.
5.4	Decisions shall be determined by a majority of the members of the Board and such decision shall be final and binding on the parties hereto.
5.5	The Union and the Company shall pay the fees and expenses of their respective nominees and the fees and expenses of the Chairman shall be divided equally between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 6 — Union Security
6.1	Any employee who on the date hereof was a member of the Union in good standing or who becomes a member after that date shall maintain such membership as a condition of employment.
6.2	A new employee shall become a member of the Union within thirty (30) calendar days following his/her date of hire. The Company agrees to obtain applications for membership in the Union at time of hire from such employees and membership in the Union will be granted within thirty (30) calendar days.
6.3	Employee Union members shall be considered to have maintained membership in the Union in good standing so long as they pay the regular Union dues, initiation fees and special assessments uniformly required of all members of the Local Union.
6.4	No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against his/her application for membership or for
9
reinstatement as a member of the Union, nor shall any discrimination of any kind whatever be practiced or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union.
ARTICLE 7 — Check-Off
7.1	The Company agrees to deduct the monthly Union dues from each employee's pay on his/her first pay day in each calendar month during the term of this Agreement and in the case of a newly hired employee, on the first pay day in the same month the employee was hired.
(a)	Twice the regular monthly Union dues shall be deducted in any one check-off where the employee was absent or had insufficient pay in the check-off immediately preceding.
(b)	The Union may convert the monthly Union dues referred to in this section to weekly Union dues by:
(i)	advising the Local Plant Management at least sixty (60) days prior to the commencement of the weekly check-off, which must commence on the first day of any week, and,
(ii)	in writing confirming the amount of the weekly dues.
7.2	Upon receipt of written authorization signed by the employee, the Company will deduct the initiation fee from the pay of employees joining the Union and such deduction will be made from the employee's pay in the payroll week next following the week in which such authorization form is received by the Company.
7.3	The Company will deduct a special assessment uniformly required of all members of the Union and such deduction shall be made from the employee’s pay commencing on his/her first pay day next following the date on which notice of such authorization is received from the Union.
7.4	The Union shall advise the Company in writing of the amount of the initiation fee, dues and assessments authorized by the employees in keeping with the Constitution and By-Laws of the Union.
10
7.5	The Company will transmit the total amount so deducted from all such employees, complete with an alphabetical listing of those employees who had Union dues deducted, to the Financial Secretary of the Union on or before the fifth (5) day of the following calendar month. In addition, the weekly and monthly statements will be included.
ARTICLE 8 — Hours of Work and Overtime
8.1	For the purpose of calculating if overtime is payable, the Company shall set out in Schedule “C" the hours of work, which may vary from department to department and between employees within a department. The hours set out in Schedule “C" shall total not more than eight (8) in any day or forty (40) for any payroll week, unless otherwise mutually agreed.
The Company and the Local Union may from time to time enter into an agreement to modify the hours of work outlined in this Article so long as those employees affected agree to the modified hours of work.
At the commencement of each year, but in any event no later than Januaiy 15th, the Company will provide the Union with copies of all current Schedule “C’s”. Further, any Schedule “C” revised as provided under Section 2, immediately following, will also be provided to the Union.
8.2	Schedule “C” may be changed from time to time as required to meet the needs of the business, but such changes shall not be made effective until seven (7) days notice has been given in the case of a gang, or twenty-four (24) hours notice in the case of individual employees. When an individual employee is required, before the expiry of the said twentyfour (24) hours notice, to work before or after his/her scheduled hours (s)he shall receive overtime for such work. Similarly in the case of a gang when an employee is required, before the expiry of the said seven (7) days notice, to work before or after his/her scheduled hours (s)he shall receive overtime for such work. Pro-
11
vided however, when the only change is that the starting time is set back by the Company to a later hour, such change shall not be regarded as a change in the scheduled hours under the provisions of this section 2 but overtime shall commence after the normal end of the shift. Changes contemplated in a gang schedule will be discussed with the Union before thev are made and, where feasible contemplated changes in the schedule for any individual will also be discussed.
8.3	The Company and the Union recognize that it may be necssary for employees to work in excess of their regular number of hours due to fluctuating livestock receipts and variable volume but the Company will limit the hours of work beyond such regular number of hours to what is reasonable.
Should overtime be required, the Company shall, whenever practicable, notify the steward of the department where the overtime is required. Overtime will rotate on the basis of the senior aualified employee, or employees, within the department being provided the first opportunity to work the overtime through to the junior qualified employee, or employees, within the department. When the rotation is complete, another rotation will commence and continue on such basis. If a qualified employee is inadvertently missed in the rotation, (s)he shall be given the first opportunity to work the next time overtime work is required. When overtime is required on non scheduled days or shifts, the Company will discuss the call ins, where practicable, with the department steward.
8.4	Continuous shift operators, such as firemen and engineers, may be required to work forty-four (44) hours in a payroll week, but shall receive overtime rates for the hours worked in excess of forty (40), but overtime shall not apply where work shifts of varying lengths do not average more than forty (40) hours.
8.5	For all hours worked in excess of the number of hours set out in Schedule "C” an hourly paid
12
employee, other than a continuous shift operator, shall be paid overtime at one and one-half (1 Vi) times his/her regular hourly rate or temporary rate whichever is being paid when overtime commences, For all hours worked in excess of thirteen (13) continuous hours twice such rate shall replace one and one-half (1 'k). After thirteen (13) hours of continuous work a second meal will be furnished by the Company, to be eaten on Company time, not to exceed twenty (20) minutes.
8.6	An employee, who has left the Company's premises, specially called outside his/her scheduled hours for emergency work shall be through when the emergency is over. For such emergency work, being that outside of scheduled hours, (s)he shall be paid four (4) hours at his/her job rate or for the hours actually worked at the overtime rate, whichever is the greater.
8.7	An employee who works more than one and one-half (1V4) hours overtime after the end of his/her regular shift will be furnished a meal by the Company, to be eaten on Company time, not to exceed twenty (20) minutes.
Employees other than those who eat their meal on the job, if required to work in excess of five (5) hours on non-scheduled days, (not to include Paid Holidays falling on scheduled workdays), will be provided with a meal, but will not be entitled to nav for the meal period.
When a meal is not furnished by the Company, a meal allowance of $5.00 will be paid in lieu.
8.8	Sunday Work. Double the regular hourly rate shall be paid to hourly-paid employees for work performed on Sunday except where the work regularly falls on Sunday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid double the regular hourly rate if (s)he works on his/her day off in lieu of Sunday. In the case of employees starting a night shift prior to midnight Sunday, the hours worked before midnight will not be considered as Sunday work as these hours are part of their Monday shift.
13
Where an employee's scheduled days off do not include an actual Sunday, then the second day off shall be deemed to be his/her Sunday.
8.9	Employees, when called for work, shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay for that day at the regular hourly rate. Employees who leave of their own accord when work is available will not receive this guaranteed minimum four (4) hours pay. Where less than four (4) hours work are regularly scheduled, such scheduled hours shall constitute the guarantee.
8.10	‘An employee shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours after the scheduled starting time without a lunch period, or more than two hours and one half (2Va) hours after the scheduled starting time without a fifteen (15) minute rest period, nor more than two and one half (2'h) hours after a lunch period without such rest period. An employee who works more than five (5) hours after the lunch period will be granted a further fifteen (15) minute rest period except where the Company furnishes a meal as provided under Section 7 of this Article.
(i)	the Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day,
(ii)	the Union agrees that rest periods must not be abused,
(iii)	when a transfer occurs during working hours that necessitates a change of work clothing, employees will not be expected to utilize their fifteen (15) minute rest period in the forenoon or afternoon.
These provisions shall not be applicable in cases of emergency nor to continuous shift operators such as Firemen or Engineers.
8.11	During a mechanical breakdown time shall continue to accumulate to an employee transferred temporarily to other work or instructed by his/her foreman to wait on the premises of the Company.
8.12	The payment of overtime, holiday or Sunday rates in this Article 8 shall not be construed to require
14
duplication of overtime, holiday or Sunday pay involv-ina the same hours of work. More particularly, it is understood that no unforeseen or unexpected costs, above and beyond the actual premium rate provided for herein because of conflicting provisions elsewhere in the Collective Agreement will be incurred to the Company.
ARTICLE 9—37 Hours Pay Guarantee
9.1	Based upon the present prevailing hours of work, as outlined in Article 8 hereof, if a regular employee's weekly earnings, excluding overtime, night premium, and knife sharpening bonus, do not amount to the equivalent of thirty-seven (37) hours pay at his/her job rate, hereinafter called the “guaranteed payment”, the Company shall make up the difference subject to the following provisions:
(a)	The provisions of this Article 9 shall not apply to:
(i)	employees hired on a casual basis for such work as cured hide take-up, snow shovellers, wreckers, and
(ii)	employees discharged for cause, suspended, or voluntarily leaving the service of the Company.
(b)	Overtime payments made to an employee under Section 2 of Article 8 of this Collective Agreement shall not be deemed to be “overtime” for the purposes of Article 9 subsection 1.
(c)	The guaranteed payment shall be reduced one quarter (Vi) hour for each quarter hour or fraction thereof an employee is absent from work during scheduled working hours.
(d)	For purposes of the 37 hours pay guarantee, if an employee does not perform the work assigned to him/her the guaranteed payment for the payroll week in which such absence occurs shall be reduced by the number of hours (s)he missed.
(e)	An employee who is employed after the first of the plant week shall be guaranteed, for such week, that fraction of the guaranteed payment which the normal hours remaining of the plant week is of forty (40) hours.
15
(f)	Employees on lay-off notice shall be entitled to their guaranteed payment for the week in which notice is given, and should the notice extend into a subsequent week then the guaranteed payment for such week shall be that fraction of thirty-seven (37) hours pay which the normal hours for those days of the notice occurring in such week is of forty (40).
(g)	Where the observance of a holiday other than any of the stipulated Paid Holidays, leaves less than thirty-seven (37) scheduled hours in the payroll week, the guaranteed payment shall be the number of scheduled hours available for work.
(h)	If only part of the employees in any gang receiving guarantee pay can be used on other work, they shall be entitled to any guarantee pay due their gang, plus whatever they earn on the other work, provided they have been present each work day and worked all hours as ordered.
9.2	In order to meet the demands of the business in filling rush orders, the Company may hire part-time workers excluded from the provisions of this Article for work of twenty-four (24) hours or less in a payroll week provided the Union is notified when such parttime workers are hired. In the event there is a person with seniority on lay-off, (s)he will be given the first opportunity for such part-time work provided (s)he has the necessary qualifications to perform such work. Part-time workers will be the first to be laid off in the event of a general lay-off occurring in the plant.
9.3	Subject to other provisions of this Article 9, in a payroll week containing a recognized paid holiday or holidays the “guaranteed payment” shall be the employee’s job rate multiplied by hours as follows:
Hours set out in Schedule “C” less three (3) hours for days apart from recognized Paid Holidays plus eight (8) hours for each such holiday in that week.
16
ARTICLE 10 — Seniority
10.1	Seniority is defined as the length of an employee's service with the Company determined by inclusion on the plant payroll, referred to herein as “plant work”, provided however, than an employee will be on probation and not subject to the seniority provisions contained herein, until (s)he has completed sixty-five (65) scheduled days of employment, on plant work, within a consecutive nine (9) month period and has received pay for each such day at least equal to the minimum provided under Article 8, section 9 hereof. Until a probationary employee has acquired seniority, (s)he may be separated from the Company’s employ at any time without reference to the grievance procedure and the Company shall be under no obligation to rehire. Upon completion of such probationary period the employee’s name will be placed on the seniority list. An employee's service shall be calculated as the elapsed time from the date (s)he was.first employed on plant work, unless his/her seniority was broken, in which event the calculation shall be from the date (s)he returned to plant work following the last break in seniority, subject to the following:
(a)	continuous service with the Company in any capacity prior to September 2,1948, will be included in establishina an emDlovee’s seniority date.
(b)	Service in the capacity of foreman or assistant foreman prior to November 1,1966, will be included in establishing an employee’s seniority date.
(c)	an employee returning to plant work from another part of the Company’s service will be credited with his/her previous service in plant work, notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Article relating to seniority.
(d)	On April 1st each year, the Company will issue a seniority list showing those persons who have attained seniority. The list shall be posted in conspicuous places throughout the plant, and a copy delivered to the Chief Steward, stewards and three (3)
17
local officers at the plant, with a supplementary correction list each three (3) months thereafter. When an employee completes the probationary period and attains seniority, as defined under section 1 of this Article, the Union will be advised by the end of the payroll week next following.
10.2	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited and there is no obligation to rehire when he:
(a)	voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or is discharged for cause;
or
(b)	fails to return to work when called, or cannot be located after a reasonable effort on the part of the Company. A registered letter directed to his/her last known address with a copy to the Union, shall constitute reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The employee shall within five (5) working days (if the address is in the city in which the plant is located), or seven (7) days (if the address is outside the citv in which the plant is located) of the date of such notice notify the Company with respect thereto, and in such event the employee shall return to work within a reasonable time to be determined by the Company and the Union.
(This clause shall not apply to work of a temporary nature of less than ten [IO] days duration).
In cases where it is necessary to secure workers in less time than the required notice the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recall the next senior employee, and so on down the list, until the vacancies are filled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time (s)he shall be given the work for which the next senior employee was recalled; or
(c)	has been on lay-off for a period longer than the time allowed in the following schedule:
18
Length of Allowable Length of Seniority Time Off Company at Date of Lay-Off	Payroll
Less than two years Equivalent to length of service with a minumum of 6 months
Over two years	2 years
10.3	If an employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness (s)he shall accumulate seniority while off work, up to the time limits set out under Article 10, section 2, sub-section (c), except that an employee with two or more years service shall accumulate seniority for a period equivalent to his/her length of service up to a maximum of four years, and shall be returned to the job previously held or to a job carrying a rate equal to that previously held subject to seniority providing (s)he can perform the required work satisfactorily. If the employee would not otherwise have retained his/her previous job and is not placed on a job carrying an equal rate of pay, (s)he shall, subject to seniority be placed on a job (s)he can satisfactorily perform. Application for reinstatement after the expiry of the allowable period shall be considered on its merits.
10.4	It will be the responsibility of each employee to keep the Company and the Union advised at all times of his/her current address and telephone number, either temporary or permanent.
ARTICLE 11—Transfers
11.1	Permanent Transfer. When an employee has been transferred out of a department, (s)he may within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of four (4) months from date of transfer, signify in writing to the Superintendent that (s)he wishes to return to the original department. When a vacancy occurs in the original department, the senior employee who has signified his/her wish will be returned.
19
11.2	Temporary Transfer. When a temporary transfer is made from one department to another or to an off shift from within the same department, the Company will transfer the employee with the least seniority, always having regard to the requirements of the business and the ability of the employee to do the required work satisfactorily.
Where an employee is permanently transferred to another department and is consistently thereafter returned temporarily to perform the job in his/her previous department because of his/her qualifications to perform the work, (s)he may express his/her dissatisfaction with such transfers and the Company will, subject to seniority, make a reasonable effort to obtain a replacement who can satisfactorily perform the work or train another employee who possesses suitable qualifications and can qualify within a reasonable period for such temporary transfer.
11.3	Written applications submitted to the Superintendent, on the appropriate form, a copy of which shall go to the Union, will be accepted from employees with six (6) months seniority, who are regularly employed on the night shift, indicating their desire to transfer to work on the day shift, or from employees regularly employed on the day shift, indicating their desire to transfer to work on the night shift, so that employees applying can be considered along with other senior employees who have suitable qualifications. When a suitable opening arises, consideration of transfer will be based on seniority for applications that have been on file for one (1) month or more, always having regard to the ability of the employee to perform the available work and the requirements of the Company to conduct its operations in an efficient and orderly manner.
ARTICLE 12— Promotion and Job Posting
12.1	Promotion within the bargaining unit shall be based on ability, merit and seniority. Ability and merit being sufficient, seniority shall prevail. Employees accepting promotion will be allowed a reasonable time in which to qualify.
20
(a)	Vacancies within the Bargaining Unit shall be filled within the Department by step by step promotion.
(b)	When a vacancy within the Bargaining Unit cannot be satisfactorily filled from within the department, the Company will post the vacancy of those jobs having a value of four (4) grades or more unless otherwise agreed. In addition, the Company agrees to post preferable vacancies, a definition and list of jobs set out in Section 4. Those applying within six (6) working days from the date of posting along with those with applications on file as provided under Section 3 of this memorandum will receive consideration on the basis of seniority, provided the employees possess suitable qualifications for the jobs and can qualify within a reasonable period. Employees selected to fill such jobs temporarily shall receive equal consideration with such applicants. The accepted applicant shall be assigned to the vacancy on a trial basis until (s)he has demonstrated that (s)he can qualify.
(c)	An employee with plant seniority who wishes to transfer to another department may submit a written application to the Plant Superintendent. When a vacancy occurs in that department which cannot be filled in accordance with Section 1 of this memorandum, consideration on the basis of seniority will be given to employees with applications on file provided the employees applying possess the necessary qualification for the vacancy and can qualify within a reasonable period of time, and further provided they have not been transferred under the provisions of this section within the previous twelve (12) month period. Such transfers will be effected as quickly as a suitable replacement can be obtained.
Employees who do not accept a transfer when an opening has occurred in the department they have indicated on their application, shall not be eligible to apply for another transfer until twelve (12) months has elapsed.
21
(d)	Preferred vacancies referred to in Section 2: STOCKYARDS Yardmen
JANITORS, LAUNDRY, ETC.
Laundry Laundry Helper
Any employee who has been granted a promotion under Article 12.1 will be preclused from making application for another position posted under this provision for a period of 12 months from the date (s)he was awarded the position.
12.2	Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article 12 and of Article 11, two lists of jobs shall be created, through consultation between management and the local Union and will be designated as jobs which are not to be filled in accordance with the provisions of Articles 11 and 12. If such persons are available such jobs will be filled as follows:
(a)	The first list. Jobs will be filled by employees who can perform them satisfactorily and who are unable to perform their regular duties.
(b)	The second list. Jobs will be filled by employees who can perform them satisfactorily and who are temporarily unable to perform their regular duties due to a temporary disability. An employee accommodated under this provision will return to his/her regular job when physically able.
The lists of such jobs may be altered from time to time by agreement between the Company and the Union.
12.3	The provisions of Article 12, section 1, shall not apply in the appointment of group leaders as defined under Schedule “A” 10.
ARTICLE 13 — Leave of Absence
13.1	Leave of absence mav be granted to an employee who provides written request:
(a) At least one (1) week in advance of the date leave is to commence when leave is requested as a result of the employee's appointment or election to a full-time Union position.
22
(b) At least two (2) weeks in advance of the date leave is to commence when leave is requested as a result of the employee's election to a full-time position to a School Board, Civic Council, Federal Parliament, Provincial Legislature, the Alberta Federation of Labour, or the Canadian Labour Congress, with the proviso that the total number of employees applying for leave under this Section 13.1 shall not exceed two (2) at any one time.
Employees requesting leave shall advise the Company of the length of such leave at the time of application for leave. In the event that additional leave is required, it shall be again given in writing indicating the commencement and termination of such leave.
In the event that the employee wishes to return to the employment of the Company, that employee shall notify the Company in writing of that intent at least one (1) month prior to the date (s)he is to return. Employees on leave under this Section shall not accumulate seniority and upon returning to the Company, their seniority date shall be adjusted accordingly.
13.2	Employees chosen by the Union to attend to Union business outside the plant shall be granted leave of absence not exceeding sixty (60) days providing that the absence of each such employee shall not unreasonably affect the operation of his/her department. Such leave will be extended up to a maximum of a further thirty (30) days upon reapplication by the employee. Seniority shall continue to accumulate during such period of leave of absence.
Unless otherwise agreed, the maximum number of employees permitted on leave of absence at any one time will be three (3) employees.
13.3	Leave of absence may be granted to an employee by the Company for good and sufficient reason upon application by the employee provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the
23
requirements of the business. If leave of absence is for a period of one (1) week or more, written application shall be made by the employee to the Company, and if the leave is granted by the Company, it shall be confirmed in writing and a copy thereof sent to the secretary of the Union. Seniority shall accumulate through periods of such leave of absence. The Union will be advised of the final disposition of all written applications for leave of absence.
13.4	An employee with six (6) months seniority who applies for leave of absence before the sixty month of pregnancy shall be granted leave up to six (6) months commencing at least three (3) months prior to confinement and extending at least six (6) weeks after confinement. Immediately prior to the expiration of such leave of absence, the employee may signify in writing, supported by a doctor's certificate of physical fitness, that she wishes to return to work, and in such case she will be reinstated within one (1) month provided she has the necessary seniority and is able to perform the required work satisfactorily. Seniority shall accumulate through periods of such leave of absence.
13.5	Jury Duly & Subpoena Pay. The Company shall continue to pay an employee for scheduled hours at his/her regular hourly rate for time (s)he is away when summoned to appear or required to serve jury duty or when (s)he has been served with a subpoena issued by the Crown to appear in a Court of Law. Within one (1) month of the employee’s return to work (s)he will reimburse the Company the full amount of any court fees received from the Government. It is understood that the employee will report to work during regular hours that (s)he is not required to attend court and may be required to produce a certificate of service from the court office if requested by the Company.
13.6	Funeral
(a) Where an employee is absent to attend the funeral of a sister, brother, husband, wife, son,
24
daughter, grandfather, grandmother, grandchild, mother or mother-in-law, lather or father-in-law (s)he shall receive pay at his/her regular hourly rate for scheduled hours lost on three (3) scheduled days ending with the second day after the funeral.
(b) When an employee is unable to attend the funeral of an immediate relative due to geographical limitations, (s)he shall receive 8 hours pay at his/her regular rate for the day of the funeral. Such payment wiil be made only in respect to the absence from work on one of his/her regularly scheduled work days.
For the purpose of 13.6 (b) an immediate relative will mean wife, husband, daughter, son, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law.
13.7 Medical Aid. An employee, injured while perform-ina his/her work, who leaves for medical aid arranged through the plant nurse or a Company official shall be paid the difference between Workers Compensation benefits and pay for his/her scheduled hours lost:
(a)	on the day of the accident; and/or
(b)	up to a maximum of three (3) subsequent absences occurring within six (6) calendar weeks of such accident.
The foregoing provisions shall also apply to an employee injured while performing overtime work and in such case (s)he shall be paid for the balance of those overtime hours (s)he would have worked had (s)he not been injured.
ARTICLE 14 — Lay-off and Rehire
14.1	An employee with seniority may not be laid off unless it is found that there is no job available for which such employee is qualified. The Superintendent shall decide as to the availability of a job and the qualifications of an employee, subject to the right of appeal by the Union under the provisions of the Grievance Procedure.
14.2	In the event of reduction of staff and rehiring of employees seniority shall apply, provided the employee with the greater amount of seniority can
25
satisfactorily perform the job (s)he is assigned to, or can learn the job within a reasonable time. However, in the rehiring of employees if the job is one requiring immediate qualifications then the Company may recall the senior employee possessing the necessary qualifications.
14.3	The Company shall advise the Union when a layoff is about to occur and shall on the day of issuance of lay-off notice give the Union a list indicating the name and department of all employees affected. Similarly the Company shall on the day of rehire give the Union a list of all those employees to be rehired. Likewise the Union will also be advised of all deletions or additions to the bargaining unit payroll, in writing, on a monthly basis.
14.4	In the case of lay-off employees shall be given one (1) working day’s notice for every completed six (6) months seniority, with a maximum notice of five (5) working days and with a minimum notice of two (2) working days. If the Company determines that additional work is available at the time any lay-off notice is to become effective, the lay-off notice shall be extended to senior employees then on lay-off notice provided they have the necessary qualifications to perform the required work satisfactorily. If the extention of the lay-off notice exceeds seven (7) working days, it will be cancelled.
In the case of recall of an employee for work of less than ten (10) days duration, the requirements in respect of notice of lay-off shall not apply provided the employee and the Union are given notice at the time of recall that such work is of a temporary nature. Employee shall be laid off from such work in order of seniority.
14.5	Employees whom the Company wishes to train for supervisory, technical or commercial positions outside of the bargaining unit may be retained in employment without being subject to the lay-off provision of the Agreement for a period of two (2) years. One (1) month’s notice will be given to the
26
Union before a selected employee becomes a trainee. The number of such employees at any one time shall not exceed 1 % of the number of employees in the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 15 —Vacations
15.1	Vacation for an employee hired after January 1st, 1969, shall be calculated to and in recognition of service ending with a cut-off date of April 1st each year, and such employee shall become entitled to his/her first vacation not exceeding one (1) week on April 1st in the calendar year next following the date (s)he was hired. On each April 1st thereafter (s)he shall become entitled to a regular annual vacation.
15.2	Vacation for those hired prior to January 1st, 1969, shall be calculated to and in recognition of service to the seniority anniversary date occurring in the calendar year of vacation which shall be referred to as the cut-off date, but this is not intended to limit regular annual vacations to the period after the seniority anniversary date.
15.3	The duration of the vacation shall be based on the length of seniority service on December 31 st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be granted, as follows:
Length of
Length of Seniority	Vacation
1 year and less than 5 years	2 weeks
5 years and less than 10 years	3. weeks
10 years and less than 20 years	4 weeks
20 years and less than 25 years	5 weeks
25 years and over	6 weeks
15.4	Each employee shall take his/her vacation during the calendar year in which (s)he becomes entitled to it except as provided in section 15.6 of this Article. Vacations may be given at any time during the year subject to the demands of the business. The Company shall make every reasonable effort to meet the wishes of the employees in allocating vacation periods, preference being given to those with the greatest seniority.
27
15.5	Where an employee is entitled to four (4) or more weeks vacation, those weeks of vacation in excess of three (3) shall be taken at a time other than during the months of June to September inclusive.
15.6	An employee eligible for four (4) or more weeks of vacation may, by prior arrangement with his/her foreman, accumulate those weeks of vacation in excess of three (3) from year to year to be taken at a later time convenient to the Company, taking into account the wishes of the employee. Such accumulated vacations may be taken only as full weeks or multiples thereof.
15.7	Vacation pay shall be granted to an employee at the time (s)he leaves on his/her vacation.
15.8	If one of the Paid Holidays stipulated in Schedule “B” hereof falls within the vacation period assigned to or chosen by an employee, the Company will, at the discretion of such employee;
(a)	Pay eight (8) hours pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate for such Paid Holiday at the time the employee leaves on his/her vacation. This shall be in addition to vacation pay provided in Section 15.9 of this article, or
(b)	If advised by the employee at least two (2) calendar weeks prior to his/her vacation period, grant the employee an alternate day off, with eight (8) hours pay at his/her regular hourly rate, in place of the Paid Holiday to be taken at a time mutually agreeable between the Company and the employee.
In the event the employee elects option (b) but does work on the day agreed upon as his/her alternate day off, it shall be considered as work performed on a Paid Holiday and the employee shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Article 8, Section 9.
15.9	Vacation pay for each week of vacation for hourly rated employees shall be the basic weekly hours at the regular hourly rate pro-rated on the number of weeks of earnings for which vacation pay has not been granted in the twelve (12) months (for
28
first vacation the full period of service) immediately preceding the cut-off date. Leave of absence not exceeding four (4) weeks shall be regarded as weeks of earnings. In the case of illness certified by a practicing physician or surgeon an employee, upon his/her return to the service of the Company, shall receive vacation credit due to illness up to four (4) weeks annually or such longer period as an employee may be entitled to receive Weekly Indemnity under the Sickness and Accident Plan. An employee upon his/her return to the service of the Company after a compensable accident shall be granted up to one year's vacation credits as if earnings had been received.
15.10	Except where otherwise provided by legislation an employee who is discharged for cause forfeits his/her vacation privileges accumulated since his/her last cut-off date, but in the case of an employee who leaves the service of the Company for reasons other than being discharged for cause and (s)he has had more than four (4) months service, (s)he shall receive vacation pay up to the date of leaving calculated back to the last cut-off date for which (s)he has already received vacation pay. (For an employee who leaves before his first cut-off date the calculation shall be made back to the date (s)he was employed.) The employee may request the Company in writing to hold his/her vacation pay for a period of up to three (3) months but in no case shall such period extend beyond December 15th in the year of separation.
15.11	When an employee leaves the service at the normal retirement age before the cut-off date in that year, the period between retirement and the cut-off date shall be regarded as weeks of earnings for purposes of section 15.9 of this Article.
15.12	Where vacation with pay is greater under provincial legislation, it shall replace the foregoing.
15.13	When an employee is injured in a nonoccupational accident or becomes sick while on vacation (s)he can become eligible for the weekly
29
indemnity benefit as set out in the Sickness and Accident Plan provided:
(a)	(S)he deposits with the Company the vacation pay for the unexpired portion of his/her vacation.
(b)	(S)he furnishes a certificate of medical attendance satisfactory to the Canada Life Assurance Company.
(c)	(S)he takes the remainder of his/her vacation at a time granted later in the same calendar year.
In case of sickness, no payment (weekly indemnity or vacation pay) will be made during the waiting period prescribed in the Sickness and Accident Plan.
15.14	Where an employee returns to work due to an emergency while (s)he is on vacation (s)he will be entitled to the provisions of Article 8, Section 6 for each calendar day (s)he reports to work, or alternatively (s)he may arrange with his/her foreman to take an alternate day off for each such calendar day, during the same calendar year, at a time mutually agreeable to both the Company and the employee.
ARTICLE 16 — General
16.1	Protective Services. In the event of any strike, walkout or stoppage of work, the Union shall not do or permit to be done anything by any of its members to prevent powerhouse staff such as firemen, engineers, and an electrician from continuing all or any part of their regular duties in the service of the Company. Furthermore, the Union shall cooperate and assist the Company in taking reasonable precautions to protect perishable products, but such assistance shall only extend through such period as the Company does not attempt to restore regular production.
16.2	Laundry. The free laundry service for employees' work clothes shall be continued and the Company will make necessary repairs to such work clothes where they are of the overall apparel type available through the Company’s stores department.
30
16.3	Company Stores. Working apparel and equipment purchased by employees at the Company's stores shall be sold at cost. Deductions for apparel or equipment purchased by a new employee shall be made out of the first two wage payments due such employee.
16.4	Safety. In order to provide safe and hygienic working conditions for all employees, the Company agrees that the minimum acceptable standard for the safety and health of its employees will be as provided in the Alberta health and safety legislation and accident prevention regulations.
The provisions for the safety committee shall be maintained as outlined in the Company safety policy. The Company shall provide safety equipment free of charge to employees whose work makes it desirable in the interest of safety to use such equipment. The employees shall use and assume responsibility for the reasonable care of all safety equipment supplied to them. In the event that such safety equipment is lost or is not returned on demand, the Company shall be entitled to deduct the cost of same from the employee's wages. It is understood that the said safety equipment shall not be deemed to include such personal necessities as overalls, or any other article which become the personal property of the employee.
The Company agrees to pay an allowance of thirty (30) dollars for leather work boots to all employees who:
(a)	have six (6) months of seniority,
(b)	purchase leather safety boots through the Company for use on the job, and
(c)	are not regularly being supplied with rubber work boots by the Company.
For a subsequent purchase, employees will again become eligible for this allowance one year from the date of their previous purchase.
Employees with less than six (6) months seniority who purchase leather safety boots through the Company for use on the job, will receive this
31
allowance upon the attainment of six (6) months seniority.
Effective April 1, 1989 the thirty (30) dollar allowance shall be increased to forty (40) dollars.
16.5	Bulletin Boards. The Company shall designate bulletin boards for the use of the Union at conspicuous places throughout the plant. All bulletins shall be submitted to the management for approval before posting, save and except routine notices calling Union meetings posted by officers of the Union who are employees of the Company.
16.6	Welfare Plans. The Pension and Life Insurance Plan, the Sickess and Accident Plan, the Dental Plan, the Vision Care Plan, the Hearing Aid Plan, the Long Term Disability Plan, and the Major Medical Plan will be amended as mutually agreed and remain in effect for the term of this Agreement.
16.7	Tools, Mechanical. Tradesman of the Mechanical Department, with seniority, shall upon presentation of required tools broken on the job and worn out required tools, receive replacement cost of fifty-two (52) dollars per contract year per affected employee. Any unused portion of this allowance remaining at the end of a contract year, but not exceeding fifty-two (52) dollars will be carried over only into the following contract year.
16.8	Licenses. The Company shall reimburse the employees for the renewal of necesary licences required in the performance of their duties.
16.9	Clothing. Clothing specified under the present plan will be issued without charge to employees who have attained seniority and the Company will establish regulations in respect thereto. New employees will be charged a flat sixty (60) dollars for the purpose of purchasing the first two sets of clothing. Such clothing will include a pair of rubber boots.
Employees with more than six (6) months seniority, who purchase a quilted vest or liner through the Company for use on the job shall receive an
32
allowance of up to sixteen (16) dollars towards such purchase. Employees with the less than six (6) months seniority who purchase such clothing shall be reimbursed up to sixteen (16) dollars towards such purchase on attainment of six (6) months of seniority. For a subsequent purchase employees will again become eligible for this allowance three (3) years from the date of their previous purchase under this provision. Laundering of such clothing shall be the responsibility of the employee.
16.10	The Company will provide a filing cabinet and a wall/desk or other work surface for the use of Local Union Officials.
ARTICLE 17— Severance Pay
17.1	If the Company deems it necessary to close the plant or a substantial portion of the plant resulting in the permanent termination of service of employees therein, or where an employee is eligible under Article 19, notice at least equal to, but not in addition to, that provided in Article 14, section 4 hereof with minimum notice of one (1) month, shall be given to employees then on the payroll. The guaranteed payment as set out in Article 9 hereof shall apply during the period of such notice. A list of employees affected by the closure will be given to the Union concurrent with the issuance of notice.
17.2	Such employees whose service is permanently terminated because of such closure shall receive severance pay in accordance with the table set out in this Article, but no such payment will be made to:
(a)	except as provided under Article 19, an employee with less than one (1) year’s seniority.
(b)	an employee granted retirement on pension.
(c)	an employee discharged for cause within the period of notice.
(d)	an employee who applies for a vacancy in another plant of the Company and is hired by that plant.
33
(e)	an employee who has been on lay-off under Article 14, section 4, for a period of thirty (30) calendar days or more prior to the date of notification of closure.
17.3	Severance pay shall not apply:
(a)	where close down results from Queen's enemies, insurrection, government action, atomic fallout, Acts of God or any other cause beyond the Company’s control; or
(b)	where close down follows, or is caused through any strike, walkout, stoppage, slowing down or other cessation of work.
17.4	When an employee receives severance pay, all his/her rights and privileges including seniority cease excepting his/her option rights under the Pension and Life Insurance Plan and the Sickess and Accident Plan in respect to termination of service.
17.5	Except as provided under Article 19, an employee with more than two (2) years seniority who receives notice that his/her service is to be terminated because of such closure may within the period of notice apply in writing for a vacancy in another plant of the Company and the Company will hold his/her severance pay in abeyance for a period of up to one (1) year.
Such applications will be considered on the basis of adaptability of the applicant for the available work and in order of seniority in the plant where closure occurs. If an applicant is employed by the Company in any of its plants (s)he will not receive severance pay, but (s)he will be:
(a)	granted the same seniority date (s)he held in the plant where closure occurs for purposes of the Pension and Welfare Plans and for length of vacation as provided in the plant in which (s)he is engaged, but not for selection of the annual vacation period.
(b)	credited with two (2) years seniority for other purposes.
17.6	The scale of severance pay shall be as follows:
34
Employees whose combined age and years of service, as set out above, total 65 will be entitled to a supplement of $2,500 plus an additional $125 for each year the combined total exceeds 65.
ARTICLE 18 — Wages
18.1	Labour rates and Schedule of Grades.
(a)	Labor Rates. On April 1st, 1988, the labour rate shall be $12.51.
(b)	Schedule of Grades. The Schedule of Grades in effect on June 1st, 1988 shall be as follows:
Cents Per Hour Above the Labour Grade
0	$ .00	14	$1.12
1	.08	15	1.20
2
3	.24	17	1.36
4	.32	18	1.44
5	.40	19	1.52
6	.48	20	1.60
7	.56	21	1.68
8	.64	22	1.76
9	.72	23	1.84
10	.80	24	1.92
11	.88	25	2.00
12	.96	26	2.08
13	1.04	27	2.16
28	$2.24
29	2.32
31	2.48
32	2.56
33	2.64
34	2.72
35	2.80
36	2.88
37	2.96
38	3.04
39	3.12
40	3.20
41	3.28
18.2	Grade for New or Changed Job. The Company will establish the grade for a new or changed job by comparing the job with similar jobs already contained in the Schedule of Grades. If there is no comparable job included in the Burns Schedule of Grades, the Company will in the establishment of the grade consider rates paid for the same or similar jobs in other meat processing plants.
The Plant Superintendent will send written advice of the established grade to the Chief Steward of the Local Union.
Within fifteen (15) calendar days of notification described in the preceding paragraph, and upon objection by the Local Union to the newly established grade, the Superintendent will discuss the matter
35
with the Local Union President and/or Chief Steward. If the matter is not settled within fifteen (15) calendar days after such discussion it will be referred in writing for further review, such written notice to contain a submission In support of the objection to the newly established grade.
If the matter is not settled within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of written notice, the parties shall appoint a qualified consultant in Job Evaluation to determine the grade and his/her decision shall be final and binding. The expense of such consultant will be shared equally by the Company and the Union.
If the parties cannot agree on the appointment of a qualified consultant in Job Evaluation then proceedings will be taken under the fourth step of Article 4. In assessing the grade established by the Company for the new or changed job, the arbitration board shall consider the factors set out in the first paragraph of this section in reaching its decision.
18.3	Application of Rates. Provisions respecting the application of rates are set out in Schedule “A” attached hereto and form part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 19— Methods and Improvements
19.1	The Company continually strives to improve methods and costs and in doing so will purchase and install new and improved equipment. If such an installation results in a material change which may cause the closing of a department or substantially reduce the number of employees in a department, the Company agrees to discuss changes contemplated and matters related to such changes at least thirty (30) days prior to implementation of the changes. If, solely because of such changes, an employee is transferred to other work within the plant, (s)he will be entitled to provisions of Schedule “A” 7 and an employee with five (5) years or more seniority who cannot be placed within the plant will be eligible for provisions of Article 17, Severance Pay.
36
Years of Completed Seniority at Closing Date
Amount
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
$	380
$	380
$	580
$	780
$	980
$ 1,180 $ 1,380 $ 1,580 $ 1,780 $ 1,980 $ 2,320 $ 2,660 $ 3,000 $ 3,340 $ 3,680 $ 4,020 $ 4,360 $ 4,700 $ 5,040 $ 5,380 $ 5,790 $ 6,200 $ 6,610 $ 7,020 $ 7,430 $ 7,840 $ 8,250 $ 8,660 $ 9,070 $ 9,480 $ 9,925 $10,370 $10,815 $11,260 $11,705 $12,150 $12,595 $13,040 $13,485 $13,930
37
19.2	If an employee alleges that there has been an unreasonable increase in his/her work, the Union may request that the matter be reviewed with the Company. Representatives of the Local Union (not to exceed two) and, if desired, a full time staff representative of the Union may meet with Plant Management to discuss the facts of the case and endeavour to resolve the issue. The employee concerned may be present at these meetings if so desired by the employee or by either party.
ARTICLE 20 — Duration of Agreement
The term of this Agreement shall be from April 1. 1988 to March 31,1990 and shall continue in force after March 3f, tlM) on yearly basis, which in each instance of renewal shall be regarded as the term of the Agreement, until terminated by either party giving the other party not more than sixty (60) days, and not less than thirty (30) days, notice in writing prior to the expiration date, if amendments are contemplated by either party to become effective in the ensuing term, the party proposing such amendments shall give notice in writing thereof to the other party not more than ninety (90) days and not less than sixty (60) days prior to March 31, 1990. During the period of negotiations this Agreement shall remain in force.
ARTICLE 21 — Application
The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be effective at the commencement of the payroll week next following the date the Company receives notification from the Union that this Agreement has been ratified, except as otherwise specifically provided.
This Agreement is signed by the duly authorized officers of Local Union No. 740P U.F.C.W., and by the authorized local Operations Manager and Superintendent of the Company, as evidencing their agreement to and concurrence in its terms.
38
BURNS MEATS
A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS LIMITED LETHBRIDGE, ALBERTA
Date Signed:______________________________1989
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 740P
SCHEDULE “A” — APPLICATION OF RATES
1.	(a) The term “grade” shall mean the rate set down for labour operations under the Company's schedule, provided however the following rates apply for the first twenty-four (24) months of earnings:
Starting rate	$ 9.38 $
T Upon completion of six (6) months	10.01.
\ Upon completion of twelve (12) months-Upon completion of sixteen (16) months 11.27 Upon completion of twenty (20) months JJ.90 Upon completion of twenty-four (24)	,	'	7
' months	\I* 1) 12.5TAI '
(b)	Effective on October 2, 1989 the above table will be modified as required through the establishment of a new labour rate.
That labour rate shall be the same labour rate as established at the Canada Packers, Lethbridge
39
operation using the averaging formula contained in their 1988 • 1990 Collective Aareement.
(c)	On April 1,1989 the labour grade schedule will be reduced by two (2) labour grades for each operation.
Employees earning labour grades will have their job rates reduced accordingly, that is eight (8) cents for each labour grade by which their operation is reduced.
(i) On March 31, 1989 the labour grade schedule shall be returned to the normally applied labour arades.
(d)	The Company reserves the right to pay wages greater than the established base rate in the Collective Agreement at its discretion.
(e)	The $9.38 starting rate will apply to employees at time of hire, with exception of those classified as improvers or above in the Mechanical Department, and those hired in Fourth Class Shift Engineers or above in the Powerhouse. The starting rate for these two (2) departments shall be $12.51 provided, however, that the $12.51 start rate shall be reduced by nine (9) cents until the completion of six (6) weeks of earnings. Thereafter, the $12.51 will be reduced by only four (4) cents until the completion of twelve (12) weeks of earnings. Earnings referred to above means earnings at least equal to the guaranteed payment in any fourteen (14) months period.
2.	The term “job rate” shall mean the hourly rate determined by a combination fo grades of work regularly performed by the employee, and the job rate shall be rounded off to correspond to the nearest grade after calculating as follows:
(a)	The two highest grades covering work regularly performed by the employee shall be used; the highest at the actual time worked and the second highest for the remainder of the time worked.
(b)	When an employee spends 50% or more of his/her time on the highest grade, then the highest grade shall become the job rate.
40
3.	A new employee or a recalled employee shall receive the job rate for the work to which (s)he is assigned when (s)he becomes qualified for such qualifying period shall not be longer than six (6) weeks.
4.	Permanent Transfer. Form 300 shall indicate a permanent transfer and a copy of same shall be given to the Chief Steward immediately after the employee is advised. If an employee is transferred permanently to work where the job rate is higher, (s)he shall receive the higher rate when (s)he becomes qualified, but for purposes of application of rates such qualifying period shall not exceed six (6) consecutive weeks, after which the higher job rate shall apply. If an employee is permanently transferred to work where the job rate is lower, such lower rate shall start twelve (12) weeks, including lay-off, after the date of such transfer.
The twelve (12) week period set out in the foregoing paragraph shall be extended one (1) day for each day the employee is required to return temporarily to his/her previous higher rated work. Where the employee returns temporarily to his/her previous higher rated work for a period in excess of three (3) consecutive weeks, the twelve (12) week period set out in the foregoing paragraph will recommence when the employee is again transferred to the work where the job rate is lower.
5.	Temporary Transfer. When an employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job (s)he shall receive the higher rate provided however that such higher rate shall not be used as part of the job rate referred to in sections 2, 3, and 4 of this Article. The employee’s regular job rate (Form 300) shall apply immediately such temporary assignment ceases. Form 301 shall indicate a temporary transfer and a copy of same shall be given to the department steward. Where an employee is kept on the same temporary assignment for a period of three (3) months the rate for such assignment shall be regarded as a permanent transfer under section 4 above.
41
6.	If an employee at his/her own request is transferred permanently from work where the job rate is higher, the lower rate shall prevail immediately upon transfer.
7.	Where an employee is transferred to work where the job rate is lower as a direct result of the introduction of new equipment or where an employee remains on a job reduced in value following a technological change, his/her rate shall not be reduced for a period of three (3) years, including layoff, provided the employee accepts all opportunities for transfer to work where the job rate is higher. In the application of rates or adjustment of grades such an employee will not be paid a rate greater than the rate paid at time of transfer except for reasons of a general wage increase after date of transfer.
At the expiry of the three (3) year period set out above, the amount of rate reduction shall be limited to two (2) grades. At twelve (12) month intervals thereafter, further reductions of a maximum of two (2) grades shall take place until the lower rate prevails.
8.	An employee whose schedule calls for work to commence at any time other than between 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. inclusive shall receive a night shift premium of thirty (30) cents per hour for all hours worked between 4 p.m. and 7 a.m., such premium to be continued for hours worked after 7 a.m. where the employee was entitled to the premium for hours immediately before 7 a.m. Such premium shall not be a part of his/her regular hourly job rate.
9.	For schedule hours worked between 12:01 a.m. on Saturday and midnight on Sunday, an employee shall receive one and one-half (11/2) times his/her regular hourly rate. The foregoing shall not apply for any hours on Saturday or Sunday for which overtime or Paid Holiday rates are paid; nor does it apply where an employee commences a shift on the Sunday night and that shift runs into the Monday a.m., so long as no more than two (2) hours of the shift fall on the Sunday.
42
Part-time workers and employees hired on a casual basis shall receive a premium of twenty (20) cents per hour for hours worked between 12:01 a.m. and midnight on Saturday and thirty (30) cents per hour for hours worked between 12:01 a.m. and midnight on Sunday. Such premium shall not be a part of an employee's regular hourly job rate. The premium shall not apply for any hours for which overtime rates are paid.
10.	An employee in the Bargaining Unit designated by the Company as a group leader, a deputy of the foreman, shall receive five (5) cents above the highest rate actually paid to employees under his/her direction except in cases where the group leader is the highest rated man in which case five (5) cents shall be added to his/her job rate. The steward will be kept informed by the Company of employees under the direction of the group leader. It is agreed that a group leader shall not hire, lay-off, suspend, discharge or exercise other discipline, nor shall the group leader transfer employees to other departments unless (s)he is directed to do so by a member of management. It is further understood and agreed that a group leader shall not be retained in his/her department under Article 11, Section 2, solely because of his/her duties as a group leader.
11.	In the case of an employee who has signified his/her wish to return to his/her original department under Article 11, Section 1, but is prevented from returning solely because of the lack of a qualified replacement, (s)he shall be paid the job rate to which (s)he would be entitled in his/her original department or the rate (s)he is paid on the date (s)he is prevented from returning to his/her original department, whichever is greater.
43
SCHEDULE “B” — PAID HOLIDAYS
1. Paid Holidays
(a)	Nine Paid Holidays shall be recognized as follows:
New Year's Day	Good Friday
Victoria Day	Dominion Day
Labour Day	Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day	Remembrance	Day
First Monday in August (usually referred to as the Civic Holiday).
Boxing Day (unless mutually agreed that the day before Christmas be substituted in place of Boxing Day).
In addition to the Paid Holidays above, employees on the payroll as of April 1st each year shall be granted one (1) Individual Holday to be taken at a time to be agreed upon between the Company and the employee. Except by permission of the Plant Superintendent, an Individual Holiday shall not be granted during the period June 15th to September 15th.
(i) The Individual Paid Holiday shall not be ap-olicable to this Collective Apreement for the period April 1, 1989 to March 31, 1990 and as a result no employee shall earn an Individual Paid Holiday or be paid for same during the above defined period.
Should the plant be required by law to observe any holiday(s) other than those listed above, such holi-day(s) shall replace the Individual Holiday(s). Where, in the absence of such a legal requirement, Heritage Day is commonly observed as a holiday by a plant’s major customers, then the plant shall observe Heritage Day as a holiday in place of an Individual Holiday.
Where permitted under labour legislation if any of the Paid Holidays fall on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed as the holiday and where Mondav is also a holidav.the Tuesday will be observed as the holiday in lieu-of Monday. If Christmas Day, Boxing Day, or New Year’s Day, where applicable, fall on a Saturday, the Friday preceding shall be observed
44
and where Friday is also a holiday, the Thursday will be observed in lieu of Friday.
(b)	For each recognized Paid Holiday eight (8) hours holiday pay at his/her job rate shall be paid to a regular hourly paid employee, provided (s)he is not exempt from the weekly pay guarantee as set out in Article 1 hereof and provided (s)he has earnings on the payroll in the plant week containing the holiday. In order to qualify for holiday pay, such an employee must be in attendance at work on the scheduled work day preceding and the scheduled work day following such holiday, unless there is a justifiable excuse for the absence satisfactory to the Company.
In the case of an employee having seniority who is laid off prior to a Paid Holiday occurring in the same payroll week as the lay-off occurs and provided that such an employee, having seniority, has earnings on the payroll in the plant week during which such Paid Holiday occurs, (s)he shall not be disqualified for such holiday pay. When an employee having seniority is laid off on a Friday and a holiday occurs on the Saturday, Sunday or Monday immediately following and provided that such an employee, having seniority, has earnings on the payroll in the plant week in which the lay-off occurs, <s)he shall not be disqualified for such holiday pay. Similarly, if an employee having seniority is recalled from lay-off in a plant week containing a Paid Holiday and provided that such an employee, having seniority, has earnings on the payroll in such week, (s)he shall not be disqualified for such holiday pay.
Upon his/her return to work, an employee granted leave of absence under Article 13, section 2, will be eligible for eight (8) hours pay for any Paid Holiday occurring during such period of authorized leave of absence.
(c)	In addition to(b) above, such employee shall be paid double his/her job rate for all hours worked on the holiday as provided under (a) above.
45
2. A regular hourly paid employee otherwise entitled to paid holiday pay under this Schedule “B” who does not have earnings in the plant week containing a holiday, and who is or becomes eligible for Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation benefits, will, upon return to work, be compensated for a paid holiday occurring during such absence on the following basis:
(a)	Absence under Weekly Indemnity:
(i)	every employee will be considered a member of the Welfare Plan even though he may have refused to join the Plan or does not have sufficient service to be eligible for Welfare Plan benefits,
(ii)	when absence is due to sickess and the holiday falls during the three (3) day waiting period under the Welfare Plan, the employee will be paid full paid holiday pay,
(iii)	when absence is due to sickess or nonoccupational accident and a paid holiday occurs after the waiting period, but during the employee’s benefit period, (s)he will be paid the holiday pay less one-fifth (1/5) of the weekly benefits,
(iv)	if a paid holiday occurs on a non-scheduled day during the employee's benefit period, he will be paid full paid holiday pay.
(b)	Absence due to Non-Occupational Sickess or Accident:
(i)	where a paid holiday falls during the waiting period for Workers’ Compensation benefits, the employee will be paid full paid holiday pay,
(ii)	where a paid holiday occurs after the waiting period, but during the first twelve (12) months of Workers’ Compensation benefits, the employee will be paid holiday pay less the amount he receives in Workers’ Compensation benefits for the day of the holiday.
(iii)	if a paid holiday occurs on a non-scheduled day during the first twelve (12) months of Workers’ Compensation, the employee will be paid full paid holiday pay.
46
MEMORANDUM
REGARDING WELFARE PLANS
Weekly Indemnity
Weekly Indemnity, effective the first full pay week next following ratification of the Agreement shall be:
—	Eligible employees whose rate is
$10.50 per hour or less	$250.00/week
—	Eligible employees whose rate is more than $10.50 per hour but less than
$11.99 per hour	$270.00/week
—	Eligible employees whose rate is more than or equal to $11.99 per hour but
less than $12.39 per hour	$290.00/week
—	Eligible employees whose rate is more than or equal to $12.39 per hour but
less than $13.04 per hour	$305.00/week
—	Eligible employees whose rate is
$13.04 per hour or more	$320.00/week
The Company will continue to pay the first $4.00 of each monthly premium for the above benefits, with the balance of each monthly premium to be shared equally between the Company and the employees.
Where the employee portion of the required sick pay premium in Pay Grade Category 1 exceeds $25.00, and proportionately in Pay Grade Categories 2, 3, 4 and 5, the Company will pay the full amount of such excess premiums.
If a premium reduction is subsequently implemented, the full amount of the reduction will apply to the Company portion until such portion is reduced to $29.00 for Pay Grade Category 1, and proportionately for Pay Grade Categories 2, 3, 4 and 5. Any premium reduction below this level will be applied according to the cost-sharing provision above.
The schedule for the above benefits is as follows and indicates consecutive weeks of benefits which allow for the divorcing of this plan from the Unemployment Insurance sickness benefit:
47
Maximum Benefits
3 months seniority to 5 years seniority
26 w e e k s
— 5 years seniority up to
10 years seniority 10 years seniority and
39 weeks
over
52 weeks
As a result of the plan’s non-alignment with the U.I.C. plan the full amount of reduction in the Unemployment Insurance Premiums shall be applied towards the cost of the Welfare Plan Benefit.
In the event anv Government leaislation provides benefits for accident, illness or pregnancy during the term of this Agreement, such benefits shall be substituted for the above.
Denial Insurance Plan
Effective the first full pay week next following ratification, allowable expenses will be based on the 1988 Alberta Dental Association fee schedule if such a schedule exists, otherwise on the prevailing schedule prior to 1988.
Effective April 1st, 1989, allowable expenses will be based on the 1989 Alberta Dental Association fee schedule if such a schedule exists, otherwise on the prevailing schedule prior to 1989.
Group Life Insurance and Pension Plan Life Insurance
Life Insurance shall equal the Earnings Class of each eligible employee.
Pension Plan
Provide a non-contributory Pension Plan where:
Effective January 1, 1989 the Company will contribute twenty-seven (27) cents per qualifying hour to the Pension Fund after an employee has three full months of service.
48
Vision Care
(i)	on the date of ratification contact lenses are included in the vision care plan on the same basis as eye glasses.
(ii)	on April 1,1989 the coverage under the vision care will increase from seventy-five (75) dollars to one hundred (100) every two year period as prescribed by the plan.
Health Care
Effective January 1,1989 ambulance coverage shall be increased from twenty-five (25) dollars to fifty (50) dollars as defined by the plan.
BURNS MEATS
A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS LIMITED LETHBRIDGE. ALBERTA
Date Signed:____________________________, 1989
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 740P
49
SCHEDULE OF GRADES COVERING PLANT OPERATIONS
Sheet No. 1
BEEF DRESSING
1	Driving 7 Knocking
5	Shackling 12 Sticking
2	Catch blood
14	Head skinning
0	Cut off horns 4 Cut off head - Loosen
tongue
3	Cut off front feet 20 Skin hind leg, skin
flank, rim over 2 Operate hoist 17 Drop bung, skin tail, markaitch
23 Siding (Power Knife)
20 Clear around forequarters
15	Tend hide puller 2 Hide disposal
4	Operate winch puller
6	Saw breast bone 6 Gullet raising
4	Caul fat saving
12	Remove viscera
13	Sawing down (complete electric)
5	Scribbing
6	Trim neck, remove glands
5 Defatting
4	Trim beef
1	Washing
7	Shrouding
5	Scaling
2	Clean and hang rollers a Skin slunks
50
BEEF COOLERS 5 Scalers (Carlots)
2 Sack, wrap, stencil, stamp, brand 2 Carcass to coolers
1	Remove shrouds
5 Transfer beef using beef shifter 5 Ribbing beef
2	Lifting beef
1 Push carcass in cooler 15 Skin veal, split 0 All other operations
BEEF CUTTING 13 Head Beef Cutter (1 man)
Beef Cutters (commercial cuts, also cutting for plant market)
Beef cutting helpers Beef boners (Boning whole or cut up ccs., quarters, chucks loins and steak pieces for cuts for sale or for manufacturing)
Beef boners (Boning shanks, plates, briskets, ribs or flanks for sale or for manufacturing)
Beef packers Operate bandsaw (make cuts)
Trim meat for sausage or canning Rolling beef and veal All other operations
11
Sheet No. 2
BLOCK READY BEEF 11 Remove tie and prepare for breakup
11	Operate bandsaw,
break primal cuts 9 Trim primal cuts (bandsaw)
12	Trim primal cuts and semi-bone
3	Bag primal cuts
3	Vacuumize primal cuts
4	Pack, scale and record
BY-PRODUCTS —
TANKHOUSE
6	Wet tank operator 12 Rendering cooker operator 8 Expeller 4 Curb Press 8 Operate Titan Centrifuge
4	Lard pumpers
5	Catch basin
2	Feed hasher
8	Drying blood
4	Taurine centrifuge operator
3	Loading tank cars
9	Skin deads
0	Other general labour
3	Load cooker
4	Save foetal bovine
blood
11 Operate sharpies equipment
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
51
Sheet No. 3
BY-PRODUCTS - HIDES 6 Hide inspector and grader
4 Hide trimmer 4 Hide scaler
0	Put down or take up
hides
4 High lift and stack
1	Bundling hides 3 Salter
1	Truck and pile hides
2	Pack fancy meats
3	Trim glands, cheek meat,
etc.
0 Tanking, trucking, sweeping 0 General labour
SHIPPING 7 Deskman
4	Runner 2 Stocker
LOADING
CASINGS -BEEF AND VEAL 5 Trim paunches
5	Remove bung and ruffle
fat
2	Open and wash tripe 7 Running rounds
6	Separate beef casings
3	Open middles
6	Hand fatting middles
7	Trim bungs
2	Hand slime bungs and
rounds
3	Stripping rounds
3 Turning beef casings 2 Flush middles
2	Flush bungs
3	Run fatting machine,
slime crusher or sliming machine
4	Grade beef casings 2 Hanking and salting
4	Packing
5	Finishing tripe (edible) 5 Split head, save brains 0 Clean tripe for fox food 7 Work up beef heads
5	Trim plux 4 Trim tongues
7	Checking on loading dock
11 Receiver
7	Beef luggers (into cars only)
0 General loaders and labourers
4	Sort and load mixed merchandise
5	Sort and load mixed merchandise (including beef)
JANITORS, LAUNDRY, ETC.
0 Janitors
4	Cleanup
6	Sort and record returned product
FOR ANY JOB NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
52
Sheet No. 4
MECHANICAL
Leading Hands
41 Special machinist
41 Electrician
38 High pressure fitter
38 Carpenter and finisher
38 Pressure welder
38 Auto mechanic
Journeymen
31 All trades
Improvers
21 All trades
Helpers
4 All trades
Miscellaneous
17 Saw filer (hand file)
13	Saw filer (machine file)
21 Scale repairer
4 Mechanical storekeeper
14	Painter
6	Greaser and oiler 0 Labour
POWERHOUSE
40 Shift Eng. where 2nd class, papers required 31 Shift Eng. where 3rd class, papers required 13 Shift Eng. where 4th class, papers required 11 Boiler fireman (with papers)
7	Boilerman (no papers)
0 Power House labour
6	Temperature man
FOR ANY JOE NOT SHOWN USE GRADE 0
53
1989
United Food and Commercial Workers
International Union
Local 740P
Attention: Mr. N. Leclaire
Dear Mr. Leclaire:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 1988 negotiations, wherein it was agreed that the Company will forego the requirement of employees providing a medical certificate upon their return to work following short term illness or accident not covered by Workers Compensation or under the Company Sick Pay Plan.
It is understood by the parties that the matter of habitual and excessive absenteeism will continue to be treated as a disciplinary matter. In the event that disciplinary action is contemplated by the Company for habitual or excessive absenteeism, the employee may present a medical certificate to the Company in defense. Such medical information will be taken into consideration by the Company in assessing the disciplinary measures it may take.
Yours truly,
BURNS MEATS,
A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS (1985) LIMITED
John Froling Plant Superintendent
54
1989
United Food and Commercial Workers
International Union
Local 740P
Attention: Mr. N. Leclaire
Dear Mr. Leclaire:
Any employee of Canadian Dressed Meats (Lethbridge) Limited who, as of 15 June 1982, was receiving a pay rate higher than to what s(he) was entitled under the present Schedule of Grades was considered to carry a “Red Circle Rate”. As such (s)he was entitled to any General Increases, but not increases in labour grades on job rates, until such time his/her rate is equal to or less than the present Schedule of Grades rate at which time the “Red Circle Rate” will disappear. To continue on a “Red Circle Rate” (s)he must accept all opportunity for transfer to work where the job rate is higher. If an employee requests a transfer to a lower rated job, (s)he will not carry the “Red Circle Rate” to such lower paid job.
Yours truly,
BURNS MEATS,
A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS (1985) LIMITED
John Froling Plant Superintendent
55
1989
United Food and Commercial Workers
International Union
Local 740P
Attention: Mr. N. Leclaire
Dear Mr. Leclaire:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 1988 negotiations wherein it was agreed that the following defines the Lethbridge list as outlined in Article 12.2:
(a)	Jobs filled by employees who can perform them satisfactorily and who are able to perform their regular duties:
(1) Box making Block Ready Beef (2 shifts)
(b)	Jobs filled by employees who can perform them satisfactorily and who are temporarily unable to perform their regular duties due to temporary disability:.
(1) Bagging beef trim Block Ready Beef (2 shifts)
Yours truly,
BURNS MEATS,
A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS (1985) LIMITED
John Froling Plant Superintendent
56
1989
United Food and Commercial Workers
International Union
Local 740P
Attention: Mr. N. Leclaire
Dear Mr. Leclaire:
This will confirm our discussion during the 1988 negotiations, wherein it was agreed that the Company will confirm clothing presently issued without charge to employees under Article 16, Section 13, as of the date of ratification of the Agreement. It is further understood the Company will continue the practice of issuing freezer coats and freezer caps to employees regularly employed in the freezers.
Yours truly,
BURNS MEATS,
A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS (1985) LIMITED
John Froling Plant Superintendent
57
1989
United Food and Commercial Workers
International Union
Local 740P
Attention: Mr. N. Leclaire Dear Mr. Leclaire:
As agreed in the 1988 negotiations, reference to leather safety boots is to be incorporated in Section 16.4 of the Collective Agreement, replacing the previous reference to a leather boot allowance and a safety boot allowance.
In recognition of the previous safety boot allowance, it will remain at fourteen (14) dollars reducing to four (4) dollars on April 1, 1989. In the event that the allowance specified in Section 16.4 is increased in subsequent negotiations, the allowance specified in this letter will be equally reduced.
This additional allowance will be paid along with and will have the same qualifying criteria as that stipulated for leather safety boots under Section 16.4.
Yours truly,
BURNS MEATS,
A DIVISION OF BURNS FOODS (1985) LIMITED
John Froling Plant Superintendent
58
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
RE: PROFIT SHARING
The Darties have aareed that if the basic rate is reduced as a result of-the provisions of either Article 4.1(b) or (c), the Company will make a profit sharing payment based on any profit over $500,000 for the fiscal year ending March 31,1990, using the following formula:
The sum of:
20% of any profit between $ 500,001 ■ $ 750,000 22% of any profit between $ 750,001 - $1,000,000 24% of any profit between $1,000,001 - $1,250,000 26% of any profit between $1,250,001 - $1,500,000 28% of any profit between $1,500,001. $1,750,000 30% of any profit between $1,750,001 - $2,000,000 33 1/3% of any profit over $2,000,000 The amount as calculated above will be divided equally amont eligible employees on the payroll as of March 31,1990. Eligible employees will be defined as full-time employees with one year’s seniority as of March 31,1990.
“Profit” as used above will be interpreted to mean plant operating profit before Head Office and interest charges.
59
Signed this 15th day of January, 1988
FOR UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 740P
FOR CANADA PACKERS INC. LETHBRIDGE, ALBERTA