AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
OLYMEL S.E.C./L.P.
7550 - 40th AVENUE RED DEER, ALBERTA
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION C. L.C.
LOCAL NO. 1118
#4, 7464-50 AVENUE RED DEER, ALBERTA T4P 1X7
February 1st, 2011 - January 31st, 2016
00299. (09)
INDEX
ARTICLE	PAGE
AGREEMENT............................iv
1	General............................. 2
2	Bargaining Agency....................2
3	Management.............!.............5
4	Genders..............................5
5	Wages................................6
6	Thirty-seven hour guarantee.........10
7	Hours of work and overtime..........13
8	Statutory holidays..................27
9	Seniority...........................31
10	Vacations...........................39
11	G rievance procedures...............46
12	Safety and Health...................51
13	Separation allowance..............  61
14	Work methods .......................65
15	Contracting out.....................67
16	Part-time employees.................69
17	Leave of absence..................  71
18	General...........................  78
19	Benefits............................87
20	Duration of Agreement...............97
APPENDIX A - Jobs and jobs levels..........98
APPENDIX B - Rate of pay ...............110
APPENDIX C - Lead hand and trainers.....113
APPENDIX D - Employees documentation -sick leave or WCB...................115
ii
APPENDIX E - Maintenance
apprenticeship program............117
APPENDIX F - Modified duty placement
article 12.14.....................120
APPENDIX G - Foreign workers program...121
APPENDIX H - Foreign recruitment initiative 123
APPENDIX I - Maintenance wage survey...127
APPENDIX J - Suspensions...............130
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING...............132
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and concluded at Red Deer, Alberta this 3rd day of May, 2011.
BETWEEN:
OLYMEL S.E.C. I L.P.
7550 - 40th Avenue, Box 5641 Red Deer, Alberta (“hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, INTERNATIONAL UNION
C.L.C., LOCAL 1118
#4, 7464 - 50 Avenue, Red Deer, Alberta (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART WITNESSETH:
OLYMEL S.E.C. / L.P.	UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 1118
1
ARTICLE 1 GENERAL
One of the main purposes of this Agreement is to maintain in full force and effect a harmonious relationship between the management and the employees. To that end, the parties agree to act reasonably in the interpretation and the application of the Collective Agreement as whole, as no business can progress or prosper unless a mutual feeling of respect and confidence exists between the Management and the Organization.
ARTICLE 2
BARGAINING AGENCY
2.01	The Company or anyone authorized to act for it recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency as certified by the Labour Relations Board for the Province of Alberta, for its employees covered by this Agreement and hereby consents and agrees to negotiate with the Union, or any Committee thereof in any and all matters affecting the relationship between the said employer and employees set forth in this Agreement, who are members of the Union and who become members of the Union, which is chartered by the
2
United Food and Commercial Workers, International Union, C.L.C., Local 1118, looking towards a peaceful and amicable settlement of any differences that may arise between the Company and the Union.
The Company agrees to provide all information required by the Union as per the actual practice, including social insurance number for tracking mode electronically.
2.02	a) The Company agrees to retain in its employ, within the bargaining unit as outlined in Section 2.01 of thisAgree-ment, only members of the Union in good standing.
b) The Company agrees to provide each new employee at the time of employment with a form letter outlining to the new employee his or her responsibility in regard to Union Membership, and to provide the Union in writing with the name and address of each employee to whom they have presented the form letter, along with the employee’s date of hire, the contents of the letter to be such that it is acceptable to the Company. The Company further agrees to provide
3
the Union, once a month, with a list containing names of all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous month. The Union is responsible for supplying the form letter to the Company.
2.03	a) The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such fines, assessments and initiation fees as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. The regular monthly dues will be deducted from each bi-weekly pay cheque, and the amount of deduction will be arrived at by annualizing the deductions and dividing by twenty-six (26). The initiation fees will be deducted from the cheque for the first full pay period.
b)	The Company will procure from each new and probationary employee, the necessary membership applications and membership in the Union will be granted within the above mentioned thirty (30) day period.
c)	Money deducted from any pay period shall be forwarded by the Company
4
to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than two (2) weeks from the date the dues are deducted, and accompanied by a printed statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions are made.
ARTICLE 3 MANAGEMENT
It is agreed that the Company retains all of the customary and ordinary functions of management except as they are expressly restricted by the terms of this Agreement. Moreover, the parties acknowledge that from time to time, they have reached agreement on employment matters that do not form a part of the Collective Agreement. Management has the right to amend, vary, or establish rules and procedures provided that they are established in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 4
GENDERS
Except where specifically stated to the contrary, provisions of this Agreement apply to all employees in the bargaining unit.
5
ARTICLE 5 WAGES
5.01	Jobs, job levels, and rates of pay are attached in Appendix A and B.
5.02	When a qualified employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job, he shall receive the higher rate while doing so, but if required temporarily to fill a lower rate job he shall receive his higher rate. A qualified employee working fifty percent (50%) or more of this time on the highest rated job shall be paid that rate.
For the purposes of this section, the fifty percent (50%) calculation is done on a daily basis. If a statutory holiday falls at the end of or in the middle of a period when an employee is temporarily performing a higher rated job, the employee will be paid for the statutory holiday at the higher rated job.
5.03	a) Employees shall receive the applic-
able job rates provided for in the wage schedule for the job or jobs they perform when they become qualified.
6
b)	The word “qualified” as used in this Agreement shall be interpreted to mean ability to regularly perform the job without instruction or assistance. Except by agreement with the Union, the period of qualifying shall not exceed four (4) weeks for jobs at level 2 or lower and six (6) weeks for jobs at level 2.5 and up, after which the rate shall be paid.
c)	instruction or assistance in training any employee may be given by a supervisory officer of the Company or by an employee designated by the Plant Superintendent or Department Supervisor or lead hands. Where an employee is designated to give training, he shall receive thirty cents (0.300) per hour above his rate, or the rate of the job he is training, whichever is greater, for the period of time that he is giving training to an employee.
5.04	a) If, due to lack of work, an employee is transferred for a period of less than twelve (12) weeks to work where the job rate is lower, he shall retain his regular job rate while so doing. At the expiration of twelve (12) weeks,
7
the lower job rate shall prevail. The twelve (12) week period shall be extended one (1) day for each day the employee is required to return temporarily to his previous higher rated work. However, should the employee be returned temporarily to his former job for a period of three (3) consecutive weeks or more, the twelve (12) week period will recommence from the day he/she again returns to a lower rated job. An employee who has used both bids for the calendar year shall have one bid returned to them if their last owned job is deleted.
b) If an employee is transferred to a lower rated job on a job posting or at the employee’s request, then the lower rate of pay shall apply immediately.
5.05	a) An off shift premium of fifty cents (0.500) per hour will be paid for all hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
b) A continental premium of $1.00 per hour more for whom regular work is scheduled in the weekend;
8
c) First Aid Premium. One first aid attendant for every 100 employees; premium of twenty-five cents (0.250) per hour; to be chosen by the Health and Safety Committee.
5.06	The Company shall show on the pay envelope of each employee the hours worked regularly, those at time and one-half and those at double (2) time, the employee’s rate and total monies earned for each pay period along with a complete list of all deductions made by the Company.
5.07	An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if, as a result of such injury, he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department; but, if such is not possible, then by a Company representative. The Company agrees to provide transportation for medical treatment to employees as a result of a serious accident. The Company agrees that the intent of this clause would mean a ride to and from the hospital by ambulance or taxi. In the event the employee
9
chooses to go directly home from the hospital, the Company agrees to reimburse, upon presentation of a valid receipt, an amount up to the cost of transporting the employee.
5.08	Attached to this Agreement shall be a wage schedule covering all employees in the bargaining unit.
5.09	Employees working in the plant performing a job that requires them to work for more than one (1) continuous hour in temperatures below two (2) degrees Celsius shall receive a premium of twenty-five cents (0.250) per hour for all hours so worked.
ARTICLE 6
THIRTY-SEVEN HOUR GUARANTEE
The Company agrees to guarantee a minimum of thirty-seven (37) hours per week or pay in lieu of, except in the case of power failures or major equipment breakdowns over two (2) hours or in the case of any kind of epidemic. In which case, the minimum guarantee shall be thirty-four (34) hours per week or pay in lieu of work exclusive of overtime and night shift premium, except as herein provided.
10
If the pork industry is affected by an epidemic, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss and implement ways to maximize the work hours in the plant.
6.01	An employee who is absent from work for all personal reasons on any day that his department works, shall have his guarantee for the week concerned reduced by the number of hours missed by such absence.
6.02	An employee who is excused from work for part of a day, for any personal reason, shall have his guarantee reduced for the week concerned by the number of hours of work that he missed by such absence.
6.03	An employee who starts after the first of the payroll week shall be guaranteed for such starting week, that fraction of the guaranteed, which the number of hours remaining of the payroll week is of forty (40) hours.
6.04	Employees with seniority on layoff notice shall be entitled to their guaranteed payment for the week in which notice is given. Should notice extend into subsequent week, then the employees shall be entitled
11
to their guaranteed hours of pay for
each day of their notice period.
6.05	When it is apparent that a department is going to work less than the guaranteed hours in any one week, it is permissible to use ail of the employees of the department on other work in order to avoid the guaranteed time penalty, reasonable consideration being given to change in working conditions, ability and seniority.
6.06	The guarantee shall be the same in the holiday week as all others. Pay received for statutory holidays (or off shift days in lieu of statutory holidays) shall be considered as earnings for the purpose of calculating the guarantee.
6.07	In order to meet the demands of the business, the Company may hire part-time workers excluded from the provisions of this Article for work of twenty-four (24) hours or less in a payroll week, provided the Union is notified when the employees are hired. Such part-time workers will be the first employees subject to lay off in the event of a layoff occurring in the plant.
12
6.08	In circumstances where hours of work are being reduced to the minimum guarantee, the Company shall endeavour to ensure that employees with the greatest seniority are the last to have their hours reduced to the minimum and first to have their hours increased.
ARTICLE 7
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
7.01	a) The Company intends to operate a normal workday schedule of eight (8) hours and a normal work week schedule of forty (40) hours Monday through Friday.
b)	The schedule of hours is to be posted and a copy given to the Chief Shop Steward. When the schedule is changed temporarily, the Company will notify the Chief Shop Steward twenty-four (24) hours prior to the change taking place. When the schedule is changed on a permanent basis, the Company will notify the Chief Shop Steward five (5) working days prior to the change taking place.
13
c)	Any new shifts, which may or may not include Saturday or Sunday, must be agreed upon by both parties.
7.02	The schedule of hours referred to in Section 7.01 shall be regular schedules providing for regular steady shifts, not swing shifts. Swing shifts shall apply only by a mutual agreement with the Union Committee and the Management.
7.03	In compliance with Section 7.02, it is understood and agreed by both parties to this Agreement that the creation of steady shifts will not interfere with the efficiency of department or plant operations.
7.04	a) All time worked before or after the
above schedule of hours shall be paid for at one and one-half (114) time the employee’s regular rate of pay. If by necessity, an hourly rated employee is required to work in excess of eleven (11) continuous hours, he shall be paid double (2) time for such additional hours.
b)	The Company and the Union recognize that it may be necessary for employees to work in excess of
14
their regular number of hours due to fluctuating livestock receipts and variable volume, but the Company will limit hours of work beyond such regular number of hours to what is reasonable.
The method to be used to select employees to work any necessary overtime will be by department on a voluntary basis by seniority, but in the event the number required is not obtained by this method, it will be mandatory for employees in the reverse of seniority order.
Mandatory overtime will be limited to two (2) hours per day and eight (8) hours per week for each employee. Employees who have notified the Company of medical or dental appointments prior to the start of their shift shall be excused from the above.
Notwithstanding the above, the Company will be able to work up to three (3) Saturdays on mandatory overtime and such Saturdays will be paid at one-and-one-half (VA) times the employees regular rate.
15
These three (3) Saturdays will not be worked during long weekends and shall only be worked during the months of November, December and January.
The Company will consult with the union in determining which Saturdays are to be worked and will provide the longest possible notice, but never less than two (2) weeks prior to such Saturdays being worked.
c)	When overtime is necessary, the Union Stewart of the department concerned shall be notified. The employee posted on the job for which overtime is required shall have the first option of working the overtime. In the event this employee does not wish to work the overtime, the supervisor will then canvass the other employees within the department as to their individual wishes. This canvass is to be conducted in the order of senior qualified person, to junior qualified person.
If any qualified person is inadvertently missed in this rotation, he shall be offered the opportunity to work an amount of overtime equal to the amount that was missed.
16
In the event the necessary number of employees is not obtained within the department, the Company may draw employees from other departments in the plant on the basis of senior qualified employee available at the time overtime is requested.
Where overtime on off shifts is required, the Company shall discuss the matter with the available Shop Stewart and make the call-ins.
d)	The Company will not offer the overtime to employees absent for statutory holidays and vacation.
e)	Banking of overtime:
1.	Employees must advise the Company in writing prior to January 1st and July 1st if they elect to bank overtime instead of being paid for it; such election to be binding for the next six (6) months period and thereafter unless changed prior to the next election date.
2.	Overtime hours shall be banked in dollars at the rate the employee was receiving at the time the overtime was worked.
17
3.	The maximum amount which can be banked at any one time shall be forty (40) times the employee’s regular rate of pay.
4.	An employee desiring to take time off under this provision shall give the Company two (2) weeks written notice. A sincere effort will be made to grant time off when requested by the employee; provided that such request does not interfere with the requirements of the business or with other employees’ vacation choices.
5.	Banked time may be taken off only in increments of four (4) hours.
6.	Pay for time off shall be included in the employee’s regular payroll cheque at the employee’s current regular rate of pay and the amount paid shall be deducted from their overtime bank.
7.	Upon two (2) weeks’ notice, the employee may request to be paid out all money in their overtime bank, to be included in their next payroll cheque. Employees who
18
make this request are not eligible to bank hours until the next election date (January 1st or July 1st).
7.05	a) Overtime rates of one and one-haff (VA) time the regular hourly rates shall be paid for any time worked in excess of the scheduled hours as agreed to in this Article, up to three (3) hours in any one day and double (2) time thereafter.
b)	Double (2) the regular hourly rates shall be paid for to all employees for work performed on Sunday, except where the work regularly falls on Sunday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid double (2) the regular hourly rate if he works on his day off in lieu of Sunday.
c)	One and one-half (VA) time, the employees regular rate shall be paid for the first four (4) hours of work performed on a Saturday and double (2) time thereafter.
d)	Notwithstanding the above, employees whose regular schedule calls for work on calendar Saturdays, Sundays, or statutory holidays mentioned in this Agreement, shall be
19
paid at straight time for such scheduled hours.
7.06	Employees, when they report for work, shall be guaranteed at least four (4) hours pay for that day at their regular job rate. Under this provision, workers shall not leave of their own accord when work is available. For work performed on Saturdays, Sundays or statutory holidays, the employee shall receive at least the guaranteed four (4) hours pay for that day at the applicable overtime rate.
7.07	Any hourly rated employee who, after leaving the Company’s premises, is specially called in at any time outside his normal working hours shall be through when the emergency is over, but shall nevertheless be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rates.
7.08	Employees shall not be required, except in cases of emergency, to work more than five (5) hours without the first meal period and five (5) hours without the second meal period. The second meal period shall be one-half (Yz) hour on Company time and the
20
meal shall be supplied free of charge
by the Company. If due to circumstances the Company does not provide a meal, a cash equivalent will be added to his gross earnings for that fiscal week. The meal allowance referred to will be six (6) dollars,
7.09	Employees required to work more than five (5) hours without a meal period shall be compensated at one and one-half (VA) time the regular hourly rate for all time worked in excess of five (5) hours until a meal period is granted. Employees engaged in continuous shift operations shall be exempt from this clause, but shall be entitled to a lunch period of thirty (30) minutes on Company time. In the event of an earlier than normal start, the Company shall have the right to change the time of the meal period in order to avoid the double (2) penalty.
7.10	a) Continuous shift operations shall be
given forty-eight (48) hours notice of change of shifts except in an emergency. Employees who because of an emergency are required to change shifts, shall be paid the applicable overtime rate until the ex-
21
piration of the forty-eight (48) hours
notice,
b) Single shift employees shall be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of change of shift except in an emergency. Employees who because of an emergency are required to change shift, shall be paid the applicable overtime rates until the expiration of the twenty-four (24) hours notice. The Union will waive the shift change notice at the worker’s request, the worker shall sign a waiver notice.
7.11	a) For the purpose of dealing with changes in job starting times, shifts will be defined as follows:
Day shift Afternoon shift Night shift
6:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. 2:30 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m. to 7:30 a.m.
A job will belong to the shift within which the majority of its regular hours fall.
b) When a job’s starting time is changed, the employees in the department who work on the shift in which the job originally belonged will
22
be canvassed in order of seniority to determine who will work at the new starting time.
Should a senior employee accept the new starting time, the process will be repeated until all starting times on that shift have been assigned.
c)	Continental Work Week
The Company and the Union agree that the continental work week referred to in the Memorandum of agreement is for all new employees hired after March 11, 1989, in the shipping and maintenance department.
Continental work week means an employee may work any five (5) consecutive days with two (2) consecutive days off.
d)	Compressed Work Week of Ten (10) Hour Shifts
1.	Article 7.05 a) will not apply.
2.	If an employee is requested to work on his first two (2) days off, overtime will be paid at one and one-half (1M-) time for the first four
23
(4) hours and double (2x) time thereafter.
If an employee is requested to work on his third day off, overtime will be paid at two (2) times for all hours worked.
3.	Employees will be paid double (2) time for all hours worked on a Statutory Holiday in addition to the eight (8) hours for the Statutory Holiday.
4.	Probationary period will be four hundred and eighty (480) hours worked.
5.	Article 18.07 - substitute ten (10) hours for eight (8) hours and the balance of the article remains the same.
6.	Article 19.01 remains the same.
7.	Breaks will be 2 X 15 and 1X10 minutes paid breaks and 1 unpaid 30 minutes meal break.
Any items missed will be subject to negotiations between the Union and the Company.
24
7.12 a) A twenty (20) minutes rest period
will be given midway before lunch and a fifteen (15) minutes rest period will be given midway after lunch provided that each work period is of not more than two and one-half (2%) hours. It is mutually agreed that rest periods will not be abused.
It is agreed that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the day. The Union agrees to cooperate with the Company in its effort to curtail abuse of “personal necessity” breaks. Individuals who exceed one (1) personal necessity break per day and/or are away for more than eight (8) minutes per break may be subject to discipline.
b)	During the term of Agreement, if the Company implements new HACCP procedures that would reduce the starting time, rest periods and the end of the shift, the Company agrees to meet the union and discuss the matter, subject to the Union’s right to file a grievance according to Article 11 of the Agreement.
25
7.13	The Company and the Union agree that in the event of a work shortage, ways and means will be discussed in an attempt to shorten the working hours of the week, in preference to laying off employees.
7.14	When other emergency overtime is to be worked, every reasonable effort will be made to rehire employees who may be laid off status in the department where overtime is to be worked.
7.15	Whenever an employee performs work outside his regular schedule, he need not be required to take time off to bring his hours down to the normal working week.
7.16	Within a month from the date of ratification, all time will be paid by increments of five (5) minutes.
26
ARTICLE 8
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
8.01	a) Nine (9) statutory holidays shall be recognized. A regular employee, who has earnings on the payroll in the week containing the holiday, shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his job rate. If an employee works on any such holiday or in the case of off-shift the day in lieu of, he shall receive in addition, pay for hours actually worked on the holiday (or day substituted), at two (2) times his job rate.
The statutory holidays to be recognized are:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day First Monday in August
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
b) Employees absent on the regularly scheduled work days preceding or next following any public holiday, shall not be entitled to pay for such holiday unless the absentee received permission from the Company to be
27
absent or was absent because of sickness or for other good cause arising from circumstances beyond his control. The Company will advise the Union in writing of such deductions.
Effective immediately, all employees that are absent the day before or the day after a statutory holiday, must produce a doctor’s certificate for the day of absence. Failure to provide this to payroll office will result in no pay for the statutory holiday. This applies to absences due to sickness only.
c)	An employee with more than one (1) year of seniority shall be entitled to two (2) floater holidays per calendar year, to be scheduled by mutual agreement between the employee and the Company.
d)	The Company agrees to allow the twenty (20) most senior employees Remembrance Day as a floating Stat if requested, and as many other employees as can be accommodated by production needs.
.02 In the event of a holiday falling on Sunday, it shall be observed on the 28
day substituted by the Federal Government. If the Federal or Provincial Governments proclaim some other day to be generally observed, hourly rated employees required to work on it shall for the hours so worked receive three (3) times their regular hourly rates. If such day is in substitution for a holiday hereinafter specified, the penalty rate shall not apply to both days. If a paid statutory holiday falls on a Saturday, the Friday prior to the Saturday shall be observed as the holiday. If a paid statutory holiday falls on a Sunday, the Monday immediately following the Sunday shall be observed as the holiday.
8.03	. Any employee having fifteen (15)
days accumulated service with the Company, who is laid off prior to a recognized holiday in the same payroll week in which such holiday occurs, shall be entitled to receive pay for such holiday.
8.04	An employee who is absent from work and receiving benefits for reason of sickness compensable or non-compensable accident, during the period in which a recognized
29
paid statutory holiday occurs, shall receive the difference between his compensation or weekly indemnity pay and his regular rate of pay with limitation as defined in the Weekly Indemnity Plan.
When a recognized statutory holiday falls during the three (3) day waiting period for weekly indemnity benefits, an employee eligible for these benefits shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate of pay for each such statutory holiday.
8.05	SICKNESS SURROUNDING STAT HOLIDAY
If an employee works less than one-half (34) their regular shift the day before or the day after a statutory holiday and goes home sick, the following procedure will take place:
1.	The employee must inform the supervisor of the sickness and report to the plant nurse.
2.	If, in the nurse’s opinion the employee is sick, the employee will be allowed to go home.
30
3. If, in the nurse’s opinion the employee may not be sick, the Plant Manager or his designate and the Shop Steward will be contacted. If collectively there is still a doubt about the employee’s sickness, the said employee will be asked to go to a doctor to obtain a certificate to verify his illness.
ARTICLE 9 SENIORITY
9.01	Seniority shall be defined as the length of time of an employee’s service within the bargaining unit, calculated as the elapsed time from the day he was first employed, unless his seniority is broken, in which event such calculation shall be from the date he returned to work following the last break in his seniority.
9.02	a) New employees shall be on proba-
tion and shall not acquire any seniority rights until they have accumulated sixty (60) days worked from the date of last hire.
b) During the probationary period, an employee may be dismissed if found to be unsuitable, and such employee
31
may be discharged at any time during probation period without notice. The suitability of a probationary employee shall be determined by the Company; however, the Company shall not act in a manner that is arbitrary, discriminatory or in bad faith.
c) Upon satisfactory completion of the probationary period, the employee’s seniority shall be calculated from the original day of employment.
9.03	Seniority lists shall be revised and brought up-to-date every two (2) months, and the Company shall supply sufficient copies to the Union.
9.04	a) A vacancy exists when a job is per-
formed for an average of twenty (20) hours per week for twelve (12) consecutive weeks, or when a posted position becomes vacant due to such things as a resignation, dismissal, retirement or posting into another classification.
b) In the bargaining unit, the filling of vacancies shall be based on ability and seniority. Ability being sufficient after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. A reasonable
32
trial period shall not exceed the per-
iods indicated in article 5.03 b).
c) Vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be posted for five (5) working days to give employees ample time to apply. In the case that no applications received for any posting, the vacancy shall be filled by the junior qualified employee available in the department until the junior non-posted employee in the department is trained for the job posting. Transfers to jobs will be made within ten (10) working days from the date the posting was awarded with the provision that wherever this proves impossible, suitable arrangements will be arrived at after consultation with the Union. An employee who was absent when a vacancy is filled shall receive equal consideration provided the Department Steward notifies the Company in writing that an employee in his department wishes to apply for the vacancy. There shall be no more than two (2) jobs posting per employee per calendar year.
9.05	All training in all departments shall be done by seniority.
33
9.06	Seniority service records shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited and there shall be no obligations to rehire when an employee:
a)	Voluntary leaves the service of the bargaining unit, the Company, or is discharged for just cause.
b)	After being laid off by the Company, fails to report for work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The present method of contact, by telephone, and registered letter or courier to the employee at the last known address shall constitute a reasonable effort on the part of the Company, and if within two (2) working days after receipt of such notice the employee fails to report for duty, or advise the Company that he will report within five (5) working days, the Company shall be entitled to assume that the said employee left the Company service voluntarily.
c)	Has been laid off for a period longer than the time allowed in the following schedule:
34
Length of seniority
At date of Separation
Length of allowance
Time
Off payroll
LESS THAN ONE (1) YEAR SIX (6) MONTHS ONE (1) YEAR AND OVER TWO (2) YEARS
MAXIMUM
9.07	Absence from work because of sickness, accident, or leave of absence, shall not break continuity of seniority rights and an employee shall return to the position held prior to the absence or to one of equal rating provided he is able to perform the work that is available within the customary trial period of not more than six (6) weeks.
9.08	In case of reduction in the working force, the order of layoff shall be as follows:
a)	Part-time employees.
b)	Probationary employees.
c)	Those with plant seniority, in the latter case, seniority shall be the determining factor provided the senior operator, after a reasonable time to qualify, is capable of doing work performed by an employee with less
35
seniority except where immediate essential qualifications are necessary for the efficient operation of the plant. In such cases, the Company will discuss the matter with the Union.
9.09	a) In cases of increases in the working forces, rehiring shall be in the reverse order to that of layoffs. The Company shall advise the Union when a layoff is about to take place and shall give the Union a list of employees to be laid off or rehired, in the cases where it is necessary to secure workers in less time than required notice, the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee may recall the next senior employee and so on down the list until the vacancies are filled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time, he shall be given the work for which the next senior employee was recalled.
b) In case of layoff, other than in the event of emergencies herein referred to, employees shall be given one (1) working day’s notice for every, complete six (6) months seniority, with a minimum notice of two (2) working
36
days. In case of an emergency due to causes beyond the Company’s control which results in closing of a part or whole of the plant employees shall be given one (1) calendar day’s notice for every completed six (6) months seniority with a maximum notice of five (5) working days notice and with minimum notice of two (2) working days but such two (2) days shall be exclusive of Saturday and Sunday. If the Company determines that additional work, not to exceed three (3) days is available,at the time any layoff is to become effective then the notice shall be deemed to be extended for the period represented by such additional days of work.
c) Employees with seniority may be temporarily recalled for ten (10) working days or less, as casual help with no layoff notice given, provided that this shall not be used as discrimination to any employees and provided that the employees, and the Union is informed that such work is of a temporary nature.
9.10	When it is necessary to permanently transfer employees to lower rated jobs because of a shortage of
37
work, the employees with the lowest seniority will be required to take the transfer, in the case of temporary transfers a senior employee may take the transfer; however employees with the lowest seniority will be required to take the transfer.
9.11	In case of plant reduction or increases, an employee may elect to take a layoff or continue to be laid off if it is mutually agreed that the work, which is available, could prove detrimental to the health of the employee.
9.12	Employees shall notify the Company at once of all permanent changes of address and telephone numbers. Failure of the employee to do so will relieve the Company of any responsibilities it may have under this Agreement, unless the employee gives the Company a reasonable explanation.
9.13	Upon an employee accepting promotion outside the bargaining unit, the Company will inform the Chief Steward of the Union by letter as to the date of acceptance. Said employee shall be allowed three (3) months in which to prove himself capable of fill-
38
ing the position concerned. If such employee does not qualify within such time, the employee must bid for a new position in the bargaining unit without loss of seniority.
9.14 Duty to accommodate. Where the duty of the Company and the Union to accommodate an employee under human rights legislation conflicts with the Collective Agreement, the Company and the Union may modify the Collective Agreement to reasonably accommodate the employee, provided this does not result in undue hardship to the parties to the Agreement.
ARTICLE 10 VACATIONS
Vacations with pay should be granted as follows:
10.01	An employee becomes eligible for vacation after one (1) year when the employment records show the following:
a)	They have attained seniority within six (6) months from date of hire; and
39
b) Have not been off the payroll for more
than sixty (60) consecutive days.
Payment for this first vacation entitlement will be calculated at four percent (4%) of the gross earnings in the period.
Any employee attaining seniority rights and meeting the above requirements will have the same vacation date as seniority date.
In the event the employee is off the payroll for longer than sixty (60) consecutive days, the vacation date becomes the date of rehire.
At the time of vacation bookings, all new employees who have not achieved one (1) year of service, but who will achieve one (1) year of service before the end of the vacation year may take one (1) week of vacation after six (6) months and may book their second week of vacation prior to the end of the vacation year.
For employees whose vacation accruals exceed the vacation paid out shall receive any overages on
40
their last week of vacation or on their anniversary date.
10.02	Three (3) weeks vacation annually after four (4) years service with the Company. For new employees hired after ratification, three (3) weeks after five (5) years of service.
10.03	Four (4) weeks vacation annually after ten (10) years service with the Company.
10.04	Five (5) weeks vacation annually after nineteen (19) years service with the Company.
10.05	Six (6) weeks vacation annually after twenty-four (24) years service with the Company.
10.06	Seven (7) weeks vacation annually after thirty (30) years service with the Company.
10.07a) Pay for each week of holidays granted shall be on the basis of forty (40) hours pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate of pay of two percent (2%) of gross earnings for each week of holiday, whichever is the greater. The Company agrees that employees are entitled to receive their va-41
cation pay on the last day worked
before commencing their vacation.
b)	When an employee takes vacation and has worked on a single higher class job for more than three (3) months, he shall be paid vacation pay at the higher rate.
10.08a) Employees absent for the following reasons will not receive vacation
credits:	
1)	Suspension for up to ten (10) days;
2)	LOA for Union leave;
3)	Layoff.
1)	Employees on WCB or Wl shall receive credit up to twenty-six (26) weeks).
2)	Employees on LOA shall receive credit up to thirty (30) days.
3)	Employees off sick shall receive credit up to thirty (30) days annually.
Continuous absences greater than twenty-six (26) weeks, for Wl and WCB and thirty (30) days for LOA cannot be carried forward to the subsequent vacation year.
42
10.09	Employees whose service with the
Company terminates before the end of any vacation year, shall receive compensation in accordance with the percentage calculations outlined in Section 10.7 of this article.
10.10	Vacation periods shall be arranged subject to the demands of the business, but a sincere effort will be made to arrange vacations at a time convenient to all in accordance with the seniority of the employees respectively. Each year, upon completion of vacation lists, the Company will supply the Union with a copy of the lists, and of the vacation changes.
The Company and the Union agree to jointly develop an improved vacation scheduling procedure with the following objectives:
1.	To the greatest extent possible, vacation scheduling must be based on seniority. .
2.	In determining the number of employees to be granted vacation at any one time, consideration must be given to the staffing requirements of the company.
43
3.	Vacation scheduling will be accomplished by March 1st of each year.
4.	The Company commits to achieve a target of at least ten percent (10%) of the employees off on vacation at any time in the following departments.
5.	The mentioned list of departments is to be applied for vacation purposes only.
a)	Kill;
b)	Cut - Mezzanine (box room/ mezzanine/ receiving);
c)	Cut - Old cut (cooler/ picnic/ butts/ hams / sundries/ GSP/ bone-in cryovac / scale room / bellies/ MDM / forklifts / floor cleaners / MDM / butts & picnic chill tunnels / cryovac mezzanine butts and pack off);
d)	Cut - Boning Room (loin boning / backribs / tenderloin/ COV / knife room / spareribs / chill tunnels);
44
e)	Shipping;
f)	Maintenance.
10.11	If a paid statutory holiday falls within the employee vacation period, the Company will allow the employee concerned a compensatory day’s holiday with pay.
10.12	Vacation pay shall be paid by separate cheque with a covering statement of deductions.
10.13	The process for contacting the employees to book vacation will be as follows:
1st attempt __________In	Plant
2nd attempt __________By	Phone
3rd attempt __________By	courier	-
7 days to reply
If after seven (7) day the employee fails to respond their vacation booking will be bypassed. At that point it will be the employee’s responsibility to contact Human Resources Department to book their vacation. Their vacation will be booked by the vacation planner at the time it is booked.
45
Failure to contact will result in junior
people booking vacation prior to you.
This procedure has been adapted to ensure smooth, speedy and fair vacation booking.
ARTICLE 11
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
Should differences arise between the Union or its employee members and the Company as to the manner and application of the provisions of this Agreement, the Union will not authorize, promote, direct, condone or encourage any strike, stoppage or suspension of work, any slowdown or other restriction of production or interference with work in or about the Company’s plant or premises, nor will employees take part in any such action.
The Company agrees not to lock out employees during the term of this Agreement. An earnest effort will be made to settle all matters promptly in the following manner:
When an employee is suspended, dismissed or given discipline, the Company shall have a Union representative present at the time of such action and a maximum of two (2) representatives of management.
46
The Company and the Union will act reasonably on the application and interpretation of the collective agreement as a whole.
The Union will review and implement procedures to deal with Union time off the line and it will be limited to investigation of complaints and grievances, WCB, processing complaints and grievances and similar Union and safety matters it has to deal with.
11.01	Shop Stewards may initiate discussions with the supervisors on any potential grievances within their departments. If this action does not solve the matter, a representative of the Union will be allowed to further investigate. In the event that either a Union Steward or a Union Representative must leave his job or department in connection with the matter, he shall first notify his supervisor as to what department he is going to and give an explanation why he is going. Permission to leave his job or department will be granted as promptly as possible but shall in no case exceed one (1) hour. They must report to the supervisor in charge of the department they wish to enter before contacting any employee in said department.
47
11.02	STEP 1: The employee shall first take the question up with his Shop Steward and Supervisor at the same time.
11.03	STEP 2: If the grievance is not resolved at Step One, it shall be put in writing and delivered to the Plant Manager or a designated management representative within five (5) days of the Step one meeting.
The grievance shall be discussed within five (5) working days of the Step One meeting (or such longer period as may be mutually agreed), between the Chief Shop Steward and the Department Stewart (with or without the griever) and the Plant Manager or designated management representatives.
11.04	STEP 3: If the grievance is not resolved in Step Two, a meeting shall be scheduled between the Union Committee and the Company, within five (5) working days of the Step Two meeting, or such longer period as may be mutually agreed. The Union Business Representative and/or the grievor may attend.
48
11.05	When settlement is reached at any stage of the procedure, such decision shall be final and binding.
11.06a) Grievance should be filed and dealt with promptly. Grievances should be filed within twenty (20) working days of the event giving rise to the grievance or the date on which the grievor should have known of the grievance.
b) If an employee is dismissed for any reason and feels that he has been unjustly dismissed, he shall within three (3) working days from the receipt of notice of dismissal, notify the Grievance Committee. The Grievance Committee will in turn notify the Company on the same day they receive such notice from the employee.
The dismissal in question then shall constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with as such, beginning at the third step.
11.07	If subsequently it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he shall be reinstated to his former position and shall be compensated for any benefits or lost time. The rate
49
to be used for lost time is his applicable rate of pay.
11.08	All grievances shall be taken up on Company time during regular working hours.
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
11.09	A Grievance Committee of three (3) who shall be regular employees of the Company, shall be elected by the Union, in a manner determined by them, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of this committee. Grievance shall be taken up at such times agreeable to both parties.
11.10	Where the foregoing procedure for the settlement of disputes has been employed, and the dispute remains unsettled, within ten (10) working days, or such longer period as may be mutually agreed, the dispute shall be referred to a single arbitrator.
This single arbitrator is to be appointed by the Company and the Union, and the nominee's expenses are to be shared on a fifty-fifty (5050) basis. If the agreement cannot be reached within one (1) week as to 50
the appointment of the arbitrator, he shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour for the Province of Alberta.
In reaching its decision the arbitrator shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement. Decisions rendered shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned.
ARTICLE 12 SAFETY AND HEALTH
12.01	Co-operation of Safety. The Union and the Employer shall co-operate in establishing rules and practices which promote an occupational environment which will enhance the physiological and psychological conditions of employees and which will provide protection from factors adverse to employee health and safety.
To facilitate this, the Union shall have the right, as per the actual practice, to assist all members in filling out all WCB and related forms up to a maximum of fifteen (15) minutes. If more time is required, permission has to be granted by management personnel.
51
Work Time Studies. When there is a need for work time studies, the Company and the Union will work jointly to that end. Upon notification to the Company, the Union has the right to do work time studies and make observations and recommendations on work changes as long as it does not interfere with the plant efficiency.
12.02	Union-Employer Health and Safety Committee. A Health and Safety Committee shall be established which is composed of up to six (6) union and six (6) Employer representatives. The parties can mutually agree to add a seventh representative if deemed advantageous. If a full second shift is put in place, each side will increase their representatives to eight (8). The Health and Safety Committee shall hold meetings as requested by the Union or by the Employer for jointly considering, monitoring, inspecting, investigating and reviewing health and safety conditions and practices, and to improve existing health and safety conditions and practices.
Minutes shall be taken of all meetings and copies shall be sent to the
52
Employer and the Union. A Union Health and Safety Representative shall have the right to participate in the monitoring of the work place and to accompany government safety inspectors on inspection tours.
12.03	Health and Safety Committee Pay Provisions. Time spent by members of the Committee in the course of their duties shall be considered as time worked and shall be paid for in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
12.04	Health and Safety Clothing, Tools and Equipment. The Employer shall provide all employees working in any unsanitary or potentially hazardous jobs with all the necessary tools, protective equipment and clothing required. These shall be maintained and replaced, where necessary through normal wear and tear at the Employer’s expense. It is recognized that such protective equipment and clothing are temporary measures. The conditions necessitating their use shall be subjected to further corrective measures through engineering changes or the elimination of the hazard.
53
12.05	The Employer shall provide and maintain work place monitoring equipment for detecting and recording potential and actual health and safety hazards.
12.06	Compliance with Health and Safety Legislation. The Employer shall comply with all applicable federal, provincial and municipal health and safety legislation and regulations. All standards established under the legislation and regulations shall constitute minimum acceptable practice to be improved upon by Agreement of the Union-Employer Health and Safety Committee or negotiations with the Union.
12.07	Disclosure of Information. The
Employer shall provide the Union written information, which identifies all the biological agents, compounds, substances, by-products and physical hazards associated with the work environment. Where applicable, this information shall include, but not restricted to, the chemical breakdown of trade name descriptions, information on known and suspected potential hazards, the maximum concentration exposure levels, precautions
54
to be taken, symptoms, medical treatment and antidotes.
12.08	Safety and Health Records. Records and Data, the Employer shall provide the Health and Safety Committee upon request all accidents and reports and other health and safety records in their possession of the Employer, including records, reports and data provided to and by the Workers’ Compensation Board and other governmental departments and agencies.
Upon receiving a release form signed by the affected employee, the Company will provide the Union’s designated Workers’ Compensation advocate with all information pertaining to the employee’s Workers’ Compensation claim or work related injury.
12.09	Time Off for Health and Safety Training. Union members of the Health and Safety Committee shall be entitled to time off from work with no loss of seniority or earnings to attend seminars sponsored by the Alberta Workers’ Compensation Board for instruction and upgrading on health and safety matters.
55
Attendance at seminars sponsored
by other recognized educational groups would be granted on the same terms and conditions, subject to mutual agreement as to its benefit.
12.10	Rights to Refuse and No Disciplinary Action, No Employee shall be discharged, penalized or disciplined for refusing to work on a job or any workplace or to operate any equipment where he/she in conjunction with the Health and Safety Committee, ascertains that it would be unsafe or unhealthily to himself/herself, an unborn child, a workmate or the public, or where it would be contrary to applicable federal, provincial or municipal health and safety legislation or regulations. There shall be no loss of pay or seniority during the period of refusal. No employee shall be ordered or permitted to work on a job, which another worker has refused until the matter is investigated by the Health and Safety Committee and satisfactorily settled.
12.11	Proper Training. No employee shall be required to work on any job or operate any piece of equipment until he/she has received proper training and instructions.
56
12.12	Transportation of Accident Victims. Transportation to the nearest physician or hospital for employees requiring medical care as a result of an accident shall be at the expense of the Employer. If such accident happened on the work site or while the employee was under the direction of the Employer.
12.13	Health and Safety Grievance.
Where a dispute involving a question of general application or interpretation of this Article occurs, it shall be subjected to the grievance procedure.
12.14	Modified Work
The assignment of an employee to modified work shall the subject of mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. The intent of modified work is to assist the worker to return to work in a safe and healthy atmosphere. In order for the modified work program to be successful, all parties have to see the placement as beneficial. Working towards this, the Company and the Union agree to the following process.
1.	The company and the Union identify and trains persons for the 57
purpose of placing workers on modified duty. This will create a committee.
2.	The above committee will be responsible for placing injured workers in the appropriate jobs.
The process should be as follows:
1.	The injured worker is sent for medical attention and returns the following day with the medical restrictions.
2.	The worker returns the following day at the time scheduled by the occupational health nurse responsible for the health office, to turn in the medical restrictions to the health office, for the committee to review. If there is no work available, the worker then returns home, where he is to be contacted.
The committee reviews the restrictions and identifies jobs to be offered to the injured worker the following day.
58
The following day the worker attends work and sits with the committee to be assigned to modified work.
These days would be considered no time loss claims as the Company pays for the missed time.
These days not at work, would allow for further medical investigations and physical therapy.
12.15	Employees requiring treatments for work related injuries after the day of the accident shall be allowed a maximum of six (6) visits at one (1) hour of paid time per visit.
The following conditions shall apply:
1)	Must be a work related injury and WCB claim filed.
2)	Must be doctor or chiropractor referral.
3)	Employees must punch their time card out and upon return have supervisor sign to adjust time accordingly.
4)	If WCB claim is rejected, the hours paid for this policy will be deducted from the next pay cheque.
59
12.16
ERGONOMICS COMMITTEE
1.	The Company and the Union recognize that repetitive strain injuries are complex issues. The purpose of the Ergonomics Committee is to work with the Joint Health and Safety Committee in identifying potential ergonomics problem areas and recommending potential solutions. The Company recognizes that worker involvement is crucial to the success of any ergonomics program.
2.	The Company will form a Plantwide Ergonomics Committee comprised of two (2) management representatives and two (2) bargaining unit employees designated by the Union.
3.	The Ergonomics Committee will act as a sub-committee of the Joint Health and Safety Committee.
4.	The Ergonomics Committee will hold monthly meetings.
5.	The Ergonomics Committee is responsible for submitting recommendations to the Joint Health and Safety Committee.
60
ARTICLE 13
SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
13.01	Should it become necessary to close the plant or a substantial department of the plant and it is not expected that those affected will be reemployed; a separation allowance will be paid to employees subject to the following:
a)	They have one (1) or more years’ seniority.
b)	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid off within ninety (90) days preceding the date of notice of closing. Employees on leave of absence up to one (1) year, and employees receiving Workers’ Compensation or off because of sickness or non-compensable accident will be eligible, provided they have not been off work in excess of the time limits corresponding to seniority as set out in Article 9.06 c).
c)	They have not been granted retirement pension.
d)	The closing is not brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage,
61
slowdown or other cessation of work, fire, government action or Act of God.
e)	In order to qualify for separation allowance, employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
f)	Separation allowances shall be computed on the basis of the following schedule which is to be used in computing the number of weeks’ pay according to the years of credited service. Payments are to be computed on the basis of forty (40) hours per week or the employee’s basic work week if different at his regular rate of pay.
Years of credited service Weeks/of Pay
1	1
2	VA
3	2
4	21/2
5	3
6	3/4
7	4>2
8	51/2
9	61/2
10	TA
11 and over, add to one and one-half (11/2) weeks’ pay for each
62
year of credited service above ten (10) years.
Example:
Twelve (12) years of credited service:
First ten (10) years of credited
service............VA weeks’ pay
Service over ten (10) years
(12/10 or 2 x VA) ....3 weeks’ pay
Total Separation
Allowance..........1014 weeks’ pay
To the separation allowance computed as per example add vacation pay for current calendar year if the employee has qualified for but not taken such vacation.
g)	The Company shall give notice of its intention to close the plant or a substantial department of the plant referred to in this Agreement, at lease ninety (90) calendar days prior to such closing. Effective on the date of such notice being issued, all employees with seniority will be eligible to receive separation payments whether they are working or laid off.
13.02	Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall on doing so terminate
63
their seniority and employment relationship with the Company, and shall have no further rights under this Agreement or under any other Agreement between the signing parties.
13.03	In the event that part of the plant remains open, employees eligible to receive separation allowances may elect to remain on the seniority list for possible recall. The Company will hold the separation allowance for such employees as long as they are eligible for recall, during which time the employee may request payment subject to the provision of the above section. Those reemployed on this basis will receive seniority credits up to the time of their layoff but shall not accumulate additional seniority during the period of layoff.
13.04	In respect of those employees who are eligible for separation allowance under this Article, the Company will continue to contribute to the Group Life Insurance, Medical Surgical, Major Medical and Hospitalization plans. Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to three (3) months following the month in which
64
the plant is closed and will be made on the basis existing at the time of closing.
ARTICLE 14 WORK METHODS
Change in Working Methods
14.01	a) When the introduction of new equipment makes a material change the Company will inform the Union of such change as soon as possible, but in no case less than sixty (60) days in advance of the contemplated change. The parties will discuss what is expected to take place and how the matter may best be handled.
b)	For Employees who are affected, placement in the plant will be covered by the provisions set out in article 5.02.
c)	For Employees with one (1) or more years of seniority who are affected by such change and who are not eligible for such placement in the plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Article 13.
65
d)	Where an employee is transferred to work where the job rate is lower, as a direct result of the introduction of new equipment, or where an employee remains on a job reduced in value following a technological change, his rate shall not be reduced for a period of two (2) years, including layoff, provided that the employee accepts all opportunities to post to work where the job rate if higher, unless it is unreasonable to expect such employees to apply due to such things as age, health, working conditions, and the employee’s ability to learn the job. Where an employee after a sincere effort is unable to qualify, his rate protection shall not be affected.
e)	In the application of or adjustment of level values, such an employee will not be paid a rate greater than the rate paid him at the time of above mentioned posting, except for reasons of a general wage increase after the date of transfer. At the expiring of the two (2) years period set out above the lower rate shall prevail.
66
f)	If the Company creates a new job or combines existing jobs or substantially changes the duties of existing jobs, the Union will be given written notice.
g)	Establishing rates for new jobs.
For the purpose of this clause, a new job is defined as one which is not presently being performed in the bargaining unit. Additions or changes to the present wage schedule shall be the subject of collective bargaining between the Company and the Union. Any new job rates agreed to shall be retroactive to the date on which the new job or jobs began.
ARTICLE 15 CONTRACTING OUT
15.01	The Company prefers to have work done by its employees although at times it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors. The relevant factors which the Company will consider before contracting out such work include, adverse effect on employees, availability of required skills, duration and frequency of the job, urgency of the job, cost of
67
equipment in relation to its use and
relative cost comparison.
15.02	When work is performed on the premises by outside contractors represents a material change in practice and has adverse effect on present employees of a group affected by such change of practice, the matter might be the subject of a grievance and may be taken to arbitration.
15.03	Should an Arbitration Committee be called on the review the Company’s action, it may consider the relevant factors referred to above, in order to determine the reasonableness of the Company’s action with regard to all circumstances. Should the Arbitration Committee find that the Company’s action was not reasonable, the Committee will direct that the Company choose between having the work performed by its employees or ceasing such operation, and that the Company shall have a reasonable time to effect the decision.
15.04	This provision does not apply to installation and construction work.
15.05	The Company may at times experiment to determine if work can be per-
68
formed effectively and economically by its own employees. When this is done for a trial period, it shall not be considered a change of practice should the Company elect to contract out, after the trial period.
15.06	During the term of the Agreement, the Company will not contract out new or existing bargaining unit work in maintenance, pork cut, kill floor, shipping and distribution and any further processing meat activities at the location of 7550, 40 Avenue, Red Deer, Alberta.
ARTICLE 16
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
16.01 In order to meet the demands of the business, the company may hire part-time workers for work of twenty-four hours in a payroll week, subject to the following conditions:
a)	Part-time employees are excluded from the application of Article 6;
b)	Part-time employees will be scheduled on Saturday and Sunday and be offered call-in work on Fridays and Mondays when available;
69
c)	Part-time employees seniority will be based on all hours worked including overtime with probation period of 480 hours. The Union will be notified of all part-time employees hired;
d)	A limit of ten (10) part-time employees in the Shipping department only;
e)	Part-time employees: safety shoe allowance will be 50% of a full time employee’s allowance.
f)	Part-time employees will be eligible to bid on a full-time job based on his seniority;
g)	In case of layoff, part-time employees will be the first to be laid off;
h)	The job will be shipper position at level 3.5;
i)	The union may submit and the Company will consider alternative means of doing the required work rather than employ part-time employees. Such matters may be subject to grievance and arbitration procedure;
j)	Where the work performed by parttime employees can be satisfactorily
70
combined to permit employment of a full-time employee, this will be done.
ARTICLE 17 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
17.01a) At the option of the Company, when an employee’s personal affairs make it desirable for him to be relieved of Company duties, leave of absence without pay beyond the regular vacation period to which an employee is entitled may be granted for good and sufficient reason. This is providing that such leave of absence does not interfere with the requirements of the business. It is agreed that leaves of absence shall not interfere with other employee’s vacation choices.
b)	No more than one percent (1%) of the bargaining unit employees will be granted a leave of absence of longer than three (3) days at any one time. Employees must exhaust all vacation before commencing an unpaid leave of absence exceeding three (3) days. An employee requesting a leave of absence to travel overseas for special circumstances will not be granted a leave of absence more than once every three (3) years.
71
17.02	Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing any employee to take another position temporarily, try out new work or venture into business for himself.
17.03	Leave of absence, before being granted, must be requested in writing and approved by the Company in writing.
17.04	An employee on personal or Union leave of absence shall be paid statutory holiday pay when either of the following conditions exists:
a)	If an employee works his regular ; scheduled work day preceding a paid
statutory holiday and is on leave of absence on the regularly scheduled work day next following that stat, he shall be eligible for payment of stat pay for that statutory holiday.
b)	If an employee works his last regularly scheduled work day prior to going on leave of absence and, as expected, returns to work on the regularly scheduled work day next following a paid statutory holiday, he shall be eligible for payment of stat pay for that statutory holiday.
72
17,05 Employee, not to exceed six (6),
who are appointed to or elected to do business for the Union shall be granted leave of absence without pay to attend such business. Such employees shall continue to accumulate seniority for the period covered by this Agreement, and upon giving the Company one (1) week’s notice in writing of their intention to return to work, shall be reinstalled in the job held prior to the leave of absence or its equivalent, at the same rate of pay provided they are capable of doing the job within the usual qualifying period. However, after a period of six (6) months from the beginning of the leave of absence, the job left by the employee on leave of absence will be posted.
In the event an employee is granted a leave of absence under this section his benefits will be paid by the Company and the Union will reimburse the Company for all benefits.
Employees on leave of absence for union business will not receive pension benefits. If the employee returns to work, and remains at work for the same amount of time they were
73
gone on Union leave of absence, the Company will make a payment into the employee’s pension in the same amount as would have been contributed during the period of the Union leave of absence.
17.06 Upon request from the Union, the Company will grant employees unpaid leave of absence for Union business, providing these absences shall not unreasonably effect the operation of the Company. No more than ten (10) employees per shift from the plant will be split between all departments including two (2) employees from any one (1) line chosen by the Union will be on leaves of absence for this purpose at any time, and such leaves shall not exceed thirty (30) days. The Union shall give the Company at least fourteen (14) days notice, when possible, before the requested leave is to commence when more that ten (10) employees are needed for negotiations, attending Union school, conventions or conferences and five (5) working days notice, when possible for monthly meetings or short-term leaves of absence. A request for an extension of a leave must be made at least five
74
(5) working days, when possible, prior to the expiration of the leave already granted and will be considered in relation to existing conditions.
17.07 Maternity Leave. A female employee with twelve (12) months seniority, who applies in writing for a leave of absence at least four (4) weeks prior to the day she intends to take such leave, as a result of her pregnancy, and provides support in the form of a medical certificate from her doctor which certifies that she is pregnant and the estimate date of delivery, shall be granted a maternity leave of fifteen (15) weeks.
a)	Employees with more than six (6) months of service but less than twelve (12) months shall be entitled to leave of up to fifty-two (52) weeks without pay or benefits from the Company and will be placed on the job they held prior to leaving with the same rate.
b)	Employees on such leave will upon expiry of the leave be reinstated to their former job or one of equal value.
c)	It is agreed that employees referred
75
to in this clause shall continue to ac-
cumulate seniority.
17.08 Parental Leave. Every employee who has completed twelve (12) months seniority and who applies in writing for a leave at least four (4) weeks prior to the date she/he intends to take a leave and providing such request is supported by the appropriate documentation, shall be granted a parental leave of thirty-seven (37) weeks if:
a)	1. In the case of female employee, becomes the natural mother of a child.
2.	In the case of male employee, becomes the natural father of a child or assumes the actual care and custody of his newborn child, or
3.	She/he adopts a child under the law of the province; and
b)	Parental leave must commence no later than the first anniversary of the birth or adoption of the child or of the date on which the child comes into actual care and custody of the employee.
76
c)	Employees on such leave upon the
expiry of the leave shall be reinstated in the position he/she occupied at the time his/her leave commenced in a comparable position with not less than the same wages and benefits.
d)	Seniority shall accumulate throughout such periods of leave.
e)	Employees who wish to take parental leave upon completion of a maternity leave must take both leaves continuously, without break, unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the employee and management.
17.09	Political Service Leave. Upon written request, the Company will grant employees unpaid leave of absence to serve as an elected member of the Provincial Legislature, or the Parliament of Canada, on the following conditions:
a)	Written request will be forwarded at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date of leave is to commence;
b)	Employees on political service leave will not accumulate seniority, and upon returning to the Company their
77
seniority date will be adjusted ac-
cordingly;
c)	Employees on political service leave will notify the Company in writing on their intention to return to the employment of the Company at least one (1) month prior to the date of employment with the Company is to recommence;
d)	Employees on political service leave will not receive coverage under the Company’s benefit plans.
ARTICLE 18 GENERAL
18.01	The Company shall supply bulletin boards for the use of the Union, for the posting of notices of official union business, such notices to be approved by the Management.
18.02	Laundry Work service for outer work clothing shall be maintained at no cost to the employee.
18.03	The Company will allow the employee’s adequate relief as well as necessary time for changing clothing or equipment necessitated by a change in working conditions.
78
18.04a) The Company and the Union agree
to supply a copy of this Agreement to each employee of the Company affected thereby.
The Company will pay fifty percent (50%) of the cost of printing the collective agreement booklets.
b) Authorized Union Officials shall have a maximum of thirty (30) minutes on Company time and on Company premises with new employees during their first three (3) days of employment.
18.05	The Company agrees to provide a full day’s pay to any employee suffering an emergency sickness which requires absence during such day for medical or hospital attention. To be eligible for this pay, the employee must report to his supervisor, the plant nurse or the first aid attendant before leaving the plant.
18.06	Employees who have completed the probationary period and are summoned to appear for Jury Duty, or who serves on Jury Duty, or is a Subpoenaed Witness shall be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for
79
jury service and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such days with their regular department. If the subpoena for witness is the result of the employee working on another job, this clause will not apply.
18.07	Employees who have completed the probationary period, and upon proof of death of an immediate family member shall receive 24 hours pay to allow for grieving, provided that the employee takes the allotted 3 days off. These days can be used to attend the funeral or memorial service or in preparation for these or just to grieve.
For the purpose of this clause, immediate family shall be one of the following: spouse, daughter, son, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-inlaw, father-in-law, stepparents, stepchildren, grandparents and grandchildren.
In case of grandparents-in-law, son-in-law and daughter-in-law, the employee is entitled to the day of the funeral or memorial service or in
80
18.08a) Launderable outer work clothing, oilskin aprons and oilskin sleeves, specified by the Company as required for work in the plant, will be supplied to employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and shall not be removed from the Company’s premises except in the regular performance of duty, and must be returned for new issue or upon separation of the employee. Clothing not returned when worn out or upon separation will be paid for by the employee.
b) The Company agrees to supply rubber boots to employees who have completed their probation. Worn out boots must be returned to the Company before a new pair will be issued. These rubber boots remain in the property of the Company and must not be removed from the premises. Upon separation, any employee not returning the boots will be responsible to reimburse the Company for the cost of the boots.
Any employee with seniority who chooses not to wear the Company provided rubber boots will be granted 81
one (1) footwear allowance of a maximum of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per year from the date of purchase.
c) The Company agrees to grant all fulltime employees with seniority who hold a freezer or shipping posting, an allowance for freezer apparel of $400.00.once a year (must have GST number). If the employee chooses to terminate employment within six (6) months of date of purchase, freezer apparel allowance will be paid back to the Company on a pro-rated basis.
All employees holding a pack off and export jack operators postings will receive an apparel allowance up to a maximum of $220.00 per year.
18.09a) Tools - Mechanical Tradesmen of the Mechanical Department with seniority, shall upon presentation of required tools broken on the job and worn out required tools, receive replacement tools. Such replacements shall be limited to those specified by the company as being required and shall in addition be limited to a maximum of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per year, per affected employee.
82
b)	The Company shall provide all
sharpening equipment, and a qualified operator for the sharpening of tools, knives, etc. This operator will be responsible for all sharpening of this equipment in the plant.
c)	The Company shall furnish all knives, scabbards, and hooks necessary for the performance of the work by the employees and shall establish regulations in respect thereto. The Company agrees to maintain its present practice of furnishing heavy tools. All tools furnished shall remain Company property.
18.10	The Union shall be notified by Management regarding the rate of pay and place of employment of each new employee.
18.11	The Company shall reimburse the employees for the renewal of all necessary licenses required in the performance of their duties.
18.12	Management personnel shall not assume duties that are normally performed by hourly paid employees except where such duties are limited to occasional work, negligible in
83
amount, but such management personnel shall in no way be restricted from work which:
a)	Is of a confidential clerical nature.
b)	Is for purpose of instruction, experimentation, demonstration, investigation, replacement of an employee absent from his job during the day, or coping with an emergency. An emergency herein shall not be construed as including work resulting from additional volume.
c)	Is to overcome production difficulties caused by the absence of an employee. In such cases, the Company will advise the Union as to the absences of the employee and will obtain a suitable replacement within one-half (Vz) day.
18.13	In enforcing its discipline policy, the Company will not base individual discipline on any suspension or written warnings occurring more than one (1) year from the date of the current incident.
18.14	The Company agrees to advance to employees awaiting wage loss bene-
84
fits under the Workers’ Compensation Board Act or Weekly Indemnity Contract, the amount of benefits due up to the maximum amount of accrued vacation pay due to the employee. This is provided the following:
a)	There is at least a two (2) week lapse of time since the benefits became payable.
b)	The employees have completed all necessary forms.
c)	The doctor’s report as required by the Workers’ Compensation Board has been completed and forwarded to the Board; or in the case of the Weekly Indemnity Contract all required forms have been completed and forwarded to the Company.
The amount of funds advanced under the section is strictly an advance to the employee, and the employee must sign a letter to this effect which would also authorize the Company to deduct money from the first full pay cheque and apply the funds to repay the advance.
85
18.15
In the event of any walkout or stoppage of work, the Union shall not do or permit to be done, anything by any of its members to prevent engineering and maintenance staff from continuing all or any part of their regular duties. Furthermore, the Union shall co-operate and assist the Company in taking reasonable precautions to protect perishable products, but such assistance shall only extend through such period as the Company does not attempt to restore normal production.
18.16	Any agreed working conditions now in effect at the time of ratification and not specifically covered by this agreement, shall remain in effect unless changed by collective bargaining.
18.17	Starting February 1st 2007, the Company will contribute three cents (0.030) per hour to the Education Training Trust Fund.
18.18	This is to confirm that the Company will supply the Union with an adequate office space in the plant for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
86
18.19	The Company will issue a manual cheque for any company-caused pay error of an amount greater than $50.00.
ARTICLE 19 BENEFITS
19.01a) The Employer agrees to pay its portion of the cost, or premiums to provide the specified employee benefits. Cost of the benefit plans will be paid by the Company, except for the Weekly Indemnity Plan (which shall be shared equally by the Company and the employees) and the longterm disability plan (which shall be paid by the employees).
b)	Effective May 4th, 2011, the Employer agrees to remit a monthly contribution of $155.28, of which $111.95 is the company’s contribution and $43.33 is the employee’s contribution, for all current bargaining unit employees to the UFCW 1118/OIymel S.E.C./ L.P. Benefit Trust Fund (the “Fund”) for the duration of the agreement.
All new employees hired after date of ratification are eligible for supplementary healthcare, including dis-
87
ability coverage, after completion of their probation, and will be eligible for dental care after one year. Once the probation period is completed, the Company will contribute $117.14 monthly of which $73.81 is the Company’s contribution and $43.33 is the employee’s contribution, until they reach 1 year of employment.
c)	Effective February 1sf 2012, February 1st 2013, February 1st 2014, February 1st 2015, the Employer will increase its contribution by $2.75 monthly, if necessary, it being understood that the said increase will be determined at the discretion of the Board of Trustees of the Fund and will be used to offset any related increase to the cost of providing the benefit Plan.
d)	New employees hired after date of ratification may, after having completed their probation period, elect to take the dental plan by paying the full premium as set by the trustees to cover these protections, until they reach one (1) year of service.
e)	Premiums for Long Term Disability Plan and premiums for the Weekly Indemnity Plan paid by the employee
88
will be deducted from the employee’s cheque for the first full pay period.
19.02	The Employer will remit the contributions outlined in 19.01 above, every 2 weeks, to correspond with payroll.
19.03	Any disputes regarding the payment of benefits are a matter between the employee and the insurance carrier, and are not subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure of this Agreement.
19.04	Unless otherwise specified, entitlement to benefit coverage under this Article begins only after completion of the probation period.
Weekly Indemnity
19.05a) Weekly indemnity benefits will be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan as detailed in the “Group Benefits” booklets prepared by the Insurance Company, a copy of which shall be provided to the Union and employees.
b) Benefits payments shall be based on sixty percent (60%) of the claimant’s regular weekly earnings (forty
89
(40) hours at regular rate), exclusive of overtime, premiums, etc., immediately preceding the claim up to the current El weekly benefit maximum.
c)	Service scale for duration of payment is:
3 months to 18 months service.....
.........................15 weeks
18 months to 5 years service......
.........................16 weeks
5 years to 7 year service.........
.........................26 weeks
7 years to 10 years service.......
.........................34 weeks
10 years and over........52 weeks
d)	The waiting period shall be three (3) working days, except when an employee is hospitalized during the waiting period due to an illness or accident. Benefits shall be paid on the basis of working days, not calendar days.
e)	Claims must be submitted no later than fifteen (15) working days from the first day of absence, unless there is a reasonable explanation given.
f)	In the event an employee has a claim refused by the Workers’ Compensation Board for reasons of “non-com-
90
pensable claim” he shall become eligible for benefits under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. This is provided the terms and conditions of the plan are met. In addition, the employee must sign a statement to the effect that if benefits are subsequently received form Workers’ Compensation Board for the claim, benefits received under the Weekly Indemnity Plan must be repaid to the insurer. Both the Company and the Union agree that in the event a claim refused by the Workers’ Compensation Board would appear to be appeasable, the employee should be encouraged to proceed with an appeal.
g)	Where there has been a delay in the payment of Workers’ Compensation Benefits, employees will be advanced payment under the terms of the Weekly Indemnity Plan, subject to the following:
i)	The employee has completed all the necessary forms.
ii)	There has been a delay of two (2) weeks or more since the benefits became payable.
91
iii) The employee will authorize, in writing, repayment by the Workers’ Compensation Board directly to the Weekly Indemnity Plan, when Workers’ Compensation Benefits become available.
h)	In the event that the Workers’ Compensation claim has been denied, and the terms and conditions of the Weekly Indemnity Plan have not been met, the employee will repay all amounts previously advanced.
i)	It is not intended that an employee receive wage loss payment from more than one (1) source for the same period which exceeds one hundred percent (100%) of normal wages. It is understood that in those situations, the insurance carrier may recover amounts in excess of one hundred percent (100%) in accordance with the subrogation provisions of the plan.
Group Life and AD & D
19.06	The Group Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Benefits is thirty thousands dollars ($30,000.00).
92
Alberta Health Care
19.07	Alberta Health Care coverage is provided for all eligible employees.
Extended Health
19.08	This plan includes vision care coverage of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) every twenty-four (24) months and hearing aids with a five hundred dollars ($500.00) lifetime limit per person. Details of the plan have been provided to the Union.
Long Term Disability
19.09	A Long Term Disability Plan is provided for all eligible employees. Premiums are paid by the employees. If at any time during the term of this Agreement a majority of employees vote to discontinue the plan, then the plan will be cancelled.
Dental Plan
19.10	The plan will pay eighty percent (80%) of Basic Preventative Dentistry with recall exams once every nine (9) months. Major Dentistry will be reimbursed at sixty percent (60%). Basic
93
and Major Dentistry have a maximum of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per year. Orthodontic expenses will be reimbursed at fifty percent (50%) for dependent children and employees with a lifetime maximum of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
Benefits will be paid in accordance with reasonable and customary charges in the area where service is provided.
Pension
19.11	Pension: increase to $39.00 per month starting February 1st 2013 and to $40.00 starting February 1st 2015;
For all new employees hired after ratification:
$25.00 per month for a period of 4 years. After that period, regular amount as mentioned above.
Eligibility of new employees after 2 years of service.
Employees hired prior to February 1, 2003, who will be 55 year of age may elect to retire from the company
94
if they have a minimum of 10 years if service at the time of their retirement, and receive five hundred ($500.00) dollars per month till the age of sixty (60). Major medical, dental, travel and E.A.P. will continue to apply to the employees.
Employee Assistance Plan
19.12	The Company will pay the cost of an Employee Assistance Plan.
Continuation of Premiums
19.13	The Company shall continue to pay the premiums for Alberta Health Care, extended health care, and life insurance for eligible employees on weekly indemnity or long term disability, for a maximum of three (3) years from the date the absence commenced, as long as the employee remains eligible under those disability plans.
Abuse of Benefits Plans
19.14	Misrepresentation in connection with claims for benefits shall be grounds for discipline up to and including dismissal.
95
As discussed and agreed during the negotiation for the renewal of the Collective Labour Agreement, this is to confirm that Olymel S.E.C / L.P. agrees to establish an Advisory Benefits Committee comprised of Union and management representatives.
The role and responsibilities of the Advisory Benefits Committee will be jointly determined by the Union and Olymel S.E.C / L.P. Such a role may include, without being limited to, the monitoring of the financial information and the review of the benefit plans referred to in Article 19 of the Collective Labour Agreement. The Company agrees to provide the Union Executive and Committee members with the relevant and available information or documents necessary to fulfill the Committee’s mandate.
Nothing arising from this Advisory Benefits Committee is intended to change and/or supersede Union and/or management rights as detailed in the Collective Labour Agreement or other agreements that have been entered into by the parties and
96
is subject to grievance and arbitration procedure. The Committee will work on jointly agreed issues that relate to matters post the acquisition of Fletcher’s Fine Foods Ltd. By Olymel S.E.C / L.P.
ARTICLE 20
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
20.01	Agreement expires on 31st day of January 2016.
20.02	This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect during any period of negotiation until:
a)	The Union commences a lawful strike;
b)	The Company imposes a lawful lockout;
c)	The parties ratify a new collective agreement.
All appendixes are incorporated into the Collective Agreement.
97
APPENDIX A
JOBS AND JOB LEVELS
All jobs will be individually posted
Job	Level
Kill Floor
Blood Clot Trimmer.......................B
Box Room.................................B
Casing Hanger............................B
Casing Salter............................B
Cooler B +freezer pay
Dump Visceria............................B
Ear & Snout Packer...................... B
Fancy Packer (special)...................B
Feed Held Line...........................B
Floor Cleaners.......................... B
Heart Sorter...........................  B
Heart, Skirt Packer....................  B
Held Line Hog Pusher.....................B
Held Line Switch.......................  B
Hog Drivers............................  B
Hog Straightener / Toenails..............B
Interdigital Glands......................B
Janitor .................................B
Kidney Packer..........................  B
Liver Packer.............................B
Mucosa...................................B
Presentation Visceria....................B
98
Remove Heart Fat........................B
Roller Hanger...........................B
Roller Magazine.........................B
Save Spleens............................B
Strapper in fancy meats.................B
Sharpies Helper.........................B
Spinal Sucker...........................B
Stacker.................................B
Stamper.................................B
Stick Hole Remover......................B
Stomach Cookers.........................B
Stomach Defatter......................  B
Stomach Inverter......................  B
Stomach Packer & Scaler.................B
Tank & Dehairer Operator................B
Toenail Clippers....................... B
Tongue and Trim Packer..................B
Trim Salava Glands......................B
Uteri, Pancreas, Chits Packer...........B
Casing Cutters......................  ..1
Cut Off Heads.........................  1
Fancy Hook Harvestor..................  1
Head Boners...........................  1
Head Clippers...........................1
Leaf Lard Pullers.......................1
Leaf Lard Scrapers......................1
Pancreas................................1
Pizzle Cords ...........................1
Pop Kidneys.............................1
Remove Ears.............................1
Remove Kidneys..........................1
Remove Snouts...........................1
99
Save Chitterlings.......................1
Save Colons.............................1
Save Inner Ears.........................1
Scanner...............................  1
Shacklers.............................  1
Sharpies helper.......................  1
Snout Trimmer.........................  1
Spike Heads...........................  1
Stomach Openers.........................1
Tongue Trimmer..........................1
Trimming Contaminated Offal.............1
Uteri Saver.............................1
Bung Guns...........................  1.5
Pull & Hang Plucks....................1.5
Trucker............................. .1.5
Mesh Glove Room / Laundry.............  2
Blood Man...............................2
Knife Room............................  2
Scaler (Fancy Meats)....................2
Casing Operator.........................3
Cut Gam Cords...........................3
Detector................................3
Gam Hogs..............................  3
Grey Gutters............................3
Hang Hogs...............................3
Mark Jowls / Drop Heads.................3
Night Cleaner...........................3
Open Bellies.........................   3
Open Brisket Knife......................3
Open Brisket Saw........................3
Red Gutters....................... .....3
Remove Tongues..........................3
100
Sawyers...............................  3
Scalers.................................3
Sharpies Cleaner........................3
Stickers................................3
Held rail / Vet rail / Inspectors / Trimmers.3.5
Sharpies Dayshift (setup).............3.5
Leadhands...............................4
Trainers................................4
Shipping
Reach Operator...........................
Relief Shipper..........................3.
Shipper.................................3.
Inventory Control Person.............,..3.
Trainers.................................
Maintenance
Maintenance Helper .....................3
Utility Maintenance ....................3
Parts Person..........................3.5
Trainers.............................   4
Waste Water A...........................4
Waste Water B (after 6 months)..........5
Maintenance Helper (Advanced)...........5
Millwright - Second Class...............5
Tinsmith..............................  5
Power Jack & Small Equipment Repair....7
Hydraulic technician....................8
Electrical Tech. Engineer..............10
Steam Power Engineer - class 2.........11
101
CO LO LO to Tt
The following jobs are now regrouped as follows:
Groups	Jobs
1	Journeyman Power Engineer Class 2, Refrigeration mechanic
2	Journeyman Power Engineer Class 3
3	Ticketed: Electrician, Millwright, Welder, Refrigeration operator
4	I.T.
The above mentioned maintenance groups shall be adjusted as per the Maintenance Wage Survey, which shall be completed within thirty (30) days from the ratification of the collective agreement.
For each of the above mentioned groups, the Lead Hand will earn 200/hr above the respective set rate.
Pork Cut
Apply Labels...........................  B
Bag Backribs...........................  B
Bag Boneless Loins.......................B
Bag Sirloin..............................B
Belly Bagger.............................B
Boneless Leg Bagger......................B
Box Chute Operator...................... B
Box Room Pallet Puller...................B
Box Stacker..............................B
102
Box Tower................................B
Boxing Butts CPLA Chilled................B
Check Backfat............................B
Clean Floors.............................B
Cut Backrib Tails........................B
Feed Loin Boning Line..................  B
Feed Shoulder Fat Skinner................B
Fill Combo Ham...........................B
Flatten Bellies in Combo.................B
Garbage..................................B
GSP Checker..........;..................B
GSP Packer & Stacker.....................B
GSP Scaler.............................  B
GSP Stuffer..............................B
Guide Hogs...............................B
Loin Bagger..............................B
Loin Chute.............................  B
Loin Loader..............................B
Make Combos..............................B
Metal Detector Checker...................B
Monitoring Bone Tote.....................B
Move / Dump Barrels....................  B
Pack & Scale Back Skin...................B
Pack & Scale Backfat...................  B
Pack & Scale Backribs..................  B
Pack & Scale Bellies.....................B
Pack & Scale Belly Trim..................B
Pack & Scale Bone In Loin..............  B
Pack & Scale Boneless Product............B
Pack & Scale Brisket.....................B
Pack & Scale Jowls...............:......B
Pack & Scale Picnic......................B
103
Pack & Scale Shoulder Fat................B
Pack & Scale Side Ribs...................B
Pack & Scale Special Orders..............B
Pack & Scan Belly......................  B
Pack & Scan Butts........................B
Pack & Scan Legs.........................B
Pack & Scan Picnic.......................B
Pack & Sort Belly Skin...................B
Pack Back Skin.......................... B
Pack Backbones.......................    B
Pack Backribs............................B
Pack Scale & Scan Tails..................B
Pack Scale & Scan Trim...................B
Packer / Dumper..........................B
Packer Femur & Shank.....................B
Packing Station......................    B
Picnic Bagger............................B
Place Sirloin............................B
Placing Loins............................B
Remove Sharp Bone in Side Ribs...........B
Rework Airbags.........................  B
Roller Person........................    B
Scan Backfat & Skin......................B
Select Hind Feet.........................B
Side Rib Bagger..........................B
Side Rib Loader..........................B
Straighten Bellies.......................B
Straighten Loins.........................B
Transfer Hams..........................  B
Trim Shoulder Fat.....................   B
Wash Cutting Boards......................B
Weigh Tenderloins........................B
104
Wrap Belly............................  B
Wrap Butts / Candy Wrap.................B
Wrap Loins..............................B
Wrap/Bag Tenderloins....................B
Baby Backrib Saw........................ 1
Band Saw Operator - Femur Bones.........1
Belly Saw................................1
Box Machine.............................1
Clean & Peel Tenderloin.................1
Clean Channels.........................1
Cut Off Tails...........................1
Feed Butt Puller......................  1
Front Foot Saw..........................1
GSP Operator........................... 1
Hind Foot Saw...........................1
Hock Saw................................1
Jack Driver Packer & Dumper...........  1
MDM Helper..............................1
Middle Saw..............................1
Place Loins............................ 1
Remove Belly Flank......................1
Remove Jowls............................1
Shoulder Dunseth......................  1
Side Rib Saw............................1
Square Bellies..........................1
Square Ribs...........................  1
Trim Bellies............................1
Trim Ham Skin...........................1
Trim Jowls..............................1
Trim Shank ............................ 1
Wizzard Knife Bellies.................  1
Wizzard Knife Hams......................1
105
Wizzard Knife Side Ribs.................1
Wizzard Knives Backfat..................1
Wizzard Picnic Skin.....................1
Cryovac Operator - Bellies/Ribs.......1.5
Remove Riblets........................1.5
Blade Meat Trimmer.....................2
Centre Cut Saw..........................2
Combo Trucker / Scaler..................2
Ham Dunseth.............................2
Ham Skinner.............................2
Ham Trimmer...........................—.2
Knife Room............................  2
Loin Puller.............................2
Picnic Skinner..........................2
Remove Tenderloins......................2
Specialty Belly Selector................2
Specialty Final Check...................2
Trim Butts............................  2
Trim Picnic...........................  2
Trucker (export)........................2
Wizzard Knife Loins...................  2
Loin Trimmers (Boneless)..............2.5
Loin Trimmers (Bone In).............  2.5
Band Saw Split Shoulder.................3
Belly Rib Gun...........................3
Bone Buckeyes.......................... 3
Bone Crusher............................3
Butt Boner............................. 3
Ham Boner.............................  3
Loin Boner..............................3
MDM Operator............................3
Neckbone Lifter.........................3
106
Picnic Boner.................................3
Product Grader.....,..,......................3
Receiver.....................................3
Remove Belly Brisket.........................3
Rib Bellies..................................3
Lead Hand....................................4
Trainers.....................................4
Note: Pork Cut / Shipping Set Up job posting is eliminated. The current incumbents will be grandfathered and will therefore continue to be paid at their current rate, plus annual increases, for as long as they hold this posting. Otherwise they will be paid the applicable rate.
Cooler
Guide / Push Hogs......................B
R-Hogs............................     B
Clean Rails..........................  B
Check Trimmers.........................1
Roller / Wash Bay Attendant............1
Trainers.............................  4
Pack Off
Palletizer.........................    B
Wrapper................................B
Scanner................................1
Jack Operator....................... 1.5
Combo Scale / Forklift.................2
Computer Scale........................ 2
Reach Operator.....................    2
107
Rework...............................2.5
Battery Room Operator..................3
Trainers .........................  ...4
A new position will be created called, “Relief Shipper”. This will be a posted bid job. Persons wishing to use their seniority to bid to this position will have six weeks to qualify. Once qualified, these positions will be covering vacancies in the shipping department created by WCB, STD, LTD and Vacation. This position will cover vacancies on all shifts. The rate of pay will be level 3.5 and eligible premiums (shift, freezer where applicable). If at any time manning requirements do not require the skills and labour of above mentioned employees they will return to their previous departments (Pork Cut, Kill Floor etc).
UTILITY BONERS
The parties have agreed to eliminate the Utility Boners’ position. The current incumbents will be grandfathered and will therefore continue to be paid at their current rate, plus annual increases, for as long as they hold this posting. Otherwise they will be paid the applicable rate.
108
UTILITY MAINTENANCE
Within one (1) month from the date of ratification of this agreement, the Company will post a position of general maintenance labourer at level 3 for the following purposes:
-	painting;
-	general cleaningfinside and outside)
-	caulking;
-	general maintenance work requiring no specific qualifications
Minimum skills in maintenance will be required from the employee retained for that position.
If there is no sufficient work within a week to complete 40 hours, the Company may assign the employee to other duties, including production.
109
APPENDIX B
RATE OF PAY
The wage rate for a job will be determined by the job level into which the job falls as set out above in Appendix A. The hourly rate for each job level shall be:
	Actual Rate	Ratification . (freeze)	Jan. 31 2012 (0.30*)	Jan. 31 2013 (0.20*)	Jan. 31 2014 .(0.200)	Jan. 31 2015 (0.40*)
Base rate	14.75	14.75	15.05	15.25	15.45	15.B5
Level 1	15.75	15.75	16.05	16-25	16.45	16.85
Level 1.5	16.75	16.75	17.05	17.25	17.45	17.85
Level 2	17.75	17.75	18.05	13.25	18.45	18.65
Level 2.5	18.25	18.25	18.55	18.75	18.95	19.35
Level 3	18.75	18.75	19.05	19.25	19.45	19.65
Level 3.5	19.25	19.25	19.55	19.75	19.95	20.35
Level 4	19.75	19.75	20.05	20.25	20.45	20.85
Level 5	24.25	24.25	24.55	24.75	24.95	25.35
Level 6	25.20	. 25.20	25.50	25.70	25.90	26.30
Level 7	26.10	26.10	26.40	26.60	26.80	27.20
Level 8	26.60	As per Chart Outline Below				
Level 9	27.60	As per Chart Outline Below				
Level 10	26.39	As per Chari Outline Below				
Level 11	33.00	As per Chart Outline Below				
Hiring Rate	12.75	12.75	13.05	13.25	13.45	13.85
After 60 worked days	13.00	13.00	13.30	13.50	13.70	14.10
After 4 months			13.65	13.85	14.05	14.45
After 8 months	13.09	13.09	14.35	14.55	14.75	15.15
After 2080 hours worked	14.75	14.75	15.05	15.25	15.45	15.85
As per agreement between Olymel and the Union, the maintenance jobs shown in the groups below are affected by the respective
110
rates shown, following the results of the wage survey.
Groups	Jobs	Rate
1	Journeyman Power Engineer Class 2, Refrigeration mechanic	39.90
2	Journeyman Power Engineer Class 3	32.43
3	Ticketed: Electrician, Millwright, Welder, Refrigeration operator	34.38
4	I.T.	35.17
An employee with less than twenty four (24) months of service who works on a higher level job than the base rate, will receive his wage rate as per the above progression schedule plus the difference between the wage rate level of the job to which he is assigned and the base rate.
In the event that it should become necessary to increase the above mentioned hiring and progression rate during the term of the Collective Agreement, the Company and the Union will meet and discuss the matter.
111
Annual Bonus: One hundred dollars ($100) per year of service to be paid at the date of
ratification; one hundred dollars ($100) per year of service to be paid no later than December 15, 2011, December 15, 2012, December 15, 2013, December 15, 2014 and December 15, 2015. (one hundred dollars ($100.00) for employees between hiring day and 1 year of service, and one hundred and fifty ($150.00) for employees between 1 year and 2 years of service.
Bonus applies only to employees hired prior to ratification date for all years of eligibility.
As agreed by both parties Maintenance Trades persons will be hired at Base rate plus job level. In agreement with this all Trades persons in the progression will be moved to the Base rate plus job level.
112
APPENDIX C
LEAD HAND AND TRAINERS
The Company agrees to post lead hand and trainer job openings for informational purposes only. Interested persons may apply for such openings and the job will be awarded by mutual agreement between the Company and a designated Union Official. The Company and the Union will develop and implement a selection process to ensure the most qualified candidate meeting the agreed criteria is chosen. However, if the parties cannot mutually agree within seventy-two (72) hours after the Union has been informed of an individual selection for a lead hand and trainer position, the Company will retain the right to place its selection into the lead hand and trainer position.
The Union reserves its right to challenge the selection based on the chosen criteria.
Once an employee has been chosen and gone through the qualifying period, the Company will, from time to time, evaluate the performance of a lead hand and trainer.
If the performance of the employee does not meet the required standards, the employee will be given a ninety (90) days period to im-
113
prove and correct the situation. Within that ninety (90) days period, the Company will review the situation with the employee every thirty (30) days. At the end of the ninety (90) days period the employee will be taken off the job if he still does not meet the required standards.
In no circumstances shall a lead hand hire, layoff, suspend, discharge, exercise other discipline, transfer employees to other departments, or reduce hours.
The lead hand shall coordinate the work and assist in training, familiarization and safety.
Lead hands shall be paid the greater of job level 4 or twenty cents (0.200) per hour above the highest job class rate of pay in his designated area.
Trainers are not assigned to a specific production area and they will report to training foreman.
114
APPENDIX D
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
EMPLOYEE’S DOCUMENTATION - SICK LEAVE OR WCB
When an employee’s documentation has lapsed (sick leave or WCB), the Company will attempt to make contact with the employee. If unable to contact the offending employee, the Union will be notified.
The notification of the Union will be delivered in person to any Union representative. The identity of the Union representative and the date and time of the notification will be initialled by that representative.
Failure to provide documentation or contact the Company to give information would then lead to the imposition of discipline which would occur twenty-four (24) hours after the time the Steward was provided the “in-person” notice referred to above; subsequent incidents will occur with each succeeding twenty-four (24) hours period: i.e.
*	a verbal warning twenty-four (24) hours after the in-person notification;
•	a written warning forty-eight (48) hours after that in-person notifica-
115
tion;
•	a one (1) day suspension seventy-two (72) hours after the in-person notification;
•	a five (5) days suspension ninety-six (96) hours after the in-person notification;
•	termination one hundred twenty (120) hours after the in-person notification.
Each twenty-four (24) hours period referred to above will be calculated with respect to work days only: i.e. twenty-four (24) hours period covering work days only and excluding non-work days like weekends and statutory holidays.
116
APPENDIX E
MAINTENANCE APPRENTICESHIP
PROGRAM
1.	Employees who have signed contracts under the Alberta Career Development and Employment Apprenticeship and Trade Certification program are eligible to participate in this program.
2.	This program applies only to the following trades: millwright, electrician, welder, steam engineer, refrigeration and any others which the Union and Management decides are needed.
3.	Employees participating in this program will not be required to work while attending training school.
4.	Six (6) employees staggered in time and areas from the plant may participate in the program at any one time with the exception of millwrights, which can be 2. Two (2) positions will be reserved for a first year students, seniority will be the determining factor for first year students.
5.	An individual participant’s who fails to successfully complete the first year
117
of the program or fails to participate in the following progressive years of the program can be returned to production and will have to bid on a new posting for the apprenticeship to be able to continue his training program. Each situation will be looked at individually.
6.	After successfully completing each year’s requirements of the four- year program, the individual employee will receive an hourly wage increase equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the difference between their current level of pay and the top level of maintenance pay. Upon proof of registration each year, the Company will reimburse fifty per cent (50%) of the cost of schooling and will reimburse the other fifty per cent (50%) at the end of the year, if successfully completed.
7.	Participating employees agree to follow the requirements and rules of the Alberta Career Development and Employment Apprenticeship and Trade Certification program.
8.	Excused leave must be in requested in writing in advance and will be
118
granted for the full duration of the
training.
9.	A fulltime union representative and a management person will meet periodically to deal with the apprenticeship program, including:
A)	Employees already holding journeyman certificate, are not eligible to apply on a posting for apprenticeship program
B)	Leave of absence will not be granted for the period of May to the end of August. Leave of absence will be granted if it does not unreasonably affect the operations of the Company.
119
APPENDIX F
MODIFIED DUTY PLACEMENT ARTICLE 12:14
The company and the Union agree that there will usually be no more than 2 jobs at any one time, on a modified duty placement sheet, this will facilitate the process of recovery by allowing the follow up of the placement to insure the quickest recovery possible and to identify problem placements if the recovery is not proceeding.
120
APPENDIX G
FOREIGN WORKER’S PROGRAM and ENGLISH AS A SECOND LANGUAGE UNDER THE PROVINCIAL NOMINEE PROGRAM
As per our agreement the Union and the Company will supervise the E.S.L. instructors to set up, implement, and continue with AINP.
-	The Union Training Center will be used whenever possible to provide initial orientation and training here. Although at times it may not be possible.
-	The Company will be responsible for the payment of wages, benefits and any other costs associated with running these educational seminars.
-	The education material will be provided by the Company at the Company’s cost.
-	The issue of transportation will be mutually agreed to and will be at the Company’s expense.
-	The Company shall provide, at their
121
cost, the educational facilities needed outside of the UFCW local 1118 Training Room for when the training room is not available.
The scheduling of instructional time will be in accordance to the Collective Agreement. Any other issues not addressed will be negotiated and agreed to.
122
APPENDIX H
FOREIGN RECRUITMENT INITIATIVE
The following represents an understanding reached between Olymel and United Food and Commercial Workers 1118 as it relates to foreign recruitment initiative. There will be no new foreign recruitment unless specifically agreed to in writing by the union.
1.	In order for the Company to continue operations effectively, Olymel S.E.C./L.P. is committed to build on its’ International recruitment success through employment of Temporary Foreign Workers (TFW) as a supplement to domestic hiring. Immigrant recruitment is one of our key organizational staffing strategies which will continue to play a part of our Red Deer staffing plans for the foreseeable future, and includes providing opportunities for foreign workers to retain their employment through Alberta immigrant Nominee Program (AINP).
2.	Housing will be arranged and have access to public transportation. The lease of no longer than four (4) months will be in the company’s name, and following that, Olymel will pay the rent to the property company
123
and deduct the rent from the cheque of the employee bi-weekly. The housing will be fully furnished. At the end of the four (4) months lease, affected workers will have the opportunity to renew the lease, or go their separate ways. The rent per individual will fall within government guidelines. Rent includes utilities with the exceptions of cable and telephone.
3.	UFCW will provide an English program if required, ensuring that it complies with the requirements of the Alberta Immigrant Nominee program (AINP). Compensation for the training will be arranged between the parties.
4.	Issues will be addressed between the Company and the Union.
5.	In all cases, the Company will provide return transportation to the country of origin. As agreed, in making such arrangements in writing with the returning foreign worker, the Company will give a thirty (30) days notice from the date of this letter to reply in regards to such arrangements. If the Company has not heard back from such foreign worker by the expiry of the thirty (30) days notice, the Company will no longer be responsible for the return flight to the worker’s home
124
country.
6.	The Company will make arrangement with a local physician to ensure health care is accessible. If medical attention is required prior to receiving the Alberta Health Care cards, the physician can bill the Company. The Company will then seek reimbursement from Alberta Health Care.
7.	The Company will ensure that information is presented and explained in reference to all deductions (Taxes, CPP, El, Union Dues, etc.) and rates of pay, progression prior to the employment contract being signed by the worker.
8.	Olymel will put forth all candidates for entrance into the AINP or equivalent as soon as possible but no later than 8 months after arrival. The immigration and landed citizen requirements will be explained to them and their relatives and/or dependants.
9.	If either the government stops the Temporary Foreign Worker Program, or changes the program to stop the landed citizen immigration status or if the unemployment rate increases by two percentage points or more the program will be open for review, with the understanding that it is to supple-
125
merit domestic hiring not replace it.
10.	Our recruiting effort is aimed at having all workers who are hired have the suitability and criteria of the AINP in mind.
11.	This letter in enforceable through the Collective Agreement and is incorporated onto it.
12.	It is clearly understood and agreed that all workers must have a vested interest in the plant.
13.	Any worker in the AINP program who is terminated will not have notice of termination sent to government officials or consulates until after 3rd step grievance meeting has been concluded.
126
APPENDIX I
MAINTENANCE WAGE SURVEY
In order to establish rates of pay for the Maintenance Ticketed Journeymen (Groups 1, 2, 3 and 4 as proposed), the Company and the union will perform an annual maintenance wage survey of approximately 10 relevant labour market competitors. The purpose of the survey is to ensure that Maintenance Ticketed Journeymen employed, are competitively paid so that the Olymel Red Deer plant attracts and retains its skilled maintenance workforce. It is understood that the companies used may change from year-to-year to ensure the relevant labour market is considered.
The following criteria will be used to select which Companies to survey:
i)	Preferably, unionized Companies in food Industries that are in direct competition for skilled trades within Alberta.
ii)	The Company must be able to reasonably verify and validate the wage information:
127
iii)	The selection of the companies should not be used for the purpose of manipulating the outcome of the survey;
iv)	The companies surveyed should employ certified skilled trades, performing work consistent with that certification;
The positions of the required licensed skilled trades, as determined by the Company will be benchmarked at each of the identified companies surveyed. The highest and the lowest rates will be removed, and the remaining rates will be averaged. If this average is more than 3 % above the Olymel rate for the same position, then the Olymel rate will be adjusted to this average.
In order to continue receiving the benefit of the Maintenance Wage Survey, the respective employees must commit to upgrading their skills to ensure they are working toward proper certification in the jobs they are performing.
This survey will be completed within thirty (30 days) of the ratification of the collective agreement and thereafter on January 15th of each year, with any required adjustments effective the first pay period in February of that
128
year. It is understood that the general wage increase or the result of the survey, which ever the greater is, shall apply.
These amendments shall be incorporated into the Collective Agreement between the above parties.
129
APPENDIX J
SUSPENSIONS
A change has been implemented on March 19, 2007, for the application of suspensions of 1 day or more. Under the old application an employee would receive a suspension at a certain time of day and return to work at the same time the following day.
Under the new application, an employee receiving a 1 day suspension will have the remainder of that day applied as the 1 day suspension and will return the following day at the employee’s regular start time. The 1 day suspension will go on disciplinary record as a 1 day suspension.
For suspensions longer than 1 day, the first day of suspension will be the remainder of that day with the employee returning at their normal start time at the end of that particular amount of time.
130
Example; 1 day
Suspension at 09:30 - return to work: 06:00 (regular start time)
Example: 3 days
Suspension at 09:30 - return to work: remainder of 1st day and
2 full days returning
regular start time
131
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
The company and the Union will review and investigate alternate shifts and hours of work to maximize the plant.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
Romantic relationships policy
The Company recognizes that working relationships can sometimes turn into personal romantic relationships. Without trying to dictate its employees’ private life, the Company has the responsibility to ensure that such relationships shall not affect the working environment and that every employee shall be treated equally and with moral integrity.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
Dignity and respect
The Company agrees that their Representatives will treat every employee with dignity and respect.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
It is understood that the current practice regarding suspensions for employees on alternate shifts shall prevail.
132
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5
The Union will agree for Cameras being installed to investigate instances of Sabotage. These Cameras will only be used for this purpose and no other. If the Cameras are used for any other purpose anything arising out of this other purpose will be null and void. The Union will be granted access to the information gathered on demand. Olymel will also provide the location of all cameras to UFCW 1118.
133
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #6
Maintenance helper advanced
HOW TO ACHIEVE MAINTENANCE HELPER ADVANCED FROM MAINTENANCE HELPER
This helper will be evaluated after the first six months and every six months thereafter. After the first evaluation the helper may be further evaluated at the request of employee or his supervisor at any time.
The shop steward will be present during explanation of evaluations. We look for the following qualities in this position:
-	self starting, highly motivated individual;
-	capable of meeting the challenges which come up in the routine maintenance of the plant.
-	also, able to work without supervision quickly and conscientiously.
In the event that it is felt after evaluations that maintenance helper would not be able to achieve maintenance helper advances, this helper would be told by the supervisor so that he may choose other goals.
134
OTHER CURRENT LETTERS OF
UNDERSTANDING
Renew all current letters of understanding.
135