UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL - CIO - CLC
Local 1518 #700 - 4211 Kingsway, BURNABY, B.C.
V5H1Z6
AND
INTERCONTINENTALPACKERS LIMITED 9060 8haughneesy street Vancouver, B.C.
V6P6E1
TERM8 OF AGREEMENT June 1,1994-May 31,1997
Od'3t5oCOS)
INDEX
ARTICLE
PREAMBLE............................
PURPOSE.............................1
RECOGNITION.........................2
BARGAINING UNIT.....................3
MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP...........4
GENDER..............................5
MANAGEMENT..........................6
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.................7
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE.................7-1 -A
ELECTION OF STEWARDS................7-1-B
GRIEVANCE ON COMPANY TIME...........7-1 -C
STEWARDS SECURE PERMISSION TO •
LEAVE DEPARTMENT..............7-1-D
PROMPT SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCE..7-1 - E
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE,
FIRST TO SECOND STEPS.........7-2-A
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE,
TO THIRD TO FOURTH STEPS......7-2-A-B
ELIMI NATION OF THIRD STEP......7-2-C
PRESENCE OF AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEE(S) ...,7-2-D
GRIEVANCE SUBMITTED IN WRITING..7-2-E
WORKING DAYS AS RELATED TO
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE...........7-2-F
RETROACTIVE PAY ON GRIEVANCES...7-3
DISCIPLINE AND DISMISSAL........7-4-A
DISCIPLINE AND DISMISSAL........7-4-B
WARNINGS FOR MINOR OFFENCES.....7-4-C
FINALITY OF DECISIONS...........7-5
NO CESSATION OF WORK............7-6-A
SLOWDOWNS.......................7-6-B
TRANSFER OF STEWARDS............7-7
PERFORMANCEOF DUTY DURING
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE...........7-8
SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE.........7-9
PAY FOR DISCIPLINE MEETINGAT NIGHT.7-10
PAGE
1
1
1
2
3
4 4 4 4
4
5
5
5
5
6 7 7
7
8 8 8 8 9 9 9 9
10
10
10
10
WAGES................................8
STARTING RATE....................8-2-A
MAINTENANCE PROGRESSION..........8-2-B
RATE AND JOB CLASSIFICATION......8-2-C
COMPOSITE FATES..................8-3
TEMPORARY RATES..................8-4
GANG LEADERS.....................8-5
INSTRUCTIONOR ASSISTANCE
IN TRAINING...................8-6
TRANSFER TO LOWER RATED JOB......8-7-A-B
SHIFT PREMIUM....................8-8
METHOD OF PAYING EMPLOYEES.......8-9
INJURIES.........................8-10
HOURS OF WORK........................9
COMPANY RIGHTTO SCHEDULE SHIFTS...9-1-A-l
SWING SHIFTS BY MUTUAL
AGREEMENT ONLY................9-1-A-ll
SHIFT SCHEDULING FOR EFFICIENCY..9-1-A-lll
OVERTIME PROCEDURE...............9-1-B
OVERTIME RATES...................9-1-C
UNION CO-OPERATION ON OVERTIME...9-1-D
OVERTIME TO BE VOLUNTARY.........9-1-E
OVERTIME FOR DAY WORKERS.........9-2
WEEKLY HOURS OF WORK AND
DEFINITION OF A DAY...........9-3-A
DAILY AND WEEKLY SHORTAGE OF WORK....9-3-B
SATURDAY OVERTIME................9-4-A
SUNDAY OVERTIME..................9-4-B
RRST AND SECOND DAY OFF..........9-4-C
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS...............9-5-A
REGULAR SHIFT ENGINEERS
CLARIFICATION FOR OFFSHIFTS...9-5-B
ABSENCE DURING RECOGNIZED
PAID HOLIDAY..................9-5-C
LEAVE OF ABSENCE ON
RECOGNIZED PAID HOLIDAY.......9-5-D
10
11
11
11
11
12
12
13
13
13
14 14 14
14
15 15
15
16 16 16 16
16
17
17
17
17
17
21
22
22
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
DURING VACATIONS...............9-6
DAILY GUARANTEES.................9-7
EMERGENCY CALL IN................9-8
MEAL ALLOWANCE...................9-9
EXCEPTION ON MEAL ALLOWANCE......9-10-A
BREAKFAST MEALS..................9-10-B
NOTICE OF CHANGE OF SHIFT........9-11 -A-B-C
KNIFE SHARPENING TIME............9-12-A
EQUIPMENTSUPPLIED................9-12-B
REST PERIODS.....................9-13
TIME OFF.........................9-14
37 HOUR GUARANTEE....................10
WEEKLY GUARANTEE.................10-1
EXCEPTIONS, DAY WORKERS..........10-1 -A
EXCEPTIONS, ABSENTEES............10-1 -B
EXCEPTIONS, EXCUSEDABSENCE.......10-1 -C
EXCEPTIONS, NEW HIRING...........10-1-D
EXCEPTIONS, LAY-OFF NOTICE.......10-1-E
AVOIDING GUARANTEED TIME PENALTY.10-1-F
GUARANTEED PAY...................10-1-G
GUARANTEE IN HOLIDAY WEEKS.......10-1-H
HIRING PART TIME WORKERS.........10-1-1
SENIORITY........................11
SENIORITY DEFINED................11-1
PROBATIONARY PERIOD..............11-2
SENIORITY LISTS..................11-3
PROMOTIONS AND VACANCIES.........11 -4-A
JOB POSTINGS.....................11-4-B
JOB POSTINGS
MECHANICAL PROGRESSION.........11 -4-C
LOSS OF SENIORITY................11-5
VOLUNTARY LEAVES OR
DISMISSED FOR CAUSE............11-5-A
FAILURE TO REPORT ON RECALL......11-5-B
ALLOWABLE TIME OFF PAYROLL.......11 -5-C
23
23
23
24 24
24
25
26 26 26 26 26 26 27 27 27 27 27
27
28 28 28 29
29
30 30
30
31
32 32
32
32
32
ABSENCE DUE TO SICKNESS OR ACCIDENT LAY-OFF PROCEDURE RE-CALL PROCEDURE LAY-OFF EMERGENCY TEMPORARY RE-CALL REDUCTION OF STAFF BY SHIFTS PROCEDURE ON
TRANSFERRING EMPLOYEES.........11-
ELECTION ON LAY-OFF..............11-
PROVISION FOR COMPANY TRAINEES...11-
ADDRESS CHANGE...................11-
PREGNANCY LEAVE..................11-
PARENTAL LEAVE...................11-
VACATIONS.............................12
LENGTH OF VACATION...............12-
CALCULATION OF HOLIDAY PAY.......12-
ELIGIBILITY FOR FIRST VACATION...12-
VACATION CREDIT FOR SICKNESS.....12-
VACATION PAY IN ADVANCE..........12-
VACATION SEASON..................12-
UNUSED VACATION CREDITS..........12-
BANKING OF VACATION..............12-
SAFETY AND HEALTH.....................13
FIRST AID AND PROTECTIVE DEVICES.13-
USE OF SAFETY EQUIPMENT..........13-
SAFETY COMMITTEE.................13-
PROVISIONS FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH.13-
GENERAL...............................14
CLOTHES CHANGING TIME............14-
LAUNDRY SERVICE..................14-
UNION BULLETIN BOARD.............14-
PRIVILEGESAND BENEFITS...........14-
POWERHOUSE STAFF TO
REMAIN DURING WORK STOPPAGE....14-
JURY DUTY........................14-
LICENSE RENEWAL..................14-
1-A
1-B
■2
3-A-B
■4
-5-A-B-C
6
7
■1
■2
•3
■4
■1
•2
■3
■4
33
33
34
34
35 35
37
37
37
38
38
39
40 40 40
40
41 41
41
42
42
43 43 43
43
44 44 44 44 44
44
45 45 45
TIME OFF FOR FUNERALS.............14-8
COMPANY SUPPLIED CLOTHI NG........14-9-A
PURCHASE OF QUILTED VEST..........14-9-B
PURCHASE OF SAFETY FOOTWEAR.......14-9-C-D
MECHANICALTOOL REPLACEMENT........14-10
TARDINESS AND ABSENCE.............14-11
NO DISCRIMINATION.................14-12
LEAVE OF ABSENCE..................14-13
HEARING TESTS.....................14-14-A-B
STAFF SALES.......................14-15
HEALTH AND WELFARE....................15
HEALTH AND ACCIDENT INSURANCE.....15-1
WEEKLY INDEMNITY SICK PAY PLAN
(DURING WCB CLAIMS)............15-2-A-B
DURATION OF PAYMENTS..............15-2-C-D
COMPANY PAY SICK PREMIUM..........15-2-E
MEDICARE AND HOSPITALIZATION......15-3
MAJOR MEDICAL.....................15-4
LIFE INSURANCE....................15-5
VISION CARE.......................15-6
DENTAL PLAN.......................15-7-A-B-C
HEARING AIDS......................15-8
LONG TERM DISABILITY..............15-9
ELIGIBILITY.......................15-10
ELIGIBILITY THROUGH DIRECTPAYMENT..15-10-A
CONTINUATION OF BENEFITS COVERAGE ....15-11
DURATION OF AGREEMENT.................16
APPENDIX..............................
PLANT CLOSING.
WORK METHODS..
CONTRACT OUT. i
RECOGNITIONOF LONG SERVICE........IV
EARLY RETIREMENT..................V
EARLY RETIREMENT BRIDGE BENEFIT...
45
46 46
46
47
48
49 49 49 49 49 49
49
51
51
52
52
53 53
53
54 54
54
55 55
57
57
61
62
63
64
65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING:
FREE COFFEE OR TEA..........
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING:
INFORMATION TO THE UNION....
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING:
ANNUAL VACATION.............
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT:
RETIREMENT PLAN DEATH BENEFITS. LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING:
LIGHT DUTY ASSIGNMENTS......
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING:
UNION RER VISITS............
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING:
SUBROGATION.................
CLOTHING LIST....................
BRACKETVALUES....................
JOB RATES........................
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
LONG TERM DISABILITY........
65
66
66
66
67
68
68
69
70
71
84
PREAMBLE
This Agreement entered into as of the 31st, day of October, 1994.
BETWEEN:
INTERCONTINENTAL PACKERS LIMITED 9050 Shaughnessy Street Vancouver, B.C. V6P 6E1
hereinafter called “The Company” or their successor
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL1518 Suite 700, 4211 Kingsway Burnaby, B. C. V5H 1Z6
or its successor affiliated with the A.F.L., CIO, And The Canadian Labour Congress, on behalf of the Local Union herein named:
herein called “The Union”
In consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree each with the other as follows:
■1-
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE
The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to define clearly hours of work, wages and conditions of employment to provide an amicable means of settling any differences which may arise. To promote the mutual interest of the Company and its employees and to provide for the operation of the plant under methods which will further to the fullest extend possible the safety and welfare of the employees, combined with the economy of operations, quality and quantity of output, cleanliness of the plant and the protection of property. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the responsibility of the Company and its employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency for all employees as set forth in Article 3 hereof with respect to wages, hours of work and terms and conditions of employment.
The Company will not bargain collectively with any other labour organization affecting employees in any Bargaining Unit.
ARTICLE 3 BARGAINING UNIT
The term employee as used in this Agreement shall be considered to include all employees of the Company with the following exceptions:
-2-
(a)	Executive officers, buyers and Salesmen
(b)	Office staff
(c)	Foremen
(d)	Security staff
(e)	Driver/Salesmen
ARTICLE 4
MAINTENANCEOF MEMBERSHIP
(a)	Every employee who Is now or hereafter becomes a member of the Union shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment, and every new employee whose employment commences shall, after the commencement of his employment, immediately apply for and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of his employment.
(b)	The Company agreesto deductfrom the wages of each employee, upon proper authorization from the employee affected, such initiation fees, unipn dues and assessments as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. The Company further agrees to automatically deduct union dues from the wages of all new employees. The employee shall, upon commencement of employment, provide the Company with a signed authorization for such deductions. Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurerof the Union not later than the tenth (10th) day of the following month, accompanied by a written statement of the name of each employee for whom deductions were made and the amount of each deduction. Dues check offs are to be submitted on a monthly or four week basis showing amount deducted each pay period, for what purpose, and the total
-3-
amount deducted during the month or four week period. The Companyagreesto showthe amount of union dues paid on employee T4 slips.
ARTICLE 5 GENDER
Except where specifically stated to the contrary, provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all employees in the Bargaining Unit. The use of the masculine gender shall be considered to include the feminine.
ARTICLE 6 MANAGEMENT
The management and operation of the business shall be vested solely in the management of the Company, provided that this right shall not be used to violate or avoid any terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 7
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.1	(a) A Grievance Committee, the number not to
exceed five who shall be regular employees of the Company, shall be elected by the Union in a manner determined by them, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of this committee. However, the Company will only be obligated under paragraph (c) to bear the cost cf three (3) of the Grievance Committee.
(b) Union stewards, the numberto be decided by the Union, shall be elected by the Union in a manner determined by them and the Company shall be kept informed by the Union of the personnel of the Union stewards.
-4-
(C)	All grievances shall be taken up on Company time during regular working hours. The Chief Steward may process and investigate any grievance at any step of the grievance procedure.
(d)	If a steward has to leave his job or department in connection with a grievance, he shall first secure permission from the Foreman before leaving the job or department. Such permission shall be granted as promptly as possible but shall in no case, exceed one (1) hour. He must report to the person in charge of department visited before contacting any employee in said department. If the elected Chief Steward's job is such that it seriously interferes with production he will be placed on another job comparable to his posted job.
	This will be by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
(e)	It is agreed that a desirable feature of the grievance procedure will be to settle all grievances promptly, and that consultation in any step of the following procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that friction or animosity will be reduced to a minimum.
7.2 (a)	The following procedure shall be applicable progressively to the adjustment of disputes or grievances:
	First Step: Between the Union steward, the employee and the foreman of the
	-5-
department in which the employee works. The decision must be rendered within two working days unless mutually agreed otherwise.
Second Step: Between the Union steward, the chief steward or his designated representative (not to exceed two) and the management committee. The decision must be rendered within two working days, unless mutually agreed otherwise.
Third Step: By the grievance committee of the Union, who shall take the matter up with the Management committee. In case of emergency a meeting can be called by either party. An outside representative of the Union may be called in if so desired. A decision to be rendered within three (3) working days unless mutually agreed otherwise. All grievances at this stage are to be in writing. If a violation of the contract is alleged the grievance must set out clearly the article, clause and paragraph allegedly violated. Should either parties intend to proceed to the Fourth Step, they must advise the other party in writing within five (5) working days of receipt of the decision unless mutually agreed otherwise. Both parties will then proceed as outlined in the Fourth Step.
(b) Fourth Step: Any disagreement, grievance or dispute arising under the Agreement which is not settled to the satisfaction of either the Union or the Company under the provisions cf this Article shall, upon written notice of either party, be submitted to an
-6-
Arbitration Board which shall be bound only by the terms of this Agreement. The Board shall consist of one member named by the Union, one member named by the Company, these members to be named within ten (10) working days of notice cf intention to proceed to arbitration by either party. The third member of the Board, who shall be the Chairman, will be agreed upon by the two nominees. In the event of failure to agree on the Chairman within ten (10) working days then he shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour of the Province of British Columbia. The person appointed by the Minister of Labour shall not be a Civil Servant and must be impartial.
Any expense incurred as a result of the appointment of Chairman shall be borne in equal shares by the Company and the Union.
Decisions of the Arbitration Board shall be determined by a majority of the members of the Board and such decision is final and binding on the parties hereto.
(c)	The third step may be eliminated where deemed desirable by both parties in the interest of an expeditious settlement.
(d)	The aggrieved employee or employees may be present or not, by mutual agreement between the Company and the Grievance Committee.
(e)	Grievances may be submitted in writing in any step of the grievance procedure should either party consider it desirable.
-7-
(9 Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory Holidays shall not be considered as “Working Days” wherever this phrase occurs in this Article.
7.3	When a grievance which involves an error in the proper earnings of an employee is subsequently settled and as a result of such settlement the wages of an employee are increased or adjusted, such increase or adjustment shall be made retroactive to the date on which the error in earnings was made. If the date cannot be established then the adjustment shall be effective the date the grievance was laid, or such other date as may be agreed upon.
7.4	(a) When the Company deems it necessary to
discipline an employee they shall have the union steward present, or his designated representative. If the employee or employees concerned feel they have been unjustly dealt with they shall grieve within three (3) working days. In the case of suspension or dismissal the union steward and chief steward or in their absence their designated representative shall be present. In the case of dismissal the procedure shall be as in 4 (b).
(b) If an employee is dismissed for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with he shall, within four (4) working days from receipt of notice of dismissal, notify the grievance committee who shall, within one(1) working day, notify the Company in writing. The dismissal shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the grievance procedure beginning with the third step. If
-8-
	subsequently it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he shall be reinstated in his former position and shall be paid for this period during which he has not worked as if he had not been dismissed, or granted such lesser compensation as seems fair under the circumstances.
(C)	Warnings for minor offenses shall be void after one (1) year and warnings for major offenses will be void after five (5) years. The above is subject to the right of the Union to grieve.
7.5 When settlement is reached at any stage of these proceedings such decision shall be final and binding. It is understood that no decision will be made unless representativesof the Local Union be present.	
7.6 (a)	NO CESSATION OF WORK: It is agreed there shall be no strike by or lockout of employees affected by this Agreement during the life of this Agreement, nor shall a lockout of or a strike vote by the employees be taken during the aforementioned period or during the course of negotiations with the Company for renewal or extension thereof until some form of conciliation procedure has been gone through.
(b)	SLOWDOWNS: It is agreed that the Union and its members individually and collectively will not, during the term of this agreement cause, permit or take part in any slowdown or other curtailment or restriction of production or interference with work in or about the Company's plants or premises.
	-9-
7.7	The Union steward shall be the last man to be transferred to departments other than his own providing the steward can adequately do the work which remains to be done in the department.
7.8	Pending settlement of any grievance, the employee shall faithfully perform such duties as are assigned him by his foreman or by a superintendent.
7.9	The Company must give the Local Union notice of the suspension, written warning or discharge of any employee, and the reasons, on the day such action is taken. The Company will provide the Union with confirmation in writing of any disciplinary action taken. Failure to do so within forty-eight (48) hours (two working days) of such action shall render the discipline null and void.
7.10	It is agreed that if the chief steward or vicepresident or their designated representative of the local attend a meeting with the Company concerning dismissal or suspension occurring on the night shift they will be paid a minimum of one (1) hour, or for the time actually spent at the regular hourly rate.
ARTICLE 8 WAGES
8.1	(a) Effective May 5, 1996, increase the base
rate by $ .25 per hour to $15,365 per hour.
(b) Effective December 1, 1996, increase the base rate by $ .20 per hourto $15,565 per hour.
■10-
8.2 (a)	Effective, date of ratification, all new production employees shall be paid a starting rate of $8.00 per hour. Automatic increases of 1/3 the difference between $8.00 per hour and the plant base rate shall be granted upon the completion of 260, 520, and 780 days of service. After 780 days of service, the base rate shall apply.
(b)	The starting rate for new employees hired as maintenance tradesmen or engineers with journeyman or equivalent status shall be the base rate. After completing a six (6) week qualifying period, the appropriate rate will be paid as set out in the job rates section.
(c)	Classification of jobs and wage rates presently used in the plant shall continue in force, subject to any amendments which may be agreed upon. Additions or changes to present wage schedules due to changes in plant operations or changes in work performed on a job shall be the subject of collective bargaining between the Company and the Union. Any new job rates agreed to shall be retroactive to the date on which the new job began.
8.3 Where any employee regularly performs two or more jobs a composite rate shall be established. In the determining of a composite rate, the two highest base rates shall be used. The highest rate shall be used at the actual time and the second highest rate for the remainder of the time worked. When an employee spends 50% or more of his time on a higher rated job then the highest base rate shall become the job rate.	
	-11-
8.4	When an employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job for more than one (1) hour he shall receive the higher rate while doing so, but if required temporarily to fill a lower rated job he shall retain his regular job rate. The employee mentioned above will not be required to be qualified.
A probationary employee shall receive the job rate for the work to which he is assigned when he becomes qualified, but such qualifying period shall not be longer than six (6)weeks.
8.5	A gang leader in charge of a section of a department not exceeding five (5)in number shall have his regular rate increased to five (5) cents above the highest regular job rate of the gang on which he is in charge. If his section is in excess of five (5) men he shall be paid ten (10) cents per hour above the highest regular job rate of the gang of which he is in charge. Gang leaders shall be appointed by the Plant Superintendent or his designated representative and the Union shall be notified five (5) working days prior to the effective date of the appointment, except in the case of a temporary appointment for such things as sickness, holidays, etc. The position of the gang leader may be terminated at any time by the Company or relinquished voluntarily by the incumbent. No gang leader shall hire, lay off, suspend, discharge, exercise other discipline or, except upon direction of a member of management, transfer employees to other departments or reduce hours. In the event the Department Foreman is absent, the Gang Leader for that department will be exempt from the overtime and transfer provisions as outlined in Article 9.1 (b), Hours of Work, and Article 11.9,
-12-
Seniority. For the purpose of this clause, “Absent” will be interpreted as being away from the operation of the department.
8.6	Instruction or assistance in training an employee may be given by any supervisory officer of the Company or by any employee designated by the plant superintendent or department foreman.
8.7	(a) If, due to lack of work, an employee is
transferred for a period of less than twelve (12) weeks to work where the job rate is lower, he shall retain his regular job rate while so doing, at the expiration of twelve (12) consecutive weeks the lower job rate shall prevail, and the employee shall cease to have any rights to return to his prior posted job unless on a new posting.
(b)	If an employee is transferred to a lower rated job on a job posting or at the employee's request, then the lower rate of pay shall apply immediately.
8.8	Each employee shall receive a shift premium of forty-five (45) cents per hour for all hours worked between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
An employee whose schedule calls for work to commence at any time other than between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. inclusive shall receive a shift premium of forty-five (45) cents per hour for all hours between 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. and for all hours in excess of his schedule hours occurring immediately after 8:00 a.m.
Effective June 1,1993, increase the shift premium to $ .50 per hour.
-13-
8.9	The Company shall provide each employee with an itemized calculation weekly of all earnings and deductions including holiday pay and other adjustment cheques. The Company agrees to distribute the pay on Thursday in the cafeteria during the morning rest period. Where a recognized paid holiday falls during the week, the Company will distribute the pay on Friday.
8.10	An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs if, as a result of such injury, he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department, but if such is not possible, then by a Company Representative, necessary transportation on day of injury will be provided by the Company.
ARTICLE 9
HOURS OF WORK
9.1	(a)	(i) The company shall have the right to
schedule hours of work and the schedule of hours may vary from department to department but shall not total more than forty (40) for any payroll week and must not exceed eight (8) hours per day. A departmental schedule of hours shall be posted in each department with copies of such given to the Chief Steward. When Management deems it necessary to change the schedule of a department, they will notify the Union prior to the change taking place.
■14-
(ii)	Schedule of hours referred to in section (i) shall be regular schedules providingfor regularsteadyshifts, not swing shifts. Swing shifts shall apply only by mutual agreement with the Union Committee and the Management.
(iii)	In compliance with section (ii) it is understood and agreed by both parties to this Agreement that the creation of steady shifts will not interfere with the efficiency of department or plant operations.
(b) Should the Company require overtime to be worked the Union Steward of the department concerned shall be notified. He shall in turn, canvass the employees as to their individual wishes. When either party feels it is desirable, he may be accompanied by the Department Foreman. The Union Steward of the department requiring the overtime will contact the Steward in the second or successive department and the Stewards will canvass the employees as to their individual wishes. Overtime shall rotate on the basis of senior qualified person in the department being given first opportunity through to junior qualified person in the department. When this rotation is completed, another rotation shall begin. If any qualified person is inadvertently missed, he shall be given the first opportunity the next time overtime is required. Where overtime on off shifts is required, the Company shall discuss the matter with the available Union Steward or
-15-
Assistant Chief or Chief Steward, and make the call-ins.
(c)	AD time worked before or after the above schedule of hours shall be paid for at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee’s regular rate of pay. If by necessity an hourly rated employee is required to work in excess of 13 continuous hours, he shall be paid double time for such additional hours or as per Provincial Legislation, whichever is the greater benefit to the Employee.
(d)	The Union agrees to co-operate with the management in getting necessary overtime work done.
(e)	The management agrees that overtime work shall be kept to a minimum. It is further agreed that overtime work shall be voluntary and that no employee shall be compelled to work overtime or shall be discriminated against for refusal to work overtime.
9-2 Regardless of the schedule of hours, regular day workers shall be paid time and one-half their regular hourly rate for all work performed after 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. Regular day workers are defined as those whose shift commences between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.
9.3	(a) Weekly hours shall be as reasonable as
practicable over the entire plant. For employees who work calendar Monday through calendar Friday, a day shall be the periodfrom12 midnighttoi2 midnight. For all other employees a day shall mean a
-16-
period of 24 consecutive hours starting with the commencement of their shift.
9.3	(b) When, due to a shortage of work in the
plant, it is necessary to send part of the employees in a department home with less than eight (8) and/or forty (40) hours, then senior employees, if they desire, may choose to go home with short hours, as long as the employees remaining are capable of adequately performing the work that remains to be done.
9.4	(a) Time and one-half the regular rate shall be
paid to employees for all hours worked on Saturday except where work regularly falls on Saturday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid time and one-half the regular hourly rate if he works on his day off in lieu of Saturday.
(b) Double the regular hourly rate shall be paid to all employees for work performed on Sunday except where the work regularly falls on Sunday, in which latter case the employee shall be paid double the regular hourly rate if he works on his day cff in lieu cf Sunday.
For the purpose of the two foregoing sections in this clause, an employee’s first day off shall be considered his Saturday, and his second day off his Sunday.
9.5	(a) Recognized Paid Holidays: Ten (10) paid
holidays shall be recognized paid holidays referred to herein shall read:
-17-
1994
New Years Day...........December31,1993
Good Friday..................April	1,1994
Victoria Day................May 23,1994
Canada Day....................July	1,1994
August Civic Holiday........August	1,	1994
Labour Day...............Septembers,	1994
Thanksgiving Day...........October	10,1994
Remembrance Day..........November11,	1994
ChristmasDay............December26,1994
Boxing Day..............December27,1994
1995
New Years Day..............January 2,1995
Good Friday...................April	14,1995
Victoria Day...................May	22,1995
Canada Day....................June	30,	1995
August Civic Holiday.........August	7,1995
Labour Day.............September,	1995
Thanksgiving Day...........October9,1995
Remembrance Day........November 10,1995
Christmas Day..........December25,	1995
Boxing Day.............December26,	1995
•18-
1996
New Years Day......
Good Friday........
Victoria Day.......
Canada Day.........
August Civic Holiday
Labour Day.........
Thanksgiving Day...
Remembrance Day....
Christmas Day......
Boxing Day.........
...January 2,1996
......April 5, 1996
......May 20, 1996
......July 1, 1996
...August 5, 1996
.September 2,1996 ....October 14, 1996 November11,1996 December25, 1996 December 26, 1996
1997
New Years Day................January 1, 1997
Good Friday..................March28,1997
Victoria Day...................May 19,1997
In addition to the Public Holidays set out in the above paid Holiday Schedule, Employee's shall be given one additional recognized paid Holiday. It is agreed that Easter Monday will be the additional paid Holiday for the Employees of Intercontinental Packers Limited, subject to the demands of the business. The Employees to be given that day off will be chosen at the discretion of the Company. Those Employees that are required to work Easter Monday, shall do so at regular wages. They will be given, at a later date, an individual paid holiday, in lieu of Easter Monday. This day will be given whenever possible with the wishes cf the Employee, subject to the demands of the business. Should the Company be required by Lawto observe any Holiday, otherthan those listed in the 10 paid Holiday Schedule, such Holiday shall replace the individual or Easter Monday Holiday.
-19-
To become eligible for the Easter Monday or Individual Holiday, new Employees must be actively employed priorto the Easter Monday and have completed their 60 day probationary period by June 30th of the calendar year.
Employees, with seniority, on lay-off when Easter Monday occurs, will still be eligible for an Individual Paid Holiday, provided they return to work within the calendar year that the lay-off occurs.
The Company shall pay to each employee who is not exempt from the weekly pay guarantee as set out in Article 10-1 (a) and who has earnings on the payroll in the calendar week in which the above recognized paid holidays occur, eight (8) hours pay at his regular hourly job rate. This clause will not apply to Shift Engineers and Temperature Men who are paid according to the following section entitled Regular Shift Engineers.
Regardless of the terms set out above, probationary employees shall not be entitled to payment for a recognized paid holiday unless they have worked prior to the recognized paid holiday.
Employees who work on the recognized paid holiday shall be paid at two (2) times his regular hourly rate for all hours worked on such recognized paid holidays.
In the case of a recognized paid holiday being moved to a day other than the calendar date, either through legislation or through agreement between the parties to this Collective Agreement, then the date to which the holiday is moved shall become the recognized paid holiday.
-20-
Regular Shift Engineers
The following shall apply only to Regular Shift Engineers and Temperature Man who are on a continuous shift covering a seven (7) day calendar week and are required to work five (5) shifts in a calendar week in which a recognized paid holiday occurs.
The Shift Engineers and Temperature Man referred to above shall be paid at two (2) times his regular hourlyjob rate for all hours worked on his scheduled shift that corresponds to the day on which the recognized paid holiday falls for a regular day shift employee, ie:. - One who works Monday through Friday.
These Regular Shift Engineers and Temperature Man shall be entitled to a day off to be taken at a later date coinciding wherever possible, with the wishes of the employee as long as the efficient operation cf the department is not interfered with.
Payment of eight (8) hours at his regular hourly job rate for the recognized paid holiday will be paid to him in the payroll week in which the day off is actually taken. All days off must be taken by the expiration date of this Collective Agreement. If any regular Shift Engineersand Temperature Man doesn’t receive his full quota cf days dF by the expiration cf this Collective Agreement, he shall be paid for any such recognized paid holidays he missed as though he worked them but the employee does not have the right to refuse days off that are offered to him by the Company. Cases of disagreement on this to be discussed by the Committee and the Management.
9.5	(b) For the purpose of clarification Employees
who work shifts other than Monday through Friday, the following shall apply:
■21
His first shift shall be considered his Monday, his second shift shall be considered his Tuesday, his third shift shall be considered his Wednesday, his fourth shift shall be considered his Thursday and his fifth shift shall be considered his Friday. His first day off shall be considered his Saturday and his second day off shall be considered his Sunday.
(c)	An employee who is absent for reason of sickness or compensable accident during the period in which a recognized paid holiday occurs, shall receive the difference between his compensation or sickness indemnity and his regular rate of pay for such recognized paid holidays as occur during such absence, with limitations as defined in the weekly indemnity plan. The adjustment will be made as soon as the necessary information is available to the Payroll Department. Any change in the limitations will be the subject of negotiations.
When a recognized paid holiday falls during a three (3) day sick pay waiting period of an employee eligible for weekly indemnity, he shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate of pay for each such holiday.
(d)	Accredited Union Delegateswho are absent on leave of absence to attend to official Union business, e.g. International, National, and Provincial Conventions, Contract Negotiations and Labour Movement meetings at which they are official delegates shall receive eight (8) hours pay at their
-22-
regular rate for statutory holidays which occur during such leave Of absence.
9.6	If a paid statutory hohday falls within the vacation period of the employee, the Company will allow the employee concerned an additional day off with pay., This additional day off to be taken in conjunction with the employee’s vacation, on either the last work day preceding his vacation or the first work day immediately following his vacation. In case of two (2) holidays being consecutively involved, these shall be taken as the last two (2) days immediately preceding his vacation or the first two (2) days immediately following his vacation or may be split, one (1) day immediately preceding and one (1) day immediately following his vacation. This is to be arranged in advance by mutual agreement between the foreman and the employee.
9.7	Employees when called for work shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay for that day at their regular job rate. Under this provision, workers shall not leave of their own accord when work is available. For days outside of an employee’s regular schedule and holidays he shall receive the guaranteed four (4) hours pay at the applicable over-time rate.
9.8	Any hourly rated employee who, after leaving the Company’s premises is specifically called in at any time outside his normal working hours shall be through when the emergency is over, but shall nevertheless be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the regular rate or for those hours he actually worked at the applicable premium rate, whichever is the greater.
-23-
9.9	Employees shall not be required, except in cases of emergency, to work more than five (5) hours without the first meal period, and more than five (5) hours without the second meal period, and more than five (5) hours without the third meal period. The employee must give a recognizable amount of work beyond five (5) hours to qualify for the second meal period and the employee must give the same amount of work beyond five (5) hours to qualify for the third meal period. The second and third meal shall be 1/2 hour on Company time and the meal shall be supplied free of charge by the Company. In case cf truck drivers and other employees working away from the plant a cash equivalent of six dollars ($6.00) will be added to his gross earnings for that fiscal week.
9.10	(a) Employees required to work more than five
(5) hours without a meal period shall be compensated at one and one-half times the hourly rate for all times worked in excess of five (5) hours until a meal period is granted. Employees engaged in continuous shift operations shall be exempt from this clause, but shall be entitled to a lunch period of thirty (30) minutes on Company time. In the event of an earlier than normal start the Company shall have the right to change the time of the meal period in order to avoid the double penalty.
(b) The Company agrees to provide a meal for employees brought in to work prior to their regular scheduled starting time, provided that they are called in a minimum of one and one half (1 1/2) hours before the regular starting time. Such meals to be eaten on Company time at regular rates.
-24-
9.11 (a)	Continuous shift operators shall be given forty-eight (48) hours notice of change of shift. Continuously shift operators shall have a minimum of twelve (12) hours off between scheduled shifts. Should his schedule call for less than twelve (12) hours off then he shall be compensated at double his regular hourly rate until the twelve (12) hours has been reached.
(b)	Single shift employees shall be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of change of shift.
(c)	If a shift is changed without sufficient notice, the employees will be paid one and one-half times his regular rate for all hours worked outside the previous schedule until the expiry of the required notice, and such hours shall be considered as scheduled hours at regular rates for the purpose of the guarantee as set out in article 10. If the employee is given 24 hours notice on a change of shift, the employee will assume the new shift and will be paid the premium applicable to that shift.
(d)	Definition of a shift for the purpose of Articles 9-11A 9-11B and 9-11C will be defined as follows:
	For Employees whose shift commences between:
	6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. shall be called day shift. 9:05 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. shall be called afternoon shift.
	-25-
6:05 p.m. and 5.55 a.m. shall be called night shift.
9.12	(a) A qualified operator shall be available as
needed to sharpen knives.
(b)	The Company agrees to maintain its present
practice of furnishing heavy tools. All tools and equipment furnished shall remain Company property.
9.13	A fifteen (15) minute rest period will be granted twice in each shift. Midway before lunch and midway after lunch, provided that each work period is of more than two and one half (2 1/2) hours. A rest period of fifteen (15) minutes shall be granted in overtime provided the overtime shift exceed two and one-half (2 1/2) hours after the return from the second meal period. It is understood that the fifteen (15) minute rest period is the total duration of time off the job.
9.14	1 is agreed that, except in case of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for time off during their shift. Employees will not abuse this privilege of using the washroom.
ARTICLE 10 - WEEKLYGUARANTEE
10.1	The Company agrees to guarantee a minimum of thirty-seven (37) hours per week or pay in lieu of work exclusive of overtime and night shift premium, except as hereinafter provided.
(a)	An exception to the above rule occurs in the
case of gangs hired on a day basis and normally providing employment for a period of less than six (6) consecutive days:
-26-
	Examples: Cured hide take up, Supply Unloaders, Wreckers.
(b)	An employee who is absent from work for all personal reasons on any day that his gang works, shall have his guarantee for the week concerned reduced by the number of hours of work which he missed by such absence.
(c)	An employee who is excused from work for any part of a day, for any personal reason, shall have his guarantee reduced for the week concerned by the number of hours which he missed by such absence.
(d)	An employee who starts after the first of the payroll week shall be guaranteed for such a starting week that fraction of the guarantee which the number of hours remaining in the payroll week is of forty (40) hours.
(e)	Employees on layoff notice shall be entitled to their guarantee payment for the week in which notice is given and should notice extend into the subsequent week then the guaranteed payment for such week shall be that fraction of the guaranteed hours pay which the normal hours for those days of the notice occurring in such week is of forty (40).
(9	When it is apparent that a gang is going to work less than the guaranteed hours in any one week, it is permissible to use all of the gang on other work in order to avoid the guaranteed time penalty, reasonable consideration being given to change in working conditions, ability and seniority.
	-27-
(g)	If only part of the employees in any gang receiving guaranteed pay can be utilized with reasonable consideration to ability, seniority and working conditions they shall be entitled to any guaranteed pay due to their gang plus the extra time they put in. Each employee shall perform the task assigned to him conscientiously, if he fails to do so his guarantee shall be reduced by the number of hours he lost by such a refusal.
(h)	The guarantee shall be the same in the holiday weeks as all others. Pay received for any public holidays or in case of off-shifts, day in lieu of, shall be considered as earnings for the purpose of calculating the guarantee, unless such pay is for hours which fall outside an employee’s schedule.
(i)	In order to meet the demands of the business the Company can hire part-time workers excluded from the provisions cf this article for work of twenty-four (24) hours or less in a payroll week, provided the Union is notified when the employees are hired.
Parttime employees, that is employees employed for 24 hours weekly or less, and casual employees that is those employed for less than one week, are eligible for membership in the Union.	
Part-time employees shall be covered by a four (4) hour daily guarantee for each time they are called in for work.	
Part-time employees will be paid the same starting rate as probationary employees.	
	-28-
For the sole purpose of advancing in the wage scale, part-time employees will be paid increases the same as full-time employees.
Part-time employees shall not acquire any seniority or service rights forthe purposes of Article 15 - Health and Welfare.
The Company can hire up to one (1) part-time worker for each eight (8) full-time workers or 12 'h%.
Part-time and casual employees will not be used where it is practical to employ full time employees and, except as otherwise agreed with the President or Chief Steward, part time employees will not be employed for the purpose of reducing overtime unless that part time work is required on a regular basis. Where the work performed by part time or casual employees can be satisfactorily combined to permit the employment of full time employee, this will be done provided the employee can satisfactorily perform the work.
The Union may submit and the Company will consider, alternative means of doing the required work rather than employ part time or casual employees and such matters may be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures. At the discretion of the Company, part time employees may be put on full time status, making them eligible for all seniority and benefit rights. The Union may submit and the Company will consider any part time employee they feel merits full time status.
ARTICLE 11 SENIORITY
11.1	Seniority shall be defined as the length of an employee's service with the Bargaining Unit calculated as the elapsed time from the day he
-29-
was first employed, unless his seniority was broken, in which event such calculation shall be from the date he returned to work following the last break in his seniority.
11.2	Employees shall not acquire any seniority rights until they have accumulated sixty (60) working days service at which time they are entitled to plant seniority from the original day of employment.
11.3	Seniority lists shall be revised and brought up to date every six (6) months and the Company shall supply sufficient copies to the Union to cover their Executives and Union Stewards.
11.4 (a)	In the Bargaining Unit the filling of vacancies
shall be based on ability and seniority. Ability being sufficient, after a reasonable trail to do the job, seniority shall prevail. A reasonable trial shall not be less than six (6) weeks on the job, however, if mutually agreed, this period may be extended a maximum of two (2) weeks. Employees shall receive the applicable job rates provided for in the wage rate schedule for the job or jobs they have been posted or appointed to when they become qualified.
The word qualified, as used in this Agreement, shall be interpreted to mean ability to regularly perform the job without instruction or assistance.
If it is obvious that a person cannot qualify, or is causing serious loss or damage to product or equipment, he may be removed at any time. Employees failing to qualify will
-30-
become a “Floater,” (i.e.) A person without a regularjob positing.
(b)	Vacancies within the Bargaining Unit shall be posted from Thursday of each week until the following Wednesday in order to give employees with seniority ample time to apply. When vacancies are posted, the notice will include a Job Title, the shift to be worked and the Bracket payable. In any case there shall not be more than two postings per employee per calendar year. In the case that no application is received for a posting, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment of a floater and the appointee shall obtain posted status upon qualifying in the normal fashion as specified in 4 (a). An appointment to a job shall not constitute one of the two job postings per calendaryear. Transfers to jobs will be made within ten (10) working days from the date the posting was awarded, with the provision that wherever this proves impossible, suitable arrangements will be arrived at after consultation with the Union. When a posted employee is laid off, he will be deemed to have lost his posted job and shall return upon recall to work to any work available as a floater. Where an employee loses his posting due to a lay off or through hisjob being discontinued as set out in Article 8, section 7 (a) he shall be allowed an additional posting to compensate him for the posting lost through such lay off or job discontinuance. A vacancy exists when the same job function is performed for twenty (20) hours or more in a payroll week for sixteen (16) consecutive weeks. Job functions performed by part time employees shall not be posted.
-31
(c)	Postings dealing with the training of skilled mechanical tradesmen shall be dealt with as per the terms of the mechanical training plan in effect and this plan shall form part cf the contract. The Chief Steward or Vice President shall be informed of applicants to the program, and if requested, written reasons why successful applicants are chosen.
11.5	Seniority service records shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited and there shall be no obligation to rehire when an employee:
(a)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the Company or is discharged for cause.
(b)	After being laid off by the Company, fails to report to work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The present method of contact by telephone, or telegram, to the employee at the last known address shall constitute a reasonable effort on the part of the company and, if within two (2) working days of receipt cf such notice, the employee fails to report for duty, or advise the Company that he will report within five (5) working days, the Company shall be entitled to assume that the said employee left the company service voluntarily.
(c)	Has been offthe payroll of the Companyfor a period longerthan the time allowed in the following schedule:
-32-
Length of seniority at separation
less than one (1) year one (1) year and over
Length of date of allowable time off payroll
six (6) months two (2) years
11.6	Absence from work because of accident or sickness of less then (5) years, or leave of absence (excluding leaves granted and provided for under Article 11.11), shall not break continuity of seniority rights. When an employee is off work because of accident or sickness for more than five (5) years, he shall forfeit all seniority rights. When an employee is off work for more than two (2) years because of a disability, he shall relinquish his job posting. In the event of his return to work prior to the five (5) year limitation outlined above, he shall return to the position held prior to the absence or to one of equal rating, provided he is able to perform the work that is available within the customary trial period of not more than six (6) weeks on the job.
11.7	In case of a reduction in the working force the order cf layoff shall be as follows:
(a)	Probationary employees (i.e. those with less than sixty (60) days of service)
(b)	Part time and casual employees
(c)	Those with plant seniority
In the latter case, seniority shall be the determining factor provided the senior operator, after a reasonable time to qualify, is capable of doing the work performed by an employee with
-33-
less seniority, except where immediate essential qualifications are necessary for the efficient operation of the plant. In such cases the Company will discuss the matter with the Union. Any disagreement will be subject to the grievance procedure beginning at the third step.
11.8	(a) In cases of increases in the working force, rehiring shall be in the reverse order to that of layoffs. The Company shall advise the Union two (2) days in advance when a layoff is about to take place and shall give the Union a list of employees to be laid off. In cases where it is necessary to secure workers in less time than the required notice, the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recall the next senior employee and so on down the list until the vacancies are filled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time, he shall be given work for which the next senior employee was recalled. The two (2) day advance notice shall not apply to temporarily recalled employees (section 8
(c)	or casual employees.
(b) In case of layoff, other than in the event of emergencies herein referred to, employees shall be given one (1) working day’s notice for every completed six (6) months seniority, with a minimum notice of two (2) working days. In the case of an emergency due to causes beyond the Company’s control which results in the closing of a part or the whole of the plant, employees shall be given one (1) calendar day’s notice for every completed six (6) months seniority with a
-34-
maximum notice of five (5) working days and with a minimum notice of two (2) working days, but such two (2) days shall be exclusive of Sunday. If the company determines that additional work, not to exceed three (3) days, is available at the time any layoff is to become effective, then the notice shall be deemed to be extended for the period represented by such additional days of work. Probationary and Part Time Employees shall not be entitled to any lay off notice or weekly guarantee as set out in Article 10. Probationary Employees will be entitled to lay off notice and weekly guarantee as set out in Article 10 upon the completion of their probationary period.
(c) Employees with seniority may be temporarily recalled for not less than three (3) working days and not more than ten (10) working days as casual help with no layoff notice given, provided that this shall not be used as discrimination to any employee and provided that the employee and the Union is informed that such work is cf a temporary nature. When the ten (10) days are worked consecutively or have accumulated, the layoff notice shall apply. These casual employees shall not be covered by the guarantee until the ten (10) days have been reached. Employees who refuse recall under the provision of this clause will not be allowed to bump but shall have to await another recall.
11.9	When it is necessary to transfer employees the
following procedures shall be followed:
-35-
(a)	In the case of permanent transfers, subject to the provisions of Article 8, section 7, the order of transfer shall be:
	(1) Qualified floaters in the department concerned.
	(2) Posted employees in the department concerned in order of seniority beginning with the junior posted..
(b)	In the case of temporary transfers the order of transfer shall be:
	(1) Qualified floaters in the department in order of seniority.
	(2) Posted employees in the department in order of seniority beginning with the most junior.
(c)	In the case of a temporary transfer which is required to fill a specific vacancy where due to the importance of the job special skills, training or ability is required, the order of transfer shall be:
	(1) Qualified floaters in the department in order of seniority.
	(2) Junior qualified posted employees in the department.
	An employee who, because of previous experience in a department, is temporarily transferred to that department on a repetitive basis, may register his objections to such repetitive transfers in which case
	-36-
the Company will, subject to seniority, make a reasonable effort to obtain a replacement who can perform the work satisfactorily, or to train another employee who possesses suitable qualifications and can qualify reasonable quickly for such temporary transfers.
11.10	In cases of gang reductions or increases, an employee may elect to take a layoff or continue to be laid off if it is mutually agreed that the work which is available could prove detrimental to the health of the employee.
11.11	Employees, not to exceed one (1) percent of the number of employees in the Bargaining Unit who are appointed or elected to do business for the Union shall, upon written application be granted leave of absence without pay to attend to such business. Such employees shall continue to accumulate seniority for the period covered by this Agreement or any continuations or renewals thereof and upon giving the Company one (1) weeks' notice in writing of their intention to return to work shall be reinstated in the job held prior to the leave of absence or its equivalent, at the same rate of pay.
11.1.2	Where the Company demonstrates a need to train an employee for a (supervisory, technical or commercial position) such employee may be retained in employment without being subject to the lay off provisions of this Agreement. The number of such employees on the protected list shall not exceed one (1) percent of the number of employees in the Bargaining Unit. The Chief Steward of the Union is to be advised of the names of any person on this protected list.
-37-
11.13	Employees shall notify the Personnel Office of all changes of address and telephone numbers, temporary or permanent. Failure of the employees to do so will relieve the Company of any financial responsibilitiesthe Company may have under this Agreement. Twice a year, the Company will supply the Provincial Union Office with an updated Employee listing showing addresses and telephone numbers.
11.14	A female employee with plant seniority who applies for leave of absence before her sixth month of pregnancy shall be granted leave of absence up to six months commencing at least three months prior to confinement and extending three months after confinement.
Immediately prior to the expiration of such leave of absence, the employee may signify in writing, supported by a doctor’s certificate of physical fitness, that she wishes to return to work and in such case she will be reinstated within one week provided she has had the necessary seniority and is able to perform the required work satisfactorily. Seniority will accumulate during such leave of absence, and she will be reinstated in her former job or one of equal rating.
When a female employee who has been granted a pregnancy leave under the above clause, suffers a miscarriage, or some other medical reason has a premature termination of pregnancy, said employee shall then be considered as having been off on sickness, and upon recovery, and tendering a doctor’s certificate that she is able and fit to return to regular duties, will be reinstated in her former job, or one of equal rate. Female employees shall notify the Company prior to the leave as to the disposition of their vacation credits.
-38-
11.15 Parental Leave: An employee with twelve (12) months of service with the Company, who applies for leave, in writing, at least four (4) weeks prior to the date he intends to take leave, supported by appropriate documentation shall be granted a Parental leave of six (6) weeks if:
(a)	(j) In the case of a female employee,
becomes the natural mother of a child,
(ii)	In the case of a male employee, becomes the natural father of a child or assumes actual care and custody of his newborn child.
(iii)	He adopts a child under the law of the Province, and
(b)	Parental leave must commence no later than the first anniversary of the birth or adoption of the child or of the date on which the child comes into the actual care and custody of the employee.
(c)	An employee who holds a posting will be reinstated at the expiry of the leave to his posted job or one of equal rating.
(d)	Seniority shall accumulate through such periods of leave.
(e)	Employees who wish to take parental leave upon completion of a maternity leave must take both leaves continuously, without break, unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the employee and the Company.
-39-
ARTICLE 12
VACATIONS
12.1	(a) The Company agrees, subject to the provisions set forth within the following sections, to grant the following vacations with pay to regular employees covered by this Agreement.
Length of service Length of Vacation
After 1 year After 5 years After 10 years After 19 years After 25 years
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
Effective June 1, 1992, provide 6 weeks of vacation after 24 years of service and to provide7 weeks of vacation after 30 years of service.
(b) Calculation of holiday pay: Holiday pay will be calculated on the following basis: The number of weeks he is entitled to at his regular hourly rate, or two percent (2%) of his gross annual earnings, for each week of vacation entitlement, whichever is the greater.
The regular hourly rate referred to above shall be the employee's regular hourly rate during the same period that the total earnings were calculated. In case more than one rate is involved, his average rate will be calculated.
12.2	Every plant employee becomes eligible for vacation upon completion of one year's service.

-40-
There shall be a common anniversary date, from January 1st., to December 31st., for the purpose of calculating annual vacation entitlement, where an employee has not completed a year of service he shall receive 4% of his previous years gross annual earnings.
12.3	(a) Employees absent for reasons of sickness
and/or accident, who return to work following these phases shall be entitled to annual vacations as set out in article 12, clause 1, and pay for such vacations shall be provided for in clause 3(b).
(b) In the case of sickness and noncompensable accident certified by a practicing physician, an employee, upon his return to service with the Company, shall receive service credit for each week of such absence not to exceed twenty-six (26) weeks, as if earnings had been received, on the basis of forty hours per week at his regular rate of pay. The above shall be confined to one year’s vacation rights for any one illness. An employee returning to work after a compensable accident shall be granted up to one years vacation credits on the basis of forty hours per week at his regular hourly rate.
12.4	Employees will be paid their vacation pay the day prior to proceeding on vacation. Upon application by the employee and provided one weeks notice is given vacation pay will be paid up to 14 days prior to his scheduled vacation.
12.5	(a) Vacation may be granted, at any time
subject to the requirements of the business,
-41
but the Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacations at the time requested by the employees, senior employees in each department being given preference. Employees eligible for vacation shall be notified of their vacation period as far in advance as possible. The Company agrees to vacation allotment of 118th or 12 'k%.
(b)	Where an employee is off on sickness or compensation, and is cleared with a doctor's certificate, he shall not be compelled to work anytime beforegoing on holidays if his holidays are scheduled for the following week.
(c)	Employeeswho have attained seniority who are laid off shall have the right to choose whether they receive their vacation pay up to date or leave the vacation pay with the Company in order to have a paid vacation at a later date.
12.6	Earned vacation privileges not exercised shall be paid if and when an employee quits or is discharged for cause from service, at a rate equal to the amount of vacation earned.
12.7	An employee eligible for a fourth, fifth, sixth or seventh week of vacation may, by prior arrangement with his foreman, accumulate his fourth and/or fifth and/or sixth or seventh week of vacation from year to year to be taken at a later time convenient to the Company, taking into account the wishes of the employee. Such accumulated vacations may be taken only as full weeks or multiples thereof. Such vacations will, as far as possible, be granted for the period
-42-
	selected by the employee, but final allocation of such vacations will be left to the Company in order to assure orderly operation cf the plant, and provided that they do not interfere with the scheduling of regular vacations during the current year.
	ARTICLE 13 SAFETY AND HEALTH
13.1	The Company shall make reasonable provision for the safety and health of the employees during hours of their employment. Protective devices and other equipment deemed necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. First aid shall be available for employees at all times when employees are working. The present practice as regards to registered nurse shall be continued.
13.2	Protective devices and other safety equipment provided by the Company and agreed to by the Union shall be used by the employees.
13.3	The Company and the Union will cooperate in establishing a joint Plant Safety Committee in accordance with Provincial Legislation which shall be responsible for investigating concerns and resolving problems relating to Occupational Health and Safety.
	The Occupational Health and Safety committee shall hold regular meetings and shall inspect, monitor and make recommendations regarding Occupational Health conditions and safety practices within the plant. The Committee will also function in the education of all employees of the Company regarding Occupational Health and
	-43-
Safety. The Committee will monitor compliance with and make recommendations on applicable health and safety Legislation.
13.4 The Company is committed to making reasonable provisions for safety and health of its employees. Should the Union be concerned that this commitment is not being met, the matter should be raised with the Plant Superintendent. Should the matter not be resolved, it should then be raised with the Plant Manager. A full time representative of the Union may attend these meetings.
ARTICLE 14 GENERAL
14.1	The Company will allow necessary time for changing clothes or equipment as necessitated by changing from one job to another where conditions are different enough to warrant it.
14.2	Laundry services for employees shall be maintained on the same basis as at present.
14.3	The Company shall provide a locking bulletin board and use of other bulletin boards, for the use of the Union, at suitable places on the plant premises. All bulletins shall be submitted to the Plant Manager for approval before posting.
14.4	All privileges and benefits which are not covered by this Agreement but which are now enjoyed by the Employees or the Company shall remain in effect during the life of this Agreement except that gifts, presents or other bonuses shall be at the discretion of the Company.
-44-
14.5	In the event of any walkout or stoppage of work the Union shall not do or permit to be done anything by any of its members to prevent power house staff, such as firemen, engineers and an electrician, from continuing all or any part of their regular duties in the service of the Company. Furthermore, the Union shall cooperate and assist the Company in taking reasonable precautions to protect perishable products, but such assistance shall only extend through such period as the Company does not attempt to restore normal production.
14.6	The Company shall make up the difference between an employee's scheduled hours at his regular hourly rate and the amount he is paid by the Government for the hours he is required to be away from work on jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness by the Crown. Upon being released from jury duty the employee must report for work.
14.7	The Company shall reimburse employees for the renewal of necessary licenses or tickets required in the performance of their duties.
This is not to include any costs other than the basic cost of the license itself. Upon application by the employee, the Company shall reimburse the employee for wages lost due to writing any exam necessary to obtain a required license or ticket.
14..8 (a) When an employee attends the funeral of an immediate relative, he shall receive eight (8) hours pay at this regular rate for the day of the funeral and two other days to be taken not later than two days following the day of the funeral, provided that such payments
-45-
are made only in respect to absence from work on his regular work days. For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be one of the following: Wife, husband, daughter, son, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law stepmother, stepfather, stepsister, stepbrother, stepdaughter, stepson, grandchildren, grandmother and grandfather. Effective the date of ratification of this Agreement one (1) day of paid bereavement leave for the day of the funeral only will be granted for brother-in-law, sister-in-law or grandparents-in-law.
14.8	(b) When an employee cannot attend the
funeral of an immediate relative because of geographical distance he shall receive 8 hours pay at his regular rate for the day of the funeral. Such payment will be made only in respect to an absence from work on his regular scheduled work day. The Company may require verification of the date of the funeral.
14.9	(a) Launderable outer work clothing, oil-skin
aprons, and oil-skin sleeves, specified by the Company as required for work in the departments of the plant will be supplied to employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and shall not be removed from the Company’s premises except in the regular performance of duty, and must be returned for new issue or upon separation of the employee. Clothing not returned when worn out or upon separation will be paid for by the employee. Rubber boots and belts specified by the Company
-46-
as required for work will be supplied to employees.
(b)	Employees with more than six (6) months seniority, who purchase a quilted vest or liner for use on the job, shall receive an allowance of up to $25.00 towards such purchase. Employees with less than six months seniority who so purchase such clothing shall be reimbursed up to $25.00 towards such purchase on attainment of six months seniority. For a subsequent purchase, employees will again become eligible for this allowance three (3) years from the date of their previous purchase under this provision. Effective April 1, 1996 Employees will become eligible for this allowance two (2) years from the date of their purchase. Laundering of such clothing shall be the responsibility of the employee.
(c)	Employees with more than six (6) months seniority who purchase C.S.A. approved safety footwear for use on the job shall receive an allowance of up to $55.00 towards such purchase, employees with less than six (6) months seniority who so purchased such footwear shall be reimbursed up to $55.00 towards such purchase on attainment of six (6) months seniority. For a subsequent purchase, employees will again become eligible for this allowance one year from the date of their previous purchase under this provision.
-47-
(d)	Posted Freezer Employees with more than six months seniority shall receive an allowance of up to $30.00 every two years forthe purchase of freezer pants for use on the job. Effective the date of ratification of this Agreement the allowance referred to herein will be increasedto $50.00.
14.10	Tools - Mechanical Tradesmen of the Mechanical Department, with seniority, shall upon presentation of required tools broken or worn out on the job receive replacement tools, such replacements shall be limited to those specified by the Company as being required and shall in addition be limited to a maximum replacement cost of $65.00 per contract year per affected employee. Special cases that might work hardships on individual employees may be considered by the Company at the request of the Union.
This allowance may also be used for the purchase of new tools required by the Company to maintain new equipment or to employ new techniques.
Any unused portion of this allowance remaining at the end of a contract year, but not exceeding $65.00 will be carried over only into the following contract year. Effective July 1, 1995, the tool allowance referred to herein shall be increasedto $100.00. Effective July 1, 1996 this allowance shall be further increasedto $125.00.
14.11	The Union agrees to co-operate with the Company in securing punctual and regular attendance at work and to do all in its power to eliminate lateness or absence from work on the part of employees for other than necessary reasons.
-48-
14.12	The Company and the Union agree not to discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment by reason of race, creed, religion, colour, sex, marital status, physical disability, nationality, ancestry, place of origin, or lawful trade union activity.
14.13	Upon application of the employee, Leave of Absence without pay may be granted at the option of the Company.
Seniority shall accumulate through such periods of such Leave of Absence.
14.14	(a) The Company will give hearing tests to all
new employees as part of the preemployment medical.
(b) No employee with seniority will be required to take hearing tests from the Company, but may do so voluntarily, subject to Provincial Legislation.
14.15	There will be no charge for cutting and wrapping staff sales.
ARTICLE 15
HEALTH AND WELFARE
15.1	The Health and Accident Insurance Plan presently in effect shall be continued, as hereinafter amended, but the subject may be re-opened for negotiations should a more favourable plan be presented by either party.
15.2	(a Benefit payments shall be based on 60% of
the claimants regular weekly earnings, exclusive of sporadic overtime, premiums,
-49-
etc., immediately preceding his claim. Any applicable income tax payable on such payment will be deducted per benefit payment. In the event an employee has a claim refused by the Workers Compensation Board, for reasons of “noncompensable claim'', he shall become eligible for benefits under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. This is provided the terms and conditions of the plan are met. In addition, the employee must sign a statement to the effect that if benefits are subsequently received from the Worker's Compensation Board, for the claim, benefits received under the Weekly Indemnity Plan must be repaid to the insurer.
Both the Company and the Union agree that in the event that a claim refused by the Worker's Compensation Board would appear to be appealable, the employee should be encouraged to proceed with an appeal.
(b) The service for duration of payment is as follows:
3-18 months service...........15 weeks
18 months - 5 year service....16 weeks
5-7 years service.............26 weeks
7-10 years service............34 weeks
10 years service and over.....52 weeks
In the case of normal sickness a three (3) day waiting period is to be observed, payment of benefits commencing on the fourth day. However, where an employee is hospitalized - hospitalized shall be
-50-
	interpreted as being admitted to a hospital as an in patient, due to illness within the waiting period or where an employee is unable to work due to a non-compensable accident the waiting period shall be waived. The waiting period referred to herein shall also be waived in the event that the employee undergoes "Day Surgery" procedures.
(C)	The Company agreesto paythe benefits set out in the benefit scale in 2 (a) of this Article in accordance with the service scale set out in 2 (c) of this Article and any benefits available to employees under Government Legislation, or from any other source, shall have no bearing or effect whatsoever on the benefits due to an employee from the Company Plan. However, it is understood that in situations of third party liability the Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan will exercise its right of subrogation to recover monies advanced to a claimant.
(d)	The Company will paythe first $7.80 of the required sick pay premium per employee, with the balance of the required monthly premium shared equally between the Company and the employee.
(e)	Weekly Indemnity premium will be deducted on a weekly basis from employees who have earnings in the payroll week but will cease to be deducted from the eligible employee who is receiving benefits under this plan provided he is medically unable to work.
	-51-
(9 In acceptingthe above Plan as outlined, the Union agrees that the improved benefits are in exchange for the portion of U.I.C. rate reductionto which they would otherwise be entitled, and it is further agreed that the right to any rebate, which would have become payable, is waived.
15.3	Medicare & Hospitalization: The Company will continue to pay the full cost of Medicare and Hospitalization premiums where such premiums are required, at the present rate schedule. If there is an increase in premiums charged for provincial compulsory medicare and hospitalization plans the Company will also pay the additional premium up to a maximum of $5.00 per month for single coverage and $10.00 per month for dependent coverage.
If there is a compulsory governmental sponsored medical surgical plan which includes a requirement for doctors' deterrents, the Company will subject to the following, provide coverage for such deterrents. The cost for providing this coverage will apply against the $5.00 per month single coverage and the $10.00 per month dependent coverage maximum additional premium liability set out above.
15.4	Major Medical:	Present deductible - single
$25.00, family $50.00 per calendar year. Whenthe expenses exceed the above deductible, the plan will pay eighty-five (85) percent of such excess to a maximum of $5,000.00.
Premiums of major medical fully paid by the Company. Effective April 1, 1995, this major medical plan shall be amended to provide
-52-
chiropractic coverage of up to $7.00 per visit to a maximum of ten (10) visits per year.
15.5	Effective April 1, 1986, amend to provide $20,000.00 Group Life Insurance. Effective April 1, 1987, amend to provide $25,000.00 Group Life Insurance. The Company will pay the full cost of the premiums. Coverage will also include a paid up policy upon retirement in the amount of $1,000.00. Effective the first of the month following date of ratification of this Agreement the Companywill provideall retiring Employeeswith a paid up life insurance policy of $2,000.00. Effective July 1, 1996 this amount shall be increasedto $3,000.00.
EffectiveApril 1, 1989, the companywill introduce an Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan which will provide a maximum benefit of $25,000.00.
15.6	Vision Care: The Major Medical Plan is extended to provide the following: up to a maximum of one hundred and ten ($110.00) dollars for the expenses incurred for eye glasses and/or frames in twenty-four (24) consecutive months for each insured member and their dependents. Effective April 1, 1995 this coverage shall be increased to $125.00. Reimbursement will not be provided for any expense incurred for Sun Glasses, Safety Glasses, or for any form of eye glasses provided for cosmetic or aesthetic purpose.
No deductible or co-insurance applies to vision care items.
15.7	The premium cost of the Dental Plan presently in effect will be paid for by the Company. The
-53-
Company is free to contact with the carrier providing the lowest premium for equal benefits. The Dental Plan allowable expenses will be based on the current fee schedule in Provinces where such a schedule exists, otherwise, upon the prevailing prior schedule. Effective Nov. 6/94 the current dental plan which provides 80% coverage under plan A, and 50% coverage under plan B will be amended to provide orthodontic coverage under planC with a 50% coverageupto a lifetime maximum of $1000.
15.8	The Company agrees to provide hearing aid benefits to employees for the purchase of hearing aids obtained on the written prescription of a physician certified as an Otolaryngologist, not exceeding five hundred ($500.00) dollars per employee during the entire time the employee is insured, with the normal deductible and coinsurance provisions not applying.
15.9	Amend to include memorandum of long term disability into the Collective Agreement. Effective April 1, 1986, amend maximum benefit from $1,000.00 to $1,100.00. Effective April 1, 1995 amend maximum benefit from $1100.00 to $1300.00 per month.
15.10	Eligibility. An employee becomes eligible for benefits under the Health and Welfare sections contained in this Article upon completion cf six (6) months of accumulated service.
Effective October 1,1986, employeeswill become eligible for the Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan after completion of three (3) months of accumulated service.
-54-
15.10	(a) Employees will not be eligible for benefits
under Article 15 - Health and Welfare after being off the payroll for a period of 30 calendar days. Employees may have the Company continue their Medicare and Hospitalization Plan for a period of up to five months by paying their own premiums directly to the Company.
15.11	Continuation of benefits coverage: An insured employee, prior to his 65th birthday who becomes totally disabled due to sickness, compensable or non-compensable accident will be eligible for continued benefit coverage without payment of further premiums so long as the disability continues subject to the time limitationsset out in Article 11-6. The specific benefits referred to are Group Life Insurance, Dental Care, Vision Care, Major Medical, and Accidental Death and Dismemberment.
Satisfactory proof certified by a Physician must be submitted by the employee and periodic evidence of continued disability must be furnished upon request.
The employee will relinquish his job posting after two years of continued disability from last day worked.
-55-
ARTICLE 16
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
The terms of this Agreement shall be in full force and effect from the 1 si day of June 1994, until the 31st day of~Mav 199Z. unless otherwise specified and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives notice in writing of termination or amendment of not morethan 90 days and not less than 30 days prior to the date of expiry, or as per Provincial Legislation. During the period of negotiations resulting from any of the provisions above, this Agreement will remain in full force and effect.
Signed this 31st day of October, 1994, in the Municipality of Delta in the Province of British Columbia on behalf of:
Intercontinental	United Food and
Packers Limited	Commercial Workers
Local 1518
Valerie Anderson
-56-
	APPENDIX
I -Plant Closing	
1. When it becomes necessary to close the plant or a substantial portion of the plant and it is not expected that those affected will be re-employed, a separation allowance will be paid to employees subject to the following:	
(a)	They have one or more years seniority.
(b)	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid off within the 45 day period preceding the date of notice of closing. Employees on leave of absence up to one year, and employees receiving Workers' Compensation or off sick will be eligible, provided they have not been off work in excess of the time limits corresponding to seniority as set out in Article 11.5(c).
(c)	They have not accepted retirement on pension.
(cD	They have not accepted transfer to another plant.
(e)	The closing is not brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slow-down or other cessation of work, fire, government action, or act of God.
(9	In order to qualify for separation allowance, employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
	-57-
Separation allowance shall be as follows effective the date of ratification.
Years of
completed Service	Amount
1	..............................$420.00
2	..............................510.00
3	..............................720.00
4	..............................920.00
5	............................1,170.00
6	............................1,400.00
7	............................1,620.00
8	............................1,860.00
9	............................2,080.00
10	...........................2,330.00
11-20	The ten year allowance plus
$370.00 for each year over ten.
21 and over The twenty year allowance plus $470.00 for each year over twenty.
In addition, employees will be entitled to a supplement based on completed full years of age and service as of the date <f closing. Employees whose combined age and service, as above, total 65, will be entitled to a supplement of $2,700.00 plus an additional $135.00 for each year the combinedtotal exceeds65.
(h) Eligible employeeswho are 60 or over shall receive a Service Award Benefit, guaranteed five years as follows:
•58-
Years of
completed Service
Additional Annual Long Service Amount
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
..$1175.00
....1245.00
....1310.00
....1375.00
...1440.00
....1505.00
....1590.00
....1670.00
....1750.00
....1830.00
....1910.00
....1990.00
....2070.00
....2150.00
....2230.00
....2310.00
....2395.00
....2470.00
....2550.00
....2630.00
....2710.00
....2790.00
....2870.00
....2955.00
....3030.00
....3115.00
....3190.00
....3275.00
....3350.00
....3430.00
....3515.00
....3590.00
-59-
2.	Employees who accept separation pay under the provision of this clause shall on doing so terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement between signing parties.
	In the event part of the plant remains open, employees eligible to receive a separation allowance may elect to remain on the seniority list for possible recall. The Company will hold the separation allowance for such employees as long as they are eligiblefor recall, during which time the employee may request payment subject to the provisions of the above paragraph. Those reemployed on this basis will receive seniority credit up to the time of their layoff but shall not accumulate additional seniority during the period of layoff.
3.	In respect to those employees who are eligible for separation allowance under this article the Company will continue to contribute to the Group Life Insurance, Medical Surgical, Dental, Major Medical and Hospitalization Plans. Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to six months following the month in which the plant is closed and will be made on the basis existing at the time of closing.
4.	Employees eligible to receive a separation allowance, who elect to remain on the seniority list as outlined in 2, will be entitled to recall in accordance with the provisions of Article 11.5 (c).
	-60-
II Work Methods
Change in working methods: When the introduction of new equipment makes a material change which is expected to result in the closing of a department or a substantial reduction in the number of employees in a department, the Company will inform the Union of such change at least ninety days in advance of the contemplated change and the parties will discuss what is expected to take place and how the matter may best be handled. Employees who are eligible for placement in the plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in Article 11, section 4(a). Employees with five or more years of seniority who are affected by such change and who are not eligible for placement in the plant will be entitled to the provisions set out in clause 1, plant closing.
Where an employee is transferred to work where the job rate is lower, as a direct result of the introduction of new equipment or where an employee remains on a job reduced in value following a technological change, his rate shall not be reduced for a period of three (3) years, including layoff, provided that the employee accepts all opportunitiesto post to work where the job rate is higher, unless it is unreasonable to expect such employees to apply due to such things as age, health, working conditions, and the employee's ability to learn the job. Where an employee after a sincere effort, is unable to qualify, his rate protection shall not be affected.
In the application cf rates or adjustments of bracket values such an employee will not be paid a rate greater than the rate paid to him at the time of the above mentioned posting, except for reasons of a general wage increase after the date of transfer.
-61
At the expiry of the three (3) year period set out above, the amount of rate reduction shall be limited to two (2) brackets. At twelve (12) months intervals thereafter, further reductions of a maximum of two (2) brackets shall take place until the lower rate prevails.
Ill Contracting out
The Company prefers to have work done by its employees although at times it is necessary to have work performed by outside contractors. The relevant factors which the company will consider before contracting out such work include, adverse effect on employees, availability of required skills, duration and frequency of the job, urgency of the job, cost of equipment in relation to its use and relative cost comparison.
When work performed on the premises by outside contractors represents a material change in practice and has an adverse effect on present employees of a group affected by such change of practice, the matter may be the subject of a grievance and may be taken to arbitration. The Company shall inform a representative of the Union prior to bringing contractors into the plant, unless an emergency situation arises in which case the Union shall be immediately notified once the emergency is over.
Should an arbitration committee be called on to review the Company’s action, it may consider the relevant factors referred to above, in order to determine the reasonableness of the Company’s action with regard to all circumstances, should the arbitration committee find the Company’s action was not reasonable, the committee will direct that the Company choose between having the work performed by its employees or ceasing such operation, and the Company shall have a reasonable time to effect the decision.
-62-
This provision does not apply to cafeteria operations, to “Out of town” deliveries, and to installation and construction work. The Company may at times experiment to determine if work can be performed effectively and economically by its own employees. When this is done for a trial period, it shall not be considered a change of practice should the Company elect to contract out, after the trial period.
IV Recognition of Long Service
All full time employees who reach their normal retirement date and who retire from service, shall receive commencing at the later of the employee's normal or deferred retirement date, a monthly payment in recognition of long service guaranteed five years calculated as follows:	For each employee for service
with Intercontinental Packers Limited the number of years of such service multiplied by $19.00 per month. Service will be calculated to the last completed quarter year. The benefit on termination before retirement otherwise by death will be, if the employee has 20 years of service or 10 years of service, if he is age 45 or more, a deferred annuity payable from normal retirement date equal to the benefit accumulated to the time of termination.
Effective July 1, 1995 increase the benefit to $20.00 per year of service per month.
The parties agree that payment under this memorandum do not constitute a pension or a pension benefit.
-63-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Funding of Long Service Award
Effective July 1, 1989, the Company agrees, giving due consideration to the recommendations of its actuary and the Government regulations involved, to undertake the registration and funding of the Recognition of Long Service Program, by the most appropriate means available.
V - Early Retirement
Intercontinental Packers Limited Employees Pension Plan
An employee retiring from the Company prior to his Normal retirement Date (the first of the month coincident with or next following his 65th birthday) will be entitled to the Contributory Company Pension and Recognition of Long Service Pension accrued to the date of his retirement calculated on the following basis:
(a)	The accrued Contributory Company Pension and Long Service Pension will not be actuarially reduced for employees whose age and years of service equal eighty-five (85). Employees who fail to qualify under this “Rule of 85” will not have their accrued Contributory Company Pension and Long Service Pension actuarially reducedfor the eighty-four (84) month period immediately preceding the employee's Normal Retirement Date.
(b)	The accrued Contributory Company Pension and Long Service Pension will be actuarially reduced for any employee who does not qualify for the “Rule of 85” and who retires prior to the eighty-four (84) months immediately preceding the employee's Normal Retirement Date.
-64-
(C) The actuarial reduction of Contributory Company Pension and Long Service Pension will be based on a four percent (4%) reduction and no reduction of years of service will apply.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
R E Early Retirement Bridge Benefit
The Company hereby agrees to provide an Early Retirement Bridge Benefit of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per month to all eligible employees covered by the Memorandum of Settlement signed today in accordance with the following terms and conditions.
All employees aged fifty-eight (58) and over, who retire early from employment with Intercontinental Packers Limited between June 1, 1994 and May 31, 1997, shall receive an Early Retirement Bridge Benefit of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per month. The benefit will be payable monthly commencing with the first full month following retirement and shall continue until the employee's sixty-fifth birthday or death, whichever comes first. Eligible employees exercising this option must give the Company two months notice of their intention to retire.
The Early Retirement Bridge Benefit will expire and this letterwill cease to have any effect on May 31, 1997.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Coffee and Tea
This letter will confirm that only for the life of the contract presently being negotiated, the Company will continue to provide at no cost to the employees, free coffee or tea (up to 4 cups daily) and only during the hours of an employee's shift.
■65-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Reference: Article 11.3 Seniority
The following information is available to the Union, when desired on a weekly basis:
(1)	Employees hired
(2)	Employees recalled
(3)	Employees laid off and their posting
(4)	Employees quitting (update seniority list)
(5)	Employees on vacation
(6)	Employees on leave (Over one week)
(7)	Long term sickness and Compensation one week or
more duration
(8)	Wfeelky recap of all overtime worked
The current practice of supplying information shall be continued.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Annual Vacations
Where an employee is entitled to four (4) or more weeks vacation those weeks of vacation in excess of three (3) shall be taken at a time other than during that period of June through the first week in September inclusive.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
R E Retirement Plan Death Benefit
Effective July 1,1986, the benefit payable on death prior to retirement underthe Plan, is changedto the following:
-66-
Employees with 15 years service or more:
A pension payable to the employee’s spouse equal to 50% of the employee’s full earned pension as at the date of death, payable for the lifetime of the spouse, commencing on the 1st of the month coincident with or next following the date of death. The minimum total amount payable will be equal to the employee's death benefit as at June 30, 1986 with interest to the date of death.
However, if the spouse is more than 10 years younger than the employee, then the pension payable will be reduced by one percentage point for each year that the difference in ages exceed 10. If the employee has no spouse, a lump sum equal to the employee’s death benefit as at June 30, 1986 with interest to the date of death plus employee contributions made after June 30, 1986 with interestto the date of death.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Preferred Placement Assignments (Light Duty)
Preferred placement assignments will only be considered after a Doctor's certificate has been received by the Company, authorizing a return to work by the employee.
Preferred placement will only be considered after mutual agreement has been reached by the Company and the employee concerned.
The Chief Steward, Asst. Chief Steward, or VicePresident shall be present at such meetings.
i
-67-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Union Representativevisits
This will confirm our agreement, for the life of the Collective Agreement reached as a result cf these negotiations, to allow the Servicing Representativeof the Union access, by appointment, to the premises of the Company subject to the following conditions.
1.	The purpose of the visit will be limited exclusively to matters arising out of the administration of the Collective Agreement.
2.	The visit will not disrupt or interfere, in anyway, with the operation of the business.
3.	All visits must be arranged with the Personnel Manager, or a designated Management Representative, in advance.
4.	The Company will not unreasonably deny the Servicing Representativeaccess to it's premises.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan - Right of Subrogation
This will confirm our understanding that the language adopted in Article 15-2(C) regarding the right of subrogation will not be applied retroactively to support claims of recovery by the Insurance Carrier underwriting the Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan, arising prior to this date. The Insurance Carrier will rely on the Weekly Indemnity Sick Plan Documents and the Collective Agreements in force at the time a claim for disability payments arising out of a situation of third party liability was processed by the Plan.
—68—
This will also confirm our agreement that Local 1518 of the U.F.C.W. will not be held responsible for any legal action which arises out of the recovery of monies under a right of subrogation by the Insurance Carrier, but rather, the Insurance Carrier will assume full responsibility for any legal action.
Clothing List
Coveralls, white for drivers.
Coveralls, blue for maintenance.
Luggers, blue & white.
Hard hats.
Shirts, green for all kill floor.
Gloves, cotton.
Gloves, rubberized.
Pig skin gloves for freezer shippers& stock takers. Welders gloves Rubber boots.
Aprons, neoprene.
Aprons, boning.
Gloves, sanitary throw away.
Hard hat liners, freezer and cooler use.
Belts.
Freezer coats.
Lined freezer gloves.
Raincoats, for drivers.
Shirts, for clean up.
Parkas, for freezers.
Coveralls, for shippers and beef cooler crews.
Hairnets.
-69-
BRACKET VALUES
Bracket
Dec. 1	May 5 Dec 1
1994	1996	1996
0.. 1 .. 2..
3..
4..
5..
6..
7..
8.. 9.. 10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
15.115
15.195
15.275
15.355
,15.435
15.515
,15.595
15.675
,15.755
,15.835
.15.915
,15.995
.16.075
,16.155
,16.235
.16.315
.16.395
.16.475
.16.555
.16.635
.16.715
.16.795
.16.875
.16.955
,17.035
.17.115
.17.195
.17.275
17.355
17.435
17.515
.17.595
15.365
15.445
15.525
15.605
15.685
15.765
15.845 15.925 16.005 16.085 16.165 16.245 16.325 16.405 16.485 16.565 16.645 16.725 16.805 16.885 16.965 17.045 17.125 17.205 17.285
17.365
17.445
17.525
17.605
17.685
17.765
17.845
15.565
15.645
15.725
15.805
15.885
15.965
16.045 16.125 16.205 16.285 16.365 16.445 16.525 16.605 16.685 16.765 16.845 16.925 17.005 17.085 17.165 17.245 17.325 17.405 17.485
17.565
17.645
17.725
17.805
17.885
17.965
18.045
-70-
Bracket
Dec. 1	May 5	Dec 1
1994	1996	1996
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
17,675	17.925	18.125
17.755	18.005	18.205
17.835	18.085	18.285
17.915	18.165	18.365
17,995	18.245	18.445
18,075	18.325	18.525
18.155	18.405	18.605
18,235	18.485	18.685
18.315	18.565	18,765
JOB RATES
NOTE: (In all departments where applicable)
Trucker and Scaler...............................2
Labourer.........................................0
Trucker..........................................0
Stitcher Operator................................2
Powerworker Operator.............................4
STOCKYARDS
5 4
Scaler,
Yarder
BEEF KILL
Driver...........................................1
Knocker..........................................7
Shackler.........................................5
Sticker.........................................12
Weasand Pusher...................................6
Remove Head Prepare for Workup...................4
71
Leg Remover......................................4
Rumper..........................................22
Bunger...........................................6
Open and Rim....................................21
Brisket Opener...................................6
Gutter..........................................12
Splitter Power Saw..............................13
Carcass T rimmer.................................5
Beef Head Dejointer..............................8
Hind Leg Skinner................................20
Anderson Hide Puller............................19
Scribe Saw.......................................5
Remove Kidney and Defat..........................5
Neck Bruise and Skirt Trim.......................5
Scaler...........................................5
Washer...........................................2
Shrouder.........................................7
All Round Beef Kill Butcher.....................19
Rollerman........................................2
Beef Head Workup.................................7
Catch Blood......................................2
Plasma Operator..................................4
Head Washer (Flusher)........................... 2
Held Rail........................................9
Cut Off Front Legs, Snout & Dehorn...............5
HIDES
I nspector-Grader.................................6
Trimmer...........................................4
Tie. Scale and Truck..............................4
-72-
BEEF COOLERS AND SHIPPING
Coolerman.......................
Scaler and Deskman..............
Beef Lugger.....................
Beef Breaker, Primal Cuts (any saw).
Rib Beef........................
Sack-Wrap-Stencil...............
Trimmer.........................
..3
..7
..7
11
..6
..2
..3
BEEF BONING
Beef Breaker- any saw...........................11
Domestic Beef Boner.............................13
Trimmer-Whizzard Knife...........................3
Pack-Scale-Record................................4
Retail Cut Fabricator...........................11
Bone-Roll-Stitch-Fresh Hams......................8
Check Trimmer....................................3
Packer and Scaler................................3
Truck. Scale and Record..........................3
BLOC REDI BEEF
Prepare for Break-Up...........................11
Beef Breaker- Primal cuts (any saw)............11
Trim Primal Cuts...............................11
Bag Primal Cuts - Cryovac.......................3
Vacuumizing Product.............................3
Pack-Scale-Record...............................4
Sort Cuts. Label. Pack to Cartons...............4
Pack Scale and Record O.W.......................7
-73-
FANCY MEATS
Tripe Trimmer - Defat and Open.................5
Tripe Washer and Trimmer.......................5
Separate and Tie Off...........................4
Tripe Scraper..................................2
Open Stomachs..................................3
Separate Plucks from Viscera...................5
Inspector and Grader...........................3
Prepare Viscera................................2
Fancy Meat Trimmer.............................4
Grade-Scale and Pack...........................4
Save Glands....................................4
Liver Skinner..................................4
Trim Tongues...................................4
Trim Plucks....................................4
Save Hog Stomachs..............................5
Wash and Pack Animal Tripe.....................4
Save Animal Foods..............................4
RENDERING
BlowTank Operator,..................................5
Expeller Operator.................................. 9
Tankman.............................................9
Sharples-Operator..................................11
Sharples-Assistant..................................6
Flotation and Tallow Clarification..................9
Inedible Operator...................................4
Lard Carton Packer..................................2
Votator Operator....................................8
-74-
HOG KILL
Driver-Hogs.......................................1
Electrical Stunner................................5
Shackler..........................................7
Stickler.........................................15
Scalding Tank Tender..............................2
Feed and Operate Dehairing Machine................8
Gam Cord Cutter.................................. 6
Insert Gambrel and Hang.......................... 3
Toenail Puller....................................2
Carcass Shaver (Knife) Hams.......................7
Balance.................................6
Brisket Opener....................................6
OpenAitch Bone....................................4
Belly Opener.....................................11
Bung Dropper.....................................12
Gutter...........................................12
Tongue Remover...................................11
Splitter-Mechanical..............................11
Legend Stamper..
Trim Necks..
Head Breaker..................................... c
Kidney Puller....................,,,,,............3
Leaf Lard Puller................................. 6
Leaf Lard Scraper.................................2
Print-O-Matic Scaler,.............................5
Head Rail-CompleteJob.............................9
Remove Bruises - Udders - Adhesions...............4
Place Hog in Cooler...............................2
Rollerman.........................................2
Skin Heads........................................6
Cheek Chisler and Break...........................6
Trim Head Bones.................................. 6
Trim Scalps.......................................2
Cut Off Heads.....................................3
Operate Hand Singer...............................2
-75-
PORT CUTTING
Coolerman......................................1
Cooler Scaleman................................4
GLt Gam Cord - Mark Ham........................7
Remove Ham.....................................7
FeedDunseth Knife..............................5
Lift Neck Bones................................9
Drop Hog - Remove Jowl and Hanging Tender......5
Band Saw.......................................9
Ham Trimmer....................................9
Butt Trimmer...................................9
Picnic Trimmer.................................9
Butt and PicnicTrimmer.........................9
Mechanical Butt Puller........................13
Belly Ribber..................................11
Back Ribber...................................11
Back Bone Remover..............................9
Belly Trimmer.................................11
Oyster Bone Remover,.,,'.....................  4
Pull and Trim Loins and Backs.................11
PorkTrimmer....................................3
Mechanical Skinner.............................3
Whizzard Knife Operator........................3
Packer and Scaler..............................3
Pork Boner.....................................7
Tenderloin Remover.............................4
Fin Bone Remover...............................4
Mechanical Loin Puller Operator...............13
Remove Ham Trim................................8
Rollerman......................................2
Set Up Pork Cut and Pack.......................4
PORK GRADING AND PACKING
Cut Grader..................................4
Scaler and Packer...........................3
—7$-
Mechanical Skinner Operator......................3
Wrap Cuts (Freezer and Sales)....................2
Checker..........................................7
Deboner Machine Operator.........................4
PORK BONING
Pork Boner......................................7
Mechanical Skinner Operator.....................3
Packer and Scaler...............................3
Truck Scale and Record..........................3
CURING
Pickle Maker...........
Load and Unload Vats....
Tightener and Clipper..
Whizzard Knife Operator
Tree Washer............
Pickle Injector Operator..
7
1
3
3 2
4
FRESH HAM BREAK-UP - INDIVIDUAL OPERATIONS
External Defatting....................
RemoveAitch Bone......................
Open Ham - RemoveAitch Bone...........
Loosen Leg Bone.......................
Remove Tenderloin Fat.................
Internal Defatting....................
Ham Cutter............................
Internal Trimming.....................
Remove Leg Bone.......................
Remove Pinbone and Shank..............
Mechanical Skinner....................
Mechanical Skinner (Special attachment).
5
7
7
7
5
5
5
5
7
7
3
4
-77-
External Trimmer..................................5
Langen Operator...................................5
Set Up Langen and Prepare for Dept. Operations....5
SMOKED MEATS PREPARATION
Smokehouse Tender...............................11
Spare Smokehouse Tender (Hours Worked)..........11
Stuff Visking Product (mechanical)...............5
Stuff Visking Product (manual)...................3
Tightener and Clipper..........................  3
Tipper Tie Operator..............................2
Comb, Hang, Select Bellies.......................2
Stockinette and Hang.............................1
Smokehouse Helper/Cleaner........................2
COOKED AND SLICED HAM DEPARTMENT
Mold Washer...............................1
Cooked Ham Manufacture....................3
SAUSAGE
Hydroflaker Operator............................1
Scale Meat for Batches..........................3
Grinder Operator................................5
Silent Cutter Operator..........................8
Vacuum Mixer Operator...........................4
Stuffer Loader..................................2
Loaf and Bolo Stuffer...........................5
Del and Cook Manufacturer.......................8
Frank-A-Matic Operator and Utility..............5
Bdo Hanger......................................2
Wiener Hanger...................................2
Sausage Stuffer.................................5
-78-
Casing Preparer...................................2
Linker............................................2
Tier..............................................2
Hanger............................................2
Tipper Tie Operator...............................2
Fresh Sausage Packer..............................2
Wiener Packer.....................................2
Wiener Peeler Operator............................3
Frank-A-MaticAttendant............................3
Pack and Record...................................2
Pre-Clip Visking Casings..........................1
Pack To Cartons...................................1
Hy-Cut Operator...................................2
Packer and Scaler- Bulk Wieners...................3
Blender Operator..................................8
Scaler Fresh Sausage..............................2
Blender Operator, Set Up Equipment................8
SLICING AND PACKAGING
Slice and Pack Coolerman........................2
Set Up. Operate and Attend Bacon Slice Equip....4
Bacon Press Operator............................3
Bacon Slice Operator............................3
Pack to Sales...................................3
Helper6/18 Feed Packaging'Machine...............2
Loaf Hauler and Scaler..........................2
902 Machine Operator............................5
Bacon Grader....................................3
Bacon Scaler....................................3
Pack and Record.................................2
Select and Pack Sliced Bacon....................3
Cryovac Machine Operator........................2
Slicer Operators................................2
Feed Packaging Machine
(PostAII Specific Machines)...................2
Pack, Scale and Record..........................3
■79-
Feed Label Machine 902 and 802.................2
Bag Product - Cryovac..........................2
PackCryovac Product............................2
Feed Wiener Chill Unit.........................2
Tend and Operate Warrick Loaders, (Wieners)....2
Snorkel Operator...............................3
Rotomatic Machine Operator (Cryovac)...........5
Make, Stack and Record 802,902 ................2
Operate Wiener Peelers.........................3
Band Saw Operators.............................2
Table Person...................................2
Packto Scales - Scale and Record-Wieners.......3
Set Up, Grade, Band Saw Operators..............4
SHIPPING DOCK- TRUCKS AND FREEZERS
Truck Drivers- Deliveries........................12
Semi Tractor Driver..............................15
Head Freezerman...................................7
Freezerman’s Helper...............................3
Truck Driver’s Helper.............................4
Receiver..........................................7
Checker and Scaler................................7
Warehouse Receiver................................7
Fork Lift Truck Operator..........................4
Truck Jockey......................................5
Load and Unload Dress Hogs........................3
Elevator Operator.................................2
High Lift Operator (Freezers Only)................6
Sort and Load Mixed Merchandise...................5
Assistant Warehouseman Receiver...................5
Select, Scale & Record “Costco”...................3
Gather, Sort& Repair Pallets......................2
—30—
PLANT MARKET
Retail Cut Fabricator..............................11
Packer and Scaler..................................3
PLANT ADMINISTRATION
Janitor...................................
Fill Plant Orders - Storeroom.............
Storekeeper...............................
Laundryman................................
First Aid Attendant (Min. Requirements)
(Male/Female).....15 cents over regular rate
Night Clean Up - One Year Contract........
2
3
4
5
6
OTHERS
Minor Repairman..................................7
Plant Greaser and Oiler..........................6
Helper...........................................4
Wash and Service Trucks..........................3
Knife Sharpener.................................11
RAP MAT SHIPPING
Open Order Picker..................................10
Costco Order Picker.................................7
Freezer Order Picker................................7
Order Picker........................................7
Gross Scale Controller.............................14
A/Gross Scale Controller...........................11
Flow Rack Stocker...................................4
Co-ordinator.......................................11
Addresser.........................................4
Product Supplier..................................4
-81
BlocRedi Order Picker.............................7
Sort and Load Mixed Merchandise...................5
Order Pickers-Stocktaker..........................7
Sort Cartons and Palletize........................2
CAFETERIA
General Help
Cashier....
Cook.......
0
,1
.7
NOTE:	A person posting a job with a one year
contract is:
(A)	Exempted from any layoff during one year period.
(B)	Excluded from bidding onto another job during the one year period.
The one year contract is effective from the date of the awarding of the posting. •
Subject to six (6) week qualifying period.
Night Clean Up - No Contract.......................4
Laundry Attendant, Presserand Mender...............2
ENGINEERS
Regular Shift Engineer...............................38
(Minimum 2nd Class Steam and Refrigeration)
‘Regular Shift Engineer..............................36
(Minimum 3rd Class Steam and Refrigeration)........34
Fireman (4th Class Steam Papers).....................16
-82-
Refrigeration Man....................................9
Relief Engineer and Maintenance Man.................34
Regular Shift Engineer..............................31
(4th Class Steam and Refrigeration)
MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE SKILLED TRADES
Instrumentation technician...................
‘Journeyman Welder...........................
‘Journeyman Millwright.......................
‘Journeyman Pipefitter.......................
‘Journeyman Carpenter........................
Welder.......................................
Electrician (Journeyman).....................
Pipefitter (Journeyman)......................
Industrial Mechanic/Millwright (First Class).
Industrial Mechanic/Millwright (Second Class).
Carpenter....................................
Painter......................................
Garage Mechanic..............................
Scale Mechanic...............................
High Pressure Welder.........................
(For Time Spent Only)
Bricklayer-Cement Finisher-Plasterer.........
40
40
40
36
36
36
40
35
36 18
35 30
36 35 47
33
(A five (5) bracket premium shall be paid to all maintenance journeymen who obtain their second ticket at the request of the Company or who possess a second ticket which the Company deems to be of benefit and who is utilized by the Company on a full time dual ticketed basis.)
‘Effective April 1, 1996
-83-
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Re: Long Term Disability
Effective June 1st, 1983, the Company will arrange to have an insurance carrier provide a Long Term Disability Plan which will include the following provisions;
Full time employees actively at work on the effectivedate are eligible for the Plan on attainment of ONE year's seniority. Employees absent from work on the date they would otherwise have been eligible must return to work and satisfactorily complete two months full time work to be eligible.
Long Term Disability benefits will be payable where an employee is unable to perform any employment for remuneration or profit solely by reason of total disability through sickness or accident. The sole determination of cases qualifying for benefits will be made by the Insurance Company based upon continuing medical evidence of such disability as it considers satisfactory. To qualify, any case involving alcohol or drug related conditions will require active supervision by and continuing treatment from a rehabilitation centre or a provincially designated institution. Any case involving mental illness will require continued treatment under an approved specialist, and will only be paid in cases of severe conditions involving personality disorganization (psychotic conditions). An employee in receipt of Long Term Disability benefitswill be subject to the provisions of Article 11-6 of the Collective Agreement.
The amount of benefit will be $1,100 per month less any benefit for which the employee is eligible under the Canada Pension Plan Disability Benefit, Worker's Compensation or other Government or Government
—84—
sponsored plan, excluding any pre-existing disability benefit. Effective April 1/95 the long-term disability plan will be amended to provide a disability benefit of $1,300 per month.
The Employee will be presumed eligible for such government benefits until satisfactory evidence is presented that his application for them has been denied.
An Employee in receipt of a benefit under the Company’s Pension Plan cannot be in receipt of a benefit under the Long Term Disability Plan.
The benefit will commence after the Employee has been absent due to the disability for one year or after his sick pay entitlement has expired whichever is earlier, and will be payable until recovery, actual retirement date, normal retirement date, or death, whichever comes first.
Should an Employee return to work after collecting Long Term Disability Benefits and subsequently again cease work as a result of the same or a related disability, the benefit will recommence without a waiting period provided the disability recurred within a year of the Employee’s return to work: otherwise the Employee will be subject to the normal waiting period before the benefit commences.
Where an Employee returns to work under an approved rehabilitation program of up to 24 months, the benefit will be reduced by 50% of any earnings, provided the total gross income from all sources does not exceed 90% of the pre-disability normal gross wages.
No benefit will be paid for intentionally self-inflicted injuries or for disabilities arising from a declared or undeclared act of war, participation in a riot or insurrection, employment with another employer, or commission of a crime.
-85-
Effective June 1,1983 the disability retirement clause In the Company'sPenslon Plan will be removed. However, die benefits under the clause will still be available for up to one year thereafter for those employees who were eligible for the disability retirement provisions bat who were not eligible for Long Term Disability due to absence from work on the effective date.
-86-