BETWEEN
FLETCHER'S FINE FOODS
LTD.
8335 Fraser Street Vancouver, B. C. V5X 3X8
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
A.F.L. - C.I.O. - C.L.C.
LOCAL 283P
5261 Lana Street Burnaby, B. C. V5H 2H4
JUNE 1, 1984-MARCH
INDEX
Article
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
vn
VIII
x
XI
XII
XIII
XIV XV
XVI
XVII
XVIII
XIX
Page
General_________________________
Bargaining Agency_______________
Management______________________
Gender__________________________
Wages __________________________
Thirty-seven Hour Guarantee — Hours of Work and Overtime —
Statutory Holidays--------------
Seniority ______________________
Vacations ______________________
Grievance Procedure_____________
Safety and Health---------------
Separation Allowance -----------
Work Methods -------------------
Contracting Out_________________
Part-Time Employees ____________
Leave cf Absences ______________
General ________________________
Duration 'of Agreement _________
Job Rates - Appendix A__________
Bracket Values and Labour Rates
-	Appendix B ________________
-	Appendix C ----------------
1
1
3
3
4 6 8 13 16 21 26 28 29
32
33
34
35 37 44 46
48
49
Letters of Understanding Long Term Disability	49
Part-Time Workers	62
Pension Plan	53
Knife Sharpening	64.
New Employees _ . -	- 54
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and concluded at Vancouver, British Columbia, this 7th day cf January, A.D. 1985,
BETWEEN:
FLETCHER’S FINE FOODS LTD,, 8385 Fraser Street, Vancouver, B. C. (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, INTERNATIONAL UNION, A.F.L. - C.I.O, - C.L.C., LOCAL 283P 5261 Lane Street, Burnaby, B. C. V5H 2H4 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE I — GENERAL
One of the main purposes of this Agreement is to maintain in full force and effect a harmonious relationship between the Management and the Employees. No business can progress or prosper unless a mutual feeling of respect and confidence exists between the Management and the Organization.
ARTICLE II — BARGAINING AGENCY
Section 1. The Company or anyone authorized to act for it recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency as certified
1
by the Labour Relations Board foi: the Province of British Columbia, for its employees covered by this Agreement and hereby consents and agrees to negotiate with the Union, or any Committee thereof in any and all matters affecting the relationship between the said employer and employees set forth in this Agreement, who are members of the Union and who become members of the Union, which is chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers, International Union, A.F.L, -C.I.O. - C.L.C., Local 2S3P, looking towards a peaceful and amicable settlement of any differences that may arise between the Company and the Union.
Section 2. (a) The Company agrees to retain in its employ, within the bargaining uAit as outlined in Section 1, Article II, of this Agreement, only members in good standing. The Company shall be free to hire new employees who are not members of the yj3^n7'',Brovided said nonmembers, whether/mart timV nr full time employees, shall be eligible toy membership in the Union after attaining__sejikJrity. /fypy
(b) The Company agrees to provide each new employee at the time of employment with a form letter outlining to the new employee his or her responsibility in regard to Union Membership, and to provide the Union in writing with the name and address of each employee to whom they have presented the form letter, along with the employee’s date of hire, the contents of the letter to be such that it is acceptable to the Company. The Company further agrees to provide the Chief Steward of the Union, once a month, with a list containing names of all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous month.
2
Section 3, (a) The Company agrees to deduct sy* from the wages <± each employee upon proper y authorization from the employee affected, such fines, assessments and initiation fees as are [ authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. Tne regular monthly dues will be deducted from each bi-weekly pay cheque, and the amount of each deduction will be arrived at by annualizing the deductions and dividing by twenty-six (26),
(b) The Company will procure from each new and probationary employee the necessary membership applications and membership in the Union will be granted r‘ “	---
seniority.
(c) Monies deducted during be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than the fifteenth (15th) day of the month for which dues are deducted and accompanied by a printed statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions were made.
ARTICLE III - MANAGEMENT
The management of the plant and direction of the working forces including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just cause, and the methods, processes and means of production or handling are vested exclusively in the Company, provided that this will not be used for tne purpose of discrimination against any employee or the Union, or to avoid ^ y,* provisions of this Agreement	^
ARTICLE IV - GENDER '
Except where specifically stated to the contrary, provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all employees in the bargaining unit.
3
ARTICLE V — WAGES
V
Section 1. The. wage rates to be paid employees are detailed in Appendices “B” and "C” J
of this agreement.
Section 2. (a) Full time employees whose •S&Jlpk"6 calls for work on calendar Saturdays tfta, SUfidays or Statutory Holidays mentioned ,niH BH§ Agreement shall be paid one and one-half times their regular rate for ail-schsduled ■'"lii at regular rates for the purpose of the If&lfee. Such premiums shall not be con-as part of the employee’s basic rate.
(b) The increments between brackets will remain at eight cents (8c.) for the duration of this agreement.
Section 3. When a qualified employee is required temporarily to fill a higher rated job, he shall receive the higher rate while doing but if required temporarily to fill a lower
/uso, but it required temporarily to till a lower Aj, / rated job he shall receive his higher rate. A V / qualified employee working fifty percent or /Tmore of his time on the highest rated job shall / be paid that rate.
Section i, (a) Employees shall receive the applicable job rates provided for in the wage schedule for the job or jobs they perform when they become qualified.
(b) The word ‘qualified’ as used in this Agreement shall be interpreted to mean ability to regularly perform the job without instruction or assistance. Except by agreement with the Union, the period of qualifying shall not exceed six (6) weeks, after which the rate shall be / paid.
v. (c) Instruction or assistance in training any *Jy employee may be given by a supervisory officer
J*
of the Company or by an employee designated by the Plant Superintendent or Department Supervisor.	.	,
Section 5. (a) If	’ack of work, an
employee is transferred for a period of less than twelve (121 weeks to work where the job ,r rate is lower, ne shall retain his regular joby/s rate while so doing. At the expiration of twelve (12) weeks the lower job rate shall
(b) If an employee is transferred to a lower i L rated job on a job posting or at the employee's f ^ request, then the lower rate of pay shall apply i J/&nmediately.
' »‘j Section 6 (a) An eft shift premium of thirty-ist^five cents (35) per hour will be paid for all / hours worked between six p.m. (6) and six a.m/5 /[!
(6)'	PM
(b) An employee whose schedule calls for ' work to commence at any time other than between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. inclusive, shall receive an off shift premium of thirty-five cents (35) per hour for all hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. and for hours in excess of his scheduled hours occurring immediately after S:00 a.m.
Section 7. The Company shall show on the pay envelope of each employee the hours worked regularly, those at time and one-half and those at double time, the employee's rate and total monies earned for each pay period along with a complete list of all deductions made by the Company. The Company agrees to distribute the pay on Company time during regular working hours.
Section 8, An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours in the scheduled shift
S
in which the accident occurs if, as a result of such injury he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department; but, if such is not
possible, then by a Company representative. The Company agrees to provide mmstwiaiinn for
medical treatment to employees as a result cf a serious accident. The Company agrees that the intent of this clause would mean a ride to and from the hospital. In the event the employee chooses to go directly home from the hospital, the Company agrees to reimburse, upon presentation of a valid receipt, an amount up to the cost to transport the employee to the hospital. ~f *	1
:ost to transport the erar
Section 9. Attached to this Agreement shall be a wage schedule covering all employees in the bargaining unit.
lot
Section 10. Employees working in the plant performing a job that requires them to work for more than one (1) continuous hour in temperatures below 2 degrees Celsius shall receive a premium cf twenty-five cents (25c.) per hour for all hours so worked.
w
/ 4ARTICLE VI — THIRTY-SEVEN HOUR I '	GUARANTEE
The Company agrees to guarantee a minify! mum c£ thirty-seven (37) hours per week ot a _ pay in lieu of work exclusive cf overtime and u ' night shift premium, except as herein provided.
Section L An employee who is absent from work for all personal reasons on any day that his gang works, shall have his guarantee for the week concerned reduced by the number of hfburs missed by such absence.,
6
Section 2, An employee who is excused from work for part of a day, for any personal reason, shall have his guarantee reduced for the week concerned by the number of hours of work which he missed by such absence.
Section 3. An employee who starts after the first of the payroll week shall be guaranteed for such starting week, that fraction of the guarantee which the number of hours remaining of the payroll week is of forty hours.
Section 4. Employees with seniority on layoff notice shall be entitled to their guaranteed payment for the week in which notice is given. Should notice extend into subsequent week, then the employee shall he entitled to their_ guaranteed hours of pay for each day of their notice period.
Section 5, When it is apparent that a gang is going to work less than the guaranteed hours in any one week, it is permissible to use all of the gang on other work in order to avoid the guaranteed time penalty, reasonable consideration being given to change in working conditions, ability and seniority.
Section 6. The guarantee shall be the same in the holiday weeks as all others. Pay received for any public holidays or in the case of off shift days in lieu of shall be considered as earnings for the purpose of calculating the guarantee, unless such pay is for hours which fall outside an employee’s schedule.
Section 7. In order to meet the dema the business the Company may hire part-time workers excluded from the provisions of this Article for work of twenty-four (24) hours or
less in a payroll week, provided the Union Is notified when the employees are hired. Such part-time workers will be the first employees subject to layoff in the ei>eat cf a layoff occurring in the plant.
ARTICLE VII — HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 1. The normal work week shall be eight (8) hours per day, fprty (40) hours per week, Monday through Friday. The schedule j of hours is to be posted on the bulletin board and agreed to by both parties.
>^|\0 Section 2, The schedule of hours referred /tfu/ to in Section 1 shall be regular schedules providing for regular steady shifts, not swing shifts. Swing shifts shall apply only by a mutual agreement with the Union Committee and the Management.
Section 3. In compliance with Section 2 it is understood and agreed by both parties to this Agreement that the creation of steady shifts will not interfere with the efficiency of deparinieAt or plant operations.
f JjWction 4. (a) All time worked before or
V/Aefter the above ‘schedule of hours shall be paid ** for at one and one-half (liVSs) times the employee’s regular rate of pay, If by necessity an hourly rated employee is required to work in excess of 11 continuous hours, he shall be paid double time for such additional hours.
(b)	The Union agrees to co-operate with the Management in getting necessary overtime Work done on a voluntary basis.
8 i


ssary overt
i/fr-
Ib
(c) When overtime is necessary, the Union Steward of the department concerned shall be notified. The employee posted on the job for which overtime is required shall	,
option of working the overtime. In the event 7 this employee does not wish to work the over;’ time, the supervisor will, then canvass the other employees within th^U department as to their individual wishes. This canvass is to be conducted in the order of senior qualified person, to junior qualified person.
If any qualified person is inadvertently missed in this rotation, he shall be given the first opportunity the next time overtime is required in the department. <
In the event the /necessary number of employees are not obtained within the department, the company inay-aBdsK employees from other departments "xgTthe plan^ on the basis of senior qualified emplojySr^vSilable at the time overtime is requested.
Where overtime on cff shifts is required, the company shall discuss the matter with the available Shop Steward and make the call-ins.
Section 5.	(a) Overtime rates of one and •
one-half (1%) times the regular hourly rates: shall be paid for any time worked in excess of the scheduled hours as agreed to in this / Article, up to three (3) hours in any one day* and double time thereafter.
(b) Double the regular hourly rates shall be paid to all employees for work performed on ' Sunday, except where the work regularly falls*, on Sunday, in which latter case the employees shall be paid double the regular hourly rate iM he works on his day offin lieu of Sunday. >
r<*h
9

r.
(c)	One and one-half (1%) times the ployees' regular rate shall be paid for the four (4) hours of work performed on a Satur day and double time thereafter.
em- <ff first ^> itur- /
/> /
(cl) Part-time employees shall receive a pre-'mium of 20c. per hour for hours! worked at regular rates on calendar Saturdays and a premium of 30c. per hour for hours worked regular rates on calendar Sundays. " ‘	'
Section 6. Employees when called
%/OX
for Tvork
shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay ior mat /iday at their regular job rate. Under this pro-> '/vision workers shall not leave of their own
'accord when work is available. For work performed on Saturdays, Sundays or statutory holidays, the full time employee shall receive the guaranteed four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rate.
Section 7. Any hourly rated employee who, ti A^-after leaving the Company's premises, is^s fr, specially called in at any time outside his nor-// mal working hours shall be through when the/TV /Emergency is over, but .shall nevertheless be * / paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the ap. j plicable overtime rates.
'( ” Section 8. Employees shall not be required, except in cases of emergency, to work more than five (5) hours without the first meal period and five (5) hours without the second meal period. The second meal period shall be one-half (Vs) hour on Company time and the meal shall be"~gupplied We of charge by the Company. If due fo circumstances the Company does not provide a meal a^cash equivalent will be added to his gross eariiTtfgS-fSr that fiscal week. The truck drivers shall provide a voucher for reimbursement purposes. The
meal allowance referred to will he Five Dollars.
Section 9. Employees required to work more than five (5) hours without a meal period shall be compensated at one and one-half (1%) times the regular hourly rate for all time worked in excess of five (5) hours until a meal period is granted/Fmployees engaged in continuous shift operations shall be exempt from this clause^^J but shall be entitled to a lunch period of thirty (30) minutes on Company time/In the event city's an earlier than ndrrnal start the Company shall n; have the right to change the time of the meal r' period in order to avoid the double penalty.
Section 10. (a) Continuous shift operations shall be given forty-eight (48) hours notice of change of shifts except in an emergency. Employees who because of an emergency are required to change shifts shall be paid the applicable overtime rate until the expiration of the 48 hour notice.
(b) Single shift employees shall be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of change of shift except in an emergency. Employees who because of an emergency are required to change shifts shall be paid the applicable overtime rates until the expiration of the twenty-four (24) hours.
Section 11. (a) The Company will allow the employees reasonable time for sharpening of tools. knives, etc. This time is to be scheduled and handled by the Foreman of the department, the same as any other work assignment. A qualified operator shall be available as needed to sharpen knives of those desiring this service.
11
r
(b)	The Company shall furnish all knives, scabbards, steels, whetstones, triers and hooks which it considers necessary for the performance of the work by the employees and shall establish regulations in respect thereto. The Company agrees to maintain its present practice of furnishing heavy tools. All tools furnished shall remain Company property.
. c
% / a
U
Section 12, A fifteen minute (15) rest period will be given twice each shift, midway before lunch and midway after lunch provided that each work period is of not more than two and one-half (2;%) hours. It is agreed that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the day. It is mutually agreed that rest periods shall not be abused.	.	//"!
I 0 /
Section 13. The Company mid the Union
agree that in the event c£ a work shortage, ways and means will be discussed in an attempt to shorten the working hours of the week, m prefer nee to laying off of employees.
0 Section 14. If
female employee is
working in the plant they
shall receive exactly the same rate of wages
£
?s male employees, if they are performing the/f ' " .........................................e \
task usually or previously performed by a male employee, _grgSidifl&- however, that the em-nlovee is as qualified to do the same work and ls'pnysically capable of doing same.
en-
Section 15. When other than emergency overtime is to be worked, every reasonable effort will be made to rehire employees who may be on layoff status in the department where overtime is to be worked.
12
Section 16. A holiday shall be an employee’s regular shift on a holiday.
Section 17. Whenever an employee performs work outside his regular schedule he need not be required to take time off to bring his hours down to the standard working week.
ARTICLE VIII — STATUTORY HOLIDAY4
Section 1. Ten (10) statutory holidays shall! be recognized, and a regular hourly paid em-^ ployce, who is not exempt from the weeklvrVi pay guarantee as set out in Section 1 ol Articled/-VUdrereof, and-who has earnings on the payroll ' in the plant week containing the holiday, shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his job, rate.
If an employee works on any such holiday or in the case of off-shift the day in lieu of, he shall receive in addition, pay for hours actually worked on the holiday (or day substituted in the event of the holiday fallir.g on, Sunday), at two (2) times his job rate.
The statutory holidays referred to herein are :
New Year’s Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving	Day
/(^Victoria Day	Remembrance	Day
First Monday in August Boxing Day
and any other holiday declared by either the Federal or Provincial Governments.
Employees absent on the regularly scheduled work days next preceding or next following any public holiday shall not be entitled to pay for such holiday unless the absentee received permission from the Company to be absent or was absent because of sickness or for "	)d
Dominion Day
Christmas Day
13
cause arising from circumstances beyond his control. The Company will advise the Union in writing of such deductions.
Section 2. In the event of a holiday falling on Sunday it shall be observed on the day substituted by the Dominion Government. If the Dominion or Provincial Governments proclaim some other day to be generally observed hourly rated employees required to work on it shall for the hours so worked receive three (3) times their regular hourly rates provided that if such day is in substitution for a holiday hereinafter specified, the penalty rate shall not apply to both days. II a paid Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday, the Friday prior to the Saturday shall be observed as the holiday. If a paid Statutory Holiday falls on a Sunday, the Monday immediately following the Sunday shall be ob-
W7
Section 3. Any employee having fifteen (15) days accumulated service with the Company, who is laid off prior to a recognized holiday in the same payroll week in which such holiday occurs shall be entitled to receive pay for such holiday.
served as the holiday.
Section 4, An employee who is absent from work and receiving benefits for reason of sickness, compensable on non-compensable accident, during the period in which a recognized paid statutory holiday occurs, shall receive the difference between his compensation or Weekly Indemnity pay and his regular rate of pay with limitation as defined in the Weekly Indemnity Plan.
14
When a recognized paid statutory holiday falls during the 3 day waiting period for Weekly Indemnity benefits, an employee eligible for these benefits shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate of pay for each such statutory holiday.
Any employee who is no longer eligible for Weekly Indemnity benefits and is still disabled shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for any statutory holiday following within three (3) calendar months from the onset of such disability.
Section 5. If any cf the paid holidays referred to in this Article occur while an employee is on leave cf absence to attend Union functions he shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate.
Section 6, Effective January 1, 1981, an addi-. tional floating statutory holiday was granted^ to all employees with seniority. This statutory is to be granted at the discretion of management, but it is understood that the months June through September are the most likely months in which no employees would be accommodated should they request their entitlement.
It is also further understood that the preferable days of Monday or Friday will be granted upon request, but again at the Company discretion.
There is to be no carry-over from one calendar year to the next and thus all entitlements must be taken prior to December 31st of each year.	/<? f (f / 'tb&f7
ARTICLE IX - SENIORITY
' Section 1. Seniority shall be defined as the length of an employee’s service within the bargaining unit, calculated as the elapsed time from the day he was first employed, unless his seniority was broken, in which event such calculation shall be from the date he returned to work following the last break in his seniority.
Section 2. Employees shall not acquire anyO seniority rights until they have accumulated fifty (50) days worked service, at which time/Cy they are entitled to plant seniority from the!® (AVoriginal day of employment; provided the fifty days worked have been accumulated within six (6) consecutive calendar months. ■,
Section 3. Seniority lists shall be revised and brought up-to-date every two (2) months and the Company shall supply sufficient copies to the Union.
Section 4.	(a) In the bargaining unit the
-ffllin^p|.yaeanc:ie& shall be based on ability and seniority. Ability being sufficient after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. A reasonable trial shall not exceed two months..	—
(b) Vacancies within the bargaining unit shall A , I be posted for five (5) working days to giveT,y y! employees with seniority ample time to apply. / C h fj In the case that no application is received for A' any posting, the vacancy shall be filled by the ■ junior qualified employee available until the junior employee in the plant is trained for the , job posting. Transfers to jobs will be made i / within ten (10) working days from the date the /} posting was awarded with the provision that wherever this proves impossible, suitable
I®
arrangements will be arrived at after consultation with the Union. An employee who was absent when a vacancy is filled shall receive equal consideration provided the department steward notifies the Company in writing that an employee in his department wishes to apply for the vacancy.
There shall be nlo more than three (3) job postings per employee per year unless special exemption is granted by management.
'In the event an employee fails to qualify for a job posting they shall be transferred to help qualified pool.
Section 5. Seniority service records shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited and there shall be no obligation to rehire when an employee:
(a)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the bargaining unit, the Company, or is discharged for just cause.
(b)	After being laid off by the Company, fails to report for work when recalled or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The present method of contact, by telephone, and registered letter to the employee at the last known address shall constitute a reasonable effort on the part of the Company, and if within two (2) working days after receipt of such notice, the employee fails to report for duty, or advise the Company that he will report within five (5) working days, the Company shall be entitled to assume that the said employee left the Company service voluntarily.
17
(c)	Has been laid cff for a period longer than .the time allowed in the following schedule:
Length of Seniority	l£rc^±i Of
at Date of	Allowable Tune
:	Separation	Off Payroll
Section 6. Absence from work because of
sickness, compensable or non-compensable accident or leave of absence, shall not break continuity of seniority rights and an employee shall return to the position held prior to the absence or to one of equal rating. This is provided he is able to perform the work that is available within the customary trial period of not more than two (2) months.
Less than one year ■One year and over
One year
Two years maximum
4
Section 7. In the case of reduction in the working force the order of layoff shall be as
follows:
(a)	Probationary employees, i.e., less than fifty (50) days worked.
(b)	Those with plant seniority.
those with
In the latter case, seniority shall be the determining factor provided the senior _ operator, after a reasonable time to qualify, is capable of doing the work performed by an employee with less seniority except where immediate essential qualifications are necessary for the efficient operation of the plant. In such cases the Company will discuss the matter with the Union.
Section 8. (a) In cases of increases in the 1 UHv. "	................ '
*
. i working forces, rehiring shall be in the reverse \ order to that cf layoffs. The Company shall
“	D'
advise the Union when a layoff is about to take place and shall give the Union a list of employees to be laid off or rehired. In cases where it is necessary to secure workers in less time than the required notice, the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee may recall the next senior employee and so on down the list until the vacancies are filled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time, he shall be given the work for which the next , senior employee was recalled.	Mhib
(b) In case of layoff, other than in /he I ' event of emergencies herein referred to, employees shall be given one (1) working day’s notice for every ■compteted—six (6)—months
y
seniority, with a 'minimum notice ot two (2)
working days. In the case of an emergency due to causes beyond the Company’s control which results in the closing of a part or whole of the a plant, employees shall be given one (1) caten-IX/tlar day’s notice for every completed six (6) i/'ymonths’ seniority with a maximum notice of y^five (5) working days’ notice and with a mini- ‘f/* mum notice of two (2) working days but such two days shall be exclusive of Saturday and Sunday. If the Company determines that additional work, not to exceed three (3) days is available at the time any layoff is to become effective then the notice shall be deemed to be extended for the period represented by such additional days of work.
(c) Employees with seniority may be temporarily recalled for ten (10) working days or less, as casual help with no layoff notice given, provided that this shall not be used as discrimination to any employee, and provided that the lemployees and the Union are informed that such work is of a temporary nature.
19

Section 8. When it is necessary to permanently transfer employees to lower rated jobs because of a shortage of work, the employees with the lowest seniority will be required to take the transfer. In the case <£ temporary transfers the basis shall be that of the junior qualified employee.
Section 10. In cases of gang reduction or increases, an employee may elect to take a layoff or continue to be laid off if it is mutually agreed that the work which is available could prove detrimental to the health of the employee.
Section 11, Employees shall notify the Company at once of all changes of address and telephone numbers, temporary or permanent. Failure of the employee to do so will relieve the Company of any responsibilities they may have under this Agreement.
Section 12, Upon an employee accepting promotion outside the bargaining unit, the Company will inform the Chief Steward of the Union by letter as to the date of acceptance. Said employee shall be allowed six (6) months in which to prove himself capable of filling the position concerned. If such employee does not qualify within such time, he shalt report to the help qualified pool without prejudice and loss of seniority.
Section 13. Employees, may in case of ill-health, be transferred from one department to another, as may be mutually agreed upon.
Section 14. Disabled or handicapped employees will be assigned to jobs wherever possible without regard to seniorit .............rates
agreed upon.
20
ARTICLE X — VACATIONS
Section JL Vacation eligibility requirements are based Upon credited service. The period January 1st through December 31st shall be considered the vacation year.
SectionS. First vacation -An employee becomes eligible for vacation for the first time after 1 year when the employment records show the following:
.(a) They have attained seniority within six months from date cf hire;
and
(b) Have not been off the payroll for more than sixty (60) consecutive clays,
Payment for this first vacation entitlement will be calculated at four percent (4%) of the gross earnings in the calendar year.
In the event the employee is off the payroll for longer than sixty (60) consecutive days, the vacation date for purposes of this section becomes the date of re-hire.
Section 3. Subsequent vacations - An employee who has received his first vacation, IS thereafter eligible to receive subsequent annual vacations, any time on or after January 1 in the succeeding vacation year. This is providing he is currently on the active payroll, and since receiving his last vacation, he has at all times been on the active or benefit payroll.
Section 4. Length of Vacations - Vacations with pay to employees shall be granted as follows:
21
Length of Service
After 1 year After 4 years After 10 years After 20 years After 25 years
Section 5. Method
B weeks
3	weeks 0 *4 0 3
4	weeks tooy
5	weeks so£>S
6	weeks
Calculating Vacation
Pay: 1st Year - Calculated at four percent (4%) of earnings between date of hiring and December 31 cf the same year, but not payable until reaching first anniversary date.
Subsequent Entitlements - Pay for each week of holiday entitlement shall be on the basis of forty (40) hours pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate or two percent (2%) of gross earnings for each week of holidays, whichever is the greater. The calculation of the percentage amount is based on the gross earnings in the previous calendar year.
Section 6. Completion c£ required service after January I : Employees who, after January 1 and prior to the end of the calendar year, reach the service required to entitle them to an additional week of vacation, in accordance with the vacation scale set out in Section 4 above, will become eligible for such additional week of vacation on completion of the required years of service.
Section 7. (a) Employees absent for reasons of sickness, compensable cr non-compensable accident, who return to work following these phases within one year, shall nevertheless be entitled to annual vacations as set out in Article X, Section 4, and pay fqr such vacation shall be provoded for in Section 7 (t>).
22
(b) In case of sickness, compensable and noncompensable accident certified by a practicing physician, an employee, upon his return to the service of the Company, shall receive service credit for each week cf such absence, not to exceed twenty-six (26) weeks, as if earnings had been received. The above credits shall be confined to one year’s vacation rights on the basis of forty (40) hours per week for the twenty-six week period at his regular rate of pay.
Section 8. Employees whose service with the Company terminates before the end of any vacation year, shall receive compensation therefor, in accordance with the provisions of the “Annual Holidays Act.
Section 9. Vacation periods shall be arranged subject to the demands of the business, but a sincere effort will be made to arrange vacations at a time convenient to all in accordance with the seniority of the employees respectively,
Section 10. If a paid statutory holiday falls within the employee’s vacation period, the Company will allow the employee concerned a compensatory day’s holiday with pay.
Section 11. Employees with ten (10) years or more seniority with the Company will be entitled to their full vacation during the summer months every four (4) years. On the basis of twenty-five (25) percent of those eligible in each year in order of seniority.
Section 12. An employee eligible for vacation who is laid-off because of a reduction in work force shall he allowed pay for the vacation for which he has qualified, An employee who has not become eligible for his first vacation and
23
who is laid-off shall be allowed pay in lieu of vacation in accordance with the applicable vacation laws. Such employees may leave their vacation pay with the company for a period not exceeding six (6) months or until the end <± the then current vacation year, whichever first occurs.
Examples of Vacation Entitlements New Employee
Employee hired February 15, 1984.
February 15, 1985 - 2 weeks vacation, with
gross earn-
pay bashed on four percent (4%) cf gr mgs between February 15, 1984 ancf December
31, 1984. Time must be taken prior to December 31, 1985.
January 1, 1986 - 2 weeks paid vacation or four percent (4%) of gross earnings for the calendar year 1985, whichever is greater. Time must he taken between January 1, 1986 and December 31, 1986.
January 1, 1987 - 2 weeks paid vacation oc four percent (4%) of gross earnings for the calendar year 1986, whichever is greater. Time must be taken between January 1, 1987 and December 31, 1987.
January 1, 1988 - 2 weeks paid vacation or four percent (4%) of gross earnings for the calendar year 1987, whichever is greater. Time must be taken between January 1, 1988 and Decmber 31, 1988.
February 15, 1988 - 1 weeks additional paid vacation or two percent (2%) of gross earnings for the calendar year 1987, whichever is greater Time must be taken between February 15, 1988 and December 31, 1988.
24
January 1, 1989 - 3 weeks paid vacation or six percent (6%) of gross earnings, whichever is greater. Time mu sit be taken between January 1, 1989 and December 31, 1989.
The above principle applies to any newly hired employee. The only differences would he that the first entitlement would not be until his 1st anniversary date, and the four percent (4%) calculation would be from date cf hire to December 31 of the year of hire.
Examples of Vacation Entitlements
Present Employee
Date of hire - June 1, 1980
January 1, 1985 - 3 weeks vacation, with pay calculated at six percent (6%) of gross earnings between June 1, 1984 and December 31, 1984. Time must be taken between January 1, 1985 and llecemDer 31, iU8t>.
January 1, 1986 - 3 weeks paid vacation or six percent (6%) of gross earnings for the calendar year 1985, whichever is greater. Time musit be taken between January 1, 1986~ahd ucceniDer .it, 1986.
The above principle can be applied no matter what the anniversary date is, Tne only dilter-ence is that the calculation of the percentage amount as of January 1, 1985 will only be on earnings between anniversary date in 1984 and Deceniber 31, of 1984.	*
ARTICLE ,XI — GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Should differences arise between the Union or its employee members and the Company as to the manner and application of the provisions
25
of this Agreement, the Union will not authorize, promote, direct, condone or encourage any strike, stoppage or suspension of work, any slowdown or other restriction of production or interference with work in or about the Company’s plant or premises, nor will employees take part in any such action.
The Company agrees not to lock out employees during the term c£ this Agreement. An earnest effort will be made to settle all matters promptly in the following manner:
When an employee is suspended, dismissed, or given written discipline the Company shall have a Union representative present at the time of such action.
Section 1. Shop Stewards may initiate discussions with the supervisors on any potential grievances within their departments. If this action does not solve the matter, a representative of the Union will be allowed to further investigate. In the event that either a Union Steward or a Union representative must leave his job or department in connection with the matter, he shall first notify his supervisor as to what department he is going to and give an explanation why he is going. They must report to the supervisor in charge of the department they wish to enter before contacting any employee in said department.
Section 2. Step 1: The employee shall first take the question up with his department steward and his department supervisor at the same time. ‘JQ}/
Section 3. Step 2. If the case is not settled, then it shall be handled between the Chief Steward and the department steward where the
2C
grievance was initiated, with or without the aggrieved employee and the plant Superintendent, or his designee.
Section 4, Step 3, In the event that no conclusion is reached in the two (2) preceding steps, a meeting shall be scheduled between the Grievance Committee and the Company. An outside Union representative may attend this meeting. Also, the aggrieved employee may attend to present his evidence.
Section 5. All grievances after Step 1 shall be in writing, and when a settlement is reached it shall be final and binding and signed by both parties.
Section 6. If an employee is dismissed for any reason and feels that he has been unjustly dismissed, he shall within three (3) working days from receipt of notice of dismissal, notify the Grievance Committee. The Grievance Committee will in turn notify the Company on the same day they receive such notice from the employee,
The dismissal irTquestion then shall constitute a grievance and shall be de^lt with as such, beginning at the third step.	cTls/^
Section 7. IF subsequently it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he shall be reinstated to his former position and shall be compensated for any benefits or lost time. The rate to be used for lost time is his applicable rate of pay.
Section 8. There shall be time limits of two 12) working days between each step of the grievance procedure, unless changed by mutual agreement.
27
Section 9. All grievances shall be taken up on Company time during regular working hours,
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
Section 1. A Grievance Committee of four (4) who shall be regular employees of the Company, shall be elected by the Union, in a manner determined by them, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel f this Committee. Grievances shall be taken up at such times agreeable to both parties.
Section 2. Where the foregoing procedure for the settlement of disputes has been employed, and the dispute remains unsettled, the dispute shall be referred to an Arbitration Committee consisting of three (3) members, one to be appointed by the Union, one by the Company and the third who shall act as Chairman to be mutually agreed upon by the other two. If agreement cannot be reached within one (1) week as to the appointment of a third member, he shall be appointed by the Minister c£ Labour for the Province cf British Columbia. A decision of the majority of the Arbitration Committee shall be deemed to be a decision of the Committee. In reaching its decision the Committee shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement. Decisions rendered shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned. The Company and the Union agree to bear an equal share of expense incurred, if any, by reason_ of employment cf a third member of an Arbitration Committee.
ARTICLE XII - SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section 1, The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of all employees during the hours of their employ-
28
ment. Protective devices and all other
,	----------- — ----- equip- ,
ment ueemEa necessary to properly protect
employees from injury_shall be provided by the,i(? Comnanv. First aid shall ne avaiiacfe~fcrf~~em-t^
the Federal and Provincial
ployees as per regulations.
Section 2. Protective devices and other safety equipment provided by the Company and agreed to by the Union sha,ll be used by the employees.
Section 3, There shall be a joint Company- , _
Union safety inspection committee composed of/jU four representatives from the Company and four^U representatives from the Union who shall meet/j and carry out inspections once a month. Tim j
Company-Union safety inspection committee may recommend to the Superintendent of the < plant, improvements in safety conditions and j j shall be informed cf the disposition made ofUj.,
their recommendations. The committee >may also,' investigate causes of accidents which occur and may make recommendations designed to prevent recurrence of such accidents, to the Superintendent of the plant.
ARTICLE XIII
/70S/?
SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
Section 1. Should it become necessary to close the plant or a substantial department of the plant and it is not expected that those affected Ti will be re-employed, a separation allowance will be paid to employees subject to the following:
y-i
(a)	They have one (1) or more years seniority..
(b)	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid off within the ninety (90) days period preceding the date of notice of closing. Employees on leave of absence up to one year, and

29
employees receiving Workers’ Compensation or off because of sickness or non-compensable accident will be eligible, provided they have not been c£E work in excess of the time limits corresponding to seniority as set out in Article IX, Section 5(c).
(c)	They have not been granted retirement pension.
(d)	The closing is not brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown or other cessation of work, fire, government action or Act of God.
(e)	In order to qualify for separation allowance employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
(f)	Separation allowances shall be computed on the basis of the following schedule which is2
to be used in computing the number of weeks’"/
~	" "vice; ,
pay according to the years of credited service Payments are to be computed on the basis cf forty (40) hours per week or the employee’s basic work week if different at his regular rate of pay.
Years of Credited Service	Weeks of Pay
11 and over, add to lVs weeks’ pay for each year of credited service above ten (10) years.
30
Example:
12 years of credited service:
First 10 years of credited service _____________________ 7Vs weeks’ pay
Service over 10 years
(12/10 or2xiy3)____________ 3 weeks’ pay
Total Separation Allowance lOVs weeks’ pay
To the separation allowance computed as per example add vacation pay for the current calendar year if the employee has qualified for but not taken such vacation.
i(g) The Company shall give notice of its intention to close the plant or a substantial department of the plant referred to in this agreement, at least 90 calendar days prior to such closing. Effective on the date of such notice being issued all employees with seniority will be eligible to receive separation payments whether they are working or laid off.
Section 2. Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall on doing so terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement or under any other Agreement between the signing parties.
Section 3. In the event that part of the plant remains open, employees eligible to receive separation allowance may elect to remain on the seniority list for possible recall. The Com-
Swill hold the separation allowance for employees as long as they are eligible for recall, during which time the employee may request payment subject to the provisions of the
above section. Those re-employed on this basis will receive seniority credits up to the time of their layoff but shall not accumulate additional seniority during the period of layoff.
Section 4. In respect of those employees who are eligible for separation allowance under this Article, the Company will continue to contribute to the Group Life Insurance, Medical Surgical, Major Medical and Hospitalization plans. Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to three (3) months following the month in which the plant is closed and will be made on the basis existing at the time of closing.
ARTICLE XIV —WORK METHODS
Change in Working Methods	*23
Section 1. (a) When the introduction of new equipment makes a material change which is expected to result in the closing of a department or a substantial reduction in the number of employees in a department, the Company A/will inform the Chief Steward of the Union of >v / sjich change at least ninety (90) days in ad-contemjpafgaia
parties will discuss what is expected 10" lake
place and how the matter may best be handled. Employees who are eligible for placement in the plant will be entitled to, the provisions set out in Article V_Section 5(a). Employees with one ill or more years or seniority who are
affected by such change and who are not eligible for placement in the plant will be entitled to the provisions set out m Article XIIL Sec- -4
tion 2. * Where an employee is transferred to work where the job rate is lower, as a direct result of the introduction of new equipment, or where an employee remains on a job reduced in value following a technological change, his
i
32
/s^ c/	,
rate shall not be reduced for a period of thre^^l (3) years, including layoff, provided that ther employee accepts all opportunities to post to r work where the job rate is higher, unless it is unreasonable to expect such employees to apply due to such things as age, health, working conditions, and the employee's ability to learn the job. Where an employee after a sincere effort is unable to qualify his rate protection shall not be affected. In the application of or
adjustment of bracket values, such an employee will not be paid a rate greater than the rate
paid him at the time of the above mentioned posting, except for reasons of a general wage increase after the date of transfer. At the expiring of the three (3) year period set out above, the amount of rate reduction shall be limited to two (2) brackets, at twelve (12) month intervals thereafter, further reductions of a maximum of two (2) brackets shall take place until the lower rate prevails.
(b) Establishing rates for new jobs: For the_ purpose of this clause a new job is defrnecflis one whfcfTTs not presently being performed in the bargaining unit. Additions or changes to the present wage schedule shall be the subject of collective bargaining between the Company and the Union. Any new job rates agreed to shall be retroactive to the date on which the new job or jobs began.
ARTICLE XV — CONTRACTING OUT
Section 1, The Company prefers to have work done by its employees although at times it is necessary to have work performed by .outside , contractors. The relevant factors which the « Company will consider before contracting out , such work include, adverse effect on employees/
33
availability of required skills, duration and frequency of the job, urgency of the job, cost of equipment in relation to its use and relative cost comparison.
Section 2. When work performed on the premises by outside contractors represents a material change in practice and has adverse effect on present employees of a group affected by such change of practice, the matter may be the subject of a grievance and may be taken to arbitration.
Section 3. Should an Arbitration Committee be called on to review the Company’s action, it may consider the relevant factors referred to above, in order to determine the reasonableness of the Company’s action with regard to all circumstances. Should the Arbitration Committee find that the Company’s action was not reasonable, the Committee will direct that the Company choose between having the work performed by its employees or ceasing such operation, and that the Company shall have a reasonable time to effect the decision.
Section 4, This provision does not apply to installation and construction work.
Section 5, The Company may at times experiment to determine if work can be performed effectively and economically by its own employees. When this is done for a trial period, it shall not be considered a change of practice should the Company elect to contract ouf, after
the trial period.
ARTICLE XVI—PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Section 1, Part-time and casual employees will not be used where it is practical to employ full-time employees, and, except as otherwise
agreed with the Chief Steward, part-time employees will not be employed for the purpose of reducing overtime unless that part-time work is required on a regular basis. Where the work erformed by part-time or casual employees can e satisfactorily combined to permit the employment of a full-time employee, this will be done provided the employee can satisfactorily perform the work. Part-time employees shall work less than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
Section 2. The Union may submit and the Company will consider, alternative means of doing the required work rather than employ part-time or casual employees and such matters may be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
ARTICLE XVII - LEAVE OF ABSENCES
Section 1. Employees, not to exceed two (2), who are appointed to or elected to do business for the Union shall be granted leave of absence without pay to attend to such business. Such employees shall continue to accumulate seniority for the period covered by this Agreement, and upon giving the Company one week’s notice in writing of their intention to return to work, sihall be reinstated in the job held prior to the leave of absence or its equivalent, at the sanie rate of pay provided they are capable of doing the job within the usual qualifying period.
I
4
■ - - ie / of attending Union schools, conventions, con- jp
ferences, or negotiatibps~ of this Agreement y' snail De granted oy the Company on a written^ request from the Local Union subject to the \y following conditions. Employees chosen by the Union shall be granted leave of absence not to exceed thirty (30) days, providing that the
absence of such employee shall not unreasonably affect the operations of the Company. The Union shall give the Company written notice c£ not less than fourteen (14) days before the requested leave is to commence. A request for an extension of a leave of absence must be made prior to the expiration of the leave already granted, and will be considered in relation to existing conditions. The Company agrees to allow 1% of the bargaining unit to be away at any given time. However, under no circumstances is it permissible to have more than two people absent from one department per shift.
Section 3. At the option of the Company, when an employee's personal affairs make it desirable for him to be relieved of Company duties, leave 'of absence without pay beyond the L regular vacation period to which an employee * is entitled may be granted for good and suf- /\ ficient reason. This is providing that such N leave of absence does not interfere with the 1 requirements of the business. It is agreed that leave of absence shall not intefere with other employees' vacation choices.
Section 4. Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing any employee to take another position temporarily, try out new work, or venture/ into business for himself.
Section 5. Leave of absence, before being granted, must be requested in writing and approved by the Company in writing. A copy of the request, whether approved or not approved, is to Ire given to the Chief Steward.
Section 6. An employee who finds it necessary to apply for leave of absence as a result of her pregnancy, will upon presentation of a
36
medical certificate denoting fitness for her work, £ and within three months following delivery be ^ reinstated to her former job or to one 'oi'| equal rating. It is agreed that employees re- 1 ferred in this clause sjia.ll continue to accumulate seniority while on such leave of absence. ,
/j~oj h
ARTICLE XVIII - GENERAL (fal -
Section 1. The Company shall supply bul-/ * letin boards for the use of the Union, for the posting of notices of official union business, such notices to be approved by the Management.
Section 2. Laundry service for outer work clothing shall be maintained at no cost to the employee.
Section 3. The Company will allow employees adequate relief as well as necessary time for changing clothing or equipment necessitated by a change in working conditions.
Section 4. The Company and the Union agree to supply a copy of this Agreement to each employee of the Company affected thereby.
Section 5. The Company agrees to provide a full day’s pay to any employee suffering injury or emergency sickness which requires absence during such day for medical or hospital attention. To be eligible for this pay, the employee must report to his supervisor or to the first aid attendant before leaving the plant.
Section 6. The Company agrees that any regular employee of the Company summoned w' to appear for Jury Duty, or who serves Jury Duty, or is a Subpoenaed Witness, shallp*v be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for jury service
37
and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such days with their/regular. gang.	// efoIas
Section 7. Any working conditions now in
effect and not specifically covered by this Agreement shall remain in effect unless changed by collective bargaining.
Section 8. When an employee attends the funeral of an immediate relative, he shall receive . * eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for the//X day of the funeral and two other days either”/ immediately before or after the funeral, pto>^< vided such payments are made only in respect r* to absence from work on his regular work days.
For the purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be one of the following: Wife, Husband, Daughter, Son, Mother, Father, Sister, Brother, Mother-in-Law, Father-in-Law, Stepmother, Stepfather, Brother-in-Law, Sister-in-/, Law, Grandparents and Grandchildren. //Oil'
/ J 6,'ulJ
In the case of grandparents-in-law. son-m-law, daughter-in-law and step-children, the employee is entitled to the day of the funeral only.
Section 9, Launderable outer work clothing oilskin aprons, and oilskin sleeves, specified by the Company as required for work in the plant, will he supplied to employees. Such clothing remains the property of the Company and shall not be removed from the Company’s premises except in the regular performance of duty, and must be returned for new issue or upon separation cf the employee. Clothing not returned when worn out or upon separation will be paid for by the employee. Rubber boots and belts specified by the Company as required for work will be supplied to employees who have
3S
completed fifty (50) days worked or more. The Company agrees to grant a footwear allowance of thirty-five (35) dollars per year to those employees with seniority.
Section 10. Tools — Mechanical Tradesmen of tiy&e Mechanical Department with seniority, shall 'ffpon presentation oTrequlred tools broken on the job and worn out required tools, receive replacement tools. Such replacements shall be limited to those specified by the Company as being required and shall in addition be limited to a maximum cf $70.00 per contract year per affected employees.
Section 11. The Chief Shop Steward shall be notified by Management regarding the rate of pay and place of employment of each new employee.
Section 12. The Company agrees to allow employees where required, five (5) minutes cleanup time prior to their regular quitting;; .
time.	O&afa O
Section 13. (a) Weekly indemnity benefits will be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan as detailed in the employee booklet in the following amounts:
/6th and //	Subsequent
Job Brackets 1st 4 Weeks Weeks
0-4 Bracket $285.00/Week $290.00/Week 5-12 Bracket $300.00/Week $305.00/Week 13 Bracket & over $315.00/Week $320.00/Week
39
Service scale for duration of payments is:
8 Months to 18 Months service----------	4 weeks
18 Months to Five Years service________16 weeks
5 Years to 7 Years service________________ 26 weeks
7 Years to 10 Years service-------------34 weeks
U'i
n
iv
Years and over
52 weeks
he employee is to pay a monthly premium '15.00, with the Company '	"	"
necessary to maintain the plan.
the difierenc
A three-day waiting period applies, except when an employee is hospitalized during the waiting period due to an illness or accident.
New employees have a 90 working day waiting period.
In the event an employee has a claim refused by the Workers’ Compensation Board for reasons of “non-compensable claim”, he shall become eligible for benefits under the Weekly Indemnity plan. This is provided the terms and conditions of the plan are met. In addition, the employee must sign a statement to the effect that if benefits arc subsequently received from the Workers’ Compensation Board, for the claim, benefits received under the Weekly Indemnity plan must be repaid to the insurer.
Both the Company and the Union agree that in the event a claim refused by the Workers’ Compensation Board would appear to be appealable, the employee should oe encouraged to proceed with an appeal.
i(B) All eligible employees will be covered with group life insurance far $15,000,00. f\
40
New employees have a 90 working day period before becoming eligible to join the plan.	tjj
coverage is be paid
The full cost of this	.,
for by the Company.	/
lOyf (c) M.S.P. (Medical Services : Is » ABC '	- '	' '

>*'
.^Columbia) V” employees.
:©f British
coverage is provided 4m all eligible i Plan c / f^'Jj
New employees have a 90 working day waiting*' period before becoming eligible for this benefit.
(d)	The Company shall continue to pay all ’	~ d-sntal and "" '
costs of M.S.P-i d-sntal and Jife,in,surance,.prem- fSi turns for employees on extended disability or /
sick .leave. Each employee shall be required to-provide adequate evidence of such disability or
sickness.
(e)	A long term dis^MIJtyplan is provided for all eligible employees. Ijetails of this plan are contained iryAppendix "p6 of this Agreement.
(f)	Vision careCovgrage will bejsrovided to
a maximum of $75.00 every 24 months for each ^
insured member.
Reimbursement will not be provided for any/ expense incurred for sun glasses, safety glasses, or for any form of eye glasses provided for
cosmetic or aesthetic purposes.
No deductable or co-insurance apples to the vision care items.	7£ £//
(g)	. Hearing aid coverage to a maximum of $500.00 per lifetime is to be prr.y;dpd. This coverage is to be detaifecTTKe same as in they industry settlement of June 1, 1982.
Section 14. It is understood that where the word “he” is used in this Agreement, it shall also cover female employees.
41
Section 15. The Company recognixes the importance and desirability of stabilizing employment on an annual basis and to that end will attempt to give employees fifty-two weeks work per year including the vacation period. It is understood and agreed by the Company and the Union that the foregoing sentence constitutes a statement of policy only and is not intended to and does not impose any contractual obligations whatsoever on the Company.
Section 16. Dental Plan — The Company shall provide a prepaid Dental Plan with M.S.A., providing for eighty (80) percent cover-( age under Plan “A”; and fifiy (50) percent r coverage under Plan “B” for all Bargaining Unit employees. The cost of the plan shall lie paid ainSflpIoyees hired after ■ the signing of this Agreement, participation in this pian will be a condition of employment after an employee has completed six (6) months c£ service, provided said employees are not receiving ,covierage under a different /Dental F.«n.	/77© &//0O
Section 17. The Company shall reimburse the employees for the renewal of necessary licences required in _ the performance of their duties including reimbursement of lost wages incur red as a result ot writing exams to ,ob(ain such)
Section 18. Management personnel shall not h perform production (bargaining unit) work nor iVshall management personnel displace Union ' personnel except in extreme absenteeism and l where management personnel are involved in • (raining unqualified employees, or in product development,
42
Extreme absenteeism shall mean that there are insufficient qualified employees available to start up operations at the beginning cf a shift.
All exceptions noted above shall be discussed with the appropriate shop steward.
Sectim 19. Procedure for Newly Hired Personnel. When engaged, a new employee reports to the first aid attendant or personnel supervisor who ensures the following documents are given to him or her:
(a)	Set of Safety Rules.
(b) Set of Sanitary Rules.
(c) Set of Security Rules.
The first aid attendant or personnel supervisor outlines hours of work, when lunch and coffee breaks occur and how to identify when they occur. Also, the employee is given his time card and shown where and how to clock in.
The first aid attendant or personnel supervisor also outlines location of washrooms, locker rooms and lunchrooms.
In addition, the first aid attendant or personnel supervisor ensures the new employee is introduced ‘to the department supervisor who then takes the employee to the department, shows him or her the equipment, pointing out any potential hazards.
The supervisor and/or a designated employee will give the new employee instructions on how to perform the duties expected of them.
Section 20. Upon the expiration of six irjfatvths from the date of the occurrence upon which a disciplinary entry or adverse reference to an
43
V
employee’s conduct was entered in the employee’s personal file, the Company will be precluded from usinar such entry or reference in any disciplinary action.. Effective January 1. 1i)S5 the "	" ” has been changed
months”
reference cf
tn npe
Section 21. The Company reserves the right to protect from any lay off, employees working f on an approved apprenticeship program. The number of employees in this category is limited io three (3). Members of the bargaining unit provided they meet the necessary qualifications for the program, have the right to apply for the program and will be given preference over new hirees./
jhrjP't	/
'article XIX
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Section 1. This Agreement shall take effect as cf the 1st day of June. 1984 and shall remain in effect until the 51st dav of March. 1886. and from year to year thereafter, provided, however, that this Agreement may be terminated on the 31st day of March, 1&86, o r on the 31st day of March any year thereafter by either party on written notice mailed by registered post to the Company or to the Union not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the 31st day of March, 1986. or prior to the 31st day cf March cf any year thereafter.
Section 2. During the period of negotiations resulting from any of the provisions above, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
44
Signed on Behalf of the Company:
Fletcher’s Fine Foods Ltd.
8385 Fraser Street, Vancouver, B. C.
D. W. ONIONS,
Personnel Supervisor.
BILL DUCKENFIELD, Controller.
Signed on Behalf cf the Union:
United Food and Commercial Workers, International Union, A.F.L. - C.I.O. - C.L.C. Local 283P.
D.	CHERRILLE R. KANDOLA
E.	TOMEI R. SILLIS
K. KIRCHNER
45
Appendix A.
Classified
Help Qualified Janitor ________
JOB RATES
Bacon Press Operator____________
Bacon Slicer Operator___________
Toby Slicer Operator____________
Bacon Grader and Scaler__________
Feed Sliced Meat and
Weiner Packaging Machine __
Cry-O-Vac Machine Operator______
Mechanical Skinner Operator_____
Comb Hang and Select Bellies —
Curing Room Man_________________
Smoked Meat Prepar, —-----------
Scaler — Pork Cut, Smoked Meats,
Cooks Helper--------------------
Night cleanup___________________
Truck Washer _____________________
Maintenance Helper______________
Stufier-------------------------
Whizard Kn.i£e Operator Cook -------------------
Pastry Maker___________
Pickle Injector Operator Frank-O-Matic Operator
Fork Lift Operator_____
Freezer Man Helper-----
Head Cook______________
Deboning Machine Operator
Meat Grinder ______________
Beef Cutter _______________
46
Bracket
__	1
__	1
__	2
__2
—	2
__	2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
4 4 4 4
4
5
5
6
Shippers _______________________
Warehouse Receiver_________„____
Freezer Headman ________________
Silent Cutter Operator __.______
Smokehouse Operator------„------
Shipper Deskman ___________„____
Automatic Butt Puller Operator . Automatic Loin Puller #Operator.
Stock Controller _______________
Beef Boner _____________________
Pork Utility Man ___________.___
Ham Boner ______________________
Maintenance ____________________
Truck Drivers — Deliveries _____
Steak and Portion Cutter ____________
Truck Drivers— — Semi—Trailers_______
Engineer Maintenance_________________
Millwright— Second Class ____________
Millwright—First Class ..............
Engineer Maintenance — Certified ticket
Millwright—Second Class —
Certified Ticket _________________
Millwright—First Class—
Certified Ticket__________________
7
7
7
S
8 8 8 8 8
11
11
11
11
12
12
14
16
21
26
28
33
38
Department Co-ordinator—20c. above the Highest job bracket in his department.
Effective July 1, 1982, the position of department co-ordinator will no longer be posted, as it is the intenion of the company to eliminate these positions as they become vacant.
47
w —
/Appendix B.
I BRACKET VALUES AND LABOUR RATES
All employees on payroll as of date cf ratify Starting rates After 7 weeks After 13 weeks Bracket Bracket Bracket Bracket Bracket Bracket Bracket Bracket Bracket 11 Bracket 12 Bracket 14 Bracket 16 Bracket 21 Bracket 26 Bracket 28 Bracket 33 Bracket 38
The First Aid Attendant holding Certificate shall receive a premium of thirty (30) cents per hour over his applicable rate, and the First Aid Attendant holding a Class C Certificate shall receive a premium of twenty-five (25) cents per hour over his applicable rate.
Circle rate or Over-rates eliminations will only be effective if and when_ an employee is transferred to a higher rated job permanently.
48
Appendix C.
BRACKETVALUESANDLABOURRATES
All employees hired after date cf ratification.
Starting rate of S8.00 per hour.
But when qualified for a particular job, an additional ,08c, per hour is to be added to the above rate for each bracket.
May, 1983
_ . Letter of Understanding
LONG TERM DISABILITY
/ t Effective June 1, 1983, the Company will fAarrange to have an insurance carrier provide a Long Term Disability Plan which will include the following provisions:	S'//
— Full time employees actively at work nn the effective date are eligible for the Plan on attainment of one year's seniority. Employees absent from work on the date they would otherwise have been eligible must return to work and satisfactorily complete two months' full time work to be eligible.
— LongTerm Disability benefits will be payable where an employee is unable to perform any employment for remuneration or profit solely by reason cf total disability through sickness or accident. The sole determination of cases qualifying for benefits will be made by the insurance company based upon continuing medical evidence of such disability as it considers satisfactory. To qualify, any case involving alcohol or drug related conditions will require
49
active supervision by and continuing treatment from a rehabilitation centre or a provincially designated institution. Any case involving mental illness will require continued treatment under an approved specialist, and will only be paid in cases of severe conditions involving personality disorganization (psychotic conditions). Any employee in receipt of Long Term Disability benefits will not receive any credited service during the period of time that he receives such b efits.
s sucn oenei
— The amount of benefit will l/^/V' ^ 7per y month less any benefit for whicl'e Jll.GOQ.OQLyee Jjis eligible under the Canada or Quebec Pension jju Plan Primary Disability Benefit, Workers’ Compensation or other government or government sponsored plan, excluding any pre-existing disability benefit. The employee will be presumed eligible for such government benefits until satisfactory evidence is presented that his application for them has been denied.
—	Thte benefit will commence after the employee has been absent due to the disability for one year or after his sickness and accident pay entitlement has expired, whichever is earlier, and will be payable until recovery, actual Retirement date, normal retirement date, or death, whichever comes first
—	Should an employee return to work after collecting Long Term Disability benefits and subsequently again cease work as a result of the same or a related disability, the benefit will recommence without a waiting period provided the disability recurred within a year of the employee’s return to work; otherwise, the employee will be subject to the normal waiting period before the benefit commences.
SO
—	No benefit will be paid to an employee undter the Company’s Sickness and Accident Plan, where ithe employee is entitled to receive benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan and no employee shall receive a benefit under the Long Term Disability Plan while he is' receiving benefits under the Company’s Sickness and Accident Plan.
—	Where an employee returns fo work under an approved rehabilitation program cf up to 24 months, the benefit will be reduced by 50% of any earnings, provided the total gross income from all sources’ does not exceed 90% of the pre-disability normal gross wages.
—	No benefit will be paid for intentionally self-inflicted injuries, or for disabilities arising from a declared or undeclared act of war, participation in a riot of insurrection, employment with another employer, or commision of a felony.
—	Where an employee is absent from work and receiving Long Term Disability benefits for a period of three consecutive years or longer then as of the end of the third year his seniority and employment with the Company shall he deemed broken and thereafter there shall be no obligation on the part of the Company to rehire him. Notwithstanding the foregoing proviso as‘ to a period of three or more consecutive years, if an employee returns to work after collecting Long Term Disability benefits and if within one year thereafter he again ceases work as the result of the same or a related disability and receives! Long Term Disability benefits, then such further period of absence from work while receiving Long Term Disability benefits shall be deemed to be consecutive with the immediate previous absence
61
and such further period of absence shall be taken into account and added onto the previous absence in determining whether the employee has been absent from work and received Long Term Disability benefits for a period cf three consecutive years or longer.
January 7, 1985.
Letter of Understanding
PART-TIME WORKERS
The company may employ part-time workers, if agreed to by the union, for work performed on calendar Saturdays or Sundays under the following conditions:
1.	Hill time employees with seniority who are on lay-off status shall be called in order of seniority and given the option <f working or not at the part-time rate as detailed in (4) below, provided they are qualified to perform the work to be done.
2.	If the company fails to secure workers as indicated in (1) above, they may hire new employees.
3.	The company shall notify the union, prior to any work performed on a calendar Saturday or Sunday by part-tiime workers, and notify the union in writing for the reasorfs therefore.
4.	The rate cf pay for part-time workers who perform work on a calendar Saturday or Sunday shall be §8.00 per hour, plus the premium as detailed in Article VII, Section 5(d).
52
In respect to this memorandum, the Union agrees to co-operate with the Company, provided the condition's heretof are met, and that the request for the Saturday or Sunday work can be reasonably justified.
It is also further understood that full-time employees, not on lay-off, and provided the weekly guarantee for them has been met, have no seniority rights in respect to working any Saturday or Sunday hours. In the event they wish to work, they have the option to do so at the part-time rate as detailed herein. If the company specifically requests full-time employees to work on weekends, they will be paid the applicable overtime rate.
January 7, 1985.
Letter cf Understanding PENSION PLAN
The Company wishes to terminate the pre-
sent. pension plan.
The Company undertakes	'Tnlo p^ce
by January 1, 1986. a non-contributory plan that pays a monthly pension in the /sam& amount as that paid by Gainers.
Each member cf the present pension platl^* shall have the option to elect to receive either^' of the following:
a) A life annuity guaranteed for 10 years for/^" the am'ount cf pension earned to date payable at the later of age 65 or actual retirement from Fletcher's. In no case will the annuity amount be less than that which can be purchased by the employee's own contributions accumulated with interest.
53
b) A lump sum payment equal to the employee’s contributions accumulated with interest.
The effect of choosing “a” is that the employee automatically becomes 100% vested.
In addition, provided there is sufficient interest (minimum 50 persons) the Company will set up and administer a monthly payroll deducted R.R.S.P, plan.
January 7, 1985,
Letter of Understanding KNIFE SHARPENING
The Company intends to introduce a new knife sharpening system called “Razor Edge”. When this system is in place ift the plant, Article VII, Section 11(a) snail be replaced with the foliowing wording:
“The Company shall provide a qualified operator for the sharpening of tools, knives, etc. This operator will be responsible for all sharpening of this equipment m the plant”.
January 7, 1985,
Letter of Understanding NEW EMPLOYEES
The Company hereby agrees that n'o new regular full time employees will be hired for the balance of the term of this agreement that date being March 31, 1986.
This agreement does not in any way effect the letter of understanding dated January 7, 1985 on the subject of part-time workers, and the company may still engage new part-time workers as agreed therein.
54
■■1	HHHH	■■■■		mammm	mm	n	Hi
JGNB	mar	Arm	MAtCS	nmnax	JANUAKY		
	to — — V!{BmO>	£4 oCm ©v	O 01 SssOto	U' .^'O to	Mmm avetovi	CD	\o Oc
WN** Ofc»0SSOtO	N >• M OS'A tool	8SE-.	oSoow	Sc! 3«o»	3 ow as	*	
3h>OOS>*	£j oC>» 0S	82\AOh	vnSC*.	sn 3*2 *.	82S^	r*	
	SSJ-	OW&sOM		Mom QSV0MVA	«£SS«~	*	■O.
SSnO>	^toCnOB *-	2C Sv»	38Sos	toeCSas	<S8S<aN		
mS<!*Ov	$wSs<^M	KSho	2 2 Uo	BKS-j	-Sg5S<i»	■0	
MMm OBM|»,^l		8vSnw	8nS>cb •*	tO»* toot OB	* 282*.	OB	
	NOWMBOt	ocrom	smsmtt	AUGUST	JHS		
tJN» ao — *.vi	S4* to M O U) 9>s9 to	^Swo	KSS-J	SJO to —■ ■ w^oev<	MMm o©v»ft	«j»	
to tO *M SO to Sft W H	kloo ' ■fet-O OSM	y Ss>* as	8KCS00.-	Mom Vltt-O.	SSX-I	X'	
<Ss2 ON-O tO	to mm mm sAOB — O.	^2£o	<£>■& ossa *o	NMm Oss© to wt	'vSImwMm		
	§sn3 to o*	82gioi^	2o»w	O 9 Co os	B28a©JO	«	
o*S^o>	MMm ~4 OS*» ©v		2«2'.t.	8£I~.	aS3s«	*4	
to M* MM OSS© wo	821s,	o83 9*o»	^HWI	SO to VS 00 ~	2S2*.	**	
oSvSos		2S2<».	22Sos	(J< to 1-ev»av©M	88	M	