Collective Agreement
Between
i
FISHERY PRODUCTS INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
Bonavista, Burin, Dildo, Marystown, Port-au-Choix, Port Union and Triton
And
FFAW
CAW
nail, pood and
ALLIED WORKERS
(Chartered by Canadian Auto Workers)
April 1, 2006-December 31, 2009
PLANTS
INDEX
Article Description
Page
1	Recognition
2	Union Security
3	Management Rights
4	Employee Rights
5	No Strike - No Lockout
6	Union Officers
7	Working Conditions
8	Classification and Wages
9	Temporary Assignments
10	Hours of Work
11	Overtime
12	Guarantee of Work
13	Statutory Holidays
14	Vacation
15	Seniority
16	Safety
17	Leave of Absence
18	Grievance Procedure
19	Arbitration
20	Labour Management Committees
21	Group Insurance Plan
22	General
23	Relief Seagoing Engineers and Cooks
24	Apprenticeship Plan
25	Office Staff
26	Technological Change
27	Harassment Based on Gender
28	Transfers and Relocations
29	Casuals Employees
30	Amendment
31	Term of Agreement
2
2
3
3
4
5
6
7
8 8
10
11
11
13
15
19
21
23
24
25
26 26 26
27
28 28 28
29
30
31 31
APPENDIX 1: Tradesmen "B" Training Program SCHEDULE A: Job Classifications & Wage Schedules SCHEDULE B: Tradesmen Classifications & Wage Schedules SCHEDULE C: Hours of Work SCHEDULE D: Office Staff SCHEDULE E: Group Insurance Plan
SCHEDULE F: South Dildo Discharge LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
34
36
39
40 50 53 59 61
Collective Agreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW -AprilI, 2006 • december31,2009
1
ARTICLE 1 - Recognition
1:01 -	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive Bargaining Agent for all employees
of Fishery Products International Limited Plants, located at Bonavista, Burin, Dildo, Marystown, Port-au-Choix, Port Union and Triton, in the Province of Newfoundland, save and except Manager, Assistant Manager, Personnel Manager, Office Manager, Assistant Office Manager, Controller, Assistant Controller, Cost Analyst, Personnel - Labour Relations Officer, Trawler Manager, Assistant Trawler Manager, Marine Superintendent, Port Safety Officer, Chief Electrician, Electronic Engineer, Chief Engineer, Maintenance Superintendent, Ship's Husband, Incentive Supervisors, Confidential Secretaries, Nurses, Time and Study Personnel, Quality Control Inspector, Foremen and those above the rank of Foremen, Watchmen at: Bonavista, Dildo, Fortune, and Office Staff at: Bonavista, Dildo and Triton.
1:02 -	Persons in positions outside the bargaining unit shall not perform work done by classifications
for which the working conditions are covered by this Agreement except for the purpose of demonstrating or instruction or in the event of a job no member of the bargaining unit is capable of performing, or in cases of emergency.
1:03 -	The Company shall not make any individual agreement with any member of the bargaining unit
directly or indirectly in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement.
1:04:01 - The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon the Company, its officers and employees, upon the Union, its officers and members but shall not include work performed by sub-contractors who provide services of labour under contract with the Company. However, the Company agrees not to sub-contract or contract out work normally done by employees within the bargaining unit provided there are employees within the bargaining unit with the necessary skills and ability who are available to perform the work.
1:04:02 - When the Company contracts out work to be performed on site at one of its plant operations it will ascertain, from the Contractor, the manpower requirements for the job and the extent to which there will be local hiring. The Company will endeavor to ensure that the Contractor will give preference of employment to Company employees who have the required skills and who are on lay-off at the time the contract work is to be performed. The Company will advise the Local Union of the work to be contracted out and the anticipated manpower requirements of the Contractor.
1:05 -	Throughout this Agreement the masculine shall include the feminine and the singular shall
include the plural as the context may require.
ARTICLE 2 - Union Security
2:01 -	The Company will give preference of employment to Union members except those who have
quit or have been dismissed and employ only Union members when such are available and are capable, in the opinion of management, of doing efficiently the work for which they are to be hired.
2:02:01 - It is to be a condition of employment that all prospective employees, not already Union members, sign application forms to join the Union prior to commencement of work with the Company, and that the Company upon hiring, shall deduct from the wages of such employees the initiation fee, the Union dues, on a weekly basis, as advised by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Fish, Food and Allied Workers in accordance with their Constitution.
CollectiveAgreement-FPI & FFAW/CAW-April 1,2006 ■ December31,2009
2:02:02 - Special assessments will only be implemented following acceptance by the membership, by secret ballot vote, as required by the FFAW Constitution, Article XII, Section 7(i). Following such vote, the Company will be notified by the Local Executive as to the amount of the deduction.
2:02:03 - The amount deducted under 2:02:01 and :02 will be forwarded to the Provincial Office of the Fish, Food and Allied Workers no later than the 15th. of each month. The Company will include the amount deducted for Union dues on T-4 slips.
2:03:01 - The Company shall make it a condition of employment that every member who is now a member or who hereafter becomes a member of the Union shall maintain his membership therein.
2:03:02 - The Company agrees to deduct from employees who are returning to the bargaining unit as a result of exercising their right under Clause 15:08 (d), the amount of Union dues required to update their membership as advised by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Fish, Food and Allied Workers.
2:04 -	The Company agrees to inform all new employees of the existence of the Union. Upon hiring,
each new employee shall be introduced to the appropriate Union Officer and issued a copy of this Agreement. The Company agrees to provide one-half (1/2) hour each week for the Local Unit President, or his designate, to meet, during that waek, with new hires employed by the Company for the first time.
ARTICLE 3 - Management Rights
3:01-	11 is expressly understood and declared that except as modified by the terms of this Agreement,
it is the exclusive right of the Company to manage the affairs in which it is engaged and to direct its working forces. Without any limitation of the foregoing such rights include but are not limited to:
1.	The introduction of technical improvements, changes in the method of operation, installation of systems which would improve working conditions and provide additional income for the individual worker, and the right to engage, lay-off, promote, transfer, and for just cause reprimand, suspend, or discharge.
2.	The Company retains the sole and exclusive right to specify the work to be performed and services to be rendered by any employee or employees, or class of employees. The Union will not attempt to compel the Company to subdivide the work allocated to such employees in order to create additional classifications when, in the opinion of the Company, such new classifications are unnecessary.
3.	Management rights are subject to the provisions of this Agreement and should be exercised in a manner that is fair, reasonable, and consistent with the terms of this Agreement
ARTICLE 4 - Employee Rights
4:01 -	Any disciplinary action taken by the Employer with respect to an employee may be subject to
the grievance procedure set out in this Agreement.
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT- FPI&FFAW/CAW-APRIL 1,2006- DECEMBER 31,2009
4:02 -	No discrimination will be exercised in the employment, retention, or working conditions of an
employee because of membership in the Union or for accepting positions, serving on committees or representing the employees covered by this Agreement, or on grounds of color, sex, age, or religious or political affiliation.
4:03 -	Employees in the bargaining unit, or a Union officer having written permission from an
employee, upon signing a request form shall have access to their personnel records no later than the following business day, during office hours and shall, if requested, be provided with copies of material contained in such reports if pertinent to a pending arbitration.
4:04 -	The Company agrees that when an employee is called in on a disciplinary matter
that will form part of his record, he will be accompanied by the steward although the employee may request the steward to leave the meeting. If the employee is to be interviewed by the Company as part of a disciplinary procedure, the Company will notify the Union of the scheduled interview and the employee may choose whether or not to be accompanied by the steward.
4:05 -	A member of the Local Executive shall receive a copy of any written warning to an employee.
The record of any disciplinary action shall not be referred to or used against an employee after a period of nine (9) months worked, during which time no disciplinary action has been taken, and any record of disciplinary action shall be removed from the employee's personnel file.
ARTICLE 5 - No Strike - No Lockout
5:01 -	During the life of this Agreement there shall be no lock-out by the Company or any strike,
sitdown, slowdown, stoppage or suspension of work, complete or partial, for any reason by the employees or any of them.
5:02 -	Inthe event that the procedure for the settlement of contract negotiations has been completed
in accordance with The Labour Relations Act, the Union agrees to give the Company seven (7) days' notice of its intention to strike.
5:03 -	In the event of a strike or stoppage of work, the Union agrees to consult with the Company on
the requirement for engineers for Boilers and Refrigeration. Employment of engineers will be permitted to ensure compliance with regulations and no loss of product or equipment. The Company will keep its requirements for engineers from the bargaining unit to a minimum. In the event of an emergency, the Union agrees, upon request, to supply the necessary manpower required.
5:04 -	Notwithstanding the above, no employee shall be required to cross a picket line at the premises
of any other Employer, or engage in work which involves the processing, handling, or transportation of any goods which have been shipped or diverted from any premises where there is a dispute between a company, shipper or his agent, or forwarder, and any outside Union performing work similar to that being performed by the members of the Union which is a party to this Agreement.
5:05-	In the event of any dispute occurring between the Union and any other company, firm, or
individual, arising out of a breach of any agreement which may be existing between the Union and such other company, firm, or individual or for any other reason, or in the event of dispute between the Company and any other Union, firm, or individual, then in all such cases, there shall be no lockout, stoppage of work, or slowdown of work in relation to the Company's operations and no attempt will be made by the Union or any member thereof to interfere in any way with the operation of the Company because of the dispute.
COLLECTIVE AGRfflVEVT- FPI & FFAW/CAW - APRIL 1,2006 • DECEMBER 31,2009
6:01:01
6:01:02
6:02
6:03
6:04 -
6:05 -
6:06
6:07
6:08
6:09:01
ARTICLE 6 - Union Officers
The Union will keep the Company advised of the employees who are to act as official representatives of their membership to deal with the management in matters pertaining to the proper administration of the Agreement during its term.
The Company will recognize a Plant Grievance Committee consisting of three members of the bargaining unit in addition to the concerned shop steward in each department. The Union shall keep the Company advised of the names of committee members, shop stewards, and officers of the Union who are involved in the administration of this Agreement.
The Union will, wherever possible, avoid holding General Union meetings during working hours. When an emergency requires the calling of a meeting during working hours, the Union shall notify management as early as possible, in advance. Permission shall not be unreasonably withheld, unless volume and/or quality of fish necessitates same.
Union officers will be permitted to leave their regular duties during working hours, with no loss of pay or benefits, in order to deal with Local Unit administration of the Collective Agreement or investigation of grievances or complaints, provided they first obtain permission of management. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Union officers will be granted a leave of absence, without pay, for the purpose of attending Union functions and meeting with management to negotiate renewal of the Collective Agreement. During such absence, vacation and seniority rights shall continue to accumulate.
The Union shall appoint or elect, and the Company shall recognize and meet with such officers and stewards who are employees of the Company, as are necessary to administer adequately this Collective Agreement. It is understood that any Union Officer or Steward who has been dismissed, and whose dismissal is awaiting resolution under the grievance procedure, will continue to be recognized by the Company until such time as the grievance is resolved.
The Unit Chairperson and Chief Steward shall have available to them six hours of time off with pay, in total, which time may be divided equally between them or equally between them and one other member of the steward body, during the last week of each month, for the purpose of preparing for the Labour Management Committee Meeting.
The Service Representative or other official representative employed full or part time by the Union will be allowed access to the plant during working hours to conduct necessary Union Business. The Service Representative or Union Official shall first notify management of his presence and indicate the nature of his business. He shall not disrupt normal Company operations.
The Company will pay for time lost from work and related travel expenses for the Union members of the Corporate Committees, defined in Article 20 and the Corporate Health and Safety Committee.
Time-off for hours related to Union business for Unit Chairs or designates shall be calculated at each of the following locations as defined:
Marystown:
Burin, Bona vista:
Port-aux-Choix, Port Union, Triton: Dildo
35 hrs/week 20 hrs/week 10 hrs/week 5 hrs/week
Collective Agreement-FPI& FFAW/CAW-April 1,2006- December31, 2009
6:09:02 - Each Union Steward will have the benefit of three (3) hours per month for Stewards' meetings. The eligible hours under this clause may be banked, at the discretion of the Union, to be utilized for such things as a Stewards' school. In addition, at each plant, up to three (3) women who establish a Women's Committee for the plant, will have the benefit of three (3) hours per month for their meeting.
6:09:03 - The hours defined in 6:09:01 hereof refer to the Unit Chairperson or his/her designate. The Unit Chairperson will be entitled to carry over into the following year ten (10) times their weekly entitlement.
6:09:04 - The hours defined in 6:09:01 and 6:09:02 above will only be earned and apply when the plant is in production.
6:10-	The Company will contribute to the C.A.W. Paid Education Leave, the sum of
$28/000, on Decemberl*1 in each year of this Agreement.
7:01-
7:02
7:02:01 -
ARTICLE 7 - Working Conditions The Company agrees to provide and maintain the following:
(a)	Adequate, suitable, and modern toilet facilities.
(b)	Adequate, cool, clean drinking water.
(c)	Adequate ventilation in all places
(d)	Alarm systems in the generating and refrigeration room for use by the operators in case of emergency.
(e)	Adequate, suitably heated, rest rooms, lunch rooms and working areas
(f)	Adequate space for storing work clothes
(g)	Rotation, at reasonable intervals, of cold storage workers, in and out of cold storage rooms.
(h)	Access to a communications device for employees such as plant engineers and watchmen who are required to work alone.
The Company agrees that maintenancetradesmen and other employees who are requiredto do maintenancework and use their own tools are entitled to a tool allowance often (10) cents per hour worked. Employees must have the appropriate tools requiredto do their job.
Care, maintenance, and replacement of tools are the responsibility of the employee.
7:03-	Clothing: To ensure that employees have clothing relative to the requirementsof
their jobs, the Company and the Union Local at each location shall agree on the free issue of clothing articles, and the frequency of additional issues, specified for each classification in their particular operation.
CollectiveAgreement - FPI & FFAW/CAW -April-1,2006 ■ December31, 2009
7:04
7:05
7:06
7:07
7:08
8:01
8:02
8:03
Upon commencement of employment, each new hire shall receive one (1) free issue of the clothing articles specified for the classification in which the employee has been hired. Thereafter, the employee shall receive additional issues as agreed in 7:03.
When an employee transfers to another classification on a permanent basis, as a result of a job posting, he will carry with him his elapsed free issue time, but may not be eligible for the free issue specified for that classification immediately.
Employees will receive a premium of thirty (30) cents per hour under the following circumstances:
all excessively dirty work, such as cleaning boilers, dirty tanks, etc.; or
when working on ladders, floating scaffolding, or scaffolding at heights of twenty (20) feet or more, or above the level of the wheelhouse roof; or
(iii)
when required to work in confined spaces.
When the premium payment comes into effect, it will continue to apply to the end of the employee's shift. The premium payment under this clause shall apply only at any one time for one of the specified reasons. Where applicable, protective clothing for such work will be supplied by the Company.
On returning to work from an absence due to illness or accident, employees may be required to provide a doctor's certificate when they report to their supervisor.
Subject to the approval of their supervisors, employees of equal ability may exchange shifts provided there is no additional cost burden on the Company and the employees have the ability to perform the work required.
ARTICLE 8 - Classification and Wages
Job classifications and wage rates shall be as shown in Schedule " A attached to and forming part of this Agreement.
When a new classification is established, or there is a substantial change in the duties of an existing classification during the term of this Agreement, the rates of pay for such new classification shall be agreed to by the parties and thereafter become part of Schedule "A" of this Agreement. Should the parties be unable to agree on the rate, the Company shall implement the new rate with the Union having the right to refer the matter to arbitration for final settlement. For the purpose of this Agreement, classification means job title, e.g., Cutter, Janitor; Job Grade refers to hourly rate for classifications in the same Job Grade.
The Company agrees to discuss with the Local Union Executive new methods of operations, systems, or equipment related to new product production. The Company will also discuss with the Local Union Executive plans related to major capital expenditures and construction related to plants and operations. Any conditions or systems arising during the life of this Agreement which create new classifications or significantly alter job content, within existing classifications will, before being implemented, be discussed between the Company and the Union.
Collective Agreement- FPI&FFAW/CAW-April 1,2006- December 31,2009
8:04 -	The pay period shall commence at 0000 hours on Sunday and finish at 2400 hours on the
following Saturday. Thursday of each week shall be payday for the previous week.
8:05-	All pay and disbursements to employees will be in the form of direct deposit for those
employees who have already chosen, or who opt for this method. Effective one year after the date of implementation of this Agreement, all employees will be subject to direct deposit. The direct deposit will be made to all employee accounts not later than 11:30 a.m. on Thursday of each week and the Company will promptly provide a statement showing the period covered, the number of hours worked (regular and overtime) and deductions made.
During the transition, for those employees who remain on the cheque method, the Company will endeavour, but cannot guarantee, to provide their pay cheques on Thursday of each week.
ARTICLE 9 - Temporary Assignments
9:01 -	Should an employee be temporarily transferred to a position carrying a higher rate
of pay than his regular job, he shall be paid the rate for the higher paid job.
9:02 -	Should an employee be temporarily transferred to a position carrying a lower rate
of pay, he shall retain his regular rate of pay provided there is work available for him in his regular classification, except in cases of seasonal layoff where his regular classification has been phased out for the season (the employee then must accept the applicable rate for whichever classification his seniority entitles him).
ARTICLE 10 ■ Hours of Work
10:01 - The regular hours of work for employees shall be as follows:
(a)	The regular hours of work for plant engineers shall be on a shift basis, through all days of the week, consisting of eight (8) or twelve (12) hours per day and forty-two (42) hours per week averaged over a four (4) week or a twelve (12) week cycle. Any hours in excess of eighty (80) hours per two (2) week period will be paid at the rate of time and one half (11/2 x) the regular rate.
(b)	All production and maintenance employees at Burin: eight (8) hours a day, forty (40) or forty-eight (48) hours a week, Monday through Saturday.
(c)	The regular hours of work for production and maintenance employees at Marystown, Portau Choix, Port Union, Bonavista and Triton, shall be as set forth in Schedule"C".
(d)
The regular hours of work for office staff shall be as set forth in Schedule "D".
(e) The regular hours for marine maintenance employees shall be eight (8) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week, Monday through Friday. It i s understood that the Company may call, on a rotating basis, up to fifty (50%) percent of such employees to work on any Saturday.
CollectiveAgreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW - AprilI, 2006 • December31,2009
The regular hours of work for watchmen will be eight (8) hours per day to an average of forty-eight (48) hours per week.
10:02 -	In any department or classification where it becomes necessary to work out a long-term or
permanent change in the regular daily working schedules different from those outlined in Schedule "C", such change in the schedule must be agreed upon between the Company and the Union and thereafter become part of this Agreement. Should the parties fail to reach an agreement on a schedule, the matter may be referred to arbitration for final settlement. Failing agreement, no change shall be implemented by the Company until the arbitrator has ruled on the issue.
10:03:01 - Meal periods shall not be less than one half (1/2) hour and no employee shall be required to work longerthan five (5) hours without a meal period except as hereinafter provided.
10:03:02 - Employees' lunch periods may be varied from the regular time by one-half (1/2) hour either way, Employees who are required to work during their lunch period and who actually lose time from their defined lunch period shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (11/2 x) to the nearest 30 minutes.
10:03:03 - Employees working on a three shift basis shall eat their lunch near the place of work and
shall eat as time and work permit, and in view of these conditions shall not lose time for the meal period.
10:04- Employees shall be entitled to a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes during each half shift provided not less than two (2) hours are to be worked. An additional fifteen (15) minutes rest period will be granted after two (2) consecutive hours of overtime. Rest periods and lunch periods will be scheduled to avoid interruptions in production. All employees are to be at their posts in readiness for immediate commencement of work at the expiration of the rest or lunch periods. To facilitate this, the "All back to work signal" will be sounded twelve (12) minutes after the commencement of the break and then at fifteen (15) minutes to denote the re-commencement of work. Rest periods for workers at Portaux Choix and Port Union, on 10-hour shifts, are as specified in Schedule"C" herein.
10:05 -	An employee who works in excess of six (6) hours between regular shifts and is actually
working beyond eight (8) hours from the end of his last regular shift shall receive ten (10) consecutive hours of rest. The employee will have the option to be compensated at his straight time rate from his regular start time until the expiration of the ten (10) hour rest period, or report to work at his regular start time and be compensated at the rate of double time until the expiration of the ten (10) hour rest period.
10:06 - (a) In Burin and Marystown the onus is on the employee to listen to broadcasts from radio stations CHCM and VOCM at 6:30 p.m. The Company shall be considered as having given employees notice of resumption of work when the broadcast of that information has been made as above,
(b)	Inall other plants, current practices will remain in effect unless the Local Union and Plant Manager can agree on a substitute system.
10:07 -	All employees shall be granted five (5) minutes wash time without loss of pay at the end of a
regular work shift.
10
CollectiveAgreement- fpi & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 • December 31,2009
10:08 - Employees, other than Casuals, reporting for their regular shift shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours' pay at the appropriate rate, or for the number of hours the Company requires them to stand by, whichever is greater.
10:09 - Employees called back to work outside their regular hours shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the appropriate rate. Employees called back to work under this Clause shall not be required to work on jobs unrelated to the purpose of the call back. This clause is not to apply to overtime scheduled in advance or during the regular hours of work.
10:10 - When a statutory holiday named in this Collective Agreement occurs on a regularly scheduled work day, the regular weekly hours shall be reduced accordingly.
10:11 - Regular work shall not be suspended in order to equalize, absorb, or avoid overtime.
ARTICLE 11 - Overtime
11:01 -	All hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any day or 10 hours in a day in Shrimp
operations, or forty (40) hours in any week shall be paid at a minimum of time and one-half. A regular work day, for the purpose of this Article, is defined as eight (8) hours, or 10 hours, from the commencement of work. For the purposes of this Article, a 24 hour period commences from the start of an employee's regular shift in a calendar day.
11:02:01- All hours worked before or after the regular daily hours of work shall be paid at a minimum of time and one-half. This clause applies to Marystown, Burin, Portau Choix and Port Union.
11:02:02- All hours worked before 7 a.m. and after 6 p.m. or hours after 8 hours worked within the period 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. at the Bonavista plant shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half.
11:02:03- In the plants at Dildo and Triton time and one-half will be paid only for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week. Work performed on Sunday will be paid at the rate of double time.
11:02:04 -
11:03
11:04:01
11:05
I n Shrimp operations, all work performed on Sunday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half plus two dollars ($2.00) per hour.
All overtime work shall be optional and voluntary except:
(a)	It is agreed the ninth hour will be compulsory on the request of the Company;
(b)	Scheduled overtime or call in to be compulsory in case of necessary plant and trawler maintenance on Saturday. It is understood that overtime on Saturday is compulsory for only fifty percent (50%) of the maintenance men on any given Saturday.
All hours worked on Saturday shall be paid at a minimum of time and one-half, except for shift engineers and shrimp workers who shall receive a minimum of time and one-half on their first day of rest, subject to 11:02:02 and 11:02:03 shift extensions.
All hours worked on Sunday shall be paid at a minimum of double time except for shift engineers and shrimp workers who shall receive a minimum of double time on their second day of rest.
COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT- FPI & FFAW/CAW -APRIL1,2006 - DECEMBER31,2009
10
11:06 -	All work performed in excess of eleven (11) hours in any twenty-four (24) hours shall be paid at
the rate of double time, and after fifteen (15) hours at double time and one-half of the basic rate.
11:07 -	Time and one-half in addition to holiday pay will be paid for all hours worked on paid statutory
holidays.
11:08 -	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime or other premium pay.
ARTICLE 12 - GUARANTEE OF WORK
CLAUSES 12:02- 12:04 WILL NOT APPLY DURING THE TERM OFTHIS AGREEMENT
12:01 -	The quantity of work available each week for workers in regular production and by-products,
shall be divided, as far as possible, equally between shifts.
The following Articles 12:02 to 12:05 inclusive apply to Marystown plant only.
12:02 -	If on the first work day of any calendar month two or more shifts are employed, all workers on
those shifts are guaranteed a minimum of one hundred and forty-five (145) hours work in that calendar month or pay in lieu thereof, unless laid off in accordance with 12:03, Should the Company begin two shifts at any time after the beginning of the month, the Company guarantees in respect of work shall be that proportion of one hundred and forty-five (145) hours which the remaining days in the month bear to the full month.
12:03 -	The Company has the right to reduce the total number of employees by temporary layoff in
accordance with the seniority provisions cf this Agreement, and operate on a reduced two shift or one shift basis. Any employee so laid off will be guaranteed work or pay in lieu thereof, amounting to 33,5 hours multiplied by the number of weeks in which that employee worked during that month. If the week at the beginning or end of the month is less than a full working week, then the guarantee as calculated is prorated accordingly. Proration of days per month or per week shall be calculated by dividing the number of regular work days into 145, l~ffn any calendar month when the guarantee is applicable the actual hours worked equal or exceed the guaranteed hours, the guarantee does not apply.
12:04 -	Any employee on sick leave or otherwise justifiably absent from work for not over seven (7)
work days shall be entitled to the benefits of the foregoing guarantee less the working time actually missed.
ARTICLE 13 - Statutory Holidays
13:01 -	Eligible employees shall receive holiday pay of eight (8) hours at their basic rate for
each of the following holidays:
CollectiveAgreement- FPI& FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 • December 31,2009
11
13:02 - To be eligible for holiday pay, an employee must be in good standing on the seniority list and have worked within the week in which the holiday falls.
13:03 -	Only employees who have thirty (30) working days' seniority or more shall be entitled to eight
(8) hours straight time as a floating holiday. Such floating holiday may be taken at a time convenient to the employee, subject to the approval of the Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The employee shall have the right to cancel the floating holiday upon giving the Company reasonable notice. If not taken by December 31st., in any given year, the floating holiday will be paid for but not carried forward into the following year.
13:04 -	One (l)additional floating holiday will be paid to those employees who have worked 1000 hours
in the calendaryear. If not taken by December31st., the holiday will be paid for but not carried into the following year.
13:05 -	One (l)additional floating holiday will be paid to those employees who have worked 1500 hours
in the calendaryear, If not taken by December 31st., the holidaywill be paid for but not carried into the following year.
13:06 -	The day proclaimed for each of the foregoing holidays shall be the day observed unless the
parties can agree upon an alternate day mutually acceptable to both of them.
13:07 -	Employees on a three shift basis shall be automatically compensated for holidays which are
observed during their regular working days and may be granted equivalent time off, without pay, on a day within two (2) weeks next after the day upon which the holiday is worked.
13:08:01 - When the plant at Port aux Choix is operating on a 3-shift basis and a statutory holiday occurs only two shifts work on the actual holiday; the other shift is off. If the off shift works on their first scheduled working day following the holiday, they will be paid at the rate of one and one-halftimes (1 l/2x) their regular rate of pay for that day.
13:08:02 If employees qualify for Christmas Day they shall also be granted an additional floating holiday to be taken at a time mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Company. This floater may be carried to the following year. It is understood that this provision applies only if Christmas Day and Boxing Day are observed in the same week or if an individual qualifies for both Christmas Day and New Year's Day.
COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT - FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 ■ DECEMBER31,2009
12
13:09
14:01
14:02
14:03
An employee who has been absent from work as a result of sickness may on his return to work request that a floating holiday, to which he is then entitled, be applied to the sick day. This request must be made during the employee's first day of work following the absence due to sickness.
ARTICLE 14 - Vacation
Employees shall earn vacation with pay as follows:
(a)	The vacation year for Marystown, Dildo, Triton, Port Union and Maintenance personnel at Bonavista shall be January 1 to December 31,
(b)	The vacation year for employees at Burin and Port-au-Choix, shall be May 1 to April 30,
(c)	The vacation year for employees in Bonavista shall be April 1 to March 31,
Employees who are employed on a seasonal basis in plants at Port-au-Choix, Port Union, Bonavista and Triton shall be compensated on a straight percentage basis and where they have worked more than 10 months during the vacation year shall be entitled to vacation days off on the basis of one day for each month of service during the vacation year. Vacation entitlement based on length of service shall be as follows:
(a)	Less than five (5) years' of accumulated service - 4%
(b)	Five (5) years or more of accumulated service, but less than fourteen (14) years' of
accumulated service- 6%
(c)	Fourteen (14) or more years' of accumulated service - 8%
Employees who are employed on other than a seasonal basis in year-round plants shall earn vacation in accordance with the following:
(a) Those who have been on the payroll of the Company for a period of less than one year:
(i)	vacation pay calculated on the basis of 4% of the employee's gross wages for the period of employment in the preceding vacation year; and,
(ii)	one (1) day vacation for each full month employed.
Employees who have been on the payroll of the Company for a period of one (1) year ut less than 5 consecutive years:
(i)	vacation pay calculated on the basis of 4% of the employee's gross wages for the period of employment in the preceding vacation year; and
(ii)	two weeks vacation, i.e., 80, 92, or 104 hours depending on the regular hours of work of the employee concerned.
(c)	Employees who have been on the payroll of the Company for a period of five (5) consecutive years but less than fourteen (14) consecutive years.
(i)	vacation pay calculated on the basis of six percent (6%) of the employee's gross wages for the period of employment in the preceding vacation year, and,
(ii)	three (3) weeks vacation, i.e., 120, 138, or 156 hours depending upon the regular hours of work of the employee concerned.
M) Employees who have been on the payroll of the Company for a period of (l4) consecutive years or more.
fourteen
(0
(ii)
vacation pay calculated on the basis of 8% of the employee's gross wages for the period of employment in the preceding vacation year; and, four weeks vacation i.e., 160, 184, or 208 hours depending upon the regular hours of work of the employee concerned.
COLLECTIVE AGRSV^T-FPI & FFAW/CAW-APRIL 1,2006 • DECBVBR31,2009
13
In Clauses 14:03(b) (ii), (c) (ii) and (d) (ii), for plant engineers, the hours will be 84, 126 and 168 respectively.
14:04 - Employees who qualify for either of the vacations set forth in 14:03 and who have worked more than one thousand (1000) hours shall be paid the greater of either the percentage entitlement, or, regular straight time rate of pay times the number of hours of vacation times the factor of 1/2 o r 1 according to the following schedule:
(I) more than 1000 hours less than 1300: factor 1/2 no more than 1300 hours: factor 1.
Example: A cutter with 10 years on payroll in 1998 who worked 1120 hours in a vacation year would receive the greater of 6% of gross earnings or $11.69 X 156 X 1/2 or $911.82 of pay for 3 weeks'vacation. If he were a maintenance worker (Journeyman "A") the option would be
expressed as the greater of 6% of gross earnings or $15.52 X 138 X 1/2 or $1,070.88 of pay.
14:04:01 - During the term of this Agreement the greater of vacation option factor of 1 for Marystown, will be replaced with the following:
When an employee reaches the greater of vacation option of 1, then the employee will receive an additional fifty percent vacation allowance on all earnings beyond the qualifying factor of 1300 hours to the maximum amount eligible under Article 14, Clause 14:04 (ii). An employee who is eligible for 8 percent will receive an additional 4 percent, a 6 percent person will receive an additional 3 percent, and a 4 percent person will receive an additional 2 percent on all earnings beyond the 1300 hour qualifying criteria to the maximum he/she would receive under the greater of factor of one (1).
14:05 - Should a holiday as listed in Article 13 herein fall during an employee's vacation period, the employee shall be entitled to payment for the holiday and shall have his vacation period extended by one (1) day at a time to be agreed upon between the Company and the employee.
14:06 - At the end of the vacation year, vacation request slips shall be distributed to employees.
Suitable dates for vacation shall be arranged between the employees and the appropriate Management personnel. Ifthere is any conflict between two or more employees with respect to allocation of vacation, preference shall be given to the senior employee. Employees may request to take vacation one (1) week at a time and such request shall not be unreasonably denied. Vacation requests will be approved within thirty (30) days of the end of the vacation year.
14:07 - Employees will be given all unused vacation benefits upon termination of employment at the straight percentage rate to which their length of continuous employment would entitle them. Upon retirement, employees will be paid the vacation benefits to which they are entitled.
14:08 - Vacation pay will be available to the employee on the day prior to the commencement of the vacation period and shall be in the relevant amount provided sufficient notice (i.e. p.m. Monday) is given.
CollectiveAgreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 ■ December31,2009
14
14:09 - Time accumulated while on lay-off shall not be calculated or taken into account for calculating the length of service for the purposes of this Article. Time off while in receipt of holiday pay and vacation pay to the maximum of the number of hours of vacation with pay and/or hours per holiday as the case may be shall be included in calculating hours worked for the purposes of Article 14:04.
14:09:01 - Factors included in the calculation of vacation eligibility, vacation dollars and the greater of options, are defined below:
i.	Factors included in the calculation of vacation eligibility - 4%, 6%, etc: Actual hours worked; earned vacation entitlement (hours); earned floaters (hours); earned statutory holidays (hours); approved leaves of absence (hours); weekly indemnity (hours); Workers' Compensation (hours). The total hours related to the above are included in determining a year of service for the purpose of determining vacation eligibility.
ii.	Factors included in the determining of vacation dollars in a particular vacation year are: Actual hours worked; earned statutory holidays; earned floaters; paid leaves of absence (e.g. Union leave of absence).
Iii. Factors included in calculating hours for the determination of the qualifier with respect to the option of 1000 or 1300 hours: Actual hours worked; earned statutory holidays (hours); earned floaters (hours); earned vacation entitlement (hours); paid leaves of absence (e.g. Union leave of business) (hours).
14:10 - Employees off work due to illness or injury or laid off due to shortage of work in excess of six (6) consecutive weeks, during the vacation year, shall, if they so request, receive any holiday pay to which they are entitled, without taking any vacation time. Employees off work due to illness or injury and having requested and received vacation pay will if they so request, be permitted to take any vacation time to which they are entitled, up to a maximum of two (2) weeks, without pay.
14:11 - Where employees request in advance a specific leave of absence for a specified purpose, which leave is approved and granted by management, the employee may request that earned vacation time and pay on a day-for-a-day basis be used to cover the period of the approved leave.
14:12 - Vacation pay may be paid weekly or the employee may opt to accrue and take equivalent time of with pay.
ARTICLE 15 - Seniority
15:01:01- Seniority shall mean accumulated service from the most recent date of hire. Seniority lists showing, for each employee listed thereon, (a) name, (b) classification, and (c) employment seniority date, shall be posted every six (6) months in the year-round plants and on the 15th. day of June in the seasonal plants. As soon as they are aware of any errors or omissions, employees shall advise the Company. A copy of each list shall be forwarded to the Provincial Office and the Local Unit at the same time as it is posted in the plant.
15:01:02- The Company shall provide the Provincial Office and the Local Unit with all necessary information relating to the following matters for employees within the bargaining unit:
Collective Agreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW-April 1,2006 • December 31,2009
15
(a)	a list of employees including their names, addresses, phone numbers and classifications ranked according to seniority (to be shown on a seniority list), and, upon request, a mailing list of all employees;
(b)	job postings;
(c)	discharges, suspensions and written warnings;
(d)	hirings, resignations, promotions, retirements and deaths at least monthly.
15:02 -	New employees will be regarded as probationary for the first thirty (30) working days, but upon
the successful completion of the probationary period the employee’s seniority shall be dated as of the most recent date of hire. During the probationary period, dismissal for lack of aptitude shall not be the subject of grievance, however, all other terms of this Agreement shall apply. An employee‘s probationary period may be extended beyond thirty (30) working days to a maximum of siXty (60) working days, by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, to permit an employee (e.g. a cutter) to qualify for the job.
15:03:01- (a) In matters concerning lay-off, recall, the filling of permanent vacancies and permanent transfers of employees, the Company shall select individuals on ability and seniority and, where ability is sufficient to perform the required duties, seniority shall govern. When an employee permanently transfers to a new classification, his seniority in that new classification shall be from the initial date of hire, as it was in his former classification.
The Company will provide minimum training to employees who have the required academic skills. The Company will provide training to individuals whose qualifications closely match those of the job competition. For example, a trades person requiring some computer training for an inventory/stockroom position.
15:03:01- (b) “Notwithstanding paragraph (a), when filling permanent vacancies in positions at a particular plant (hereinafter referred to as the “home plant”), the following sequence and process shall apply:
(1)	The vacancy shall first be posted only in the home plant of the vacancy and bargaining unit members in that plant shall have the first opportunity to apply and the successful candidate shall be selected according to the provisions of Clause 15:03:01(a);
(2)	If the vacancy is not filled pursuant to Paragraph (1) above, it shall then be posted on the bulletin boards in all other plants of the Company. Bargaining unit members in those plants shall have the next opportunity to apply and the successful candidate shall be selected according to the provisions of Clause 14:03:01(a), except if there are more than one candidate who has the sufficient ability to perform the required duties of the position, their seniority ranking shall be based upon current dates of hire. The successful candidate shall carry his Company service, but not his former plant seniority, to his new plant.
(3)	If the vacancy is not filled pursuant to Paragraphs (1) and (2) above, the casual employees in the home plant of the vacancy shall then have the opportunity to apply and the successful candidate shall be selected based upon sufficient ability to perform the required duties and if more than one such casual has that ability, the candidate with the earliest current date of hire will be selected;
(4)	If the vacancy is not filled pursuant to Paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) above, the Company may fill the vacancy in any manner it may determine.
CollectiveAgreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW - APRIL 1,2006 ■ DECEMBER31,2009
16
15:03:02 - Vacancies and new positions of a permanent nature within the bargaining unit shall be posted on the plant bulletin board for five (5) working days, with all members of the bargaining unit having the right to apply.
15:03:03 - Employees exercising their seniority rights in a permanent lay-off or job redundancy will be granted their preference in another job classification on a permanent move to which their seniority and ability entitles them. An employee transferred to a new classification as a result of job redundancy whose former job re-opens within one (1) year, will have the right to return to that job without a job posting. If there is more than one employee affected, seniority will govern.
15:03:04 - Employees who move into another job classification as a result of a temporary posting or the application of their seniority for more than three (3) days shall have all the rights with respect to the overtime distribution within that job classification as the regular employees within that job classification. Employees working in a job classification for less than three (3) days retain the rights to overtime in their regularjob classification but do not acquire any overtime rights in the job classification in which they are temporarily working.
15:03:05 - I n the event of a reduction of the workforce at Port-au-Choix plant as a result of lack of work, the Unit President and Union Stewards shall be deemed to have the most seniority within their classification while holding office and shall continue to be deemed to have the most seniority within their classification for purposes of recall while holding office. Where there is more than one (1) employee in a classification to which this clause applies they should be laid-off and recalled in accordance with their actual seniority, as between them. An Executive member will have priority over a steward in his classification. Any President or Union Steward may choose to opt out of this provision if they do so in writing, filed with the Company.
I n the event of a reduction of the workforce in Bonavista and Triton plants as a result of lack of work, the Unit President shall be deemed to have the most seniority within his/her classification while holding office and shall continue to be deemed to have the most seniority within his/her classification for purposes of recall while holding office.
15:04
15:05
(1)	Seniority shall be recorded on a plant-wide and classification basis.
(2)	Seniority shall be applied on the basis of classification for extended lay-off due to the Christmas holidays; for lay-off including interruption in work due to temporary work shortages lasting up to three (3) working days, for regular work performed by employees who normally perform a specific duty.
(3)	Plant-wide seniority shall apply for all other lay-offs which extend beyond three (3) working days. Employees will be advised of lay-offs of more than thirty (30) days' duration in writing.
(4)	During a lay-off as outlined in 15:04 (2) employees with seniority shall not be displaced by employees without seniority.
Whenever the Company finds it necessary to make a selection for any of the above matters on any basis other than seniority, the Company agrees to review, before the selection is made, with the proper Union Officials or Representative, its reasons therefore.
COLLECTOEAGREHVeJT-FPI & FFAW/CAW -APRIL1,2006- DECEVBB*31,2009
17
15:06
15:07:01
02
03
:04-
15:08
15:09
When overtime is worked it shall be shared as evenly as possible among employees in the classification worked. Where overtime is to be offered to employees outside the classification to be worked, and, the use of such outside employees is foreseen before the end of the afternoon half shift rest period of a regular shift, then the Company will post a notice to such effect and will choose employees from outside the classification on the basis of seniority and ability of those who have indicated, to the appropriate supervisor, willingness to work.
All temporary transfers of employees for periods of three (3) working days or less shall be at the discretion of the Company.
When the Company decides to fill a temporary vacancy, as defined in clause :03 hereof, of more than three (3) working days by the transfer of other employees, it shall post a notice of its intention. Employees who have indicated that they wish to transfer on a temporary basis will be selected on the basis of seniority, provided they have sufficient ability to perform the work. The successful applicant will be paid at the rate of the posted position. Should no seniority employee express an interest, the Company may temporarily transfer an employee subject to his right to decline on the basis of seniority, provided there is a more junior employee available who possesses sufficient ability to perform the work required.
Temporary vacancies for the purposes of this Clause are defined as vacancies arising from sickness, industrial accident, leave of absence, or vacation. In all other cases vacancies may only be considered temporary for a period not exceeding thirty (30) working days, except where there is mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, to permit a longer period. Temporary transfers of more than three (3) working days are related only to temporary vacancies.
Experience acquired by employees during temporary assignments or temporary transfers, or by casuals, shall not be used against regular employees, who have more seniority, in deciding on the filling of permanent vacancies or transfers.
Employees shall retain and accumulate seniority:
(a)	While on lay-off up to twenty-four (24) months;
(b)	While on sick leave, Workers' Compensation, pregnancy leave;
(c)	While on leave of absence; or
(d)	Where a seniority employee is promoted to a permanent vacancy or to a new position outside the Bargaining Unit for a period(s) totaling One (1) calendar year. Time periods shall be cumulative on the basis of appointment by calendar months, not the employees' working months.
Employees shall lose all seniority if:
(a)	Discharged for just cause
(b)	Quit;
(c)	Fail to return to work without just cause following lay-off and after being notified of the availability of work.
(d)	Pursuant to clause 17:03
The Local Unitwill be given notice prior to the removal of employees' names from the seniority list under (c) above.
CollectiveAgreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW -AprilI, 2006 ■ December 31,2009
18
15:10 -	Early and Safe Return to Work: Local management and local Union Executives (at each site or
between or among different sites) shall work together to assist employees make an early and safe return to work after being off due to serious illness or injury. This will also apply to crewmembers from the Company's vessels needing such accommodation. All parties will use their best efforts to have the employee accommodated according to the requirements of relevant legislation. However, such accommodation shall not cause the displacement of an employee having greater seniority than the employee to be accommodated. The accommodation shall be of a temporary duration only for the purpose and to the extent of enabling the accommodated employee to be able to return to his/her normal job. If, while being accommodated, the employee is occupying a job other than in his regular classification,
he will be paid at the rate of his regular classification, and if that job is in another site, the employee shall still be treated as if he/she were working in or on his/her home plant or vessel. The parties agree that this Clause fully and accurately describes, in the circumstances of the Company's operations, their duty to reasonably accommodate to the point of undue hardship employees with limited functional abilities.
15:11	The Union and the Company recognize that predictability in the quantity and/or quality of fish
landed is, in practice, non-existent and that lay-offs, of necessity, must from time to time occur. In that regard, the parties with the intention of nullifying the effect of The Labour Standards Act, declare that the provisions for individual and group layoffs are more advantageous than the minimum standard set forth in the Act and further agree that the employer and the employee shall be and hereby are required to give to the other equal notice of termination of employment relationship which such notice shall be one day unless the reason is discharge for cause in which event termination shall be without notice.
ARTICLE 16 - Safety
16:01 -	The Company and the Union recognize the importance of Safety in the workplace. It is the
intention of both parties to achieve and maintain, through mutual co-operation, the highest standards in all areas affecting the health and safety of plant employees.
16:02: -	Legislation - The parties recognize all provisions and existing legislation related to Occupational
Health and Safety.
16:03:01- Committees - The parties are agreed to the continuance and establishment of the following Committees which will provide an overall framework to deal with all issues related to Occupational Health and Safety and accident prevention.
16:03:02- The parties agree to the establishment of a corporate Health and Safety Committee comprised of three (3) members from management and three (3) members selected by the Union. This Committee will assess, review and advise on all matters related to Health and Safety involving the operation of the plants.
The Corporate Health and Safety Committee shall meet at least two (2) times a year to:
:01- Review and analyze Health and Safety data for all plants and participate in the development of the appropriate programs;
:02 - Review all matters referred to it by the Health and Safety Committees;
CollectiveAgreement - FPI & FFAW/CAW - april 1,2006 • December 31,2009
19
:03 - Review and analyze standards and regulations affecting Health and Safety Programs within the Company;
:04 - Review and recommend guidelines for plant training and education;
:05 - Make recommendations to achieve the highest standards and best possible results in Safety, Health, and Accident Prevention.
16:03:03 - There shall be a plant Health and Safety Committee established at each plant comprised of three (3) plant employees nominated by the Union and three (3) representatives from management. These Health and Safety Committees shall meet monthly, during working hours without loss of pay and benefits, and make a report in writing. A copy of the Committee's report shall be sent to the Safety Branch established under the Occupational Health and Safety Act as well as to the Union. The Safety Committees shall be responsible for setting the time and place of Safety Committee monthly meetings.
The plant Health and Safety Committee will:
:01 - Review and make recommendations concerning any unsafe conditions and the stoppage of any unsafe work;
:02 - Be enrolled in the mandatory three (3) day training
:03 - Review and make recommendations concerning all chemical applications within the plant;
:04 - Review and make recommendations for Health and Safety training and education;
:05 - Review and make recommendations on environmental test results;
16:04 -	It is agreed that a Union representative has a right to be involved in any accident investigation
involving serious disablement or fatality. The Plant Safety Committee will be advised of other than routine investigations carried out by the Company Safety personnel at their location.
16:05 -	Emergency drills will be carried out on Company time twice annually, the time to be
determined by the Plant Safety Committee in relation to the anticipated operating period.
16:06 -	All plants will be provided with a properly equipped First Aid facility. A qualified First Aid
attendant will be available.
16:07 -	Two (2) members of the Committee shall be designated by the Committee to make tours of the
entire plant checking for unsafe conditions or practices. Frequency of the tours shall be determined by the Committee.
16:08 -	An inspection of the First Aid room shall be made every month by a person authorized by the
Company and the Union, to ensure that proper facilities and materials are provided.
16:09 -	The Safety Co-Chairperson or their designate shall accompany the Department of Safety
Inspectorwhen he makes his inspections.
16:10 -	Should an ammonia leak result in a stoppage of work, work will resume when ammonia levels
are acceptable according to Occupational Health and Safety regulations. Such levels are to be monitored by an air sampler. Safety Committee members shall participate in monitoring and shall have access to the readings.
CollectiveAgreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 - December31,2009
20
16:11
16:12 -16:13 -
16:1416:15 -16:17 -
16:1816:1917:01 -
When the First Aid attendant directs employees who have been injured on the premises, to a hospital or clinic for treatment, the Company will continue to pay such employees, to the end of their regular shift. Immediately following being released from treatment, employees who are able to return to work must do so and present the appropriate Workers' Compensation Forms to management. Employees shall participate in the Company's return to work program.
The Company shall designate a particular vehicle to be used in case of emergencies.
The Company will offer additional WHMIS sessions during the scheduled down-time periods of plants for those who are interested.
The Company will work with the Plant Health and Safety Committees to conduct Noise Level Surveys for each of the Plants and to initiate the appropriate ways and means to reduce noise and identify the problem areas.
The Company agrees to discuss, with the Plant Health and Safety Committee, safety issues related to the installation and use of new or relocated equipment in the plants.
The Company recognizes the importance of ergonomic considerations in the design and utilization of plants and equipment and the beneficial and improved working conditions for workers' safety, health and productivity.
The Company recognizes that the health of all employees can be severely affected by any infectious or communicable disease. It is agreed that the Company will work with the Plant Health and Safety Committees to develop a program whereby employees receive effective communication and education on serious infections or communicable diseases.
The Company agrees to work with the Plant Health and Safety Committees to identify areas where there are concerns with air quality and ventilation and to establish procedures for the correction of such problems.
ARTICLE 17 - Leave of Absence
(1)	The Company shall grant leave of absence, without pay, to an employee for reasons of Union activity or legitimate personal business including seeking and holding public office as a ProvincialM,H.A. or Federal M.P.
(2)	When a member of the Bargaining Unit has been elected or appointed to a local or regional municipal government body, he shall be granted leave of absence from time to time to attend legitimate council business providing such leave can be arranged so as not to interfere with the regular operations. Payment of such leave shall be at the sole discretion of the Company.
(3)	The Company shall grant leave of absence, without pay, to employees for upgrading of skills and technical courses. Such leave will be for periods not to exceed two (2) years. Where an employee is taking a job related specific course which requires three (3) years to complete, employees will be granted an additional year of leave to complete such programs. Employees who return to work from an educational leave of absence within the prescribed period will suffer no loss of seniority for the period of the approved leave of absence.
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT- FPI & FFAW/CAW - APRIL 1,2006 - DECEMBER 31,2009
21
17:02 -	The Company shall grant employees leave of absence for reasons of pregnancy. A pregnant
employee shall commence her leave at such time prior to the anticipated date of delivery as is recommended by her physician. The Company shall reinstate the employee at such future date following termination of pregnancy as is recommended by her physician, however, pregnancy leave shall not exceed nine (9) months unless supported by a medical certificate.
17:03 -	The Company shall grant leave of absence for reasons of bona fide illness, industrial accident or
disease. The employee's status will be reviewed at the end of the first year and annually
thereafter. An employee may only be removed from the seniority list where the parties mutually agree that the employee will be unlikely to return to work. The parties will seek the advice of an attending physician in determining the issue.
17:04:01- Plant employees who wish to fill vacancies on Company trawlers shall advise the Company in writing. Subject to work requirements, plant employees who have indicated their willingness to sail, on a temporary basis, and who have provided, to the Company's satisfaction, proof of suitable medical fitness, will be given the opportunity to fill temporary vacancies at sea or, for the movement of vessels out of port on other than a fishing trip.
:02-	Employees will be given as much notice as possible of the opportunity to fill a temporary
vacancy at sea. Employees shall be credited with twelve (12) hours per sea day and the income earned from sea time. Time and earnings, as applicable, will be included in the calculation of vacation and holiday benefits, pension calculations, and profit sharing.
:03-	Plant employees having permission to make trips to sea on Company trawlers will be regarded
as being on an approved leave of absence and shall retain and accrue seniority in their regular classification under this Agreement. Compensation for plant employees related to a trawler trip shall be as calculated under the provisions of the Collective Agreement applicable to Trawler Operations.
:04-	Where a number of plant employees have indicated their willingness to make a trip to sea filling
temporary vacancies on trawlers, it will be agreed, as part of local issues at each plant, how such trips will be shared among the employees.
:05-	If a plant employee who has taken a trip to sea returns during a work week, he will not be
entitled to displace the employee who is working in his place during that week.
17:05 -	When an employee who has seniority requests a leave of absence for compassionate reasons,
he should be granted such leave in accordance with the following:
1.	I n the event of death in the employee's immediate family - spouse (including common law) child, brother, sister, parent, or legal guardian, an employee shall receive five (5) days' leave with pay, calculated on the basis of the actual hours of work lost as a result cf the leave.
2.	In the event of the death of grandchild, mother-in-law or father-in-law, an employee shall be granted three (3) days' leave with pay, calculated on the basis of actual hours of work lost as a result of the leave.
3.	In the event of the death of a brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or great-grandparent, an employee shall be granted two (2) days' leave with pay, calculated on the basis of the actual hours of work lost as a result of the leave.
CollectiveAgreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 ■ December31,2009
22
4.	I n the event of bereavement leave applying to Category 1 or 2 above, where the funeral takes place outside the Province and is attended by the employee, he shall receive an extra day's leave with pay.
5.	Bereavement pay will not be granted if the employee is receiving pay for time not worked because of vacation or leave of absence, Workers' Compensation, group insurance or layoff at the time of death of the relative.
17:06 - The Company shall grant leave of absence without pay, for a period not to exceed thirty-five weeks, to an employee who is the parent of a child, following:
(a)	the birth of the child; or
(b)	the coming of the child into the care and custody of the parentfor the first time.
ARTICLE 18 - Grievance Procedure
18:01 -	When an employee has a grievance alleging there has been a violation or misinterpretation of
this Agreement the employee and/or a Shop Steward shall process such grievances without stoppage of work according to the following procedure:
STEP 1:	Discuss the matter, within three (3) days of becoming aware of the incident giving rise to the
grievance, with the foreman concerned who shall give a decision thereon within twenty-four (24) hours.
STEP 2:	I f the grievance is not resolved by the foreman, the Department Steward, the Chief Steward or
his designated alternate, and the grievor shall meet with the foreman and the appropriate supervisor in an effort to resolve the matter. Such a meeting will be held within three (3) working days of the conclusion of Step 1 and the Management Representative will notify the Chief Steward, Department Steward, and the grievor of the decision within twenty-four (24) hours.
STEP 3:	If the response is not acceptable, then the grievance shall be put in writing and submitted to
the Plant Manager or his designated representative who shall call a meeting within three (3) working days in an effort to resolve the matter. At this stage such other representatives of the Union, as may be designated, may be called in by the Union. The matter will be decided and a written reply given within three (3) working days.
STEP 4:	I f satisfactory disposition of the grievance is not made as a result of the meeting provided for in
Step 3 above, either party by written notice to the other, shall have the right to appeal the dispute to arbitration as herein provided.
18:02 -	The Union has the right to grieve on behalf of any employee or employees, including the right
to claim damages on behalf of the employee.
18:03 -	Grievances arising directly between the Union and the Company shall be submitted at Step 3
COLLECTIVE AGRfflVENT- FPI & FFAW/CAW-APRIL 1,2006 ■ DECEMBER 31,2009
23
18:04 -	The Company agrees that when an employee is to be disciplined, he shall be accompanied by
his Shop Steward. The employee and the Shop Steward may confer privately on the request of either of them. An employee may request, in the presence of his Shop Steward, that the Steward leave the meeting. All grievances at Steps 1, 2, and 3 shall be processed promptly on Company time with no loss of pay or benefits to the employees involved. Employees shall be accompanied by their Shop Steward at all times in meetings involved in each Step of the Grievance Procedure.
18:05-	In recognition of the importance of having matters in dispute resolved as quickly and
expeditiously as possible, the Company and the Union agree to co-operate and work jointly on ensuring a more effective application of the disputes resolution procedure under the terms of this Agreement. This activity shall include:
1.	Ensuring that grievances are filed as soon as a member of the Bargaining Unit or the Local Executive become aware of the issue.
2.	Ensuring that responses by the Company at each step of the grievance procedure are adhered to and that referrals by the Union to the next Step are not delayed.
3.	Implementing accelerated Arbitration Hearings for those grievances that cannot be resolved under the Grievance Procedure. This shall include the selection of a panel of arbitrators who shall agree to meet, preferably in rotation, on a regular basis to adjudicate grievances referred to them.
4.	The parties will endeavor to, as far as practically possible, and without prejudicing their position at arbitration, agree on the facts prior to an arbitration and will, where possible, proceed by way of stated case.
5.	The parties also agree that on each case they may by mutual agreement, waive the right to examine or cross-examine witnesses, or require the arbitrator to review all of the evidence within the body of the Award. The parties will also agree, where warranted, to accept oral judgments and decisions, subject to the right of either party to request a subsequent written Award.
ARTICLE 19 - Arbitration
19:01 -	Any matter in dispute between the Company and the Union involving the interpretation,
application, operation or alleged violation of any Article of this Agreement may, in the event of failure to reach agreement thereon, be referred by either party to arbitration by an arbitrator.
19:02 -	The party desiring to submit a matter to arbitration shall deliver to the other party a Notice of
Intention to Arbitrate within twenty (20) days after conclusion of the grievance procedure. This Notice shall state the matter at issue and shall state in what respect the terms of this Agreement have been violated or misinterpreted. The Notice shall also stipulate the nature of the relief or remedy sought.
19:03 -	Within five (5) days after the date of delivery of the foregoing Notice, both parties shall meet to
agree on the selection of the arbitrator.
19:04 -	If the parties cannot reach agreement on the selection of an arbitrator within five (5) days, then
either party may request the Minister of Labour and Manpower of the Province of Newfoundland to appoint an arbitrator.
19:05 -	After the arbitrator has been appointed by the foregoing procedure, the arbitrator shall convene
a meeting at the earliest possible date with both parties present. After hearing the evidence of both parties, the arbitrator shall render a decision as soon as possible, but in no event longer than thirty (30) days following the hearing.
COLLECTIVE AGRSVBVT- FPI & FFAW/CAW -AprilI, 2006 ■ DECEMBER31,2009
24
19:06 -	(1) Whenever the incident causing the grievance includes a loss in earnings or a loss in
benefits, the arbitrator is empowered to order that such loss in benefits, or part of such loss, shall be reimbursed or restored to the employee. In a disciplinary case, the arbitrator is empowered to order a reduced penalty.
(2)	In the case of an unjust dismissal or suspension, there shall be no onus on an employee to mitigate losses.
19:07 -	The decision of the arbitrator on the matter at issue shall be final and binding on both parties,
but in no event shall the arbitrator have the power to add to, subtract from, alter or amend the terms of this Agreement in any respect.
19:08 -	Either party shall be considered to have waived its right to raise preliminary objections to an
arbitration proceeding unless it files with the other party written reasons for such preliminary objections at the same time as the reply to Step 3 of the grievance.
19:09 -	The time limits referred to in the foregoing grievance and arbitration procedure may be
expanded or compressed by mutual consent, and shall be considered directional as opposed to mandatory.
19:10 -	No grievance shall be lost through error in form or technical irregularity.
19:11 -	Each party shall pay its own costs and the fees and expenses of its witnesses. The fees and
expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally between the parties. Members of the Bargaining Unit who are to be called as witnesses at arbitration hearings shall receive permission to be absent from work to attend such hearings.
ARTICLE 20 - Labour ManagementCommittees
20:01 -	The Company and the Union agree to co-operate in the continuation of the following joint
Labour/Management committees during the term of this Agreement.
fl^	Plant Labour-Management Committees
The Plant Labour-ManagementCommittees will continue to function during the term of this Agreement. Each Plant Labour- Management Committee shall meet at least monthly. The Plant Committees may consist of the equivalent number of the Executive of the appropriate Local plus one (1) member of the Safety Committee and an equal number of Company representatives. The function of these committees shall be to discuss matters of mutual interest and concern, to promote harmonious relations between the parties, to improve productivity and efficiency of operations and to maintain high product quality. Minutes will be recorded, approved by both parties, and posted in designated areas for the information of all employees.
(2^	Corporate, Labour-Management Committee
The Corporate, Labour-ManagementCommittee will meet not less than two (2) times in each calendar year. The Committee shall consist of five (5) representatives from each of the Union and the Company. The Company and the Union will alternately provide a place for the meetings and the secretarial service to ensure that there is an agreed and approved set of minutes from each meeting. The Corporate Labour-ManagementCommittee is intended as a forum to discuss issues related to the overall operation of the plants, within the context of the administration of this Agreement and the relationship between the Company and the Union.
COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT-FPI aFFAW/CAW-APRIL 1,2006- DECEMBER 31,2009
25
21:01:01
21:01:02
20:02
22:01
23:01
23:02
23:03
23:04
ARTICLE 21 - Group Insurance
The Company agrees to continue to participate in the joint trusteed Main group insurance plan.
During the term of this Agreement, it is agreed that:
(a)	While an employee, who is a member of the Main Plan, is at work, the actual monthly premium costs of the Plan, shall be cost-shared 54% Company/46%1 employee. The allocation of premium payments by the employee shall first be applied to Weekly Indemnity with the balance applied to the remaining benefits in such a manner as to result in the total cost of all premiums for insured benefits being shared on a 54%/46% basis.
(b)	While an employee, who is a member of the Main Plan, is not at work, the employee will be responsible for all premium costs of whatever coverage he is entitled to under the Main Plan.
A description of the Main Plan is set out in Schedule "E" for the benefit of all employees. The descriptions in Schedule "E" are not intended to be part of this Agreement as benefits are subject to the master policy for the Plan.
ARTICLE 22 - General
It is understood and agreed that if, in any department, circumstances arise for which no provision is made herein, the parties shall use their best endeavors to adjust the matter, but work shall proceed under the existing practice of the Company pending settlement between the parties.
ARTICLE 23 - Relief Sea-Going Engineers and Cooks
Subject to the conditions noted below, the Union agrees that in the event of an emergency where a ship would otherwise be unable to proceed to sea, the Company may require certain employees employed as repairmen and with the necessary qualifications and sea-going experience, to proceed to sea temporarily in the ships of the Company in their capacity as SeaGoing Engineers.
Such temporary service shall not be required to fill the place of a group of employees with whom the Company may be in dispute.
Employees temporarily transferred shall retain and accrue seniority in their regular classification. Employees shall be credited with twelve (12) hours per sea day and the income earned from sea time. Time and earnings as applicable will be included in the calculation of vacation and holiday benefits, pension calculation, and profit sharing.
Where the Company is aware, employees shall be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of the requirement to go to sea or as much notice as is possible and in no event shall the notice be less than the time required for a person to proceed home, get ready and return.
These cost-sharing percentages are based on the fact that premium increases following the Year 2001 have been allocated on a 50% Company/50% Employee cost-shared basis. Increases to the premiums that occur annually or at another time during the term of this Agreement will likewise be allocated on a 50% Company/50% Employee cost-shared basis, and the overall cost-sharing percentages will be adjusted accordingly,___________________________________________
CollectiveAgreement-FPI&FFAW/CAW-April1,2006-December 31,2009
23:05 -	Employees liable for sea-going duty in any emergency, shall be required to keep Management
notified of any personal or other reasons which may be reasonable and sufficient as to why they cannot take their turn at sea. Upon receipt of such information Management shall notify the employee whose turn is next, of his liability for sea duty.
23:05 -	Relief employees shall be asked, and are expected to go to sea in their turn. However, it is
understood that an employee may defer his turn provided there is reasonable and sufficient reason.
23:07 -	The remuneration payable to such employees while at sea shall be as per the Groundfish
Fleet Collective Agreement.
23:08 -	The Company will pay the cost of obtaining permits required by relief sea-going engineers who
have not acquired the necessary tickets.
23:09 -	When relief sea-going engineers or cooks are required to report for a scheduled sailing and the
scheduled sailing is delayed or cancelled, they shall be compensated at the appropriate rate for actual hours of work lost ashore.
23:10-	Approval may be granted for the exchange of work between marine maintenance personnel and
marine engineers for a specific trip or a specific number of trips, where it is mutually agreed between the Company and the employees, for the purpose of either one or the other to obtain certification or experience either ashore or at sea. During an exchange, each employee will work under the terms and conditions of the applicable Collective Agreement in place at the time. Exchanges will only be permitted where each employee can perform the work required in the other classification.
ARTICLE 24 - Apprenticeship Plan
24:01 -	In order to ensure an adequate supply of trained employees to maintain and operate its plants,
the Company will hire apprentices in accordance with approved Journeyman Apprenticeship Plans of relevant department of the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador. (See Appendix 1 - 'Tradesman B Training Program".)
24:02 -	The Company will recognize the following trades for apprenticeship plans:
Machinist, Electrician, Diesel Mechanic-(Industrial Mechanic), Welder, Millwrightand Carpenter.
24:03 -	Upon satisfactory completion of a probationary period in accordance with Article 15:02 an
apprentice will have his seniority established from that date.
24:04 -	Wages paid to apprentices shall be based on the following schedule.
(a)	Four Year Apprenticeship
Firstyear- 75 percent of Journeyman "A" Rate Second year - 80 percent of Journeyman "A" Rate Third year-87 percent of Journeyman "A" Rate Fourth year - 92 1/2 percent of Journeyman "A" Rate
(b)	Three Year Apprenticeship
Firstyear - 70 percent of Journeyman "A" Rate Second year - 80 percent of Journeyman "A" Rate Third year - 90 percent of Journeyman "A" Rate
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - FPI & FFAW/CAW - APRIL 1,2006 ■ DECEMBER 31,2009
27
24:05 -	Classifications shall be defined as follows:
(1)	Grade "AA" Journeyman
Holder of a Provincial Government Journeyman Certificate and two (2) years' additional experience as a Journeyman "A".
(2)	Grade (A) Journeyman
(a)	Holder of Provincial Government Journeyman Certificate; or
(b)	Five (5) years additional experience in "Tradesman B" classification.
(3)	2nd, 3rd, and 4th Year Apprentices:
Twelve (12) months employment and apprenticeship training as laid down by Apprenticeship Branch plus successful writing of final examinations in lower category.
(4)	1st. Year Apprentice:
Minimum six (6) months practical experience as maintenance helper plus registration and acceptance into Apprenticeship Program by Apprenticeship Branch.
ARTICLE 25 - Office Staff
25:01 -	Schedule "D" which forms part of this Agreement specifies the classifications and wage rates of
office staff in Burin, Marystown, Port Union, and Port-au-Choix; Articles of this Agreement which apply to office staff in common with other employees, covered by this Agreement, are specified in Schedule "D",
ARTICLE 26 - Technological Change
26:01 -	In keeping with the Company's policy of having employees informed, the Company agrees to
communicate with the Union on technological change. This shall be done through the vehicle of the Labour Management Committees referred to in Article 20. Unless the circumstances do not reasonably permit, the Company will provide at least thirty (30) days notice prior to implementing technological change that will cause any job classification to be declared redundant.
ARTICLE 27 - Harassment Based on Gender
27:01 -	The Company and the Union agree to take every reasonable action to eliminate sexual
harassment in the workplace.
27:02 -	Complaints under this Article will be dealt, by the employer and the Union, with all possible
confidentiality.
collectiveAgreement-FPI & FFAW/CAW-April 1,2006 ■ december31, 2009
28
ARTICLE 28 - Transfers and Relocations
28:01:01- The Company will give preference of employment to seniority employees, within the Province, who wish to transfer from one operating division to another or, who seek employment at another Company operation within the Province as a result of having to relocate their permanent residence.
Subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable Collective Agreement in place at the time, and the conditions prescribed in this Article, the Company will recognize an employee's length of service for the purposes of calculating vacation and holiday entitlement and profit sharing within a year if the employee is otherwise eligible.
28:01:02-	Transfers:
Employees wishing to be transferred from one operating division to another (plant to trawler) or to another location within an operating division, shall apply in writing to the appropriate manager with a copy to their current manager. Such transfers are subject to the following conditions:
(1)	Seniority accumulated in one division or at one specific location within a division is not transferable to another division or location.
(2)	Transfers are intended to be permanent and employees have no right of transfer back to their former location or position.
(3)	Employees transferred from one operating division to another would have to complete the probationary requirements of the appropriate Collective Agreement in place at the time.
(4)	Employees transferred within an operating division will not have to complete a probationary period but must have the ability to perform the work if the transfer involves a new classification.
28:01:03 - Relocations:
Seniority employees of the Company who relocate on a permanent basis within the Province, will be given preference of employment and recognition of corporate service as defined in :01:01, subject to the following terms and conditions:
(1)	The employee must have resigned or quit employment for personal reasons related to the relocation;
(2)	The Company must be advised, in writing, at the time of the resignation or quitting that the employee wishes to obtain employment at another specified location and, an application, in writing, must be filed at that new location.
(3)	Seniority acquired by the employee is not transferable.
(4)	The employee must be re-employed by the Company at the specified location within six (6) months of resignation and application for employment.
COLLECTIVEAgreement - FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 • DECEMBER 31,2009
29
(5) Employees rehired at a new location will not be required to complete a probationary period other than to demonstrate an ability to perform the work, if employed in a different classification from that in which they had previously been employed.
ARTICLE 29 - Casual Employees
29:01	This Article is intended to apply to the use of casual employees, all as defined herein, during the
term of this Agreement. The Company confirms that the use of casuals shall not displace or reduce the number of regular employees required by the Company to carry out its normal operations at each plant.
29:02 -	For the purpose of this Article, and to assist the parties in the administration of this
Agreement, casual employees are defined as individuals employed by the Company as required, to work without notice, to fill short-term vacancies or provide additional manpower, on an hourly or daily basis.
29:03 -	Where the local plant practice involves more than a minimal number of casuals, casuals will be
ranked by either hours of work or date of hire, as per local agreement, and will be selected for work in that order, as their names appear, provided they have the ability to perform the work required. Any refusal by a casual who has the ability to perform the work offered, will result in his/her name being removed from the list.
29:04 -	Where casuals are hired they shall be paid at the rate of Job Grade I.
The regular hours of work in any department apply to casuals working in that department. Where applicable, work performed by casuals outside the regular hours of work in that department, would be subject to premium rates.
29:05 -	Where there is a shortage of regular work for seniority employees in their own department, they
may replace any casuals employed in another department, provided they can perform the work required, and have advised their foreman of their desire to continue at work. Such replacements are only to apply where there is at least one-half hour of work available to the seniority employee.
29:06 -	When the Company posts a permanent vacancy or new position, casuals having the ability to
perform the work, shall be offered permanent employment based on the ranking of the eligible casuals. Casuals offered permanent employment must accept the offer. Failure to accept a permanent position and attain seniority, will result in the individuals being placed at the bottom of the casuals list in rank. Casual employees, accepted in permanent positions, will not be required to complete the probationary period, unless they have not had the equivalent of sixty (60) working days in the position to which they have been permanently assigned.
29:07 -	For each two hundred and twenty (220) hours worked, Casuals shall be paid eight
(8) hours at their straight time rate in lieu of paid holidays under Article 13:02.
29:08 -	When employed by the Company, casuals have no right to attain or accrue seniority, and have
no other benefits related to their employment except as provided in this Article.
CollectiveAgreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 • DECBVBBR31,2009
30
ARTICLE 30 - Amendment
30:01 -	Subject always to the right of determination as in the following Article provided, it is distinctly
understood and agreed that the Agreement is in no way to be regarded as being rigid or inflexible, but that it may be amended, altered, or changed from time to time as may be agreed by and between the parties hereto, and such amendments, alterations, or changes, when so
agreed upon, shall have full force and effect, and form part of this Agreement immediately after it is so agreed upon.
The rights of either of the parties hereto to seek amendment shall arise only after that party has given to the other party thirty (30) days' notice, in writing, stating clearly the matter or matters proposed to be amended together with the proposed amendment or amendments. The necessary meeting shall be held immediately after the expiration of the said thirty (30) days' notice unless another date is mutually agreed upon. In the event of any alterations, amendments, or changes being agreed to by both parties then, and in such case only, shall this Agreement be amended, altered, or changed and shall thereafter continue in force as Article 31 provided.
ARTICLE 31 - Term of Agreement and Re-opener
31:01 (a) Subject to the terms of this Article and the creation of a $3 million Worker Transition Fund, this Agreement is effective commencing April 1, 2006 and continuing ih effect until and including December31, 2009.
(b)	I fa $3 million Worker Transition Fund is not implemented by FPI, FFAW/CAW has the right to give notice to commence bargaining with a view to renewal or revision
i	of this Collective Agreement with effect from April 1, 2007 upon thirty (30) days
1	written notice to the Employer. Upon the giving of notice to commence bargaining
A	all provisions of the Labour Relations Act shall apply and the agreement shall
'	continue to apply in the manner provided as of March 31, 2007 until all of the
negotiation requirements of the Labour Relations Act are complied with.
(c)	The terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement between the parties covering the period January 1, 2003 until and including March 31, 2005 are incorporated herein and apply for the period April 1, 2006 until and including March 30, 2007, but no retroactive liability, financial or otherwise, shall accrue to the Employerfor such period. Subject to the terms of this Article, effective March 31, 2007, the provisions of this Agreement apply for the balance of its term.
Subject to Paragraph (e) below, if, during the term of this Agreement, the Employer sells any of its plants covered by this Agreement, effective the date of such sale, all of the terms of this Agreement shall be re-opened for negotiation to apply only to any such plants sold, upon the Union or the purchaser of such plants giving to the other party thirty (30) days written notice. During such negotiation, the terms of this Agreement will continue to apply at such plants until all of the negotiation requirements of the Labour Relations Act are complied with. Notwithstanding such re-opened negotiations, the terms of this Agreement shall continue to apply to all of the Employer's remaining plants covered by this Agreement.
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT- FPI & FFAW/CAW - APRIL 1, 2006 ■ DECEMBER 31, 2009
31
Wr
(e)	Notwithstanding Paragraph (d) above, in the event Ocean Choice International (OCI) purchases the primary group plants of FPI covered by this Agreement, neither FFAW/CAW nor OCI will have the right to re-open this agreement before Its expiry date of December 31, 2009 except as provided for in Paragraph (b) above.
(f)	Subject to the terms of this Article, this; Collective Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until December 31, 2009 following which itshalt automatically renew itself from year to year unless notice is given by either party to the other within ninety (90) days next preceding the 31st day of December 2009, or anniversary date thereof, of a desire to amend or terminate this Agreement. During the course of any negotiations subsequentto such notice being given, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until all of the negotiation requirements of the Labour Relations Act are compliedwith.
31:02	11 is understood that this Collective Agreement replaces agreements and understandings that
may have been In effect by and between the parties hereto.
31:03	This Collective Agreement represents* the entire understanding between the parties There are
no other terms, conditions, obligations or understandings either express or implied which are binding or enforceable other than these specifically set forth in this Collective Agreement or a Schedule thereto, or a concurrent Letter of Understanding executed in conjunction with the execution of this Collective Agreement or a Memorandum of Understanding executed by the parties hereto concurrent with or during the term of this Collective Agreement amending or modifying the terms or conditions of this Collective Agrement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties.to this Collective Agreement have hereunto their hands and seals subscribed and set this	dav of	. 2007.
SIGNED. SEALED AND DEL1/ERED1 THE PRESENCE OF:
DDUCTS INTERNATIONAL LTD.
INTHE PRESENCE OF:
FISH, FOOD AND ALLIED WORKERS UNION (Chartered by
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEES
Fish. Food & Allied Workers fFFAW/CAW")
Fishery Products International Ltd
Allan Moulton Frank Mitchell Bev Dyke Ray Reid DennisAyles Vince Martin Max Rose Rose Reid Earle McCurdy Greg Pretty
Tracey Hannam Barry Randell BoydTremblett Jim Dalton Alicia Patey Lonas Mayo Rick Smith Austin Noseworthy Ben Baker Pius Power
Barry Vincent HughSlaney Jack Rowe Murray Dicks Sadie Popovitch EricDurnford, QC
CCUECTWEAGREEMENT - FPI & FFAW/CAW - APRIL 1,2006 ■ DECEIVBER31,2009
33
TRADESMEN "B" TRAINING PROGRAM
APPENDIX 1
Maintenance Classifications
1.	In addition to the Apprenticeship Plan (Article 24) the Company will also recognize training other than through Provincial Government's Apprenticeship Program for Maintenance Employees.
Training other than under the Apprenticeship Plan will be known as the "Tradesman B-Training Progranf.
The Company will recognize 1800 hours constitutes One (1) year's work in the Tradesmen "B" -Training Program.
2.	The Company will recognize the following trades for the Tradesmen B - Training Program: -Machinist, Electrician, Diesel Mechanic - (Industrial Mechanic), Welders, Millwrights, Carpenters, Baader Mechanics and Riggers (wire splicer, etc.).
3.	The following "Definitions of Classifications" will apply to "Tradesman B" and to Tradesman B Trainees:
Grade "B" Tradesmen:
(j)	Completion of four (4) years (48 months) approved training in tradesmen trainee program, commencing with twelve (12) months as helper, etc.
(ii)	Holder of fishing chief engineers, or 4th class Marine (M.O.T.) Ticket, plus two (2) years (24 months) experience as trawler chief engineer.
(iii)
Minimum four (4)years (48 months) proven experience and training in work associated with trade for which classification is being sought.
2nd and 3rd Year Trainee Tradesmen:
Satisfactory completion of twelve (12) months work in lower wage category.
1st Year Trainee Tradesmen:
Twelve (12) months as maintenance helper.
4.	Wage paid to Tradesmen B Trainee shall be based on the following schedule:
Maintenance Helper- As per "Schedule B"
First Year Tradesman B Trainee - 83 percent of Tradesman B Rate Second Year Tradesman B Trainee - 87 percent of Tradesman B Rate Third Year Tradesman B Trainee - 92 Vz percent of Tradesman B Rate
CollectiveAgreement-FPI&FFAW/CAW-April1,2006-December31, 2009
34
5.	Where existing personnel are involved, they would be classified by agreement with the Union, and in accordance with definitions of classifications as outlined herein, and henceforth all workers would then be governed by the proposed format.
6.	Upon completion of five (5) years as certified Tradesman B in a trade recognized by the Newfoundland and Labrador Provincial Apprenticeship and Certification Board, the employee will then qualify for the Journeyman "A" Rate. Tradesmen "B" who receive Journeyman rate cannot advance to the "AA" rate.
7.	Definition of Journeyman "A" classification:
1.	Holder of the Provincial Government Journeyman Certificate
or
2.	Five (5) years experience with the Company as a certified Tradesman B, recognized by the Newfoundland and Labrador Provincial Apprenticeship and Certification Board.
4. Definition of Journeyman "AA" classification:
1.	Holder of the Provincial Government Journeyman certificate plus two (2) additional years of experience as a certified Journeyman "A".
COLLECTIVEAGRfflVBIT - FPI & FFAW/CAW - APRIL 1,2006- DECEMBER 31,2009
35
SCHEDULE “A”
Job______________and Wage Rates
Effective
Classification Description Job Grade ■ =
Casual Workers Job Grade 11:
Current March	April	April
31/07	1/08	1/09
$13.53	$12.47	$12.62	$12.87
i
$13.66	$12.6G	$12.75	$13.00
I.Q.F. Workers, Trimmers, Candlers, Boners, Wormers, Graders, Cullers, Receiving (Shed) Room Workers, Skinning Machine Feeders, Plate Freezer Workers, Cold Storage Workers, Pkg. Material Whse. Helper, Stevedoring Workers, Watchmen, Clean-Up Workers, Service Labour Workers, General Labourer, Offal Workers Packers,
Wrappers, Weighers, I.Q.F. Feeders, Secondary Processing Workers, First Aid Attendant, Shrimp Peelers, Inspectors, Wrapping Machine Feeders, Carton Folders, Pan Washers, Janitor, Mari-Pac Worker, Crab Plant Workers, Cookhouse Attendant
Job Grade 111:
$13.77	$12.71
$12.86	$13.11
Cutters, Trawler Discharge And leers, Flake Ice Workers, Payloader And Forklift Operator, Tallyman, Weighmaster, Crane Operator, ‘ Checkers (Bone, Defect, Work Content, Fish Count And Skinning Machine Checkers), Quality Control Assistant, Stockroom Clerk, Cutting Machine Operator, Sawman, 0008 MixerTender, Pkg. Material Warehouseman, Shrimp Peeler Operator, Shrimp Freezer Operator, Crab Butcher, Dockside Graders; Assistant Breading Line Operator; Assistant Process Cook.
Job Grade IV:
(a)	Night Trawler Attendant
(b)	Process Cook, Weigher/Bagger Operator
$14.08
$15.52
$13.02
$14.46
$13.17
$14.61
$13.42
$14.86
Job Grade V:
(a)	Qualified Reduction Plant Operators, Pressman, Drier, Evaporator, Separator
(b)	Unqualified Reduction Plant Operators
$17.44
$17.07
$16.38
$16.01
$16.53
$16.16
$16.78
$16.41
CollectiveAgreement-FPI&FFAW/CAW-April1,2006-December 31,2009
36
Classification Description Job Grade VI:
Tradesmen "B"
Current
$17.44
Job Grade VII:
(a)	Journeyman "AA"
(b)	Journeyman'A"
Job Grade VIII:
(a)	Truck Driver, Fuelman, Sailmaker
(b)	Breading Line Operator
Job Grade IX:
Crane Operator - Certified (70' Boom)
SHIFT ENGINEERS:
Refrigeration 'A" or 3rd Class Stationary Refrigeration "B" or 4th Class Stationary Uncertified Refrigeration (Learning)
$18.76
$18.19
$16.05
$16.31
$17.44
$18.19
$17.95
$17.07
$1.00 in addition to the above rates for all hours worked on Saturday; $2.00 in addition to the above rates for all hours worked on Sunday.
DISCHARGING & SORTING OF SHRIMP (DILDO):
Job Grade I: Discharge Workers, General Labourer, Spotter
Job Grade 11: Forklift & Crane Operators, Talleyperson
(New employees shall receive $0.40/hour less for the first 30 days
worked)
$13.66
$13.77
OFFICE STAFF - GROUP 2 First Year - 90%
Second Year - 95%
NOTES:-
$14.48
$13,03
$13.76
Effective
March	April
31/07	1/08
$17.44	$17.44
$18.76	$18.76
$18.19	$18.19
$14.99	$15.14
$15.25	$15.40
$17.44	$17.44
$18.19	$18.19
$17.95	$17.95
$17.07	$17.07
$12.60	$12.75
$12.71	$12.86
$13.42	$13.57
$11.97	$12.12
$12.70	$12.85
April
1/09
$17.44
$18.76
$18.19
$15.39
$15.65
$17.44
$18.19
$17.95
$17.07
$13.00
$13.11
$13.82
$12.37
$13.10
1.	For existing positions in Job Grades VI, VII, IX and Shift Engineers, rates in the Agreement that expired on March 31, 2005 shall apply for the term of this Agreement; for all other positions, wages will be augmented by special supplementary payments from a Worker T ransition Fund, as follows:
Yearl (April 1,2007-March 31,2008) -60 cents per hour Year 2 (April 1, 2008 to March 31,2009) -45 cents per hour Year 3 (April 1, 2009 to December 31,2009) -20 cents per hour
2.	Calculations related to the hourly rate such as vacation pay, overtime, premium pay, El premiums, other payroll deductions etc will be calculated on the basis of the combined amount of the wage rate plus special supplementary payment. (Eg. for the benchmark classifications, these calculations will be based on the combined rate of $13.20).
CollectiveAgreement-FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006- December 31,2009
37
3.	The benchmark base rate is $13,00 per hour for the term of this Agreement. The additional $0,20 per hour is recognized as a special transition fund payment.
4.	Wage adjustments in Year 1 will be made, retroactively, in the pay period following the completion of the sale of the Seafood Company or at such earlier date as the Worker Transition Fund may be created.
5.	Changehands 20 cents per hour higher than rate supervised.
6.	Helpers and trainees - all categories - 20 cents per hour less than job stated.
7.	Fresh milk - the company agrees to maintain a supply of fresh milk available to welders when galvanized metals and/or aluminum materials are being welded.
8.	Shift differential - all employees working three (3) rotating shifts shall receive shift differential as follows:
□ 15 cents per hour on all hours worked on the 4-12 midnight shift;
□ 25 cents per hour on all hours worked on the 12-8 a.m. shift.
9.	New employees hired shall receive 40 cents less per hour than the applicable rate of the classification worked for a qualifying period of 30 days whereupon such employees shall be paid in accordance with the job grade that their classification entitles them.
10.	It is agreed that a $2.50 per hour premium will be paid to certified journeyman welders where the work actually performed requires a certificate.
11.	11 is agreed that a 10 cents per hour premium will be paid while welding aluminum, galvanized, and stainless steel.
12.	The Company agrees to the following formula for possible re-instatement of some or all of the above wage reductions based on periodic review of the exchange rate on the Canadian dollar:
•	During the life of the Collective Agreement, the wage rates in Schedule "A" will be adjusted, up or down, as the value of the Canadian dollar fluctuates in relation to the value of the US dollar (exchange rate). The base reference point shall be $US1,00 = $CAN1,18/ with a maximum adjustmentto$CANl,57,
•	For every point of change in the previous three-month average exchange rate, the wage rateshall be adjusted by three (3) cents per hour.
•	Commencing with the date of signing this Collective Agreement, the amount of any adjustment, up or down, shall be determined at three-month intervals based on the movement in the previous three-month average exchange rate.
•	At any date between the date of signing of this Collective Agreement up to and including December 31, 2009, the base wage rate shall not be adjusted below the agreed applicable wages detailed above.
13.	If the sale of the Primary Group plants to Ocean Choice International (OCI) occurs, the FFAW/CAW and OCI will meet to work out details of a currency adjustment formula as per Recommendation #4 of the majority Conciliation Board Report chaired by Deborah Fry, with referenceto a third party for a decision if the parties are unable to agree.
CollectiveAgreement-FPI & FFAW/CAW -April 1,2006 ■ December31,2009
38
SCHEDULE"B"
IradesiwM .
TRADESMAN "B"
4 YEAR APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM 1st. Year Apprentice (75%)
2nd. Year Apprentice (80%)
3rd. Year Apprentice (87%)
4th. Year Apprentice (92 V2%) JOURNEYMAN"A
3 YEAR APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM 1st. Year Apprentice (70%)
2nd. Year Apprentice (80%)
3rd. Year Apprentice (90%) JOURNEYMAN "AA"
and a Schedules
Current March 31, Rate	2007
$17.44	$17.44
$13,64	$13.64
$14.55	$14.55
$15.83	$15.83
$16,83	$16.83
$18.19	$18.19
$13.13	$13.13
$15.01	$15.01
$16.88	$16.88
$18.76	$18.76
April 1, April 1, 2008	2009
$17.44	$17.44
$13.64	$13.64
$14.55	$14.55
$15.83	$15.83
$16.83	$16.83
$18.19	$18.19
$13.13	$13.13
$15.01	$15.01
$16.88	$16.88
$18.76	$18.76
Collective Agreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW-April 1,2006 ■ December 31,2009
39
HOURS OF WORK2
SCHEDULE“C”
1.	Bonavista and Triton
2.	Burin Secondary
3.	South Dildo
4.	Marystown
5.	Port au Choix and Port Union
a.	Fresh Production
b.	Industrial Production/Maturing
c.	Industrial Production/Cooking
d.	Clean-up
e.	Discharge
f.	Bagging
2 The hours of work, rest and meal periods in the Schedule are intended to describe the norm for the employees concerned, but it is agreed that adjustments to these may be made from time to time at the local level by agreement between the local executive and local management.
CollectiveAgreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW- April 1,2006 • December31,2009
40
1.	BONAVISTA & TRITON
Consistent with present practice, work will be done usually on an 8-hour shift basis, the precise hours subject to the availability of raw material and with preference given to the senior shift.
2.	BURIN SECONDARY
The hours of work for secondary processing are as follows:
Day Shift	Night Shift
Production Workers:
Processing3	7:15/7:30 am -	4:45/5:00 pm -
3:45/4:00 pm	1:15/1:30 am
Packaging	8:00 am - 4:30 pm 5:30 pm-2:00 am
3.	SOUTH DILDO
Consistent with present practice, discharging and sorting work will be done usually on a 12-hour shift basis and processing work usually on an 8-hour shift basis, the precise hours subject to the availability of raw material.
The actual start time will be determined by processing requirements
CollectiveAgreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW-April 1,2006 • December 31,2009
41
4. MARYSTOWN
Department I Classification	Including	Day Shift Start time	Night Shift Start time	Third Shift
Discharge		Subjt	o Landings	
Shed		7:00 AM	4:00 PM	
Cutting Machines		7:15 AM	4:15 PM	
Handlines		7:15 AM	4:15 PM	
Fish Racks		7:15 AM	4:15 PM	
Trimmers	iervice Labour, Defect Checkers	7:30 AM	4:30 PM	
	Cnlfe Sharpener, Prod Clean up			
Skinners		7:30 AM	4:30 PM	
Mincing		7:15 AM	4:15 PM	
Packers	iervice Labour	8:15 AM	5:15 PM	
Cozzini Operator		8:00 AM	5:00 PM	
Cozzini Assistant		7:15 AM	4:15 PM	
IQF Feeders (Wet Fillets)		7:45 AM	4:45 PM	
IQF Frozen Product		8:00 AM	5:00 PM	
Freeze & Mastering		8:00 AM	5:00 PM	
Janitor		8:00 AM	5:00 PM	
Cold Storage		8:00 AM	5:00 PM	
Carton Room Attendant		8:00 AM		
Clean up		Subj to Prod		
Electricians( Rotating)		7:00:00 AM	5:00 PM	
Electrician (Days)		*8:00 AM		
General Maintenance		8:00 AM		
Prod Maintenance		8:00 AM	4:00 PM	12:00 MN
Engineers		8:00 AM	8:00 PM	
Watchmen		8:00 AM	4:00 PM	12:00:00 MN
*with Half Hour Unpaid Lunch Break.				
collectiveagreement- FPl & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 -December 31,2009
42
5	PORT AU CHOIX AND PORT UNION
(a) Fresh Production
WEEK 1	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	B	B	B	B	A	A	A
	EVENING	A	A	C	C	C	C	B
WEEK 2	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	A	C	C	C	C	B	B
	EVENING	B	B	B	A	A	A	A
WEEK 3	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	B	B	A	A	A	A	C
	EVENING	C	C	C	C	B	B	B
WEEK 4	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	C	C	C	B	B	B	B
	EVENING	B	A	A	A	A	C	C
WEEK 5	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	A	A	A	A	C	C	C
	EVENING	C	C	B	B	B	B	A
WEEK 6	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	C	B	B	B	B	A	A
	EVENING	A	A	A	C	C	C	C
WEEK 7	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	A	A	C	C	C	C	B
	EVENING	B	B	B	B	A	A	A
WEEK 8	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	B	B	B	A	A	A	A
	EVENING	A	C	C	C	C	B	B
WEEK 9	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	C	C	C	C	B	B	B
	EVENING	B	B	A	A	A	A	C
WEEK	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
10	DAY	B	A	A	A	A	C	C
	EVENING	c	C	c	B	B	B	B
CollectiveAgreement-FPI&FFAW/CAW-April 1, 2006 ■ December31,2009
43
WEEK 11	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	C	C	B	B	E	B	A
	EVENING	A	A	A	A	C	C	C
WEEK 12	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	A	A	A	C	C	C	C
	EVENING	C	B	B	E	B	A	A
Brine Mixer operator's schedule starts 30 minutes early and finishes 30 minutes early Tub feeder and Cooker Operators schedule starts 15 minutes early and finishes.
15 minutes early.
DEFINITION OF SHIFTS SUNDAY: 12:00 NOON - 5:00 PM DAY SHIFT: 7:00 AM TO 5:00 PM EVENING SHIFT: 5:00 PM TO 3:00 AM
REST/ LUNCH BREAK SCHEDULE
COMMENCE TO END OF 1ST HOUR - ALL WORKING
2ND HOUR - 10 MIN BREAKS
HOUR 2.0 TO 2.5 - ALL WORKING
HOUR2.5 TO 3.5 - 10 MIN BREAKS
HOUR 3,5 TO 4.5 - ALL WORKING
HOUR4.5 TO 6.5 - 20 MIN LUNCH BREAK
HOUR6.5 TO 7.5 - 10 MIN BREAKS
HOUR7.5 TO 8.0 - ALL WORKING
HOUR8.0 TO 9.0 - 10 MIN BREAKS
HOUR 9.0 TO 10.0 - ALL WORKING
WHERE IN THE OPINION OF THE COMPANY THE RAW MATERIAL SUPPLY E SUCH THAT A THREE (3) SHIFT SYSTEM CANNOT BE UTILIZED EFFECTIVELY,THEN A TWO (2) SHIFT OR ONE (1) SHIFT SYSTEM WILL BE EMPLOYED BASED ON TEN (10) HOUR SHIFTS.
CollectiveAgreement - FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 • DECEMBER31,2009
44
(b)	Industrial Production/Maturing
WEEK 1	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	A	A	A	B	B	C	
	EVENING	B	B	C	C	A		C
WEEK 2	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	B	B	B	C	C	A	
	EVENING	C	C	A	A	B		A
WEEK 3	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	C	C	C	A	A	B	
	EVENING	A	A	B	B	C		B
WEEK 4	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	A	A	A	B	B	C	
	EVENING	S	B	C	C	A		C
WEEK 5	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	B	B	S	C	C	A	
	EVENING	C	C	A	A	B		A
WEEK 6	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	C	C	C	A	A	B	
	EVENING	A	A	B	B	C		B
WEEK 7	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	A	A	A	B	B	C	
	EVENING	B	B	C	C	A		C
WEEK 9	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	C	C	C	A	A	B	
	EVENING	A	A	B	fi	C		B
WEEK I O	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	A	A	A	B	B	C	
	EVENING	B	B	C	C	A		C
COLLECT1VEAGREEMENT- FPI & FFAW/CAW - APRIL 1,2006 • DBCBVBBR31,2009
45
WEEK 11	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	B	B	B	C	C	A	
	EVENING	C	C	A	A	B		A
WEEK 12	SHIFT	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	C	C	C	A	A	B	
	EVENING	A	A	B	B	C		B
Depending on the nature and supply of raw materials and time of season, it may be necessary to adjust the schedule for Maturing Workers
Brine Mixer operator's schedule starts 30 minutes early and finishes 30 minutes early Tub feeder and Cooker Operators schedule starts 15 minutes early and finishes.
15 minutes early.
DEFINITION OF SHIFTS DAY SHIFT: 7:00 AM TO 5:00 PM EVENING SHIFT: 5:00 PM TO 3:00 AM Saturday evening 7:00 pm to 5:00 am
REST / LUNCH BREAK SCHEDULE
COMMENCE TO END OF 1ST HOUR - ALL WORKING
2ND HOUR - 10 MIN BREAKS
HOUR2.0 TO 2.5 - ALL WORKING
HOUR2.5 TO 3.5 - 10 MIN BREAKS
HOUR 3.5 TO 4.5 - ALL WORKING
HOUR4.5 TO 6.5 - 20 MIN LUNCH BREAK
HOUR6.5 TO 7.5 - I 0 MIN BREAKS
HOUR 7.5 TO 8.0 - ALL WORKING
HOUR8.0 TO 9.0 - 10 MIN BREAKS
HOUR 9.0 TO 10.0 - ALL WORKING
COLLECTIVEAGRfflVEMT- FPI & FFAW/CAW-APRIL 1,2006 ■ DECEMBER31,2009
46
(c) Industrial Production/Cooking
WEEK 1	SHIFT	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	8	B	B	A	A	A
	EVENING	A	C	C	C	C	B
WEEK 2	SHIFT	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	C	C	C	C	B	B
	EVENING	B	B	A	A	A	A
WEEK 3	SHIFT	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	B	A	A	A	A	C
	EVENING	C	C	C	8	B	B
WEEK 4	SHIFT	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	C	C	B	B	B	8
	EVENING	A	A	A	A	C	C
WEEK 5	SHIFT	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	A	A	A	C	C	C
	EVENING	C	B	8	6	B	A
WEEK 6	SHIFT	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	6	B	8	B	A	A
	EVENING	A	A	C	C	C	C
WEEK 7	SHIFT	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	A	C	C	C	C	B
	EVENING	8	B	B	A	A	A
WEEK 8	SHIFT	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	8	B	A	A	A	A
	EVENING	C	C	C	C	B	8
WEEK 9	SHIFT	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	C	C	C	6	B	B
	EVENING	B	A	A	A	A	C
WEEK I O	SHIFT	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	A	A	A	A	C	C
	EVENING	C	C	8	8	8	B
CollectiveAgreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW- April 1,2006 - December31, 2009
47
WEEK 11	SHIFT	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	C	B	B	6	B	A
	EVENING	A	A	A	C	C	C
WEEK 12	SHIFT	MON	TUES	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
	DAY	A	A	C	C	C	C
	EVENING	B	B	6	B	A	A
DEFINITION OF SHIFTS
DAY SHIFT: 7:00 AM TO 5:00 PM
EVENING SHIFT: 5:00 PM TO 3:00 AM
REST/ LUNCH BREAK SCHEDULE
COMMENCE TO END OF 1ST HOUR - ALL WORKING
2ND HOUR - 10 MIN BREAKS
HOUR 2.0 TO 2.5 - ALL WORKING
HOUR 2.5 TO 3.5 - 10 MIN BREAKS
HOUR 3.5 TO 4.5 - ALL WORKING
HOUR4.5 TO 6.5 - 20 MIN LUNCH BREAK
HOUR6.5 TO 7.5 - 10 MIN BREAKS
HOUR 7.5 TO 8.0 - ALL WORKING
HOUR8.0 TO 9.0 - 10 MIN BREAKS
HOUR 9.0 TO 10.0 - ALL WORKING
(d)	Clean-Up
Monday to Thursday and Saturday
Friday
Sunday
Industrial Cooking - High Risk
Tuesday to Saturday Sunday
3:00 AVI TO 7:00 AVI 1:00 AM TO 7:00 AVI 3:00 AM TO 12:00 NOON
3:00 AM TO 7:00AM 3:00 AM TO 12:00 NOON
COLLECTIVEAGRfflVerr- FPI & FFAW/CAW- April 1,2006 ■ DBCBVBK31,2009
Industrial Maturing
Monday to Friday	3:00	AM TO 7:00 AM
Friday	5:00	PM TO 2:00 AM
Sunday	5:00	AM TO 9:00 AM
* IF A PRODUCTION SHIFT(S) SHOULD START LATE OR END PREMATURELY THEN CLEAN UP HOURS WILL VARY ACCORDINGLY.
With 1 and/or 2 shift operations, the working schedule will change to reflect processing times
Other clean up duties performed outside this work schedule, will be paid at regular rates to a maximum of 10 hours per day or 40 hours per week.
(e)	Discharge
Start times, crewing and number of shifts will be dictated by vessel landings.
Rest breaks and lunch periods will be scheduled to accommodate the efficient offloading of vessels.
(f)	Bagging
When necessary, as determined by the Company, a three (3) shift, a two (2) shift,
or a one (1) shift system will be employed and hours of work will vary depending on requirements.
collecth/eAgreement-FPI & FFAW/CAW-April 1,2006- decbviber31,2009
49
Office Staff
SCHEDULE"D"
1.	The items in this Schedule specify the Articles in the Collective Agreement that apply to Office Staff in Burin, Marystown, Portaux Choix and Port Union.
2.	The following Articles in the Collective Agreement apply to Office Staff.
Article 1 - Recognition
Article 2 - Union Security
Article 3 - Management Rights
Article 4 - Employee Rights
Article 5 - No Strike - No Lockout
Article 6 - Union Officers
Article 9 - Temporary Assignments
Article 11 - Overtime
Article 13 - Statutory Holidays
Article 14 - Vacation
Article 15 - Seniority
Article 16 - Safety
Article 17 - Leave of Absence
Article 18 - Grievance Procedure
Article 19 - Arbitration
Article 20 - Labour Management Committee
Article 22 - General
Article 26 - Technological Change
Article 27 - Harassment Based on Gender
Article 28 - Transfers and Relocations
Article 29 - Casual Employees
Article 30 - Amendment
Article 31 - Term of Agreement
3.	Hours of Work
The hours of work, meal periods and rest breaks for Office Staff shall be:
Mawstown:
General Office Staff:
Regular Hours: 8 am - 5 pm (1 hour meal period)
4Summer Hours: 8 am - 4:30 pm (1/2 hour meal period)
Breaks: One (1) fifteen (15) minute rest break each morning and afternoon
4 Summer hours shall be in effect from the first work day following the Victoria Day holiday to the last work day preceding the Labour Day holiday.
COUKTOEAGRfflVBir- FPI & FFAW/CAW - APRIL 1,2006 ■ DECEMBER31,2009
50
Production Office Staff:
Regular Hours: 10 am - 7 pm (1 hour meal period)
Breaks: One (1) fifteen (15) minute rest break each half of each work shift
Burin:
Regular Hours: 8:30 am - 4:30 p.m. (45 minute meal period)
Summer Hours: 8 am - 4:00 p.m. (45 minute meal period)
Breaks: One (1) fifteen (15) minute rest break each afternoon during regular hours; One (1) fifteen (15) minute rest break each morning during summer hours.
Port Union:
Regular Hours: 8:30 am - 4:30 p.m. (one-half hour meal period)
Summer Hours: 8 am - 4:00 p.m. (one-half hour meal period)
Breaks: One (1) fifteen (15) minute rest break each morning and afternoon
Port au Choix
Regular Hours: 8:30 am - 5 pm (1 hour meal period)
Summer Hours: 8 am - 4:00 pm (45 minute meal period)
Breaks: One (1) fifteen (15) minute rest break each morning and afternoon
4.	Group Insurance
Office staff covered by this Agreement will be included in the joint trusteed Regular Group Insurance plan, 100% of the cost to be paid by the Company.
5.	Sick Leave
Office staff covered by this Agreement shall have the benefit of leave of absence with pay for up to a maximum of six (6) days per calendar year prorated on the basis of months worked. The Company may require the employee to provide a satisfactory doctor's note to cover any period of sick leave.
CollectiveAgreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW-April 1,2006 -December 31,2009
51
6.	Classification and Wages
Office Staff shall be classified as follows:
Group 2:
Accounting Clerks Costing & InventoryClerks
Wage rates are contained in Schedule 'A”.
Payroll Clerks Switchboard/Receptionists lnventory& Shipping Clerks Stockroom Clerks Sr. Stockroom Clerks General Office Clerks Machine/Computer Operators
Collective AGFra/eir- FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 ■ dkbvbb*31,2009
52
SCHEDULE ”E”
Regular (MairO Group Insurance Benefit Plan
Description of Plan fas of the date of implementation of this Agreement)
The following is not part of the Collective Agreement. Benefits are subject to the master policy. Administration of claims, all enquiries, correspondence and claims should be sent to the Company.
Schedule of Benefits
Term Life/AD&D Weekly Indemnity Major Medical Expenses Direct Drug Expenses Semi-Private Hospital Vision Care
$25,000
$250.00
80% Subject to policy limitations Direct Drug Expenses 80% Paid All Costs Above M.C.P.
80% (Max. Payment of $120.00)
LIFE INSURANCE
Life Insurance is payable to your listed beneficiary upon your death from any cause. In the event there is no such appointment, the benefit will be payable to the estate of the member. Payment may be taken in a lump sum.
Within 31 days of leaving your employment, you may convert the life insurance to any individual whole life or convertible one-year term or term to age 65 plan.
If, while insured, you become totally disabled for at least 6 consecutive months before attaining age 65, the Insurerwill waive the payment of Life Insurance premiums. This "Waiver of Premium" benefit is not automatic. In order to qualify, you must notify your Plant Administrator within 12 months from the day your last worked. The Plant Administrator will then give you two forms for completion and return. One form is an application to be completed by you, and the other is a form for completion by your doctor. Both forms, together with a copy of your birth certificate, should then be returned to your Plant Administrator as soon as possible, as they must be received by the Insurance Company not later than 18 months from the day you last worked.
Benefits reduce by 50% on the first day of the month coincident or next following attainment of age 65. Benefits cease on the first day of the month coincident or next following attainment of age 70 or prior retirement.
Collective Agreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 ■ December31,2009
53
BENEFICIARY
The Member's Loss of Life Benefit is payable to the beneficiary(ies) appointed under his/her Group Life Insurance Program. I n the event there is no such appointment, the Loss of Life Benefit will be payable to the Estate of the Member. Payment will be made in a lump sum.
ACCIDENTAL PEAT AND DISMEMBERMENT
Coverage
Subject to the limitations shown: All accidents resulting in Death, Dismemberment, Loss of Speech, Loss of Hearing, Loss of Use of Limbs, or Paralysis are covered - anywhere in the world - anytime - 24 hours per day.
Amount of Insurance
The amount of insurance (Principal Sum) with respect to each eligible person shall be an amount equal to coverage under the Atlantic Fisheries Benefit Trust Group Life Insurance Program.
Schedule of Benefits
If, within one year after the date of an accident, an Insured Person suffers a loss below,
pay:
For:
Loss of Life
Loss of Both hands, both feet or sight of both eyes
Loss of one hand and one foot
Loss of one hand and sight of one eye
Loss of one foot and sight of one eye
Loss of speech and hearing
Loss of use of both hands or both feet
Loss of use of one hand and one foot
Loss of all toes on one foot
Quadriplegia (total paralysis of both upper and lower limbs)
Paraplegia (total paralysis of both lower limbs)
Hemiplegia (total paralysis of upper and lower limbs of one side of body)
Loss of one arm or one leg
Loss of use of one arm or one leg
Loss of one hand, one foot, or sight of one eye
Loss of use of one hand or one foot
Loss of speech
Loss of hearing in one ear
Loss of thumb and index finger of one hand or at least four fingers on one hand.
Percentage
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
25%
200%
200%
200%
75%
75%
67%
67%
50%
50%
33%
the Insurer will
Only one benefit, the largest to which you are entitled, is payable for all losses resulting from any one accident.
Limitations
No coverage will apply:
a)	While on active full-time service in the armed forces of any country;
b)	As the result of declared or undeclared war or act thereof;
collecth/eAgreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 ■ decbviber31,2009
54
c)	As the result of air travel, except as a passenger in any aircraft having a current and valid certificate of airworthiness;
d)	In the case of suicide or any attempt thereat while sane or self destruction or any attempt thereat while insane;
e)	As the result of flying in any aircraft owned, leased or operated by your employer.
If you become totally disabled, your Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will be continued without payment of premiums as long as your Member Life Insurance premiums are waived and the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Policy is still in force.
CLAIMS PROCEDURE
Written notice of claim must be given to THE CITADEL GENERAL ASSURANCE COMPANY, within 30 days after the occurrence of the accident or as soon thereafter as it is reasonably possible.
EXTENDED HEALTH CARE BENEFITS
Provided that they are not eligible as employees, your dependents are eligible for this coverage the same as yourself. Dependents include your wife or husband and unmarried, unemployed children from birth to 21 years. Coverage will extend to unmarried children in full-time attendance at school until age 25, and to children who, through permanent disability, remain dependent.
Provisions of Extended Health Care Benefits:
This section provides payment for hospital and major medical expenses incurred by you and your eligible dependents, which are not paid under your Provincial Hospital or Medicare Program.
Only reasonable and customary charges are covered. This means charges for services of the level usually furnished for cases of the nature and severity of the case being treated, and which are in accordance with representative fees and prices in the area.
Hospital Benefits:
The plan will pay 100% of the following charges:
1.	For expenses incurred in Canada, the plan will pay the difference between the cost of ward and semi-private hospital accommodation, as long as necessary.
Expenses also include reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense incurred outside the patient's province of residence, if they are required for emergency treatment of an injury or disease which occurred while the person was traveling outside his province of residence and are prescribed by a physician, equal to the charge made in the area where the expense was incurred, less the amount payable by a government plan:
1.	semi-private accommodation and auxiliary hospital services in a general hospital.
2.	services of .a physician.
3.	economy air fare for the patient's return to his province of residence. The maximum lifetime amount payable is $500,000 for the member and each insured dependent.
CollecuveAgreement-FPI & FFAW/CAW-April 1,2006- December31,2009
55
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES - OUT-OF-PROVINCE REFERRAL (100%)
Eligible expenses also mean reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense
incurred outside the patient's province of residence if they are not available in the patient's province of
residence, are prescribed by a physician and are performed following written referral by the attending
physician in the patient's province or residence:
1.	public ward accommodation and auxiliary hospital services in a general hospital in excess of any provincial government plan allowance, whether such allowance is payable or not, but only up to a maximum benefit equal to semi-private charge differential for each day of hospital confinement.
2.	services of a physician limited to, after deducting the amount payable by a government plan whether payable or not, the level of physicians' charges in the patient's province of residence.
MAJOR MEDICAL EXPENSES (80% Benefits
1.	Charges for rental (or, at the Insurer's option, purchase) of braces, crutches, wheel chair, hospital bed or similar equipment required for the therapeutic purposes as a result of bodily injury or disease.
2.	Charges for prosthetic devices required as a result of bodily injury or disease.
3.	Charges for professional ambulance service or other emergency transportation, to and from the nearest hospital equipped to provide the required treatment, and from one hospital to another. Emergency air ambulance service to the nearest hospital equipped to provide the required treatment when the physical condition of the patient prevents the use of another means of transportation, and, if the patient requires the services of a registered nurse during the flight, the services and return air fare for a registered nurse.
4.	Charges for necessary dental treatment required as a result of an accidental injury by external means, to natural teeth, provided the accident occurred while insured under this coverage. Replacement of natural teeth. As determined by the Insurer, only such charges directly related to such an accidental injury are considered a covered medical expense. The dental work must be completed within 3 years of the accident to be a covered medical expense.
5.	Charges for orthopedic shoes and special foot appliances which have been specially designed and molded for the insured individual and are required to correct a diagnosed physical impairment. Such charges are subject to a maximum benefit of $150.00 for a shoe without a brace and $200.00 for a shoe with a brace in any period of 12 consecutive months.
6.	Charges for hearing aids, repairs to hearing aids, and batteries, subject to a maximum of $500.00 during the 5 year period ending on the date an eligible expense is incurred. This limitation shall not apply in the event of an accidental injury to the ear.
7.	Charges for oxygen and blood serum.
8.	Charges for support hose when prescribed by the attending physician.
9.	Charges for a transcutaneous nerve stimulating device.
Collective Agreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 ■ December31,2009
56
10.	Hostel - I f you or one of your dependents, requires treatment at a hospital located more than 100 kilometres from your home, and if such person or the attendant requires hostel accommodations during the period of treatment, the reasonable and customary per diem charge, to a maximum of $25.00 per day, for such hostel accommodations will be considered an eligible expense. If the patient is over the age of 18 years, the hostel charge for the attendant will only be considered if the attendant was medically required.
11.	Charges for drugs, medicines, serums and vaccines prescribed by a physician, surgeon or dentist legally licensed to practice, but excluding charges for the administration of serums, vaccines and injectible drugs.
12.	Charges for a convalescent care facility. Charges for convalescent care service and supplies shall be subject to a maximum benefit of $20.00 per day for not more than 120 days of confinement for each period of disability. Confinement must be for the continued care of the same condition for which the insured was hospitalized and must begin priorto the insured's 65th birthday.
13.	Charges for the services of a licensed speech therapist, and clinical psychologist, up to a maximum benefit of $250.00 in excess of the provincial plan, per specialty for any calendar year for each individual.
14.	Charges for the services of a licensed chiropractor, naturopath, osteopath, chiropodist, podiatrist or Christian Science Practitioner listed in the Christian Science Journal, subject to a maximum benefit per specialty of $250.00 per calendar year for each individual. Included in this benefit is the expense of one x-ray per calendar year for each of a chiropractor, osteopath and podiatrist.
15.	Services of a massage therapist, limited to 20 treatments peryear.
16.	Charges for the services of a physiotherapist, and an occupational therapist when not covered by a provincial government plan.
17.	Charges for the services of a Registered Nurse (R.N.) provided such nurse is not ordinarily a residence in the employee's home and is not a relative of the employee or the employee's spouse, up to a maximum benefit of $25,000.00 during a calendar year;
18.	Charges for the services of a registered Nursing Assistant (R.N.A.), provided such assistant is not ordinarily a resident in the employee's home. I f convalescent care is required, up to a maximum benefit of $10.00 per day for not more than 120 days per disability.
Vision Care
i) lenses and frames for eye glasses, contact lenses and repairs to them, subject to 80% reimbursement to a maximum benefit of $120.00 per person in any period of 24 consecutive months;
i) eye examinations when not covered by any provincial government plan, limited to one such examination in any 24 consecutive months, or one such examination in any 12 consecutive months if the insured individual is under 21 years of age;
iii) eye glasses and contact lenses certified by an ophthalmologist as necessary due to a surgical procedure of the treatment of keratoconus, limited to $200 in any period of 24 consecutive months.
collective Agreement- fpi & FFAW/CAW -AprilI, 2006 ■ decbviber31, 2009
57
The above limitations shall not apply in the event of accidental injury to an eye.
WAIVER OF PREMIUM
The Insurer will waive the "Health" insurance premiums for each employee who is receiving Weekly Disability Income benefits under this policy, Unemployment Insurance Disability Income, or Workers' Compensation. Premiums will be waived beginning with the premium for the policy month immediately following the first full policy month for which benefits become payable, and continuing for each full policy month for which benefits become payable, up to a maximum period of 12 consecutive months. After this 12 month period, Premiums will continue to be waived for employees who have applied and been approved for waiver of the Group Life premiums, and while they are maintained on the seniority list.
EXCLUSION- EXTENDED HEALTH CARE BENEFITS
The aforementioned coverages do not include coverage for:
1.	Intentionally self-inflicted injuries while sane;
2.	Cosmetic surgery;
3.	. An examination by or the services of a physician or a surgeon if required solely for the use of a
third party;
CLAIMS PROCEDURE
Complete a "Claim Authorization" form and attach it to the invoice(s). There should be a completed "Claim Authorization" form for each member of the family for whom expenses are being claimed.
Have the claim verified by the Plant Administrator at your place of work. Send the claim to the Plant Administrator, Johnson Insurance Limited.
NOTICE OF CLAIM
To be eligible for payment, claims must be received by the Plan Administration not later than 12 months from the date the expenses were incurred.
TERMINATION OF INSURANCE
Termination of employment, retirement, attainment of age 70, or non-payment of premium, automatically terminates all benefits on the date the event occurs.
CollectiveAgreement- FPI& FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 ■ December31,2009
58
SCHEDULE"F"
1.	The items in this Schedule specify the Articles in the Collective Agreement that apply to the Sorting, Discharge and Cold Storage of all products at South Dildo.
2.	The following Articles in Collective Agreement apply to Sorting, Discharge and Cold Storage of all products:
ARTICLE 1 - Recognition
ARTICLE 2 - Union Security
ARTICLE 3 - Management Rights
ARTICLE 4 - Employee Rights
ARTICLE 5 - No Strike - No Lockout
ARTICLE 6 - Union Officers
ARTICLE 8 - Classification and Wages
ARTICLE 9 - Temporary Assignments
ARTICLE 13 - Statutory Holidays
ARTICLE 14 - Vacation
ARTICLE 15 - Seniority
ARTICLE 16 - Safety
ARTICLE 17 - Leave of Absence
ARTICLE 18 - Grievance Procedure
ARTICLE 19 - Arbitration Procedure
ARTICLE 20 - Labour Management Committees
ARTICLE 22 - General
ARTICLE 26 - Technological Change
ARTICLE 27 - Harassment Based on Gender
ARTICLE 28 - Transfers and Relocations
ARTICLE 29 - Casual Employees
ARTICLE 30 - Amendment
ARTICLE 31 - Term of Agreement
3.	Working Conditions
The Company agrees to provide and maintain the following working conditions:
a)	Adequate and suitable toilet facilities acceptable to the Inspection Branch, Federal Fisheries Department.
b)	Adequate clean drinking water.
c)	The Company will provide, at no cost to the employee, suitable protective clothing for work in cold storage rooms. Such clothing shall remain the property of the Company and must be left on Company premises at all times. The Company shall be responsible for cleaning on an as-needed basis, and replacement after twenty-four (24) months worked, upon return of worn out item.
collectiveAgreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW - aprl 1,2006 ■ decbvbb*31, 2009
59
d)	Adequate lunchroom facilities.
4.	Hours of Work
4.1	VESSEL DISCHARGING & PRODUCT SORTING -12 Hour shifts as landings demand.
Paid 15 minute breaks between the 2nd and 3rd hours of work, 4th and 5th hours of work, 6th and 7th hours of work, 8th and 9th hours of work. FISH PROCESSING-8 hour shifts as landings demand. Paid 15 minute break after 2 hours and unpaid 1/2 hour break after 4 hours.
4.2	All employees shall be allowed, without loss of pay, rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each half of each working day or shift. It is expressly understood and agreed that all such employees shall be expected to make all necessary use, during any rest periods, of the toilet facilities for employees in order that absent from duty during actual working periods for the purpose of using these facilities will occur in cases of real necessity. It i s further agreed that all employees shall be at their post and in readiness to commence work at the expiry of the rest periods allowed herein.
4.3	Employees called in for a shift pursuant to 4:01 above, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the appropriate rate once in a twelve (12) hour work period.
Employees called and not having to start work or work is delayed or suspended for any reason, other than their own fault, during the regular hours of work, shall be paid in full for each hour, as long as they are required to remain on the job.
4.4	For each trip landed, the shift starting the day shift will remain on day shift; the shift on nights will remain on night shift until discharging, sorting and cold storage operations are completed. The shifts will rotate on a trip-by-trip basis.
5.	Overtime
All hours worked after twelve (12) hours in any day or forty (40) hours in any week shall be paid at time and-one-half.
collective Agreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 ■ decbvbbt31, 2009
60
Fishery Products International
April 24, 2007
Mr. Earle McCurdy, President
Fish, Food and Allied Workers Union (FFAW/CAW)
P.O. Box 10, Cormack Building 2 Steers Cove St.John's, NLA1C5H5
Dear Mr. McCurdy
This is to confirm certain commitments and understandings on behalf of the Company relative to the renewal of the Collective Agreement, to be effective March 31, 2007.
The items to which the Company agrees herein refer specifically to maintenance employees of the Company employed in Marine and Plant Maintenance throughout the Company's operations covered by this Agreement.
1.	Where overtime is not scheduled in advance, and continues without a break from the employee's regular shift, and is in excess of two (2) hours, the Company will supply a meal to Maintenance employees. The meals will be available and will originate from two (2) sources. The maximum value of the meal will be $12.00.
2.	Maintenance employees who are	required to travel on Company business will be paid to a
maximum of twelve (12) hours at	their straight time rate for all travel within a twenty-four (24)
hour period. Hours actually worked during the period will be paid at the appropriate rates under this Agreement. Where the hours actually worked in a regular work day plus travel time exceed the normal scheduled hours for an employee, he shall be paid at the appropriate rate for such excess hours.
Employees required to travel on Saturday and Sunday will be paid at the appropriate rate, to a maximum of twelve (12) hours.
3.	For all Maintenance workers working on board Company trawlers it is agreed that they will be made familiar with the use and have available to them Scott Air Packs.
4.	The Company will ensure that lunchrooms will be maintained in a clean and orderly fashion.
5.	The Company had agreed to top	up apprentices' wages while attending school but have been
unable to do so as a result of HRSDC rules and regulations. The Company is prepared to maintain its position should the opportunity permit them to top-up wages. The specific Company commitment is as follows:
The Company agrees' subject to any appropriate agreement that might be required from Human Resources Skills Development Canada (HRSDC), that apprentices will be given full credit for hours they attend school on the approved courses, as part of their apprenticeship training program. The Company agrees to bring the apprentices' pay for actual school time up to the regular rate the apprentice would receive while working under the provisions of this CollectiveAgreement.
Collective Agreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 ■ December31 ,2009
6.	Subject to the following terms and conditions, the Company is agreed to give preference of employment to regular employees prior to jobs being posted or filled from outside the bargaining unit. This is intended to apply to new jobs related to technological change where new equipment is installed. The Company will follow the principle of upgrading its own Maintenance employees where the employees have the necessary background to be given the training. The training must be able to be completed within a reasonable timeframe to ensure the maintenance of orderly operations. Employees must have the ability, education, or experience at a basic level, which will permit their being trained to perform the functions required.
7.	The continuous operating period for air chippers and jackhammers will be a maximum of four (4) hours per individual employee.
8.	In the classification of shift power engineer, trawler attendant and watchman, employees will be permitted to rearrange their work schedules by mutual agreement to accommodate individual employees with respect to work during the Christmas/New Year's holiday period. The intention will be to permit employees to rotate shifts every second year to eliminate individual employees having to work during Christmas and New Year's holidays in successive years.
9.	The Company agrees to compensate journeypersons for the renewal of their certificates.
10.	The Company agrees to supply the following Safety items during the term of these Terms and Conditions of Employment:
e	Safety Hard Hats
e	Safety Hat Liners
e Welding Jackets
•	Welding Gloves (for helpers) e Smoke Extractors
e	Ear Protection
e	Safety Gloves
e	Acid Coveralls
•	Safety Harness
e Access to Toxic Gas Monitor e Cutting Goggles
e	Air Circulating Helmet (one (1) per Maintenance Operation (Plant, Marine))
11.	Shift power engineers will be paid for the ticket held.
12.	The Company will contact the Department of Labour and arrange to have an inspector visit each location to test welders who want to be certified as high pressure welders.
13.	The Company does not recognize any particular location where Marine Maintenance is employed as having any specific right to perform maintenance work on the FAS vessels. During the turnaround period, FAS vessels fishing shrimp will be maintained by Marine Engineers assigned to the vessels.
14.	The Company agrees that employees on international travel on Company business, will be governed by the Company's Travel Policy.
15.	Engineers will primarily be responsible for the operation, maintenance and repairs to the refrigeration, steam and ice systems. With this guideline, locals should be able to address local concerns.
CollectiveAgreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW- April 1,2006 ■ December31,2009
62
16.	Engineers who are on twelve (12) hour shifts, will be permitted to take their three (3) floaters as two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts off if they have actually earned the floaters.
Yours sincerely,
FISHERY PRODUCTS INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
Director, Labour Relations
cc. Graham Roome Murray Dicks Jack Rowe Hugh Slaney Barry Vincent
Collective Agreement- FPI & FFAW/CAW - April 1,2006 ■ December31,2009
63
f
Fishery Products International
70 O'Leary Avenue/P.O. Box 550 St. John's, Newfoundland & Labrador, Canada A1C 5L1
April 24, 2007
Mr. Earle McCurdy, President
Fish, Food and Allied Workers Union (FFAW/CAW)
P.O. Box 10, Cormack Building
2 Steers Cove
St.John’s, NLA1C5H5
Dear Mr. McCurdy
This is to confirm certain commitments and understandings on behalf of the Company relative to the renewal of the Collective Agreement, to be effective April 1, 2007.
1.	Article 1:01
If the Company, by acquisition or merger, acquires any plants in Newfoundland and Labrador, it agrees to meet with the Union as soon as is reasonably practicable after such plant acquisition, at which time the Company will voluntarily recognize the Union to represent the employees of such plant(s) provided that the Plants Collective Agreement then in effect between the Company and the Union will not apply to such employees. However, the parties agree that they will negotiate the terms and conditions of employment applicable to such employees.
2.	Clause 10:05 Two events must occur to activate Clause 10:07:
i.	An employee must actually work in excess of six (6) hours between the end of his last regular shift and the start of his next regular shift (e.g. between 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.); and
ii.	The employee must be working at a point in time eight (8) hours beyond the end of his last regular shift (e.g. regular shift ends at 4:00 p.m. Employee is working at 1:00 a.m. - nine (9) hours after end of his regular shift). When the two (2) conditions apply, the provisions of 10:05 are activated for scheduled overtime and a call-out as per 10:09.
3.	Clause 10:09 Should an employee be called in advance to report for work prior to the start of their next regular shift, and the work runs into the next regular shift, the employee will not get call-out pay as per 10:09 but the appropriate premium rate (e.g. work ends at 4:00 p.m. on Tuesday, the next shift is 8:00 a.m. Wednesday. The employee is called by a supervisor at 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday and asked to work starting at 6:00 a.m. on Wednesday. This would be treated as a premium payment, or overtime, as a regular application of the contract and not a call-out). A call-out would apply if an employee is called in to do a specific job immediately, at any time between regular shifts, in which case 10:09 would apply as stated. The principle of the call-out would be that the employee would be required to report immediately on receipt of the call.
CollectiveAgreement-FPI & FFAW/CAW - AprilI, 2006 ■ December31,2009
64
4.	Article 11 - Overtime
When an employee is requested to work overtime, which is intended to start before the commencement of his next regular shift, and the work continues to the start of the next regular shift the Company will schedule such work no later than 8:00 p.m, of the previous day. An employee requested to come to work after 8:00 p.m., or an employee who is requested to come to work after the end of his regular shift and before 8:00 p.m., and the work does not continue into the start of his next regular shift, will receive a minimum of four (4) hours at the appropriate rate.
The Company is prepared to ensure that overtime scheduled on weekends for Production Maintenance, and Office Staff will not be less than two (2) hours and will follow the principle of trying to ensure sufficient work to obtain four (4) hours at appropriate rates. This commitment is made in relation to overtime hours to be worked which are not part of any minimum reporting requirement as prescribed under the Collective Agreement or related to a call back provision.
- Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 13 of the Collective Agreement, it is agreed that for the duration of this Agreement, the current pilot arrangement with respect to holidays at the Port Union and South Dildo Discharge will continue with the exception of the 400-hour floater, which shall be eliminated.
6.	Article 14 - Seniority
(a)	Re: Application of 14:02. I n the application of this clause, the Company does not require that the first thirty (30) working days be consecutive. There are two (2) principles that apply in the application of the clause:
(i)	There must be a reasonably sufficient amount of work that would justify the hiring of an employee on a permanent basis; and
(ii)	The employee must be accepted as being satisfactory to be hired on a permanent basis.
Sporadic work throughout the year, even though it builds a fairly significant number of hours in total, does not necessarily justify the permanent hiring of an employee. However, where there is a consistent requirement for additional employees to work a significant number of weeks in two (2) to three (3) month periods, which reoccur as part of the cycles of work required at a plant, the Company is prepared to hire additional employees on a permanent basis and place them on the seniority list. At all times the number of employees on the seniority list should be assessed against the number of permanent jobs that are actually available in each classification and in total for each plant location.
(b)	Re: Application of 14:04(2) and (3). Where it can be done practically and with minimum disruption in the short-term reorganization of the workforce, the Company is prepared to apply plant-wide seniority in preference to classification seniority for short-term interruptions and lay-offs of more than one (1) day and less than three (3) days in duration. Particular attention will be paid in seasonal plants to ensure that senior employees have the opportunity to remain at work when there is a reduction due to work shortages. Reviews will be undertaken at each location to see
(a)
(b)
5. Article 13
CollectiveAgreement- FPI& FFAW/CAW-AprilI,2006- December 31,2009
65
what effective practices can be put in place in such situations where there is a reduction in work beyond one (1)day and less than three (3) days.
7.	Article 17 - I n addition to Article 17, "Leave of Absence" of the Collective Agreement, the Company agrees to the following policy for employees requesting leaves to work outside the Company:
•	If a seniority employee requests a leave of absence to work outside the Company, such leave may be granted provided the leave will be for the full production year, or balance thereof remaining, and can be accommodated at the plant. During such leave the individual shall not earn seniority or service.
•	If t he employee on such leave is recalled in the next production season and is still working elsewhere he/she must make a decision to return to work or immediately be removed from the seniority list.
•	Each location will meet, separately, with the Company in an effort to continue to clean up the seniority list in each plant.
8.	Article 19 - Committees
The Company will make the following payments for lost time and expenses related to joint Committees:
•	Up to 8 hours for time lost from work on a regular working day, for the day on which Committee meetings are held, plus one extra day at 8 hours for related travel time where necessary, per meeting.
•	The Company will pay a meal per diem of $38.00 per day, accommodation expenses and cost of transportation as applied by corporate policy. Any future changes with respect to the per diem and travel allowance, during the term of this Agreement, will apply to the Union members on the Corporate Committees. The Union members will be required to submit an expense claim with receipts for the expenses incurred related to the meetings of the Corporate Committees.
Yours sincerely,
FISHERY PRODUCTS INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
S.L. Popovitch Director, Labour Relations
COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT-FPI&FFAW/CAW-APRIL1,2006- DECEMBER31,2009
66
b) on lay-off! leave of absence, Workers Compensation and pregnancy leave.
1.3
In addition to the Statutory holidays listed in Item 1.0 above, employees shall qualify for floating holidays, as follows:
3rd
4th
5th
6th
Such floating holiday may be taken at a time convenient to the employee, subject to the approval of the Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The employee shall have the right to cancel the floating holiday upon giving the Company reasonable notice. I f not taken by December31, in any given year, the floating holiday will be paid for but not carried forward into the following year.
It is agreed that resolution of this issue is on an expressly without prejudice, without precedent basis to the positions of the parties under the Collective Agreement, or otherwise, and that the arrangement will be in effect only for the duration of the current Plants agreement, i.e. December 31, 2009.
To signify your agreement with the above, please sign and return one copy of this letter to the undersigned.
Yours sincerely,
FISHERY PRODUCTS INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
S.L. Popovitch Director, Labour Relations
FFAW Represer
Fishery Products International Limited
70 O’Leary Avetme/P.O, Box 550
$t, John’s, Newfoundland & Labrador, Canada A1C 5L1
Phone: 1-709-570-0421: Fax: 1-709-570-0479
WITHOUT PREJUDICE
May 31, 2007
Mr. Ben Baker, Staff Representative Fish, Food and Allied Workers Union (FFAW/CAW) P.Q. Box 10, Cormack Building 2 Steers Cove
5H5
Follow ng recent discussions between the Union and the Company and pursuant to Recorr mendation No. 2 of the majority Conciliation Board Report, the following confirms certain commitments and understandings on behalf of the Company with respect to Port Union and South Dildo Discharge operations.
Statutory/Floating Holidays
1.0
1.1
1.2
All employees who have worked their last scheduled shift immediately preceding the holiday (provided this shift is in the week immediately preceding the holiday) unless absent due to sickness, accident, bereavement or other just cause permitted by the Company; and are in good standing on the seniority list shall be entitled to pay for a regular shift at straight time in addition to any monies received for hours worked on each of the following days:
New Year's Day Good Friday Memorial Day Labour Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day
The day proclaimed for each of the foregoing holidays shall be the day observed, unless the parties can agree upon an alternate day mutually acceptable to both of them.
Employees shall not be entitled to a statutory holiday when: a) they have not attained seniority;
Fishery Products International Limited
70 O’Leary Avenue/P.O. Box 550
St. John’s, Newfoundland & Labrador, Canada A1C 5L1
Phone: 1-709-570-0421: Fax: 1-709-570-0479
WITHOUT PREJUDICE
June 12, 2007
Mr. Ben Baker Staff Representative FFAW/CAW 2 Steers Cove Road St John's, NL A1C 5H5 Canada .
Dear Mr. Balter:
Re: MOU - Discharge of Shrimp at Pork Union
Following recent meetings between the Union and the Company concerning the discharge of shrimp at Port Union, the following confirms certain commitments and understandings on behalf of the Company:
1*	Hours of Work
1.1	Shift - Start/Stop Times As dictated by vessel landings
1.2	Call-in
Employees called in to work shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the appropriate rate once in a 12-hour work	period.
2.	Job Classification & Wage Schedule As per Schedule 'A"
3.	Overtime
One and one-halftimes (1 xh x) the regular rate of pay for hours worked in excess often (10) in a day
One and one-half times (11/2 x) the regular rate of pay for hours worked In excess of forty (40) in a week
One and one-half times (1 xh x) the regular rate cf pay for all hours worked on Sunday.
A week is defined as a working week - i.e. commencing with the start of work on Sunday and ending at midnight cn Saturday.
There shall be no pyramiding cf overtime <x other premium pay.
4.	Rest Periods
One (1) 10-minute paid break during the first two (2) hours of work One (1) 20-minute paid break between the third and fifth hour of work One (1) 10-minute paid break between the fifth and seventh hour of work One (1) 10-mfnute paid break between the seventh and ninth hour of work
Breaks to be scheduled to accommodate the efficient offloading of vessels
5.	Clothing - Free Issue
One (1)suit of Rifcber Clothes every six (6) working months, upon return of previous Issue;
One (1) pair of Rubber Boots every twelve (12) working months, upon return of previous issue; and
Gloves, to be issued by Supervisor, as required, upon return of previous issue.
6.	Seniority
If only one shift is scheduled, this shift shall be comprised of the most senior employees with the ability to pofim the duties required.
It Is agreed that resolution <£this issue 6 on an expressly without prejudice, without precedent basis to the positions of the parties under the collective agreement, or otherwise, and will be in effect untilthe expiration of the current Collective Agreement.
To signify your agreement with the above, please initial page 1, sign page 2, and return one copy of this letter to the undersigned.
Yours sincerely,
Sf.L. Popovftch,
Director, Labour Relations
c.c. Graham Roome; Jack Rowe; Tony Merrigan; Ray Reid
Date:
/jL* &>\>7