COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
OMSTEAD FOODS LIMITED
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
— and —
UNITED FOODS & COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION LOCAL 459
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
TERM:
APRIL 1.2002
to
March 31,2005
INDEX
Article
Page#
1	Purpose........................................4
2	Definitions...................................4
3	Recognition...................................6
4	Union Security and Union Dues.................6
5	Management Rights............................10
6	Strikes and Lock Outs........................11
7	Grievance Procedure..........................12
8	Arbitration..................................15
9	Seniority....................................17
10	Layoff and Recall Provisions
Applicable to all Employees....................20
11	Special ProvisionsApplicable to
Members of the Cold Storage Department........23
12	Special ProvisionsApplicable to
Members of the Sanitation Department...........26
13	Shift Transfer................................28
14	Department Transfer...........................29
15	Job Posting...................................31
16	Hours of Work, Overtime and
Working Conditions.............................36
17	Special ProvisionsApplicable to the
Skilled Trades Department......................43
— 2 —
Article
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
Leaves of Absence.............
Bulletin Boards...............
Jury Duty.....................
Wages.........................
Bereavement Leave.............
Paid Holidays.................
Vacation with Pay.............
Health and Welfare............
Cost-of-Living-Allowance......
Special ProvisionApplicable to Seasonal Employees............
Health and Safety.............
Duration......................
Labour Management Committee
-	Other..................
-	Schedule “A............
-	Scheduled”.............
-	Letter of Intent.......
-	Letter of Understanding....
-	Letter of Intent.......
-	Letter of Intent.......
-	Letter of Intent.......
Page#
...52
...54
...55
...55
...56
...56
...58
...62
...66
67
69
70
70
71
72 77 81 82
83
84
85
3
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
1.01	The purposeof this Agreement is to establishand maintain collective bargaining relations between the Company and its employees employed within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement and to provide a mechanism for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, as per Article 7 and 8 of this Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 2
DEFINITIONS
2.01	The word “employee” shall mean a person employed within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement, who is not a “seasonal employee” as hereinafter defined.
2.02	The phrase “probationary employee” shall mean an employee who has not completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who has not acquired seniority.
2.03	The phrase “seniority employee” shall mean an employee who has completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who has been retained in the employ of the Company following completionof the probationary period and who has acquired seniority.
2.04	The phrase “seasonal employee” shall mean a person employed within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement whose employment is during
— 4 —
the period from and including July 15th in any year up to and including January 15th of the following year.
Seasonal employees shall not acquire seniority or seniority rights, shall not interfere with the seniority rightsof seniority employees and shall not displace probationary employees. The only provision of this Agreement which apply to seasonal employees are those provisions which are specifically applicable to seasonal employees and such provisions shall only apply to seasonal employees to the extent specifically provided in such provisions.
2.05	Whenever the singular or masculine are used in this Agreement, the same shall be construed as meaning the plural or the feminine where the context or the parties hereto so require.
2.06	The Company and the Union do not and will not, as a matter of policy, discriminate against any employee because of race, creed, colour, sex, national origin or membership in the Union.
2.07	Hourly lead workers selected by the Company shall lead and direct the workforce and be responsible for:
1.	Training employees when necessary
2.	Ensuring that directions of the supervisor are followed
3.	Coordinating work as required
4.	Checking work for quality and quantity
5.	Reporting necessary information
6.	Performing necessary manual duties
Lead workers shall not normally replace an employee in a classified job unless a replacement is not available. It
— 5 —
is agreed and understood lead workers will not issue discipline to other employees.
ARTICLE 3
RECOGNITION
3.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent of all employees of the Company in the Townships of Chatham-Kent, Leamington, and the town of Port Stanley, Ontario, save and except Foremen and persons above the rank of Foreman, Security Guards, persons employed in the growing and harvesting of agricultural products, Office and Sales Staff, Quality Assurance Personnel, PollutionControl Personnel, Retail Sales Personnel, Fishermen, Net Menders, persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week and students employedduring the school vacation periods.
ARTICLE 4
UNION SECURITY AND UNION DUES
4.01	All seniority employees who are members of the Union shall remain members of the Union. A new employee shall become a member of the Union upon completion of the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement. A seasonal employee shall become a member of the Union after he has worked a total of thirty (30) actual days, consecutive or intermittent, within any period of three (3) consecutive months.
— 6 —
4.02	The union expressly agrees that no seniority employee and no seasonal employee will be denied membership in the Union except for the non-payment of Union dues.
4.03	(a) The Company will deduct union dues, as set from time to time by the Union, from the pay of each seniority employee who is a member of the Union and from the pay of each seasonal employee who isa member of the Union, as hereinbefore provided, when so authorized by such employee, in writing, on a form acceptable to the Company. Such deductions shall be made monthly on the employees' fourth pay period each calendar month and the amount so deducted shall be transmitted to the Union before the 10th day of the following calendar month.
(b)	Per the International Constitution, all employees who are in the Union and who have worked any hours within the calendar month, will pay Union dues.
4.04	(a) There shall be elected or selected one (1) Steward from each shift (day/afternoon), in each Department,foratotal of two (2) from each Department. A Steward must have at least one (1) year of seniority with the Company.
(b)	The Union’s Negotiating/Grievance Committee shall be comprised of four (4) members from the bargaining unit at large, plus the Chief Steward and the Assistant Chief Steward.
4.05	The Company will not recognize any employee as a Steward until it has received written notice from the Union to this effect. The Union will inform the Company in writing, of any changes in the names of the Stewards.
7
4.06	(a) It is acknowledged that Stewards have their regular duties to perform as employees and that such duties must be performed in the same manner and to the same extent as other employees. A Steward shall not leave his regular duties without receiving permissionfrom his supervisor. The supervisor will not unreasonably refuse to grant a Steward permission to leave his regular duties for a reasonable length of time, without loss of pay, in order to perform any of the duties required to be performed by a Steward pursuant to the provisions contained in Article 7 of this Agreement.
(b) The Chief Steward or his designate shall have up to forty (40) hours per week to perform union business if necessary. It is understood that the Company may require the Chief Steward or his designate to perform duties in his classificationor other duties in an emergency.
The Chief Stewardor his designateshall have the privilege of working on the day shift. The rate of pay shall be determined by his classification held previous to the effective date of that Chief Steward position.
4.07	Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, in the event of a layoff, Stewards (to include the Assistant Chief Steward) will be the last to be laid off within their Department and on the shift where they exercise their seniority, provided they have the ability, willingness and qualifications^ satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
The Chief Steward will be the last to be laid off provided he has the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
8
4.08	The Company will provide an office to the Union for exclusive use of the Union. The BusinessAgent, Vice-Presidentand/or Presidentofthe Union will not be denied access to the Company's premises for the purpose of conducting Union business regarding employees of the Company, providedprior notification is given to the Human Resources Manager, or his designate, and his approval is obtained.
4.09	(a) It is the intent of this contract that a person acting in a supervisory capacity shall not be permitted to perform any work that is performed by employees covered by this contract, except as follows:
i)	in the instruction or training of employees.
ii)	in the performance of necessary work when scheduled work is interrupted as a result of any emergency situation, including breakdowns or for relief work, none of which deprives any employee of employment.
Hi) in supervisorytraining which does not deprive any employee of employment.
iv)	in experimental work which does not deprive any employee of employment.
v)	in the installation of equipment or new processes to the extent required to train or instruct employees which work does not deprive any employee of employment.
(b) The Company will analyze all project work to determine which projects may have the potential to be performed by bargaining unit employees in lieu of subcontracting said work. This analysis will include the cost and scope of the project, the equipment required,
— 9 —
the availability of qualifiedemployees (including back ups), time constraints, and whether the project is to be bid on a time and material basis.
The Company will notify the Chief Steward cf any planned project work and meet with him in advance of tender to review scheduledwork and the status of work in progress.
4.10	During the terms of this agreement, neither party shall enter into any agreement or contract with each other which conflicts with or has the effect of changing any of the terms of this agreement.
The parties may, however, agree between themselves to clarify existingcontract provisions or to address and reach agreement concerning matters not covered by this agreement.
Any mutual agreement reached between the Company and the Union will be documented and signed by officials of both parties prior to its application.
4.11	The Company will supply to the Union, on an ongoing basis a list of employees who:
(a)	have attained fifty-five (55) or more working days
(b)	are terminated or have lost their seniority
ARTICLE 5
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
—10 —
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency:
(b)	hire, direct, assign, classify, re-classify, transfer, promote, demote and layoff any employee who is subject to the provisions of this Agreement;
(c)	suspend, discharge or otherwise discipline any employee who is subject to the provisions of this Agreement, subject to the right of the employeeconcerned to lodge a grievance as provided herein and subject to the provisions herein contained with respect thereto;
(d)	determine the kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, processes of manufacturing, engineering and designing of its products, processing and production methods, control of materialsand practicesto be incorporated in the products produced and the extension, limitations, curtailment or cessation of operations; and
(e)	make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by employees, which rules and regulationsshall not be inconsistentwith the express provisions of this agreement; and will be discussed with the Union prior to implementation.
5.02	Without restricting or limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company retains all rights not specifically relinquished or modified by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
6.01	There shall be no strike or lock-out so long as this
Agreement continues to operate.
— 11 —
6.02	The word “strike” and the word “lock-out” shall be
as defined in the Labour RelationsAct.
ARTICLE 7
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	A Grievance shall be defined as any difference or dispute between the Company and any seniority employee of the Company regarding the interpretation, application or administration dr this Agreement, including any questions as to whether a matter is arbitrable and an allegation that this Agreement has been violated. Seniority employees shall process their grievances in the manner and within the time limits prescribed in this Article and in Article 8 of this Agreement. Once accepted as a grievance, this grievance shall be the property of the Union.
7.02	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this article and the provisions of Article8 ofthisAgreement do notapply to probationary employees or to seasonal employees nor shall the provisions of this article or the provisions of Article 8 of this Agreement be availableto the Union on behalf of any probationary employee or on behalf of any seasonal employee.
7.03	Anytime limit referredto in this article and/or Article 8 of this Agreement within which any procedures is requiredto be taken or within which a decision is required to be delivered or within which a notice is required to be given are mandatory and may only be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
12
7.04	Step 1
A seniority employee having a grievance shall first take the matter up with his supervisor on that shift either directly or through his steward within five (5) days of the time when the cause of the grievance occurred. If the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved within five (5) calendar days the grievance shall then be submitted in writing to the Department Manager/Human Resources Manager within two (2) days of the supervisors response.
Step 2
The Department Manager/Human Resource Manager shall deal with the grievance and deliver his answer in writing to the Chief Steward not later than three (3) days after the receipt of the grievance. Ifthe decision of the Department Manager/Human Resource Manager is not satisfactory there will be a meeting with the employee concerned and the Chief Steward and/or appropriate Department Manager and the Human Resources Manager. The Company shall deliver its final decision in writing to the employee within five (5) calendar days after the meeting.
7.05	In the case of a grievance alleging the improper discharge of a seniority employee, the discharged employee may submit his grievance in writing to the Human ResourcesManager, or his designate, as provided in Step 2 of sub-article7.04 of this Agreement, within five (5) calendar days after the date of his discharge. Thereafter, the provision of Step 2 of sub-article 7.04 of this Agreement shall apply.
7.06	If the written decision of the Human Resources Manager, or his designate, as provided for in Step 2 of
— 13 —
sub-article 7.04 of this Agreement, is not satisfactory to the employee and provided the complaint and the grievance have been processed in the manner hereinbeforelaid down, within the time limits prescribed, the grievance may be taken to arbitration in accordance with Article 8 of this Agreement.
7.07	By way of illustration, but not by way of limitation, the following shall conclusively be deemedto bejust cause for discharge:
(a)	theft or destruction ofthe Company'sproperty;
(b)	carelessness endangering the safety of others;
(c)	neglect of duties;
(d)	unauthorizedabsenteeism;
(e)	insubordination;
(f)	fighting, or disorderly conduct;
(g)	consumption of intoxicants or non-prescription drugs while on the job;
(h)	being under the influence of intoxicantsor nonprescription drugs while on the job;
(i)	bringing intoxicantsor non-prescriptiondrugs onto the Company premises; and
(j)	being in possession of intoxicants or nonprescription drugs on Company premises.
7.08	No grievance may be submitted to arbitration as provided in Article 8 of this Agreement which is not filed or processed within the time limitsprescribedin this article.
— 14 —
7.09	At any step of this grievance procedure, the Executive Board cf the Local Union shall have the final authority in respect to any aggrieved employee covered by this Agreement, to decline to process a grievance, complaint, difficulty or dispute further, if, in the judgement of the Executive Board, such grievance or dispute lacks merit or lacks justification under the terms of this Agreement, or has been adjusted or justified under the terms ofthisAgreement to the satisfaction of the Executive Board. Once the aggrieved employee has been notified either by their Steward or the Union Representative that their grievance is being dropped becauseof lack of merit, the aggrieved employee hasfifteen(15) calendar daysto appeal that decision by sending a letter to the Union President requestingto appear before the Union Executive Board.
ARTICLE 8
ARBITRATION
8.01	(a) Either party may, subjectto Article 7 ofthis Agreement, notify the other party in writing of its desireto submit a grievance to arbitration. The notice shall be deliveredby the party desiring to submit the grievance to arbitration to the other party within ten (10) calendar days after the date on which the Human Resources Manager, or his designate, delivered the written decision as provided i n sub-article/.04. Such notice shall also contain the name of the party's appointee to the Board of Arbitration.
8.01	(b) Where it is mutually agreed between the parties a single arbitrator may be used.
— 15 —
8.02	Followingthe receipt of the notice as provided in sub-article 8.01, the party receivingthe notice shall, within ten (10) calendar days following receipt of such notice, inform the other party of the name of its appointee fothe Board of Arbitration.
8.03	The two appointees so appointed shall, within twenty (20) calendar days of the appointment of the second of them, appoint a third person who shall be the Chairperson cf the Board of Arbitration. If the party receivingthe notice as provided in sub-article8.01 fails to appoint an appointee within the time prescribed in subarticle 8.02, or, if the two (2)appointeesfailto agree upon a Chairperson within the time prescribed, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour for Ontario upon the request of either party.
8.04	The BoardofArbitration shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision, in writing, and the decision is final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affectedby it. The decision of a majority of the Board of Arbitration is the decision of the Board of Arbitration but, if there is no majority, the decision of the Chairperson shall govern.
8.05	The Board of Arbitrationshall not havejurisdiction to alter, add to, subtract from, modify, amend or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provision for any existing provision, or to make any decision which is inconsistent with any term or provision of this agreement, or tc deal with any matter which is not covered by this Agreement.
8.06	The Company and the Union shall each bear the expenses and fees of their respective appointee to the Boardof Arbitration and the Company and the Unionshall
— 16 —
each pay one half (1/2) of the expenses and fees of the Chairperson.
8.07	The provisions of this article do not apply to probationary employees or to seasonal employees nor shall the provision of this article be available to the Union on behalf of any probationary employee or on behalf of any Seasonal employee.
ARTICLE 9
SENIORITY
9.01	An employee shall be considered a probationary employee until he has worked a total of one hundred (100) actual days, consecutive or intermittent,within any period of one (1) calendaryear. For the purposes of clarity it is expressly understood and agreed that days worked as a seasonalemployee will not be includedin calculating the one hundred (100) actual days of work as a probationary employee. A probationary employee shall have no seniority. A probationary employee who is retained in the employ of the Company following completion of the probationary period, aforesaid, shall acquire seniority, shall then become a seniority employee and his name shall be added to the seniority list with a seniority date which is the first date worked in a full time area in that calendar year. Article 7 and 8 of this Agreement are not applicable to a probationary employee and these articles are not availableto the Unionon behalf of a probationary employee.
9.02	The Company will prepare and post seniority lists, every six (6) calendar months, which lists will include the
— 17 —
name of each seniority employee, that employee's classification, that employee's department, that employee’s shift, when applicable, and that employee’s seniority date. Acopy of the seniority lists will be sent to the Union office.
9.03	(a) Seniority shall be determinative only as expressly provided in this Agreement.
(b)	Seniority means length of continuous service with the Company. It entitles the employee to preference in cases of decrease or increase of the working force in accordance with Article 10.02.
9.04	An employee shall lose his seniority and his employment shall be terminated if the employee:
(a)	quits, resigns or retires;
(b)	fails to report for work or fails to notify the Company for two (2) consecutive working days without supplying a reason satisfactory to the Company for such failure;
(c)	is laid off and not recalled for a period of twenty-four (24) months;
(d)	has been laid off and fails to return to work within five (5) working days after recall by the Company; provided that notice of recall which has been sent to the employee by registeredmail at his address on the records of the Company shall conclusively be deemed to have been received by the employee on the fifth (5th) day after it was mailed;
(e)	is discharged and not reinstated pursuant to the provisionsof the grievanceand arbitration procedures contained herein:
18
(f)	overstays a leave of absence granted by the Company without notifying the Company and without supplying a reason satisfactoryto the Company for such failure;
(g)	engages in gainful employmentwhile on leave of absence from the Company; or
(h)	leaves work without obtaining a leave of absence, unless the employee supplies a reason satisfactory to the Company for not obtaining a leave of absence.
9.05	(a) Seniority will be applied on a “departmental basis” and each seniority employee will be classified as a member of one of the following Departments:
(1)	Fish Department
(2)	Cook Department
(3)	Vegetable Department
(4)	Packaging Department
(5)	Skilled Trades Department
(6)	Cold Storage Department
(7)	Sanitation Department
9.05	(b) In the event that lay-off occurs in any departmentemployees’ seniority rights will be applied on a plant wide basis in accordance with sub-article 10.02, in that the seniority employee displaces the lowest seniority employee within the general classification regardless of department or shift.
9.06	An employee who becomes a seniority employee, as provided in this Agreement, has the privilege of choosing their home department and shift by completing
19
the appropriate forms in the Human Resources Department.
9.07	(a) The appointment, selection or promotion of
any employee to a position not subject to the provisions of this Agreement is not covered by this Agreement. If a seniority employee is appointed, selected or promoted to a position which is not subject to the provisions of this Agreement and is l atertransferred back to a positionwithin the bargaining unitdescribedinArticle3ofthisAgreement, such employee shall return to the bargaining unit with all of the seniority which that employee had at the time of his appointment, selection or promotion and such employee shall be credited with additional seniority with respect to the time he was not employed within the said bargaining unit, provided he returns to the bargaining unit within one (1) year from the time of his appointment, selection or promotion.
(b) Readmissionafterone (1)yearof a nonunion member will be determinedby mutualagreementbetween the Union negotiatingcommittee and the Company. Such readmission will not be subject to the provision of Article 7 and 8 of this Agreement and are not applicable to such employee.
ARTICLE 10
LAYOFF AND RECALL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL EMPLOYEES
10.01	In the event of layoff, the following procedureshall apply:
(a) The Department, the classification and the shift (where applicable) within which the layoff is to occur will be identified.
20
(b)	All seasonal employees employed within that classification, on any shift and in any department, where they are presently employed will be laid off first.
(c)	If, all seasonal employeesas identifiedin subarticle 10.01 (b) are laidoff, then probationaryemployees employed within that classification, on any shift and in any department will be laid off.
(d)	If, all probationary employees as identified in sub-article 10.01 (c) are laidoff,then seniorityemployees within thatclassification,that department, and on that shift shall be laid off in inverse order of seniority, provided the employees retained have the ability, willingness and qualificationsto satisfactorilyperformthejobs to be done.
(e)	In the case of layoff, the employees of the Pack, Cook, and regular Vegetable Departments will exercise their seniority rights in these areas first. Those displaced employees will exercise their seniority rights firstly in the Fish area and lastly in the Vegetable Seasonal area.
If the resulting moves require the use of seniority employees in the Vegetable Seasonal Area, these vacancies will be filled by the senior employees from the Regular Vegetable area who are not required in their regular area.
Any openings in non seasonal areas will first be filled with seniority people.
10.02	(a) A seniority employee who has been laid off, in accordance with sub-article 10.01 (d) shall havethe right to displace the most junior seniority employee in the General classifications a plant wide basis (as described in sub-article 9.05) normally within one (1) working day
— 21 —
unless prevented from doing so because of operating circumstances. The foregoing is contingent upon such employee having the ability, willingness and qualifications to perform the work of the employee whom he seeks to displace.
(b) The method of crewing, in order to fulfill the obligations of Article 10, are prescribed in Schedule's” which is attached to and which forms part of this Agreement.
10.03	When operational circumstances make it necessary to move employees from their scheduled departments, the company may assign those employees to other departments for the remainder of that day, provided they have the ability and qualifications to perform the work.
10.04	In the event that there is insufficient skilled work available, the Company may retain at work persons who are classified to perform such skilled work for one (1) working day, and, during such period of retention, such persons will be permitted to perform work normally done by other employees notwithstandingthat other employees who have higher seniority than these persons retained are laid off.
Smelt Machine Operators and Utility Person (Plant One) may be retainedinthe Fish Departmentfor the remainder cf the pay period provided the fishing fleets have a reasonable expectation that smelt could be caught. Such employees will not adversely affect employees who are presently working in that department.
10.05	Recall shall be in the inverse order of layoff, provided the employees recalled have the ability,
— 22 —
willingness and qualificationsto satisfactorilyperform the jobs to be done.
10.06	Probationary employees shall have no recall rights.
ARTICLE 11
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLETO MEMBERSOFTHE COLD STORAGE DEPARTMENT
11.01	(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions in this article apply to employees employed in the Cold Storage Department. Where there is a conflict between any other provisionsof this Agreement and the provisions of this article, the provisions of this article shall govern.
(b)	Cold Storage employeesassigned to the Plant One (1) area will take direction from the Plant One Supervisors and those Cold Storage employees will be required to perform all Cold Storage and Dry Warehouse duties therein.
(c)	Warehouse person classificationare included in the Cold Storage Department and would displace employees in the general classification, on a plant wide basis upon lay off.
11.02	A seniority employee in the Cold Storage Departmentwill retainthe right to transfer into the General classification in the Fish, Cook, Vegetable or Packaging Departments, with full seniority, provided that such application for transfer is made between September 1st and September 30th of each year and filed with the Human
— 23 —
Resources Department. An employee who transfers, in accordancewith foregoing, will be granted his full seniority rights in the Department to which he transferred on commencement of the following calendar year. The provisions of Article 14 of the Collective Agreement do not apply to such transfer.
11.02	(b) The Cold Storage Driver classification shall be considered the general classification within the Cold Storage Department.
11.03	An employee who is transferred by the Company to the Cold Storage Department will be assigned duties in their classification, on a rotating basis, or on straight afternoons as required by the job. Should a straight daytime assignment become available, such assignment will be offered first to the other Cold Storage personnel, in order of departmental seniority, provided that such employee has the ability, willingness and qualificationsto satisfactorily perform the job to be done. Those Cold Storage employees who voluntarily choose to work straight nights or to go on shift rotation will be excluded from the above provisions.
11.03	(b) When there is a vacated shift assignment in an area within the Cold Storage Department, it will be offered to the most senior available employee from the Departmentwho has the qualifications to perform the job.
11.04	(a) Prior to hiring new employees into the Cold Storage Department, the Company will give consideration to employees in other departments. The Company will select such candidates for consideration who warrants training for the job available to him. If any employee is transferred by the Company to the Cold Storage
— 24 —
Department his first day of work in the Cold Storage Department shall be his department seniority date, for a period of two (2) years. Such employee shall receive credit for all of his previous seniority with the Company for vacation, plantwide lay off and recall purposes. Upon completion of said two (2) year period, his plantwide seniority date shall become his Cold Storage seniority date.
(b) A seniority employee in the Cold Storage Department who wishes to transfer from one “area” of the Departmentto another “area” of the department must makeapplicationfor such transfer, in writing, to the Human Resources Department between September 1st and September 30th of each year. The approval of any such request is subject to the requirement that the Company have a junior employee within the “area” applied to who has the same classification. Such junior employee will be re-assigned duties in the vacated area upon commencement of the following calendar year. The employee who requested the transfer in accordance with this sub-article will be assigned duties in the new area upon commencement of the following calendar year. For purposesof this sub-artide“area” shall meaneither “Plant 1", “North Endorthe “DistributionCentre”.
11.05	(a) Shouldovertime or a premium pay assignment occur in the Cold Storage Department on a Saturday, Sunday or on a Paid Holiday, it shall first be assigned to Cold Storage employees.
(b) Overtime will be offered by seniority starting with the most senior employee and continuing to the most junior employee whom has indicated their intent to work by way of a voluntary sign up sheet posted on Company
25
bulletinboards, first in the department and then plantwide. This is dependant upon the employee having the ability, willingness and qualificationsto satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
(c) If none ofthe employees desire such overtime then such overtime assignments will be worked by the most junior employees in the department who have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
11.06	The Company will provide Cold Storage employees with the following:
•	One (1) full protective suit each year
•	Gloves as needed
•	An annual reimbursement of up to eighty dollars ($60.00) for the purchase cf approved footwear, effective April 1, 2002; eighty-five dollars ($85.00) effective April 1, 2003 and ninety ($90.00) effective April 1, 2004 upon submission of a receipt.
ARTICLE 12
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLETO MEMBERSOFTHE SANITATION DEPARTMENT
12.01	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the following conditions shall apply to members of the Sanitation Department:
26
(a)	A member of the Sanitation Department will exercise his seniority rights in the General Worker classification within the Company when not required in his classification.
(b)	A member of the Sanitation Department who has been a member of the Sanitation Department for a period of not less than one (1) year and who no longer wishesto bea member of the Sanitation Departmentmust advise the Company of this fact, in writing, between the 1st day of September and the 30th day of September in any year. As of the 1 st day of January of the following year, he will no longer be classified as a member of the Sanitation Department and he will not be allocated work in the Sanitation Department. Only two (2) employees per year will be allowed to transfer in accordance with the foregoing. If more than two seniority employees apply, the two with the greatest plant wide seniority will be allowed to transfer.
12.02	Prior to hiring new employees into the Sanitation Department, the Company will give consideration to employees in other departments. The Company will select such candidate for consideration who warrants training for the job available to him.
12.03	The Company will provide Sanitation employees with an annual reimbursement of up to eighty dollars ($80.00) for the purchase of approved footwear effective April 1,2002; eighty-five dollars ($85.00) effectiveApril 1, 2003 and ninety ($90.00) effectiveApril 1, 2004 upon submission of a receipt.
27
ARTICLE 13
SHIFT TRANSFER
13.01	A seniority employee will have the privilege of transferring from one shift to another on an annual basis, within his department, subject to the conditionshereinafter contained.
13.02	Application for shift transfer, within a department, will be accepted between September 181 and September 14"1 of each year in writing. Application forms will be supplied by the Company. The employee will obtain and drop off the completed forms at the Human Resource Department.
The Company will view all applications and post a list of the employees transferring and where they are transferring to, for a period of two (2) weeks. Employees who are affected will have one (1) week to either declassify or transfer. Upon completion of the last process the Company will notify the affected employees no laterthan November 15th of each year in writing.
13.03	The privilege of transferring from one shift to another will only apply to production personnel whose seniority rightsapplytoone of the following Departments:
(1)	Fish Department
(2)	Cook Department
(3)	Vegetable Department
(4)	Packaging Department
28
13.04	A seniority employee will be granted his full seniority rights on the shift to which he istransferredwithin the department wherein his rights apply upon commencement of the following calendar year.
13.05	A seniority employee who transfers from one shift to another shift in accordance with this article, will be transferred on a one for one basis. The most junior employee in the same classification as the person who is transferring shifts will be reassigned to fill the vacancy created by the transfer.
13.06	If the seniority of an employee whose shift is transferred in accordance with this article is identical to an employee who is presently on the shift to which such employee transferred, seniority will bedeterminedby plant wide order number (i.e. the employee with the lower number is more senior on the shift).
13.07	Following a complete tabulation of these shift transfers, the Company and the Union will review the position of each transfer to ensure the most junior employee is displaced prior to a senior employee displaced out of his/her shift.
ARTICLE 14
DEPARTMENTTRANSFER
14,01 A seniority employee will have the privilege of transferringfrom one Departmentto another on an annual basis, subject to the conditions hereinafter contained.
29
14.02	Applications for departmenttransfer, within a department will be accepted between the 1!l of September and September^"1 of each year in writing. Application forms will be supplied by the Company. The employee will obtain and drop off the completed forms at the Human Resource Department.
The Company will view all applications and post a list of the people transferring and where they are transferring to, for a period of two (2) weeks. Employees who are affected will have one (1) week to either declassify or transfer. Upon completion of the last process the Company will notify affected employees no later than November IS'* of each year in writing.
14.03	The privilege of transferring from one Department to another will only apply to production personnel whose seniority rights apply to one of the following Departments:
(1)	Fish Department
(2)	Cook Department
(3)	Vegetable Department
(4)	Packaging Department
14.04	A seniority employee will be granted his full seniority rights in the Departmentto which he transferred upon commencement of the following calendar year. He will be offered work in the Department in his classification and consistent with his ability, willingness and qualificationsto satisfactorilyperformthej obs to be done.
A seniority employee who transfers from one department to another in accordance with this Article, will be transferred on a one-for-one basis. The most junior
— 30 —
employee in the same classification as the person who is transferring departments, will be reassigned to fill the vacancy created by the transfer.
14.05	Ifthe seniority of an employee who is transferred in accordance with this article is identical to an employee who is presently in the department to which such employee transferred, seniority will be determined by plant wide order number (i.e. the employee with the lower number is more senior in the department).
14.06	Following a complete tabulation of these department transfers, the Company and the Union will review the position of each transfer to ensure the most junior employee is displaced prior to a senior employee displaced out of his/her department.
ARTICLE 15
JOB POSTING
15.01 When a permanent vacancy occurs within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement, within a classification above the General Classification, as the result of the death, retirement, resignation of a seniority employee or the creation of a new job, the Company will, if it decides to fill the vacancy, post notice of the vacancy for a period of five (5) calendar days in order to allow seniority employees to apply. All postings and the names of the successfijl applicants will be posted on the job posting bulletin boards and copies will be given to the Chief Steward.
31
15.02	Prior to posting permanentvacancies, thejob will be offered to:
The most senior “back-up” employee for that job classification from the department where the vacancy occurs:
If, after the above step is followed, and the vacancy is not filled, the Company will offer the job to the most senior backup plant wide.
If the vacancy is not filled after following the above steps, the Company will post the vacancy as described in subarticle 15.01. The Company will select the candidate by considering:
(a)	The requirements of the posted position and the qualifications, skill, experience and ability of the applicant(s) to satisfactorily perform the requirementsof the posted position; and,
(b)	Seniority.
When factor (a) is relatively equal as between two (2) or more applicants, factor (b) will govern.
15.03	If no applications are received from seniority employees or if none of the applicants is awarded the posted vacancy, the Company may then fill the vacancy in such manner as it determines.
15.04	The Company will post “Backup" positions for classifiedjobs. Successful candidateswill be selected in the following manner:
(a)	The most senior applicant not currently holding a backup position, in the general classification, in the department where the vacancy occurs.
32
(b)	The most senior applicant not currently holding a backup position, in the general classification on the plant wide seniority list.
(c)	The most senior applicant in the department where the vacancy occurs.
(d)	The most senior applicant on the plant wide seniority list.
(e)	An employeewill be limitedto holding one
(1)	back up position.
Notwithstandingthe above steps, the successful candidate must possess the basic qualifications, skill and ability requiredto satisfactorilytrain to perform the duties of the job.
In the event there are two (2) or more applicants with relatively equal qualifications, skill and ability, the most senior applicant will be given preference.
15.05	An employee who is a member of a classification other than the General classification and who no longer wishes to remain a member of that classification must advise the Company of this fact, in writing, between the 1st day of September and the 30th day of September in any year. As of the 1st day of January in the following year, such employee will no longer be so classified and will be classified as a member of the General Classification.
15.06	An employee who is awarded a posted position in accordance with the provisions of this article and who, at his option or at the option of the Company, is not retained in the posted position, following a trial period of twenty (20) working days, will be transferred back to the department and the shift and the classification where he
— 33 —
was working immediately prior to being awarded the posted position and he will be allocated work in that department and on that shift and the classification in accordance with his seniority and his ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
(a)	On successful completion of the trial period, the Company and the Union will sign-off that the employee has been adequately trained and is able to perform the duties of the position.
(b)	While training with the person who regularly has done the job, the trainee cannot be bumped from that position by other more senior employees.
(c)	The trainee can performthe work independent of the trainer. If there is a layoff, the trainer must perform duties that do not displace another employee.
(d)	The Company and the Union may agree to extend the trial training period.
(e)	The employee will be paidthe applicable grade upon signed qualification.
15.07	The successful applicant for a classified position will not be eligible to apply for another classified posted vacancy for a period of nine (9) monthsafter being awarded the posted vacancy. The successful applicant for a back-up position will not be eligible to apply for another back-up posted vacancy for a period of nine (9) months after being awarded the posted vacancy.
15.08	The Classification rate of pay for the posted position will be adjusted on the first day worked in that job following the trial period.
34
15.09	Notwithstandinganythingcontained in this Article or in this Agreement, the following provisions will apply:
(a)	All postings will be awarded as soon as possibleand when jobs are filled, successful bidderswill receive necessary training to competently perform the duties of the job under the direction of a qualified person until completion, without depriving other classified employees i n that classification of their seniority rights.
(b)	The requirements of a newly created job will be determined by a committee consisting of equal numbers of Union and Company representatives. The "Neutralizer"or other agreed upon job evaluation system will be utilizedto evaluatethe job grade of that new position and will be reviewed by the committee prior to establishing a pay rate for that job.
(c)	Employees in "backup" positions will be updated on these jobs periodically; these employees in updating assignments will be paidthe general rate of pay regardless of their current classification or their rate of pay. Classified employees displaced by these updating assignments in those jobs will be assigned general work without affecting their classified rate of pay.
(d)	The Company is willing to appoint one management person to work with the Chief Steward to write the Job Safety Analysis/Job Descriptions with assistance of employees in those departments. The Union will promote and support the successful completion of the above by assisting in the communication of this process.
15.10	Backup positions will only replace permanent classified employees in their absence, except as provided in section 4.09 (b).
35
ARTICLE 16
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND WORKING CONDITIONS
16.01	Hours of work shall be scheduled by the Company in accordance with its requirements.
16.02	All overtime and premium pay assignments with the exception of the seasonal work as described in subarticle 27.01 (unless that seasonal work was performed by a seniority employee), which occur in a Department on a Saturday, Sunday, or Paid Holiday, will be assigned to seniority employees who have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done, prior to assigning such work to other employees. For the purposes of this article, employees who are regularly employed in production areas doing production work will be given first priority for overtime and premium pay assignments in production areas to do production work which occurs on a Saturday, Sunday or Paid Holidays.
16.03	Any employee who does not desire overtime and premium pay assignments shall not be required to accept such assignments provided the employee has, prior to when the overtime and premium pay assignments occur, filed a request, in writing, with his supervisor to be excused from the overtime and premium pay assignments. However, recognizingthat productionschedulesand other factors may make it impossibleto approve every request, it is recognized that the Company may have to limit the number of requestswhich can be approved. In any week, only ten percent (10%) cfthe employees on the seniority
— 36 —
list, within a classification, shall, on a progressive basis (i.e., first week - first ten percent (10%); second week -second ten percent (10%); etc.) be eligible to make such requests. If, in any week, all employees within the classification who are eligible for that week do not make such a request, additional employees on the seniority list, within the classification, up to a total of ten percent (10%) of the employees in the classification will, in accordance with seniority, then be eligible to make such a request.
16.04	All overtime and premium pay assignments scheduled by the Company must be worked by the employee assigned unless the employee has permission from the appropriate Company official to be absent from work.
16.05	All hours actually worked by an employee in excess of eight (8)hours per day, Monday to Friday, both inclusive, shall be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee’s regular straighttime of pay.
16.06	All hours actually worked by an employee on a Saturday or on a Sunday shall be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee’sregular straight time rate of pay.
16.07	In the event that an employee reports for work at his regular time on his regular shift, Monday to Friday, both inclusive, without having been previously advised not to report for work, he will be given three (3) hours of work at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay. If no work is available, he will be paid the equivalent of three (3) hours at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay. As a condition of payment, the employee shall perform any available work which he is capable of performingand which he is requested to perform.
— 37 —
This shall not apply in the event of an interruption of scheduled work, because of conditions out of the Company's control. The Company will, as soon as possible, determine if work cannot be made availableand will proceed immediately to notify all the employees affected.
16.08	The following provisions apply to overtime and premium pay assignments:
(a)	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, overtime and premium pay assignments will be assigned firstly to seniority employees who are currentlyworking in the Departmentand on the shift where such overtime or premium pay assignments occur, provided they have the ability, willingness and qualificationsto satisfactorily performthe jobs to be done, prior to assigning such work to other employees.
Eligibility for this overtime will be established by an employee actually working on a Friday to be entitled to Saturday and Sunday overtime and Monday paid holiday overtime. An employee actually working on a Thursday will be entitled to Friday paid holiday overtime as well as that above.
Seasonal employees and/or seniority employees who work in the “seasonal area” will be eligible for weekend overtime per the provisions outlined above.
Following the above procedure, if it is found there are insufficient employees available within a department wherein overtime work and premium pay assignments are required, the additional work will be assigned to seniority employees who sign the voluntary overtimesheet for that department.
38
The overtime sheet will be made available every Monday and taken down at the end of the shift on Wednesday night during the week when overtime will occur.
Volunteers for such overtime will be selectedby plantwide seniority providedthey have the ability to perform the jobs to be done.
(b)	In the event that overtime is scheduled in advance of a regular shift, such overtime will be assigned to those employees who are scheduled to work in that Department on the same following shift of work.
(c)	Notwithstanding anything contained in this article or this Agreement, should overtime or a premium pay assignment occur following a shift, it will be assigned to those employees who performed those duties on the shift immediately preceding the overtime or premium pay assignment occurring, prior to assigning such work to other employees and providedthat such other employees have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily performthejobs to be done. This overtime will not interfere with or displace those employees who are regularly scheduled to work on the shift on which the overtime or premium pay assignment occurred.
16.09	An employee who wants permissionto be absent from work, for a reason that is known to him prior to the commencement of his scheduled shift, must receive permission to be absent from his supervisor prior to the commencement of his scheduled shift. The permission of the supervisor will not be unreasonably refused.
Employees who leave and return during their shift must punch out when leaving and punch back in upon their return.
39
16.10	If an employee is unable to report to work, for any reason, he shall call the attendance line, or ilthe employee is unable to contact the attendance line, the Human Resources Department, as soon as possible, and, in any event, prior to the commencementof his scheduled shift. The employee shall advise the attendance line, or the Human Resources Department, as the case may be, why he is unable to report for work and when he expects to report for work.
16.11	(a) When an employee is absent due to work related injury/illness:
•	the employee must be seen by a medical practitioner immediately following an injury/ illness causing an absence from work.
•	following this visit, the “Omstead Medical Report Form” confirming his visitation must be received by the Loss Control Manager, or his designate, and
•	such “Omstead Medical Report Form” must includethetype of injury/illness, the expected duration and the medical restrictions, if any.
(b) When an employee is absent due to a nonwork related injury/illness for more than three (3) consecutive working days:
•	the “Omstead Medical Report Form” must be received by the Loss Control Manager, or designate, no later than one (1) week from the beginning of the absence; and,
•	such “Omstead Medical Report Form” must
40
include the type of injury/illness and the expected duration.
(c)	Prior to returningto work, following an absence due to injury/illness, the Company must receive, within a reasonable time period before the expected return, the Omstead Medical Report Form identifyingthe employee's date of return and confirming that such an employee can return to regular duties; or,
• if regular duties cannot be performed, the Omstead Medical Report Form must include specific information identifying such employee's medical restrictions in order for such employee to receive consideration for modifiedwork. Aform isavailableinthe Loss Control or Human Resourcesdepartment,for this purpose and the Company will, upon receipt of a completed Omstead Medical Report Form, reimbursethe employee the cost of obtaining the completed form. The Company will issue payment upon submission of a receipt.
(d)	The Company shall notify the employee, chief steward and/or union reps of such a return to work interview within a reasonable period of time prior to the interview.
Return-To-Work Interviews, and any follow up meetings establishedduring the return-to-workinterviewwill be held with all workers who cannot perform regular duties, in accordance with said “Return to Work Procedures”.
41
16.12	Any medical examination requested by the company shall be promptly complied with by all employees. The Company shall pay for all such examinations. The Company reserves the right to select its own medical examiner or physicianand the Union may, if in its opinion an injustice has been done to an employee, have such employee re-examinedat the Union's expense.
16.13	It shall be the duty of every employee to advise the Company of his address and telephone number and any changes thereto. If an employee fails to do so, the Company will not be liable for the employee's failure to receive notice of recall or any other notice issued to the employee by the Company. The Company will send such changes to the Union hall on an ongoing basis.
16.14	There will be a twenty cents ($.20) per hour premium on the afternoon or second shift for all hours of work performed on such shift and thirty ($.30) per hour premium on the evening or third shift for all hours of work performed on such shift.
16.15	There shall be no pyramidingof any premium pay, including but not limited to, overtime and paid holiday pay.
16.16	An employee who is called back to work after completing his normal shift will be paidforall hoursworked at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times his regular straight time rate of pay, subject to a minimum payment of three (3) hours of pay at his regular straight time rateof pay. In order to qualify for the minimum payment, the employee must perform such duties as are assigned to him.
16.17	An employee who is called in to work on a Saturday, on a Sunday or on a Paid Holiday will be paid for all hours worked at the rate of one and une-half
— 42 —
(1-1/2) times his regular straight time rate of pay, subject to a minimum payment of three (3) hours of pay at his regularstraighttime rate of pay. In order to qualify for the minimum payment, the employee must perform such duties as are assigned to him.
16.18	The Company will make reasonable efforts to train and keep their employees up to date on new equipment before hiring new employees. The Company will cooperate with employees with respect to new ideas and techniques.
16.19	Where rotation systems are being used, all workers will follow said rotationunless they are prevented from doing so by their medical restrictions. The Company and the Unionwill meet to further reviewjob rotation issues in an effort to improve upon the current practices.
16.20	An employee who replacesanother employee on a temporary basiswill returnto their previous position upon the return of that employee.
ARTICLE 17
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE SKILLED TRADES DEPARTMENT
17.01	(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions in this article apply to employees employed in the Skilled Trades Department. Where there is a conflict between any other provision of this Agreement the provisions of this article shall govern.
43
(b)	The Stockroom Leader position is included in the Skilled Trades Department. Such employee will displace employees on a plant wide basis upon lay off.
17.02	Skilled Trades employees, under the direction of the production supervisor in the area to which they are assigned, will perform the duties necessary to provide production with the support required.
17.03	The Company will pay SkilledTrades employees, including new hires, according to the job grade structure, as outlined herein. Upgrading of Skilled Trades employees will be according to the position held within this job grade structure. (see chart next page)
44
7.03 SKILLED TRADES JOB RAPE STRUCTUR E/ PAY SCALE
GRADE/ iFFECTIVE DATE	REFRIGERATION	ELECTRICAL	MOBILE MECHANIC/ MACHINIST	MAINTENANCE MECHANICS
A	3rd Class and B Refrigeration	Licenced Joumeyperson	Licenced Joumeyperson	Licenced Joumeyperson
		with one year at Omstead	with one year at Omstead	with one year at Omstead
		(Indl/Const)	fA‘ Mechanic/Machinist)	(Millwright)
April 1, 2002	$21.45	$21.45	$20.95	$20.21
April 1,2003	$22£5	$22.55	$22.05	$21.31
April 1,2004	$23.60	$23.60	$23,10	$22.36
B	4th Class and B Refrigeration	LicencedJoumeyperson with	LicencedJoumeyperson with	LicencedJoumeyperson with
	OR 3rd Class Alone	0 years at Omstead OR	0 years at Omstead OR	0 years at Omstead OR
		completed2 yean Apprentice	completed2 years Apprentice	completed 2 years
		with 1 year Omstead Electrical	with 1 year Omsteadas	Apprentice with 1 year
			'A Mechanicor Machinist	Omstead Maintenance
April 1,2002	$19 70	$19 70	$19.20	$18.96
April 1,2003	$20 55	$20 55	$20 05	$19.81
April 1,2004	$21 35	$21 35	$20 85	$20.61
C	B Refrigeration CR	I year Electrical Apprentice	1 year 'A' Mechanic or Machinist	1 year Millwright Apprentice
	4th ClassAlone	Completed at Omstead	Apprentice Completed at Omstead	completed at Omstead and
April 1,2002	$18 70	$18.70	$16.20	Stockroom Keeper $18.46
April 1,2003	$19 55	$19 55	$19.05	$19.31
April 1,2004	$20 35	$20 35	$19.85	$20.11
D	New Apprentice (Refrigeration)	NewApprentice(Electrical)	New Apprentice (’A’ Mechanic	New Millwright Apprentice
April 1, 2002	$16.30	$16.30	<r Machinal) $16 30	$16.30
April 1, 2003	$17.15	$17.15	$17.15	$17.15
April 1,2004	$17.95	$17.95	*17.95	$17.95
17.04	Al I Skilled Trades Leaders will receive seventy five cents ($.75) per hour in addition to their regular straight time rate of pay.
17.05	The supervisor of the Skilled Trades Department will schedule the shifts and the assignments to be carried out by each employee under their authority. Such schedule of shifts will be made one (1) month in advance. Any adjustmentsto the schedule for entitled vacation or emergency requirements must be directed through the Department Supervisor. Supervisors will prepare a listing for plant coverage as requiredby the Company during the Christmas and New Year's holiday break in advance of such period.
17.06	Prior to hiring new employees into the Skilled Trades Department, the Company will give consideration to employees in other Departments. If any employeefrom another Department is transferred bytheCompanytotheSkilledTrades Department, his first day ofwork intheSkilledTrades Departmentshall be his departmental seniority for two (2) years, and his plant wide seniority will be used for vacation purposes only. After two (2) years the employees plant-widesenioritywill be his departmentalseniority. The Company will select such candidate for consideration who warrants training for the job available to him. The following conditions will apply to such person:
(a)	An employee will receive the rate of pay accordingto the Skilled Trades Job Grade Structure/Pay Scale outlined in sub-article 17.03.
46
(b)	An initial review upon completion of a two (2) week trial period will determine further continuance of the employee into the program.
(c)	An employee who warrants continuedtraining, as determined by the Company, will continue the Basic Apprenticeship Training Program. Upon completion of this period, an employee will receive the prevailing categorized rates appliedto members of the Skilled Trades Department.
(d)	It is agreed by both parties to this Agreement that an employee, who has been given consideration under this provision to transfer to the Skilled Trades Department, will retain the right to transfer back into the General Classification, with full seniority, provided that such application for transfer is made between September 1st and September 30th of each year and filed with the Human Resources Department.
(e)	Also, should the employee who transferred to the Skilled Trades Department not qualify within a six (6) month period of time, the Company may transfer the employee back to the classification that employee previously held, with full seniority in the same Department and on the same shift from where he came.
17.07	A new employee hired into the Skilled Trades Department who is unable to meet the standards of performance as determined by the Company during the first six (6) months of employment, will not be retained in the SkilledTrades Department. He will, provided however that he completed his probationary period, be given the opportunity for work in the General Classification in another Department on the shift as determined by the Company, provided that he is able, willing, and qualified
— 47 —
to do the work offered to him. The employee's first day cf work in the General Classificationwill be his seniority date in that group, provided however, that such employee shall receive credit for all previous seniority for vacation purposes only.
17.08	(a) EducationalCourses
The Company will sponsor company approved courses by reimbursingthe employee for tuition fees and requiredcourse books after the successful completion cf the course and by reimbursingmileage costs. In order to qualify for reimbursement from the Company, the employee must submit receiptsconfirming payment. The Company will apply the above in a consistent and fair manner with all employees within the Skilled Trades Department.
(b) The Company recognizes the need to keep Skilled Trades department employees current on new equipment and will endeavour to do so.
17.09	Overtime
(a) When practical, overtime within the Skilled Trades Departmenton a Saturday, Sunday or Paid Holiday will be offered to personnel within the Department including the back-up maintenance employees who last performed these duties in the area and on the regular shift where the overtime occurs, provided such employees belong to that area and have the qualifications to do the work. If this overtime is not desired by those who qualify under the above conditions, the overtime will be offered to the personnel within that area, who last performedthese duties in the area where the overtime occurs, provided such employees have the qualifications to do the work.
— 48 —
Regular shift shall mean 1st, 2nd or 3rd shift. For the purposes of this sub-article and sub-article 17.10 "area" shall mean either Cook, Vegetable, Packaging, Fish, Mobile Shop, Machinist, Refrigerationor Electrical.
(b) If this overtime is not desired by those who qualify under the above conditions, then the whole Skilled Trades Department becomes eligible, based on seniority, qualifications and willingness to perform the jobs to be done.
(c)	In order to qualify for such overtime, the seniority employee must sign the voluntary overtime sheet in the plant they are based, before Wednesday at noon, of the week when the overtime will occur. Eligibility for such overtime is based on the plant where the overtime occurs first, then the other plant, but not limited by shift unlessotherwise specified. Those employees who signed the voluntary overtime sheet and are required to work overtime, will be notified by the supervisor or designate prior to Thursday noon, before the weekend where the overtime occurs. The weekly overtime sheet will be posted by the Company immediately after the removal of the previous weeks' sheet and will be posted at both Plant One (1) and Plant Two (2) maintenance shops.
(d)	If, for any reason, the Company needs more workers to perform the jobs to be done on Saturday, Sunday or Paid Holidays they may schedule the most junior employee(s) and move up the seniority list until the required needs are met.
Inorder to qualify, the employee must have the necessary skills to perform the jobs to be done and the Company will follow the Employment Standards Act when scheduling employees for overtime. Overtime may be cancelled by
49
the Company at any time prior to the beginning of the overtime shift.
(e)	Overtime which occurs immediatelyfollowing a regular shift and of a durationof less than four (4) hours, will be allocated to the personnel within the Department who were on duty for the full shift immediately prior to the overtime occurrence, based on seniority, qualificationsand willingness to perform the jobs to be done. This overtime will be allocated, upon approval of the supervisor in charge, based on an estimation of the time required to complete the job.
Where overtime work is beyondthe four (4) hours specified above, the supervisor or his designate will contact the appropriate employee who is scheduled for the following shift and offer that employee the opportunity to come in and continue that overtime work.
17.10	Entitled Vacation
Vacations will be granted to membersof the Skilled Trades Department in accordance with the Vacations with Pay article in this Agreement. Provided, however, that during the period of June 15th to September 15th of each year, the Company will alloweach seniority employee from each area to be on vacation for a minimum of one (1) week in this period of time.
17.11	(a) Employees of the Skilled Trades Department shall be requiredto wear safety boots while at work. The Company will provide an annual reimbursementof up to eighty ($80.00) for the purchase of approved safety footweareffective May 1,2002; eightyfive dollars ($85.00) effective May 1,2003 and ninety dollars ($90.00) effective May 1, 2004 uponsubmissionof a receipt.
— 50 —
(b)	The Companywill provide each Skilled Trades Employee with five (5) coveralls or shop coats. These will be replaced upon submission of damaged garments.
(c)	The Company will provide proper clothing for Skilled Trades employees who are required to work in the Cold Storage area. This clothingwill be replaced upon submission of a damaged garment.
17.12	A Skilled Trades Department employee who is called back to work after completing his normal shift or who is called into work on a Saturday, on a Sunday or on a Paid Holiday will be paid, for all hours worked, at the rate of one and one-half (1 -1/2) his regular straight time rate of pay, subject to a minimum payment of three (3) hours of pay at the rate of one and one-half(1-1/2) times his regular straight time rate of pay. In order to qualify for the minimum payment, the employee must perform such duties as are assigned to him.
17.13	A seniority employee in the Skilled Trades Department who wishes to transfer from one area of the Department to another area of the Department must make application for such transfer, inwriting, to the Human Resources Department between September 1st and September 30th of each year. The approval of any such request is subject to the requirement that the Company have the requisite qualified personnel in each area and to the requirement that there be an employee in the area applied to who will voluntarily transfer to the other area. An employee who transfers in accordancewith this sub-article will be assigned duties inthe new area upon commencement of the following calendar year. Forthe purposesofthissub-article“area”shall mean
— 51 —
either “Fish, Cook, Vegetable, Packaging,Mobile Shop, Machine Shop, Refrigeration or Electrical".
17.14	A seniority employee in the Skilled Trades Department shall have the privilege to transfer into the General Classification in another Department, with full seniority, provided that such application for transfer is made between September 1st and September 30th of each year and filed with the Human Resources Department. An employee who transfers into the General Classificationof another Department, in accordancewith the foregoing, will be granted his full seniority rights in the Department to which he transferred on commencement of the following calendar year. The provisions of Article 14 of the Collective Agreement do not apply to such transfer. Only one employee per year will be allowed to transfer in accordance with the foregoing. If more than one seniority employee applies, the one with the greatest seniority will be allowed to transfer.
17.15	All Refrigeration personnel will work on all three shifts on an equal rotating basis except that the Leader will be assigned to work the day shift in the absence of the supervisor.
ARTICLE 18
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
18.01	A leave of absence for good and valid reasons may be granted by the Company to a seniority employee upon written application being made therefore. Prior to the Company considering a leave of absence request, all
-52-
vacation entitlements for that employee must be taken first, unless the request for leave is due to a denial cf requested vacation in accordance with section 24,07 (c). A leave of absence, if granted, shall be without pay and benefits. A request for a leave of absence will be considered by the Company only when such request is made in writing, specifying the reason therefore and the duration of the leave of absence requested. Such written request must be delivered to the Company not less that one (1) month in advance cf the commencement of the requested leave of absence; provided, however, that the provision for advance notice may be waived by the Company in cases of emergency.
18.02	(a) The Company shall, when presented with a request in writing from the Union at least four (4) weeks in advance of when the leave of absence is to commence, grant a leave of absence without pay to a Steward for a period not to exceedten (10) working days for the purpose of Union businesssuch as conventions, delegations and seminars. The requestshall state the purpose ofthe leave of absence and the lengththereof. The maximum number of working days which can be taken in a year under this sub-article shall not exceed twenty (20) working days in the aggregate in any period of twelve (12) calendar months, excluding Executive, Membership and Negotiating meetings.
(b) The Company shall, when presented with a request in writing from the employee at least four (4) weeks in advance of when the leave of absence is to commence, grant a leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceed two (2) years to a seniority employee who is elected to a full-time position with the Union. The
53
employee's seniority shall continue to accumulateduring the leave of absence.
Such employee will have the privilege to continue contributions to the company for benefitcoverages during this period.
18.03	An employee who has been granted a leave of absence shall not, during the period of the leave of absence, engage in gainful employment for any other person, firm or corporation. The failure to comply with this provision will result in the termination of that employee's employment with the Company.
18.04	The decision to grant or not to grant a leave of absence rests solely with the Company. The refusal to grant a leave of absence and/or any conditions i mposed by the Company with respect thereto shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement. In cases of emergency, a request for leave of absence will not be unreasonably refused.
18.05	When a leave of absence is requested, the Company will give its answer within five (5) working days. In an emergency situation, the Company will give its answer as quickly as possible.
ARTICLE 19
BULLETIN BOARDS
19.01	The Company will permit posting of notices of employee meetings or functions on bulletin boards conspicuously placed and provided for that purpose.
54
19.02	All notices must be signed by the appropriate Company official prior to being posted on the bulletin boards.
ARTICLE 20
JURY DUTY
20.01	The Company shall grant a leave of absence to a seniority employee who is required to serve as a juror or who is subpoenaed to appear in any court as a witness. The Company shall pay to such seniority employee the difference between the employee's regular straight time rate of pay and the payment the employee received for attending as a juror or a subpoenaed witness. In order to qualify for payment from the Company, the employee must submit proof of service and the amount of pay received. The Company will not limit the employee's right to be paid holiday or other overtime assignments. It will be the employee's responsibilityto advise his supervisor and the labour scheduler of his desire to work if required by Wednesday at noon. It is also his responsibilityto call for his schedule time if needed before the paid holiday or weekend overtime.
ARTICLE 21
WAG ES
21.01	The wage rates to be paid to seniority employees, save and except seniority employees who are employed in the Skilled Trades Department, as prescribed in
— 55 —
Schedule “A“ which is attached to and which forms part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 22
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
22.01	Intheeventofthedeathofa memberof a seniority employee’s immediate family, the Company will grant, upon application made by the employee, up to three (3) days leave of absence, with pay at the employee's regular straight time rate of pay, up to and including the day after the funeral, provided that such days are regular working days upon which the employee would have otherwise been scheduled to work. To be eligible for payment hereunder, the employee must, if requested by the Company, provide satisfactory evidence of death. The phrase “immediate family” shall conclusively mean spouse, son, daughter, mother, father, brother, sister, stepmother, step-father, step-son, step-daughter, mother-inlaw, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandchild, grandmother or grandfather of the seniority employee.
ARTICLE 23
PAID HOLIDAYS
23.01	Seniority employees shall be entitled to the following paid holidays with pay at their regular straight time hourly rate of pay:
56
New Year's Day
Heritage Day (2nd Monday in February)
Good Friday
Easter Monday
Victoria Day
Canada Day
Civic Holiday
Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day
The Day Before Christmas Day
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
23.02	If any seniority employee is required to work on any of the above Holidays, he shall be paid time and one-half (1-1/2) for the time worked in addition to the Holiday Pay.
23.03	Each paid holiday will be observed on the day on which the paid holiday occurs unless the Company designates another day as the day on which the paid holiday is to be observed, in which event, the paid holiday will be observed on the day designated by the Company and not on the day on which it occurs.
23.04	It is agreed that all seniority employees shall be paid a full regular day's pay at the employee's appropriate hourly rate for the above-mentionedHolidays. A regular day for this purpose shall be eight (8) hours.
57
23.05	Eligibility for the above named Holidays shall be subject to the following conditions:
(a)	The employee who is available for work on his scheduled shift preceding and following the Holiday, or when the employee has the consent of the Company to be absent, but, not in excess of fourteen (14) days.
(b)	An employee who is ill or injured up to twelve (12) working days prior and/or following the Holiday shall be paidfor the Holiday, providing he supplies the Company with a Doctor's certificate if required.
(c)	In order to qualify for pay for the Holidays as above, the employee's scheduled working day hereinbefore referred to must fall within ten (1O) working days before and within ten (10) working days after the said Holiday.
(d)	Forthe purpose of clausesa, b, andc, above, the days between Boxing Day and New Year's Day shall not be counted.
23.06	Notwithstandingthe provisions of this article, the Company will not pay paid holiday pay to any employee who has been paid Worker's Compensation for the paid holiday.
ARTICLE 24
VACATION WITH PAY
24.01	Seniority employees shall be entitled to vacation as provided in this article.
58
24.02	Vacations shall be granted in the vacation year following the vacation year in which it was earned. For the purposes of this article, the vacation year shall mean the twelve (12) month period commencing on the employee's date of hire or on the employee's anniversary date of hire, as the case may be, and ending on the day preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in the following year. The phrase “date of hire” shall conclusively be interpreted to mean the employee's seniority date.
24.03	All seniority employees with more than one (1) year but less than five (5) years seniority as of their anniversary date of hire in each year, shall receive two
(2)	weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be four percent (4%) of the employee's total earnings in the twelve
(12)	months preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.04	All seniority employees with more than five (5) years seniority as of their anniversary date of hire in each year, shall receive three (3) weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be six percent (6%) of the employee's total earnings in the twelve (12) months preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.05	All seniority employees with more than thirteen
(13)	years seniority as of their anniversary date of hire in each year, shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be eight percent (8%) of the employee's total earnings in the twelve (12) months preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.06	All seniority employees with more than twenty-two (22) years seniority as of their anniversary date of hire in each year, shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be ten percent (10%) of the
— 59 —
employee's total earnings in the twelve (12) months preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.07	(a) The Company will make every effort to grant vacations at times requestedby the employees. However, recognizing that production schedules and other factors may make it impossibleto approve vacation, as requested, it is recognizedthat it may be necessaryto limit the number of employees who may be on vacation at any one time or to not approve vacation as requested.
(b)	The Company, will, to the extent possible,give priority to employees' vacation request between January 16th and July 14th of each year, on a “first-come - first serve" basis allowing for a ten (10) day waiting period. During the ten (10) days following the application for a vacation, should a more senior employee apply for the same period of vacation, priority will be given to the more senior employee. Once the ten (10) day waiting period is over, if the vacation request is granted, no senior employee will be entitled to claim priority over a more junior employee with respect to the vacation time granted.
(c)	The Company may requireemployeesto take up to two (2) weeks of their vacation entitlement between July 15thand January 15th of each year. This is to apply to all departments. Of the vacation entitlement allotted to each employee, one (1) week must be held back to be scheduled by the company, as necessary.
Employees who apply and are granted vacation entitlement between July 15th and January 15th will be considered as io have met their obligation as to the 1st week of mandatoryvacation in that period.
60
Whereby the Company still requiresadditional employees to beon vacation, between July 15th and January 15th of each year, the Company will schedule the most junior employee(s) inthe classification required, by department, to be on vacation. The Company will upon the commencement of the next following mandatoryvacation period, continueto schedule mandatoryvacation from the point they had previously left off.
Should work become available in the full time area, mandatoryvacation will not be scheduled and should work become available in the full time area during a mandatory vacation period, the company will offer that work to the most senior employee who is currently on mandatory vacation.
Employees who are required to take mandatory vacation will only be required to take one (1) week, until such time all employees on the seniority list are scheduled to take one (1) week of mandatory vacation, prior to scheduling their second week of mandatory vacation.
Employees who are required to take mandatory vacation will be given notification on the Monday previous to the week of mandatory vacation.
Should the workforce, through attrition, reduce to a level satisfactory to accommodate all workers in the full time area, the mandatory vacation language will become null and void from that point forward.
The Company will notify the union as to the schedule of mandatory vacation on a weekly basis.
24.08	Vacation pay, upon written request by the employee, will be paid by the Company, in the pay period following such request. The appropriate forms are
61
available in the Human Resources office and must be submitted prior to 05:00 pm on Fridaysto be issued the followingweek. Vacation pay will be paid by the Company by the 15th of September in each year.
ARTICLE 25
HEALTH AND WELFARE
25.01	SEMI PRIVATE - 100% of the premiums will be paid by the Company for semi-private hospital coverage for all seniority employees while in active employment of the Company and their eligible dependents, where such an employee makes application therefor.
25.02	LIFE INSURANCE- The Company will pay 100% of the premiums payable for life insurancefor all seniority employees while in the active employment of the Company where such employee makes application therefor, as follows:
$16,000 effective April 1,1990 $18,000 effective April 1,2003 $19,000 effective April 1,2004
25.03	PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN - The Company will pay 100% of the premiums payable for a “prescription only” drug plan ($3.00 Co-pay) for seniority employees while inthe active employment of the Company, and their eligible dependents where such an employee makes application therefor.
“Prescription only” drugs do not include any item that can be purchased “over the counter”.
— 62 —
25.04	VISION CARE - The Company shall provide, to all seniority employees, a vision care plan to include coverage for employees and their eligible dependents as described in the Plan. EffectiveApril 1, 1999 this vision care plan will provide a maximum reimbursement of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per eligible participant every twenty-four (24) months. This amount will be increased to $200.00 April 1, 2003. The first twenty-four (24) month period began April 1,2003.
25.05	It shall be the responsibility <f the employees to ensure they comply with all eligibility requirements for coverage under this article. The details of the coverage are more specifically set out in the original contract for insurance coverage.
25.06	DENTAL PLAN - The Company will pay into the United Food and Commercial Workers Trusted Dental Plan-Ontario, effectiveApril 1,2002, twenty-six cents ($.26) per non-overtime hour worked by each seniority employee while in the active employment of the Company and their eligibledependents as defined in the Planwhere such an employee makes application therefor. An additionalone-cent($.01)will becontributedeffective April 1, 2003. An additional two cents ($.02) will be contributed effectiveApril 1, 2004. The Company’s contributions will also include contributions paid on vacation and paid holiday hours and will be forwarded to this Plan within fifteen (15) days of the month following the month for which the contributions are being made.
25.07	WEEKLY INDEMNITY - The Company will pay 100% of the premiums payable for a Weekly Indemnity Plan for eligible seniority employees while in the active employment of the Company. Subject to the terms and
— 63 —
provisions of the Plan, coverage will be for a period of twenty-six (26) weeks commencing on the one hundred and twentieth (120) day of absence from work and the amount of coverage shall be sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of eligible earnings subject to a maximum of three hundred and twenty dollars ($320.00) per week.
25.08	To become eligible for the Company's portion cf premiumsforthe Healthand Welfare coverages, seniority employeesmust have completedtheir probationary period and must have receivedeighty (80) hours of pay from the Company in any payroll month. In any month where there is a total shutdown of any 1 (one) or more of the major departments (Fish, Vegetable or Coated), the hours required to qualify for the company portion of the benefits cost will be reduced by 20 hours per week of shutdown plantwide. The hourscreditedwill be based on the payroll months and the days of the week in which the payroll week ends in a month will be creditedto that same month. Entitled vacations with pay and specified holiday, if any, shall be considered as time worked.
25.09	(a) Any seniority employee who is absent from work because of illness or injury or who has been laid off by the Company and who wishes to continueto participate in the Health and Welfare coverage as provided in this Article as a member of the Company's group with respect to such coverage may do so, subject to all requirements of the Plans and providedhe continuesto be an employee of the Company and continues to meet all the requirements of the plan and provided he pays to the Company the amount of the premium payment in advance of the premium due dates. This privilege does not apply to semi-private hospitalization coverage. This privilege
-64-
shall terminate on the expiry of two (2) years from the commencement of the illness, injury or lay off.
(b)	Any employee who is being paid weekly indemnity will qualify for the Company paid portion of the benefits plan cost.
25.10	PENSION PLAN -The Company will pay into the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan, on behalf of each seniority employee, the sum of sixty cents ($.60) effectiveApril 1,2001, for each non-overtime hour worked by each seniority employee, subject to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week. Effective April 1,2003, the Company will contribute sixtyeight cents ($.68) for each non-overtime hour worked by each seniority employee, subject to a maximum of forty (40) hours perweek, and seventy-six cents($.76) effectiveApril 1, 2004. Pension plan payments will be made for all hours worked at straight time contribution rates for all overtime hours worked up to an individual annual maximum contribution of 2000 hours. These Company contributions will be remitted by the Company by the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following the month for which the contributions are being made.
25.11	The Plan documents for all Sick and Welfare Benefits provided under this agreement are an integral part of the collective agreement and are hereby incorporated by reference into it. Exact duplicates of these plans will be forwarded to the Union.
65
ARTICLE 26
COST-OF-LIVING-ALLOWANCE
26.01	Seniority employees who have completed their probationary period will be provided a Cost of Living Allowance in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)	The Company agrees to provide Cost of Living Allowance determined in the manner and to the extent hereinafter set forth in accordance with changes in the official Consumer Price Index, published by Statistics Canada (1981=100), and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
(b)	Cost of LivingAdjustmentwill be made upward or downward as hereinafter provided based on changes in the C.P.I. but in no event will a decline in the C.P.I. below 136.4 provide a basis of reduction in the wage rates herein set forth.
(c)	Adjustments in the Cost of Living Allowance shall be made at the following times, based on the following C.P.I.:
Commencing the first pay Based on the CPI period following	published for:
April 1, 1989 October 1,1989 April 1, 1990 October 1,1990
February, 1989 August, 1989 February, 1990 August, 1990
26.02	The amount of Cost of Living Allowance which shall be effective commencing the first full pay period followingApril 1,1989, shall be one cent (Lcent) per hour adjustmentsfor each 0.5 increase in the C.P.I. published
66
for February, 1989, over the base of 136.4 and for any period thereafter shall be one cent (1 cent) per hour adjustmentfor each 0.5 increase in the C.P.I. published for the appropriate month as indicated above over the base of 136.4.
26.03	No adjustment, retroactiveor otherwise, shall be made due to any revisionwhich may later be made in any publishedC.P.I.
26.04	The provisions of this article are inoperative for the term of this Agreement. The amount offorty-four cents ($.44) per hour will be maintainedthroughoutthe terms of this Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 27
SPECIAL PROVISION APPLICABLE TO SEASONAL EMPLOYEES
27.01	Seasonal work shall include all Generaland Heavy classified jobs performed on raw or unfrozen fruit and vegetables prior to the Belt Freezers but shall exclude any coated and/or value added productions.
27.02	Seasonal employees shall be called back in order of years of service in that those with the most years of service shall be called back before those with lesser years of service provided that they have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the duties to be done.
67
27.03	(a) Seasonal employees shall be entitled to the following Paid Holidays, with pay at their regular straight time hourly rate of pay:
Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day
If a seasonal employee is required to work on any of the above Holidays, he shall be paid time and one half (1-1/2) for the time worked in additionto the Holiday Pay.
Eligibility for the above named holidays shall be subject to the following conditions:
(i)	must be employed by the Company for three
(3)	months during that season, and earns wages on at least twelve (12) days during the four (4) weeks prior to the Holiday.
(ii)	must actually work on the full scheduled shift preceding and following the holiday.
(b)	Seasonal employees shall receive, on a weekly basis four percent (4%) of their total earnings as vacation pay.
(c)	All hours actually worked by a seasonal employee in excess of forty (40)hours per week, shall be paidfor atone and one half (1-1/2) times the employee’s regularstraighttime rate of pay.
(d)	The wage rates to be paid to seasonal employees will be $10.00 per hour.
The Scale House clerk will be paid a minimum of thirty cents ($.30) per hour in addition to the seasonal hourly rate of pay.
68
There will be a twenty cents ($.20) per hour premium on the afternoon or second shift for all hours of work performed on such shift and thirty cents ($.30) per hour premium on the evening or third shift for all hours of work performed on such shift.
(e)	If a seasonal employee is unable to report for work, for any reason, he shall notify his Supervisor or Human Resources department prior to the commencement of the scheduled shift, and why he is unable to report for work and when he expects to report for work.
ARTICLE 28
HEALTH AND SAFETY
28.01	(a) The Company will make reasonableprovisions for the safety and health of the employees in the plant during their working hours. The Company agrees to notify the Chief Steward of any lost time accidents in the bargaining unit.
(b)	The Company will supply copies of “Form 7” Compensation forms immediately and copies of “Restrictions List” to the Chief Steward.
(c)	The Company and the Union will work jointly to promote the safe operation of the plant. The company agreesto work with the Union to provide education related to the health and safety of its employees.
69
The Joint Health and Safety Committee members will assist in the development and communication of safety regulations and safe work practices, and, in conjunction with the supervisor provide the necessary notification to employees when they observe unsafe work practices, behaviour or conditions.
In addition,the Company will establish department safety committees to address health and safety issues within those departments.
ARTICLE 29
DURATION
29.01	ThisAgreement shall becomeeffectivethe 1 st day of April, 2002 and shall remainineffectuntilthe31st day of March 2005.
29.02	Either party to this Agreement may, within the period of ninety (90) calendar days prior to the 31st day of March of 2005 give notice in writing to the other party of its desire to make a new agreement.
ARTICLE 30
LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
30.01 The Company and the Union recognizethe value of cooperation in the solution cf problems common to the relations between them. For purpose of improving such
— 70 —
relations and reaching mutual understandings as to the properaims and objectives of each other, the joint labour-management committee shall be established within thirty (30) days after the execution <f this Contract consisting cf representatives of the Company and the Union. Only persons employed by the Company or the Union shall serve on this Committee. The Labour-Management Committee shall meet monthly and shall consider such mattersas shall be mutuallyagreed upon except that such committee shall not consider any matter which properly should be considered in the Grievance Procedure.
OTHER
MERRILL LYNCHTYPE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
The Company will agree to make available to Wheatley employees, an optional, Merrill Lynch type employee stock purchase plan. This plan which is still under development, will enable employees to purchase, at a discount, via payroll deduction, share cf H. J. Heinz common stock.
The plan will be offeredas soon as it isavailable in Canada (anticipated 1/00).
71
SCHEDULE”A
(A) (CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES FOR SENIORITY EMPLOYEES SAVE AND EXCEPT SENIORITY EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEDINTHE SKILLED TRADES DEPARTMENTS)
I	HOURLY RATE OF PAY
AS AT:	APRIL 1AM	APRIL 1A3	APRIL 104	
JOB GRADE 1.	General 2,	Heavy Labour Janitor InsideJanitor	$16.05	$16.65	$17.20	
3. Padlocker/Casemaker Bandsaw Operator Lift Truck Driver Sanitation's1 Crewperson CaseprintingMakeup Bobcat Operator Yard Man Tote Controller	$16,40	$17.00	$17.55	
4. Utility Person* Plantl Utility Person- Plant2 PackagingLlne operator Production InventoryClerk Warehouseperson Onion Peeler Operator Automatic Palletizer Operator Smett Machine Operator Perch Machine Operator Filleter scale House	$16.70	$17.30	$17.85	
5. Fishline Operator Vegline operator ProcessControloperator Mix Room Operator	$16.80	$17.40	$17.95	
5A Cold Storage Driver Cold Storage 1 nventoryClerk Health & Safety Trainer	$16.90	$17.50	$18.05	
6. 1 eader	*17.15	$17.75	$18.30	
Note #1 - Pori Stanley
Bargaining unitemployee(s) at the Port Stanley Operation will be paid the Grade One pay rate as outlined above.
Note #2 - Lift Truck Drivers
Where required, employees will be scheduled in their department in the Lift Truck Driver classification and they may be utilized in other departments during the shin if necessary.
72
(B) PIECEWORK (SENIORITY EMPLOYEES)
RATES PER POUND- BASEDON60 LB. ROUNDWEIGHT
1st Year 2nd Year 3rd Year
(i) Hand Filleters (cents/pound)
Dressed Pickerel	$.12
Dressed White Perch	.16
Dressed Bass	.12
Medium Bass Fillets	.29
Small Bass Fillets	.31
Large Bass Fillets	.29
Butterfly Perch Fillets	.43
Small Butterfly Perch Fillets	.45
Perch Special Split Fillets	.43
Small Perch Special Split Fillets	.45
Yellow Pan H/G	.17
Yellow Fillets	.17
Pickerel Pieces&Tails	.23
Cohoe Fillet	.22
Skinless Yellow Fillets	.23
Yellow Special Split Fillets	.20
Whitefish Fillets	.22
.13
.17
.13
.30
.32
.30
.44
.46
.44
.46
.18
.18
.24
.23
.24
.21
.23
.14
.18
.14
.31
.33
.31
.45
.47
.44
.47
.19
.19
.25
.24
.25
.22
.24
Note #1
When Hand Filleters are engaged in hand filleting, they will be paid no less than the rate of pay of the Filleter classification as provided in Schedule (A).
Note #2
When Hand Filleters are not engaged in hand filleting, they will be paidthe rate of pay of the Generalclassification as provided in Schedule (A).
73
(ii) Perch Machine Rates
Effective Date April 1, 1995
Note#1 (a)
Perch Machine Operators will receive in addition to their piecework earnings, $11.30 per hourworked.
Note#1 (b)
When Perch Machine Operators are engaged in the operation of the Perch Machines, they will be paid no less than the rate of pay of the Perch Machine Operator classification as provided in Schedule (A).
Note #2
When Perch Machine Operators are not operating the Perch Machines, they will be paid the rate of pay of the General classification as provided in Schedule (A).
(iii) Smelt Machine Rates Daily Rate
Number of Fish April April April 1.2002 1.2003	1.2004
74
44.000
45.000
46.000
47.000
48.000
49.000
50.000
51.000
52.000
53.000
54.000
55.000
56.000
57.000
58.000
59.000
60.000
61,000
62,000
63.000
64.000
65.000
66.000
67.000
68.000
69.000
70.000
71.000
72.000
73.000
74.000	■
75.000	■
76.000
77.000	■
78.000	■
79.000	■
80.000	■
81,000	•
■	44,999
■	45,999
■	46,999
47.999
■	48,999
■	49,999
50.999
51.999
52.999
53.999
54.999
55.999
56.999
57.999
58.999
59.999
60.999
61.999
62.999
63.999
64.999
65.999
66.999
67.999
68.999
69.999
70.999
71.999
72.999
73.999
74.999
75.999
76.999
77.999
78.999
79.999
80.999
81.999
142.39
142.78
143.16
143.55
143.93
144.32
144.70
145.09
145.47
145.86
146.24
146.63
147.01
147.40
147.78
148.17
148.55
148.94
149.32
149.71
150.09
150.48
150.86
151.25
151.63
152.02
152.40
152.79
153.17
153.56
153.94
154.33
154.71
155.10
155.48
155.87
156.25
156.64
145.39
145.78
146.16
146.55
146.93
147.32
147.70
148.09
148.47
148.86
149.24
149.63
150.01
150.40
150.78
151.17
151.55
151.94
152.32
152.71
153.09
153.48
153.86
154.25
154.63
155.02
155.40
155.79
156.17
156.56
156.94
157.33
157.71
158.10
158.48
158.87
159.25
159.64
148.39
148.78
149.16
149.55
149.93
150.32
150.70
151.09
151.47
151.86
152.24
152.63
153.01
153.40
153.78
154.17
154.55
154.94
155.32
155.71
156.09
156.48
156.86
157.25
157.63
158.02
158.40
158.79
159.17
159.56
159.94
160.33
160.71
161.10
161.48
161.87
162.25
162.64
75
82.000	- 82,999
83.000	• 83,999
84.000	- 84,999
85.000	- 85,999
86.000	- 86,999
87.000	■ 87,999
88.000	- 88,999
89.000	- 89,999
90.000	- 90,999
Note#1 (a)
157.02	160.02	163.02
157.41	160.41	163.41
157,79	160.79	163.79
158.18	161.18 164.18
158.56	161.56	164.56
158.95	161.95	164.95
159.33	162.33	165.33
159.72	162.72	165.72
160.10	163.10	166.10
Smelt Machine Operators will receive, in addition to their piece work earnings, $11.30 per hour worked.
Note#1 (b)
When Smelt Machine Operators are engaged in the operationof the Smelt Machines, they will be paid no less than the rate of pay of the Smelt Machine Operator classification as provided in Schedule (A).
Note #2
When Smelt Machine Operators are not operating the Smelt Machines, they will be paid the rate of pay of the General classification as provided in Schedule (A).
(C) PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
The starting rate for probationaryemployeesshall not be lessthan twenty cents ($.20) per hour above the seasonal rate as outlined in Article 27.03 (d). After completion of the probationaryperiod, seniority employees will be paid the applicable hourly rate.
76
SCHEDULE“B”
GUILDELINES FOR PLANTWIDE CREWING
(REFERENCE TO SUB-ARTICLE 10.02 (B))
A. SCHEDULING SET UP FOR THE WEEK
Crewing requirementsobtained from supervision.
I CLASSIFIED POSITIONS
•	Determine the total number of classified employees required on each shift in each department and crew as follows:
•	Classified employees from that shift in that department
•	Back up employees in those classifications, from that shift, in that department.
•	Senior available employees in that classification,from the plantwideseniority list.
•	Senior available back up employees in that classification,from the plantwideseniority list.
•	Senior qualified employees from that shift in that department.
•	Senior qualifiedemployeesfrom the plantwide seniority list.
77
II UNION STEWARDS
• If union stewards have not been crewed in their classification per above, crew them as “heavy” (or light) if required.
Ill	HEAVY AND LIGHT
•	Determine the total number of “Heavy and Light" employees required.
•	Go to plant wide seniority list and count the total number of “Heavy and Light” required.
•	Out of that total number required in the Company:
Crew Heavy and Light labour in “home” department/home shift.
•	If still Heavy and Light to crew, and no more jobs in their home department/shift, crew:
By seniority:	same shift
other shift
B. LAYOFF
•	Determinewhere lay off is: shift, department, classification
I. CLASSIFIED
•	Go to junior classified on that shift, in that department (where layoff is) -they become “heavy” or “light” general.
78
•	That junior classified (now general) will displace the most junior heavy or general on that shift, in that department (if any).
•	The junior general employee displaces the junior heavy or general in the Company, wherever they are (regardless of shift).
•	The junior employee in the Company gets laid off.
II. UNION STEWARD
•	Union Steward is retained in department/shift if there is work.
III.	HEAVY LABOUR
• Same procedures as above.
IV.	LIGHT GENERAL
• Same procedure as above.
C. REPLACEMENTS DURING THE WEEK
I. When additional employees are required, the Company will return appropriate employees back to their home department and shift (where applicable) before laid off or junior employees. These employees cannot refuse this work; even if this work is on the opposite shift.
— 79 —
II. Following the above step, employees are recalledfrom lay off as per sub-article 10.01 of the Collective Agreement.
Note#1
Employees who are scheduled to perform classified work may, if there is not enough work in their classification, perform general duties as required to provide them with eight (8) hours of work. This will not affect the number of general workers required under current operating circumstanceswho are scheduled to perform production duties.
Note #2
Employeeswith the same senioritydate will be scheduled by plantwide order number.
Signed this 21 st day of March 2002
FORTHE COMPANY Ross Craig Sheila Cromarty Jim Whittal
FOR THE UNION
Perry Sabelli Dennis Pinch Rui Rebelo Tony Couto John Blokker Chris Avelar Rolando Cabral Paul McGee
80
Letter of Intent between Omstead Foods Limited and United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 459 Re: Refrigeration Schedule
It is mutually understood,that the Company and the Union will meet immediatelyfollowing ratificationof this contract to work out any additional details of the first (1st) option of the new RefrigerationSchedule.
OPTION I:
i)	must obtain permission from M.C.C.R. to run Plant One on weekends with no operator unless production is scheduled in for all shifts required.
ii)	the Company will follow the guidelinesexpressedby the M.C.C.R.
iii)	should work be scheduled at Plant One on the weekends, the person who is listed on the schedule for that weekend will perform the duties required.
iv)	present schedule remains.
v)	this proposal must be exhausted fully before the 2nd option would come into effect.
vi)	employees affected will be eligible for the maximum pensioncontribution of forty (40) hours per week even though they are scheduled off during regular hours.
OPTION II:
i)	five (5) mandatory days off per week in accordance with the refrigeration schedule attached.
ii)	it is understoodthat affected Refrigerationemployees will be eligible for the maximum pension contribution of forty (40) hours per week even though they are scheduled off during regular hours.
— 81 —
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
OMSTEAD FOODS LIMITED AND
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIALWORKERS UNION LOCAL459
It is mutually agreed that the Company and the Union shall review all Letters of Intent, Letters of Understanding and/or Mutual Agreements to determine those letters which are still active and pertinent. Once agreed, these letters will be copied to the appropriate Stewards, Supervisors and/or Managers.
Signed on this 21 st date of March, 2002.
For The Company	For The Union
82
LETTER OF INTENT
It is agreed between the parties that the Company will make available to the Chief Steward or an individual employee upon request a report from the Time and Attendance System that represents how gross wages were computed.
For The Company
For The Union
83
LETTER OF INTENT
The Company agrees to provide the Chief Steward with a computer and printer for the union office.
For The Company
For The Union
84
LETTER OF INTENT
The Company will continue to deal with emergencies and necessary relief as required. Wfe will not utilize non union people to perform union work on a scheduled basis or when employees are laid off, who would be available to do that work.
The Company will address this issue with the supervisors and the new operations leadership regarding violations of this section of the CollectiveAgreement. To the extent violations occur the Company recognizesthe Unions right io grieve these violations.
For The Company	For The Union
85