Collective Agreement
Between:
Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation
And
retail, wholesale Canada
Canadian Service Sector Division Canadian Auto Workers
afl-cio, clc local 561
EXPIRY DATE: APRIL 30, 2008
TABLE OF CONTENTS ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSES	2
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS	2
ARTICLE 3 - RECOGNITION	3
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS	4
ARTICLE 5 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS	5
ARTICLE 6 - UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF	5
ARTICLE 7 - APPOINTMENT OF STEWARDS	6
ARTICLE 8 - USE OF CORPORATION FACILITIES	7
ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES	7
ARTICLE 10 - ARBITRATION	9
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY	11
ARTICLE 12 - JOB TRANSFERS	15
ARTICLE 13 - JOB POSTING	15
ARTICLE 14 - DISCHARGE, SUSPENSION AND DISCIPLINE	16
ARTICLE 15 - UNIFORMS AND SUPPLIES	17
ARTICLE 16 - GENERAL PROVISIONS	18
ARTICLE 17 - HEALTH & SAFETY	20
SCHEDULE “A”	21
ARTICLE 18 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME	21
ARTICLE 19 - JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES	25
SCHEDULE “B”	26
ARTICLE 20 - VACATION WITH PAY	26
SCHEDULE “C”	29
ARTICLE 21 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	29
SCHEDULE “D”	30
ARTICLE 22 - BENEFIT PROGRAM	30
ARTICLE 23 - PENSION PLAN	30
ARTICLE 24 - SICKNESS AND DISABILITY	31
ARTICLE 25 - LIFE INSURANCE PLAN	33
ARTICLE 26 - DENTAL PLAN	33
ARTICLE 27 - EXTENDED HEALTHCARE	33
ARTICLE 28 - POST RETIREMENT HEALTHCARE COVERAGE	34
ARTICLE 29 - TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT	34
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SEVERANCE PAY	36
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SICK AND DISABILITY REQUEST FOR PAYMENT	37
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - OVERTIME	38
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SUPERANNUATION AGREEMENT	39
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - MAINTENANCE	40
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - JOINT LABOUR-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE	41
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - PROCESSING OF PICKEREL/SAUGER	42
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND & LOCAL 561 SOCIAL	
COMMITTEE FUND	43
1
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSES
1.01
ARTICLE 2
2.01
The purposes of this agreement are:
a)	to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Corporation and its plant employees;
b)	to establish procedure for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances; and;
c)	to promote and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours of work and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this agreement. All subject to the provisions of Article 4.
DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this agreement:
a)	"Union" means the National Automobile, Aerospace Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW/TcA) Local 561.
b)	"Bargaining Unit" means the employees of the employer described in Article 3;
c)	"Corporation" means the Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation;
d)	"Daily rate of pay" means the employee's hourly rate of pay multiplied by eight;
e)	"Overtime" means work performed by an employee in excess of eight hours in a day or in excess of forty hours in his scheduled work week for all employees;
f)	"Straight-time rate" means the regular hourly rate of pay;
g)	"Time and one-half" means one and one-half times the straight time rate;
h)	"Double time" means twice the straight time rate;
i)	"Employee" means an employee who is a member of the bargaining unit;
j)	"Hourly rate of pay" means the rate of pay scheduled in Article 19 applicable to the employee's classification;
2
ARTICLE 3
3.01
k)	"Layoff" means an employee whose employment has been temporarily terminated because of lack of work, and who is subject to recall to work;
l)	"Union dues" means the dues established pursuant to the constitution of the Union as the dues payable by its members as a consequence of their membership in the Union, and shall not include any initiation fee, insurance premium, or special levy.
m)	"Leadhand" is a person who performs work and directs the work of others, and shall not have the authority to hire, fire, suspend, or otherwise discipline other employees. A leadhand shall be a Union member.
n)	Industrial mechanic means a person who has a certificate of qualification from a recognized certified trade school, and is licensed as a journeyman industrial mechanic by provincial or federal licensing authorities.
o)	Maintenance journeyman means a person who holds more than one (1) trade certificate from a recognized certified trade school, and is licensed as a journeyman in both trades.
p)	Maintenance Helper means a person who normally assists a Maintenance Mechanic, Industrial Mechanic or Maintenance Journeyman in the completion of tasks. However the Maintenance helper is also expected to perform and complete tasks on their own.
q)	Maintenance Mechanic means a person who is responsible for completing more complex tasks in the maintenance department on their own.
RECOGNITION
The Canada Labour Relations Board has not certified the Union as the bargaining agent for plant employees, but nonetheless, the Corporation voluntarily recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all plant employees of the Corporation in the Province of Manitoba, except:
a)	Employees excluded from the bargaining unit during the currency of this agreement;
b)	Foremen, supervisors and persons above the rank of supervisor;
3
ARTICLE 4
4.01
4.02
4.03
4.04
c)	Office staff;
d)	Employees described by the Certificate of Certification issued by the Canada Labour Relations Board dated February 22nd, 1973. (No. of Certificate F-66-2694).
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
The Union recognizes the undisputed right of the Corporation to operate and to manage its business in all respects and to make and to alter from time to time rules and regulations which are to be observed by employees.
The Union recognizes the right of the Corporation to hire, to promote, to lay off, to recall, to transfer, to suspend, to discipline, and to discharge any employee for just cause, subject to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance in the manner and to the extent hereinafter provided.
The Union recognizes the right of the Corporation to operate and to manage its business in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities without limiting the generality of the foregoing. It shall be the prerogative of the Corporation to decide upon operating techniques, methods, machinery, and equipment, the schedules of production, processes and means of production of its products, and all other matters which can be justified on the basis of prudent business operations.
The exercise of the foregoing rights shall not alter any of the provisions of this agreement. The Corporation shall not exercise this right in a discriminatory manner and shall act in a manner which is fair, reasonable, in good faith, and consistent with the collective agreement.
The Union and the Corporation mutually agree that the employees coming under its jurisdiction, and Management, will abide by all the terms of this Agreement.
When new rules and/or regulations are to be implemented by Management they shall be discussed with the Union executive five (5) working days prior to the date the new rules or regulations are to be implemented. If the Union executive is not in agreement with the new rules and/or regulations, they may be referred to the grievance and arbitration process set out in this Agreement.
4
ARTICLE 5 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
5.01
5.02
5.03
ARTICLE 6
6.01
6.02
6.03
SLOWDOWNS OR INTERRUPTIONS OF PRODUCTION
It is agreed that the Union will not, during the term of this Agreement, authorize, promote, direct, condone, or encourage any slowdown or other curtailment or restriction of production or interference with work in or about the Corporation’s plants or premises nor will employees take part in any such actions.
STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS DURING THE LIFE OF THE AGREEMENT
It is agreed that the Union will not, during the life of this Agreement, authorize, promote, direct, condone or encourage a strike of employees affected by this Agreement nor will employees take part in any such action. It is agreed that the Corporation will not during the life of this Agreement lock out employees.
It is not the intention of the Corporation during the life of this Agreement to contract out any work currently being performed by the maintenance department and should the need arise to contract out this work the Corporation shall first consult with the Union to see if it can first be done within the required time by existing maintenance employees.
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
All employees of the Corporation covered by this agreement who are existing members of the Union shall as a condition of employment maintain their membership in good standing for the duration of the agreement. All new employees upon completion of two hundred and fifty (250) working hours shall as a condition of employment become members of the Union.
The Corporation agrees to a check-off of the amount of regular monthly union dues of all employees and shall transmit the amount so deducted, along with a list of the names of the employees from whom such deductions were made, to the Union office prior to the 15th day of each month.
a)	Union dues will be deducted monthly.
The Corporation agrees that all new employees shall on the first day of employment sign a post-dated application for membership in the Union effective upon completion of 250 working hours, which shall provide for Corporation deduction of initiation fees, Union dues and assessments.
5
For the convenience of the Corporation, application forms shall be supplied by the Union.
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07
6.08
ARTICLE 7
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Corporation harmless against any claim or liability arising out of the application of this article except for any claim or liability arising out of an error committed by the Corporation in connection with deduction of the amount equal to the monthly membership dues.
The Corporation agrees to show a year-to-date total of union dues paid on each employee's pay stub.
The Corporation agrees to include union dues deductions on the employee's T4 slips.
The Corporation agrees to deduct from those employees who are absent for any reason other than layoff, the dues missed by the employee for the period of absence.
The Corporation will provide an on-site Union office with a desk, computer and printer and telephone for local calls only for the use of the Union and Union Committees.
The local Union executive will be in charge of the keys, however the Corporation will retain keys for access in the case of an emergency.
APPOINTMENT OF STEWARDS
The Corporation acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint employees as stewards.
The Union shall notify the Corporation promptly and in writing of the names of its stewards.
Union officers and committee members shall be entitled to leave their work station during working hours in order to carry out their functions under this agreement, including but not limited to, the investigation and processing of grievances, attendance at meetings with the employer and/or the Union representative.
Permission to leave their work station during working hours for such purposes shall first be obtained from their immediate supervisor. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
6
7.05
ARTICLE 8
8.01
8.02
ARTICLE 9
9.01
9.02
The Corporation agrees to pay their employees, at the regular straight time rate, who are Union officers, shop stewards or on committees fulfilling their Union duties while attending meetings, and/or investigating and processing grievances pertaining to the Corporation. The time and place to be approved by both the Corporation and the Union.
- USE OF CORPORATION FACILITIES
If an authorized Union representative, who is not employed by the Corporation, desires to speak to local Union representatives in the plant about a grievance or other official Union business, he shall first obtain approval (which shall not be unreasonably withheld), of the Plant Manager or his designate, who shall then call the local Union representative(s) to the office where they may confer privately. These discussions will be arranged so that they will not interfere with production.
The Corporation agrees to supply one (1) bulletin board for the exclusive use of the Union. The Corporation shall have the right to refuse the posting of any information which it considers adverse to its interests or to the interests of any of its representatives. All notices must be signed by the proper officers of the Union. Corporation to supply lockable bulletin board.
- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
GENERAL
a)	The time limits presented in this Article may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
b)	An employee who presents a complaint or grievance at any stage may, if the employee so desires, be assisted or represented by a duly elected representative of the Union.
c)	A grievance may be presented by an employee on his own behalf or on behalf of himself and one or more other employees.
COMPLAINTS
a)	An employee shall have the right to discuss and settle with the supervisor of their department any complaint they may have. Such discussions shall take place within 48 hours of the date when the employee first became aware of the circumstances giving rise to the complaint.
7
9.03
9.04
9.05
b)	In the event that the supervisor fails to satisfactorily resolve that complaint within forty-eight (48) hours of notification, the employee may refer the matter to the Plant Manager or his designate.
c)	The Plant Manager or his designate may resolve the complaint within forty-eight (48) hours of presentation, or failing this, the complaint may be submitted in writing as a formal grievance.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES - STAGE 1
An employee, whether they have complied with Article 9.01, 9.02, or not, who feel themselves to be aggrieved, shall have the right to present a written grievance in accordance with the following procedures:
a)	An employee may present their grievance to the supervisor of their department within ten (10) days of the date on which they first became aware of the action or circumstances giving rise to the grievance.
b)	The grievance shall state the nature of the grievance, the article violated, and the redress sought.
c)	The supervisor shall reply to the grievance within forty-eight (48) hours of its presentation. If the supervisor fails to reply within the said time period the grievance shall be deemed to be denied at this stage.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES - STAGE 2
a)	Should the supervisor fail to satisfactorily resolve the grievance within forty-eight (48) hours of notification, the employee shall refer the matter to the shop steward of the department.
b)	Within a period of three (3) days after expiration of the time period in (c) of Stage 1, the shop steward, with or without the grievor in attendance, may take the matter up with the supervisor of the department.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES - STAGE 3
a)	Should the grievance still remain unresolved, the Union may take the matter up with the Plant Manager or his designate within three (3) days.
b)	The Plant Manager or his designate will meet with the Union at a time mutually arranged to make his decision. Authorized Union
8
representatives from outside the plant may be involved at this stage.
9.06
9.07
ARTICLE 10
10.01
c)	Any decision made shall be given in writing within seven (7) days of the grievance being filed at Stage Three (3).
d)	If the grievance is denied, the Union may process the grievance to arbitration.
POLICY GRIEVANCE
In respect of any violation of the agreement, the Union may, in its discretion, file a Union, group or policy grievance. In such a case, the procedure shall commence at Stage Three (3) of Article 9.
CORPORATION GRIEVANCE
The Corporation shall have the right to institute a grievance in respect of any violation of this Agreement, and the grievance shall be served on the President or Chief Steward of the Union, with a copy by registered mail to the Union. In such case, the procedure shall commence at Stage 3 of Article 9.
- ARBITRATION
COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF ARBITRATION
When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, the request shall be made by registered mail addressed to the other party of the Agreement, indicating so. The parties agree to the use of a single person Board of Arbitration. The following persons will be called upon, on a rotation basis commencing with the first person on the list, who shall then serve at the first arbitration. Thereafter, for each successive arbitration the person on the list immediately following the last person to have served as Arbitrator shall then be called upon to serve. In the event that the person requested to serve is unavailable to hear the matter within 60 calendar days the next person on the list shall be requested to serve. In the event that all parties on the list are unavailable to hear the matter within 60 calendar days the matter shall be referred to the person who was first contacted to hear the matter.
1.	Mr. Martin H. Freedman, QC
2.	Mr. Paul S. Teskey
3.	Ms. Diane Jones
9
10.02
10.03
10.04
10.05
10.06
10.07
10.08
BOARD PROCEDURE
The Board may determine its own procedure, but shall give full opportunity to all parties to present evidence and make representations to it.
DECISIONS OF THE ARBITRATOR
The Arbitrator shall render his or her decision within 21 working days of hearing the matter. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding and enforceable on all parties, but in no event shall the Arbitrator have the power to change this Agreement or to alter, modify or amend any of its provisions. However, the Arbitrator shall have the right to dispose of any grievance made pursuant to Article 14 by confirming the Management's action in dismissing the employee or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for lost time, or by any other arrangement which the Arbitrator deems just and equitable.
DISAGREEMENT ON DECISION
Should the parties disagree as to the meaning of the decision, either party, within ten (10) days of the receipt of the arbitration award, may apply to the Arbitrator to meet with the parties to clarify the decision. The Arbitrator shall meet promptly with the parties and clarify its decision.
EXPENSES OF THE BOARD
Each party shall pay one-half the fees and expenses of the Arbitrator. AMENDING OF THE LIMIT
The time limit fixed on both the grievance and arbitration procedure may be extended by consent of the parties to this Agreement.
WITNESSES
At any stage of the grievance or arbitration procedure, the parties may have the assistance of the employee(s) concerned as witness(es) and any other witnesses, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties or the arbitrator(s) to have access to the Corporation's premises to view any working conditions which may be relevant to the settlement of the grievance.
No person may serve on the Board of Arbitration who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
10
10.09
When a period of time as outlined in Article Nine (9) and Ten (10) is expressed as a number of days, that number of days shall not include Saturday, Sunday, or any other non-working days.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11.01
11.02
a)	An employee, other than those in the Maintenance Classifications shall be on probation until completion of two hundred and fifty (250) working hours. An employee in Maintenance Classifications shall be on probation during his first six (6) months of employment. During the probationary period the employee shall be entitled to all rights and privileges of this Agreement except where specifically excluded, and during the probationary period the employee may be laid off without reference to seniority. A probationary employee discharged shall have no right to the grievance procedure in respect to such discharge. After completion of the probationary period, seniority shall be established from the date the employee first entered the service of the Corporation.
b)	For the purpose of seniority the length of service as shown on the Corporation's records shall be the determining factor.
c)	Seniority shall be on a plant-wide basis.
d)	A list showing seniority of service shall be forwarded to the Union office in January and July of each year, along with an updated list of addresses and phone numbers as supplied by the employees.
e)	In matters of filling new positions and vacancies, the Corporation agrees that seniority will be the determining factor, provided the employee has the qualifications and ability to perform the regular duties of the job.
f)	Where two or more employees are hired on the same day, seniority shall be determined alphabetically. This applies to new hires effective December 1, 1993.
LAYOFF AND RECALL
a)	In the matter of a layoff, the employee with the least seniority will be laid off first.
b)	Recalls will be in the reverse order of layoff.
11
11.03
c)	No new employees will be hired while there are available employees laid off who are qualified to perform the work.
d)	Employees who have been laid off due to lack of work shall retain and continue to accumulate seniority for a period of ten (10) consecutive months.
e)	Two lists of recall and layoff reports will be supplied to the Chief Steward.
f)	Subject to the exceptions contained in paragraph (g) below, all employees, with the exception of probationary employees as defined in Article 11.01 (a) who are to be laid off and who are subject to recall to work shall be entitled to two (2) days notice before layoff or two (2) days pay in lieu of such notice.
g)	Paragraph 11.02 (f) above shall not apply to new employees until they have worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate as described in Article 19, or have four (4) years of continuous seniority. The aforesaid employees who are to be laid off and are subject to recall to work shall be entitled to one (1) day’s notice before layoff or one (1) day's pay in lieu of such notice. When such an employee has worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate as described in Article 19, or has four (4) years of continuous seniority, the provisions of 11.02 (f) above shall apply thereafter.
h)	Layoff will be by seniority in the Maintenance Department without reference to Plant seniority. Such layoff shall be determined by the need for specific qualifications to ensure the continued safe and efficient operation of the Plant. Maintenance personnel shall have no rights to bump into the Plant. Any deviation from the above-mentioned procedure regarding layoffs and recalls will be carried out following consultation and with the agreement of the Union, and will be subject to Article 9 and 10 in this collective agreement.
The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights
forfeited and there shall be no obligation to rehire, when an employee:
a)	voluntarily leaves the service of the Corporation or is dismissed for just cause;
b)	fails to return to work within two (2) days after being telephoned or notified by registered letter to their last given address on the Corporation record. It is the responsibility of the employee to keep
12
11.04
11.05
the Corporation and the Union informed at all times of any changes in their address and telephone number.
c)	has been laid off for more than ten (10) consecutive months;
d)	rejects an offer of work in response to a recall notice following a layoff;
e)	is absent from work for two (2) days or more without notifying the Corporation with a justifiable reason acceptable to the Corporation, in which case the employee shall be considered to have resigned.
f)	engages in other gainful employment while on sick leave or compensation.
TRANSFER OUT OF BARGAINING UNIT
a)	No employee shall be transferred to a position outside of the bargaining unit without their consent. An employee who accepts a position outside of the bargaining unit will continue to accumulate seniority for a twelve (12) month period. An employee who returns to the bargaining unit within this twelve (12) month period will be credited with seniority accumulated to date and will be classified as process labour.
b)	The Corporation will deduct and remit to the Union the arrears of Union dues for this employee for this period of time within two (2) months of their return to the bargaining unit.
c)	An employee will only be allowed to return to the bargaining unit once, and further, it must be within this 12 month period.
d)	An employee terminated while in a position outside the bargaining unit will not be able to return to the bargaining unit nor will the employee have access to the grievance or arbitration procedure.
TEMPORARY TRANSFER
a)	Due to fluctuations in fish receipts which necessitate a temporary increase or decrease from one or more groups, as defined below, the transfer of employees will be by seniority. The junior employee will be transferred providing they can perform the work satisfactorily. An employee who has been transferred will be required to return to the job from which they were transferred when work becomes available on the job.
13
11.06
b)	The groups referred to in Article 11.05 (a) above are as follows:
-	Processing and Pre-Processing
-	Cool Room
-	Fresh Receiving and Repack
-	Grading Room and Tunnels
-	Dry Storage
-	Cold Storage
-	Quality Control
c)	Where it is necessary to secure workers at notice of less than two (2) days to fill temporary positions because of illness, accident, extra vacation, bereavement leave or leave of absence (of two (2) days or less), the Corporation, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recall the next eligible senior employee and so on down the list until the temporary vacancy is filled. Employees recalled under such circumstances shall retain the job to which they are appointed until replaced by the employee with whom the Corporation was unable to communicate with. When replaced by the more senior employee, then the junior recalled employee will be on immediate layoff and the laid off junior employee and the employee filling the temporary vacancy will not be entitled to any weekly guarantee. The Corporation agrees a Union executive officer, or in their absence a shop steward, will be present and will record the name(s) of the employee(s) called and the time of day they were called to verify the call-in was by order of seniority.
d)	A temporary assignment shall be one of thirty (30) calendar days or less, or a temporary assignment created because of sickness, vacation, accident or approved leave of absence. After the thirty (30) calendar days the Corporation and the Union shall meet and discuss whether the temporary assignment should be extended or if the job classification should be posted. If the Union and the Corporation fail to agree whether the job should be posted it will be subject to Article 9 and 10.
SHIFT CHANGES
Should it be necessary to make shift changes, the procedure will be:
a)	requests for such changes will be dealt with on a seniority basis;
b)	should no employee wish to make a shift change, the employee with the least seniority on the shift where the shortage of work occurred must accept the shift change;
14
c)	an employee can exercise their seniority rights for shift preference when a recall occurs. It will be dealt with as follows:
1)	When an employee is recalled they will be advised of their shift and
start time.
2)	Once an employee has returned to work and they do not wish the
shift that they have been assigned, he or she may exercise their seniority rights for a different shift by notifying their supervisor of their preference for a different shift. This will be done by the employee completing a "Shift Change Request Form” and giving it to their supervisor.
3)	Once the supervisor receives the "Shift Change Request Form” the
employee will be placed upon their preferred shift as soon as operational requirements allow for it, but in any event no later than 2 working days (i.e. employee gives the supervisor the "Shift Change Request Form” on Monday; they will be moved to their requested shift no later than Wednesday).
In the event an employee wishes to exercise their preference for a change in shift at any time other than a recall, the employee will follow the procedure set out above and the change will occur on the first day of work of the week immediately following the request.
The Corporation shall post by 3 p.m. every Friday the shift schedule effective the following week showing employee seniority and shift preferences.
ARTICLE 12 - JOB TRANSFERS
12.01	a) Employees transferred temporarily at the request of the Corporation
to jobs having a lower wage rate shall continue to receive the rate paid for their regular job.
b)	Employees transferred temporarily at the request of the Corporation to jobs having a higher wage rate shall receive the higher wage rate.
ARTICLE 13 - JOB POSTING
13.01	All permanent job vacancies or newly created jobs shall, within two (2)
working days of such permanent job vacancy or newly created job becoming available, be posted on the plant bulletin board for three (3) working days. During this time employees who have completed the probationary period of employment may make application for transfer to
15
such jobs. Seniority will be the determining factor, provided the employee has the qualifications and ability to perform the regular duties of the job. The Corporation agrees to provide a period of on the job familiarization for the successful candidate. The length of time for this on the job familiarization shall be determined by the Corporation and shall consist of a period of up to two (2) weeks and will be indicated on the job posting for the position. Accepted employees will be given this on the job familiarization followed by a probationary period of 250 working hours. An employee who has not successfully completed their probationary period will revert back to their previous position.
13.02	Employees who bid on and are accepted for Job Postings in the Sanitation Department must commit to the posting for a minimum of twelve (12) months.
13.03	Subject to Article 11.02, employees who complete the requirements of Article 13.02 may, at anytime thereafter, relinquish their position and exercise their seniority to bump back into the Plant. A minimum of two (2) weeks’ written notice to their immediate Supervisor is required.
13.04	Sanitation personnel shall have the right to exercise their seniority to bump into the Plant, subject to Article 13.02
13.05	Under extenuating circumstances the Corporation and the Union may allow an employee not to complete the obligations set out in 13.02
13.06	Sanitation employees will not be required to perform any other duties except sanitation.
ARTICLE 14 - DISCHARGE, SUSPENSION AND DISCIPLINE
14.01	When an employee other than a probationary employee has been dismissed or suspended without notice, he shall have the right to interview his Shop Steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the plant premises.
14.02	An employee shall be notified in writing by the employer with a copy to the secretary of the Union or the department steward as to the reasons for the discharge or suspension, and the length of the suspension. Such notice shall be given prior to the employee leaving the Plant.
14.03	In order to ensure that discipline throughout the plant is applied in a fair and even-handed manner, the Corporation shall use the following guidelines for similar offences, recognizing that some offences may result in immediate suspension or dismissal:
16
14.04
14.05
14.06
14.07
14.08
ARTICLE 15
15.01
15.02
15.03
a)	verbal warning
b)	written warning
c)	a suspension or suspensions in line with the severity of the case
d)	termination
Two (2) copies of discipline reports will be supplied to the Chief Steward.
Disciplinary memos will be on the employee's file for a period of one (1) year. After one (1) year of no further infractions, the disciplinary memos shall be removed from the employee's file.
An employee shall have the right to have a steward present at any discussion with supervisory personnel which is the basis of disciplinary action. This shall only apply if a steward is in the plant at the time.
An employee, immediately upon request, will have access to review their personnel record on their own time, in the personnel office during office hours.
Any disagreement as to the accuracy of information contained in the file will be discussed with the Plant Manager. If it is found that information is incorrect, the appropriate changes will be made and shall become part of the employee's record. All disciplinary reports placed in the files must have a corresponding copy given to the employee involved and two copies given to the Chief Steward.
- UNIFORMS AND SUPPLIES
The Corporation will supply safety rubber boots (non-skid), uniforms, hearing protection, beard nets, hairnets, full face masks if required, bump caps, aprons, knives, steels, sharpening stones, and gloves to the employees. Freezer room, shipping, fresh receiving, and repack to be supplied with suitable apparel and winter boots, all suitable for 20°F below zero. This apparel will remain the property of the Corporation and will be left on the Corporation premises at the completion of the working day.
Locks and lockers will be provided for each long-term employee and will be assigned according to seniority.
A non-refundable charge of $15.00 for rubber safety boots shall be deducted from the employee's pay. Replacement of rubber safety boots for reasons other than wear and tear whereby the old rubber boots are returned to the supply room, shall be assessed against the employee at the rate of $15.00 per pair for rubber safety boots. In the event of an
17
employee leaving the Corporation, the rubber safety boots become the property of the employee.
15.04	Employees shall be responsible for all supplies issued to them. A price list will be posted at the beginning of each contract year showing prices of all supplies. The cost price would be the amount deducted from an employee's cheque for replacement of supplies other than for normal wear and tear.
15.05	The Corporation will supply beard nets, vests, and winter boots for employees working on the tunnels and scangraders, as required.
15.06	All employees on the Maintenance seniority list will be reimbursed three hundred dollars ($300.00) upon presentation of receipts for footwear, tools, shirts, and pants, in each year of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 16 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
16.01	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
a)	Employees will be granted a leave of absence without pay to attend Union meetings and conventions. Time so granted does not affect the employee's vacation period nor seniority. The Employer agrees to pay the employees attending as if they were at work and to bill the Union for the reimbursement cost of wages and all benefits including the amount of any contributions required to be made by the employer. The Union agrees to reimburse the Employer for these costs. The Union will give the Corporation one (1) week's notice of such leave of absence. Request for leave of absence must be made in writing.
b)	The Corporation may grant leave of absence without pay up to one (1) year to any employee for a legitimate personal reason. To be valid, every application must be submitted in writing and approved by the Corporation in writing. An employee on a valid leave of absence shall retain their accumulated seniority and earn additional seniority to their said leave of absence.
c)	Leave of absence of up to one (1) year will be granted without pay to a maximum of two (2) employees at any one time when requested by the Union for the purpose of full time employment with the Union. During this period seniority will continue to accumulate. Upon return from such leave of absence, work similar to that which the employee last did will be provided.
18
16.02
16.03
16.04
16.05
16.06 16.07
The leave of absence clause as outlined above cannot be used to avoid losing seniority as provided in Article 11.03 (c) in the Collective Agreement.
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
In the event of a technological change, the provisions of the Canada Labour Code will apply.
NEW MACHINERY
In the event that new machinery should be brought in creating new classifications and jobs, wages and classifications for such shall be negotiated with the Union immediately.
SUPERVISORS WORKING
Supervisors will not in a continuous and sustained way, perform work usually done by employees in the bargaining unit, except:
a)	in cases of instructing employees; and
b)	when as a result of sudden sickness or accident there are no employees available to perform the work.
When a supervisor is going to be performing bargaining unit work in accordance with the allowable provisions set out above, the supervisor will make every effort to inform a committee member prior to doing the work, including the reason(s) why. In those situations where a supervisor cannot inform a committee member prior to doing the work, they shall do so as soon as practicable thereafter. Notwithstanding the above, in every instance where a committee member requests the reason why the supervisor is working, the reason(s) shall be provided.
NO DISCRIMINATION
The Corporation and the Union, and all employees covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement shall adhere to the provisions of the Federal Human Rights Code.
Employees will be allowed maternity/paternity leave in accordance with Division V.1 Section 59 of the Canada Labour Code Part III.
Where mandatory provisions of any statute enacted by the Government of Canada are more beneficial to an employee than the provisions contained
19
in this collective agreement, the said statutory provisions shall be deemed to supersede the provisions of the collective agreement.
ARTICLE 17 - HEALTH & SAFETY
17.01	The Union and the Corporation shall take all reasonable steps in order to promote and improve the health and safety practices. Additionally, the parties will co-operate in the application and enforcement of reasonable health and safety rules and practices, as published and posted by the Plant Management and the Health and Safety Committee.
17.02	The Corporation and all employees shall comply with all applicable Federal health and safety laws and regulations. Nothing precludes the Corporation and the Union from mutually agreeing on a safety and health procedure and/or practice which, in their opinion, would provide a greater measure of safety and health for employees than provided for in the Federal law or regulations.
17.03	There shall be established a health and safety committee composed of not more than five (5) representatives each from the Union and the Corporation. Any meeting convened by the committee must include equal representation from each party and shall be attended by a minimum of two (2) representatives from each party. The health and safety committee shall hold meetings at least once per month, or more frequently if necessary for the purpose of considering, monitoring, inspecting, investigating, reviewing and improving health and safety conditions and practices. Minutes shall be taken of all meetings and copies shall be sent to the Corporation and the Union.
17.04	Union members of the Health and Safety committee shall be entitled to sixteen (16) hours of paid leave per calendar year, to attend educational courses and seminars for instruction and upgrading on health and safety matters.
17.05	Time spent by members of the committee in the course of their duties as approved by the Corporation shall be considered as time worked.
17.06	The Corporation shall provide the members of the health and safety committee with a summary of each accident, or occurrence of an occupational disease that occurred at the workplace during the previous month. This summary will be provided at the monthly safety and health meetings.
17.07	The Corporation agrees the Union shall have the right to elect or appoint the Union committee members to the health and safety committee. The
20
17.08
17.09
ARTICLE 18
18.01
18.02
18.03
18.04
18.05
Union shall notify the Corporation in writing of the names of each representative.
Every three (3) months a plant inspection will be carried out by the safety committee. The inspection team will be limited to two (2) Union members and two (2) Management members.
There shall be no consuming of food or beverages nor smoking in the plant except in the cafeteria.
SCHEDULE"A"
- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
a)	All employees who have worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate of pay as described in Article 19 shall be guaranteed a thirty-six (36) hour work week, based on five (5) consecutive days Monday to Friday inclusive, with time and one-half paid for any time worked over and above eight (8) hours in any one (1) day, or after forty (40) hours in any week.
b)	The Corporation may utilize the reduction from a regular forty (40) hour work week to the guaranteed thirty-six (36) hour work week no more than once during a week (Monday to Friday).
c)	Hours lost under this clause will not affect the provisions under Clause 18.04.
Work performed on any Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate for the first six (6) hours and double the regular rate thereafter.
Employees required to work beyond the regular hours in any day shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate for the first two (2) hours of overtime, and double the regular rate thereafter.
Employees required to work overtime on Saturdays shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate for the first six (6) hours and double the regular rate thereafter.
Employees working any portion of fifteen (15) minutes over regular time will be guaranteed fifteen (15) minutes pay at time and one-half the regular rate.
21
18.06
18.07
18.08
18.09
18.10
18.11
18.12
18.13
Employees working any portion of fifteen (15) to thirty (30) minutes will be guaranteed thirty (30) minutes pay at time and one-half the regular rate. All overtime must be authorized and the employee time card initialled by the respective supervisor the same day that the overtime occurs.
No employees will be required to work more than two and one-half (2 1/2) hours without a coffee or lunch break. Overtime is included in the provisions of this clause.
Where the Corporation requests overtime be worked, such request shall be made on the previous day; when this is not done and the request is made on the date on which overtime is to be worked, employees working over ten (10) hours shall be paid a meal allowance of $8.00. The meal payment would be included in the following week's pay cheque.
Overtime will be offered in the following manner:
- by the job by seniority, then by seniority within that department; and if not enough employees volunteer, then offered by seniority to the remaining employees.
Two (2) paid rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each shall be granted for each work day of eight (8) hours.
The Corporation will grant the employees a five (5) minute period during which time they will clean up. This will be the last five (5) minutes of their shift.
WAGES
An employee is entitled to be paid for services rendered at the rate of pay specified in Article 19 attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement.
Payday shall be weekly and each employee shall be provided with an itemized statement of his wages and deductions, including total earnings to date and total income tax to date.
Any employee who at the time of the signing of this Agreement is receiving a higher rate or benefits than those specified shall not have his wage scale or benefits reduced. An employee's rate of pay as it was at the time of signing this agreement shall be increased by the negotiated increases in the rate of pay.
22
18.14
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
For the purpose of this clause, immediate family is defined as father, mother, stepfather, stepmother, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-inlaw, spouse, child, grandchild, or wards* of the employee; common-law spouse, common-law spouse’s mother, common-law spouse’s father, and common-law spouse’s children. For the purposes of this clause spouse and common law spouse shall also include a same sex partner.
a)	Where a member of their immediate family dies, an employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave for a period of up to four (4) consecutive working days. Where the bereavement leave is taken for death of a spouse or child the employee will be granted up to five (5) consecutive working days. In all cases the bereavement leave will include the day of the funeral. During such a period the employee shall be paid for those days which were not regularly scheduled days of rest for that employee.
b)	An employee is entitled to a special leave with pay of one (1) day, for the purposes of attending services in the event of the death of the employee's aunt, uncle, grandparent, son-in-law, daughter-inlaw, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, nieces and nephews, or a relative permanently residing in the employee's household or with whom the employee permanently resides or to attend services in which the employee is serving as an active pallbearer.
c)	It is recognized by the parties that the circumstances which call for leave in respect of bereavement are based on individual circumstances. On request, the Corporation may, after considering the particular circumstances involved, grant leave without pay for a period greater than that provided for in clause 18.14 (a) and (b).
d)	The Corporation may request some verification of the death and relationship to the employee or that the employee was acting as an active pallbearer before honouring any claim in questionable cases.
e)	Qualifier for bereavement benefits is a person who has passed their probationary period.
*For the purpose of this Article, "Ward" means a person who is without full legal capacity or is otherwise incapable of managing his own affairs, and whose person, property or rights are under the protection of another person known as a guardian.
23
18.15
JURY DUTY / WITNESS
18.16
18.17
Where an employee is called and serves as a juror or a witness, provided it is not in their own defence, the Corporation will make up the difference between their jury pay or witness fees and the employee's regular average hourly earnings for such periods of jury duty or time they serve as a witness as fall within the normal work day.
Where an employee is called for jury duty or as a witness other than in his own defence, and where he is not required to be present to fulfill such duties, the employee will report for work in the usual manner.
The term witness does not include employees subpoenaed as a witness by the Union.
EMERGENCY CALL-IN
a)	An employee who has left the premises of the Corporation after completion of the employee's scheduled shift and who is called for work, shall be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee's regular hourly rate for all hours worked on recall up to the starting time of their scheduled shift, but in any event, the employee shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee's regular hourly rate.
b)	An employee called in to work, as in 18.16 (a) above, on a Sunday, will be paid at one and one-half times the employee's regular hourly rate for the first six (6) hours and double the regular hourly rate thereafter, but in any event, the employee shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at one and one-half times the employee's regular hourly rate.
The Corporation will allow employees to bank $50.00 per week for 10 consecutive weeks, or a minimum of $100.00 per week up to a maximum of $1500.00. Employees may withdraw this money between November 1 and December 15, or at a time of layoff or recall or if granted a leave of absence by the Corporation that is not paid for to make up the difference in the pay period. These withdrawals are subject to the following:
a)	Employees must provide the Company with advanced written notice of at least 24 hours,
b)	The amount requested must be specified by the Employee in writing but cannot be less than $100.00,
c)	These monies will be included on the pay cheque issued the week following the request.
24
For the purposes of lay off these monies will not extend an employees service if withdrawn just prior to layoff.
Employees have to book their holiday weeks exclusive of the floater before a leave of absence may be granted.
ARTICLE 19 - JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
May 1, 2005 May 1,2006 May 1,2007 General Labour Rate	$16.66	$16.98	$17.33
New Employee Starting Rate	$ 9.00
The new employee starting rate shall increase $ .50 per hour for all hours worked after completion of 300 hours worked, and increase a further $ .50 per hour for each additional 300 hours worked until the employee reaches the plant General Labour Rate as described in Article 19 above.
All new employees returning on the next recall shall be credited with all hours worked since they last established seniority with the Corporation, to establish a basic wage rate for that employee.
The following classifications or premiums will only apply to actual hours worked:
Leadhand increment	$ .60
Freezer premium	.48
Hi-Reach operator	.05
Filleting machine operator	.20
Heading machine operator	.20
Scaling machine operator	.20
Spiral freezer operator	.20
Splitting machine operator	.20
Hand filleter	.39
Shipping and receiving	.22
Maintenance Department Maintenance Helper Maintenance Mechanic Industrial Mechanic
May 1,2005 May 1,2006
May 1, 2007
$18.06
$18.31
$20.46
$18.38
$19.13
$20.78
$18.73
$19.73
$21.13
25
May 1, 2005 May 1,2006 May 1, 2007
Maintenance Journeyman: Mechanic / Welder Mechanic / Machinist Mechanic / Electrical	$23.17	$23.49	$23.84
Electrician Journeyman	$24.42	$24.74	$25.09
Shift Premium:	3:30 pm to 12:00 midnight 10:30 pm to 7:00 am		.43 .65
SCHEDULE"B"
ARTICLE 20 - VACATION WITH PAY
20.01
20.02
20.03
The vacation period is from January 1st through December 31st.
The Corporation agrees to issue separate itemized cheques for employee's vacation pay. Before leaving for their vacation, employees shall be entitled to their vacation pay for the portion of their vacation period upon which they are embarking.
a)	Prior to the first day of February of each year, the Corporation shall post a listing of employees who are entitled to vacations during that year. This procedure is applicable to employees who are on layoff during this period of time.
b)	Within a period of one (1) month after this list has been posted, each employee will record his preferred period of vacation on the said list.
c)	On or before the 1st of April, the Corporation will review the vacation preferences requested by the employees. If production requirements so permit, each employee will be authorized to take his vacation by seniority, by shift, by department in accordance with his preference, and shall be so notified on or before the said date.
d)	If the Corporation does not authorize an employee to take their vacation during the employee's preference vacation period, such employee will be so notified before the 1st of April. The Corporation agrees to review with the Union the reasons why an employee's vacation preference was denied, if requested to do so. Second choice to be by way of seniority.
26
20.04
20.05
20.06
e)	It is agreed that the final decision regarding the authorization of an employee's vacation period remains with the Corporation. However, once an employee's vacation preference has been authorized, it will not be changed unless mutually agreed by the employee and the Corporation.
Vacations earned during the current vacation period must be taken during the vacation period immediately following that in which they are earned. Vacation periods can only be accumulated and carried over in special cases by mutual agreement between the Corporation and the employee.
If a statutory holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the vacation period shall be extended by one (1) working day.
Until January 1, 2004 the length of vacation is established by seniority with the Corporation as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, and will be as follows:
a)	An employee with less than one (1) complete year of seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, shall be entitled to one (1) day for each full month worked up to a maximum of ten (10) working days. Vacation pay shall be calculated at four percent (4%) of their total earnings.
b)	An employee with more than one (1) complete year of seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at four percent (4%) of their total earnings.
c)	An employee with more than two (2) complete years of seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at six percent (6%) of their total earnings.
d)	An employee with more than nine (9) complete years of seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at eight percent (8%) of their total earnings.
e)	An employee with more than fourteen (14) complete years of seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, shall be entitled to five (5) weeks of vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at ten percent (10%) of their total earnings.
27
20.07
20.08 20.09
f)	Employees with more than twenty one (21) complete years of
seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at twelve percent (12%) of their total earnings.
As of January 1, 2004 an employee’s length of vacation is based on the employee’s seniority on the employee’s individual anniversary date with the Corporation in the year in which the vacation is to be taken, and will be as follows:
a)	An employee with more than one (1) complete year of seniority as calculated above shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at four percent (4%) of their total earnings.
b)	An employee with more than two (2) complete years of seniority as calculated above shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at six percent (6%) of their total earnings.
c)	An employee with more than nine (9) complete years of seniority as calculated above shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at eight percent (8%) of their total earnings.
d)	An employee with more than fourteen (14) complete years of seniority as calculated above shall be entitled to five (5) weeks of vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at ten percent (10%) of their total earnings.
e)	Employees with more than twenty one (21) complete years of seniority as calculated above shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation. Vacation pay shall be calculated at twelve percent (12%) of their total earnings.
Should an employee who is entitled to holidays resign having given due legal notice or be discharged, said employee shall receive pay in lieu of holidays at the applicable rates outlined in 20.06.
An employee's vacation time will be included in his length of qualifying service.
Payment of wages in lieu of vacation is not permitted.
28
20.10
20.11
ARTICLE 21
21.01
21.02
21.03
If death occurs in the immediate family of an employee while the employee is on vacation, the vacation leave will be extended at the request of the employee, by the length of the bereavement entitlement.
Employees with more than three (3) weeks vacation entitlement can split two (2) weeks of vacation subject to operational requirements. To assist the Corporation in determining its operational requirements the request for this vacation must be submitted in writing 24 hours prior to the day being requested, and will be considered in the order received. However, if the Corporation asks employees if they want to use split vacation time or should the employee choose to split and use vacation time as a result of the Corporation reducing the work week to 36 hours, the requirement of the request being made 24 hours in advance does not apply.
SCHEDULE"C"
- STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
All employees shall be entitled to and shall be granted a holiday with pay on each of the general holidays listed below, and all other holidays proclaimed by the Government of Canada or the Government of the Province of Manitoba, if the employee has worked and received wages for fifteen (15) out of the last thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the general holiday. Employees shall be paid the amount of wages they would have normally earned during their regular shift, including premiums, without being required to render services for the following general holidays:
New Year's Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Canada Day Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday Civic Holiday Remembrance Day Victoria Day Labour Day
An employee is not entitled to be paid for a statutory holiday on which he does not work when he is not entitled to wages for at least fifteen (15) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday, unless absent with the permission of the Corporation in respect of absences relating to certified illness, illness in the employee's family necessitating the employee's absence from work, death in the employee's family, jury duty or non-compensable injury.
If an employee works on any of the above-named paid statutory holidays, they will receive payment at the rate of time and one-half for the first six (6) hours worked and double time thereafter.
29
21.04
21.05
21.06
ARTICLE 22
22.01
ARTICLE 23
23.01
If a holiday as set forth in Clause 21.01 falls on a day which is not a regular working day, the first working day preceding the holiday or the first working day thereafter shall be considered the holiday.
Where a holiday as set out in Clause 21.01 falls during the period of an employee's vacation, the period of vacation shall be lengthened by one (1) working day.
In a week in which a statutory holiday occurs, the regular hours per week will be reduced by one-fifth for each holiday therein.
SCHEDULE"D"
- BENEFIT PROGRAM
a)	All employees who are on the Corporation's seniority list, and who remain on the seniority list, are initially eligible for coverage in the benefit program listed below.
b)	New employees are initially eligible for coverage in the benefit program listed below when the Corporation records show that the employee has worked sufficient hours to qualify for the General Labour rate as described in Article 19.
c)	Employees are not entitled to any benefits under Schedule D other than the Pension Plan as described in Article 23 until they reach the General Labour Rate as described in Article 19. There is an obligation upon the employee to complete all eligibility requirements of the insurer and maintain the same with the insurer in order to be eligible for, and the maintenance of, the benefits available under the provisions of the Collective Agreement.
- PENSION PLAN
a)	The Superannuation Plan as outlined by the Public Service Superannuation Act which was placed into effect by the Corporation on behalf of the employees on April 1st, 1973 is to continue.
b)	The Corporation agrees to supply all employees covered by the above Public Service Superannuation Act, once yearly before February 15th, a written statement showing the status of their plan as of December 31st of the previous year.
30
c)	Once an employee has been employed for six (6) months, they will automatically be enrolled into the Superannuation Plan. If the Government of Canada changes the qualifier, the Corporation will contribute four percent (4%) of regular wages to an individual RRSP which will be administered by the RW Pension Plan.
ARTICLE 24 - SICKNESS AND DISABILITY
24.01
24.02
a)	No employee shall be discharged because of sickness or disability resulting from accident sustained while performing Corporation duties. On returning to work, the employee shall receive their former position provided such employee is not adjudged incapable of performing their former duties, in which case the Corporation will endeavour to find suitable work.
b)	An employee shall accumulate sick leave credits at the rate of one and one-quarter (1 1/4) days per month for each month of continuous employment, cumulative to a maximum of one-hundred (100) days.
c)	Where an employee works fifty percent (50%) or more of normal straight time hours in any month they shall receive sick leave credits for that month on a pro rata basis rounded to the nearest one-quarter (1/4).
An employee shall be granted sick leave with pay when unable to perform
duties because of illness or injury provided:
a)	that the Corporation is satisfied that the employee's condition prevents them from carrying out their duties;
b)	that the employee has the necessary sick leave credits;
c)	that a medical certificate is presented to the Corporation, at their request, when an individual's absence because of sickness exceeds three (3) working days. Notwithstanding the foregoing the Corporation reserves the right to request a medical certificate in respect of any absence in order to be properly satisfied that the employee's condition prevents them from carrying out their duties. The Corporation undertakes to utilize this provision with reasonable discretion;
d)	If an employee becomes ill and cannot report for work, a message must be left on the Corporation's sick phone ((204) 983-6606) or their supervisor must be contacted no later than the normal starting
31
time of their shift. Upon return to duty the employee is required to report to their immediate supervisor.
24.03
24.04
Employees off work for more than one day and under doctor’s care must inform the Corporation and will not be required to call on a daily basis.
e)	Payment shall be made as follows:
i)	three hundred (300) hours or more of accumulated sick leave
credits:
-	100% of regular wages for all days sick up to the maximum of the employee’s accumulated sick leave credits
ii)	two hundred (200) hours or more of accumulated sick leave
credits:
-	75% of regular wages for first day sick
-100% of regular wages thereafter to the maximum of the employee's accumulated sick leave credits;
iii)	less than two hundred (200) hours of accumulated sick leave
credits:
1.	no pay for the first three days;
2.	100% of regular wages thereafter to the maximum of the employee's accumulated sick leave credits;
iv)	the employee must complete the necessary forms requesting
payment (see attached)
In cases of suspected abuse of absences the Corporation may require an employee to take a medical examination. In such cases the Corporation shall notify the union in advance of its intention to require the employee to take a medical examination by a physician other than the employee’s own physician and the Corporation will absorb the cost for such medical examination.
a) Any employee who is injured on the job and is sent from the Plant for medical care, will be paid for the time lost for such treatment during the shift in which the injury occurred, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours.
32
b)	If any employee is unable to perform the work and is instructed not to return to work after treatment, he will be paid for the balance of the shift not worked, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours.
c)	Should an employee be injured while working overtime, so seriously as to require immediate medical attention, the employee shall receive payment at the applicable rate for the remaining hours of overtime which would have been worked in the department where the injury occurred.
d)	When any employee is injured at work so seriously as to require transportation, the Corporation agrees to provide or pay the cost of transportation on the day injury occurs, between the Plant, hospital, and home.
ARTICLE 25 - LIFE INSURANCE PLAN
25.01	Effective from the ratification date of this Agreement all eligible employees
with less than six (6) years seniority will be covered for $20,000 life insurance; employees with more than six (6) years seniority will be covered for $50,000 life insurance. The Corporation shall pay the premiums.
ARTICLE 26 - DENTAL PLAN
26.01	Effective October 1, 1990 all eligible employees shall be covered by a
dental plan. Coverage will be in effect for the entire year, including layoffs.
COVERAGE: Routine 100%
Major 50%
Annual maximum is $1100 per person for combined routine and major. Deductible is $25.00 single and $50.00 family coverage.
The Corporation shall pay for the full cost of single coverage and will pay the cost of the family plan other than $15.00 per month which will be deducted from the employees in the family plan.
ARTICLE 27 - EXTENDED HEALTHCARE
27.01	Effective January 1, 1991 all eligible employees will be covered for
extended healthcare benefits listed below. The Corporation will pay the premium for the single coverage. Employees who choose the family
33
coverage will be required to pay the difference in premium costs between single and family coverage.
75% Prescription drugs
100% Semi-private hospital care and ambulance Deductible will be $10.00 for single and $25.00 for family.
a)	The Corporation will provide two hundred dollars ($200.00) every two years towards the cost of prescription eyewear for each employee.
b)	The Corporation will provide orthopaedic care to a maximum of $100.00 in every calendar year for each employee who is at the General Labour Rate.
ARTICLE 28 - POST RETIREMENT HEALTHCARE COVERAGE
28.01	The Corporation will make available a post retirement healthcare plan as
follows:
a)	Dental - 80% routine
- 80% major
Maximum coverage $500.00 per person per year.
b)	Prescription drugs ambulance, semi-private hospital room.
All premiums will be paid by the retiree.
ARTICLE 29 - TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT
29.01	The Corporation and the Union agree that this Agreement shall be
effective from May 1, 2005 onto April 30, 2008 and thereafter from year to year unless written notice of intent to amend or terminate the Agreement is given by either party to the other party not more than sixty (60) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of any yearly period. Upon receipt of the Union's or the Corporation's amendments, the other party shall within five (5) days of receipt of said amendments commence collective bargaining with a view to the renewal or revision of this Agreement, or conclusion of a new collective labour agreement.
34
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have cause this Agreement to be executed this __________day of January, 2006.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION:
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE CORPORATION:
B. Prozyk
R. Hand
S. Schulz
S. Kendall
R. Giles
A. MacLeod
D. Whitehill
G. Kostiuk
G. Fricker
35
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SEVERANCE PAY
1.	In the event of termination, except in the case of termination for just cause, employees who have worked for the Corporation for twelve (12) consecutive months shall be entitled to severance pay, payable upon the termination of their employment, and calculated pursuant to the provisions hereof.
2.	Severance pay pursuant to this Article shall be calculated as follows:
The employee who has completed twelve (12) or more consecutive months of employment, shall be paid the greater of:
a)	one week's pay at the employee's regular hourly rate, or
b)	four days' pay at the employee's regular hourly rate for each year of completed employment.
The continuity of employment shall include layoff and/or any authorized leave of absence. For the purposes of this Letter of Understanding a layoff does not constitute a termination until the employee’s recall rights set out in 11.02(d) have expired. When the employee’s recall rights have expired while on a layoff, the layoff shall become a termination and the employee shall be eligible to receive severance pay as set out above.
Agreed on the 10h day of November 2005.
36
November 10, 2005
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING SICK AND DISABILITY REQUEST FOR PAYMENT
NAME:
EMP.NO:
I,
was absent from work from
_________________________________to__________________________________
due to illness, rendering me unable to perform my regular duties.
DOCTOR'S CERTIFICATE ATTACHED: _____________YES ____________NO
I request payment under the sick and disability plan: __YES _________NO
Employee Signature
Date
Authorized by	Date
NOTE:	Making false statements requesting payment may result in dismissal.
Agreed to November 10, 2005.
37
November 10, 2005
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - OVERTIME
To assist the Corporation with meeting its production requirements during peak periods any overtime will first be offered on a volunteer basis by seniority in accordance with Article 18.08. In the event that the Corporation cannot fill its overtime requirements on a voluntary basis, the Corporation shall have the right to require up to the most junior 25% of employees in the plant on the shift experiencing the need who did not volunteer or are not available, to work overtime. However the use of this mandatory overtime provision shall not be used in conjunction with the voluntary overtime to exceed a maximum of 60% of employees by shift working in the Plant.
If the Corporation still cannot meet its overtime requirement it may at its own discretion choose to cancel the overtime it has assigned prior to the commencement of the overtime without any penalty.
For the purposes of this Letter of Understanding only the "most junior employee” shall include employees who are on probation as well as employees who have acquired seniority under the Collective Agreement.
The provisions of this Letter of Understanding do not apply to employees in the Maintenance classification.
This Letter of Understanding shall be in effect from the date of ratification of the Collective Agreement until April 30, 2008 and shall be renewed thereafter by the parties on an annual basis, on every April 30 unless one of the parties notifies the other party in writing at least 2 weeks prior to April 30, that they do not wish to renew this letter.
Agreed to November 10, 2005.
38
November 10, 2005
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SUPERANNUATION AGREEMENT
The parties agree to establish a joint committee to review the current superannuation plan, and any legal alternatives to this plan and to make any joint recommendations that they see fit on how to change or modify the current retirement plan. These recommendations shall be made by December 31, 2003 unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the parties and shall be made to the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for presentation to the Board of the Corporation.
Agreed to November 10, 2005.
39
November 10, 2005
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - MAINTENANCE
Employees hired onto the Maintenance Department will work at fifty cents ($0.50) less than the classified rates until they attain one year’s plant service.
Agreed on the 10th day of November 2005.
40
November 10, 2005
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - JOINT LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Corporation and the Union have agreed to form a join labour-management committee. The primary purpose of the committee will be to make recommendations to the management of the Corporation.
The primary objectives of the committee will be to:
•	Deal with changes in the industry that impact the workplace.
•	Create efficiencies and eliminate waste in processing to ensure that as much product as possible is processed at the Winnipeg Plant.
•	Increase returns to fishers in order to maintain and increase deliveries, which will result in economic benefit to employees.
• Facilitate improved communication and provide for dialogue and input from affected employees prior to recommendations being made that affect the Winnipeg Plant.
•	Increase the size of the workforce employed twelve months a year, as well as retain experienced employees.
•	Retain current work and add new work as a viable alternative to outsourcing.
The committee shall be structured and function as follows:
•	The committee will be comprised of six (6) employees of the Corporation. Three (3) will be appointed by the Union and three (3) will be appointed by the Corporation. The Union’s appointees shall consist of the Local President, the Chief Steward and one other appointee of their choice.
•	The Corporation will pay wages and benefits of employees attending committee meetings.
•	Guests may be invited to attend meetings from time to time upon the invitation of either the Union or the Corporation. Any costs involved with the attendance of the guests at committee meetings who are not employees shall be entirely paid by the party at whose invitation the guest attends.
•	The committee will determine its own processes and meeting schedule. Notwithstanding this, the first meeting shall take place within 30 days of the ratification of the Collective Agreement.
•	Unless agreed otherwise by the committee, all discussions occurring at committee meetings shall be held in strictest confidence.
•	The committee will discuss and agree on what information is necessary to make recommendations it wishes to present to the Corporation. The Corporation will provide this information subject to the provisions of the Access to Information Act or any other applicable statute.
•	Unless otherwise specified, this Letter of Understanding does not in any way, nor is it intended to, amend, diminish or restrict the rights and obligations of the Union or Management as outlined in the Collective Agreement.
Agreed on the 10th day of November 2005.
41
November 10, 2005
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING PROCESSING OF PICKEREL/SAUGER
The Corporation agrees that it will ensure that all pickerel / sauger purchased by the Corporation will be processed at the Plessis Road Facility subject to the following:
While this Letter of Understanding is intended to provide job security for the employees of the Corporation, should the Corporation determine that pickerel is to be processed at Regional Processing Facilities established in accordance with the Regional Processing Policy established and adopted by the FFMC Board of Directors in 2001 (a copy of which has been provided to the Union), this Letter of Understanding will not prohibit it from doing so. As well, the Corporation will continue to sell unprocessed pickerel to its established markets for these products, which will not be processed and sold under any FFMC brand.
This Letter of Understanding is in effect for the life of this Collective Agreement.
42
November 10, 2005
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND & LOCAL 561 SOCIAL COMMITTEE FUND
On April 15th of each year the Corporation will pay the following amounts:
i)	$1000.00 to the CAW SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND, mailed to:
205 Placer Court North York Willowdale, Ontario M2H 3H9
ii)	$2000.00 to the CAW Local 561 Social Committee Fund, mailed to:
Box 123
1376 Grant Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3M 3Y4
43