8SJJLQLE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
SUBJECT
feesuusfrrg <■ Fish	• Ce>eP .
PSAC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
mc e				
EFF.			(TSL	73
TERM.	fa		t>L	
No. OF EMPLOYEES				
NOMBRE ,				
Purpose of Agreement Def in it ions Recogn i t i on Managernen t Func t ions Discrimination Check-off
Inforinat ion for Employees Use of Corporate Fac i 1 i t i es Seniority
Prcnnot ion and Staf f Changes Layoffs and Reca I Is Appo i ntmerit of Stewards Gr ievance Procedures Arbitration
Discharge and Suspens i on Hours Of Work Overt i me Standby Cal l-back Sick leave Injury on Duty L eave of Absence Bereavement Leave Court L eave
Leave far Birth of Child Paid Ho I i days Vacation Leave Pay
Sh i f t Prem i um Clothing
Str i kes and Lock-outs
Other
Duration
2
2
3
3
3
3
4
4
5
6 6 6 7 9
10
10
13
14 14
14
15
15
16 16 17
17
18 20 20 20 21
Appendix "A" - Rates of Pay
25
Page
ARTICLE.!
EyBPQSE.Of.AGREEMENT
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain harmonious and mutually b e n e f i c i a I r e I a t i o n s h i p between the Corporation,.,, the emp I oyees and the A I I iance, to set forth certain terms and condlt ions of einp I oymen t re I at i ng t o renumeration, hours of work, employee benef its and genera I working conditions affect i ng emp I oyees covered by this Agreement and to ensure that a I I reasonab I e measures are provided for the safety and occupational heal th of the employees.
1.02	Tofaci I itatethe peaceful adjustment of al I disputes and grievances; to prevent strikes, I oc.kouts, waste, expenses, avoidable and unnecessary de I ays.
1.03	The parties to this agreement desire that methods of bargaining and a I I matters pertaining to the working conditions of the
emp ! oyees be drawn up in an Agreement now, therefore , the parties agree as follows:
OFEINIILQNS-
2.01	For the purpose of this Agreement
(a)	"A I liance" means the Pub I ic Service Al liance of Canada;
(b)	"Barga i ningUn it " means the employees of the Fmp I oyer described in Article 3:
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
"Corporat i on" means the Freshwater Fish MArket i ng Corporat i on ;
i lyrate of pay" means an employee's hourly rate of pay multiplied by eight;
"Fmployee" means a. person who is a member of the bargain i ng unit;
"Hourly rate of pay" means the rate of pay specified in Appendix "A" app I i cab I e to the emp I oyee's c I ass i f i cat Ion ;
"lay-off" means an employee whose emp I oymen t has been terminated because of a I ackof work and/or because of the d i scon t I nuance of a func t i on ;
( h)
"Membersh i p dues “ means the dues establ ished pursuant to the constitution of the Al I iance as the dues payab I e by its members as a consequence of the i r membersh ip in the A I I iance, and sha I I not include any initiationfee, insurance premium, or spec, i a I levy.
Page
3.01
U .01
5.01
6.01
3
ABIICLE_3
RECOGNITION
The Corporation recognizes the Al I iance as the so le arid exclusive bargaining agent for al I employees described by the Cert i c i cate of Cert i f i cat ion issued bythe Canada Labou r
Re I a t i ons Board dated February 22nd, 1973.
article^
t!ANj£i£EN£NI_FyN£IIQNS
The management and operat ion of the bus inessi nc I udingthe employment, direction, promo tion, transfer, layoff, and suspensi on, discharge, or other discipline of employees for just cause, shall be vested solely in the management of the Corporation. The management in the exercise of these management rights shall do so in a reasonable manner cons istent with the express provisions of this Agreement.
AR-TJCLE. 5
Q1£C8LMIN£ILQN
The Corporation and the Al i isnce agree that there shall be no discrimination, interference, restr i c t ion or coerc ion exerc i sed or practised by either party to this Agreement with repect to any employee by reason of age, sex, race, creed, co lor, national origin, politicalor religious af-fi Nation, nor in respect of membershipor act iv i ty in the Al I iance.
ART TCIE A
Amend t o read as f o I I ows :
AI I employees within the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement wi I I be required to pay to the Al I lance (through payro I I d ed u ct i o n) a sum of money equlvalentto the membership due of the Al liance. The foregoing wil I not apply, however, to:
employees during their initial probationary period:
( i i )
6.0?
6.0?>
6.04
6. OB
7.01
8.01
Page 4
the erap I oyee who sat isfiesthe Corporation to the extent that he declares in an affidavit that his religious convictions wi I I be violated by such 2 contribution to an employee organization and that he wi i ! make contributions to a charitable organ i zat ion equa I to dues.
New emp I oyees sha I i , as a. cond i t ion of emp I oymen t, be or become members of the Ail iance upon completion of their initial probationary period, and shall, as a condition of employment, maintai n the ir membersh ip thereafter.
The Corporation shall, upon receipt of written authorization and s ignedby the employee, and so I ongas such author i tat ion rema ins in force,deduct the month lyAI I iance dues. The Al I ianceshall inform the Corporation in writing of the authorized monthly deduct ion to be checked off for each employee defined in Clause 6. 01.
The Corporation shallremit monthly to the Alliance the sum as deducted in accordance with Clause 6.01 after deductions are made and shal I be accompanied by particulars identifying each employee and the deductions made on his behalf.
The Al liance agrees to indemnify and save the Corporat ion harmless against any claim or I i a b i I i t y a r i s i n g out of the app I i cat ion of this art i I ce exceptfor any claim or I lability arising out of an error committed by the Corporation in connect ion with the deduct ion of the amount equal to the month I y membersh i p dues .
ARIIQL£_I
INFOQMAl10N_EQR_FMPLQYFES
The Corporat i an agrees to supp I y each emp I oyee who is a member in this bargaining unit with a copy ofthe Collective Agreement. The Al I iance agrees to pay one-halfthe printing cost.
AQIICLF_8
U S F	ZC i l £££ s
If an a u t h o r i z e d Alliance Representative who is not employed by the Corporation desires to speak to local Alliance representatives in the Plant about z gr i e van ce , or o t h e r official Alliance business, he shall obtain approval of the Plant Manager , As s i s t a n t Plant Manager, or their designated representative who shall then call the local Alliance r e p r e s e n t a t i ve ( s ) t o the office where they mayconfer privately. These discussions will be arranged so that they wi I I not i n t er f er e w i t h production. Permission shal I not be unreasonab I y wi the Id.
Page
5
8,02	Reasonable space and bu I I et in boards wi I I be made avai I ah le to
the Al I iancs Cor the posting of official notices, inconvenient I ocat ions determined by the Corporation. Notices or other material shal I require the prior approval of the Corporati on and shall be signed and dated by a Corporation official , except notices of meetings of their members, elections, the names of the Alliance representatives, and social and recreational events. The Corporation sha I I have the right to refuse the posting of any information which it cons i ders adverse to its interests or to the interests of any of its representatives.
ARTICLE-9
SFNLORL-IY
9.01
9.0?
9.03
9.04
(a)
<b)
(c)
(d)
9.05
For the purpose of seniority, length of active service as shown on the Corporation’s records shal I be the determining factor,
The Corporation shall maintain a seniority I ist showing the date upon which each employee’s service commenced. An up-to- date seniority I ist shal I be sent to the Al I iance and posted on all bulletin boards in January of each year.
A new emp I oyee wi I I be cons i dered on pro bat ion unt i I he has worked a total of ninety (9Q)ski ftsfor the Corporation. On orbefore the completion of sixty (60 shifts) of the probat ionary per i odthe Corpoartion sha I I advise the probafi onaryemp I oyee of any concerns the Corpora t ion may have relat ingto the emp I oyee's work, During this Probationary period the employee shall be entitled to al! rights and privileges of th is agreement, exceptthat an employee discharged shallhave no right to grievance procedure in respect of such discharge. After- comp I et ion of the probationary period, seniority sha! I be effective from the original date of employment.
The seniority of any employee shal Ibe considered broken, al I rights forfeited and there shal I be no obligation to t-e-hire, when an empIoyee
voluntarily leaves the service of the Corporation, or is dismissed;
failst o return to work within three days after being called or notified by registered letter to his last given address on Corporation records ;
is absent from work forfive consecutive working days without notifying the Corporation, i n which case the emp I oyee sha I I be cons i dered to have resigned voluntarily;
has been laid off for more than six consecutive months.
An emp I oyee who is transferred or proinoted to a position outside of the barga ingun it sha I I continueto accrue senior i ty within the bargaining unit for a period of 60shifts.
Page
AR.TUd.5.10
PRP_M0TI0J1S_J\_ND STAFF. CHAIffG^S
A
10.01
10.02
11.01
A I I permanent job vacanc ies or new I y created jobs sha i i , wi th in two (2) work ingdays of such permanent job vacancy or newly created job becoming available, be posted on the plant bulletin board for three (3) working days. During this t i me emp I oyees who have completed the probationary period of employment may make app I i ca 11 on f o r transfer to such jobs. Seniority and abi I itywi I I be the deciding factors.
In cases of promotion requiring higher q u a I i f i c a t i o n s o r certification, the Corporation shall give cons i deration to an emp loyeewho does not possess the requiredqualifications, but is prepar i ng for qua I i f i cat ion pr ior to f i I I ing of a vacancy. Such employees wi I I be given an opportunity to qualify within a reasonable leright Of tiille,
ARILQLE-LL
LAVQLES-ANfi.REGALLS
LAYOFF _ANQ-RECALL-PRQCEDURF
Roth parties recognizethatjob security should increase in proportion to the length of service. The Corporation agrees that employees withgreater I engthof service shal I have preference in connection with layoffs and recalls insofar as it is in practicable to do so, provided that their other qualifications relative to the position are equal,
11.02	Ng_New_FtD£i2Y.S.ss
No new emp loyeeswi II be hired while there are available employees laid off who are in the opinion of the Corporation qualif iedto perform the work.
11.03	Noii£e_ o f _j_ay-of f
Notice of lay-off shall be given in accordance with provi sions of the Canada 1 abour Code.
ARIIQLE-L2
APPQ!NIMFNI_C\ P_^TFi/IAP,aS
12.01	The Corporation acknowledges the right of the Al I ianceto appo i n t emp ! oyees as stewards .
12.02	The Al I iance shal I notify the Corporation promptly and in
wr i t i ng o f the names of its s tewards .
Page
7
12.OS' Union officers and committee members shall be entitled to leave their workstation during working hours in order to carry out their functions under this Agreement, including but not I imited to, the investigation and process ing of gr i evances, at tendance at meetings with the employer and/or the Union representative. Pet-m ission to leave their work stat ion during working hours for such purposes shal I first be obtained from their immediate supervisor. Such permission shal I not be unreasonably witheld.
ABIICLE_13 SSJEVANCE,PROCEDURE
13.01	The Gr ievance form at Appendix"B " is to be used f o r the
presentat ion of gr i evances , but no grievance sha II be deemed to be i nva I id so ! e I y because it is not presented on the proper form.
13.02	When a period of time is expressed as a number of days, that number of days sha I I not i nc I ude non-work i ng days .
13.03	The time limits presented in this Article may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
13.04	An etnp I oyeewho presents a. complaint or grievance at either stage may, if he so desires, be assisted or represented by the
Al I i a n c e .
13 .OS A grievance nay be rpesentedby an employee on h is own behalf or on behalf of himself and one or more other employees.
COMPLAINTS
13.0 A	An employee sha. II have the right to discuss and settle with the
supervisor of his department any complaint he may have. Such discussion shal! take place within 48 hours of the date when he f i rs t became aware of 'the circumstances giving rise to the complaint.
13.07	In the event that the superv I sor f a i I s t o satisfactory resolve the complaint within forty-eight (48) hours of
not i f i cat ion, the emp I oyee may refer the matter to the PI ant Manager, Assistant Plant Manager, or their designated representative.
13.08	The P I ant Manager, Assistant Plant Manager, or their designated representative, may resolve the complaint within forty-eight (48) hours of presentation, or failingthis, the complaint may be submitted in writing as a formal grievance in the prescribed f orm.
Page
8
S8iEVANCES
13.09 fin employee who fee Is.him self to be aggrieved shall have the right to present a formal written grievance in keeping with the f o I I ow i ng procedure :
3IASE_i
An employee may present his grievance to the Plant Manager, Assistant P ! ant Manager, o r the i r des i gnated represen ta± i ve, , w,, i th in 10 clays of the date on which he first became aware of the action or c i rcumstances giving rise to the grievance.
The grievance shall state the nature of the grievance, and the redress sought.
The Plant Manager, Assistant Plant Manager, or their designated representative, shall reply to the grievance, in writing,within 10 days of its presentat ion .
STAGE.2
Fail ing satisfactory settlement at Stage I, an employee may present his grievance to the President of the Corporation or his delegate, within lOdays (It the date on which he received a reolyat Stage 1.
In order to proceed to Stage 2, the employee sha I I have the support of, and be represented by the Ail iance.
The President of the Corporation orhisdelegate s'nallreplytothe grievance in writing within lOdays of its presentation at Stage 2.
Where the Corporation d isc barges an employee, the grievance procedure set forth in 13.09 shall apply except that:
the grievance shall he presented at Stage 2 onlyand within 25 days from the date of discharge:
the 10-day time I i m i t within which the President of the Cor porat ion or his delegate is to rep ly is extended to 25 days .
Fail ing a satisfactory settlement being reached in Stage 2, the Al Nance may on giving five (3) days noticeto the Corporation of its intent ion, refer the matter to arbitration.
POLICY JBRFIVANCE
IS.12 In the case of a dispute involving a quest ion of general
application o r interpretat ion, or where a group of employees ot the All iance has a grievance, the Al I lance shall have the right to file in writing a group or policy grievance. In such a case the procedure sha I I commence at Stage 2, of Clause 13,09.
13.10 ( i )
( i i )
13.11
Page 9
13.1	3 The Corporation sha'ihave the right to istitutea grievance
in respect of nay violation of this Agreement and the grievance shall be served on the Pres i dent or chiefsteward of the Al Man c. e,with a copy b y registered mailto the A I Nance. In such case, the procedure 3ha II commence at Stage 2 of c lause 13.09.
&BILCLJE-1.4
ARBITRATION
U . 01 COMPOSII
When e i therparty requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, the request sha i I be made by registered ma i I addressed to the other partyof the Agreement, indicating the name of its nominee on an Arbitration Board. Within five (5) days thereafter the other party shal I answer by registered mail i n d i cat i n g t h a name and address of its appointee to the Arbitration Board. The two arbi trators shal I then m e e t to select an impart I a I chairman,
U.02	EAII_U3E_IO_APPOLNI
If the recipientof the notice failsto appoint an arbitrator, or if the two appointees f a I I to agree upon a chairman within seven (7) days of appointment, the a p po i n t m e n t s ha II be made b y theMinister of Labour, upon the request of e i ther party.
U . 03	BQARQ_PROCEQURFS
The Board may determine its own procedure, but sha I I g i v e full opportunity to al i parties to present evidence and make representat ion to i t. It shall hear and determine the difference or al legation and render a dec is ion within ten < 10) days from the time thechai rman is appointed.
1A.CU	DECISJONS_OE_IHE_BDARD
The decision of the majority shall be the decision of the Board. Where there is no majority decision, the decision of the chairman shall be the decision of the Board. The decision of the Board of Arbitration shal Ibe final and binding and enforceable on al I parties, but in noevent shal I the Board of Arbitration have the power to change this Agreement or to alter, modify or amend any of its provisions. However, the Board shall have the power to dispose of any discharge or a discipline grievance by any arrangement which in its opinion it deems just and equitabl e.
14.05	0 J_SAGSEEMENI_ON QECISON
Should the parties disagree as to tu« meaning of the decision, either party may applyto the Chairman of the Boardof Arb i trat ion to reconvene the Board to clarifythe decision, which it sha I ido within <3)days.
14.06	£ £ 2 E NS£ S _£ F _ I H_E_ _S 0_ARD
Each party shall pay:
(1)	the fees and expenses of the arbitratorit appoints.
(2)	one-half the fees and expenses of the cnai rman
1A . 07 AMFNDING OF TI.MF LIMITS
The time limits fixed on both the grievance and arbitration procedure may be extended by consent of the parties to this Agreement,
14 .08 WITNESSES
At 8 n y s t a g e o f the grievance or arbitration procedure, the pat-t i es may have the ass is tance of the emp I oyee (s ) concerned as witnesses) and any other- witnesses and a I ! reasonable arrangements wi I I b e made to permit the conferring parties or the arbitrator(s) to have access to the Co rporation'sp remises to v iewany work i n g condi ti onswhich may be re I e van t to the sett I ement of the gr ievance.
ARTICLE 15
D I SCHARilF AMI SllSSfRlITLAON
15.01	An emp i oyee who has coin? I eted h is in i t i a I probat i onary per iod of ninety (90) shifts may be dismissed for just cause and on |y upon the authority of the Corporation. When an employee is discharged or suspended, he sha. I I be given the reason for such d ischargeor suspension in the presence of the Steward.
ariici_p_16
HOURS OF WORK
16.01	Al I emp i oyees covered by this agreementsha II be guaranteed a forty (40) hour work week based on five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days. The guarantee set out in (a) above shall not applyto employees engaged for work on a short term basis un less
an employee hi red on a short term basis works a c ummu I a t i ve total Of One hundred and twenty (120) ski fts(the totalto include the probat ionary period) . When such an emp I oyee has wOrked the one hundred arid twenty (120) shifts aforementioned the guaran tee rSerred to in sub-paragra. gh (a) a 5 o v e should apply thereafter.
16«0i
16:03
(a )
(b)
( c )
(d)
(e)
16:04
(A)
Page 11
Employees, withthe approval of the employer, may complete the i rweek i y hours ofemp loyment in a periodother than the five (5) f u I I days provided that over a sixteen ( 16) w e e k per i od emp I oyees work an average of forty (40) hours per week. In every such period employees s h a I I be granted days of rest on days not schedu I ed as norma Iwork days for them.
The Corporation and the All lance may jointly devise and decide on a inutually acceptable work schedule programwhich shall incl udea specif isd number of consecut ive ca I ender days of work •followed by 5 spec i tied number of earned days of rest. The s c h e d u I e d h o u rs of work on any day, as set forth in such a work schedule, may exceed e ight (8) hours per day; starting and qu i t t i ng t imes sha I I be determi ned according to operat i ona I requ irements, arid the norma I daily hours of work shall be consecutive.
For the purposeo f t h e t we ' vpi 2 ) hour shift.
"Daily Rate of Pay" means an employee's hourly rate of pay multiplied by twelve.
All work performed:
(a)	in excess or outs ide o f the schedu I ed hours o f work On a scheduled working day; or
(b)	on any of the emp i oyees’ scheduled days of rest;
The 1 st and 3rd days of rest will he considered as the first
scheduled d a y s of rest.
The 2nd and 4th days of rest will be considered as the second scheduled days of rest.
shal I he compensated in accordance with the overtime provisions of the Co I I ect i ve Agreement,
"Overtime" means work performed by an employee in excess or outside of hisscheduled 12 hours of workor in excess of 40 hours per w eek averaged over the 16 week rotating work
schedu i e.
Overt ime Rate: Fmp I oyees requ i red to work overt ime in any day sha I I be enti t ledto double t ime comoensat ion.
SLCK J_FAVF_ANQ_VACAII0NJ_F(AVF_CRFQIXS_-_12_H0UR_§rjLEIS
Fmpl oyees sha I learn sick leave credits at the rate prescribed in the Co I I ec t i ve Agreement but sha i I be converted to hours by mu t t i p ly ing the number of days by e i ght (8) hours, and one ( 1) week equal s forty (40) hours. Leave wiil begrantedonan hourly basis with the hours deb i ted fore a. ch day of sick leave or vacation I save bei ng the same a s the hours the employee would have been sc hedu I ed t o workon that day.
Page 12
(2)
(b)
16,05
16.06
16.07
16.08
16.09
16.10
££K_EOfl_.QESlGldAIED_fiAID_HaLiDAYJ3L=_12_HQUB_SdIEIS
When an employee works on a Des ignated Paid Ho I iday, he sha I I be cOlnaensated in addition to the eight (8) hours' hoi iday pay he would have been granted had he not worked, at the rate of time and one-ha f (11/21 for a I ischedu led hours worked and double (2) time for al Ihours worked in excess of the scheduled hour
OR
When an employee works on a ho ! i day , wh i chis not his scheduled day of work, cont iguous t o a day o f rest on which he also worked and received overt i me in accordance with clause 17:04 or 17:05 of the Collective Agreement, he shall be paid in addition tO the eight (8) hours holiday pay he would have been granted had he not worked on tile holiday, two (2) times his hourly rate of pay for al! time worked.
In respect of those employees who, because of the nature of their duties, work continuously from starting to quitting time arid eat lunch on the job on Corporation time, i t is understood that work duties will be arranged, tot he extent that it is practical to do so, in such a way as to permit him to eat his meal as close to the m i dpo i n t o f the shift as poss i bIe.
The emp I oyer sha I I set up a master sh i ft schedu le for a fifty-six (56) day period, posted fifteen (15) days in advance, wh i ch wi I I cover the norma I requ i rements of the work area.
Provided sufficient advance n o t i c e is given and subject to the approval of the Corporation, emp I oyees may exchange shifts if there is no increase in cost to the Corporst ion.
The setting of sh if t hours and the determination of who sha I I work on these shifts maybe discussed by the Corporationwith the Al I iancebutthe final decision thereon shal I be at the so I e discretion of the Corpora, tion,
An employeewho is requ i red to change h is schedu led sh i f t without receiving at leastfive (5) days’ notice in advance of thestart i ngt imeof such change in his scheduled 3 h if t, 3 h a I I bepaidfor the first shift worked on the revised schedule at the rate of t ime and one-ha I f (1 1/21 . Subsequent sh if ts worked onthe revised schedule shaI I be paidforat straight tine, subject to the overt ins prov i si ons of this Agreement.
Regular work performed on a Saturday shalI be paid for at the rate of time and one-quarter (1 1/4) for the first three (3) hours and time and one-half (1	1/21 for the time thereafter.
16.11
16.12
i 7.0 1
(a)
<b>
(c )
(d)
17.02 (a)
( b )
17.03
17.04
17.05
Page 13
Any work performed on a Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of two (2) times the employee’s normal rate of pay.
REQT-PfffWeeS
It is understood the eng ineers will take , when appropr i a te a fifteen (15) minute coffee break t h r e e (3) times during their twelve ( 1?) hour shift.
ARIIQl_E_12
QVFRiiMF
S£N£8AL
''Overtime" means work performed by an employee in excess or outside of an employees scheduled hours of work.
Overtime sha I I be paid in cash except emp I oyeess may bank any overt irae pay with the Corporation for f u t u r e use Juring vacationperiods or at Christmas t fine. Fmp I oyees must inform their foreman of their intention prior to the end of the week in which the overt i me was w o r k e d .
Overtime leave wi II only be granted provided qualified employees are ava i I ab I e to rep lace the employee at the straight time rate.
"Stra i ght t ime rate" means the regu! ar hour I y rate Of pay.
"Time andone-ha I f “ means one and one-ha I f t imes the stra i ght time rate.
"Doub i etime" means twice the straight time rate.
Subject to the operational requirements of the Corporation, the Corportion shaI I make every reasonable effort to:
al locate overt ime work on an equ i tab I e has i s among read i I y ava i I ah I e qua ! if iedemp I oyees: and
to give employees who are required to work overtime adequate advance notice of this requ i rement .
Emp 1 oyees requ i red to work overtiine in any day sha I i be entitled to t ime and one-ha I f coinpensat ion for the first two hours of overt ime and doub le t i me compensat i on theraf •
Employees required towork ontheir first scheduled day of rest shall be entit ledto time and one-half compensation for the f irst ten hoursand doub I e t ime coinpensat ion thereafter.
Employees required to work on the i r second consecut i ve scheduled d ay of rests ha libe entit ledto double-t ime cornpensat ion for a I I hours worked.
Page 14
17.Oh An employee who is asked to work overtime Monday to Friday and who works two (?) or more consecutive hours of overtime shal I receive a hot meal or a mea: allowance of $5.00. On Saturday or Sunday an employee required to work unscheduled overtime shall be entitled to a meal allowance of SA.00.
17.07
12.01
19.01
Mo overtime will apply in cases where such is the result of a shift change through mutual agreement between employees.
ARILQLE._L8
SIANQBY
No emp I oyee sha i I be required to stand-by on his off duty hours. Should t h e employeein thefuture want to introduce a standby provisi on the parties agree to reopen the collective agreement to negotiate the condit ions and rate of pay for a proposed standby prov is i on.
ARIICl_E_L9
QAi_L-aacK_
An emp I oyee who has left the premises of the Corporation after completion of his scheduled shift, and who is called back for work, sha i I be entitled to time and one--half(li/2) compensat i on for al Ihours worked on recall up to the starting time ofhis scheduled shift, but in any event he shal I be paid for not less than four hours at the aforementi oned rate.
20.01 CREDITS
ARIICI_F_2Q
SLQ|<J_favf
Aii emp I oyee sha ! I , upon camp let ion of his initial probationary period, earn sick leave at the rate of oneaiid one -quarter (1 1/41 days for eat h calendar mon thforwhichhe receives pay at least fifteen (15)days in accordance w i t h the policyof the Corporation,
20.02	GRANTING OF SICK LEAVE
An employee is eligible for sick leave with pay:
(a)	when he is absent f rom workbecause of d i sabi I i ty due to certified i I Iness or certified n o n - c o m p e n s a b I e accident; and
(b)	provided he has the necessary sick leave credits.
20.03	The Corporation reserves the right to requirean employee to undergo amedita I examination.
Page 15
20.0a"' If an employee becomes ill and cannot report for work, he shall inform his immediate supervisor or the plant personnel supervisor of his illness, not later than one-haif hour beyond the normal starting time of his shift. Upon return to duty he is required to report to the plant personnel supervisor to complete a Declaration of Illness form.
20.05
20.06
20.07
Disciplinary action including suspension and discharge may be taken in any case of evident abuse of sick leave.
Anemployee is not eligiblefor sick I save wi th pay duri ngany period in which he is on I eave of absence without pay or under suspension.
Where an employee has insufficient or no credits to cover the granting of sickleave with pay under the provisions of Clause 20.02, sick leave with pay may be granted:
for a period of upto twenty-five (25) days, if he is awaiting adecision on an application for i n j u r y - o n - d u t y I eave, or
for a period of up to fifteen (15)days if he has not submitted a n app I cat i onf or i n jury-on-duty leave.
Subject to the deduct i onofsuch advanced leave from any sick leave credits subsequently earned.
20.08	No emp ioyee sha i I be d i scharged because of s ickness or
disability resulting from accident sustained while performing Corporation duties, On returning to work , t h e emp Ioyee shall receive his former posit ion provided such emp1oyee is not adjudged i ncapab I e of performi ng h is former dut i es, in which case the Corporat ionwill endeavour to find su i tab lework.
21.01
22.01
ARIICLE_2i
INjySY_0N_DyiY
An emp 1 oyee i n j u r e d inthe performance of his dut suffer no loss of earn ingsforthe hours he won I d but were necessarily lost on the day in which the Occurs, 'f,, as a result of such injury he is sent the hospital or for medical attention on instruct p I an t manager.
es sha II have worked accident home o r t o on frOm the
ARTICLE_ZZ
LE&vf_qf_absfnce
The Corporation may grant a leave of absence with or vJithout pay for reasons not specifically covered by this Agreement, provided that a request is made in writing by the employee outlining the reasons for such a request. The Emp!oyer agrees not to unreasonably deny a request tinder this Article.
P a g a 16
ABIJCLE_23
BEREAVEMENTJ-.EAVE
23.01	For the purpose of this clause, immediate familyis defined as father , mother, stepf at her, stepmother, brother, sister, spouse, ch i id or ward* of the employes, grandchi Id and g r 2 n c p a rents.
(a)	Where a member of his immediate family dies, an emp!oyee sha I t
be ent / t led to bereavement leave, for the purpose of attending services,for a peri oo of up to three (3) consecutive calendar days and not exceeding the day following the fun era I . During such 8 per i ob, he snail bepaid for those dayswhich were not r egu I ar il y s c h e d u I e d days of rest for that employee.
*Ror the purpose of this Article, "ward" means a person who is without fulllegal capacity or is otherwise i ncapab I e O f manag i ng h i s own affair-s, and whose person, propertyorrightsare»*f»r t t a protect ion or mffther para on known aa a guardian.
(b)	An employee is ent i t i ed t o special leave with pay, up I o a
maximum of one (	1) day, in the event of the death of the
employee’s son-in-law, daughter-in-law, br o t her-i n-I aw , sister-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-l2w, aunt, uncle, niecPS> nephews, or a relative permanently residing in the employee's household or with whom the emp I oyee permanent ly t-es ides.
(c)	It is recognized by the parties that the circu m stances which
ca i I for I eave in respect of bereavement are based on individual circumstances. On request , th e Corpora t ion may, after considering the particular circumstances involved, grant Ieav4 with or without pay for a period greater than that provided for in Clause 23.01 (a) and (b).
ABJJC1.E_24 Q'QURT-L £AVE.
2$.01	Where an employee is called and serves as a juror or a witness
providedit is not in his own defense, the Corporation will makeupthe difference between pay orwit ness fees and the employee’s regu lar average hour I y earn ingsfor such periods of jury duty or timehe serves as a witness as fat I within a normal work day,
24.0? Where an employee is cai led for jury dirty or as a witness other than in his own defense, and where he is notrequired to be present tofulfi II such duties, the employee wi I Ireportfor work in the usual manner.
Page 17
ARJJQL§_25
LEAVE	-JVrP,TV OF..CHILD
25.01	An employee shal Ibe granted one (1) day of I eavewi thpay on theoccasion of the birth of his child.
ARTH-e>t€-*S
26.01
26.02
26.03
26. OA
26.05
26.06
paio_holioays
For the purpose of this Agreement 2nd in order that employees sha I i suffer no loss i n p a y , a I I employees shal I he paid t h e i r reguIar ra te for t h e f 0 I'owingrecognized ho I i days:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Hay Dorn i n i on Day Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day Chris tmas Day Boxing Day Remembrance Day Civic Holiday
An einployee isnot entitled to be paid for a statuatory ho! iday on which he does not work when he is notentitled to wages f 0 r at least fifteen (15) days during the th i rty (BO) ca I endar days i mme diately preceedingthe statuatory ho li day, uni ess absent with the permission of the Corporation, or absence due to certified illness, or i i I ness in the employee’s family necessitating his absence, or death in his familyor jury duty Or injury.
If 8 hoiidayas set forth in Clause 26.01 falls on a day which is not a regular working day, the first working day preceding ho I iday or the first work, ing day thereafter shall be considered the holiday.
If en employee works on any of the above-name o' holidays, he shall bepaid h is regu I ar wages for that day, and in add i t i on t i me and one-ha If pay for the actual t i me worked, subject to additional straight - time payment w h ere the hours worked exceed h I s n o rmaI da i ! y work period.
Where a hoiidayas set out in Ciause26.01falls during the period of an ernp I oy ee ' s vac at i o n , the per i od of vac?, t ion shall be I engthened by one workiiig day to inc I ude the ho I i day.
In addition, should any day no:	now so mentioned in this
Agreement be proclaimed by the Parliament of Canada 0 r the Legislature of Mani toba he proc. I a i med a h 0 I i d a y , it shal I, on proclamation become a part of this Agreement.
Page 18
27.01
(a)
(b)
( c )
id)
27.02 27 .03
27.04 27. OS 27. OS
(a)
(b)
ABIICLE_27
LEAVE
ACC UMjJLiAJJ PAL PP_ VACATION, LEAVE
During any ca I endar year an smp I oyee sha ! I earn vacat ion I eave at the following rates for each calendar month in whichhe receives at least fifteen (IS) days pay:
five-sixth’s (S/M of a day per month, blit not to exceed a total of two (2) weeks' leave if Re has completed less than two (2) years of continuous employment; the vacation pay shal I be calculated at four percent (4%) of the employee's total earnings;
one and one-quarter (11/4) days per month, but not to exceed a total of three (3) weeks' leave, effective from the month in whic h he has	comp	I eted	two	(2) years of con t i nuous emp ! oymen t ;
the vacation	pay	shali	be	calculatedat	six percent (67,) o f the
employee’s total earnings.
oneand two-thi rds(i 2/31 days p e r month, hut not to exceed a totalof -four (4) weeks leave, effect ive from the month in which he has	comp	I sted	ten	(lO)years of	conti nuous employment,
the vacation	pay	shall	be	calculatedat	eight percent (8 Z) Of
the employee's total earnings.
effective May 1 , 1987, two and one-twelfth days per month but not to exceed a totalof 5 weeks leave effective "or the month in which he has completed fifteen ( 15) years o f continuous employment, the vacation pay shal Ibe calculated at ten percent (10°/,) of the employee's total earnings.
Payment of wages in I ieuof vacation is not permitted.
Vacat ions earned dur Ing t h e current vacation year must be taken during the vacat ion year immediately following that in wiiich they are earned.
Vacation paywiil be given an employee immediately prior to the commencement of h is vacat i on.
Vaca. tion per i o d s can on ly be accumulated and carried over by mutual agreement between the Corporation and the employee.
Where t/ie emp I oyinent of the employee by the Corporation is term i nated before the completion of the employee's year of employment, the Corpora: ion shal I forthwith pay to the employee:
any vacat i on pay ow i n c by i t to the emp I oyee in respectof any prior comp I eted year of employment; and,
any vacat ion pay earned but not used by the employee during the completed portion of his year of employment.
Page 19
27.0/' Notwithstanding the p r e v i o u s clause, the C o r p o rati on is not required to pay an employee any amount under that paragraph unless the employee has been conti nuously employed by i t for aperiodof thirty days or more.
27.08	Wlnen the einplOyment of an employee who has completed more than one month of continuous employment is terminated by reason of (a) death, (b)discharge,or (c) a declaration that he has abandonee h ! s pus i t i on, the emp I oyee or his estate shall, in
I ieu of the unused vacat ion leave be paid an amount equ.i to the product obtained by mu i tip lying the number of days earned but unused vacation leave by the dailyrate of pay applicable tot h e employeei mm ediatelypriorto the termination of h is empIoyment.
27.09	VACATION. l£AVF.£nND.l.T.LO^
(a)	Prior to the first day of February of each year, the Corporation shall post a listing of employees who are entitled to vacations dur i ngthat year.
(b)	Withina period of one ( 1 ) month after the I ist h as been posted, each employeewil I record his preferred period of vacation on the said list.
(c)
( d)
( e 5
Oil or before the Istday of May. the Corporation wil I review the vacation preferences requested by the employees. I f production requirements so permit , each emp I oyee w i I I be authorized to take his vacation in accordance with his preferente, and sha i I be so not I f ied on or before the said date.
If the Coporat ion does not author i ze an empIoyee to take h is vacation dur i ng the emp loyee’s preference vacation period, such employee will be sonot if ied before the 1st of May. The Corporation agrees to review wi th the Union the reasons why a emp I oyee’s vacat i onpreferenc e was den i e d , if requested to do so. Second choice to be by way of seniority.
It is agreed that an employeecannot take h is vacation leave at t imes not operat iona I ly convenient to the emp loyer, a n d the employer will not require the emp I oyee to take h is vacation at times not requested by the employee.
27.10	Fmp I oyees w i t h twenty-two ( 22) years o r more senioritywho qualify for four (4) weeks vacation shall be entitled to a vacation bonus o f 4225. QOp aid once per year. Emp I oyees with twenty-two (22>years or more seniori tymay take an add i t ional un pa i d week away from work as part ofthevacation bonus.
A3IICLE_2-8
PAY
Pag?
20
28.01	An employee is entitled to be pa Hdf or services rendered at the rate of pay specified in Appendix "A" attached hereto and forming part of th is Agreement .
28.02	a) Payday sha I I b e hi-weekiy and each employee shall be
prov i ded w i th an i temi zed statement of h is wages and deductions-,
b)	Fmployees comp let ing the afternoon, shift (A; CO p.m.
to 12:00 midnight) on the day immediately before payday sha I i be g iven tie i r cheques upon comp I et ion of that shift; and,
c)	Fmployees completing the evening shift (12:00 midnight-8:00 a.m.) of the paydays ha I I be given their cheques upon comp I et i on of that shift.
28.03	Employees involved in educational courses pertaining tothe
upgrad ing of the i r trade, or writing examinations for any class of certificate relating to their trade, may he reimbursed f o r te cost oftaking such course or examination, at thet imeof cornpiet i on of such course and/or examination and provided prior approvalhas been received from the Corporation. Such requests are to made in writ ingthirty daysin advance of the taking of such course or exam i nation .
ARTICLE, 2-9
SHIFT PREMIUM
29.01	Emp I oyeessha I Ihe pa id a shift premium of 38 cents per hour
for al I hours worked on the afternoon siiift (A: 00 to 12:00 )a n d a premium of 60 cents per hour for a II hoursworked onthe evening shift(12:00to8:00).
Effective May 1,1989 - Afternoon shift premium - A3 cents per hour, and evening shift -65 cents per hour.
ABXI-ClcE-30
CLOTHING
30.01	Covet-al Is, shirts, slacks, and parkas shall be provided to
employees to be worn during the performance of their duties.
It shall be the responsibili tyof the Corporation to supply, ciean, launder, and maintain al I clothing used. There will be no reissue until prior issue i s returned.
Page 21
ARTICLE.31
STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS
31.01
3L0WQPWNS_QR_ JNIERRUPT_I ONS_OF_ PROpUCJJ ON
31.02
It is agreed that the A! I iancewillnot, during the term of this Agreement, author i ze, promote, direct .condone, or encourage any s lowdownor other cur ta i I men t o r restrict ion of product ion or interference with work in or aboutthe Corporation’s plants or premises nor will employees take part in any such actions,
SISI;iES_QR_LOCK-OyiS_QURING_IHr_LiEE_QE_ILi£_AQREEtlENI
It is agreed thatthe A! iiancewil I not, during the life of th i s Agreement, author i ze, promote, direct , condone or encourage a strike of employees affected by this Agreement i
will empl oyeestake part in
Corporation
emp I oyees
will not during
such action. It the life of this
is agreed that the Agreement lock out
ARTICLE _2.2 PILES
32.01	In the even t t h a t a w r i 11 e n formal review of an employee's performance is made, the employee sha I I be g iven an opportunity to si gnthe review form in question to indicate that its contents have been read and exp ' a ined,
32.02	The Corporationwill pay a tool al Iowa nee of up to $100.00 per calendar year for each of the stat ionary engineers, This wi II
i nc I ude purchase of new too I s requ i red for the job. Too Is must be kept on the Corporation premises and availab ' e for use when the engineer is on duty. Tool inspection may be carried out at any time during an engineer's shift.
32.03	The Corporation wi I I continue payment of the Corporat ion’s share of Manitoba Medical Services premiums to emp I oyees for whom the Corporat ion pa id the employee’s share of the premi um prior to June I, 1973. These payments will be made in December-.
32.0A	TAe Corporat ion agrees to pay 3 II costs of renewing the
operat i ngt ickets for each of the Stat ionary Eng i neers.
32.05 The Corporation wi I Igrant each employee a. safety footwear allowance of thirty-five do liars ($35,00) for each t we've months worked for the purchase of safety Soots or safety shoes. In order to qua I i fy for the sa id a I lowance, the emp I oyee sha I I be required to wear safety boots or safety shoes a. t a. II time while at work.
32. OA
PENSION PI AN
The Superannuation Pi an ?s out I ined by the Public Service Superannuation Act which Wn placed into effect by the
Corporation on behalf ofthe emp I oyees is to con: i nue.
32.07
(a)
( b )
(c)
( d)
e
32.08
32.0°
Page 22
The Corporat i on agrees to supply a I I employees covered by the above Public Service Superannuation Act, once yearly before February fifteenth (15th), a written statement showing the s ta t u 3 o f t h e i r plan as o f December 31st, of the previousyear
SAEEIY_AND.HEALJH
The Union and the Corporat ion shalltakeal Ireason able steps, in order to promote a Hd improve health and safety practices, Additionally.tliepartieswillco-operate in the application and enforcement of reasonable health and safety rules and practices.
The Corporation and a! I employees shall comply with al I applicable Federal Health and Safety laws and regulations. Nothing precludes the Corporation and the Union from mutually agreeing on a safety and health procedure and/or practice which, in their opinion, would provide a greater measure of safety and health for employees than provided for in the Federal law or regulations.
A representative of the powerhouseemp I oyees to be designated by t h eemp I oyees will take part in the safety & health c omm it tee meet i ngs when a va i I ab I e .
If the employee is off shift when the coaaittee meet ings are held and the employee atte n d s these meetings he should be paid his straight time wage for the hoursthe committee meets.
If the employee is on shift, the emp ! oyerwi I I make every reasonabieeffort to find a rep iacement for the period of t ime the employee’s attendance at the committee meeting is required.
Union members of the heal th and safety c omm itteeshall be entitled to reasoned letimeoff from work with no loss of senior ityor earnings if approved by the Corporationto attend educational courses and semi cars for instruction and upgrading on health and safety matters.
Time spent by members of the committee in the course of their dutiesas approved by the Corporation shall be considered as t i me w n r k e d .
The Corporation shall provide the members of the health and safety comm i ttee w ith a summary of each acc ident , Or Occurence of an occupational disease that occurred at the workplace during the previous inonth, This summary will he provided at the month ly safety and heal thmeeti ngs.
TECHNOLOGICAL.change
In the event of a technological change, the provisions of Canada Labour Code will apply.
new.machinery
Inthe event t h a t new machinery should be broughtin creating new classifications and jobs, wages and cl ass i f i cat ions for such shall be negotiated with the Union immediately.
Page
23
32.itr' LEAyE_EQR_UNJpNI_BUSINESS
Employees will be granted leaves of absence without pay tp attend Union meetings and conventions bearing in mind the operations of the plant. Time so granted does not affect the employee’s vacation period nor seniority. The Un ion will give the Corporation one (1) week’s notice of such leaves of absence.
32.11	5EN£RAL
Where the mandatory provisions of any statute enacted i; the Government of Canada a re more beneficial to an employee than the provisions conta.inacl i n t h i s c o I I ec t i ve g r e emen t , the said statutory provis ions 3ha I I be deemed to supercede the provisions of the col I active agreement.
32.12	Li£ALIti_CARE_BENEFIJS
As discussed at the bargaining table the following health care plans are available to your inembers:
Group Life Insurance Disability Insurance Extended Health Care Insurance
The emp 1 oyees are requ i red to pay a port ionofthe premiums f o r these plans. In addition we also offer Dependent Life Insurance but the emp I oyees are asked t o pay 100°/, of the premiums,
The plans are described in detail in the employee’s Group Insurance Benefits* handout.
32.13	QENIAL _P1_AN
A basic dental plan is available to all employees after the completion of one hundred and twenty (120) shifts.
Al I employees upon completion of one hundred and twenty (120) shifts, will pay monthly dental premiums during their first week of the month while employed. If laid off, dental coverage will be in effect up to and including the end of the respective month in which the premium was paid.
Page 24
DURATION
33.01	This collective
33.0?	UnI ess otherwise
agreement shall
agreement shall expire on April 30, 1990.
expressly stipulated, the provisions of this become effective on the date it is signed.
SIGNFD at Winnipeg, Manitoba, this 23rd day of February, 1988
FRESHWATER FISH MARKETING	PUBLIC SERVICE ALLIANCE OF
CORPORATION	CANADA
Page 25
APPENDIX_:a:
PAJES_QE_PAY
May 1, 1987	May 1, 1988	May 1, 1989
( S per hour)	($per hour )	(Sper hour)
Operating Engineer	$18.18	$18.88	$17.18
(2nd Class)
Opera t ingFngi near	$15.38	$15.88	$18.38
( 3 r d C I a s s )