COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
FRESHWATER FISH MARKETING CORPORATION
Of)
AND:
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION, AFL-CIO, CLC, LOCAL 561
TABLE.. OF.-.CONTENTS
1.2
.1.3
14
15 1 6
17
18
description
Purpose
Definitions
Recognition
Management Runeti one
Strikes and Lockouts
Union Security and Check-off
Appal ntment of Stewards
Use of Corpor at, i on Fac i 1 i t i es
Gr i evance Procedures
Arb i trat i on
Seniority
Layoff and Recall
Transfer out of Bargaining Unit
Temporary Transfer
Shi ft Changes
Job Transfers
Jab Post i ng
Discharge, Suspensi on and Di sci pi i ne Un i forms and Supplies General Provi si ons Leave of Absence Technological Change New Mach i nery Supervi sors Working No Discrimination Health and Safety Schedul e “A” - Ho ur Banked Overt i me Wages
Bereaventen t Leave Jut-y Duty Emergency Cal 1 -i n
Job Class! f i eat i on and Wage Rates Schedule "B" - Vacation wi th Pay Schedule "C" - Statutory Hoi i days Schedule "D" - Benef i t Program F'ensi on PI an Si ckness and Di sabi 1 i ty Li f e Insurance F'l an Dental Flan Extended Heal thcare Post Retirement Heal thcare Program Termination of Agreement
of Work and □ vertime
RAGE
1
1
U
7
10 1 1
12
13
13
14
15
16 16 1 6 16 17 17 17
19
20 20
24 27 09 o 9 00
;i
.I.
ARIIQLE._1_-...purposes
1.01	The p ur pose s o f t hi s aq r ee m ent are:
a)	t o	e s t a b 1 i s h m u t. u a 1 3. y	s a t i s f a c t. o r y r e 3. a t i o n s
between the Corporat i on ancl its p 3. ant. ernp3. oyees;
b)	to establish procedure -for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances; and
c)	to promote and maintain satisfactory working
conditions, hours of work and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this agreement. All subject, to the provisions of Article 4.	’
ARTICLE __ 2 _=_ D E FJ N m ON S
2.01	For the p ur pose of t hisagreement:
a)	"Union" means the Retail , Whol esal e and Department Store LJn i on , Local no . 561, AFL-C10 , C . L.. C . ;
b)	"Bargaining Unit" means the employees of the ernp 1 oyer described in Ar t i c 1 e 3;
c)	"Corporati on" means the Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation;
cl) "Daily rate of pay" means the employee’s hourly rate of pay multiplied by eight;
e)	"Overtime" means wor k pert: ormed by an emp 1 oyee i n excess of eight hours .i. n a day or i n excess of forty hour s j. n hi s schedul ed work week for all employees;
f)	"Straight-time rate" means the regular hourly t-ate o f pay;
g)	"Time and one-hal f " means one and one-hal f times the straight time t-ate;
h)	"Double time” means twice the straight time rate;
i)	"Employee" means an employee who is a member of the bat-gaining unit;
j) "Hourly rate o-f pay" means the rate o-f pay schedu 1 ecl j. n Appencl i	" A11 appile a.b 1 e t o t he
e 1T1 p 1 o y e e ’ s c .1 a s s i f i c a t i o n ;
k )	'' Layo-f-f " means an employee whose emp 1 oyment has
been temporarily terminated because of lack of work, and who is subject to recall to work;
1) "Union dues" means the dues established pursuant to the constitution of the Union as the dues payable by its members as a consequence of their membership in the Union, and shall not include any initiation -fee., insurance premium, or special 1 evy.
ARTI CLE_ 3 _ - „RE C0GNITK3N
3.01	The Canada Labour Relations Board has not certified the
Union as the bargaining agent for plant employees, but nonetheless, the Corporation voluntarily recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all plant, employees of the Corporation in the Province of Manitoba, except;
a)	Employees excluded from the bargaining unit during the currency of this agreement;
b)	Foremen, supervisors and persons above the rank of
supervisor;	•
c ) Office sta-f f ;
d)	Employees descr i bed by the Certificate of Cert if i cat i on i ssued by the Canada Labour Riel at i ons Board dated February 22nd , 1 973 . (No . of Cert i f i cate F-66-2694) .
ARTICLE _4	„MANAGEMENT__ FUNCTJONS
4,01	The Union recognizes the undisputed right. of the
Corporation to operate and to manacle i ts business in al. 1 respects and to make and to al ter from time to time rules and regulations which are to be observed by
emp1oyees.
4.02
4,0
4,04
The Union recopni zes the r-i ght of the Corporation to hire, to promote, t o lay o-f-f , to recall , to transfet-, to	suspend,	to	discipline, and to discharge	any
employee for just cause , subject to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance i n the manner and ta the extent hereinafter provided, The Union recoqni zes the right of the Corporati on to operate a n d to	manage	its	business	in accordance with	its
commitments and responsibi 1 i ties without limiting tue generality of the foregoing.	It shall. be the
prerogati ve of the Corporat .i on to decide upon operati ng techniques, methods, mach i net-y, and equipment, the schedule s ofproduct i on , processes and means of production of its products, and all other matters which can be justified on the basis of prudent business operations. The exercise of the foregoing rights shall not alter any of the provisions of th.i sagreement, The Cor p or at i on shall not .ex ere i se t his right in a discriminatory manner and shall act. in a manner which is fair, reasonable, in good faith, and con si stent wi th the collective agreement.
The Union and the Corporati on mutual 1 y agree t hat the employees coming under its j ur i sd .i. c t i on, and Management, will abide by all the terms of this
Agreemen t,
When new rules and/or regulations are to be implemented by Management they shal 1 be di scussed wi th the Union executive the day the new rul es or regulations are to be implemented. If the Union executive is notin agreement with the new rules and/or regulations, it may be subject to Article 9 and 10.
ART IC LE_ J5_ z_ STRIKES AND ^LOCKOUTS
5.01	SLOWDOWNS OR INTERRUPTIONS OF PRODUCTION
It is agreed that the Union will not, during the term of this Agreement, authorize, promote, direct, condone, or encourage any slowdown or other curtai lment or restriction of production or interference with work in or about the Corporation's plants or premises nor will employees take part in any such actions.
5,0	2	STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS DURING THE LIFE OF THE AGREEMENT
It is agreed that the Union will not, during the life of this Agreement, authorize, promote, direct condone or encourage a strike of employees affected by this Agreement nor will employees take part i n an\ such action. It is agreed that the Corporation will not during the life of this Agreement lock out employees.
4
ARTJ CLE 6_ -. UN	on__SECUR__I_ T Y__ anD cheCk-off
6.01.
All employees o-F the Corporation covered by this a g feem e n t w In o a r e e i s t i n g m embers of t h e LJ n i o n s h a 3. 1 as a condition of employment maintain their membership in good standing for the duration of the agreement. All new employees after thirty (30) days of employment shal1"as a condition of employment become members of the Un i on.	,
6.02
The Corporation agrees to a check-off of the amount of regular monthly union dues of all employees and shall transmi t the amount so deducted, alOng with a I.i31 of the names of the emp 1 oyees f ram whom such deducti ons were made, to the Union office prior to the 15th day of each month .
a)	Union dues will he deducted monthly.
6,03	The Corporation agrees that al 1 new empl oyees shall on
the first day of employment Sign a post-dated application for membership in the Union effective thirty (30) days later, which shall provide for Corporation deduct i on of initiation fees, Un i on dues and assessments.	For the convenience of the;
Carporation, application forms shal 1 be supplied by the Union .
6.0 4	The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Corporation
harmless against any claim or liability arising out of the; application of this article except for any claim or liability arising out. of an error comini tted by the; Corporati on in connection with deduction of the amount equal to the monthl y membershi p dues .
6.05	The Corporati on agrees to show a year-to-date totalo f union dues paid on each employee's pay stub.
6.06	The Corporation agrees to i nclude union dues deductions
on the emp 1 oyee 7 s T4 si i ps »
ART] CL E_ 7„ -.. A P P 0 LN.IM.ENI_ JJF .STEWARDS
7.01	The Corporation acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint employees as stewards.
7.02	The Uni on shall notify the Corporation promptly and in writing of the names of its stewards.
7.03	Union officers and committee members shall be entitled to I. eave their work station during working hours in order to carry out their functions under this agreement, including but not limited to, the i nvest i gati on and process!, ng of grievances, attendance at meetings with the employer and/or the Union r e p r e s e n t a t i v e .
7 • O4	P ermi ssi on t.o .1 eave thei r wurk station du.ri nq worki nq
hours for such purposes shall first be obtained from thiei r i mmed i a.te su.per vi sor , Such p e r m i ssi on shall not be uiireasonab 1 y wi t.hhie 1 d .
7.05	The Corporation agrees to pay their employees, at the
regular straight time rate, who are Union officers, shop stewards or on committees fulfilling their Union duties while attending meetings, and/or investigating and processing grievances pertaining to the Corporation, The time and place to be approved by both the Corporation and the Union.
ARJJ_CL!!;Az_ySE_OF..QORPQRATigN_FACILIIIES
8.01	If an authorized Union representative, who is no«
emp 1 oyed by the Corporat i on , desires to speak to 1 ocal Uni on representati ves in the plant about a grievance or Other official Union busi ness, he shall first. obtain approval (which shal 1 not be unreasonably withheld), of the F'l ant Super i ntendent or his designate, who shal 1 then call the local Union representative (s) to the office whet-e they may confer privately.	These
discussions will be arranged so that they will not i nterf ere wi th product i on .
8.02	The Corporat ion agrees to suppl y one (1) hull.etin board
for the exclusive use of the Un i an , The Corporat i on shall have t he right to refuse the post i ng of any information which it considers adverse to its interests or to the interests of any of its representati ves, All notices must be signed by the proper off i cers of the Union, Carporation to supply lockable bulletin board.
A B'l I CLE_ 9_ ~G R IE V AN C E _ PR 0 CEDURES GENERAL
9,01	a) The time limits presented in this Article may be
extended by mutual consent of the parti es,
b) An employee who presents a cornpl aint or grievance at. any stage may, if the employee so desi res , be assisted or represented by a duly elected representative of the Union.
c) A grievance may be presented by an employee on his own behalf or on behalf of himself and one or more other employees.
6
COMPLAINTS
9,02
a)	An employee shall have the right to discuss and set tie with the slaper vi sor of the i r depar t msn t any c oinp 1 a. j. n t they rnay h a. ve. Slac hi cl i sc uss i on s sh a 1 1 take place within 48 hoLA.rs of the date when the emp 1 oyee f i rst. became aware of the c i r clamstances giving rise to the complaint.
b)	l'n the event that the supervisor fails to sat. i sf actor i 1 y resolve that. complaint within f or t y-ei gh t (48) hour s of not i f i. c at i on , t he employee may refer the matter to the Plant Superi ntendent or hi s designate.
c)	The Plant Superintendent or his designate may reso 1 ve t h £5 comp 1 a i n t. w i t h i n for t y-e i g h t (48) hours of presentation, or failing this, the complaint may be submitted .in writing as a formal gr j. evance.
GMEVMCES. procedure S .STAGE...!
9.03	All employee, whether he or she has complied with
Article 7 □ 04 . . □ 05 , 7.0 & o r not , who f eel s hi rnsel f or herself tO be aggrieved, shal 1 have the right. to present a. written	grievance in	accordance	with	the
f ol 1 owi ng procedures:
a)	An emp 1 oyee may prasent thei r gr i evance t o the
supervisor Of	thei r department within	ten	(10)
days of the date on which they first became aware of the action or ci rcumstances g i vi ng r i. se to the grievance.
b)	The grievance	shall state	the nature	o/	the
grievance, the	article vi ol	ated , and the	redress
sough t.
c)	The supervi sor shal 1 reply to the grievance within
forty-right (48) hours of i ts presentation . If the supervisor fails t.o reply within the said time period the grievance shall be deemed to be denied at this stage.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES- i_Stage_2
Y.04	a) Should the supervi sor fail	to satisfactori 1 y
resolve the grievance within forty-eight (48) hours of notification, the employee shall refer the matter to the shop steward of the department.
b) Within a period of three (3) days after expiration of the time period in (c) of Stage 1, the shop steward, with or without	the	grievor i n
at tendance, may take the matter up with the supervi. sor of the department .
7
GRIEVANCE PR0CEDURES_-STAGE 3
9.0 5	a > S h a u 1 d t ft e g r i e v a n c: e still re rn a i n u. n r e s o 1 v e d , t. h e
Union may take the matter up with the Plant Superintendent or his designate within three (3) days,
b) The PI ant Superintendent or hi s designate will, meet with the Union at a t i m e m u t u a 11 y a r r a. n g e d t o
i-nake his decision.	Authorised Union
representatives froill outside the plant may be involved at ths stage.
c) Any deci sion made shall be given in writing within seven (7> days o i t e gr ievance being filed at Stage Th ree (3) .
d) If the grievance is denied, the Union m a y process the gri evance to arbi trati on „
POLICY GRIEVANCE
9-06	I n respect of any violation of the agreement:, the Union
may, in its discretion, file a Union, group or pal icy grievance.	in such a case, the procedure shall
commence at Stage Three (3)o f Clause 9. 05.
CORPORATION GRIEVANCE
9.07	The Corporation shall have the right to institute a
grievance in respect of any viOI. atioi-i of this Agreement, and the grievance r3hal 1 b.e served On the President or Chief Steward of the Uni on , wi th a copy by registered mail to the union. In such case, the procedure shal I. commence at Stage 3 of Clause 9. 05 .
AJRT l_C L E _10 ARBJ TRATI ON
10.01	COMPOSITION O F BOARD OF ARBITRATION
When either party requests that a grievance be submi tted to arbi trati on , the request shall be made by
registered mai. 1 addressed t o the other party of the Agreement, indicating the name of i ts nomi nee on an Arbi tration Board. Within five (5) days thereafter, the other party shall answer by registered mai 1 indicating the name and address of its appointee to the Arbitration Board. The two arbitrators shall then meet to select an impartial chairman.
8
10,02	FAILURE TO APPOINT
If the recipient of the notice fails to appoint. an arbitrator or if the two appointees fail to agree upon a Chairman within seven (7) days of appointment, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour, Government of Canada, upon the request of either party.
1 0,0
„ 0 □ 0 .
BOARD PROCEDURE
The Board may determine its own procedure, but shall give fu 1 1 opportuni ty to a. 1 3. parties to present evidence and make representations to it.
DECISIONS OF THE BOARD
The decision of the majority shall be the decision o f the boat-d . Where there is no majority decision, the decision of the Chairman shal I be the deci sion of the Board. The decision of the Board of At-hi trati on shal .1 be final and binding and enforceable on all parties, t)Ht 1 n n O even-t sh a 1 1 the Baa r d of At-b i t r a t i on have the power to change this Agreement or to alter, modi f y or amend any of its provisions. However, thi s Board shal 1 have ti-ie right to dispose of any grievance made pursuant t o Article 14 by con-f i rmi ng the Management’s acti on in di smi. ssi ng t h e empl oyee or by reinstating t he employee with full compensation for lost t i me, Or by any other arrangement which the Hoard of At-bitratiOn deems just and equi tabl e.
10.05	DISAGREEMENT ON DECISION
Should the par-ties disagree as to the meaning of the decision , ei ther party, within ten (10) days of the receipt of the arbitration award , may apply to the
Chairman of the Board of Arbi trat i on to reconvene the Board to clarify the decision. The Arbitration Roar-d shal .1 meet prompt 1 y with the pat-t i es and c1 arifyits decision.
10.06	EXPENSES OF THE BOARD Each party shall pay:
a)	the fees and ex penses o f the arbi trator i t appoints; and
b)	one-half the fees and expenses of the Chairman .
10.07	AMENDING OF THE LIMIT
The time limit fixed on both the grievance and at-b i trat i on procedure may be extended bv consent of the
parties to thi s Agreement .
Y
1 0.08
10.09
10.1 0
WITNESSES
At any sta.g e of the gr i evance or ar b i t r at i on proc:edure, t h e f a r t i e s m a y h a v e the assistance of t h e e m p 1 o y ee(s) concerned as witness(es) and any other witnesses, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties or the arbitrator (s) to have access-, to the Carporat i on •’ s premi ses to view any wor k i ng conditions which may be relevant to the settlement of the grievance.
No pear son may serve on the Board of Arbitration who has been involved in an (attempt to negotiate or settle the gri evance.
When a period of time as outlined in Article Nine (9) and Ten (10)is expressed as a number of days, that number of days shall not include Saturday, Sunday, or any other non-wor ki ng days.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11.01	a) A new employee shall be an probation for a period
of thirty (30) working days .	During the
probationary period the employee shal 1 be entitled
to all. rights and privileges of thi s Agreement except where specif ical ly excluded , and during the probat i onary period the empl oyee may be laid off without reference to seniority. A probat.i onary employee discharged sha.I1 have no right to the gri evance procedure i n respect of such di scharge . After completion of the said probat i onary per i od , seni ori ty shal 1 be establ i shed f rorn the date the employee first entered the service of the Corporati on.
b)	For the purpose of seniority the length of service as shown on the Corporat i on ' s records shall be the deter mi i-ii. nq factor.
c)
d)
e)
Seniority shall be on a plant-wide basis,
A list showing seniority of service shal 3. be forwarded to the Union off ire in January and July of each year , along with an updated 1 i st o f addresses and phone numbers as suppl led by the
employees.	•	/
In matters of filling new positions and vacancies,
the Corporat i on agrees that seniority wi 11. be the determining factor, provided the employee has the qualifications and ability to perf arm the regular duties of the job .
1 1.02
10
LAYOFF AND RECALL
I
a)
ta)
c )
d)
e)
f )
In the matter of a 1 ay off , the employee with the least seniority will be laid off -first.	t
Recalls will be in the reverse order of layoff.
No new employees will be hired while there are avai1ab1e emp1oyees 1aid of f who are qualifi ed to perform the work.
Employees who have been laid off due to lack of w o r k s h a 1 1. r e t a i n a. n d continue t o a c c u m u late seniority for a period of ten (10) consecutive months.
Two lists of recall and layoff reports will be supplied to the Chief Steward.
Subject to the except! ons contained in paragraph
(g) below, all. employees, with the exception of probat i on ary empl oyees as defined in Article 11 .01 (a) who at-e to he laid off and who are subject to r EC all to work:	shal 1 he enti tl ed ta two (2) days
notice before J ayof f or two (2) days pay in 1 isu of such not i ce,
Paragraph (f ) above shal 1 not. app 1 y to emp 1 oyees who are engaged for work on a short term basis for peat:: product, i on periods unless and	until an
employee hi red on a short term basi s works a total of forty-five	(45) consecutive shifts
u-ii nterrupted by layoff or unexcused absence (said total to include t h e p r ob a t .i. on ar y per i od as defined in Article 11.01	(a). The aforesaid
employees who are to be laid of f who are subject t o recal .1 to war k shal I. he entitled to one ( 1 ),.. clays not ice before layoff or one (1) day’s pay in' 1 i eu of such not. ice. When such an emp 1 oyse has worked a total of forty-five (45) consecutive shifts as aforesaid , the provi si ons o-f pat-agraph (a) above shall apply thereafter.
Any deviation from the above-mentioned procedure regarding layoffs and recalls will b e car-r-i ed out following consul tat i on and with the agreement of the Union, and wi 11 be subject to Article 3 and 10 in this
collective agreement.
1 1,04
11
The seniority of an employee shall be considered
broken, all rights tort sited and there shall be no
obligation to rehire, when an employee:	•
a)	v o luntarily lea v e s the s e r v i c e o t t: h e C o r p o r a t i o n or is dismissed tor just cause;
b)	tails to return to work within two (2) days at ter being telephoned or notit led by registered letter t o t h e i r las t given a d cl r e s s o n the C o r p a r a t i o n record. It is the responsibility ot the employee to keep the Corporation and the Union informed at all times of any changes in their address and telephone number,
'?
c)	' has been laid off for more than ten (10)
consecutive months;
d)	rejects an offer of work in response to a recall notice following a layoff;
e)	is absent from work on more than two (2) occasions for two (2) days or more in a one year period without notifying the Corporation, in which case the employee shall be considered to have resigned,
f)	engages in other gainful employment while on sick 3. e a v e o r c a m p e n s a t i o n ,
TRANSFER CUT OF BARGAINING UNIT
a)	No ernp 1 oyee shall be transf erred toa position outside Of the bargaining unit without their consent. An employee who accepts a position outside of the bargaining unit will continue! a accumu late sen i. or i t. y f 0 r a t we 1 ve (12) month period. An employee who returns to the bargaini ng unit within this twelve (12) month period wi 1 1 he credited with seni ori ty accumu). ated to date and wil 1 be classified as process 1 ah our .
b)	The Corporation wi 11 deduct and remit to the Union the at-t-ears of Union dues for this employee for this period o-f time within two (2) months of their return to the hat-gaining uni t .
c)	An emp 1 oyee will only be al lowed to return to the bargaining unit once, and f urther , it must be within this 12 month period.
d)	An emp 1 oyee terminated whi 1 e in a posi ti on outsi de the bargai ni ng unit wi 11 not. be able to return to the bargaining unit nor will the employee have access to the grievance or arbitration procedure.
TEMPORARY TRANSFER
a)
Due to f 1 Lie t uat i on s in f i s h r e c e i p t s wh i c h rI o c s s s i tate a temporary increase at- decrease -from one or more groups, as def i ned bel ow , the transfer
of empLoyeeswil. 1 be by seniority. The juni or employee will be transf erred provi di nq they ca.n perform the work satis-f actori 1 y. An employee who has been transferred wi I. 1 be requi red to return to the job from which they were transferred when work becomes avai 1 abl e on the job .
The groups referred to in Art.i. cle 11.05 (a) above are as follows;
Processing and Pre-Processing Cool room
Freish Recei. ving and Repack Ki tchen and Grading Room Dr-y Storage Cold Storage Q u a 1 i t y Con t r a ].
Mai ntenance
c) Where it is necessary to secure workers at notice of less than two (2) days t o fill temporary positions because of illness, accident, extra vacat i on,	bereavement	leave	or leave of absence
(of two	(2) days or	less),	the Corporation, if
unab I. e to make contact with the seni or eligible employee,	may recall	the next	eligible senior
employee	and so on	down	the	list until the
temporary vacancy is filled. Employees recalled under such circumstances shall retain the job to which they are appointed until replaced by the employee with whom the Corporation was unable to communicate with .	When replaced by the more
seni or emp 1 oyee, then the junior recalled employee will be on immediate layoff and the laid off junior employee and the employee filling the temporary vacancy will not be guaranteed the forty (40) hour work: week: referred to in At-title 18.01 (a). The Corporation agrees a Union executive officer, or in their absence a shop steward, will be present and will record the name (s) of the employee (s) call ed and the time of day they were called to verify the call-in was by order of seniority.
1
d) A temporary assignment shall be one of thirty (30) cal endar days or less, or a temporary assignment created because of sickness, vacation, accident or approved leave of absence. After the thirty (30) calendar days the Corporation and the Union shall meet and discuss whether the temporary assignment shauld be extended or if the job classification should b e posted.	If the Union and the
Corporation fail to agree whether the job should be posted it will be subject to Article 9 and 10.
11.06 SW I_FT.CHANGES
Should it be necessary to make sh.i -f t changes , the
procedure wi 11 be:
a)	requests -for such changes will be dealt w i t h on a senior it y basi s;
b)	si-iould no emp 1 oyeewish to make a shift change, the emp 1 oyee with the least seniority on the shift where the shortage of work occurred must accept the shi f t change.
ARTJCLE..12._r.J0E.TRANSFERS
12.01	a) Employees transferred temporari 1 y at the request
of the Corporal i on to jobs havinga. 1 ower wage rate shall continue to receive the rate paid for their regul ar job .
b)	Employees transferred temporarily at the request
o f the Corporal ion to jobs having a higher wage rate shall receive the higher wage rate.
0BIIQL£_i3_z_!l9g._E,QSIlNG	_	...
13.01	Al. .1 permanent job vacancies or newly created jobs
shall., within two (2) working days of such Permanent job vacancy or newly created job becoming available, be posted on the plant bul 1 eti n board f o three (3) wOrki.ng days. During this time emp 1 oyees who have completed the probationary period of empl. oyment may make appl ication for transfer to such jobs. Seniority wi 1 1 be the determining factor, provided the employee has the qualifications and ability to perform the regul ar duties of the jots.
14
ARTI CL E 14 _ DI.SCH ARGE J3LJ SFENSI ON .AND . D .ISC I PL INE
14,01	When an employee other than a probationary employee has
been d i sm i s s e d or su s p en d ed w i t hi out n o t i c s , hi e s h a. ]. .1. have the right to interview his Shop Steward -for a reasonable period of time before leaving the plant premises. A claim by an employee that he has be tin unjustly discharged or suspended from his employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of his	grievance is lodged with the	Plant
Superintendent or his designate within ten (10) days after the employee was suspended or ceased to work for the Corporation. >
Such special grievances may be settl ed by conf i rming M an ag e m e n t's a c t i o n in d i smi s s i n g or sus p e n d i n q t h e employee or by reinstating the employee with full, compensat i on for t i me 1 ost , or by any other arrangement which is j ust and equitable in the opinion of the parti es to thi s agreement .
14.02
An employee shall. be notified in writing by the
empl oyer wi tn a c 0 P y to the secretary of the Union or the department steward as t o t.we reasons for the discharge or suspension, an _d the Length of the suspension. Such noti ce shal 1 be given prior to the empl oyee 1 eavi ng the PI ant .
l'n order to ensure that discipline throughout the plant is applied in a fair and even-handed manner, the Corporation shall use the following guidelines for si milar offenses, recognizing that some offenses may result in immediate suspension or dismissal:
a)	verbal warning h) written warning
c)	a suspensi on or suspensions in line wi th the severity of the case
d)	termination
1 4.04
1 4.05
1 4.06
Two (2) copies of discipline reports wi 11 be suppl i ed to the Chief Steward .
Disciplinary memos will be on the employee’s file for a pet-i ad of one (1) year.	After one (1) y e a r of no J
further infractions, the disciplinary memos shall be removed from the empl oyee’ s f i 1 e.
An employee shall have the right to have a steward present at any discussion with supervi sory personnel which is the basis of disciplinary action. Thi s shal 1 only apply if a steward is in the plant at the time.
14.07	An empl. oyee, i mmedi atel y upon request , wi 11 have access
ta review their personnel record on their own time, in
the personnel office during office hours.
14 . OS
14,09
Any disagreement as to the accuracy of information c o n t a i n e d i n t. h e f i 1 e will tie di s c: u s s e d w i t h t h e P1 a n t Superintendent, It it is found that information is i ncorrect, the appr apr i ate cha.nges wi 1 1 be made and shall become part of the employee's record. All di sci pi i nary reports placed in the files must. have a corresponding copy given to the employee involved and two copies given to the Chief Steward,
The employee shall be notified in writing by the employer, wi th full disclosure of the reasons, grounds f cl r action and/or penal, ty , with a copy to the secretary of t h e Un i c i n .
ARTJCLE 15_r„-UNIF0RMS ANID.SUPPLIES
15.0 1
1 5.02 15.03
15 • 04
1 5.06
15.07
The Corporal: i on wi 1 1 suppl y safety rubber boots (nonskid), uni forms , hai rnets, bump caps, aprons, knives, steels, sharpen! ng stones, and g 1 oves to t h e ernpl oyees , Freezer room, shipping , fresh receiving , and repack to be suppl i ed with suitable apparel, and wi nter boots , al 1 suitable for 20 F. bel ow zero . Thi s apparel. will remain the property of the Corporation and wi 11 be left on the Corporati onpremi ses at the completion of the working day.
Locks and lockers will be provided for each long term employee and will be assigned according to seniority.
A deposit of $10,00 for- rubber safety boots shall be deducted f rom the employee's pay. Rep 1 acement of rubber safety boots f or reasons other than wear and tear whereby the old rubber boots are returned to the supply room, shal 1 he assessed against the empl oyee at the rate of $10.00 per pair for rubber safety boots . In the event of an employee leaving the Corporation, the rubber safety boots become the property of the employee,
Emp 1 oyees shall be responsible for al 1 suppl i. es issued to them. A price list wi 11 be posted at the beginning of the contract showing cart prices of all supplies. The cost price waul d be the amount deducted from an employee's cheque for replacement of supplies other than for normal wear and teat-,
The Corporation will suppl y beard nets, and winter boots for employees working on the tunnels, if
necessary.
Mechanical and electrical staff with more than si:; (6) months seniority who purchase safety footwear, shall be
rei mbursed f if ty dol 1 ars ($50.00) toward such purchases
and/or repairs in each year of the Collective Agreement, upon submitting their receipts t o the Carporat i on.
£BII£LE_16_-_ GENERAL^
' >
a 1 e v e o f a ta s e n c e Uni on	meeti ngs and
conventions. Time so granted does not at-feet the emp 1 oyee ■’ s vacat i on per i od nor sen i ori ty .	The
Union will give the Corporation one (1) week’s notice of such lea v e of a ta s e n c e .	R e q u. e s t f o r
leave of absence must be made in writing,
b)	The Corporation may grant leave of absence without
■ pay up	to one (1) year to any employee for'a
legitimate personal _reason. To be valid, every ;	application must	be	submitted in	writing	and
approved by the Corporation in writing. An employee on a valid leave of absence shall retain their accumulated seniority and earn additional seniority to a maximum of two (2) months,
c)	Leave	o f absence	o f	up t 0 o n e (1)	year wi 1 I.	be
granted	without	pay	tO a maximum	of twO	(2)
emp 1 oyees at any one ti me when t-quested by the International Union for the purpose of f u.ll time emp 1 oymen t with the Union.	Dur i ng this p e r i ad
seniority will continue to accumulate.	Upon
return -f ram such 1 save of absence , wOrk similar to that which the employee last did wi 1 I. be provided.
The 1 save of absence cl ause as out 1 i ned above cannot be used to avoi d 1 osi ng seni or i ty as provided in Article
1 1	.03 (c) in the Collective Agreement.
16.02	TECHNOLOG I CAL CHANGE
In the event of a technol ogi cal change, the provi si ons of the Canada Labour Code wi 11 apply.
16.03	NEW MACHINERY
In the event that new machinery should be brought in
creating new classifications and jobs , wages and c 1 assi f i cat i ons for such shal 1 be negotiated with the Union immediately.
17
16.04	SUPERVISORS WORKING
Far eiiien an d f or el ad ies sustained way, per-form in the bargaining unit,
a)	In cases of instructing employees; and
b)	when as a result o-f sudden sickness or accident there are no employees available to perform the wor k .
16.05
1 6.06
1 6.07
NO D I SCR IMI NAT I ON	. .	,
The Corporation and the Union, and all employees covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement shall adhere to the provisions of the Manitoba Human Rights Act .	"
___ f .	'	'	'
Employees will be allowed maternity/paternity leave in accordance with Division V.l Section 59 of the Canada Labour Code Part III.
Where mandatory provisions of any statute enacted by the Government of Canada are more beneficial to an employee than the provisions contained in this collective agreement, the said statutory provisions shall be deemed to supersede the provisions of the collective agreement.
• ]
/ T i? &
S'
ART]C LE_17 _-_HEALTH	SAFETY
17.01	The Un i on and the Cot-pot-at i on shal 1 take al I. reasonable
steps in order to promote and improve the heal.th and safety practi ces.	Additionally, the parties will cooperate in the	application and enforcement of
reasonable heal th and safety rules and practices, as published and posted by the PI ant Management arid the Health and Safety Committee.
17.02	The Oorporat i on and al 1 empl oyees shal 1 comply wi th al .1
applicable Federal health and safety laws	and
regulations. Nothi ng precl udes the Oorporat i on and the Union from mutual. 1 y agreei ng on a safety and heal th procedure and /or practice which, in their opinion, woul d provide a greater measure of safety and health f or empl oyees than provi ded for in the Federal 1 aw Deregulations.
18
1 7.04
1 7.05
1 7.06
1 7.07
17.08
17,08
There shall be established a health and safety committee composed of not more than five (5) representatives each from the Union and the Corporation, Any meeting convened by the committee must include equal representation from each party and shall be attended by a minimum of two (2) representatives from each party. The health and safety committee shall hold meetings at least once per month, or more frequently if necessary for the purpose of considering, monitoring, T.nsRscti ng, investigating, reviewing and improving health and safety conditions and practices. Minutes shall be taken of all meetings; and copies shall be' sent to the Corporation and the Un i on .
Union members of the health and sa-f:ety committee shall, be entitled t 0 reasonab 1 e t i rncof f from wor k with no loss of seniority or earnings if approved by the Corporation t o attend educati onal coursesan d seminars for instruction and upgrading On heal th and saf ety matters.
/ ' /
Time spent by members of the committee in the course of he i-t- duties as approved by the Corporati on sHa.11 be consi dered as t i me war ked .
The Corporati on shall, provide the memlbers of the health and saf et y committee wi th a summary of each accident ,
or occurrence of an occupational disease that occurred at the workplace during the previous month.	This
summary will be provided at the monthly safety and heal th meeti ngs .
The Corporati on agrees the Union shal 1 have the t-i ght to elect or appoint the Union committee members to the health and safety cornmi tt.ee „ The Un i on shall notify the Corporati an in writing of the names of each representative.
Every three (3) months a plant i nspect i on wi I. 1 be cat-r i ed out by the safety committee. The i nspect i on team will be 1 imited to two (2) Union members and t wo (2 ) Management members .
There shall be no consuming of food or beverages nor smoking in the plant except in the cafeteria.
article 1 8.01
1 8.02 1 8.03
1 8.0 4
1 8.05 1 8.06
19
SCHEDULE_“A"
18_ UOU RS - OF WORK:_ANp_0_\ZER T.I ME
a.) A1 I. employees covered by this agreement shal I. be guaranteed a fart.v (40) hour week based on f i ve (5) consecuti vp eightr" <8) hour days Monday to Friday inclusive, with time and one-half paid for any ti me worked over and above eight (8 ) hours i r-i a.r-iy one (1) day,, or after forty (40) hours in any week.
b> The guarantee set out in 18.01 above shalln o t apply tO employees engaged f or wOrk on a sn on term basis for* peal:: product! on per i ods uni ess an emp 1 oyee h i red on a short term basis has cornpl eted forty-five (45) consecut i ve shifts uninterrupted by layoff or unex cused absence (said total to include the probationary period as defined in Article 11,01	a). When such an emp .1 oyee has
worked the forty-five (45) consecutive shifts aforementioned, the guarantee referred to in subparagraph (a) above shad 1 appl y thereat ter .
Work perf armed on any Sunday rate of doubl e the empl oyee’s
■■■■ i- i ' U-'
s ha 1 1' be paid for at:, normal rate of pay.
the
Empl oyees required to work beyond the regul ar hours i n any day shal 1 be compensated at the rate of ti me and one-hal f the regul ar rate r o r the ri rst tw£^. (2) hours _ of overt i me , and double the regular rate thereafter, dji
Empl oyees requi red to work overtime on Saturdays shal 1 be compensated a t therate of time and one-hal f the regular rate for the first pix (6) hours and double the regul ar rate thereafter .
Emp 1 oyees wor k i ng any portin n of ir teen (15) minutes over regular time will be guaranteed ifteen (15) minutes pay at time and one-half the regul ar rate .
Employees working any portion of fifteen (15) to thirty (30) minutes wi 11 be guaranteed thi rty (30) mi ncites pay at time and one-half the regular rate. Al 1 overtime must be authori red and the employee time card initialled by the respective supervisor the same day that the overtime occurs.
20
18.07
1 8.08
1 8.09 18.1 0
18.11
18.12
No employees will be required to work more than two and one-ha1f (2 1/2) hours without a coffee or lunch break. Over t i me is .i n e 1 ud ed i n t. h e provisi on s of t h i s c 1 ause .
Where the Corporation requests overtime be worked, such request shall be made on the previous day; when this is not done and the request is made on the date on which overtime is to be worked, employees working over ten (10) hours shall be furnished with supper to a maximum of $-4.00 or paid $4.00 at the employee's choice. The meal payment would be included in the following week's pay cheque.
oyd
Two (2) rest, periods of fifteen (15) minutes each shall be granted for each work day of eight (8) hours.
The CO rp 0 r a t i or-i will grant the employees a five (5) minute per-i od during 'which time they wi.11 c1ear-i up. This wi 11 be the last five (5) minutes of their shift .
When breakdowns occur , such as power f a.i. 1 lire, employees shal 1 be ent.i tied to their regular coffee breaks.
BANKED OVERT I ME
Employees	may	bank	any overtime pay	with the
Cur-pot-at i on for -future use during vacation pet-i ads , Christmas	time, or	approved 1 save of absence.	_	(
Emp 1 oyees must .i nf arm thei r f oreinan of thei r intent i ons Lt / I (i.e. whether they wi sh to bank or be Paid for all Or part, of their overtime! prior to the end of the week in whi ch the overt i me i s wor ked . Ban ked overt! me must r-tot be carried over from one year to the next . Outstanding banked o ve rt i me wi 11 be paid on n ■ c ■ m n ■ r - 31 st of e a c h year .
NOTE:	The Cor porat ii on ’ i5a not able at this time to
camp 1 v' with mis cl ause, but shall endeavour at the ear 1 i est possi b 1 e t. i me to implement a 5ystem t o comply wi th Cl ause 18 . 12.
18.13	WAGE!;
An employee is entitled to be paid for services rendered at the rate of pay specified in Article 19 attached hereto and farming Part of this Agreement □
18.14	Payday sha.11 be weekly and each employee shal I. be provided wi th an i temi zed statement of his wages and deductions, including total earnings to date and total i ncome tax to date.
IS.15	Any employee who at the time of the signing of this
Ag reernen t i s r ec e i vi n q a h i g h er r a.t. e or b en ef i t s t h an those specified shall not have his wage scale or benefits reduced. An employee’s rate of pay as it was at the time of	signing this agreement shall be
increased by the negotiated increases in the rate of
pay.
18,16	When an error in excess of ten dollars ($10,00) is made;
on an employee’s pay cheque, the Corporation will issue a new cheque on the same day to rectify the error. When there is an adjustment on an employee’s pay stub, the employee will receive a separate itemised pay stub out 1 i. ni ng the adjustment ,
£EREAyEMENI__LEAVE
18.17
For the purpose of this clause, immediate family is defined a s f at her, mo ther, s t ep f ath er, s tep mot h er, brother , sister , mot.her-i n-1 aw, f ather-in-j aw , spouse, child, common-law spouse, grandchild, or wards* of the emp1oyee,
a)	Where a member of their immediate family dies, an ’ employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave for the purpose of attending services for a period o f up to four (4) consecut i ve work i ng days and not exceeding the day following the funeral, but in all cases the bereavement leave will include the W'i!'
v .
day of the funeral. During such a period the employee shal 1... be paid for those days which were not regularly scheduled days of rest for that employee.
b) An employee is entitled to a special. 1 eavewith pay up to a max i mum of one (1) day, for the purposes of attend! ng servi ces in the event of the death of the employee’s aunt , uncle, grandparent, son-i n-l aw ,	daughter-in-law, si ster-i n-l aw ,
brother--! n-law, nieces and nephews, or a relative permanently residing in the employee’s household or wi th whom the empl oyee permanent 1 v resi des .
c ) It is r (2 c o g n i z e d b y t h e p a r t i e s t h a t t h e circ u m s t a nee s w h i ch c a 11 for 1 e a v e i n r e s p e c t o -f b e r e a v e m e n t a r e b a s e d o n i n d i v i d u a 1 c i r c u m s t a n c e s „
0 n r e q u e s t., t h e C o r p o r a t i o n m a y , a -f t e r c o n s i d e r i n g the par t i cu 1 ar c i rcu.mstances involved , grant 1 eave with or without pay tor a period greater than that provided tor in clause 18.17 (a) and (b).
d >	The	Cor por at ion may request	some ver i t i c: at i on ot
t h e	d e a t h a n d r e .1 a t i o n ship	t o e m p .1. o y e e b e t o r e
hono u r i n g p a y c 1 a im in questi o n a b 1 e c a s e s .
#For the	pur p o s e of t. hi i s An t icle, " W a rd" me a n s a p e r s o n w h o i s
with o u t	tul 1	1 o g a 1	capaci t y or is o t h e r w i se	incap a b le o t m a n a g i n g
his own affairs, and whose person, property or rights are under the protection ot another person known as a guardian.
JURY JBUTY
IS.18	Where an employee is called and serves as a juror or a
witness, provided it is not in their own defense, the-!
Corpar-'at i on will make up the cli t terence between thei r jury pay or witness tees and the employee's regular ; v average hourly earnings tor such periods ot jury duty ' or time they serve as a witness as tall within the norma1 wor k d a y.
Where an emp loyeeis call, ed tor jury duty at- as a witness other than in hi s own clef enss , and where he is not required to be present to tulti 1 such duti es, the employee wi 1 1 repot-t tor work i n the usual manner- .
EMERGENCY CALL-IN
19
a)	An employee who has lett. the premises ot the Corporation at ter completion ot the employee's s c, o d „ i o d s h i f t and who is cal led for work, shal. 1 be paid one and one-half <1 1/2)	times the
employee's regul ar hourly rate for al. 1 hOMrs worked on recal I up to the; starting time of their scheduled shift, but in any event , the employee shall be paid for not 1 es;% than four (4) hours at one and one-hal f (1	1/2) times the employee's
regul at- hourl y t-ate .
b) An employee called in to work:, as in (a) above, o n a Sunday, will be paid at double the regulathi our ly rate.
I
\
A R11C L E _ 1.9 _- JOE C L ASSjFI CAT ID NS AN D WAGE RAT ES
Cl	F LQ.AT I o N_     _____________
F i 1 1 e t e r s General 1 abour Seasonal I. abour
(less than 45 consecutive shifts) H i g h Reach Truek Op erat or
May 1
...1990.,
12.45
1 0 . .1 7
12,40
May 1
...1991.
1295.0 12.37 1 0.1 7
12.90
May 1
..1992...
13,45
j O fQ *7
10.1 7 13,40
The following premiums will apply only for actual hours worked;
Lead Wand I ncr emen t Freezer premium F-i 11 eti ng machine operator •Seal .i ng mach i ne operator Spiral freezer operator Splitting machine operator Hand f i 11 eter Shipping and receiving
.. 60 . 48 . 20 „ 20 , 20 n 20
. 39
MAINTENANCE:
Assistant Mechanic (1)
Assistant Mechanic (2)
Industrial Mechanic (1)
Industrial Mechanic (2)
Industrial Mechanic (3)
Industrial Mechanic (4)
Certified Mechanic
Electrical
Shift Premiums:
3:30 to 12: 00 midnight
(8 hr s h i f t and 40 hr week guarantee) 1 0:30 p . m. to 7: 00 am.
(8 hr shift and 40 hr week guarantee)
12.37
12,87
13.50
14.50 15.97 16,24
1 6.83
18.02
43
24
S C H E D U LJEJ MB
article.
2 0,01
: u. uy
L Z „VAC AT IO N WI T H PAY
The vacation period is -from January December 31st.
1st thrOuqh
The Corporal: i on agrees to issue separate itemised cheques -for empl. oyee's vacation pay. Bef are I. eavi ng for their vacation, employees sha.l I. be entitled to their vacation pay for the portion of their vacation period upon which they are embarking.
2 u □ u,
a)	Prior to the first day of February of each year, the Corporation shall post a listing of employees w ho are entitled t. o v a cation s d u r i n g t h a t y e a r . This procedure is applicable to employees who are on layoff during this period of time.
b)	Within a	per i ad of one ( 1 ) month	after this I. i st
has been	posted,	each emp 1 oyee	will.	record h i s
preferred	period of	vacation on the said	I. i st .
c)	On orbefo r e the	1st of a p r i i ,	the	Corporation
wi 11 review the vacation preferences requested by
the employees. If production requirements so permit, each emp 1 oyee wi 1 1 be authorized to take his vacation in accordance** i t h hi s preference , and shall be so noti f i ed on or before the said
d .a t e.
d)	If the Corporation does not author i ze an employee
to take their vacati on during the employee's preference vacation period, such employee will be so notified before the 1st of April..	The
Corporation agrees t o review with the Union the reasons why an emp 1 oyee' s vacati on preference was denied , if requested to do so. Second choi. ce to be by way of seni ori ty.
e)	It is agreed that the final decision regarding the
authorization of an employee's vacation period remains with the Corporation.	However , once an
employee's vacation	preference has been
author i z ed , it wi .1.1 not be changed uni ess mutual 1 y agreed b y the employee and the Corporation,
20.05
20.06
Vacation^ earned during the current vacation period m u s t b s t a k e n cl u r i n g t. h e v a c a t ion p e r i. o d i m m e d i a t e 1 y •following that in which they a.re earned. Vacation periods can only be accumulated and carried over in special cases by mutual agreement between the Corporation and the employee,
I-f a statutory holiday falls within the employee’s vacation period, an additional day's holiday will be allowed or an additional day's pay in lieu thereof.
The length of vacation is established by seniority with the Corporation as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, and will be as fallowss
a!	An employee with less than one (1) complete year
of seniority as of January 1st of the calendar-year in which the vacation is to be taken, shall be entitled to one (1) day for each full month worked up to a maximum of ten (10) working days. Vacation pay shall be calculated at four percent <47.) of their total earnings.
b)	An emp 1 oyee with more than one ( 1 > compl eta year
of Seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken , shal I be entitled t o two (2) weeks vacation, Vacation pay shall be calcul.ated a t four percent (4%) of their total earnings.
c)	An emp 1 oyee wi th more than two (2) complete years of seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year i n wh i eh the vacat i on i s to be ta k en , shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation. Vacation pav shal 1 be calculated at si percent (67.) of thei r total, earnings.
d)	An emp 1 oyee w i t h more than nine (9) comp 1 ete years
of senior i ty a s of January 1st of .the calendar year in which the vacat .i. an is; t a b e t a k on, s h a 1 1 be entitled to for-w (4) weeks vacation . Vacation pay shall be calculated at eight percent (87.) of their total earni ngs.
e) An emp 1 oyee wi th mare than f ourteen (.14) complete years of seniority as of January 1st of the calendar year in which the vacation is to be taken, shall be entitled to five (5) weeks of vacati on. Vacation pay shal 1 be cal cul ated at ten percent (107.) of their total earnings;.
26
20.07
20.08
0,09
2 0-10
■f > E m p 1 o V' e e s	w i t h	m o r e t h a n	t w e n t. y t w o	(22) c o m p .1 e t s?
years at	seniority as	of January	1st. of the
calendar	year	in which	the vacation is to be
t aken , sha 11	be ent i t .1. ed to si	(6) weeks
vacation.	Vacant:ion pay shall be calculated at
twelve percent (127.) o-f their total earnings.
a)	Not w i t In st an d i n g	Cl.ause 20.06 where an	emp 1 oyee
with more than six (6) complete years of seniority works less than seventy-five percent (757) of the total regular working hours during the calendar y e a r p r seeding , t h e y s hi a 11 be entitled t o o n e (1) d ay ’ s vac at i. on	for eac:h month wor k ed	up t o a
maximum of ten (10) days. Vacation pay shall be calcul a t e d at s i x p e r c e n t (6 %) oft hi e i r t. o t a 1 earn i ngs.
b)	Notwithstanding	Clause 20.06 where an	employee
with less than six (6) complete years of seniority-works less than seventy-five percent (757.) of the total regular working hours during the calendar-year preceding, they shall be entitled to one (1) day’s vacation	for each month worked	up to a
maximum of ten (.10) days. Vacation pay shall be calcul a ted at four percent (47.) of their total
. e arnin g s.
c)	N o t w i t hst a n d i n y C1 au se 20.06, wh er e a n e mp1 aye e during the calendar year precedinq, works less than ninety-five percent. (957) of the regular worki ng hours avai 1 ab 1 e to that ernp 1 oyee , they shall be entitled to one (1) day’s vacation for each month worked up to a maximum of ten (10) days. Vacation pay shall be calculated at four percent (47.) of their total earnings.
For the purpose of cal cul at i ng a) , b ) and c) above , an emp 1 oyee absent f ram work due to certified illness, aril 1 ness in the employee’s fami 1 y necessitating his absence, or death in his fami i y , or jury duty, cr injury, or authorised leave of absence , cr ott-ier justifiable absence acceptabl e to the Corporation shal 1 be considered as having not been away from wor k duri ng any of those per i ods.
Shoul d an employee who is entitled to hoi i days resi qn havi ng g i ven due 1 egal notice or be discharged, said emp 1 ovee shal 1 recei vp pay i n 1 i eu of hoi idays at the applicable rates outlined in 20.06.
An employee’s vacation time will be i ncl uded in his length of qual i fyi ng set-vi ce .
Payment of wages in 1 i eu of vacation i s -apt permi tted .
28
21.04
21.05
21.06
1+ a holiday as set forth in Clause 21.01 falls on a day which is not a regular working day, the first wark in g d ay preceding the holiday or th e f i r s t wark i n g day thereafter shall be considered the holiday.
Where a holiday as set out in Clause 21.01 falls during the period of an employee’s vacation, the period of v a c a t. ion s hi all be 1 e n g t hened by one w a r k i n g d a y t o include the holiday, or the employee may bank the day to be taken off at a -future date at a time mutually agreed upon by both parties.
In a week in which a statutory hoiiday occurs, the regular hours per week will be reduced by one-fifth for each holiday therein. Employees required to work over the regulation work week shall be paid time and one-half for all extra hours worked.
27
SCHEDULE "C"
ARTICLE 21 - STATJJTORY HOLIDAYS
2 1.01
All employees shall be entitled to and shall be granted a holiday with pay on each of the general holidays listed below, and all other holidays proclaimed by the Government o-f Canada or the Government o-f the Province of Manitoba, i-f the employee has worked and received wages -for -fifteen (15) out. o-f the last thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the general holiday. Employees shall be paid the amount, of wages they would have normally earned during their regular shift, i. n c 1 ud i n g premi ums , w i t h out. being r e q u i red t o r en d er services for the f o 1.1 ow iriq g ener a 1 h o 1 i d ays;
New Year's Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Dominion Day Thanksg i vi ng Day
Good Friday Civic Holiday R e m e m b r a n c e D a y Victoria Day-Labour Day
21.02	An employee is not entitled to be paid for a statutory holiday on which he does not work when he is not entitled to wages for a?:, least fifteen (15) days during the thi rty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory' hoi i day, uni ess absent wi th the perrn.i ssi on of the Corporat i on in respect of absences relating to certified illness, illness in the employee'El family' necessitating the emp.1. oyee 's absence f t-am work , death in the employee’s family, jury duty or non-compensabl e i n jut-y.
21.03	If an emp 1 oyee wor ks on any of the above-named pai d statutory hoi i days , he wi 11 receive payment at the rate of time and one-hal f for the time actually worked by him in addi tion to receiving pay for such hoi iday.
29
SCHEDULE_"D"
ARTICLE 22 - BENEFIT PROGRAM
22,0 1	a) All. employees who are oi-i tl-ie Corporation's
seniority list, and who remain on the ser-iiority list, are initially el igibl e for coverage in the benef i t program 1 i sted bel ow „	•
b) New employees are initially eligible -for coverage in the benefit program listed below, when the Corporation records show that the employee has c o m pie t e d	f o r t y -- f i v e (45)	c o nsec u t i v e s h i f t s
uninterrupted by layoff or unexcused absence.
There i s an obligation upon the emp 1 oyee to comp lets all eligibility requirements of the insurer ar-icl maintain the same with the insurer in order to be eligible for , and the maintenance of, the benefits available under the provisions of the Cal. I. active Agreement.
ARTJCLE_23_z_PENSI0N_PLAN	.	;
23 01	a) The Superannuation FT an as outl i ned by the F'uhl i c
Service Super annual, i on Act whi. ch was placed into effect by the Cm-pot-at i on on behalf of the
emp I. oyees on April 1st, 1973 is to continue.
b) The Corporation agrees to suppl y all employees cOvered by the above F'ubl i c Servi ce Superannuati on Act, once yearl y be-Fore February 15th, a written ■ statement, showing the status of their p 1 an as of 7 December 31st of the previous year.
ARTIC L E _24	ES S AND DISLA BL| LJ.T.Y
24.01	a) No employee shal 1 be discharged, because of
sickness Or disability resulting from accident sustained whi 1 e per for mi ng Corporation duties. On returning to work, the employee shal. I receive their former position provi ded such employee is not adjudged incapable of psrf ormi ng their f ormer duties, in which case the Corporation will endeavour to find sui tabl e work .
b) An empl oyee shal 1 accumul ate sick leave credits at the rate of one and one-quarter (11/4) days per month for each month of continuous employment, curnul at i ve to a max i mum of one-hundred (100) days .
c)	W n e r e a n e m ploy e e w o r k s f i f t y p e r c e n t (5 0 7.) o r more of normal straight time hours in any month they shall receive sick leave credits for that month on a pro rata basis rounded to the nearest one q u a rter ( 1 / 4) .
that the Corporati an is sati sfi ed t h at the employee ’ s condi t.i on prevents them from carrying
out. their duties;
b) that the employee credi ts;
has the necessary sick leave
c) that a medical Corporat .i on , i ndividual three (3) foregoinq request a absence in emp1oyee’ s out their
presented to
t h e an
certificate is at their request, when ■’s absence because of sickness exceeds working days. Notwithstanding the the Corporation reserves the right to medical certificate in respect of any order to be propterly satisfied that, the condition prevents them from carrying duties. The Corporation undertakes to
utilize this provision with reasonable discretion;
d)	If an emp I. oyee becomes i 1 I. and cannot report for work, a message mus t be left on the Corporation’s sick phone (204 933-6606) or their supervi sor must he contacted no 1 ater than one and one-half (1 1/2) hours beyond the normal starting time of their shift. Upon return to duty the empl oyee i s required to report to their immediate supervi sor .
24.03
The Corporat .i. on employee tO appoi nted b Corporati on ex ami nati on. as o f April 30,1981
reserves the right
ta require an take a medical, examination by a physician
y the Corporati on. I n such caee, the will absorb the cost for such medi cal Th is cl ause wi 11 not app 1 y to emp 1 oyees
/J>J
?4.04	a) Any employee who is injured on the job and is sent
from the Plant for medical care, will be paid for t h e time I o s t for such treatment duri ng the shift
in which the injury eight (3) hours.
occurred, uptoa ma:.: i m u m
of
b) If any employee is unable to perform the wor k and
is instructed not to return to wOrk after treatment , he wi 11 be paid for the balance of the
sh i f t h our s
not wor ked , up to
max i mum of eight (8)
a
31
c >	S h o u. 1 d	a n e m p 1 o y e 0 be in j u. red w h i 1 e w o r k i n g
overtime, so seriously as to require immediate rn e d i c a .1 a 11 e n t ion, t h e e m p 1 o y e e s h a .11 r e c e i v e p a y m e n t a t the a p p lie a b 1 e r a t e -f o r t h e r e m a i n i n g h o u r s o f o v e r t. i m e w h i c h w o u ]. d h a v e b 0 e n w o r k e d i n t. hi e d e p a r t. m e n t where the injur y o c: c u r r e d .
d)	When any employee is injured at work so seriously as to require transportation, the Corporation agrees to provide or pay the cost 0+ transportation on the day injury occurs, between the Plant, hospital, and home.
ARIIQLE 25 - LIFE INSURANCE PLAN
25.01	Ef f ec t i ve J an u.ar y 1. , 1991 all el i g i b .1 e emp 1 oyees w i t hi less than si:-; (6) years seniority will be covered -for $ 2 C), 000 1 i f e insurance; emp 1 o y ees w i t h m ore t h a n s i (6) years seniority will be covered -for $30,000 life insurance. The Corporation shal 1 _..p.ay_. the premiums.
'	vv ( fh0
ARIICLE__26_-_DENIAL_PLAN
26.01	Effective October 1, 1990 all el i gible empl oyees shal 1 be covered by a dental plan .If laid off, dental
cover-age wi 1 1 be in effect up to the end of the month in whi ch the 1 ayoff occurred .
COVERAGE:	Routine 1007.
M a j o r	- 5 0 7„
7
Annual maximum is $1000 per person for combined routine and major. Deductible is $25.00 single and $50,00 family coverage.
The Corporati on shall pay for the ful 1 cost of single coverage and will, pay the cost of the family plan other than $ 15 , 00 per month which willbe deducted from the emp 1 oyees i n the f ami 1 y p 1 an .	., r r
A R11. C Ip E _ 2 Z J^XTEN D E D_ H E A L T H C A R E
27.01	Ef -f ecti ve January 1,	1991 all eligible employees will
b s co v e r e d tor e t e n d e d h e a 11 h care bens t .i t s .1. i s t e d b e 1 o w . The C o r p o r a t i o n w i .1 1 p a y the p r e m i u rn t o r t h e single coverage.
• ■ f ■ f i. ' r'
757. Prescription drugs	, .. -■
1007. S e m i - p r i v a t e h o s p i t a 1 c a r e and a m bul a nee
Deduct i b 1 e wi 11 be 1	. 00 f or si ng 1 e and $25 . (I)0 t □ r
family.	•
ARTICLE 28 -POST RETIREMENT HEALTHCARE COVERAGE
0.1.	The Corporation will make available a post retirement
healthcare plan as -follows:
a) Dental - 807. routine - 807. major
M a i m u rn coverage 500.00 per person per y e a r .
b ) Prescr i pt .i on drugs hospital room.
ambulance.
;emi ~pr i vate
All premiums will be paid by the retiree
Single:	$34.35
Marri ed:
Farni1y:
MTICLE_2 9_-_ TE^INATION__OF_ AGREEMENT
29.0 1	The Corporation and the Union agree that this Agreement
shall be effective from May 1, 1990 onto April 30, 1993 and thereafter from year to year unless written notice of intent to amend or terminate the Agreement is given by either party to the other party not more than sixty (60) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of any yearly period. Upon receipt of the Union’s or the Corporation’s amendments, the other party shall within five (5 ) days of receipt of said amendments commence collective bargaining with a view to the renewal or revision of this Agreement, or conclusion of a new collective labour agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed this 20th day of September, 1 99 0.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE CORPORATION:
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE
L ETT ER O FUN D ERSTAN D I N G
Dated; September 7,	1987
Renewed: September 20, 1990
During the contract period of May 1,	1990 to April 30,	.1993 the
tool allowance -for maintenance employees is a.s -follows:
1.	Each maintenance employee would receive a tool allowance of $100,, 00 in each year of the collective agreement. Receipts must accompany all claims for the tool allowance. This would be in effect until the end of the present contract.
2.	Vacation entitlement for maintenance employees will be the same as outlined for all employees in the contract.
LElQIR,i3^.UNDERSTANDING
Dated:	September 7,	19S7
Renewed :	S'ep t ernber 20,	1990
HEALTH
SAFETY DRAWS:
Employees, -following probation, who attain a perfect attendance and accident -free month will be eligible for a monthly safety and health draw. There will be three cash pr i z es a va i. 1 ab 1 e f ar a 1 .1 wino qua .1 i f y .
First prize dr-aw wi 11 be f or $ 100,00 Second prize draw will be for $75,00 . Third prize draw will be for $50,00
A11 el i g.1 b 1 e employees who have completed a full t we 1 ve months of perfect attendance and maintained twelve months of accident tree employment will be entered for an annua. 1 draw for $500.00 cash.