NATIVE RROTHRRHQnn OF RRTTTSH P.QLHMRI A
MASTER AGREEMENT
CANNERY. NETLOFT, REDUCTION. WATCHMEN 1989
PREAMBLE
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into between each of the undersigned Companies
severally as the party of the First Part, hereinafter referred to as the
Company (or operator), and the Native Brotherhood of British Columbia, the
Party of the Second Part, hereinafter referred to as the Brotherhood.
WHEREAS:	It is the intent and purpose of the Parties hereto that this agree-
ment is to provide orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and the Brotherhood, to secure a prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to eliminate interruptions of work and interferences with the proper operations of the Company's business, and to maintain mutually satisfactory working conditions, hours and wages for the employees covered by this Agreement and the Supplements hereto:
a)	Wage Supplement	\
b)	General Conditions Supplement
WITNESSETH:	The Parties hereto mutually agree with each other as follows:
ARTICLE! 1	- BROTHERHOOD RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company shall recognize the Brotherhood as the collective bargaining agent for all employees covered under the Supplement hereto, and who are engaged in a plant or section of a plant, for which the Brotherhood is certified as the bargaining agent.
1.02 The Company shall recognize a Shop Steward Committee designated by the Brotherhood members at a plant. The Shop Steward Committee shall consist of a representative from each of the departments covered under the Supplements hereto in the particular operation plus a Chief Shop Steward.
1.03 The Brotherhood shall advise the Company in writing of the names of members of the Shop Steward Committee.
1.04 When hiring help, the Company shall give preference to Brotherhood members. To facilitate application of this condition the Brotherhood shall, from time to time, submit to the Companies a list of unemployed Brotherhood members with details of their experience.
2
ARTICLE 2	- BROTHERHOOD MEMBERSHIP
2.01	Membership in the Brotherhood shall be on a voluntary basis.
2.02	Any employee who is not a member of the Brotherhood may be admitted into the Brotherhood on application and payment to the Brotherhood of such initiation fees as is provided by the constitution of the Brotherhood.
2.03	All employees who are now members of the Brotherhood and all employees who become members of the Brotherhood shall maintain their membership during the term of this Agreement as a condition of employment. Maintenance of membership as a condition of employment shall be restricted to the payment or cash offer of payment of dues.
2.04	Any employee shall have the right of withdrawing from the Brotherhood during the thirty (30) day period, April 30 to May 30 in any year, provided notification of intention to withdraw is given to the Brotherhood in writing during this period.
ARTICLE 3	- CHECK-OFF
3.01	All employees classified in this Agreement shall as a condition of employment sign an authorization to have deducted from their pay in each bi-weekly pay period on the payroll an amount equal to the bi-weekly dues of the Union or the membership duos of the Brotherhood, as the case may be. Such dues shall not include initiation fees or special assessments of any description.
3.01.1	A Native Employee who assigns dues to the Brotherhood shall not revoke that assignment except by notification in writing, to the Brotherhood, within the thirty (30) day period April 30 to May 30 in any year.
3.01.2	If any person seeking employment under the terms of this Agreement refuses to accept this condition of employment then such person shall not be hired.
3.02	An employee may, by written individual authorization to the Company have the initiation fee and up to a maximum of one year's arrears of Brotherhood dues deducted by the Company and forwarded to the Brotherhood. Assessments or fees of any description (other than initiation fees) will not be deducted by the Company, whether such are included on a dues voucher or submitted separately.
3.03 For all purposes of this Article, the employer may rely upon a certificate signed by the President or Secretary-Treasurer of the organization concerned as to the amount of membership dues according to the constitution of such organization.
3.04	The amount of monies deducted shall be remitted to the Brotherhood Headquarters during the four (4) week period following every second
3
bi-weekly payroll period, with the exception that in the case of any Native employees who have signed authorizations to pay dues to the Union, such deductions shall be remitted to Headquarters of the United Fishermen and Allied Workers' Union.
3.05	The Company remittance to the Headquarters of each organization shall be accompanied with a full list showing names of all employees for whom deductions have been made whether to the Union or Brotherhood and the individual amount of the deduction. Two (2) copies of such list shall also be given each month to the Chief Shop Steward in each Plant.
ARTICLE 4	- MUTUAL INTEREST
4.01 The Management and the operation of and the direction and promotion of working forces is vested exclusively in the management, provided, however, that this will not be used for purposes of discrimination against employees. The employer shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
4.02	The Company shall acquaint plant management with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and the Company's responsibilities thereunder. There shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint, or coercion exercised or practiced by the Company or by any of its representatives.
4.03	Just as the Shop Stewards have the right of protesting unfair practices by management with the view of correcting same, management has the equal right of protesting any practices of employees which hampers productivity and efficiency to the Shop Steward Committee in the interest of effecting a correction.
4.04	Neither the Company, superintendent in charge, or any agent or employee of the Company, nor the Brotherhood or any delegates of the Brotherhood, has the power or authority to change the provisions of this Agreement or the Supplementary Schedules hereto.
4.05	No employee covered by this Agreement shall be asked to make written or verbal agreements with the Company covering hours of work, wages, or working conditions during the term of this Agreement, unless such individual agreement is approved by the majority of the Brotherhood members in the plant and the Executive Board of the Brotherhood.
4.06	The principle of supervisory personnel (other than charge hands) not doing work coming within the duties of named classifications shall be recognized. At certain small operations or departments where it has been customary for foremen and foreladies to do bench and floor work as part of their duties, present practice shall continue. Any abuse of present practice in small operations or any use of supervisory personnel in large operations for bench and floor work, except in case of emergency or for instruction purposes, may be considered cause for grievances.
4
4.07	The Brotherhood agrees to support the requirements of the Company that all Brotherhood employees shall perform, to the best of their individual abilities, the assigned work as directed by the Company management and will make certain that all Shop Steward Committees are fully aware of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the employee’s responsibilities thereunder. Further, the Brotherhood recognizes the importance and need for high productivity on the part of the employees consistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and that all Shop Stewards, without assuming or being asked to assume any of the responsibilities which properly rest with management, will cooperate with management to this end.
4.08	There will be no Brotherhood activity during working hours except that which is necessary in connection with enforcement of this Agreement.
4.09	The Shop Steward Committee shall cooperate with and assist the management in the maintenance of Company fire, safety and sanitary regulations.
4.10 In conformity with the Workers' Compensation Act, a Safety Committee shall be organized and shall be comprised in part by employee representatives from and selected by the Shop Steward Committee.
4.11	At all plants a Bulletin Board shall be placed in a conspicuous place and the plant Shop Stewards shall be permitted to use same for posting Brotherhood notices.
ARTICLE 5	- SENIORITY
5.01	Fundamentally, rules respecting seniority are designed to provide to employees an equitable measure of security based on length of service with the Company.
5.02	Definitions
5.02.1	Regular Employees
a)	Employees shall be considered "Regular" employees after having completed their probationary period.
b)	Employees who have gained the status of regular shall have their service times computed from the time of hiring subject to the provisions of 5.04.3.
c)	Seniority	rights	of employees shall	be cancelled in	the event
they quit	the employ of the Company or are discharged	for just
cause.
d)	Seniority	rights	of regular employees	shall accumulate	from year
to year for each	Plant by department	or occupational	groups as
established by the Plant Seniority Plan.
5.02.2
5.02.3
5.03 5.03.1
5.03.2
5.03.3
5.03.4
5
Probationary Employees
I a)	New employees shall be considered "Probationary'1 for the
first 400 hours worked. During the probationary period, they must be available and report for all work as required. Accumulated hours toward seniority shall be cancelled in the event an employee is unavailable for work, quits, or is discharged, for just cause.
b) This probationary period is to afford the Company an opportunity to evaluate the employee's overall performance on the job and assess their capabilities to perform the work.
c)	Probationary employees who do not	establish	regular seniority
status by season's end will have	their names and total hours
worked carried forward to the following season.
d)	In any question raised upon termination	of a probationary
employee, the Brotherhood will	recognize	the difference in
assessment and criteria between probationary and regular employees.
Seasonal Employees
Employees who are not available for work except seasonally because of their attending school or other valid reasons acceptable to the Company shall be considered as "Seasonal" employees.
General Provisions Affecting Regular Seniority
Seniority rights of any employee shall be confined to the particular classification under which same is acquired except that when special cases arise they shall be decided by the management and Shop Steward Committee at the particular plant concerned, or should this prove impractical, by consultation between the Company and the Headquarters of the Brotherhood.
All hiring at the commencement of operations shall be on the basis of preferences to those employees who have the greatest length of service consistent with the provisions herein.
During the slack periods, employees with the greatest length of service at the plant in the department or occupational group concerned shall be given preference in lay-off and at the termination of such slack period shall be given preference in hiring, providing they are competent and willing to accept such work as is available.
Regular employees shall be called to work in their order of seniority whenever there is work available for them whether during or between major operating seasons. Prior to major operating seasons, employees should communicate with the Company on or about a specified date to advise of their availability for continued employment. The Company
6
shall nevertheless contact all employees whose names appear on the seniority list by telephone when work is available.	Employees who
cannot be contacted by telephone shall be notified by letter and if they fail to communicate promptly with the Company, their seniority rights shall be cancelled.
5.04	General Provisions Affecting Non-Regular Seniority
5.04.1	Lists of employees who have not qualified for regular seniority standing will be maintained by the Company in order of date employed. Revised copies of such lists will be made available to the Chief Shop Steward prior to the herring roe and salmon seasons of each year. Such seniority lists will form the basis for call-outs of probationary employees after all employees on the regular seniority list have been called out.
5.04.2	Seasonal employees will have their names carried forward on call-outs lists to the next season provided that they work to a specified date prior to Labour Day each salmon season and are available for work by a specified date at the beginning of the next salmon season, both dates to be named by the Company. These dates may vary at a plant dependent upon the department where the employees' name is listed.
5.04.3	Seasonal employees who become available full-time and therefore eligible for regular employee status will receive, provided they have worked 400 hours in total, such revised seniority standing at the end of the season in which they become available full-time, and their date of seniority would be the commencement of such current period of employment. Their names shall be placed on the regular seniority list immediately following the name of the last regular employee listed thereon and ahead of all probationary employees.
5.05	Job Vacancies
5.05.1	When openings for promotions or when vacancies for classified or preferential jobs occur, they shall be posted by the Company. The choice of employees to fill such positions shall be made on the basis of skill, ability and seniority with seniority to be the prime factor when skill and ability of candidates are equal. "Preferential" employment is defined, among other things, as those jobs preferred by senior employees.
5.05.2	Should any operation be expanded or new operations be commenced as part of an existing operation the Management of the plant concerned shall discuss with the Shop Steward Committee the method to be used in filling the job opportunities so created.
5.05.3	When jobs are posted in accordance with Article 5.05.1, the posting shall be done in a conspicuous place on a notice board provided exclusively for this purpose. Where possible, postings shall remain on the notice board for a minimum period of two weeks and be displayed at a time of the year or in season to enable all employees to
in
know that particular jobs are posted and applications are being solicited.
. 06 Plant Seniority Plans
5.06.1	In recognition of the differing problems which arise in separate plants on seniority and the desire of both Parties to have seniority applied in a way which is reasonable, fair and understandable, encouragement shall be given to the working out of plant seniority plans, and such plans when mutually agreed upon shall be considered as part of this Master Agreement. Such plant plans shall not necessarily set a precedent either for another plant or the Industry as a whole.
5.06.2	Meetings to discuss plant seniority plans either in the way of amendment of an existing plan or for drafting a plan of coverage for the plant (or portion of the plant) shall be held at the request of either management or Shop Steward Committee.
5.06.3	During discussion and negotiation of plant seniority plans, every effort shall be made by both parties, subject to proper consideration of overall problems, and to peculiar problems which may exist in the plant to include as many employees and classifications as possible in each seniority grouping to the end that as few seniority groupings as practicably possible are instituted.
5.06.4	During discussion of plant seniority plans the question of seniority determining the order of call-out for overtime work, should such problems exist in a plant, shall also be discussed. Call-out for overtime shall be on a basis equitable to the members of the regular crew, capable of doing the work required. Any unjustified deviation from this practice or any problem arising on overtime call-out shall be discussed between Shop Steward Committee and Management.
5.07	Plant Seniority Lists
5.07.1	The Company shall prepare and maintain seniority lists for each plant on the basis of the conditions as set forth in this article. The plant seniority lists shall provide the basis for lay-offs and hiring whether of a sporadic or seasonal nature, subject to the conditions of this article. The lists shall be amended as new employees qualify for seniority and as employees are dropped from seniority listing. Should mistakes or discrepancies occur in such lists, such mistakes or discrepancies shall be discussed between the Shop Steward Committee and the management with a view to correcting same.
5.07.2	The plant seniority lists shall be available to the Shop Steward committee or Headquarters of the Brotherhood upon request and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place in the plant.
8
5.08	Transfers
5.08.1	When an employee is transferred permanently from one group ok department or plant another, the employees' seniority shall also be immediately transferred.
5.08.2	In the case of temporary non-compulsory transfers from one group or department or plant to another, the employee's seniority will not be transferred until 400 hours have been worked in the operation into which the employee is transferred.
5.08.3	In the case of temporary non-compulsory transfers, the employee shall retain his or her seniority in the original group, department or plant. After qualifying the employee will also be listed on the seniority list of the group, department or plant transferred to with "temporary” being placed after the employee's name. An employee shall retain such temporary seniority listing only in the last group, department or plant, in which same was attained. Upon returning to the original group, department or plant, the employee's temporary listing shall be discontinued six months after return.
5.08.4	No employees shall be transferred from one plant to another without the employee's consent, except in the event that a specific classification is required and an employee in that classification can be spared from another operation within the Company, then the employee may be transferred without consent, provided the employee's seniority is retained in the original plant. In the case of such temporary compulsory transfers from one plant to another seniority will be immediately transferred.
5.08.5	The individual involved in such compulsory transfer may be returned to the employee's "Home Plant" as soon as the circumstances requiring the transfer have been overcome, and/or within a maximum period of six months from the time of transfer and/or at the end of the season. Compulsory transfers shall not subject the individual transferee to a lesser period of employment during the year than the employee would have received if not transferred.
5.09	Leave of Absence
5.09.1	Unless otherwise noted, provisions for leave of absence apply to regular employees only.
5.09.2	Seniority rights of employees to report to work arises from able to the Company. Absence for a period in excess of one
shall not be affected if inability sickness or from reasons accept-for reasons other than sickness, if week, must be covered under the
following leave of absence conditions.
5.09.3 Employees who for good absence shall be granted
and sufficient cause require a leave of same. Such leave of absence if granted,
9
shall be for a maximum period of one year except under unusual circumstances. There shall be no forfeiture of total seniority unless the employee concerned has not reported back for work by the final date of the leave of absence.
5.09.4	All leave of Absence, when granted or extended, shall be placed in writing with one copy to be provided to the Chief Shop Steward and one to be retained by the Company. Approved leaves shall list the starting date and expected return date and state the general reasons for the leave.
5.09.5	Time spent on non-medical leave of absence shall not be considered in the calculation of the employee's total seniority except when the total leave of absence in a year, commencing with the date of the first leave of absence in a 12 month period is for three months or less.
5.09.6	The Company may grant leave of absence to those employees who for reasons beyond their control cannot commence work on the date set, but who, nevertheless, wish to return to their jobs as soon as possible. Employees granted such leave of absence shall be placed first on the list for rehiring. Once they have recommenced their employment they shall return to their place on the seniority list as determined by their full service with the Company in the occupational group or department concerned.
5.09.7	The upgrading of skills and technical courses, whether related to an employee's classification or not, shall be deemed just and sufficient cause for the granting of a leave of absence without pay to regular employees. Such leave of absence will not exceed one
(1) year in length. An employee granted leave of absence under this article shall suffer no loss of seniority for such leave.
5.09.8	Appointment or election to a Brotherhood position shall be considered good and sufficient cause for granting leave of absence. Employees appointed or elected to a Brotherhood position shall suffer no loss of seniority and time spent on leave of absence shall be included in the calculation of total seniority. After one year's leave of absence the employee must apply for renewal of such leave of absence or seniority rights are cancelled.
5.09.9	A leave of absence will not be granted to probationary employees for reasons other than sickness or pregnancy. Seniority will not accumulate for time spent on sick or maternity leave by probationary employees. Maternity leaves of absence are not to exceed one year, except under special circumstances acceptable to the Company.
5.10	Resolution of Dispute
Any dispute in regard to Article 5, Seniority, which cannot be settled in discussions between management and the Shop Steward Committee at the plant
10
or between Headquarters of the Brotherhood and the Company, shall be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure herein.
ARTICLE 6	- WORKING CONDITIONS
6.01	Employees when not doing work covered by their own classifications shall do such work as instructed by management.
Relief Periods
6.02	A relief period of fifteen minutes in the morning and fifteen minutes in the afternoon shall. be allowed to all employees without pay deductions. Consideration should be given to advancing the first relief period of sections of a department in the event of an early call-out.
6.03 Should overtime be worked a similar rest period shall be allowed two (2) hours after commencement of overtime providing the work to be done cannot be completed in two and one half (2-1/2) hours or less.
6.04 Where there is a continuous shift operation, there shall be no interruption of production and there shall be no remuneration in lieu of relief periods.
6.05	If emergency conditions arise which are beyond the control of the Company, the management may vary the time at which the rest period is usually taken. Any abuse of this Article by either Party shall be subject to corrective action by the Shop Steward Committee and/or the management.
Meal Periods
6.06	No employee shall be required to work over five hours in any one shift without being relieved for meals except where by mutual consent between the employees and the Company management it is found desirable to extend this limitation to process small quantities of fish thus obviating the necessity of returning to work after the meal period.
6.07	Time and duration of meal periods shall be arrived at in consultation between the Shop Steward Committee and local management.
6.08 When, because of emergency reasons, a meal period less than one-half hour is given, employees shall be paid for such meal periods.
6.09	After four (4) hours' overtime have been worked following a supper break on weekdays, a one-half hour meal break shall be given without pay deduction if work is to continue after such break. The Company shall provide sandwiches and coffee without charge to those involved.
In no instance shall the work period be extended beyond four (4) hours without a break for the stated meal period with the exception that on the final day of processing in any particular week the meal period may be waived provided the work remaining can be completed in one-half hour or less.
6.10	In order that no interruption will ocjcur while the reduction plant is processing, it is agreed that relief periods and meal periods will be given on a staggered basis with individuals and the crew relieving each other during such periods.
Shift Arrangements:
Cannery, Netloft, and Reduction Plant
6.11	If it is the intention of management at any plant to institute night
and/or graveyard shifts, the management jjihall post, prior to commencement of processing, a schedule of the various alternative nights and/or graveyard shift arrangements contemplated during the season showing the precise regular hours (i.e. starting time,! lunch period, quitting time) of all such contemplated shifts. The method to be used in determining the calendar day of night shifts shall also bf posted.	The first day of the
week shall be Monday and the first shift of the day shall be the day shift.
Alternative shift arrangements and application of same shall be as follows:	i
6.12	A single night shift when the Company decides on instituting a two shift per twenty-four hours operation (i.e. two|twelve-hour shifts). Should the second shift commence processing earlier jfchan its appointed starting time, overtime at the multiple rate of time and|one-haIf shall be paid for all hours worked prior to 7:00 p.m. in accordance with Section 7.02.3.
6.13	An afternoon and graveyard shift when it is decided to have three shifts per twenty-four hours operation.
6.14	The Company may operate on the basis of either an afternoon shift or a graveyard shift in Conjunction with a day shift, thus having two shifts per twenty-four hours under the times as stated for the three shifts per twenty-four hour arrangement.
6.15	Where a continuous shift arrangement |is scheduled using vertical plate freezers, the Company may operate on | two "12-hour" shifts or three "8-hour" shifts.
Where a two "12-hour" shift arrangement is used, two 1/2-hour meal breaks shall be scheduled during each shift without pay. Where meal breaks and rest period are staggered for each shift by the Company to allow for continuous processing, a penalty equal to the straight time rate shall be paid for such meal breaks. The time taken for meal breaks shall not be included in the calculation of hours worked to determine payment for overtime,
Where a three "8-hour" shift arrangement is used, a 1/2-hour mealbreak shall be scheduled during each shift and employees shall be paid for same
•j
12
where work continues after such meal break. Meal breaks and rest periods may be staggered for each shift to allow continuous processing.
Employment on thawing tanks related to vertical Plate Freezer operations would be governed by this section.
6.15	In stating the starting times, meal periods and quitting times, of the permissible alternative shift arrangements, only one set of times may be established for each shift arrangement and there shall be no variation from such times when the various shifts are used.
Each day the Company will post the shift arrangements to be used the following day and once designated there shall be no change permitted. This restriction shall not apply to reduction operations.
6.17	The Company may employ monthly rated employees under the two ”12-hour'1 shifts per twenty-four hour operation arrangement while at the same time employing hourly rated workers under the three shift per twenty-four hour operation arrangement.
6.18	The Company shall not be required to apply the same shift arrangement
to all sections of what is considered as a full cannery OK reduction operation at the same time, and for purposes of interpreting this section, the cannery may be considered as having three sections only, i.e. 1) warehouse, 2) tally dock, 3) all other operations connected with the cannery. The reduction plant may be considered as having three sections only, i.e.	1) tally dock, 2) acidulation and/or evaporation plant, 3)
all other operations connected with the reduction plant.
6.19	Engineer, Firemen and Watchmen:
Management at each plant in consultation with the employees concerned shall arrange and post a schedule of shifts for such employees.
6.20	A staggered system of allowing weekly rest days, or alternatively a system of allowing other days in lieu of Saturday and Sunday as the weekly days of rest may be instituted, such system to be discussed and arranged in consultation between management and employees concerned. The principle of giving consecutive days of rest shall be followed.
6.21	Ceasing of Operations
The Company reserves the right to cease operations at any time when deemed necessary. Forty-eight hours notice to span two straight time days shall be given. When posted in a conspicuous place in the plant, such notice shall serve as individual notice for all employees including those away on authorized absence.
13
ARTICLE 7	- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Cannery, Net (except those with no controls of hours). Reduction Plant and Vatchmen:
Regular Quitting Time:
7.01 The regulation quitting time of the day shift shall be 5:00 p.m, with one hour lunch period; 4:45 p.m. with a three-quarters of an hour lunch period; 4:30 p.m. with a half-hour lunch period; 4:00 p.m. with no lunch period.
Overtime Conditions
7.02	Overtime	at the	multiple	rate	of	TIME AND ONE-HALF shall be paid in
the following instances except as provided for in Section 6.20.
7.02.1	For the first three (3) hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours and/or after the regular quitting time on Monday to Friday inclusive.
7.02.2	For the first eight (8) hours worked prior to the regular quitting time on Saturday.
7.02.3	For all hours worked prior to 7:00 a.m.	(i.e. one hour prior to
the	regular	starting	time	of	a shift, the 7:00 a.m. as stated
being applicable to the day shift) in the event of an early call-out (see 7.04).
7.03	Overtime at the multiple rate of DOUBLE TIME shall be paid in the following instances except as provided for in 6.20.
7.03.1	After three (3) hours' overtime have been worked Monday to Friday.
7.03.2	For all hours worked after eight houjrs or after the regular quitting time on Saturday.
7.03.3	For all hours worked on Sunday.
NOTE:	For overtime conditions or Statutory Holidays refer to
Article 9.
General Conditions - Hours of Work
7.04 In the case of early call-out on weekdays, hours prior to 7:00 a.m. shall be paid for as overtime on the following basis: for the hours worked between 4:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. at time and one-half, for hours prior to 4:00 a.m. at double time.
Where additional overtime hours are 'worked after eight (8) hours of straight time, overtime pay shall be qovjerned by the number of overtime hours worked prior to 7:00 a.m. as if st|ch additional overtime hours were a continuation of those worked prior to 7|:00 a.m., i.e. that a maximum of three (3) hours in any week day shall be paid at time and one-half.
7.05	The overtime conditions as stated fcjr day shifts shall apply to night and/or graveyard shifts as if such shifjts were day shifts with regular
14
starting and regular quitting times to be as declared and posted under 6.11. Overtime shall be paid after the posted shift ending.
7.06	The one-hour flexibility prior to the regular starting time of a shift as implied in 7.02.3 herein is to allow performance of necessary preparatory work by certain classifications or groups of employees prior to commencement of actual processing and is not to be construed as permitting operation on a staggered shift. Should processing commence during the one hour prior to the regular starting time of the shift, then the regular quitting time of that particular shift shall be advanced accordingly.
7.07	An employee called to work earlier than 8:00 a.m. shall not be replaced by another employee to do the same job when the employee who was called early has completed eight hours.
7.08	Employees shall be allowed at least ten (10) consecutive hours of rest
between shifts in each twenty-four	(24) hour period. If it is not
possible to give ten (10) consecutive hours of rest in any twenty-four (24) hour period, and this condition continues for more than one (1) day in any week, then penalty time at the rate of an extra half time shall be paid to employees for those hours of the ten (10) hours' rest not given each day. This shall apply from the first day in which the ten (10) hours' rest was not received in that particular week. This condition shall not apply to employees when they swing shifts in an operation which is under a swing shift operation such as watchmen.
7.09	When an employee has worked into double time hours and work continues to and beyond the regular starting time of the employee's next shift, double time shall continue to be paid until the employee is given a rest break of at least six (6) hours.
7.10	Whenever possible, notification of overtime to be worked shall be posted at least two hours prior to the regular quitting time to enable employees to make personal preparations.
7.11	Call-out Procedure - Hourly Rated Employees
Wherever possible, instructions as to when to next report for work shall be given at the end of the shift.
If any situation occurs which makes it impossible to notify crew members as outlined under 7.11.1 the Company shall endeavour to notify the employees by telephone or other means as to when to report for work.
Should the Company be unable to contact an employee under 7.11.2 a notation will be made of same, and this will be available upon request. The Company shall continue to attempt to contact employees for the next day or next call-out who could not be contacted.
7.11.1
7.11.2
7.11.3
15
7.11.4	Nothing herein shall preclude the right of an employee to telephone the plant to find out if there is work and when to report for work.
7.11.5	A phone number at each plant shall be designated by the Company, along with specified hours for use by employees who, for emergency or other reasons, find themselves unable to report for work after being notified to do so.
7.12	The principle shall be applied for notifying employees the previous day whether or not they are to report for work. In the event of a call-out for work on the same day, employees with greater seniority shall not be penalized with respect to employment on subsequent days, should they not be available for work the day of the short call-out. If because of the short call-out, employees of lesser seniority are employed, then such employees shall be replaced by the more senior employees, who could not be contacted, the next working day.
7.13 Management may require hourly rated employees classified herein to start work later than the regular starting time of the shift in which they are employed and pay shall commence at the time of starting work, subject to the minimum call-out conditions.
Minimum Call-out Pay
7.14	With the exception of overtime call-out conditions as stated in 7.15, the Company agrees that if an employee is notified to report for work and does so, the employee shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours time at the rate of pay applicable on that day oz part day. This condition shall apply for all seven (7) days of the week and for call-outs on Statutory Holidays.
7.15 If an employee is requested to report for work after completion of the regular working day (or shift) and where work continues immediately following a meal break, the employee upon reporting shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours; time at the overtime rate applicable. Wherever possible, meal breaks shall be given immediately upon completion of the regular working day or shift.
If the work can be completed in one hour or less, the Company may extend the regular working day (or shift) a maximum of one hour and the applicable overtime rate shall be paid.
If after extending the regular working day (or shift) it is found that the
work which necessitated the extension cannot be completed, a meal break shall be allo wed not later than one (1) hour stipulated. The employee upon reporting after meal break shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours' pay at the overtime rate applicable.
Except where overtime work continues immediately following a meal break as provided herein, all other call-outs to work whether straight time or
16
overtime shall be subject to the minimum call-out conditions stated in 7.14 and 7.16 herein.
7.16 In the case of monthly-rated:
There will be a minimum call-out of two (2) hours at the rate of pay applicable when such occurs after the completion of the regular shift on weekdays.
If called out on a Saturday or Sunday or a Statutory Holiday, the employee shall be paid a minimum for the first call-out of four (4) hours at the applicable overtime rate. Should there be further call-outs later in the day, the minimum for each subsequent call-out shall be two (2) hours at the applicable overtime rate.
The above need not apply when employees are required to check light plants or have similar responsibilities as part of their regular duties necessitating occasional visits into the plant during off-hours.
ARTICLE 8	- WAGE CONDITIONS
8.01 All employees classified in Supplements to this Agreement shall be paid on an hourly rate basis unless it is specifically stated otherwise in the Supplementary Schedules hereto.
Rate Application - Probationary Employees
8.02	An employee who leaves the employ of the Company prior to the cessation of operations after attaining a 400 hour rate, and is rehired by the Company in the following two calendar years, shall not be paid less than the 400 hour rate for the classification for which the employee is rehired,
When an employee has not attained a 400 hour rate in the above instance, hours worked in the two prior years of employment with the Company shall be credited towards payment of such rate upon rehire. Such credited hours shall not apply towards the acquisition of seniority.
8.03 An employee who establishes qualifications with a member company of the Fish Processors' Bargaining Association of British Columbia shall be paid the rate commensurate with those qualifications when employed by another member company of the Fish Processors' Bargaining Association of British Columbia provided, however, not more than two years have elapsed between periods of employment. Proof of qualifications may be requested by the Company prior to the application of qualified rates.
8.04	An employee transferred from one department to another shall be credited with all hours worked (up to a maximum of 400) in establishing a rate in such department.
7.16.1
7.16.2
7.16.3
17
8.05	Any case of compensable accident ok fish poisoning occurring on the job and for which compensation is not paid, but which results in the employee being unable to complete the shift, the employee shall receive
pay for the balance of that shift.
8.06 Where an employee is injured on the job and the First Aid Attendant sends the employee to the hospital, the Company shall reimburse the employee transportation home from the hospital to a maximum of $20.
8.07	Wages shall be paid to employees bi-weekly and no wages can be withheld from the employee except for legal cause or as otherwise provided for in this Agreement. A full statement showing total earning and deductions shall be issued to the employee with each pay cheque.
For the purpose of bi-weekly payroll, the monthly rates shown in the supplements are converted to bi-weekly rates by the application of the following formula:
Monthly rate X 12 x ten days= bi-weekly rate 261
The bi-weekly payroll shall in no way minimize or negate the general understanding with respect to the employment of categories who are monthly rated.
Monthly Rated Employees
8.08	Monthly rate employees shall not be subject to sporadic lay-off at the plant during any fishing season. The monthly rate is a preferred condition under which the Company accepts the responsibility of providing continuous employment to monthly paid employees, over as long term a period as is practicable. In this regard, both parties agree there shall be no change in the past practice during the term of this Agreement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the exercise by the Company of Section 6.21 of this Agreement.
8.09	Travel Pay:	All	wages of	monthly	rated employees classified in the
Supplements hereto shall commence on dates of departure from home port and shall terminate when paid off at the plant, or if the employee is transferred shall be paid off at another plant within the same Company.
8.10	Employees on payroll at one plant who are transferred to another plant
during their period of employment shall receive eight (8) hours straight time pay for each	day spent	travelling on weekly days of rest.
8.11	The wages of hourly rated	employees	shall commence on date of departure
from home port. These employees shall be credited with pay for the period spent travelling	from home	port to	the plant which, in accordance with
Article 7, Hours of Work, would be considered regular working hours. The wages shall terminate when paid off at the plant, or if the employee is transferred, when paid off at another plant within the same Company.
18
8.12	For the purpose of this section, "home port" shall mean the point at which Company-paid transportation commences. If departure time is after 5:00 p.m. the following day shall be the date upon which pay commences.
ARTICLE 9	- STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
General Conditions
9.01	All employees classified herein, and who qualify shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at the straight time rate for each of the listed Statutory Holidays when such holidays are observed.
New Year's Day Good Friday Empire Day Easter Monday
Dominion Day B.C. Day Labour Day Remembrance Day
Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
and any other days that may be proclaimed Statutory Holidays by the Federal or Provincial Government during the terms of this Agreement.
9.02 The eight (8) hours' Statutory Holiday Pay shall be considered as pay for the period of the normal working hours of a regular work day of the employee concerned.
9.03	Should a paid Statutory Holiday fall during an employee's normal annual
vacation period, and the employee would have qualified for pay for that day if not on vacation,	the employee shall receive one extra day's
vacation with pay.
9.04	No employee shall	lose Statutory	Holiday pay as	a result of annual
vacation occurring	during the qualifying	week in	such fashion that
the qualifying requirements are not fulfilled because of such vacation period.
9.05	No employee shall	be disqualified from	receiving	Statutory Holiday
pay if sickness or accident only prevented qualifying conditions from being met and the other conditions necessary are met and if such holiday would normally have been received. Such sickness or accident must originate within thirty (30) calendar	days	preceding	the holiday. If
required, a doctor's certificate must be produced.
9.06	No employee shall lose pay for a Statutory Holiday when the qualifying conditions are unfulfilled only because the employee was engaged in Brotherhood business in an elected or appointed capacity. Nothing herein shall apply to time lost by strikes in which the Brotherhood is engaged nor to an employee elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Brotherhood.
9.07	In the event of emergency conditions or extraordinary deliveries of fish, the Company may request employees to report for work on the stated Holiday. Any employee who does not report shall not receive Statutory Holiday pay, it being understood that notice to report for work shall be
cn	cn	crk	cn cn
19
given the previous day. If notice to report for work is not given the previous day, and a situation arises requiring work by the crew on the Statutory Holiday, employees who cannot be contacted shall not be penalized.
Statutory Holidays Falling on Weekends
9.08 If a listed Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday and no other day is proclaimed in lieu thereof, the Company shall declare the immediately following Monday as a day in lieu. Overtime for time worked on the Monday shall be governed by the day in which the Statutory Holiday falls, i.e. if the Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday, Saturday overtime conditions shall apply on the Monday. If the Statutory Holiday falls on a Sunday, Sunday overtime conditions shall apply on the Monday. Overtime conditions for work on the Statutory Holiday shall be those as listed in the Agreement for Statutory Holidays.
9.09	Should a Statutory Holiday fall on a Saturday or Sunday and no other day is proclaimed in lieu thereof, then for all purposes of this Agreement the day proclaimed shall be the Statutory Holiday.
9.10	If a listed Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday and no other day is proclaimed in lieu thereof, employees will be paid for same, if they otherwise qualify.
Qualifying conditions for Statutory Holiday pay WHEN NOT WORKED.
9.11	Monthly Rated
.11.1 The employee shall be credited with the normal working hours for the Statutory Holiday provided the employee is employed at the time of the Holiday.
.11.2 If not otherwise qualified for Christmas and Boxing Day the Employee shall receive pay for such days if employed for any time in December and has worked until the last day that work is available in December.
.11.3 Should a monthly rated employee not qualify for pay for a Statutory Holiday under the above provisions the employee will be paid if the conditions for hourly rated employees as covered in 9.12 are met.
. 12 Hourly Rated Must:
.12.1 Have worked a minimum of 250 hours, including overtime hours fer the Company during the 12 months preceding the Statutory Holiday, in any of the Company's shore operations. Time spent on vacation shall be included in qualifying hours, also time spent on compensation up to a maximum of 150 hours;
9.12.2	have been employed and worked every regular work day upon which work was available during the calendar week in which the Statutory Holiday falls and in the case of any Statutory Holiday that falls on
20
a Monday or in the case of Christmas Day and Boxing Day the qualifying week as stipulated shall be the regular work days upon which work was available during the seven (7) days preceding the Statutory Holiday and in either case the employee must have worked at least one day or part day during the stated period;
9.12.3	report for work, upon being called to do so, the first day work is available during the three regular work days following the Statutory Holiday. In the event work is not available in the three day period, the employee shall qualify under the section;
9.12.4	Employees who do not qualify for pay for Christmas and/or Boxing Day and/or New Year's day under the above conditions shall receive pay for such day(s) if they have worked a minimum of 210 days during the calendar year in any shore operation. Days spent on Paid Annual Vacation shall be calculated in this total where such vacation had been pre-arranged and actually taken. Where an employee takes a longer vacation period than is earned or is paid for, only the days paid for shall be considered. Similarly, employees who take a prearranged scheduled vacation period but do not receive payment for holiday pay until year-end, shall have an equivalent number of days counted as their holiday pay divided by a sum representing an eight (8) hour day up t o a maximum of the time off taken for such a vacation.
Time spent on Workers' Compensation up to a maximum of 100 normal work days in a calendar year shall be included in the calculation of the 210 days worked, providing the employee would have qualified if he or she had not been absent on compensation.
9.12.5	Every employee who qualified for Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall also qualify for New Year's Day.
Conditions for Statutory Holiday pay WHEN WORKED
9.13 Monthly Rated (except for monthly rated Watchmen)
Hourly Rated
9.13.1	Employees	listed in the supplementary agreements hereto and who
qualify to receive Statutory Holiday Pay, shall receive double time pay	for all hours worked	in	addition to the wage credited
to them for pay for the Statutory Holiday.
9.13.2	Employees who are not qualified	for	Statutory Holiday Pay shall
receive double time for all hours worked on the Statutory Holiday.
9.13.3.	Management may specify another	day	of rest should a Statutory
Holiday fall on hourly rated Watchmen's regular weekly days of rest.
21
9,14 Monthly Rated Watchmen
9.14.1	Should a Statutory Holiday fall on a Watchman's regular weekly day of rest, the management shall specify another day as a day of rest. Should such a day not be allowed, the Watchman concerned shall receive one extra day's pay at double time.
9.14.2	If a day off in lieu is given to a Watchman who has worked on a Statutory Holiday, the employee shall nevertheless receive straight time for all hours worked on the Statutory Holiday in addition to the monthly wage.
ARTICLE 10	- TRANSPORTATION
10.01	The Company shall be responsible for two way transportation, provided the employee stays for six months or more, completes the season, or completes the work for which engaged,
10.02	The Company shall be responsible for one way transportation provided the employee works at the plant two and one half months or more.
10.03 Should an employee quit voluntarily, or be discharged for just cause within two and one half months from arrival at the plant, the employee shall be responsible for all transportation costs.
10.04	Should the Company hire college or high school students to work at up-coast plants, such employees shall be clearly informed of transportation conditions as stated herein and shall be covered thereunder, except that the Company shall inform the student at the time of hiring of the date up to which they may be required to work in order to qualify for Company-paid transportation back toHhome port". The date as set by the Company shall not be later than the normal seasonal closure of the particular area concerned.
10.05	Employees shall pay their own transportation when travelling for personal reasons.
10.06	Transportation referred to in this Article means steamer or airplane passage and it is understood that no remuneration will be granted to employees in lieu of steamer or airplane passage.
ARTICLE 11	- FACILITIES
Lunch Room. Wash Room and Plant Sanitary Facilities
11.01	Proper and adequate lunch room facilities, equipment for heating water, dressing rooms with lockers and sanitary facilities shall be provided by the Company.
11.02 The Company shall maintain hot and cold shower bath facilities in all plants, with the exception o£ those located on the Vancouver and Prince Rupert waterfronts.
22
11.03	Facilities shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition by the Company and the employees shall cooperate in this regard.
ARTICLE 12	- EQUIPMENT
12.01	When management or the Workers' Compensation Board requires safety hats to be worn they will be issued on signature to those employees concerned. Employees will be responsible for maintaining the hats in good condition. Upon leaving the Company's employ, or at time of lay-off, hats must be returned or the full cost will be deducted from the employee's final cheque.
12.02 A rubber coat, rubber hat and rubber boots shall be supplied without cost to the iron butcher crew, tally man and salmon and herring unloaders. Hip waders shall be supplied to employees whose work requires this protection. The issuing of this equipment shall not be confined to the salmon season, but shall be issued when needed.
12.03	When employees are called upon to do work requiring special equipment such as suitable gloves or aprons (but not including boots) same shall be supplied without charge by the Company.
12.04	Suitable gloves shall be supplied by the Company to networkers engaged in stripping seines.
12.05 The Company shall provide employees with knives, an adequate supply of suitable gloves, and one good waterproof apron to employees whose work requires this clothing. When requesting replacements, the employees must return the wornout equipment.
12.06	Where the wearing of coveralls or smocks is required by the Company at in-town plants, the Company shall provide and launder same without charge.
12.07	The Company will replace tools lost, stolen or damaged for Tradesmen and employees on general maintenance where it can be verified such loss or damage occurred in the performance of regular duties. Management may introduce a control for each category through consultation with the employees concerned as to the maximum inventory of tools that would be covered by this allowance.
ARTICLE 13	~ VACATIONS
13.01 Employees shall receive vacation pay calculated on the following bas is :
13.01.1	4% of "total wages" (2 weeks vacation) up to the fourth anniversary date of consecutive years of employment.
13.01.2	6% of "total wages" (3 weeks vacation) from the fourth anniversary date of consecutive years of employment.
23
13.01.3	8% of "total wages" (4 weeks vacation) following the ninth anniversary date of Consecutive years of employment.
13.01.4	10% of "total wages" (5 weeks vacation) from the sixteenth anniversary date of consecutive years of employment.
13,01.5	From the twenty-first anniversary date of consecutive years of employment, the following schedule shall apply:
From the 21st year From the 22nd year From the 23rd year From the 24th year From the 25th year From the 26th year From the 27th year From the 28th year From the 29th year From the 30th year
and each year
- 10.4%	(5 weeks, 1 day vacation)
- 10.4%	(5 weeks, 1 day vacation)
-	10.8%	(5	weeks,	2	days	vacation)
-	10.8%	(5	weeks,	2	days	vacation)
-	11.2%	(5	weeks,	3	days	vacation)
-	11.6%	(5	weeks,	4	days	vacation)
-	12.0%	(6 weeks vacation)
-	12.4%	(6 weeks, 1 day vacation)
-	12,8%	(6	weeks,	2	days	vacation)
-	13.2%	(6	weeks,	3	days	vacation)
thereafter.
13.02	The vacation period shall be given at a time mutually satisfactory to management and the employee concerned, and every effort shall be made to extend the practice of giving vacations during the period 1st to September 30th. To this end, discussions shall be held between Shop Stewards and Management during April of each year to work out a suitable vacation schedule. Employees shall not be prevented from taking two consecutive weeks holiday except in the case where, by mutual agreement between management and the individual concerned, the two weeks may be split. In the case of employees who qualify for three, or more weeks vacation with pay, every effort shall be made to give the full vacation period at one time. Discussions will be held between management and employees who qualify for three or more weeks' vacation, to work out a vacation schedule which will not cause dislocation of operations.
13.03	Any employee whose work tends to be year-round but who fails to establish a "working year" (i.e. 225 work days) shall have the right to receive an actual vacation equal in length to the number of days vacation pay to which entitled, time of such vacation to be by mutual agreement between the employee concerned and plant management.
13.04	Employees shall be allowed a vacation equal in length to the vacation pay they receive and it shall be at the option of such employees to request and be given a vacation equal to the number of full weeks their service with the Company will provide.
13.05	Employees leaving the employ of the Company shall receive the vacation pay accruing to them. In the case of an employee who dies, the vacation pay payable to the estate of the deceased shall be
24
calculated in the same way as for a person who terminates employment by quitting or being discharged.
13.06	"Total wages” shall include all wages, all overtime pay, and pay for Statutory Holidays, piece work earnings, contract earnings, and vacation pay received from the employer during the "calendar year."
13.07	Any day upon which an employee works, regardless of the hours worked on such day, shall be considered as a day of "actual work."
13.08	Vacation calculations generally shall be based on the calendar year January 1st to December 31st, with the exception of the specific application and use of the anniversary date of employment as stated herein.
13.09	Should a paid Statutory Holiday fall during an employee's annual vacation period, and if the employee would have qualified for pay for the day if not on vacation, then the employee shall receive one extra day's vacation with pay.
ARTICLE 14	- MEDICAL AND EXTENDED HEALTH COVERAGE
14.01	Medical Services Plan
The contract	currently held by	the	Companies	signatory	to this
Agreement and the British Columbia Medical Services Plan, to provide medical care to employees classified herein who qualify and indicate their desire to be covered by the plan, shall remain in effect for the duration of this agreement.
14.02	Extended Health Benefits Plan
The contract	currently held by	the	companies	signatory	to this
Agreement and the Medical Services Association to provide Extended Health Benefits to employees classified herein and who indicate their desire to be covered by the plan, shall remain in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
14.03	Premium rates of the B.C. Medical Services Plan and the Extended Health Benefits Plan of M.S.A. may be adjusted at any time as may be required to reflect changes in the coverage of either plan, or changes in the experience of the group.
14.04	Eligibility:	To qualify for	coverage under	the B.C.	Medical
Services Plan	and the Extended Health	Benefits	Plan of M.S.A., an
employee must have gained "regular" employee status.
14.05	Application Forms:	To ensure enrolment in both the Medical Services
Plan and the Extended Health Benefits Plan, an employee must complete and sign the required application forms of both plans.
25
14.06	Payment of Premiums:	Subject to the conditions set forth herein for
prepaid premiums, the Company agrees to pay 80% of the premium of both plans for each month the employee is on the payroll.
14.07	Prepaid Premiums:	To assist employees who are temporarily laid off
to maintain their coverage under both plans the Company shall make the following contributions:
If an employee is laid off within five (5) months of the date of enrolment, the employee shall pay in advance the full monthly premium of both plans to maintain coverage.
If an employee is laid off after five (5) months from date of enrolment, in the plans, the Company will pay 80% of the next three monthly premiums of both plans and 50% of the monthly premiums for the fourth to sixth month of layoff. Thereafter, the full premiums must be paid in advance by the employee to maintain his or her coverage.
ARTICLE 15	- DENTAL PLAN
15.01	The contract currently held by the Companies signatory to this Agreement and the Medical Services Association to provide dental care to employees classified herein who qualify in accordance with the requirements of the Plan and who indicate their desire to be covered by the Plan, shall remain in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
15.02	The Plan shall provide a maximum 80% of Plan A - Basic Services and
60% of Plan B - Prosthetic Appliances and Crown and Bridge Procedures. Employees, their spouses and registered dependents shall be eligible for service under the provisions of the Plan. Effective February 1,	1988, Part C will be added to the Plan. This will cover
dependent children to a lifetime maximum of $850 (508 reimbursement).
15.03 Premium Rate may be adjusted at any time as may be required to reflect change in the experience of the group, and/or changes in dental service rates.
15.04	Eligibility - to qualify for coverage under the Dental Plan, an employee must have accumulated:
either 1 year of 10 months service or the equivalent of 1250 hours service in 10 month period, or
either 2 consecutive years of at least 6 months of service or the equivalent of 1500 hours service in the two consecutive years, or
either 3 consecutive years of at least 5 months of service or the equivalent of 1875 hours service in the three consecutive years.
14,07,1
14.07.2
I
26
For this purpose, the employee's anniversary date shall be used in determining the year; and a month's service is defined as a calendar month in which the employee has worked one hundred hours or more.
15.05	Payment of Premiums. Subject to the conditions set forth herein, for prepaid premiums the Company agrees to pay 80% of the premium for each month the employee is on the payroll.
15.06	Prepaid Premiums. To assist employees who are temporarily laid off to maintain their coverage for a full twelve (12) months after their date of enrolment the Company shall make the following contributions:
If the employee is laid off within five months of enrolment, the employee shall pay in advance the full monthly premium to maintain coverage to anticipated date of rehire.
If the employee is laid off after five months from date of enrolment in the Plan, or in subsequent years if the employee is laid off after five months on the payroll, in the twelve month period immediately following the date of rehire, the Company will pay 80% of the next three monthly premiums and 50% of the monthly premiums for the fourth to sixth month of layoff. Thereafter, the full premium must be paid in advance by the employee to maintain his or her coverage to the anticipated date of rehire.
ARTICLE 16	- SHOREWORKERS' BENEFIT PLAN
16.01	Each Company shall pay at the rate of 27 cents per straight time hour
worked per employee	(28 cents per straight time hour worker per
employee effective July 25,	1988) to the Trust Fund established
as the Shoreworkers' Benefit Plan. "Employees" are defined as those classified in this Agreement, and such others employed in shore operations of the Company as may be agreed to from time to time by the Union and the Company.
16.02	The Shoreworkers' Benefit Plan shall incorporate Group Life insurance and Weekly Indemnity provisions and such other benefits as may be approved and established by the Board of Trustees. Any benefits established shall be equal to Union and non-Union employees. Any monies paid from the Trust Fund shall be for welfare benefits only paid directly to individuals or estates with the exception of reasonable administrative charges. Investments of the Fund shall be in securities that are recognized under the Insurance Companies Act.
15,05,1
15.06.2
27
16.03	The Fish Processor's Bargaining Association shall be provided annually with a financial statement of the Plan, audited by a firm of chartered accountants acceptable to the Fish Processors' Bargaining Association. Also provided will be all minutes of Board of Trustee meetings, regular monthly or other financial and statistical reports prepared by the Brotherhood Benefit Fund Directors.
ARTICLE 17	~ BEREAVEMENT
17.01	Should an immediate relative of an employee die, and the employee require time off to attend the funeral or to attend to funeral arrangements during the regular work weeks, such employee shall receive, upon request, up to three days leave with pay. Immediate relative shall mean Mother, Father, Brother, Sister, Husband, Wife, Son, Daughter, Grandparents, Parents-in-law, or Common-law spouse (common-law relationship to be of at least one year duration).
ARTICLE 18	- PENSION PLANS
18.01	The individual Companies signatory hereto agree that Company pension plans in effect shall be maintained during the duration of this Agreement.
18.02	Enrolment in a plan will be voluntary for the employee after a qualifying period of either twelve (12) consecutive months' service or two (2) consecutive years of nine (9) months' service, or three (3) consecutive years of seven (7) months' service with the Company concerned. For this purpose, a month's service is defined a5 a calendar month in which the employee has worked one hundred (100) hours or more.
18.03	Am employee joining a plan shall agree to contribute 5% of earnings, aind the individual Company shall contribute an amount, sufficient when combined with the employee's contribution to guarantee to the employee at normal retirement date, an annual pension of 1.5% of total employee earnings on which contributions were made while a member of the plan.
18.04	Individual Company pension plans may be integrated with the Canada Pension Plan. The employee contribution may be reduced to 3,5% on the annual earnings on which Canada Pension Plan contributions are payable. On earnings over this ceiling established by law for Canada Pension Plan contributions the rate of contribution to the Company plan shall be 5%. The individual Company shall contribute an amount sufficient when combined with the employee's contribution to guarantee to the employee at the normal retirement date an annual pension of 1.05% of earnings, upon which 3.5% contributions were made and 1.5% of earnings upon which 5% contributions were made.
28
18.05	Each Company's pension plan will have (as a minimum) contingent vesting of 10% of the Company's contribution in the 11th year after enrolment with equal and progressive annual increases until full vesting is reached after 20 years. This vesting of the Company's contributions will be contingent upon the employee leaving contributions in the plan towards a paid-up pension at the normal pension age.
ARTICLE 19
JURY DUTY
19.01	The Company shall pay the difference between the amount of jury fees and the straight time earnings lost, to any "regular" employee required to report for and/or serve jury duty. This provision shall not apply to "probationary" employees.
ARTI :LE 20
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND
20.01	The Company shall give the Headquarters of the Brotherhood and the plant Shop Steward Committee as much advance notification as is practical of any intent to introduce technological innovation or change that affects the terms, conditions or security of employment of a significant number of employees to whom a collective agreement applies; and alters significantly the basis on which the collective agreement was negotiated.
20.02 Nothing herein shall preclude the rights of shop stewards to seek the assistance of Headquarters of the Brotherhood and in any event, the Union shall become involved immediately if displacement of a significant number of employees is a likely consequence of the technological change.
20.03	Technological change means the introduction by the Company of a change in its work, undertaking or business, or a change in its equipment or material from the equipment or material previously used by the Company in its work undertaking or business; or a change in the manner the Company carries on its work, undertaking or business related to the introduciton of that equipment or material.
20.04 When notification is given, a plant committee of four (4) employees shall be named or elected by the shop steward committee to meet with management to discuss local issues such as manning requirements, call-out arrangements, classifications, premium rates and working arrangements. Without limiting the generality, broader issues of replacement of workers, severance pay (where applicable), compensation shall be referred to Headquarters of the Brotherhood and the Company together with any unresolved local issues.
20.05	Any areas of disagreement that remain outstanding two weeks after the final meeting and an impasse has been reached, may be referred by either party to arbitration for binding and final settlement, or where appropriate and timely, referred to the collective bargaining process.
29
20.06	In the event the proposed technological change requires a program of training or retraining, the Company shall participate with the Provincial Government and the Brotherhood to assist those employees affected to adjust to alternate employment.
20.07	Where a technological innovation ok change results in a loss of position of identifiable regular employees at small operations, where there is no alternative employment available; or at any operation a loss of position of trades who practice particular skills and to whom alternative work is not available or who do not elect alternative work at reduced categories, individual compensation will be considered either in the form of severance pay or retraining allowances or other mutually agreed to measures.
ARTICLE 21	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
21.01	During the life of this Agreement, should any difference arise concerning the interpretation, application, operation, or any alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether any matter is arbitrable o^c should any local trouble arise in a plant, there shall be no stoppage of work or strikes on the part of the Brotherhood nor shall therei by any lockouts on the part of the Company until the grievance procedure outlined has been complied with.
21.02	In the event that a grievance or //ispute arises, the Shop Steward Committee shall function as the Grievance Committee and the members thereof shall be afforded such time, off without pay deduction as may be required to attend the necessary meetings with the management. At major plants, where there is a large number of Shop Stewards, the Shop Steward Committee shall elect a sub-committee who shall with the Chief Shop Steward and the Shop Steward representing the section in which the grievance has occurred, constitute the Grievance Committee. Nothing herein shall prevent thej holding of meetings between the management and the full Shop Steward Committee if the need arises.
21.03	It is the general interest of both parties to prevent the elevation of minor questions into formal grievances and, as a possible means to this end, employees are urged t^o raise grievances imagined or otherwise with their foreman as quj the right to go directly to their de wish to do so.
ckly as possible. Employees have partmental shop steward if they
30
21.04	The successive steps to be taken in the handling of any grievance until it is settled shall be set forth as follows:
First:	The employee shall notify the departmental Shop Steward who
shall immediately approach the department foreman with or without the employee on the grievance or dispute. If the matter is urgent, it shall be discussed at once. If not urgent, it shall be discussed at the end of the shift. If no settlement is made or if the matter is not one involving the foreman, the Shop Steward and/or the Chief Shop Steward(s) shall raise the matter with the Plant Superintendent or Personnel Manager at the earliest opportunity.
Second :	If no settlement is made, the employee and/or Shop Steward
shall immediately advise the Brotherhood Business Agent and/or full-time Brotherhood Representative of the alleged violation of the Agreement and the grievance shall be placed in writing and include full details of the alleged violation and reference to the pertinent section of the Agreement. Upon receipt of the written submission a meeting will be arranged between Plant Management and the Grievance Committee to attempt resolution of the grievance. If no settlement is reached, step three shall be invoked.
Third :	a) Plants in areas where full-time Brotherhood Repre-
Headquarters of the the Company shall
Brotherhood and Headquarters of be informed by their respective plant representative*1 of the result of the meeting held in accordance with the second step of the Grievance Procedure.	If the grievance has not been
resolved, a meeting shall be arranged within six (6) days of such notice, and immediately if the matter is
urgent, between the Plant management with, the Brotherhood and further effort shall or dispute. Should matter in dispute, st
b) Isolated Plants or Operations
The same procedure as except that the meet representative of representatives of however, the proced followed.
Plant Grievance Committee and Headquarters representatives of the Company in attendance, and a be made to settle the grievance this meeting fail to settle the ep four may be invoked.
outline in (a) shall be followed ing shall be between Headquarters he Brotherhood and Headquarters the Company. Whenever possible, ure outlined in (a) shall be
Fourth:	Recourse may be had to arbitration.
Each of the Parties
in dispute shall appoint an arbitrator.
a)	The arbitrators shall, attempt to nominate a third impartial arbitrator who shall act as Chairman of the Arbitration Committeei Failing to agree upon such impartial arbitrator with three days of their appointment either party may request the Honourable Minister of Labour to appoint such impartial arbitrator. In the case of a grievance or dispute involving interpretation of this Agreement, the majority decision of arbitrators shall be final and binding on both Parties, it being understood that notwithstanding the foregoing, no decision of such Arbitration Board shall change this Agreement in wording or format. The Arbitration Board shall make a decision with ten (10) days of the selection1 or appointment of the Chairman.
b)	Each Party shall bea| the cost of its own representative and the parties |hall equally share the remuneration of the Chairman.,
21.05	All time limits set forth herein arc exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory Holidays and may be extended by mutual consent: of both Parties, it being agreed both Parties are interested in and will strive to achieve settlement of al1 grievances or disputes in the shortest possible time.
ARTICLE 22	- TERMINATI
)N OR REVISION
22,01 The effective date of this Agreemeit shall be April 16, 1988. This Agreement shall terminate on April 15, 1989 provided that one of the
Parties to the Agreement gives writ the other Party not later than the 1 such notice of termination shall f the Agreement to commence collective of termination is given, the Agr effect from year to year, provided t year after 1989 on its anniversary April) by one Party to the Agreeme the Agreement, not later than the 15 which the Agreement is to be term termination and a written requireme collective bargaining.
ten notice of such termination to 5th day of February 1989. Any jrther require the other party to bargaining. If no such notice eement shall thereafter remain in lat it may be terminated in any late (that is, on the 16th day of nt giving to the other Party to th day of February in the year in inated, written notice of such nt to the other Party to commence
32
22.02	IN WITNESS WHEREOF the said parties hands this ____________________________da
hereto have hereunder set their of____________________, 1988.
FISH PROCESSORS’ BARGAINING ASSOCIATION	NATIVE BROTHERHOOD OF
OF BRITISH COLUMBIA	BRITISH COLUMBIA
REPRESENTING:
British Columbia Packers Ltd.
The Canadian Fishing Co. Ltd.
J.S. McMillan Fisheries Ltd. (Cow Bay)
\
1988	
NATIVE BROTHERHOOD OF BRI1	ISH COLUMBIA
UNITED FISHERMEN AND ALLIED	WORKERS' UNION
CANNERY GENERAL 1	S SUPPLEMENT
SECTION 1 - GENE	RAL
1.01 Northern Differential	
Employees classified herein who s	bre employed at an north of Port
Hardy, including the Queen Chariot	Ite Islands if living in their
own home and/or who are not livi	hg in a Company residence where
they would be subsidized by the Cc	mpany for either board, light,
rent, or heat, shall receive a *	age differential over the rates
listed herein on the following bas!	s:
Monthly rated classifications -	$60.00 per month or
	$28.00 bi-weekly
Hourly rated Classifications -	$0.35 per hour
The above rate is to be incorpc	rated in the basic rate for
purposes of overtime calculations.	
Where more than one member of a i	amily living in a Company house
is employed in the plant or operati	on, only one employee (usually
the one to whom the house is al:	ocated) shall not receive this
differential. All others living ir	the same Company house shall
receive the Northern Differential.	
1.02 Niaht Shift Differential	
Employees required to work on	eifternoon (4:00 pm to midnight)
shifts shall receive $0.26 per houi	above the regular rates (both
straight time and overtime) for al	1 hours so worked and $0.26 per
hour above the regular rates (bot)	straight time and overtime)
for all hours worked on gravel	ard (i.e. midnight to 8:00am)
shift. Engineers on continous shii	t only, shall receive $0.43 per
hour for all hours worked on afterr	(ion shift and graveyard shift.
1.03 First Aid Attendant	
Any employee classified in this	agreement also employed in the
capacity of First Aid Attendant she	11 receive $50.00 per month if
they are a holder of a valid "A" "	icket, $40.00 per month for "B"
Ticket, or $35.00 per month for a *	C" Ticket, in addition to the
regular monthly wage. This ac	ditional payment shall not be
recognized in the computation of	t:he employee's regular hourly
rate.	
2 1.04 Charge Hands	
"Charge Hands" are distinguishabl	i from foremen and other super-
visory personnel by the fact that '	:hey are clearly included in the
bargaining unit and covered by th	j Collective Agreement, they are
required to do bench and floor wor	i, they are under the supervi-
sion of a foreman or superintend	»nt, they have the authority to
discipline, but not to discharge.	
Employees designated as "Charge H	inds" shall receive $0.25 per
hour above their classified rate.	
1.05 Lift Truck Drivers	
Employees who are known to be expe	rienced Lift Truck Drivers shall
receive the wage rate as listei	1 herein from commencement of
employment. If experienced Lift	[“ruck Drivers are not available,
the Company may designate an emplo;	ree hired under the classifica-
tion Probationary or Labour Group	1 as a Lift Truck Driver and he
or she shall be paid, as a minimum	. the Labour Group 1 rate while
so employed. Should an employ	ie so chosen indicate sufficient
skill and interest in a maximum cH'	i month probationary period, the
employee shall be re-classified	as an experienced Lift Truck
Driver and paid the rate as listed	. In the event sufficient skill
and interest are not demonstrated	during the probationary period,
the employee shall be replaced.	
SECTION 2 - MACHINE, MAINTENANCE,	30ATSH0P, AND ENGINEERS
2.01 Trades Certification	
Every employee who proves to the s	itisfaction of the Company that
the employee has passed the recog;	lized B.C. tradesman examination
specified for the trade designate'	1 and is the holder of a B.C.
certificate of proficiency in i	>uch trade, shall be paid the
maintenance trades rate, cannery ;	uachinemen's rate, or boatshop
trades rate plus $0.20 per hour wh	Lie employed in such trade.
This certificate premium will	also apply to those employees in
specified trades who have 10 co:	lsecutive years of service as
journeyman in the industry as of J	lly 1, 1981.
This premium will not apply to i	iteam and/or refrigeration engi-
neers.	
2.02 Sundry Canning Operations	
In operations where Reform Mac:	lines, Iron Butcher Hachines,
Filling Hachines and Heading M	ichines are not used, employees
ordinarily classified as Operat	)rs of such machines may be
3 employed as General Utility Men ai	id shall receive $14,13 per hour
and $21,19-1/2 for all time and ont	-half overtime hours.
2.03 Qualified Assistant Machinemen i	ho have served as Qualified
Assistants for three years shal	1 receive 90% of the Machineman
rate if he remains in that class if]	cation.
2.04 The classification HJr, Machine	Helper" shall apply only to
employees under 18 years of age.	An employee may be engaged for
only one season or one year as the	case may be under this class!-
fication. At the commencement of 1	he second season, such employee
shall be re-classified as 1st year	Utility Man.
2.05 1st and 2nd year Utility Men tray	be employed as helpers at any
type of work classified in Groups	and 2 of Section 2 of the wage
supplement. At the commencement ot	the 3rd year, they shall be
placed at the type of machine	work for which they have shown
themselves most adaptable.	
2.06 Employees who have served their tin	ie as 1st, 2nd and 3rd year
Utility Men shall be classified a	s Qualified Assistant Linemen,
Iron Butcher Man or Filling Machina	Man. Any employee called upon
to assume the responsibility oi	a journeyman machine operator,
regardless of length of service,	shall be paid the journeyman
rate.	
2.07 During the operating season, ii	. no case shall there be more
Utility Men or Qualified Assists	nt Machinemen than Journeymen
Machinemen in any machine categoa	;y. At no time shall Journeymen
be laid off in favour of Utility Ms	n or Qualified Assistants.
2,08 At plants where retorts are locati	:d at some distance from the
boilers, consideration shall be	given to employing a separate
engineer and a separate retort man	No employee shall be asked
to fill the triple class L £ icat.l	on "Engineer-Fireman and Retort
Man. "	
2.09 The classification "Maintenance Mai	i" shall apply only t o men who
are fully qualified in their pari	icular trade. In establishing
qualification, any employee who <	an prove five years employment
at his particular trade shall be cc	rsidered qualified.
2.10 Eiying Out Time	
	mployees are on repair work or
	location which requires the
	It least overnight, the employee
will be paid for such work at a ra:	e 12% above the basic boatshop
and maintenance rate. The Cora;	any shall provide for necessary
meals and accomodation. This	:ondition shall not apply to
employees transferred to another	plant for a period in excess of
2.11
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05
one week nor to employees sent distance.
Classifications listed in Group Supplement shall have a regular than 8:00 a.m. and shall not wo
t another plant within commuting
and 2 of Section 2 of the Wage aily starting time not later plit shifts.
In the case of the classificat hour later than Groups 1 and 2
SECTION 3 - GENERAL
Lon "Retort Man", management may
11 commence their working day one
Employees required to act as classified duties shall receive classified rate, the total to
app
ekeepers” in addition to their 05 cents additional to their in calculation of overtime.
Pp
ill
Registered Nurse )
Sundry Canning Opertions
Hourly rated workers employed in a be paid on the same basis as hour Herring.
Pres^n rates shall be increased by
jpr hour over the 1987/8B rates Jye April 16, 1988.
11 types of sundry canning shall ly rated workers on Salmon and
Piece Work Rates
implemented by agreement between Union. Any piece work syste hourly guarantee equivalent to
,1
those hours for which the multipl payable, and for payment of fill earnings for those hours which th payable. Any final disagreemen
Herring Roe Classifications
i|on shall not be employed unless he Company concerned and the employed must provide for an the general labour rate, for ition to piece work earnings for rate of time and one-half is time, in addition to piece work multiple rate of double time is would be subject to Arbitration rocedure.
There shall be two classification
paid under Labour Group 1 rates ment. Employees shall be given
established in the herring roe nip herring roe popper, both to be Section 3 of the Wage Supple-preference as to the choice of re capable of doing the work
5 SECTION 4 - NETVOI	KERS
4,01 Contract Net Work	
No work on nets shall be done on	a contract or piece work basis,
other than by mutual consent of bol	[h parties. Should any group of
fishermen preparing their seine des	hire to work on a contract basis
there shall be no objection the pai	of the Union.
4,02 Networkers employed at a camp fee	ility may be given alternate
days off to Saturday and Sunday a	s the weekly days of rest. The
principle of giving consecutive dc	ys shall be followed. This
article shall apply only to the fb	Rowing categories when employed
at a camp facility: Net Boss and i	ualified Networker.
4,03 Monthly Rated Networkers	
Employees commencing net work for	i:he first time shall be clas-
sif led as "First year Networkers.'	They shall serve a three year
(one season shall be equivalent to	one year) apprenticeship being
classified successively as "Firs	it", "Second" and "Third" year
networkers. At the commencement o:	: their fourth year (or season)
they shall be classified as "Qualf:	ed Networkers" and paid accord-
inqly,	
4,04 Should instances occur where, in i	:he opinion of the Management,
sufficient skill and ability he	s not been demonstrated by an
individual employee during the	qualifying period to justify
upgrading, such cases shall be	referred to the Qualified Net-
workers in the netloft concerned.	
If, in the opinion of the qualii	ied workers, the employee is
entitled to the upgrading, they sh«	ill meet as a committee with the
management for the purpose of work:	ng out a satisfactory solution.
If it found impossible to work oib	: a mutually acceptable solution
by this procedure, the case shall	be dealt with in the regular
grievance procedure.	
4,05 In no case shall there be mo:	:e inexperienced workers (First,
Second, Third year) employed than <	[ualified networkers in any net
operation. This principle shall	apply to gillnet networkers; it
being understood that circumstai	ices may occur which make it
impossible to rigidly apply the t	rendition in all gillnet opera-
tions, At no time shall qualified i	forkers be laid off in favour of
apprentices.	
The companies shall recognize aii<	cooperate in the establishment
of an individual record book s ;	rstem showing the service and
experience of a networker engaged ,	n net work.
6 SECTION 5 -	WATC	HMEN
5,01 The duties and schedule of d	ai)	hours of work and the commence-
ment of the work week of Watch	ner	hall be detailed by the Manager
	1	that due to the peculiarities of
	k	stry, it is not practical to
standardize duties throughout	ths	ndustry.
5.02 The general duty of Watchm	en	s to protect and maintain in an
efficient and effective manner	tt	Company's property.
	)b	OR REVISION
6,01	in	notion with the Master Agreement
and is recognized as being par	t t	same,
		th in this Supplement are sEEec-
tive as from and including April		16; 1938, except where another
date is specifically stipu	Lain	d herein, and termination or
revision of this Supplement sh	all	le governed by the conditions as
stated in the Master Agreement	•	
6.02 Signed at Vancouver this		,dav of , 19 88,
FISH PROCESORS' BARGAINING ASSOCIATON		NATIVE BROTHERHOOD OF
OF BRITISH COLUMBIA		BRITISH COLUMBIA
		
Representing:		
British Columbia Packers Ltd,		
The Canadian Fishing Company Ltd,		
J.S, McMillan Fisheries Ltd, (Cow Bay	)	
1988	
CANNERY MASTER - WAGE SUP	PLEMENT
SECTION 1 -	
1.01 The wage scales set out hereunder are t classifications. Any prior commitments to of those shown in this supplement shall be
e minimum scales for the listed individuals for rates in excess honoured.
SE(________2
AND ENGINEERS
Effective A ril 1 , 1988
Monthly Bi-Wkly Daily Hourly T&1/2 Classification	Rate Rate Rate Rate Rate
2.01 Group 1
Lineman	}
Iron Butcher Mai	)
Filling Machine Man	)
Port Eng.&/or Machinist) 3051.96 1403.20 Maintenance Man:	)
(Carpenter, Welder Blacksmith,Electrician) etc.)	)
Retort/Maintenance	)
40.32 17.54	26.31
Qualified Asst. Lineman)
Qualified Asst.	)
Filling Machine Man )
Qualified Asst. Iron )
Butcher Man	)	2526.48	1161.6C
Labelling & Box-up )
Machine Man	)
116.16 14.52
21.78
Dbl.T
Rate
35.08
29.04
Box-up Machine Man 1st Year Utility Man 2nd Year Utility Man 3rd Year Utility Man Junior Machine Helper
2449.92	1126.4C
2362.92	1086.4C
2389.02	1098.4C 2423.82 1114.40 2312.46 1063.2C
112.64	14.08
108.64	13.58 109.84 13.73 111.44 13.93 106.32 13.29
21.12	28.16
20.37	27.16
20.59-1/2	27.46
20.89-1/2	27.86
19.93-1/2	26.58
2.02 Group 2
Chief Eng.SFireraan(dual) Chief Eng.3rd Class Tkt. Shift Eng.3rd Class Tkt. Shift Eng.4th Class Tkt.
Retort Man
3051.96 1403.2C 3013.68 1385.60 2970.18 1365.60
2676.12	1230.40 2707.44 1244.80
140.32 17.54
138.56	17.32
136.56	17.07 123.04 15.38 124.48 15.56
26.31 35.08 25.98 34.64 25.60-1/2 34.14
23.07	30.76 23.34 31.12
MEMORANDUM 0}
It is the intent of the member ( 11:17 of the Tendermen's Agreement
In the event an emergency art Dispatcher, if available, mutual ] the mandatory rest period to be bi members) shall be paid a time average daily rates of all clas period that a proper rest period
It is imperative that the log she« or names of the crew member anc| Captain and Dispatcher, if avail at
The Companies and the Union this happens and decide whether agreements.
’ AGREEMENT
This memorandum shall be Tendermen's Agreement.
SIGNED AT VANCOUVER this
in effect until termination of the 198!
dc )y of
FISH PROCESSORS' BARGAINING ASSOCIATION OF B,C,
ompanies to ensure that Article is carried out.
sses where the Captain and y agree that conditions require oken then that crew member (or nd one half day, based on the sslfications for each 24 hour S3 not given.
t shows the detail and the name members and is signed by the lie.
hall monitor the frequency that It shall become part of future
1988
NATIVE BROTHERHOOD OF BRITISH COLUMBIA