COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
OMSTEAD FOODS LIMITED
(hereinafter called the “Company")
— and —
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION LOCAL 459
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
TERM:
April 1,1995 to
March31, 1999
INDEX
Article	Page#	
1	Purpose	4
2	Definitions	4
3	Recognition	6
4	Union Security and Union Dues	6
5	Management Rights	11
6	Strikes and Lock Outs	12
7	Grievance Procedure	12
8	Arbitration	16
9	Seniority	17
10	Layoff and Recall Provisions Applicable to all Employees	21
11	Special Provisions Applicable to Members of the Cold Storage Department	23
12	Special Provisions Applicable to Members of the Sanitation Department	27
13	Shift Transfer	28
14	DepartmentTransfer	29
15	Job Posting	31
16	Hours of Work, Overtime and Working Conditions	35
17	Special Provisions Applicable to the Skilled Trades Department	43
18	Leaves of Absence	52
INDEX
Article
19	Bulletin Boards
20	Jury Duty
21	Wages
22	Bereavement Leave
23	Paid Holidays
24	Vacation with Pay
25	Health and Welfare
26	Cost-of-Living-Allowance
27	Special Provision Applicable to Seasonal Employees
28	Health and Safety
29	Duration
30	Labour Management Committee
31	Gain Sharing Plan
—	Schedule “A"
—	Schedule “B”
—	Letter of Intent
—	Letter of Understanding
Page#
54
54
54
55 55 57 60
64
65
67
68 68
69
70 75 78 80
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement isto establishand
maintaincollectivebargainingrelationsbetweenthe Company and its employees employed within the bargaining unitdescribedinArticle3ofthisAgreementandto provide a mechanism for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, as per Article 7 and 8 of this Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 2
DEFINITIONS
2.01	The word “employee” shall mean a person employed within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement, who is not a “seasonal employee” as hereinafter defined.
2.02	The phrase “probationary employee” shall mean an employee who has not completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who has not acquired seniority.
2.03	The phrase “seniority employee” shall mean an employee who has completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who has been retained inthe employ of the Company following completion of the probationary period and who has acquired seniority.
2.04	The phrase “seasonal employee” shall mean a person employed within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement whose employment is during
— 4 —
the period from and including July 15th in any year up to and including January 15th of the following year.
Seasonal employees shall not acquire seniority or seniority rights, shall not interfere with the seniority rights of seniorityemployeesand shall notdisplaceprobationary employees. The only provisions of this Agreement which apply to seasonal employees are those provisions which are specifically applicable to seasonal employees and such provisionsshall only apply to seasonalemployeesto the extent specifically provided in such provisions.
2.05 Whenever the singular or masculine are used in this Agreement, the same shall be construedas meaning the plural or the feminine where the context or the parties hereto so require.
2.06	The Company and the Union do not and will not, as a matter of policy, discriminate against any employee because of race, creed, colour, sex, national origin or membership in the Union.
2.07	Hourly lead workers selected by the Company shall leadand direct the workforce and be responsiblefor:
1.	Training employees when necessary
2.	Ensuring that directions of the supervisor are followed
3.	Coordinatingwork as required
4.	Checking work for quality and quantity
5.	Reporting necessary information
6.	Performing necessary manual duties
— 5 —
Lead workers shall not normally replace an employee in a classifiedjob unless a replacement is not available. It is agreed and understood lead workers will not issue discipline to other employees.
ARTICLE3
RECOGNITION
3.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent of all employees of the Company in the Townships of Romney, Mersea, and the town of Pott Stanley, Ontario, save and except Foremen and persons above the rank of Foreman, Security Guards, persons employed in the growing and harvesting of agricultural products, Office and Sales Staff, Quality Assurance Personnel, Pollution Control Personnel, Retail Sales Personnel, Fishermen, Net Menders, persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week and students employed during the school vacation periods.
ARTICLE 4
UNION SECURITY AND UNION DUES
4.01	All seniority employees who are members of the Union shall remain members of the Union. A new employee shall become a member cf the Union upon completion of the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement. A seasonal employee shall become a member of the Union after he has worked a total of thirty (30) actual days, consecutiveor intermittent,within any period of three (3) consecutive months.
— 6 —
4.02	The Union expressly agrees that no seniority employee and no seasonal employee will be denied membership in the Union except for the non-payment of Union dues.
4.03	(a) The Company will deduct union dues, as set from time to time by the Union, from the pay of each seniorityemployeewhoisa memberofthe Unionandfrom the pay of each seasonal employee who is a member of the Union, as hereinbefore provided, when so authorized by such employee, in writing, on a form acceptable to the Company. Such deductions shall be made monthly on the employees' fourth pay period each calendar month and the amount so deducted shall be transmitted to the Union before the 10th day of the following calendar month.
(b)	Per the International Constitution, all employees who are in the Union and who have worked any hours within the calendar month, will pay Union dues.
4.04	(a) There shall be elected or selected one (1) Steward from each shift (day/afternoon), in each Department, for a total of two (2) from each Department. A Steward must have at least one (1) year of seniority with the Company.
(b)	The Union’s Negotiating / Grievance Committee shall be comprised of one (1) Steward from each Department plus two (2) members from the bargaining unit at large.
(c)	One (1) of the members from the bargaining unitat large, shall be the Chief Steward, andtheothershall be the Assistant Chief Steward.
7
4.05	The Company will not recognize any employee as a Steward until it has received written notice from the Unionto this effect. The Union will inform the Company in writing, of any changes in the names of the Stewards.
4.06	(a) It is acknowledged that Stewards have their regular duties to perform as employees and that such duties must be performed in the same manner and to the same extent as other employees. A Steward shall not leave his regularduties without receivingpermissionfrom hissupervisor. The supervisorwill notunreasonablyrefuse to grant a Steward permissionto leave his regularduties fora reasonablelengthoftime.withoutlossof pay, in order to perform any of the duties required to be performed by a Steward pursuant to the provisions contained in Article 7 of this Agreement.
(b) The Chief Steward or his designateshall have up to forty (40) hours per week to perform union business if necessary. It is understood that the Company may require the Chief Steward or his designate to perform duties in his classificationor other duties in an emergency.
The Chief Steward or his designate shall have the privilege of working on the day shift. The rate of pay shall be determined by his classification held previous to the effective date of that Chief Steward position.
4.07	Notwithstandingthe other provisions of thisAgree-ment, in the event of a layoff, Stewards (to include the Assistant Chief Steward) will bethe lastto be laidoff within their Departmentand on theshiftwherethey exercise their seniority, provided they have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily performthejobs to be done.
8
The Chief Steward will be the last to be laid off provided he has the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
4.08	The Company will provide an office to the Union for exclusive use of the Union.The BusinessAgent, Vice-Presidentand /or Presidentof the Unionwill not be denied access to the Company's premises for the purpose of conducting Union business regarding employees of the Company, provided prior notification is given to the Human Resources Manager, or his designate, and his approval is obtained.
4.09	(a) It is the intent of this contract that a person acting in a supervisory capacity shall not be permitted to performany work that is performedby employeescovered by this contract, except as follows:
(i)	In the instruction or training of employees.
(ii)	In the performance of necessary work when scheduled work is interrupted as a result of any emergency situation, including breakdownsor for relief work, none of which deprives any employee of employment.
(iii)	Insupervisorytraining which does not deprive any employee of employment.
(iv)	In experimental work which does not deprive any employee of employment.
(v)	In the installation of equipment or new processes to the extent required to train or instruct employees which work does not deprive any employee of employment.
— 9 —
4.09	(b) The Company will analyze all project work to determine which projects may have the potential to be performed by bargainingunit employees in lieu of subcontracting said work. This analysis will include the cost and scope of the project, the equipment required,the availability of qualified employees (including back ups), time constraints, and whether the project is to be bid on a time and material basis.
The Company will notify the Chief Steward of any planned project work and meet with him upon request, to review scheduled work and the status of projects in process.
4.10	During the terms of this agreement, neither party shall enter into any agreement or contract with each other which conflicts with or has the effect of changing any of the terms of this agreement.
The patties may, however, agree between themselves to clarify existing contract provisionsor to address and reach agreement concerning matters not covered by this agreement.
Any mutual agreement reached between the Company and the Union will be documented and signed by officials of both parties prior to its application.
4.11	The Company will supply to the Union, on an ongoing basis a list of employees who:
(a)	have attained fifty-five (55) or more working days
(b)	are terminated or have lost their seniority
10
ARTICLES
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	hire, direct, assign, classify, re-classify, transfer, promote, demote and lay off any employee who is subject to the provisions of this Agreement;
(c)	suspend, discharge or otherwise discipline any employee who is subjectto the provisions of this Agreement, subject to the right of the employee concernedto lodge a grievance as provided herein and subject to the provisions herein contained with respect thereto;
(d)	determinethe kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, processes of manufacturing, engineering and designing of its products, processing and production methods, control of materials and practices to be incorporated in the products produced and the extension, limitations, curtailment or cessation of operations; and
(e)	make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by employees, which rulesand regulationsshall not be i ncon-sistent with the express provisions of this agreement; and will be discussed with the Union prior to implementation.
— 11 —
5.02	Without restricting or limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company retains all rights not specifically relinquished or modified by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6 STRIKES AND LOCK OUTS
6.01	There shall be no strike or lock-out so long as this Agreement continues to operate.
6.02	The word "strike" and the word "lock-out"shall be as defined in the Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 7
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	A grievance shall be defined as any difference or dispute between the Company and any seniority employee cf the Company regardingthe interpretation,appli-cation or administration of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable and an allegation that this Agreement has been violated. Seniority employees shall process their grievances in the manner and within the time limits prescribed inthis article and in Article 8 of this Agreement. Once accepted as a grievance, this grievance shall be the property of the Union.
7.02	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this article and the provisions cf Article 8 of this Agreement do not apply to probationary employees or to seasonal employees nor shall the provisions of this article or the provisions of Article 8 of this Agreement be available to the Union on
— 12 —
behalf of any probationary employee or on behalf <f any seasonal employee.
7.03	Any time limit referred to in this article and / or Article 8 ofthisAgreementwithinwhichany proceduresis required to be taken or within which a decision is required to be delivered or within which a notice is required to be given are mandatory and may only be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
7.04	Stepl Complaint Stage
A seniority employee who hasacomplaintshall firstly take the complaint up with his immediate supervisor on that shift, inthat departmentwithin five (5) calendardays of the time when the cause of the complaint occurred. The employee may be accompanied by his Steward, if he so desires. If the complaint is not satisfactorily resolved within five (5) calendar days after the employee has contacted his immediate supervisor, the complaint may then be taken up as a grievance. A copy of the complaint form, whether the complaint is resolved or not resolved. will be forwarded to the chief steward.
Step 2 Grievance Stage
If a seniority employee's complaint is not satisfactorily resolved, the employee concerned may submit a grievance in writing to the appropriatedepartmentmanager,or designate, within two (2) regularworkingdays after receiving the supervisor's response. Within five (5) calendar days after the receipt of the grievance there will be a meeting with the employee concerned and the Chief Steward and / or the appropriate Department Steward, the Department Managerand a Human Resources representative. The Company will pay for the Department
13
Steward's wages for attendance at such meetings provided the grievance meeting occurs during that Steward's scheduled shift. The Company shall deliver its final decision in writing to the employee within five (5) calendar days after the meeting.
7.05	In the case of a grievance alleging the improper discharge of a seniority employee, the discharged employee may submit his grievance in writing to the Human Resources Manager, or his designate, as providedin Step 2 of sub-article 7.04 of this Agreement, within five (5) calendardaysafterthe date of hisdischarge. Thereafter, the provisions of Step 2 of sub-article 7.04 ofthisAgree-ment shall apply.
7.06	If the written decision of the Human Resources Manager, or his designate, as provided for in Step 2 of sub-article 7.04 of this Agreement, is not satisfactory to the employee and provided the complaint and the grievance have been processed in the manner hereinbefore laid down, within the time limits prescribed,the grievance may be taken to arbitration in accordance with Article 8 of this Agreement.
7.07	Byway of illustration, but not by way of limitation, the following shall conclusively be deemed to be just cause for discharge;
(a)	theft or destruction of the Company’s property;
(b)	carelessnessendangeringthe safety of others;
(c)	neglect of duties;
(d)	unauthorized absenteeism;
14
(e)	insubordination;
(f)	fighting, or disorderly conduct;
(g)	consumption of intoxicants or non-prescription drugs while on the job;
(h)	being under the influence of intoxicants or non-prescriptiondrugs while on the job;
(i)	bringing intoxicantsor non-prescriptiondrugs onto the Company premises; and
Q) being in possession of intoxicants or non-prescriptiondrugs on Company premises.
7.08	No grievance may be submitted to arbitration as provided in Article 8 of this Agreementwhich is notfiled or processedwithin the time limits prescribed in this article.
7.09	At any step of this grievance procedure, the Executive Board of the Local Union shall have the final authority in respect to any aggrieved employee covered by this Agreement, to decline to process a grievance, complaint, difficulty or dispute further, if, in the judgement of the Executive Board, such grievance or dispute lacks merit or lacks justification under the terms of this Agreement, or has been adjusted or justified under the terms of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Executive Board. Once the aggrieved employee has been notified either by their Steward or the Union Representativethat their grievance is being dropped because of lack of merit, the aggrieved employee has fifteen (15) calendar days to appeal that decision by sending a letter to the Union President requesting to appear before the Union Executive Board.
15
ARTICLE 8
ARBITRATION
8.01	Eitherpartymay, subjectto Article7 ofthisAgree-ment, notifythe other partyin writing of its desire to submit a grievanceto arbitration.The notice shall be deliveredby the party desiring to submit the grievance to arbitration to the other party within five (5) calendar days after the date on which the Human Resources Manager, or his designate, delivered the written decision as provided in sub-article7.04. Such noticeshallalsocontainthe nameofthe party's appointee to the Board of Arbitration.
8.02	Following the receipt of the notice as provided in sub-article 8.01, the party receivingthe notice shall, within ten (10) calendar days following receipt of such notice, inform the other party of the name of its appointee to the Board of Arbitration.
8.03	The two appointees so appointed shall, within twenty (20) calendar days of the appointment of the second of them, appoint a third person who shall be the Chairpersonof the Boardof Arbitration. If the party receiving the notice as provided in sub-article 8.01 fails to appoint an appointee within the time prescribed in subarticle 8.02, or, if the two (2) appointeesfail to agree upon a Chairpersonwithin the time prescribed,the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour for Ontario upon the request of either party.
8.04	The Board of Arbitration shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision, in writing, and the decision isfinaland bindinguponthe partiesand uponany employee affected by it. The decision of a majority of the
— 16 —
Board of Arbitration is the decision of the Board of Arbitration but, if there is no majority, the decision of the Chairperson shall govern.
8.05	The Boardof Arbitration shall not havejurisdiction to alter, add to, subtractfrom, modify, amend or change anyoftheprovisionsofthisAgreementorto substituteany new provision for any existing provision, or to make any decision which is inconsistentwith any termor provisioned this agreement, or to deal with any matter which is not covered by this Agreement.
8.06	The Company and the Union shall each bear the expenses and fees of their respective appointee to the Boardof Arbitration andthe Company andthe Union shall each pay one half (1/2) of the expenses and fees of the Chairperson.
8.07	The provisions of this article do not apply to probationary employees or to seasonal employees nor shall the provisions of this article be available to the Union onbehalfofanyprobationaryemployeeoron behalf of any seasonal employee.
ARTICLE 9
SENIORITY
9.01	An employee shall be considered a probationary employee until he has worked a total of sixty-five (65) actual days, consecutive or intermittent, within any period of one (1) calendaryear. Forthe purposes of clarity it is expressly understood and agreed that days worked as a seasonal employee will not be includedin calculatingthe
17
sixty-five (65) actual days of work as a probationary employee. A probationaryemployee shall have no seniority. A probationaryemployee who is retainedinthe employ of the Company following completion of the probationary period, aforesaid, shall acquire seniority, shall then become a seniority employee and his name shall be added to the seniority list with a seniority date which is the first date worked in a full time area inthat calendar year. Article 7 and 8 of this Agreement are not applicable to a probationary employee and these articles are not available to the Union on behalf of a probationary employee.
9.02	The Company will prepare and post seniority lists, every six (6) calendar months, which lists will include the name of each seniority employee, that employee's classification, that employee's department, that employee's shift, when applicable,and that employee's senioritydate. A copy of the seniority lists will be sent to the Unionoffice.
9.03	(a) Seniority shall be determinative only as expressly provided in this Agreement.
(b)	Seniority means length of continuousservice with the Company. It entitles the employee to preference in cases of decrease or increase of the working force in accordance with Article 10.02.
9.04	An employee shall lose his seniority and his employment shall be terminated if the employee:
(a)	quits, resigns or retires;
(b)	fails to report for work or fails to notify the Company for two (2) consecutive working days without supplying a reason satisfactory to the Company for such failure;
— 18 —
(c)	is laid off and not recalled for a period of twenty-four (24) months;
(d)	has been laid off and fails to return to work within five (5) working days after recall by the Company; providedthat notice of recall which has been sent to the employee by registered mail at his address on the records of the Company shall conclusively be deemed to have been received by the employee on the fifth (5th) day after it was mailed;
(e)	is discharged and not reinstated pursuant to the provisions of the grievance and arbitration procedurescontained herein;
(f)	overstays a leave of absence granted by the Company without notifying the Company and without supplyinga reason satisfactory to the Company for such failure;
(g)	engages ingainfulemploymentwhile on leave of absence from the Company; or
(h)	leaves work without obtaining a leave of absence, unless the employee suppliesa reason satisfactoryto the Company for not obtaining a leave of absence.
9.05	(a) Seniority will be applied on a “departmental
basis” and each seniority employee will be classified as a member of one of the following Departments:
(1)	Fish Department
(2)	Cook Department
— 19 —
(3)	Vegetable Department
(4)	Packaging Department
(5)	Skilled Trades Department
(6)	Cold Storage Department
(7)	Sanitation Department
9.05	(b) In the event that lay-offoccurs in any department employees' seniority rights will be applied on a plant wide basis in accordance with sub-article 10.02, in that the seniority employee displaces the lowest seniority employee within the general classification regardless of department or shift.
9.06	An employee who becomesa seniority employee, as provided in this Agreement, has the privilegeof choosing their home department and shift by completing the appropriate forms in the Human Resources Department.
9.07	(a) The appointment, selection or promotion of any employee to a position not subject to the provisionsof this Agreement is not covered by this Agreement. If a seniority employee is appointed, selected or promoted to a position which is not subject to the provisions of this Agreement and is later transferred back to a position within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement, such employee shall return to the bargaining unitwith all of the seniority which that employee hadat the time of his appointment, selection or promotionand such employee shall be credited with additional seniority with respect to the time when he was not employed within the said bargaining unit, providedhe returns to the bargaining
20
unit within one (1) year from the time of his appointment, selection or promotion.
9.07	(b) Readmission after one (1) year of a non union
member will be determined by mutual agreement between the Union negotiating committee and the Company. Such readmission will not be subject to the provisions of Article 7 and 8 of this Agreement and are not applicable to such employee.
ARTICLE 10
LAYOFF AND RECALL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL EMPLOYEES
10.01	Inthe event of layoff, the following procedureshall apply:
(a)	The Department, the classification and the shift (where applicable)within which the layoff is to occur will be identified.
(b)	All seasonal employees employed within that classification, on any shift and in any department, where they are presently employed will be laid off first.
(c)	If, all seasonal employeesas identified insubarticle 10.01 (b) are laid off, then probationary employees employed within that classification, on any shift and in any departmentwill be laid off.
(d)	If, all probationaryemployees as identified in sub-article10.01 (c) are laid off, then seniority
— 21 —
employees employed within that classification, that department,and on that shift shall be laid off in inverse order of seniority, provided the employees retained have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
10.02	(a) A seniority employee who has been laid off, in accordancewith sub-article 10.01 (d) shall have the right to displace the most junior seniority employee in the Generalclassification,on a plantwide basis (asdescribed in sub-article 9.05) normally within one (I)working day unless prevented from doing so because of operating circumstances. The foregoing is contingent upon such employee having the ability, willingness and qualifications to perform the work of the employee whom he seeks to displace.
(b) The method of crewing, in order to fulfill the obligations of Article 10, are prescribed in Schedule "B” which is attached to and which forms part of this Agreement.
10.03	When operational circumstances make it necessary to move employees from their scheduled departments, the company may assignthose employees to other departmentsfor the remainder of that day, provided they have the ability and qualificationsto perform the work.
10.04	In the event that there is insufficient skilled work available, the Company may retain at work persons who are classified to perform such skilled work for one (1) working day, and, during such period of retention, such persons will be permitted to perform work normally done by other employeesnotwithstandingthat other employees
22
who have higher senioritythan these persons retainedare laid off.
Smelt Machine Operators and Utility Person (Plant One) may be retainedin the Fish Departmentfor the remainder of the pay period provided the fishing fleets have a reasonable expectation that smelt could be caught. Such employees will not adversely affect employees who are presently working in that department.
10.05	Recall shall be in the inverse order of layoff, providedthe employees recalled have the ability, willing-nessand qualificationsto satisfactorilyperformthejobs to be done.
10.06	Probationary employees shall have no recallrights.
ARTICLE 11
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE COLD STORAGE DEPARTMENT
11.01	(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions in this article apply to employees employed in the Cold Storage Department. Where there is a conflict between any other provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this article, the provisions of this article shall govern.
(b) ColdStorageemployeesassignedtothe Plant One (1) area will take directionfromthe PlantOne Supervisors and those Cold Storage employees will be required to perform all Cold Storage and Dry Warehouse duties therein.
23
(c)	Warehouse persons and the Warehouse Leader classifications are included in the Cold Storage Department and would displaceemployees in the general classification, on a plant wide basis upon lay off.
11.02	A seniority employee in the Cold Storage Department will retain the right to transfer into the General classification in the Fish, Cook, Vegetable or Packaging Departments, with full seniority, provided that such application for transfer is made between September 1st and September 30th of each year and filed with the Human Resources Department. An employee who transfers, in accordance with the foregoing, will be granted his full seniority rights in the Department to which he transferred on commencement of the following calendar year. The provisionsof Article 14 of the CollectiveAgreementdo not apply to such transfer.
11.03	An employee who is transferred by the Company to the Cold Storage Department will be assigned duties in their classification, on a rotating basis, or on straight afternoons as required by the job. Should a straight daytime assignment become available, such assignment will be offered first to the other Cold Storage personnel, in order of departmental seniority, provided that such employee has the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the job to be done. Those Cold Sto rage employeeswhovoluntarilychoose to work straight nights or to go on shift rotation will be excluded from the above provisions.
11.04	(a) Prior to hiring new employees into the Cold Storage Department, the Company will give consideration to employees in other departments. The Company will
24
select such candidates for consideration who warrants training for the job available to him. If any employee is transferred by the Company to the Cold Storage Department his first day of work in the Cold Storage Department shall be his department seniority date, for a period of two
(2)	years. Such employee shall receive credit for all of his previousseniority with the Companyfor vacation, plantwide lay off and recall purposes. Upon completion of said two (2) year period, his plantwideseniority date shall become his Cold Storage Department seniority date.
(b) A seniority employee in the Cold Storage Departmentwho wishes to transferfrom one “area” of the Department to another “area” of the department must make application for such transfer, in writing, to the Human Resources Department between September 1 st and September 30th of each year. The approval of any such request is subject tu the requirementthat the Company have a junior employee within the “area” applied to who has the same classification. Such junior employee will be re-assigned duties in the vacated area upon com-mencementofthe following calendar year. The employee who requested the transfer in accordance with this subarticle will be assigned duties in the new area upon commencement of the following calendar year. For pur-posesofthis sub-article “area" shall meaneither“Plantl”, “North End” or the “Distribution Centre.”
11.05	(a) Should overtime or a premium pay assignment occur in the Cold Storage Department on a Saturday, Sunday or on a Paid Holiday, it shall first be assigned to Cold Storage employees who are regularly employed in the Plant where such overtime occurs.
25
(b)	Such overtimewill be offered equally throughout the year on a rotating basis starting with the most senior employee and continuing to the most junior employeeswho havethe ability, willingnessand qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
(c)	Any employee who does not desire such overtime and premium pay assignmentsshall not be required to accept such assignments; however, suchemployee will be credited with having worked such overtime; for equal distribution of overtime purposes only.
(d)	Ifnoneofthe employees desire suchovertime then such overtime assignments will be worked by the most junior employees in the department who have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
(e)	Should an employee within a certain classifi-cationhavethe opportunityto work overtimeinadvance of the normal schedule of overtime rotation, such employee will be credited to having worked that rotation.
11.06	The Company will provide Cold Storage employees with the following:
•	One (1) full protective suit each year
•	Gloves as needed
• An annual reimbursement of up to sixty dollars ($60.00) for the purchase of approved footwear, upon submission of a receipt.
26
ARTICLE 12
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE SANITATION DEPARTMENT
12.01	Notwithstandinganything contained inthis Agreement, the following conditions shall apply to members of the Sanitation Department:
(a)	A member of the Sanitation Department will exercise his seniority rights in the General Worker classificationwithin the Companywhen not required in his classification.
(b)	A member of the Sanitation Department who has been a member of the Sanitation Department for a periodof not less than one (1) year and who no longer wishes to be a member of the Sanitation Department must advise the Company of this fact, in writing, between the 1st day of September and the 30th day of September in any year. As of the 1st day of January of the following year, he will no longer be classified as a member of the Sanitation Departmentand he will not be allocated work in the Sanitation Department. Only one (1) employee per year will be allowed to transfer in accordancewith the foregoing. If more than one seniority employee applies, the one with the greatest plant wide seniority will be allowed to transfer.
12.02	Prior to hiring new employees into the Sanitation Department, the Company will give considerationto em— 27 —
ployees in other departments. The Company will select suchcandidatefor considerationwho warrantstrainingfor the job available to him.
12.03	The Company will provide Sanitation employees with an annual reimbursementofuptosixtydollars($60.00) for the purchaseof approvedfootwear uponsubmission of a receipt.
ARTICLE 13 SHIFT TRANSFER
13.01	A seniority employee will have the privilege of transferring from one shift to another on an annual basis, within his department, subject to the conditions hereinafter contained.
13.02	Applicationfor shift transfer, within a department, will be accepted between September 1st and September 30th of each year and must be filed, in writing, with the Human Resources Department. Application forms will be supplied by the Company and may be obtained from the Human Resources Department.
13.03	The privilege of transferring from one shift to another will only apply to production personnel whose seniority rights apply to one of the following Departments:
(1)	Fish Department
(2)	Cook Department
(3)	Vegetable Department
(4)	Packaging Department
28
13.04	A seniority employee will be grantedhisfull seniority rights on the shift to which he is transferred within the department wherein his rights apply upon commencement of the following calendar year.
13.05	A seniority employee who transfers from one shift to another shift in accordance with this article, will be transferred on a one for one basis. The most junior employee in the same classification as the person who is transferring shifts will be reassigned to fill the vacancy created by the transfer.
13.06	If the seniority of an employee whose shift is transferredin accordance with this article is identicalto an employee who is presently on the shift to which such employee transferred, the transferred employee'ssenior-ity will follow the seniority of the other employee.
13.07	Following a complete tabulation of these shift transfers, the Company and the Union will review the position of each transfer to ensure the most junior employee is displaced prior to a senior employee displaced out of his / her shift.
ARTICLE 14
DEPARTMENTTRANSFER
14.01	A seniority employee will have the privilege of transferringfrom one Departmentto another on an annual basis, subject to the conditions hereinafter contained.
14.02	Applications for transfer from one Department to another will be accepted between September 1st and September30th of each year and must be filed, in writing,
— 29 —
with the HumanResources Department.Application forms will be supplied by the Company and may be obtained from the Human Resources Department.
14.03	The privilege of transferringfrom one Department to anotherwill only apply to production personnel whose seniority rightsapplyto one ofthefollowing Departments:
(1)	Fish Department
(2)	Cook Department
(3)	Vegetable Department
(4)	Packaging Department
14.04	A seniority employee will be granted hisfull seniority rights in the Department to which he transferred upon commencement of the following calendar year. He will be offered work in the Department in his classification and consistentwith his ability, willingness and qualificationsto satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
A seniority employee who transfers from one department to another in accordance with this Article, will be transferred on a one-for-one basis. The mostjunior employee inthe same classificationas the person who istransferring departments,will be reassignedto fill the vacancy created by the transfer.
14.05	If the seniority of an employee who is transferred in accordance with this article is identical to an employee who is presently in the department to which such employee transferred, the transferred employee's seniority will follow the seniority of the other employee.
30
14,06	Following a complete tabulation of these depart-menttransfers, the Companyand the Unionwill reviewthe position of each transfer to ensure the most junior employee is displaced prior to a senior employee displaced out of his / her department.
ARTICLE 15
JOB POSTING
15.01	When a permanent vacancy occurs within the bargaining unit described in Article 3 of this Agreement, withinaclassification above the GeneralClassification.as the result of the death, retirement,resignationof a seniority employee or the creation of a new job, the Company will, if it decides to fill the vacancy, post notice of the vacancy for a period of five (5) calendar days in order to allow seniority employees to apply. All postings and the names of the successful applicants will be posted on the job posting bulletin boards and copies will be given to the Chief Steward.
15.02	Prior to posting permanent vacancies, the job will be offered to:
The most senior “back-up” employee for that job classification from the department where the vacancy occurs;
If, after the above step is followed, and the vacancy is not filled, the Company will post the vacancy as described in sub-article 15.01. The Company will selectthe candidate by considering:
31
(a)	The most senior backup in that job classification, from the plant wide seniority list.
(b)	The requirements of the posted position and the qualifications, skill, experienceand ability of the applicant(s) to satisfactorily performthe requirements of the posted position; and,
(c)	Seniority.
When factor (b) is relatively equal as between two (2) or more applicants, factor (c) will govern.
15.03	If noapplicationsare receivedfrom seniority em-ployeesor if noneoftheapplicantsisawardedthe posted vacancy, the Company may then fill the vacancy in such manner as it determines.
15.04	The Company will post “Backup” positions for classified jobs. Successful candidateswill be selected in the following manner:
(a)	The most senior applicant not currently holding a backup position, in the general classification, in the department where the vacancy occurs.
(b)	The most senior applicant not currently holding a backup position, in the general classification on the plant wide seniority list.
(c)	The most senior applicant in the department where the vacancy occurs.
(d)	The most senior applicant on the plant wide seniority list.
32
Notwithstandingthe above steps, the successful candidate must possess the basic qualifications, skill and ability requiredto satisfactorilytrain to perform the duties of the job.
In the event there are two (2) or more applicants with relatively equal qualifications, skill and ability, the most senior applicant will be given preference.
15.05	An employee who is a member of a classification other than the General classification and who no longer wishes to remain a member of that classification must advise the Companyofthisfact, inwriting, betweenthe 1 st day of September and the 30th day of September in any year. As of the 1 st day of January in the following year, such employee will no longer be so classified and will be classified as a member of the General Classification.
15.06	An employee who is awarded a postedposition in accordance with the provisions of this article and who, at his option or at the option of the Company, is not retained in the posted position, following the trial period, will be transferred back to the department and the shift and the classification where he was working immediately prior to beingawardedthe postedpositionand he will beallocated work in that department and on that shift and the classification in accordance with his seniority and his ability, willingness and qualificationsto satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done.
15.07	The successful applicant for a classified position will not be eligible to apply for another classified posted vacancy for a periodof six (6Jmonths after being awarded the posted vacancy.
33
15.08	The Classification rate of pay for the posted position will be adjusted on the first day worked in that job following the trial period.
15.09	Notwithstandinganything contained in this Article or in this Agreement, the following provisions will apply:
(a)	All postings will be awarded as soon as possible and when jobs are filled, successful bidderswill receivenecessarytrainingto competently perform the duties of the job under the direction of a qualified person until completion, without depriving other classified employees inthatclassifi cationoftheirsenior-ity rights.
(b)	The requirements of a newly created job will be determined by a committee consisting of equal numbers of Unionand Company representatives. The “Neutralizer” or other agreed upon job evaluation system will be utilized to evaluatethejob grade of thatnewpositionand will be reviewed by the committee prior to establishing a pay rate for that job.
(c)	Employees in “backup” positions will be updated on these jobs periodically; these employees in updating assignments will be paidthe general rateof pay regardlessof their current classification or their rateof pay. Classified employeesdisplaced by these updating assignments in those jobs will be assigned general work without affecting their classified rate of pay.
34
(d)	The Company is willing to appoint one management person to work with the Chief Steward to write the Job Safety Analysis/ Job Descriptionswith assistance of employees in those departments. The Union will promote and support the successful completion of the above by assisting in the communication of this process.
15.1O	Backup positionswillonly replacepermanent classified employees in their absence, except as provided in section 4.09 (b).
ARTICLE 16
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND WORKING CONDITIONS
16.01	Hoursofworkshallbescheduledbythe Company in accordance with its requirements.
16.02	All overtime and premium pay assignments with the exception of the seasonal work as described in sub-article 27.01 (unless that seasonal work was performed by a seniorityemployee), which occur in a Department on a Saturday, Sunday, or Paid Holiday, will be assigned to seniority employees who have the ability, willingness and qualificationsto satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done, prior to assigning such work to other employees. For the purposes of this article, employees who are regularly employed in production areas doing productionwork will be given first priority for overtime and premium pay assignments in production areas to do production work which occurs on a Saturday, Sunday or
— 35 —
Paid Holidays prior to assigning such work to employees in the Warehouse, Stockroom or Janitor classifications.
16.03	Any employee who does not desire overtime and premium pay assignmentsshall not be requiredto accept such assignments provided the employee has, prior to when the overtime and premium pay assignments occur, fileda request, inwriting,with his supervisor to be excused from the overtime and premium pay assignments. However, recognizing that production schedules and other factors may make it impossibleto approve every request, it is recognized that the Company may have to limit the number of requestswhich can be approved. In any week, only ten percent (10%) of the employees on the seniority list, within a classification, shall, on a progressive basis (i.e., first week - first ten percent (10%); second week -second ten percent (10%); etc.) be eligible to make such requests. If, in any week, all employees within the classification who are eligible for that week do not make such a request, additional employeeson the seniority list, within the classification, up to a total often percent (10%) of the employees in the classification will, in accordance with seniority, then be eligible to make such a request.
16.04	All overtimeand premium payassignments scheduled by the Company must be worked by the employee assigned unless the employee has permission from the appropriate Company official to be absent from work.
16.05	All hours actually worked by an employee in excess of eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday, both inclusive, shall be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee’s regular straighttime rate of pay.
36
16.06	All hours actually worked by an employee on a Saturday or on a Sunday shall Depaid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) timesthe employee's regularstraighttime rate of pay.
16.07	In the event that an employee reports for work at his regulartime on his regularshift, Mondayto Friday,both inclusive, without having been previously advised not to reportfor work, he will be given three (3) hours of work at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay. If no work is available, he will be paidthe equivalent of three (3) hours at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay. As a condition of payment, the employee shall perform any available work which he is capable of performing and which he is requested to perform.
This shall not apply in the event of an interruption of scheduled work, because of conditions out of the Company's control. The Company will, as soon as possible, determine if work cannot be made available and will proceed i mmediatelyto notify all the employeesaffected.
16.08	The following provisions apply to overtime and premium pay assignments:
(a)	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, overtime and premiumpayassignments will be assigned firstly to seniority employees who are currently working in the Department and on the shift where such overtime or premium pay assignments occur, provided they have the ability, willingness and qualifications to satisfactorily perform the jobs to be done, prior to assigning such work to other employees.
37
Eligibility for this overtime will be established by an employee actually working on a Friday to beentitledto Saturday overtime, on a Thursday to beentitledto Friday Paid Holiday overtime. They mustalso be scheduledMondayto be entitled for Sunday overtime, and Tuesday for Monday Paid Holiday overtime.
Seasonal employees and / or seniority employees who work in the "seasonal area" will be eligible for weekend overtime per the provisions outlined above.
Following the above procedure, if it is found there are insufficient employees available within a department wherein overtime work and premium pay assignments are required, the additional work will be assignedto seniority employeeswho sign thevoluntary overtime sheet for that department.
The overtime sheet will be made available every Monday and taken down at the end of the shift on Wednesday night during the week when overtime will occur.
Volunteers for such overtime will be selected by plantwide seniority providedthey have the ability to perform the jobs to be done.
(b)	In the event that overtime is scheduled in advance of a regular shift, such overtime will be assigned to those employees who are scheduled to work in that Department on the same following shift of work.
— 38 —
(c)	Notwithstanding anything contained in this article or this Agreement, should overtime or a premium pay assignment occur following a shift, it will be assigned to those employees who performed those duties on the shift immediately preceding the overtime or premium pay assignment occurring, prior to assigning such work to other employees and providedthat such other employeeshave the ability, willingness, and qualifications to satisfactorilyperformthejobs to be done. This overtime will not interfere with or displace those employeeswho are regularly scheduled to work on the shift on which the overtime or premium pay assignment occurred.
16.09	An employee who wants permissionto be absent from work, for a reason that is known to him prior to the commencement of his scheduled shift, must receive permission to be absent from his supervisor prior to the commencementof his scheduledshift. The permissionof the supervisor will not be unreasonably refused.
Employees who leave and return during their shift must punch out when leaving and punch back in upon their return.
16.10	If an employee is unable to report to work, for any reason, he shall notify his supervisor, or if the employee is unable to contact his supervisor, the Human Resources Department, as soon as possible, and, in any event, prior to the commencement of his scheduled shift. The employee shall advise his supervisor, or the Human Resources Department, as the case may be, why he is
39
unable to reportforworkand when he expectsto reportfor work.
16.11	(a) When an employee is absent due to work related injury / illness:
« the employee must be seen by a medical practitioner immediately following an injury/ illness causing an absence from work.
•	following this visit, the 'Omstead Medical Report Form" confirming his visitation must be received by the Loss Control Manager, or his designate, and
•	such "Omstead Medical Report Form" must includethetype of injury/illness, the expected duration and the medical restrictions, if any.
(b)	When an employee is absent due to a nonwork related injury / illness for more than three (3) consecutive working days:
•	the "Omstead Medical Report Form" must be received by the Loss Control Manager, or designate, no laterthan one (1) week from the beginning of the absence; and,
• such "Omstead Medical Report Form" must include the type of injury / illness and the expected duration.
(c)	Prior to returning to work, following an absencedueto injury/illness, the Company must receive, within a reasonable time period before the expected return, the Omstead Medical Report Form identifying the
— 40 —
employee's date of return and confirming that such an employee can return to regular duties; or,
• if regular duties cannot be performed, the Omstead Medical Report Form must include specific information identifying such employee's medical restrictions in order for such employee to receive consideration for modified work. A form is available in the Loss Control or Human Resources department, for this purpose and the Company will, upon receipt of a completed Omstead Medical Report Form, reimburse the employee the cost of obtaining the completed form. The Company will issue payment upon submission of a receipt.
(d)	A committee with equal representation from the Company and the Union will finalize the "Modified Work Policy"and "Returnto Work Procedures"by November t, 1995 which shall become part of the Company's Health & Safety Policy Manual.
Return-To-Work Interviews,and any follow up meetings establishedduringthereturn-to-worki nterviewwillbeheld with all workers who cannot perform regular duties, in accordance with said "Return to Work Procedures".
16.12	Any medical examination requested by the Company shall be promptly complied with by all employees. The Company shall pay for all such examinations. The Company reserves the right to select its own medical examiner or physician and the Union may, if in its opinion an injustice has been done to an employee, have such employee re-examined at the Union's expense.
— 41 —
16.13	It shall bethedutyofeveryemployeetoadvisethe Company of hisaddressand telephone numberand any changes thereto. If an employee fails to do so, the Company will not be liable for the employee’s failure to receive notice of recall or any other notice issued to the employee by the Company. The Company will send suchchanges to the Union hall on an ongoing basis.
16.14	There will be a seventeen cents ($.17) perhour premium on the afternoon or second shift for all hours of work performed on such shift and twenty-five ($.25) per hour premiumon the evening or third shift for all hoursof work performed on such shift.
16.15	There shall be no pyramidingof any premium pay, including but not limited to, overtimeand paid holiday pay.
16.16	An employee who is called back to work after completing his normal shift will be paid for all hours worked at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times his regular straight time rate of pay, subject to a minimum payment of three (3) hours of pay at his regular straight time rate of pay. In order to qualify for the minimum payment, the employee must perform such duties as are assigned to him.
16.17	An employee who is called in to work on a Saturday,on a Sunday or on a Paid Holidaywill be paidfor all hours worked at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times his regular straight time rate of pay, subject to a minimum payment of three (3) hours of pay at his regular straighttime rate of pay. Inordertoqualifyforthe minimum payment, the employee must perform such duties as are assigned to him.
42
16.18	The Company will make reasonable efforts to train and keep their employees up to date on new equipment before hiring new employees. The Company will cooperate with employees with respect to new ideas and techniques.
16.19	Where rotation systems are being used, all workers will follow said rotationunlessthey are preventedfrom doing so by their medical restrictions. The Company and the Union will meet to further reviewjob rotation issues in an effort to improve upon the current practices.
16.20	An employee who replacesanother employee on a temporary basis will return to their previous position upon the return of that employee.
ARTICLE 17
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE SKILLED TRADES DEPARTMENT
17.01	(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions in this article apply to employees employed in the Skilled Trades Department. Where there is a conflict between any other provision of this Agreement the provisions of this article shall govern.
(b)	The Stockroom Leader position is included in the Skilled Trades Department. Such employee will displace employees on a plant wide basis upon lay off.
17.02	Skilled Trades employees, under the direction of the production supervisor in the area to which they are assigned, will perform the duties necessary to provide production with the support required.
43
17.03	The Companywill pay SkilledTrades employees, including new hires, according to the job grade structure, as outlined herein. Upgradingof Skilled Trades employees will be according to the position held within this job grade structure. (see chart next page)
17.04	All SkilledTrades Leaderswill receive sixty cents ($.60) perhourinadditiontotheirregularstraighttime rate of pay.
17.05	The supervisor of the Skilled Trades Department will schedule the shifts and the assignmentsto be carried out by each employee under their authority. Such schedule of shifts will be made in advance with a copy of such schedule given to each employee of the Department by his supervisor. Any adjustments to the schedule for entitled vacation or emergency requirements must be directed through the Department supervisor. Supervisors will prepare a listingfor plant coverage as requiredby the Company during the Christmas and New Year's holiday break in advance of such period.
17.06	Prior to hiring new employees into the Skilled Trades Department, the Company will give consideration to employeesinother Departments. If any employee from another Department is transferred by the Company to the Skilled Trades Department, his first day of work in the Skilled Trades Department shall be his seniority date, providedhowever,that such employee shall receivecredit for all of his previousseniority for vacation purposes only. The Company will select such candidatefor consideration who warrants training for the job available to him. The following conditions will apply to such person:
44
I
■f*
U1
I
7.03 SKILLED TRADES JOB GIRADE STRUCTURE IPAY SCALE
GRADE/ ;ffecttvedat!	REFRIGERATION	ELECTRICAL	MOBILE MECHANIC/ MACHINIST	MAINTENANCE MECHANICS
A	3rdCiass and B Refrigeration	Licenced Joumeyperson with one year at Omstead (IndVConst)	Licenced Joumeyperson with one year m. M e a d [A' Mechanic/Machinist)	Licenced Joumeyperson with cne year aL Omstead (Millwright)
APRIL 1 1995	$18.00	$18.00	$17.50	$16.76
1996	$18.15	$18.15	$17.65	$16.91
1997	$18.30	$18.30	$17.80	$17.06
1998	$18.45	$18.45	$17.95	$17.21
B	4th Class andB Refrigeration OR 3rd Class Alone	Licenced Joumeyperson with 0 years al Omstead OR completed 2 years Apprentice with 1 year Omstead Electrical	Licenced Joumeyperson with 0years m.Omstead OR completed 2 years Apprentice with 1 year Omstead as 'A' Mechanic or Machinist	Licenced Joumeyperson with 0 years at Omstead OR completed 2 years year Mead Maintenance
APRIL 1 1995	$17.00	$17.00	$16.50	$16.26
1996	$17.15	$17.15	$16.65	$16.41
1997	$17.30	$17.30	$16.80	$16.56
1998	$17.45	$17.45	$16.95	$16.71
C	B Refrigeration OR 4th Class Alone	1 year Electrical Apprentice Comoleted at Omstead	1 year 'A' Mechanic or Machinist Apprentice Completed at Omstead	1 year Millwright Apprentice completed at Omstead and
APRIL 1 1995	$16.00	$16.00	$15.50	Stockroom Keeper $15.76
1996	$16.15	$16.15	$15.65	$15.91
1997	$16.30	$16.30	$15.80	$16.06
1998	$16.45	$16.45	$15.95	$16.21
D	New Apprentice (Refrigeration)	New Apprentice (Electrical)	New Apprentice fA' Mechanic	New Millwright Apprentice
APRIL 1 1995	$13.20	$13.20	or Machine) $13.20	$13.20
1996	$13.45	$13.45	$13.45	$13.45
1997	$13.70	$13.70	$13.70	$13.70
1998	$14.05	$14.05	$14.05	aiarw
(a)	An employee will receive the rate of pay ac-cordingtothe SkilledTradesJobGrade Structure / Pay Scale outlined in sub-article 17.03.
(b)	An initial review upon completion of a two (2) week trial period will determine further continuance of the employee into the program.
(c)	An employee who warrants continued training, as determined by the Company, will continue the Basic Apprenticeship Training Program. Upon completion of this period, an employee will receivethe prevailing categorized rates applied to members of the Skilled Trades Department.
(d)	It is agreed by both parties to this Agreement that an employee, who has been given consideration under this provision to transfer to the SkilledTrades Department, will retainthe right to transfer back into the General Classification, with full seniority, provided that such application for transfer is made between September 1st and September 30th of each year and filed with the Human Resources Department.
(e)	Also, should the employee who transferredto the Skilled Trades Department not qualify within a six (6) month period of time, the Company may transfer the employee back to the classification that employee previously held, with full seniority in the same Department and on the same shift from where he came.
46
17.07	A new employee hired into the Skilled Trades Department who is unable to meet the standards of performance as determined by the Company during the first six (6) months of employment, will not be retained in the SkilledTrades Department. He will, providedhowever that he has completed his probationary period, be given the opportunity for work in the General Classification in another Department on the shift as determined by the Company, providedthat he is able, willing, and qualifiedto do the work offered to him. The employee's first day of work in the General Classification will be his seniority date in that group, providedhowever, that such employee shall receive credit for all of his previous seniority for vacation purposes only.
17.08	(a) Educational Courses
The Companywill sponsor company approvedcourses by reimbursing the employee for tuition fees and required course booksafterthe successfulcompletionof the course and by reimbursing mileage costs. In order to qualify for reimbursement from the Company, the employee must submit receipts confirming payment. The Company will apply the above in a consistent and fair manner with all employees within the Skilled Trades Department.
(b) The Company recognizes the need to keep Skilled Trades department employees current on new equipment and will endeavour to do so.
17.09	Overtime
(a) When practical, overtime within the Skilled Trades Department on a Saturday, Sunday of Paid Holiday will be offeredto personnelwithin the Department who last performed these duties in the area and on the
— 47 —
regular shift where the overtime occurs, provided such employees belong to that area and have the qualifications to do the work. Ifthis overtime is not desired by those who qualify under the above conditions, the overtime will be offered to the personnel within that area, who last performed these duties in the area where the overtime occurs, provided such employees have the qualifications to do the work. Regular shift shall mean 1st, 2nd or 3rd shift. For the purposes of this sub-article and sub-article
17.10	"area" shall mean either Cook, Vegetable, Packaging,Fish, MobileShop, Machinist,Refrigerationor Electrical.
(b)	If this overtime is not desired by those who qualify under the above conditions, then the whole Skilled Trades Departmentbecomes eligible, based on seniority, qualifications and willingness to perform the jobs to be done.
(c)	In order to qualify for such overtime, the seniority employee must sign the voluntary overtime sheet in the plant they are based, before Wednesday at noon, of the week when the overtime will occur. Eligibility for such overtime is based on the plantwhere the overtime occurs first, then the other plant, but not limited by shift unless otherwise specified. Those employees who signed the voluntary overtime sheet and are required to work overtime, will be notified by the supervisor or designate priorto Thursday noon, before the weekend where the overtime occurs. The weekly overtime sheet will be posted by the Company immediately after the removal of the previous weeks' sheet and will be posted at both Plant One (1) and Plant Two (2) maintenance shops.
48
(d)	If, for any reason, the Company needs more workers to perform the jobs to be done on Saturday, Sunday or Paid Holidays they may schedule the most junior employee(s) and move up the seniority list until the required needs are met.
Inorder to qualify, the employee must havethe necessary skills to performthejobs to be done and the Companywill follow the Employment Standards Act when scheduling employees for overtime. Overtime may be cancelled by the Company at any time prior to the beginning of the overtime shift.
(e)	Overtime which occurs immediatelyfollowing a regularshift and of a duration of lessthan four (4) hours, will be allocated to the personnel within the Department who were on duty for the full shift immediately prior to the overtime occurrence, based on seniority, qualifications and willingness to perform the jobs to be done. This overtime will beallocated,uponapprovalof the supervisor in charge, based on an estimation of the time required to complete the job.
Where overtime work is beyond the four (4) hours specified above, the supervisor or his designatewill contact the appropriate employee who is scheduled for the following shift and offer that employee the opportunity to come in and continue that overtime work.
17,10	Entitled Vacation
Vacations will be granted to members of the Skilled Trades Departmentin accordance with the Vacationswith Pay article in this Agreement. Provided, however, that during the period of June 15thto September 15thof each year, the Company will allow each seniority employee
— 49 —
from each area to be on vacationfor a minimum of one (1) week in this period of time.
17.11	(a) Employees of the Skilled Trades Department shall be required to wear safety boots while at work. The Company will provide an annual reimbursement of up to sixty dollars ($60.00) for the purchase of approved safety footwear upon submission of a receipt.
(b)	The Company will provide each Skilled Trades Employee with five (5) coveralls or shop coats. These will be replaced upon submission of damaged garments.
(c)	The Company will provide proper clothing for Skilled Trades employees who are required to work in the Cold Storage area. This clothing will be replaced upon submission of a damaged garment.
17.12	A Skilled Trades Department employee who is called back to work after completing his normal shift or who is called into work on a Saturday, on a Sunday or on a Paid Holidaywill be paid, for all hoursworked, at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) his regular straighttime rate of pay, subject to a minimum payment of three (3) hours of pay at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times his regular straight time rate of pay. In order to qualify for the minimum payment, the employee must perform such duties as are assigned to him.
17.13	A seniority employee inthe Skilled Trades Department who wishes to transfer from one area of the Departmentto anotherarea of the Department must make application for such transfer, in writing, to the Human Resources Department between September 1st and September 30th of each year. The approval of any such
50
request is subject to the requirement that the Company have the requisitequalified personnelin each area and to the requirement that there be an employee in the area applied to who will voluntarily transfer to the other area. An employee who transfers in accordance with this subarticle will be assigned duties in the new area upon commencement of the following calendar year. For the purposesofthissub-article“area”shallmeaneither”Fish, Cook, Vegetable, Packaging, Mobile Shop, Machinist, Refrigerationor Electrical”.
17.14	A seniority employee inthe Skilled Trades Department shall have the privilege to transfer into the General Classification in another Department, with full seniority, provided that such application for transfer is made between September 1st and September 30th of each year and filed with the Human Resources Department. An employee who transfers into the General Classification of another Department, in accordance with the foregoing, will be grantedhis full seniority rights inthe Departmentto which he transferred on commencement of the following calendar year. The provisionsof Article 14 of the Collective Agreement do not apply to such transfer. Only one employee per year will be allowed to transfer in accordance with the foregoing. If more than one seniority employee applies, the one with the greatest seniority will be allowed to transfer.
17.15	All Refrigeration personnel will work on all three shifts on an equal rotating basis except that the Leader will be assigned to work the day shift in the absence of the supervisor.
51
ARTICLE 18
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
18.01	A leave of absence for good and valid reasons may be granted by the Company to a seniority employee upon writtenapplicationbeingmadetherefore. Prior to the Company considering a leave of absence request, all vacation entitlements for that employee must be taken first, unless the request for leave is due to a denial of requested vacation in accordance with section 24.07 (c). A leave of absence, if granted, shall be without pay and benefits. A request for a leave of absence will be considered by the Company only when such request is made in writing, specifyingthe reasontherefore and the durationof the leave of absence requested. Such written request must be delivered to the Company not less than one (1) month in advance of the commencementof the requested leave of absence; provided, however, that the provision for advance notice may be waived by the Company in cases of emergency.
18.02	(a) The Company shall, when presented with a request in writing from the Unionat leastfour (4) weeks in advance of when the leave of absence is to commence, grant a leave of absence without pay to a Steward for a period notto exceedten (10) working daysforthe purpose of Union business such as conventions, delegations and seminars. The requestshall state the purpose ofthe leave of absence and the length thereof.The maximum number of working days which can be taken in a year under this sub-article shall not exceed twenty (20) working days in the aggregate in any period of twelve (12) calendar months, excluding Executive, Membership and Negotiating meetings.
52
(b)	The Company shall, when presented with a request in writing from the employee at least four (4) weeks in advance of when the leave of absence is to commence, grant a leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceedtwo (2) years to a seniority employee who is elected to a full-time position with the Union. The employee's seniority shall continue to accumulate during the leave of absence.
Such employee will have the privilege to continue contributions to the company for benefit coverages during this period.
18.03	An employee who has been granted a leave of absence shall not, during the period of the leave of absence, engage in gainful employment for any other person, firm or corporation. The failure to comply with this provision will result in the termination of that employee's employment with the Company.
18.04	The decision to grant or not to grant a leave of absence rests solely with the Company. The refusal to grant a leave of absence and /or any conditions imposed by the Company with respect thereto shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement. In cases of emergency, a request for leave of absence will not be unreasonably refused.
18.05	When a leave of absence is requested, the Company will give its answer within five (^working days. In an emergency situation, the Company will give its answer as quickly as possible.
53
ARTICLE 19 BULLETIN BOARDS
19.01	The Company will permit posting of notices of employee meetings or functions on bulletin boards conspicuously placed and provided for that purpose.
19.02	All notices must be signed by the appropriate Company officiai prior to being posted on the bulletin boards.
ARTICLE 20
JURY DUTY
20.01	The Company shall grant a leave of absence to a seniority employee who is required to serve as a juror or who is subpoenaedto appear in any court as a witness. The Company shall pay to such seniority employee the difference between the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay and the payment the employee received for attending as a juror or a subpoenaed witness. In order to qualify for payment from the Company, the employee must submit proof of service and the amount of pay received.
ARTICLE 21
WAGES
21.01	The wage rates to be paid to seniority employees, save and except seniority employees who are employed in the Skilled Trades Department, are as prescribed in Schedule “A” which is attached to and which forms pari of this Agreement.
54
ARTICLE 22
BEREAVEMENTLEAVE
22.01	Intheeventofthedeathofa memberof a seniority employee’s immediate family, the Company will grant, upon application made by the employee, up to three (3) days leave of absence, with pay at the employee'sregular straight time rate of pay, up to and including the day after the funeral, provided that such days are regular working days upon which the employee would have otherwise been scheduled to work. To be eligible for payment hereunder, the employee must, if requested by the Company, provide satisfactory evidence of death. The phrase “immediate family” shall conclusively mean the spouse, son, daughter, mother, father, brother, sister, step-mother, step-father, step-son, step-daughter, mother-in-law,father-in-law, brother-in-law,sister-in-law, grandchild, grandmother or grandfather of the seniority employee.
ARTICLE 23
PAID HOLIDAYS
23.01	Seniority employees shall be entitledto the following paid holidays with pay at their regular straight time hourly rate of pay:
New Year's Day
Heritage Day (2nd Monday in February)
Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Holiday Labour Day
55
Thanksgiving Day
The Day Before Christmas Day
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
23.02	If any seniority employee is required to work on any of the above Holidays, he shall be paid time and one-half (1-1/2) for the time worked in addition to the Holiday Pay.
23.03	Each paid holiday will be observed on the day on which the paid holidayoccurs unless the Company designates another day as the day on which the paid holiday is to be observed, in which event, the paid holiday will be observed on the day designated by the Company and not on the day on which it occurs.
23.04	It is agreed that all seniority employees shall be paid a full regularday's pay atthe employee's appropriate hourly rate for the above mentioned Holidays. A regular day for this purpose shall be eight (8) hours.
23.05	Eligibility for the above named Holidays shall be subject to the following conditions:
(a)	The employee who isavailableforworkon his scheduled shift preceding and following the Holiday, or when the employee has the consent of the Company to be absent, but, notin excess of fourteen (14) days.
(b)	An employee who is ill or injured upto twelve (12) working days prior and / or following the Holidayshall be paidforthe Holiday, providing he supplies the Company with a Doctor's certificate if required.
— 56 —
(c)	In order to qualify for pay for the Holidays as above, the employee's scheduledworking day hereinbefore referred to must fall within ten (10) working days before and within ten (10) working days after the said Holiday.
(d)	Forthe purpose of clauses a, b, andc, above, the days between Boxing Day and NewYear’s Day shall not be counted.
23.06	Notwithstanding the provisions of this article, the Company will not pay paid holiday pay to any employee who has been paid Worker's Compensation for the paid holiday.
ARTICLE 24 VACATION WITH PAY
24.01	Seniority employees shall be entitled to vacation as provided in this article.
24.02	Vacations shall be granted in the vacation year following the vacation year in which it was earned. Forthe purposes of this article, the vacation year shall mean the twelve (12) month period commencingon the employee's date of hire or on the employee's anniversary date of hire, as the case may be, and ending on the day preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in the following year. The phrase “date of hire” shall conclusively be interpreted to mean the employee's seniority date.
24.03	All seniority employees with more than one (1) year but less than five (5) years seniority as of their anniversary date of hire ineachyear, shall receivelwo (2)
— 57 —
weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be four percent (4%) of the employee's total earningsinthetwelve
(12)	months preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.04	All seniority employees with more than five (5) years seniority as of their anniversarydate of hire in each year, shall receive three (3) weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be six percent (6%) of the employee's total earnings in the twelve (12) months preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.05	All seniority employees with more than thirteen
(13)	years seniority as of their anniversary date of hire in each year, shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be eight percent (8%) of the employee’s total earnings in the twelve (12) months preceding the employees anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.06	All seniority employees with more than twenty-two (22) years seniority as of their anniversary date of hire in each year, shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be ten percent (10%) of the employee’s total earnings in the twelve (12) months preceding the employee's anniversary date of hire in each year.
24.07	(a) The Company will make every effort to grant vacations at times requested by the employees. However, recognizing that production schedules and other factors may make it impossible to approve vacation, as requested,itisrecognizedthat itmay be necessary to limit the number of employeeswho may be on vacation at any one time or to not approve vacation as requested.
58
(b)	The Company,will, totheextentpossible, give priority to employees’ vacation request between January 16th and July 14th of each year, on a “first-come - first serve” basis allowing for a ten (10) day waiting period. During the ten (10) days following the application for a vacation, should a more senior employee apply for the same period of vacation, priority will begiventothe more senioremployee. Once the ten (10) day waiting period is over, if the vacation request is granted, no senior employee will be entitled to claim priority over a more junior employee with respect to the vacation time granted.
(c)	The Company may require employees to take up to two (2) weeks of their vacation entitlement between July 15th and January 15thof each year. This is to apply to all departments. Of the vacation entitlement allotted to each employee, one (1) week must be held back to be scheduled by the company, as necessary.
Employees who apply and are granted vacation entitlement betweenJuly 15th and January 15thwill be considered as to have mettheir obligation as to the 1st week of mandatory vacation in that period.
Whereby the Companystill requiresadditionalemployees to be on vacation, betweenJuly 15thand January 15th of each year, the Company will schedule the most junior employee(s) inthe classification required, by department, to beon vacation. The Company will uponthe commencement of the next following mandatory vacation period, continue to schedule mandatory vacation from the point they had previously left off.
Should work become available in the full time area, mandatory vacation will notbescheduledandshouldwork
— 59 —
become available in the full time area during a mandatory vacation period, the company will offer that work to the most senior employee who is currently on mandatory vacation.
Employees who are requiredto take mandatory vacation will only be required to take one (1) week, until such time all employees on the seniority list are scheduled to take one (1) week of mandatory vacation, prior to scheduling their second week of mandatory vacation.
Employees who are requiredto take mandatoryvacation will be given notification on the Monday previous to the week of mandatory vacation.
Should the workforce, through attrition, reduce to a level satisfactory to accommodate all workers in the full time area, the mandatory vacation language will become null and void from that point forward.
The Company will notify the union as to the schedule of mandatory vacation on a weekly basis.
24.08	Vacation pay, upon written request by the employee,will be paid by the Company, in the pay period following such request. The appropriate forms are available in the Human Resources office and must be submitted priorto 05:00 pm on Fridays to be issued the following week. Vacation pay will be paid by the Company by the 15th of September in each year.
ARTICLE 25
HEALTH AND WELFARE
25.01	SEMI PRIVATE - 100% of the premiums will be paid by the Company for semi-private hospital coverage
— 60 —
for all seniority employees while in active employment of the Company and their eligible dependents, where such an employee makes application therefor.
25.02	LIFE INSURANCE- The Company will pay 100% of the premiums payablefor life insurancefor all seniority employees while in the active employment of the Company where such employee makes application therefor, as follows:
16,000	effective April 1,1990
25.03	PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN - The Company will pay 100% of the premiums payablefor a “prescription only” drug plan ($3.00 co-pay) for seniority employees while inthe active employment of the Company, and their eligible dependents where such an employee makes applicationtherefor.
“Prescriptiononly” drugs do not include any item that can be purchased“over the counter”.
25.04	VISION CARE- The Companyshall provide,to all seniority employees, a vision care plan effective April 1, 1996 to include coverage for employeesand their eligible dependents asdescribedi nthe Plan. Thisvisioncare plan will provide a maximum reimbursement of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per eligible participantevery twenty-four (24) months. The first twenty-four (24) month period will begin April 1, 1996.
25.05	It shall be the responsibility of the employees to ensure they comply with all eligibility requirements for coverage under this article. The details of the coverage are more specifically set out in the original contract for insurance coverage.
61
25.06	DENTAL PLAN - The Company will pay into the United Food and Commercial Workers Trusteed Dental Plan - Ontario, effective April 1, 1995, nineteen cents ($.19) per non overtime hour worked by each seniority employee while in the active employment of the Company and their eligible dependentsasdefined inthe Planwhere such an employee makes application therefor. An additional one cent ($.01) will be contributed effectiveApril 1, 1996, April 1, 1997 and April 1, 1998. The Company's contributions will also include contributionspaid on vacation and paid holiday hours and will be forwarded to this Plan within fifteen (15) days of the month following the month for which the contributions are being made.
25.07	WEEKLY INDEMNITY - The Company will pay 100% of the premiums payable for a Weekly Indemnity Plan for eligible seniority employees while in the active employment of the Company. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, coverage will be for a period of twenty-six (26) weeks commencing on the one hundred and twentieth (120) day of absence from work and the amount of coverage shall be sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of eligible earnings subject to a maximum of three hundred and twenty dollars ($320.00) per week.
25.08	To become eligible for the Company's portion of premiumsfor the Healthand Welfare coverages, seniority employees must have completed their probationary period and must have received eighty (80) hours of pay from the Company in any payroll month. The hours credited will be based on the payroll months and the days of the week in which the payrollweek ends in a month will be credited to that same month. Entitled vacations with pay
— 62 —
and specified holiday, if any, shall be considered as time worked.
25.09	Any seniority employee who is absent from work because of illness or injury or who has been laidoff by the Company and who wishes to continueto participate in the Healthand Welfare coverage as providedinthis Article as a member of the Company's group with respect to such coverage may do so, subject to all requirements of the Plans and providedhe continuesto be an employee of the Company and continues to meet all the requirements of the planand providedhe paysto the Company the amount of the premium payment in advance of the premium due dates. This privilegedoes not apply to semi-private hospitalization coverage. This privilege shall terminate on the expiry of two (2) years from the commencement of the illness, injury or lay off.
25.10	PENSION PLAN- The Companywill pay into the Canadian CommercialWorkers IndustryPensionPlan,on behalf of each seniority employee, the sum of forty-nine cents ($.49) effective April 1, 1995, fifty cents ($.50) effectiveApril 1,1996, fifty-one cents($.51) effective April 1,1997 andfifty-two($,52) effectiveApril 1,1998 for each non-overtime hour worked by each seniority employee, subjectto a maximumofforty (40) hoursperweek. These Company contributionswill be remitted by the Company bythefifteenth(15th)dayofthe monthfollowingthe month for which the contributionsare being made.
25.11	The Plan documents for all Sick and Welfare Benefits provided under this agreement are an integral part of the collective agreement and are hereby incorporated by reference into it. Exact duplicates of these plans will be forwarded to the Union.
— 63 —
ARTICLE 26
COST-OF-LIVING-ALLOWANCE
26,01	Seniority employees who have completed their probationary period will be provided a Cost of Living Allowance in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)	The Company agrees to provideCost of Living Allowance determined in the manner and to the extent hereinafterset forth in accordance with changes in the official Consumer Price Index, published by Statistics Canada (1981=100), and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
(b)	Cost of Living Adjustment will be made upward or downward as hereinafter provided basedonchangesintheC.P.I. butin no event will a decline intheC.P.I. below136.4 provide a basis of reduction in the wage rates herein set forth.
(c)	Adjustments in the Cost of Living Allowance shall bemadeatthefollowingtimes, based on the following C.P.I.:
Commencing the first pay	Based on the CPI
period following
April 1, 1989 October 1, 1989 April 1, 1990 October 1, 1990
published for:
February, 1989 August, 1989 February, 1990 August, 1990
26.02	The amount of Cost of Living Allowance which shall be effective commencing the first full pay period
64
following April 1,1989, shall be one cent (1 cent) per hour adjustments for each 0,5 increase intheC.P.I. published for February, 1989, over the base of 136.4 and for any period thereafter shall be one cent (1 cent) per hour adjustmentfor each 0,5 increase intheC.P. I. published for the appropriate month as indicated above over the base of 136.4.
26.03	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revisionwhich may later be made in any published C.P. I.
26.04	The provisions of thisarticleareinoperativefor the term of this Agreement. The amount of forty-four cents ($.44) perhourwill be maintainedthroughoutthe terms of this Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 27
SPECIAL PROVISION APPLICABLE TO SEASONAL EMPLOYEES
27.01	Seasonalworkshall includeall General and Heavy classified jobs performed on raw or unfrozen fruit and vegetables priorto the Belt Freezers but shall exclude any coated and /or value added productions.
27.02	Seasonal employees shall be calledback inorder of years of service in that those with the most years of service shall be called back before those with lesser years of service providedthatthey havethe ability, willing-nessand qualificationsto satisfactorily performthe duties to be done.
65
27.03	(a) Seasonal employees shall be entitled to the following Paid Holidays, with pay at their regular straight time hourly rate of pay:
Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day
If a seasonal employee is required to work on any of the above Holidays, he shall be paidtime and one half (11/2) for the time worked in additionto the Holiday Pay.
Eligibilityfor the above namedholidaysshall be subjectto the following conditions:
(i)	must be employed by the Company for three (3) months during that season, and earns wages on at leasttwelve (12) daysduringthe four (4) weeks prior to the Holiday.
(ii)	must actually work on the full scheduled shift preceding and following the holiday.
(b) Seasonalemployeesshall receive, on a weekly basisfour percent (4%) of their total earnings as vacation pay.
(c)	All hours actually worked by a seasonal employee in excess of forty (40) hours per week, shall be paid forat one and one half(1112) timesthe employee's regular straighttime rate of pay.
(d)	The wage ratesto be paidto seasonal employees will bethe minimumwage rate outlinedinthe Employment Standards Act.
66
The Scale House clerk will be paid a minimum of thirty cents ($.30) per hour in addition to the minimum wage rate.
There will be a seventeen cents($.17) per hour premium on the afternoon or second shift for all hours of work performed on such shift and twenty-five cents ($.25) per hour premiumonthe evening or third shift for all hours of work performed on such shift.
(e)	If a seasonal employee is unable to reportfor work, for any reason, he shall notify his Supervisor or Human Resources department prior to the commencement of the scheduledshift, and why he is unable to report for work and when he expects to report for work.
ARTICLE 28
HEALTHANDSAFETY
28.01	(a) The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees in the plant during their working hours. The Company agrees to notify the Chief Steward of any lost time accidents in the bargaining unit.
(b)	The Company will supply copies of “Form 7” Compensationforms immediately and copies of “Restrictions List” to the Chief Steward.
(c)	The Company andthe Unionwill workjointly to promote the safe operation of the plant. The Company agreesto work with the Unionto provide education related to the health and safety of its employees.
67
The Joint Health and Safety Committee members will assist in the development and communication of safety regulations and safe work practices, and, in conjunction with the supervisor provide the necessary notification to employees when they observe unsafe work practices, behaviour or conditions.
In addition, the Company will establishdepartmentsafety committees to address health and safety issues within those departments.
ARTICLE 29
DURATION
29.01	This Agreement shall become effective the 1st day of April. 1995 and shall remain in effect until the 31 st day of March 1999.
29.02	Either party to this Agreement may, within the period of ninety (90) calendar days priorto the 31 st day of March of 1999, give notice in writing to the other party of its desire to make a new agreement.
ARTICLE 30
LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
30.01	The Company and the Union recognize the value of cooperation in the solution of problems common to the relations between them. For purpose of improving such relations and reaching mutual understandings as to the proper aimsandobjectivesof each other, the joint labour-management committee shall be establishedwithin thirty (30) days after the executionof this Contract consistingof
-68-
representatives of the Company and the Union. Only persons employed by the Company or the Union shall serve on this Committee. The Labour-ManagementCom-mittee shall meetmonthlyand shall considersuch matters as shall be mutually agreed upon except that such com-mitteeshall notconsiderany matterwhichproperlyshould be considered in the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE 31 GAIN SHARING PLAN
31.01	Duringthefirstyearofthe contract,a GainSharing committee will be formed to develop a self funding Gain Sharing Plan.
The Gain Sharing Committee will consist of an equal number of representatives from the Company and the Union, with no fewer than three (3) representatives for each.
The Gain Sharing Planthat isdeveloped by the committee will be implemented by May 1,1996.
The Company will provide the committee with the educational assistance needed to develop and implement the Gain Sharing Plan.
69
SCHEDULE “A”
(A) (CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES FOR SENIORITY EMPLOYEES SAVE AND EXCEPT SENIORITY EMPLOYEES EMPLOYED IN THE SKILLED TRADES DEPARTMENTS)
	Hi	IRLYR	’EOF/	Y
AS AT	APRIL m	April m	APRIL1/97	APRIL 1/9
JOB GRADE				
1.	General 2.	Heavy Labour Janitor	$13.20	$13,45	$13.70	$14.05
3. Padlocker/ Casemaker Smelt Machine Operator Perch Machine Operator Filleter Bandsaw Operalor Lift Truck Driver Sanitation^" Crewpenson Caseprinting Makeup Automatic Palietizer Operator Mix Room Operator	$13.55	$13.80	$14.05	$14.40
4. Utility Person-PlantOne Utility Person-PlantTwo Packaging Line Operator Productionlnventory Clerk W&rehouseperson Sanitation'1 ACrewpenson Onion Peeler Operator	$13.85	$14.10	$14.35	$14,70
5. Cookline Owrator-Plant One Fishiine Operator Vegline Operator Cold Storage Driver Cold Storage Inventory Clerk Process Control Operator	$13.95	$14.20	$14.45	$14.80
6. Leader	$14.15	$14.40	$14.65	$15.00
Note#1 ■ Port Stanley
Bargaining unitemployee(s) atthe Pori Stanley Operation will be paid the Grade One pay rate as outlined above.
Note #2 - Lift Truck Drivers
Where required, employees will bescheduled intheirdepartment inthe Lift Truck Driver classification and they maybe utilized in other departments during the shift if necessary.
— 70 —
(B)
PIECE WORK (SENIORITY EMPLOYEES)
RATES PER POUND-'EASEDON 60 LE. ROUND WEIGHT
(i)	Hand Filleters	cents/pound
Dressed Pickerel	$ .08
Dressed White Perch	.12
Dressed Bass	.08
Medium Bass Fillets	.22
Small Bass Fillets	.24
Large Bass Fillets	,22
Butterfly Perch Fillets	.34
Small Butterfly Perch Fillets	.36
Perch Special Split Fillets	.36
Small Perch Special Split Fillets .38 Yellow Pan H/Q	.15
Yellow Fillets	.15
Pickerel Pieces&Tails	,20
Cohoe Fillet	.15
Skinless Yellow Fillets	,20
Yellow Special Split Fillets	,18
Whitefish Fillets	.15
per pound per pound per pound per pound per pound per pound per pound per pound per pound per pound per pound per pound per pound per pound per pound per pound per pound
Note #1
When Hand Filleters are engaged in hand filleting, they will be paid no less than the rate of pay of the Filleter classification as provided in Schedule (A).
Note #2
When Hand Filleters are not engaged in hand filleting, they will be paid the rate of pay of the General classification as provided in Schedule (A).
71
(ii)	Perch Machine Rates
Effective Date April!, 1995
Note#1 (a)
Perch Machine Operatorswill receive in addition to their piecework earnings, $10.80 per hourworked.
Note#1 (b)
When Perch Machine Operators are engaged in the operation of the Perch Machines, they will be paidno less than the rate of pay of the Perch Machine Operator classification as provided in Schedule (A).
Note #2
When Perch Machine Operators are not operating the Perch Machines, they will be paid the rate <f pay of the General classification as provided in Schedule (A).
(iii)	Smelt Machine Rates Daily Rate
1,1995	1,1996
30,000 - 30,999	$ 113.00	122.00
Number of Fish
April April
72
(iii) Smelt Machine Rates
Number of Fish
41.000	- 41,999
42.000	- 42,999
43.000	- 43,999
44.000	- 44,999
45.000	- 45,999
46.000	- 46,999
47.000	- 47,999
48.000	- 48,999
49.000	- 49,999
50.000	- 50,999
51.000	- 51,999
52.000	- 52,999
53.000	- 53,999
54.000	- 54,999
55.000	- 55,999
56.000	- 56,999
57.000	- 57,999
58.000	- 58,999
59.000	- 59,999
60.000	- 60,999
61.000	- 61,999
62.000	- 62,999
63.000	- 63,999
64.000	- 64,999
65.000	-	65,999
66.000	- 66,999
67.000	- 67,999
68.000	- 68,999
69.000	- 69,999
70.000	- 70,999
Daily Rate April 1,1995
117.24
117.62 118.01
118.39
118.78
119.16
119.55
119.93
120.32
120.70
121.09
121.47 121.86
122.24
122.63
123.01
123.40
123.78
124.17
124.55
124.94
125.32
125.71
126.09
126.48 126.86
127.25
127.63
128.02
128.40
73
April 1, 1996
126.24 126.62
127.01
127.39
127.78 128.16
128.55
128.93
129.32
129.70
130.09
130.47
130.86
131.24
131.63
132.01
132.40
132.78 133.17
133.55
133.94
134.32
134.71
135.09
135.48
135.86
136.25
136.63
137.02
137.40
(iii) Smelt Machine Rates
Number of Fish
71.000	- 71,999
72.000	- 72,999
73.000	-	73,999
74.000	- 74,999
75.000	-	75,999
76.000	- 76,999
77.000	- 77,999
78.000	- 78,999
79.000	- 79,999
80.000	- 80,999
81.000	- 81,999
82.000	- 82,999
83.000	- 83,999
84.000	- 84,999
85.000	- 85,999
86.000	- 86,999
87.000	-	87,999
88.000	- 88,999
89.000	- 89,999
90.000	- 90,999
Daily Rate
April April 1,1995	1,1996
128.79	137.79
129.17	138.17
129.56	138.56
129.94	138.94
130.33	139.33
130.71	139.71
131.10	140.10
131.48	140.48
131.87	140.87
132.25	141.25
132.64	141,64
133.02	142.02
133.41	142.41
133.79	142.79
134.18	143.18
134.56	143.56
134.95	143.95
135.33	144.33
135.72	144.72
136.10	145.10
Note#1 (a)
Smelt Machine Operators will receive, inadditionto their piece work earnings, $10.80 per hour worked.
Note#1 (b)
When Smelt Machine Operators are engaged in the operation of the Smelt Machines, they will be paid no less than the rate of pay of the Smelt Machine Operator classification as provided in Schedule (A).
74
Note #2
When Smelt Machine Operators are not operating the Smelt Machines, they will be paid the rate of pay of the General classification as provided in Schedule (A).
(C) PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
The starting rate for probationaryemployeesshall not be lessthantwenty cents($.20) perhourabovethe minimum wage establishedbythe Government. Aftercompletionof the probationary period, seniority employees will be paid the applicable hourly rate.
SCHEDULE“B”
GUIDELINES FOR PLANTWIDE CREWING
(REFERENCETO SUB-ARTICLE 10.02 (B))
A.	SCHEDULING SET UP FOR THE WEEK
Crewing requirements obtained from supervision.
I.	CLASSIFIED POSITIONS
• Determine the total number of classified employees required on each shift in each department and crew as follows:
•	Classified employees from that shift in that department.
•	Back up employees in those classifications, from that shift, in that department.
•	Senior available employees in that classification, from the plantwide seniority list.
75
•	Senior available back up employees in that classification, from the plantwide seniority list.
•	Seniorqualifiedemployeesfromthatshift in that department.
•	Senior qualified employees from the plantwide seniority list.
II.	UNION STEWARDS
•	If union stewards have not been crewed in their classification per above, crew them as “heavy” (or light) if required.
III.	HEAVY AND LIGHT
•	Determine the total number of “Heavy and Light" employees required.
•	Go to plant wide seniority list and count the total number of “Heavy and Light” required.
•	Out of that total number required in the Company:
« crew Heavy and Light labour in “home” department/ home shift.
•	If still Heavy and Light to crew, and no more jobs in their home department/ shift, crew:
•	by seniority: same shift
other shift
B.	LAYOFF
Determine where lay off is: shift, department, classification.
I.	CLASSIFIED
•	Go to junior classified on that shift, in that department(where layoff is)— they become “heavy” or “light” general.
•	That junior classified (now general) will displace the most junior heavy or general on that shift, in that department (if any).
•	The junior general employee displaces the junior heavy or general in the Company, wherever they are (regardless of shift).
•	The junior employee in the Company gets laid off.
II.	UNION STEWARD
•	Union Steward is retained in department/ shift if there is work.
III.	HEAVY LABOUR
•	Same procedure as above.
IV.	LIGHT GENERAL
•	Same procedure as above.
C.	REPLACEMENTS DURING THE WEEK
I. When additional employees are required, the Companywill returnappropriate employeesback to their home departmentand shift (where applicable) before laid off orjunior employees.These employees cannot refuse this work; even if this work is on the opposite shift.
77
II. Following the above step, employees are recalled from lay off as per sub-article 10.01 of the Collective Agreement.
Note#1
Employees who are scheduled to perform classifiedwork may, if there is not enough work in their classification, perform general duties as required to provide them with eight (8) hours of work. This will not affect the number of general workers requiredunder current operatingcircum-stances who are scheduledto perform productionduties.
Signed on this 5th day of May 1995.
FOR THE COMPANY
Harry M. Carroll Larry Ruffner RossD. Craig Marguerite Rivard Ronald Omstead Jim Omstead Gord Whitcher
FOR THE UNION Gilbert Beleutz Dennis Beniuk Manuel Amaral Jose E. Rebelo Peter Lesinky Caesar Martinho Silvia Fratarcangeli Regina McCracken Edward Araujo Joe Rebelo
78
Letter of Intent between Omstead Foods Limited and United Food and CommercialWorkers Union Local 459 Re: Refrigeration Schedule
It is mutually understood, that the Company and the Union will meet immediatelyfollowing ratificationof this contract to work out any additionaldetails of the first (1st) option of the new Refrigeration Schedule.
OPTION I:
I) must obtain permissionfrom M.C.C.R. to run Plant One on weekends with no operator unless production is scheduled and at that time, an operator will be scheduledin for all shifts required.
ii)	the Company will follow the guidelines expressed by the M.C.C.R.
iii)	shouldwork be scheduled at Plant One on the weekends, the person who is listed on the schedule for that weekend will perform the duties required.
iv)	present schedule remains.
v)	this proposal must be exhausted fully before the 2nd option would come into effect.
vi)	employees affected will be eligible for the maximumpension contributionofforty(40) hoursperweek eventhoughtheyare scheduled off during regular hours.
OPTION II:
i)	five (5) mandatory days off per week in accordance with the refrigerationschedule attached.
ii)	it is understoodthat affected Refrigerationemployees will be eligible for the maximum pension contribution of forty (40) hours per week even though they are scheduled off during regular hours.
79
u
LSTTSft OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
OHSTSAD FOODS LIMITED AND
UNITED FOOD i COWDERCIAL WORKERS UNION LOCAL 459
It is mutually agreed chat the Company and the Union shall review all Letters of Intent. Letters o£ Understanding and/or Mutual Agreements to determine chose letters which -ara still active and pertinent. Once agreed. these letters will De copied to the appropriate Stewards, Supervisors and/or Managers.
£+*	M a >/
Signed on this-------— date of--------*■------- 1995
For The Union
Om stead Foods Limited
One Erie Si South. Wheatley. Ont. Canada NOP 2PO Wheatley: (519) 628-4611 Detroit (313) 963-0230 Teletax: (5191625-7144
80