COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE FRESHWATER FISH MARKETING CORPORATION
AT
WINNIPEG, MANITOBA AND
THE PUBLIC SERVICE ALLIANCE OF CANADA
FOR
STATIONARY ENGINEERS
EXPIRY DATE:	APRIL 30, 1983
, ______________*
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
1
I
2
2
2
2
3
3
4
5
5
6
6
8
10
10
12
12
13
13
14
14
15
15
16
16
17
18
19
19
19
20
20
21
22
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUBJECT
Purpose of Agreement Definitions Recognition Management Functions Discrimination Check-Of f
Information for Employees Use of Corporation Facilities Seniority
Promotions and Staff Changes Layoffs and Recalls Appointment of Stewards Grievance Procedure Arbitration
Discharge and Suspension
Hours’ of Work
Overtime
Standby
Call-Back
Sick-Leave
Injury on Duty
Leave of Absence
Bereavement Leave
Court Leave
Leave for Birth of Child Paid Holidays Vacation Leave Pay
Shift Premium Clothing
Strikes and Lock-Outs
Other
Duration
Cost of Living
Appendix "A" - Rates of Pay
-1-
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain harmonious and mutually beneficial relationship between the Corporation, the employees and the Alliance, to set forth certain terms and conditions of employment relating to remuneration, hours of work, employee benefits -'and general working conditions affecting employees covered by this Agreement and to ensure that all reasonable measures are provided for the safety and occupational health of the employees.
1.02	To facilitate the peaceful adjustment of all disputes and grievances; to prevent strikes, lockouts, waste, expenses, avoidable and unnecessary delays.
1.03	The parties to this Agreement desire that methods of bargaining and all matters pertaining to the working conditions of the employees be drawn up in an Agreement now, therefore, the parties agree as follows: ■
ARTICLE 2 DEFINITIONS
2.01
For the purpose of this Agreement:
(a)	"Alliance" means the Public Service Alliance of Canada;
(b)	"Bargaining Unit" means the employees of the Employer described in Article 3;
(c)	"Corporation11 means the Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation;
(d)	"Daily rate of pay" means an employee's hourly rate of pay multiplied by eight;
(e)	"Employee" means a person who is a member of the bargaining unit;
(f)	"Hourly rate of pay" means the rate of pay specified in Appendix 'A" applicable to the employee's classification;
(g)	"Lay-Off" means an employee whose employment has been terminated because of a lack of work or because of the discontinuance of a function; and
2
(h) "Membership dues" means the dues established pursuant to the constitution of the Alliance as the dues payable by its members as a consequence of their membership in the Alliance, and shall not include any initiation fee, insurance premium, or special levy.
ARTICLE 3 RECOGNITION
3.01	The Corporation recognizes the Alliance as the sole and
exclusive bargaining agent for all employees described by the Certificate of Certification issued by the Canada Labour Relations Board dated February 22nd, 1973.
ARTICLE 4
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
4.01
The management and operation of the business including the employment, direction, promotion, transfer, layoff, and suspension, discharge, or other discipline of employees for just cause, shall be vested solely in the management of the Corporation. The management in the exercise of these management rights shall do so in a manner not inconsistent with the express provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 DISCRIMINATION
5,01	The Corporation and the Alliance agree that'there shall
be no discrimination, interference, restriction or coercion exercised or practised by either party to this Agreement with respect to any employee by reason of age, sex, race, creed, color, national origin, political or religious affiliation, nor in respect of membership or activity in the Alliance.
ARTICLE 6 CHECK-OFF
6.01	Amend to read as follows:
All’-employees within the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement will be required to pay to the
Alliance (through payroll deduction) a sum of money
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
equivalent to the membership dues of the Alliance.
The foregoing will not apply, however, to:
(i)	employees during their initial probationary period;
(ii)	the employee who satisfies the Corporation to the extent that he declares in an affidavit that his religious convictions will be violated by such a contribution to an employee organization and that he will make contributions to a ' charitable organization equal to dues.
New employees shall, as a condition of employment, be or become members of the Alliance upon completion of their initial probationary period, and shall, as a condition of employment, maintain their membership thereafter.
The Corporation shall, upon receipt of written authorization and signed by the employee, and so long as such authorization remains in force, deduct the monthly Alliance dues. The Alliance shall inform the Corporation in writing of the authorized monthly deduction to be checked off for each employee defined in Clause 6,01.	„
The Corporation shall remit monthly to the Alliance the sum 'as deducted in accordance with Clause 6,01 after deductions are made and shall be accompanied by particulars identifying each employee and then deductions made on his behalf.
The Alliance agrees to indemnify and save the Corporation harmless against any'Claim or liability arising out of • the application of this article except for any claim or liability arising out of an error committed by the Corporation in connection with the deduction of the amount equal to the monthly membership dues.
ARTICLE 7
INFORMATION FOR EMPLOYEES
7.01	The Corporation agrees to supply each employee who is a member in this bargaining unit with a copy of the Collective Agreement. The Alliance agrees to pay one-half the printing cost.
ARTICLE 8
USE OF CORPORATION FACILITIES
8.01	If an authorized Alliance Representative who is not . employed by the Corporation desires to speak to local Alliance representatives in the Plant about a grievance,
4
or other official Alliance business, he shall obtain approval ' of the Plant Manager, Assistant Plant Manager, or their ' designated representative, who shall then call the local Alliance representative(s) to the office where they may confer privately. These discussions will be arranged so that they will not interfere with production. Permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
8.02	Reasonable space and bulletin boards will be made
available to the Alliance for the posting of official notices, ’in convenient locations determined by the Corporation. Notices or other material shall require the prior approval of the Corporation, and shall be signed and dated by a Corporation official, except notices of meetings of their members, elections, the names of the Alliance representatives, and social and recreational events. The Corporation shall have the right to refuse the posting of any information which it considers adverse to its interests or to the interests of any of its representatives.	r ..
ARTICLE 9 SENIORITY
9.01
'h
9.02
The Corporation agrees to recognize the length of service with the Corporation in promotions, transfers, filling new positions, vacancies, provided the employee in the opinion of the Corporation has the qualifications and ability to perform the duties of the position.
For the purpose of seniority, length of active service as shown on the Corporation’s records shall be the determining factor.
9.03	The Corporation shall maintain a seniority list showing
the date upon which each employee's service commenced.
An up-to-date seniority list shall be sent to the Alliance and posted on all bulletin boards in January of each year.
9.04	A new employee will be considered on probation until he
has worked a total of ninety (90) shifts for the Corporation. . y On or before the completion o'f sixty (60) shifts of the nO) probationary perio.d the Corporation shall advise the 0 /[V probationary employee of any concerns the Corporation may ^ ^ have relating to the employee’s work. During this probationary period the employee shall be entitled to all rights and privileges of this agreement, except that an employee discharged shall have no right to grievance procedure in request of such discharge. After completion of the probationary period, seniority shall be effective from the original date of employment.
9.05	The seniority of any employee shall be considered broken,
all rights forfeited and there shall be no obligation to re-hire, when an employee
5
(a)	voluntarily leaves the service of the Corporation, or is dismissed;
(b)	fails to return to work within three days after being called or notified by registered letter to his last given address on the Corporation records;
(c)	is absent from work for five consecutive working days without notifying the Corporation, in which case the employee shall be considered to have resigned voluntarily;
has been laid off for more than six consecutive months.
9.06	An employee who is transferred or promoted to a position
outside of the bargaining unit shall continue to accrue seniority within the bargaining unit for a period of 60 shifts.
ARTICLE 10
PROMOTIONS AND STAFF CHANGES
10.01
0
Where a vacancy occurs or a new position covered by this Agreement is created, the Corporation shall po^t .notice of the position on the bulletin board for a minimum period of one week in order that all members of the bargaining unit are informed of the vacancy or new position and may have the opportunity to make written application therefore.
10.02 • In cases of promotion requiring higher qualifications or certification, the Corporation shall give consideration to an employee who does not possess the required qualifications, but is preparing for qualification prior to filling of a vacancy.’ Such employees will be given an opportunity to qualify within a reasonable length of time.
ARTICLE 11 LAYOFFS AND RECALLS
11.01 LAYOFF AND RECALL PROCEDURE
Both parties recognize that job security should increase in proportion to the length of service. The Corporation agrees that employees with greater length of service shall have preference in connection with layoffs and recalls insofar as it is practicable to do so, provided that their other qualifications relative to the position are equal.
6
11.02	No New Employees
No new employees will be hired while there are available employees laid off who are in the opinion of the Corporation qualified to perform the work.
11.03	NOTICE OF LAY-OFF
Notice of lay-off shall be given in accordance with provisions of the Canada Labour Code. ■
ARTICLE 12
APPOINTMENT OF STEWARDS
12.01	The Corporation acknowledges the right of the Alliance to appoint employees as stewards.
12.02	The Alliance shall notify the Corporation promptly and in writing of the names of its stewards.
12.03
A steward shall obtain the permission of his supervisor before leaving his work to investigate complaints’of an urgent nature, to meet with local management for the purpose of dealing with grievances and to attend meetings called by management. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. The steward shall report back to his supervisor before resuming his normal duties.
ARTICLE 13 *_________PROCEDURE
GENERAL
13.01	The Grievance form at Appendix "B" is to be used for the presentation of grievances, but no grievance shall be deemed to be invalid solely because it is not presented on the proper form.
13.02
13.03
13.04
When a period of time is expressed,as a number of days, that number of days shall not include non-working days.
The time limits presented in this Article may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
An employee who presents a complaint or grievance at either stage may, if he so desires, be assisted or represented by the Alliance.
I
7
13.05	A grievance may be presented by an employee on his own behalf or on behalf of himself and one or more other employees.
COMPLAINTS
13.06	An employee shall have the right to discuss and settle with the supervisor of his department any complaint he may have. Such discussion shall take place within 48 hours of the date when he first became aware of the circumstances giving rise to the complaint.
13.07	In the event that the Supervisor fails to satisfactorily resolve the complaint within forty-eight (48) hours of notification, the employee may refer the matter to the Plant Manager, Assistant Plant Manager, or their designated representative.
13.08	The Plant Manager, Assistant Plant Manager, or their designated representative, may resolve the complaint within forty-eight (48) hours of presentation, or failing this, the complaint may be submitted in writing as a formal grievance in the prescribed form.
GRIEVANCES
13.09	An employee who feels himself to be aggrieved shall have the right to present a formal written grievance in keeping with the following procedure:
STAGE 1
An employee may present his grievance to the Plant Manager, Assis-, tant Plant Manager, or their designated representative, within 10 days of the date on which he first became aware of the action or circumstances giving rise to the grievance.
The grievance shall state the nature of the grievance, and the redress sought.
The Plant Manager, Assistant Plant Manager, or their designated representative, shall reply to the grievance, in writing, within 10 days of its presentation.
STAGE 2
s
Failing satisfactory settlement at Stage 1, an employee may present his grievance to the President of the Corporation or his delegate, within 10 days of the date on which he received a reply at Stage 1 .■
In order to proceed to Stage 2, the employee shall have the support of, and be represented by the Alliance. .
8
The President of the Corporation or his delegate shall reply to the grievance in writing within 10 days of its presentation at Stage 2.
13.10	Where the Corporation discharges an employee, the grievance procedure set forth in 13.09 shall apply except that:
(i)	the grievance shall be presented at Stage 2
only and within 25 days from the date of discharge;	. . -
(ii)	the 10-day time limit within which the President of the Corporation or his delegate is to reply is extended to 25 days.
13.11	Failing a satisfactory settlement being reached in Stage 2, the Alliance may on giving five (5) days' notice to the Corporation of its intention, refer the matter to arbitration.
POLICY GRIEVANCE
13.12	In the case of a dispute involving a question of general application or interpretation, or where a group of
employees or the Alliance has a grievance, the Alliance shall have the right to file in writing a group or policy grievance. In such a case the procedure shall commence at Stage 2 of Clause 13.09.
13.13	The Corporation shall have the right to institute a grievance in respect of any violation of this Agreement and the grievance shall be served on the President or chief steward of the Alliance, with a copy by registered mail to the Alliance. In such case, the procedure shall commence at S£age 2 o£ clause 13.09.
ARTICLE 14 ARBITRATION
14.01	COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF ARBITRATION
When either party requests that a grievance be. submitted to arbitration, the request shall be made by registered mail addressed to the other party of the Agreement, indicating the name of its nominee on an Arbitration Board. Within five (5) days thereafter the other party shall answer by registered mail indicating the name and address of its appointee to the Arbitration Board. The two arbitrators shall then meet to select an impartial chairman,
9
14.02	FAILURE TO APPOINT
If the recipient of- the notice fails to appoint an arbitrator, or if the two appointees fail to agree upon a chairman within seven (7) days of appointment, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour, upon the request of either party.,
14.03	BOARD PROCEDURE
The Board may determine its own procedure, but shall give full opportunity to all parties to present evidence and make representation to it. It shall hear and determine the difference or allegation and render a decision within ten (10) days from the time the chairman is appointed.
14.04	DECISIONS OF THE BOARD
The decision of the majority shall be the decision of the Board. Where there is no majority decision, the decision of the chairman shall be the decision of the Board. . The decision of the Board of Arbitration shall be final and binding and enforceable on all parties, but in no event shall the Board of Arbitration have the power to change this Agreement or to alter, modify or amend any of its provisions. However, the Board shall have the power to dispose of any discharge or a discipline grievance by any arrangement which in its opinion it deems just and equitable.
14.05	DISAGREEMENT ON DECISION
Should the parties disagree as to the meaning of the decision, either party may apply to the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration to reconvene the Board to clarify ‘ the decision, which it shall do within (3) days.
14.06	EXPENSES OF	THE BOARD
Each party shall pay:
(1)	the fees and expenses of the arbitrator it appoints,
(2)	one-half the fees and expenses of the chairman.
14.07	AMENDING OF	TIME LIMITS
The time limits fixed on both the grievance and arbitration procedure may be extended by consent of the parties	to this Agreement.
14.08	WITNESSES
At any stage of the grievance or arbitration procedure, the parties may have the assistance of the employee(s)
10
concerned as witness(es) and any other witnesses and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties or the arbitrator(s) to have access to the Corporation's premises to view any working conditions which may be relevant to the settlement of the grievance.
ARTICLE 15
DISCHARGE AND SUSPENSION
15.01	An employee who has completed his initial probationary period of ninety (90) shifts may be dismissed for just cause and only upon the authority of the Corporation., When an employee is discharged or suspended, he shall be given the reason for such discharge or suspension in the presence of the Steward.
ARTICLE 16
HOURS OF.WORK
16.01	When hours of work are scheduled for employees on a
Ofyreguiar basis, they shall be scheduled so that employees:
[ ° 1° ,
AO' .	(a] on a weekly basis work forty (40) hours and
b ^	5 days per week, and
(b) on a daily basis, work eight (8) hours per day.
16.02	When, because of the operational requirements of the
service, hours of work are scheduled for employees on a rotating or irregular basis:
(a)	they shall be scheduled so that employees:
(i)	on a weekly basis work an average of 40 hours and 5 days per week, and
(ii)	on a daily basis work eight (8) hours per day.
(b)	every reasonable effort shall be made by the
Employer:
(i)	not to schedule the commencement of a shift within 8 hours of the completion of the employee's previous shift, and
(ii)	to avoid excessive fluctuations in hours of work.
16.03	An employee's scheduled hours of work shall not be construed as guaranteeing the employee minimum or
16.04
16.05
16.06
16.07
16.08
16.09
16.10
-11-
maximum hours of work.
The standard shift schedule will be 12:00 midnight to 8:00 a.in. — 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. -- 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight; or alternatively 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 am.
-- 7:00 a.m, to 3:00 p.m. -- 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
In respect of those employees who, because of the nature of their duties, work continuously from starting to quitting time and eat lunch on the job on Corporation time, it is understood that work duties will be arranged, to the extent that it is practical to do so, in such a way as to permit him to eat his meal as close to the midpoint of the shift as possible.
The employer shall set up a master shift schedule for a fifty-six (56) day period, posted fifteen (15) days in advance, which will cover the normal requirements of the work area.
Provided sufficient advance notice is given and subject to the approval of the Corporation, employees may exchange shifts if there is no increase in cost to the Corporation.
The setting of shift hours and the determination of who shall work on these shifts may be discussed by the Corporation with the Alliance but the final decision thereon shall be at the sole discretion of the Corporation.
An employee who is required to change his scheduled shift without receiving at least five (5) days1 notice in advance of the starting time of such change in his scheduled shift, shall be paid for the first shift worked on the revised schedule at the rate of time and one-half (1%). Subsequent shifts worked on the revised schedule shall be paid for at straight time, subject to the overtime provisions of this Agreement.
Regular work performed on a Saturday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-quarter (13$) the employee's normal rate of pay.
Effective April 30, 1982 regular work performed on a Saturday shall oe paid for at the rate of time and one-quarter (l3j) for the first six (6) hours and time and one-half (1%) the normal rate of pay for the remaining regular scheduled hours.
Effective July 15, 1979, any work performed on a Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of two (2) times the
employee's normal rate of pay,
-12-
ARTICLE 17 OVERTIME
17.01 GENERAL
(a) "Overtime" means work performed by an employee in excess of 8 hours in a day or in excess of 40 hours in his scheduled work week.
(b)	"Straight-time rate” means the regular hourly rate of pay.
(c)	"Time and one-half" means one and one-half times the straight-time rate.
(d)	"Double time" means twice the straight-time rate.
17,02 Subject to the operational requirements of the Corporation, the Corporation should make every reasonable effort to:
(a)	allocate overtimework on an equitable basis among readily available qualified employees, and
(b)	to give employees who are required to work overtime adequate advance notice of this requirement.
17.03
Employees required to work overtime in any day shall be entitled to time and one-half compensation for the first two hours of overtime and double time compensation thereafter.
17.04
Employees required to work on their first scheduled day of rest shall be entitled to time and one-half compensation qv for the first ten hours and double time compensation ' thereafter.
17.05
eft
A
17.06
A
Employees required to work on their second consecutive scheduled day of rest shall be entitled to double time compensation for all hours worked.
An employee who is asked to work overtime on the day the work is to be performed and who works two or more consecutive hours of overtime shall receive a meal allowance of $5.00.
17.07 No overtime will apply in cases where such is the result of a shift change through mutual agreement between employees.
ARTICLE 18 STANDBY
18.01
When standby on off-duty hours is required, employees
13
shall be designated for standby duty on a rotational basis.
18.02
Effective April 30, 1981 an employee on standby shall be entitled to standby payment of one dollar and forty-five ($1.45) per hour.
Effective April 30, 1982 an employee on standby shall be entitled to standby payment of one dollar and sixty-two ($1.62) per hour.
18.03	An employee designated for standby duty shall be available during his period of standby within the radius of the paging system and be available to return for duty-as quickly as possible if called.
18.04	No standby payment shall be granted if an employee is unable to report for duty when required.
ARTICLE 19 CALL-BACK
19.01
An employee who has left the premises of the Corporation after completion of his scheduled shift, and who is called back for work, shall be entitled to time and one-half (1^) compensation for all hours worked on recall up to the starting time of his scheduled shift, but in any event he shall be paid for not less than four hours at the aforementioned rate.
ARTICLE 20 SICK-LEAVE
20.01	CREDITS
20.02
An employee shall, upon completion of his initial probationary period, earn sick leave at the rate of one and one quarter (1^) days for each calendar month for which he receives pay at least fifteen (15) days in accordance with the policy of the Corporation.
GRANTING OF SICK LEAVE
An employee is eligible for sick leave with pay:
(a)	when he is absent from work because of disability due to certified illness or certified non-compensable accident, and
(b)	provided he has theracessary sick leave credits.
14
20.03	The Corporation reserves the right to require an employee to present himself for a medical examination to a physician appointed by the Corporation.
20.04	If an employee becomes ill and cannot report for work, he shall inform his immediate supervisor or the plant ' personnel supervisor of his illness, not later than one-half hour beyond the normal starting time of his shift. Upon return to duty he is required to report to the plant personnel supervisor to complete a Declaration of Illness form.
20.05	Disciplinary action including suspension and discharge may be taken in any case of evident abuse of income protection privileges.
20.06	An employee is not eligible for sick leave with pay during any period in which he is on leave of absence without pay or under suspension.
20.07	Where an employee has insufficient or no credits to cover the granting of sick leave with pay under the provisions of Clause 20.02, sick leave with pay may be granted:
(a)	for a period of up to twenty-five (25) days, if he is awaiting a decision on an application for injury-on-duty leave, or
(b)	for a period of up to fifteen (15) days if he has not submitted an application for injury-on-duty leave,
subject to the deduction of such advanced leave from any sick leave credits subsequently earned.
ARTICLE 21
INJURY ON DUTY
21.01	An employee injured in the performance of his duties shall suffer no loss of earnings for the hours he would have worked but were necessarily lost on the day in which the accident occurs, if, as a result of such injury he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instruction from the plant manager.
ARTICLE 22
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
22.01	The Corporation may at its sole discretion grant a leave of absence with or without pay, provided that a request
in writing is made by the employee and provided that the reasons for the required leave of absence are set out in the request. The Corporation reserves the right to grant or deny the leave of absence and to determine whether the leave, if granted, shall be with or without pay.
ARTICLE 2 3
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
I	'
V
23.01 For the purpose of this Clause, immediate family is defined as father, mother, stepfather, stepmother, brother, sister, spouse, child or ward+ of the employee.
(a)
Where a member of his immediate family dies, an employee shall be entitled to bereavement leave, for the purposes of attending services, for a period of up to three (3) consecutive calendar days and not exceeding the day following the funeral. During such a period, he shall be paid for those days which were not regularly scheduled days of rest for that employee.
+ For the purpose of this Article, "ward" means a person who is without full legal capacity or is otherwise incapable of managing his own affairs, and whose person, property or rights are under the protection of another person known as a guardian.

(b) Ai employee is entitled to special leave with pay, up to a maximum of one (1) day, in the event of the death of the employee's grandparent, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandchild, father-in-law,, mother-in-law, or a relative permanently residing in the employee's
household or with whom the employee permanently resides.
(c) It is recognized by the parties that the circumstances which call for leave in respect of bereavement are based on individual circumstances. On request, the Corporation may, after considering the particular circumstances involved, grant leave with or without pay for a period greater than that provided for in Clause 23.01 (a) and (b).
ARTICLE 24 COURT LEAVE
24.01
Where an employee is called and serves as a juror or a witness provided it is not in his own defence, the Corporation will make up the difference, between pay or

16
witness fees and the employee’s regular average hourly earnings for such periods of jury duty or time he serves as a witness as fall within a normal work day.
24.02 Where an employee is called for jury duty or as a witness other than in his own defence, and where he is not required to be present to fulfill such duties, the employee will report for work in the usual manner.
ARTICLE 25
LEAVE FOR BIRTH OF CHILD
At the discretion of the Corporation a male employee may be granted leave with pay up to a maximum of one day on the occasion of the birth of his child.
ARTICLE 26 PAID HOLIDAYS
26.01
b*\y
\O
26.02
26.03
26.04
For the purpose of this Agreement and in order that employees shall suffer no loss in pay, all employees shall be paid their regular rate for the following recognized holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Remembrance Day Civic Holiday
An employee is not entitled to be paid for a statutory holiday on which he does not work when he is not entitled to wages for at least fifteen (15) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday, unless absent with the permission of the Corporation, or absence due to certified illness, or illness in the employee's family necessitating his absence, or death in his family or jury duty or injury.
If a holiday as set forth in Clause 26.01 falls on a day which is not a regular working day, the first working day preceding holiday or the first working day thereafter shall be considered the holiday.
If an employee works on any of the above-named holidays, he shall be paid his regular wages for that day, and in addition time and one-half pay for actual time worked, subject to additional straight-time payment where the hours worked exceed his' normal daily work period.
-17-
26.05	Where a holiday as set out in Clause 26.01 falls during the period of an employee’s vacation, the period of vacation shall be lengthened by one working day to include the holiday.
26.06	In addition, should any day not now so mentioned in this Agreement be proclaimed by The Parliament of Canada or the Legislature of Manitoba be proclaimed a holiday, it shall, on proclamation, become part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 27
VACATION LEAVE
27.01
ACCUMULATION OF VACATION LEAVE
27.02
27.03
27.04
27.05
During any calendar year an employee shall earn vacation leave at the following rates for each calendar month in which he receives at least fifteen (15) days' pay:
a)	five-sixths (5/6) of a day per month, but not to exceed a total of two (2) weeks' leave if he has completed less than two (2) years of continuous
employment; the vacation pay shall be calculated at At
four percent (4%) of the employee's total earnings;
b)	one.and one-quarter (1%) days per month, but not to exceed a total of three (3) weeks' leave, effective
/2 from the month in which he has completed two (2)
\0UJ years of continuous employment; the vacation pay ' fysshall be calculated at six percent (6%) of the employee's total earnings.
c)	One and two-thirds (1-2/3) days per month, but not to exceed a total of four (4) weeks leave, effective from the month in which he has completed ten (10) years of continuous employment, the vacation pay shall be calculated at eight percent (8%)of the employee's total earnings.
Payment of wages in lieu of vacation is not permitted.
Vacations earned during the current vacation year must be taken during the vacation year immediately following that in which they are earned.
Vacation pay will be given an employee immediately prior to the commencement of his vacation.
Vacation periods can only be accumulated and carried over by mutual agreement between the Corporation and the employee.
27.06	Where the employment of the employee by the Corporation is terminated before the completion of the employee's year of employment, the Corporation shall forthwith pay to the employee:
<
a)	any vacation pay owing by 'it to the employee in respect of any prior completed year of employment; and,
b)	any vacation pay earned but not used by the employee during the completed portion of his year of employment.
27.07	Notwithstanding the previous clause, the Corporation is not required to pay an employee any amount under that paragraph unless the employee has been continuously employed by it for a period of thirty days or more.
27.08	When the employment of an employee who has completed
more than one month of continuous employment is terminated by reason of (a) death, (b) discharge, or (c) a declaration that he has abandoned his position, the employee or his estate shall, in lieu of the unused vacation leave be paid an amount equal to the product obtained by multiplying the number of days earned but unused vacation leave by the daily rate of pay applicable to the employee immediately prior to the termination of his employment.
ARTICLE 28 PAY
28.01	An employee is entitled to be paid for services rendered 'at the rate of pay specified in Appendix attached heteto and forming part of this Agreement.
28.02	a) Payday shall be bi-weekly and each employee
shall be provided with an itemized statement of his wages and deductions;
b)	Employees completing the afternoon shift (4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight) on the day immediately before payday shall be given their cheques upon completion of that shift; and,
c)	Employees completing the evening shift (12:00 midnight to 8:00 a.m.) of the payday shall be given their cheques upon completion of that shift.
28.03
Employees involved in educational courses pertaining to the upgrading of their trade, or writing examinations for any class of certificate relating to their trade, may be reimbursed for the cost of taking such course . or examination, at the time of completion of such course
“19- .
i
and/or examination and provided prior approval has been received from the Corporation. Such requests are to be made in writing thirty days in advance of the taking of such course or examination.
ARTICLE 29 SHIFT PREMIUM
29.01
Effective April 30, 1981 employees shall be paid a shift premium of 28 cents per hour for all hours worked on the afternoon shift (4:00 to 12:00) and a premium of 54 cents per hour for all hours worked on the evening shift (12:00 to 8:00).
(i '	■*-
{ft1/, shift (12:00 to 8:00).
Infective April 30, 1982 employees shall be paid a [/shift premium of 30 cents per hour for all hours worked (L on the afternoon shift (4:00 to 12:00) and a premium , of 54 cents per hour for all hours worked on the evening

h
ARTICLE 30 CLOTHING
Coveralls, shirts and slacks shall be provided to employees to be worn during the performance of their duties. It . shall be the responsibility of the Corporation to supply, clean, launder and maintain all clothing used. There will be no reissue until prior issue is returned.
ARTICLE 31
STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS
31.01	SLOWDOWNS OR INTERRUPTIONS OF PRODUCTION
It is agreed that the Alliance will not, during the term of this Agreement, authorize, promote, direct, condone or encourage any slowdown or other curtailment or restriction of production or interference with work in or about the Corporation's plants or premises nor will employees take part in any such actions.
31.02	STRIKES OR LOCK-OUTS DURING THE LIFE OF.THE AGREEMENT
It is agreed that the Alliance will not, during the life of this Agreement, authorize, promote, direct, condone or encourage a strike of employees affected
-20-
by this Agreement nor will employees take part in such action. It is agreed that the Corporation will not during the life of this Agreement lock out employees.
ARTICLE 32 OTHER
32.01 In the event that a written formal review of an
employee's performance is made, the employee shall be given an opportunity to sign the review form in question to indicate that its contents have been read and explained.
32.02
The Corporation will pay a tool allowance of up to $75.00 per calendar year for each of the stationary engineers. This will include purchase of new tools required for the job.
32.03
The Corporation will continue payment of the Corporation's share of Manitoba Medical Services premiums to employees for whom the Corporation .paid the employee's share of the premium prior to’
June 1, 1973. These payments will be made in December.
The Corporation agrees to pay all costs of renewing
the operating tickets for each of the Stationary Engineers.
32.05
The Corporation will grant each employee a safety footwear allowance of thirty-five (35) dollars for each twelve months worked for the purchase of safety boots or safety shoes. In order to qualify for the said allowance, the employee shall be required to wear safety boots or safety shoes at all times while at work.
ARTICLE 33 DU RAT ION
33.01 This collective agreement shall expire on April 30, 1983
33.02 Unless otherwise expressly stipulated, the provisions of this Agreement shall become effective on the date it is signed.
ARTICLE 34 COST OF LIVING
In addition to the wage increases scheduled in this agreement, for the period year of the collective agreement, the Corporation will pay a cost of living allowance (COLA) in accordance with the following:
Using the May 1982 Consumer Price Index (all items) Canada and at a point in time when the said index has increased by eleven and a half percent (11.5%), following May 1982 a cost of living allowance shall be paid on the basis of one cent (ljzf) per hour for each full point five	increase in the said index.
Adjustments pursuant to (A) above shall be made effective the payday following the release of the monthly index by Statistics Canada.
C) The last COLA adjustment during the term of the agreement shall be at May 30, 1983.
SIGNED at Winnipeg, Manitoba,
t h
i s
day of September, A.D. 1981.
FRESHWATER FISH MARKETING	PUBLIC SERVICE ALLIANCE OF CANADA
CORPORATION
-22-
APPENDIX "A" RATES OF PAY
'April 1/81 Per Hour
Operating Engineer	$11.60
(2nd Class)
Operating Engineer (3rd Class)
$11.02
(16%)
April 1/82	(11.5%)
Per Hour
$12.93
$12.29