COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 459
A.F.L. C.I.O. C.L.C.
PLANT UNIT Expires April 30, 2015
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into at Leamington, Ontario as of the 25th day of June, 2011 BETWEEN:
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART - and -
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 459
A.F.L. C.I.O, C.L.C.
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
INDEX
ARTICLE	PAGE #
1	Purpose . •..................... 5
2	Recognition ...................... 6
3	Union Security.................. 8
4	Management Rights............... 11
5	Wages ............................. 14
5.07	Jury Duty . . ..................... 16
5.08	Bereavement Pay............ 17
6	Shift Premiums?. ...........	19
7	,	Hours of Work................... 20
8	Holidays........................ 33
9	Reporting Allowance &	Call-In Pay	37
10	Seniority . . ............ ......	42
11	Vacations....................... 61
12	Non-Strike Provision ........	74
13	Grievance Procedure..........	75
14	Arbitration..................... 84
15	Leave of Absence for (Union Rep.)	87
16	Sick and Welfare Plan . ........... -	88
17	Uniforms ............................. 92
18	Bulletin Boards.................... 93
19	Rest Periods.......................... 93
20	Health and Safety.................. 94
21	General . ................*........... 95
22	Termination and Renewal............ 97
Appendix "A" (Rates)................. 99
Job Grading ......................... 100
Appendix "B" (M.L.O.’S)..................................... 124
Appendix "C" (C.O.L.A)...................................... 125
Appendix “D” (Maintenance
Layoff Guarantee) ..................... .	126
Appendix “E” (Pensions)..................................... 128
Appendix “F” (New Pension Agreement)	132
Letters..................................................... 134
ARTICLE I
PURPOSE
1.01	It is the purpose of this Agreement to maintain and promote harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to set forth hours of work, rates of pay and other conditions of employment and to provide an amicable method of settling any difference or grievance which may arise relating to conditions of employment.
1.02	The parties agree that to ensure the betterment of the Leamington Plant (employment levels and year-round operations), a joint Union/Management Committee will be established to review all aspects of the operation.
ARTICLE II RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining
representative for all its employees at its Leamington Operations save and except Supervisors, and persons above this rank, persons solely and permanently employed as Office Staff, Quality Control (Laboratory) Staff and those covered by other Collective Agreements.
2.02	The term "employee" when used in this Agreement refers only to persons employed by the Company within the bargaining unit described in this Article and who have acquired seniority as set out in Sub-Article 10.02.
2.03	The term "probationary employee" when used in this Agreement refers only to persons who have not completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who have not acquired seniority as set out in Sub-Article 10.02.
2.04	The term "seasonal employee” when used in this Agreement refers only to persons employed by the Company within the bargaining unit described in this Article, but who are hired by the Company between July 1st and November 1st of any year.
2.05	The only provisions of this Agreement which apply to probationary employees and seasonal employees are those provisions which are specifically applicable to probationary employees and seasonal employees and such provisions shall only apply to probationary employees and seasonal employees to the extent specifically provided in such provisions.
2.06	Whenever the singular or masculine are used in this Agreement, the same shall be construed as meaning the plural or the feminine where the context or the parties hereto so require.
ARTICLE III UNION SECURITY
All employees who are now members of the Union or who may later become members shall remain members in good standing during the lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
All employees, including seasonal employees, who may hereafter become employees in the bargaining unit, shall immediately upon expiration of seventy-five (75) consecutive working days with the Company, or after seventy-five (75) intermittent working days within a period of five (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each of such
3.01
3.02
-5-
3.03
3.04
3.05(a)
(b)
months, become and remain members in good standing of the Union during the lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
The Company will furnish to the Union, every two (2) weeks, a list of employees with more than fifty (50) and less than fifty-five (55) consecutive working days with the Company.
The Company will deduct Union dues from the pay of each member of the Union when so authorized by such members in writing on a form acceptable to the Company; Such deduction shall be made monthly on the employee's first pay day of each calendar month and the amounts so deducted shall be transmitted to the Financial Secretary of Local 459 within twelve (12) days following each deduction. Upon written notice from the Financial Secretary of the Union, the Company agrees to deduct any assessment which may be levied from time to time.
The Company will provide the Union six (6) months advance notice of permanent plant closure in order to set up an Adjustment Committee.
The Company will provide the Union three (3) months advance notice of partial plant closure in order to set up an Adjustment Committee. This shall apply only to a permanent layoff of fifty (50) or more seniority employees. This section shall not apply to seasonal operations.
-6-
ARTICLE IV
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(i)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(ii)	Hire, classify, direct and lay-off;
(iii)	Discharge, transfer, promote, demote, suspend, or otherwise discipline employees subject to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance as herein provided;
(iv)	Make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employee provided they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement;
(v)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacture, schedules of production, kinds and location of machines and tools to be used, processes of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced and the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations.
4.02	It is understood that the cause for which the Company may summarily suspend employees (provided that the suspension will not preclude the Company from discharging the employee) include the following:
-7-
(i)	Intoxication;
(ii)	Disorderly conduct;
(iii)	Insubordination;
(iv)	Unauthorized absenteeism; .
(v)	Neglect of duty;
(vi)	Carelessness endangering the safety of others;
(vii)	Theft or destruction of Company property.
4.03	The termination of any employee without seniority may be for any reason as determined by the Company.
4.04	The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V WAGES
5.01(a) The minimum hourly rate of pay shall be as follows:
After seventy-five (75) days of actual work $10.00
Any new employee obtaining seventy-five (75) days of actual work will receive the new rate of $11.00.
8-
(b)
After seventy -five (75) days of actual work with the Company, to be paid at 50% of the job rate. After two hundred and thirty (230) days of actual work with the Company, to be paid at 60% of the job rate. After three hundred and thirty (330) days of actual work with the Company, to be paid at 75% of the job rate. After six hundred and ninety (690) days of actual work with the Company, the rates for all jobs under the job grading plan are applicable for all employees. In the event of a layoff the employee’s seniority day count will be frozen. Upon reinstatement, the employee’s seniority day count will continue without interruption.
Eg:	75 days worked, and laid off for 76 days when reinstated the employee
would start at 75 days.
(c) COLA payments will be based on fiscal year end versus April 30th calendar period end.
5.02	The rules and regulations and rates under the job grading plan appear as
Appendix "A" hereto and shall be considered as part of this Agreement.
-9-
JURY DUTY
5.04	It is agreed that any employee, seasonal or otherwise, who have been in the employ of the Company for a period of seventy-five (75) days of actual work within a period of one year and who have been laid off and rehired within one year from the date of lay-off will receive, on rehiring, the rate of pay which was being received by them at the time of lay-off, together with any increases agreed to during the period of lay-off. Provided that, in any case, the rate of pay to be received by such an employee, upon rehiring, shall not exceed the rate then being paid to employees who have completed seventy-five (75) days of actual work.
5.05	All employees required serving on a jury or subpoenaed shall, for the period of such service be compensated for the difference between the daily amount received by them as jurors and eight hours pay at the rate paid the employee the last working day before serving jury duty.
BEREAVEMENT PAY
5.06	An employee will be granted a leave of absence from work as required of three (3) days in the case of absence due to death of the employee's spouse, child, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, member of his step family, grandparent, grandparent-in-law, and grandchild, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
-10-
Such employee will be paid eight (8) hours per day at the rate he received on the last day worked before such leave for each day following the death of the employees relative up to and including the day after the funeral, provided such days are regular working days upon which the employee would have otherwise been scheduled to work and the leave does not exceed three (3) days.
In no case will an employee be paid for more than three (3) work days nor will an employee be paid for Saturday or Sunday under any circumstances. If the employee cannot attend the funeral, only one work day will be granted provided satisfactory evidence of death is furnished to the company.
5.07	Employees working on the afternoon (second) shift and on the night (third) shift shall receive their pay Thursday evening.
5.08	A cost of living allowance will be paid in accordance with Appendix "C".
5.09	Job titles and grades applicable to each department shall be posted in the respective departments. Job instructions for plant jobs will be completed.
ARTICLE VI
SHIFT PREMIUMS
6.01	A shift premium of seventy-four (.74) cents shall be paid for all hours worked
after 3:00 p.m. on a regular afternoon (second) shift and a shift premium of ninety-six (.96) cents for all hours worked prior to 8:00 a.m. on a regular night (third) shift. To qualify for a shift premium on the night (third) shift, an employee must work the majority of his standard eight (8) hours on that shift, prior to 8:00 a.m. To qualify for a full shift premium on the afternoon
-11-
(second) shift or night (third) shift, an employee must work fifty percent (50%) or more standard eight (8) hours on his respective shift.
6.02	Where an employee has less than eight (8) hours off between shifts, a
premium of time and one-half will be paid for such time as is worked by him during such an eight (8) hour period, except where employees with the
consent of supervision trade shifts for the employees' convenience.
' ’ • ^ . ’ ■
ARTICLE VII
HOURS OF WORK
7.01 (a) Hours of work shall be scheduled by the Company in accordance with its requirements.
(b) It is agreed and understood that Monday commences at 12:00 a.m. (Sunday midnight).
7.02(a) Time and one-half shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week, Monday through Friday, except to Highway Transport Drivers who shall receive straight time pay for ail hours^ worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any one week period. For the purposes of this paragraph, a shift shall be deemed to fall on the day on which it commences.	.
-12-
(b)	During the period that tomatoes are being processed, probationary and seasonal employees shall be paid over-time at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of forty-four (44) hours per week (Monday through Sunday. The Company shall post notices prior to any work week when this period shall begin.
(c)	Tomato Seasonal Continental Work Week Eight (8) week duration only
All departments (all units)
5x8 hour shifts starting any day of the week/five (5) days on, two (2) days off.
All hours in excess of eight (8) hours per shift forty (40) hours per week) will be paid at one and one-half times the regular rate.
Employees required working on the sixth (6th) or seventh (fth) day will be paid at a rate of one and one-half times for all hours worked.
The number of times the affected employees will be expected to work Saturday/Sunday at regular rate will be limited to five (5) times out of the eight (8) week period. This is unlikely to impact more than 200 employees. .
-13-
During the season, it is agreed that the sixth (6th) and seventh (7th) consecutive work day shall be treated as a Saturday and Sunday with respect to the hours of work and overtime provision in the Collective Agreement with the exception that the seventh (7th) day will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked, (rather than double time).
Applies to seasonal and probationary employees only.
7.03	Double time shall be paid for work performed on Sunday except to
probationary and seasonal employees during the tomato season.
7.04(a) When the Company decides that overtime work is necessary, throughout the period of Monday to Friday, inclusive, it will be first assigned to employees on the same shift who are performing the work required, and then by shift seniority, provided they are ready and available for such work.
(b) When overtime work is required on Saturday, Sunday or on a paid holiday, it will be allocated by seniority on a shift basis, provided the employees concerned have the necessary skill, merit and ability to perform the work required. Shifts will be determined by the following guidelines:
(i)	The employees shall be deemed to be working on the shift on which he has spent the majority of his time during the week, Monday to Friday, preceding the Saturday and Sunday overtime. Example: an employee who works three (3) days on days and two (2) on nights would be considered for the day shift overtime on Saturday and Sunday, even though he was not on days on the Friday preceding the overtime.
-14-
(ii)	In a week in which a paid holiday occurs, the holiday shall be considered as a day shift, provided the employee does not work a different shift on the holiday.
(iii)	If an employee is absent due to illness, he shall be considered as working on the shift he was scheduled for the day he took sick.
(iv)	Employees trading an individual day or night shift or by the week, shall be considered as working on their original scheduled shift.
(v)	Availability for weekend work or holiday while on vacation: You must notify your supervisor if you are available for the overtime by eight (8 a.m.) Thursday morning. Overtime, if available will be assigned for day shift.
(c) It is understood that when skilled maintenance work is required by the Company on Saturday, Sunday or on a paid holiday, it will be distributed as equally as practicable among the skilled maintenance employees within the respective skilled ^ classifications concerned. An employee who declines such an overtime assignment will be credited therewith in the administration of this understanding.
MAINTENANCE OVERTIME EQUALIZATION RULES
For the purposes of this agreement, overtime hours will be accumulated on a calendar year basis and zeroed at the end of the year.
15-
1.	Overtime hours shall be recorded for all maintenance personnel, including apprentices and excluding Maintenance Line Operators, separately for the following groups: Can and Baby Food Production Maintenance; Glass Production Maintenance; Veg Prep Maintenance; Warehouse Maintenance; Electrical Maintenance; Central Stores; Machinists; Maintenance Operators in Flex Pack.
2.	Each departments overtime will be monitored and posted weekly. It is the responsibility of supervision in each department to review this information and initiate appropriate action to ensure equalization of the overtime.
The Union agrees to meet with the company quarterly or as needed to discuss and review overtime hours and attempt to resolve problems that arise to ensure the s equalization of overtime.
3.	At the end of the calendar year, all hours of unequaled overtime over forty (40) hours will be paid out at straight time to those employees that were over the designated amount. Formula as follows: High person hours of each department minus 40 = Base O.T. Subtract each departmental employee’s overtime hours from the base. Any hours remaining will be paid.
4.	Hours will be charged according to the rate of pay. For example, if paid at time and one-half, then hours will be charged at 1.5 times. If paid at double time, then hours will be charged at 2 times.
5.	All accumulated hours will be brought to zero (0) at the beginning of each calendar year.
-16-
6.	It is understood that when skilled Maintenance overtime is required by the company, it will be distributed as equally as possible amongst the skilled maintenance employees within their classifications and departments as per the collective agreement. If additional personnel still are required then you may canvass other departments by low hours. An employee who worked or declines such overtime assigned will be credited with such hours.
7.	Overtime required through the week shall be offered to the person working on the job if any, then by low hours on the shift within the department, with those performing the overtime work and those refusing being charged for the number of overtime hours worked.
8.	If a job started during the week and requires weekend overtime, low hours by shift will dictate who is asked to complete this work according to the trade required, unless the project has been assigned a dedicated crew and it is considered more practical to keep this crew working in that job.
9.	The only time employees will not be charged is when they are available and not asked, on Bereavement or Company business.
10.	Call-ins for overtime will be by department seniority and those refusing to work or those not available will be charged.
11.	New employees, after attaining seniority, or those transferring from another department, shall be given an average of the overtime hours attained at that time by the department.
-17-
12.	If more than one employee has the same amount of hours, the senior person shall be asked to work first.
13.	Any full-time paid by the Union representative will not participate in these equalized overtime rules. This refers to the president's position.
14.	Shift Trading: For the purpose of weekend work, you will be considered to be on the shift that you worked that week.
15.	Availability for weekend work/or holiday while on vacation: You must notify your supervisor if you are available for the overtime by Thursday morning. Overtime, if available will be assigned for days by low hours.
16.	Any work that arises after the weekend schedule is prepared on Friday will be treated as an emergency call in.
(a)	When the Company decides that overtime work is necessary on Sunday, during the tomato season and pickle season, it will be allocated as outlined in 7.04 (a) above provided the assignment of overtime does not interfere with normal shift rotation.
-18-
ARTICLE VIII
HOLIDAYS
8.01 (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Employees other than probationary or seasonal employees who work on the day upon which any of the following holidays are observed, namely:
New Year's Day Easter Monday Victoria Day Civic Holiday Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday Canada Day Labour Day Boxing Day Christmas Day
shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in addition to the holiday allowance of eight (8) hours as provided in paragraph 8.02. These payments shall be computed on the basis of the rate applicable to the job performed.
Two (2) additional days as determined by the Company will be granted as a recognized holiday during the Christmas Season.
A holiday allowance of eight (8) hours will be paid for the last working day prior to Christmas Day and the last working day prior to New Year's Day subject to the conditions set forth in paragraphs 8.02 and 8.03.
Each of the holidays will be observed Monday through Friday.
-19-
8.02	Employees other than probationary or seasonal employees not required to
work on such recognized holidays shall receive a holiday allowance of eight (8) hours at the rate paid the employee the last working day before the holiday, provided he works his full scheduled working day immediately preceding and his full scheduled working day immediately following such holiday unless absent for any of the following reasons:
(i)	Personal illness (proven by a Doctor's certificate acceptable to the Company);
(ii)	Quarantined by order of a qualified health authority;
(iii)	Death in the immediate family;
(iv)	Compulsory Court attendance as a witness or on jury duty;
(v)	If absent up to five (5) working days when written leave-of-absence therefore has
been granted by the employee's Department Head;
(vi)	Absent on bona fide Union Business up to ten (10) working days.
8.03	In order to qualify for pay for the holidays as above, the employee's scheduled
working day herein before referred to must fall within three (3) working days before and within three (3) working days after the said holiday (or within six (6) working days before and within six (6) working days after the said holiday where paragraph 8.02 (i) applies and must be worked.
-20
8.04	In any week in which a paid holiday as provided by this Agreement falls, the Company shall pay time and one-half, for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or thirty-two (32) hours per week except to Highway Transport Drivers as aforesaid. Highway Transport Drivers will be paid overtime after thirty-two (32) hours per week.
ARTICLE IX
REPORTING ALLOWANCE AND CALL-IN PAY
9.01	An employee who is scheduled or notified to report for work on time shall be entitled to a minimum of eight (8) hours straight-time pay, unless previously notified by the Company not to report for work, provided that no reporting allowance shall be paid for any period of time worked by an employee within his regularly scheduled shift.
Provided further, that if requested by the Company, the employee shall perform a minimum of eight (8) hours of such available work as the Company may assign, and, further provided that the Company’s obligation to grant minimum reporting pay as above provided shall not apply where failure to furnish work is due to causes beyond the Company’s control.
9.02	An employee whojs called and returns to work after he has completed his scheduled shift and has left the premises of the Company shall be paid, regardless of the amount of time worked, not less than four (4) hours straight-time pay.
-21-
ARTICLE X
SENIORITY
10.01 Seniority means length of continuous service with the Company. It entitles the employee to preference in cases of decrease or increase of the working force.
10.02(a) An employee, other than a seasonal employee, acquires seniority after completing the probationary period of seventy-five (75) consecutive working days with the Company or after seventy-five (75) intermittent working days within a period of five (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each of such months, but when so acquired, the employee’s seniority dates from the date first hired.
(b)	The Company agrees to post once every two (2) years, preferred jobs only, in the departments that have agreed to such, by 2/3 consent. These jobs will then be offered to employees within their department by highest seniority.
SEASONAL
10.03 A “seasonal employee” acquires seniority when retained in the Company’s service after November 1st of any year and after completing the established seventy-five (75) day’s probationary period, but when an employee’s seniority is so acquired, his seniority dates from the date first hired if the seventy-five (75) working days are accumulated within a period of five (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each of such months.
-22-
10.04	A new employee’s seniority applies in the department to which he is assigned at the end of his probationary period, and continues in that department until the employee is transferred to another department.
10.05	Wherever practicable the Company will give preference in hiring a seasonal employee, to those who were employed during the previous seasonal operations.
PROMOTIONS
10.06	(a) In Connection with promotions, other than appointments to supervisory positions, upgrading, demotions, layoffs, and rehiring, seniority will govern where skill, merit and ability are comparatively equal. Promotion shall be on a departmental basis and the company shall give written notice to the Steward of the Department of any promotion.
(b)	Upon making a promotion to a job having a classified rate, the Company will
take into consideration employees’ special qualifications as on file with the Human Resources Department.	.
(c)	In the application of paragraph 10.07 (a), time spent in filling a temporary or
seasonal vacancy shall not result in an employee being given preference over employees who normally perform the job.	.
-23-
SENIORITY LOSS
10.07	An employee loses seniority when the employee:
(a)	Quits or resigns;
(b)	Is discharged for just cause;
(c)	In the case of employees with seniority with two (2) years or more, is laid off. for lack of work, for a continuous period in excess of four (4) years;
(d)	Fails to report for work when called without a valid reason;
(e)	Fails to report for work within seventy-two (72) hours after being sent a written notice by registered mail addressed to the employee’s last address known to the Company, advising that all seniority rights shall terminate if the employee fails to report within seventy-two (72) hours of such notice, unless the employee obtains a written extension of the time within which to report within seventy-two (72) hours of such notice.
SHORTAGE OF WORK
10.08	In the event of a shortage of work in any department, the senior employees shall have preference for the work available providing that there is no bumping within the day.
10.09	In the event of a temporary shutdown of one or more departments, plant-wide seniority will not apply to the employees involved with respect to shutdowns of two (2) weeks’ duration or less provided that this may only be applied once per calendar year to the same employees. The Company shall provide employees thirty (30) days notice of the shutdown period.
-24-
However, this article shall not apply to the July and December shutdowns as detailed in Article 11.09. For the purpose of clarity, the December shutdown ends on December 31 of each calendar year and any and all part weeks for the purpose of this article are deemed to be a full week shutdown.
If any of the paid holidays under paragraph 8.01 occur during such a shut-down, employees who are laid off under this provision shall receive holiday allowance in accordance with paragraph 8.02, provided they work the full scheduled working day within three (3) working days immediately following the shutdown. Employees who continue to work during shutdown shall qualify for holiday allowance in accordance with paragraphs 8.01 and 8.02.
10.10	In the case of lay-offs other than temporary the following procedure shall apply;
(a)	Probationary employees shall be laid off first.
(b)	(i) Thereafter employees shall be laid off according to plant-wide seniority, provided that the employee entitled by seniority to work available has the necessary skill, merit and ability to perform that work. Position on the seniority list shall be determined by chronological^order of hiring.
(i). Employees working in the Maintenance Department will have a special seniority status. As long as they are working in the maintenance department, they cannot be bumped off their jobs by higher seniority employees from production departments, who are being laid off due to a plant wide layoff.
-25-
(iii) Employees regularly engaged in sterilizing in this Department will have special seniority status similar to the Maintenance Department regarding lay-offs. As long as they are sterilizing, they cannot be bumped off their job by higher seniority employees from other departments who are being laid off due to a plant wide lay-off. . This clause will not apply in the event of a permanent layoff in the workforce.
HEALTH
10.11(a) The Company and Union agree that, where practical, the Company will try to place an employee absent on sick leave or compensation, on jobs which they are capable of performing. If necessary, in the assignment of this work, the employees must agree to waive their seniority rights.
(b)	Notwithstanding the above displacement procedures, the Employer and the Union, at
'	'	•	•	c
any time, can formulate special measures to modify the above displacement procedures to take into account the desire of the parties to minimize the impact of displacement or to deal with particular operational considerations.
10.12(a) A pregnant employee may apply for and take a leave of absence at the end of five (5) months of pregnancy and shall be entitled to be re-employed with full seniority rights provided she reports for work within two (2) months after birth, unless she produces a medical certificate satisfactory to the Company showing that she is unable to do so.
(b) In the case of adoption of a pre-school child, the mother or father may apply for leave of absence of three (3) months effective the date of receipt of the child and shall be entitled to be re-employed with full seniority rights at the termination of such leave.
-26-
10.13	The Company will endeavor to place an employee having long and faithful service who has become unable to handle his job in another job which he/she is competent to perform.
10.14	An employee who presents a medical certificate showing that he has been ill or disabled by accident shall maintain his seniority rights during the period of such illness or disability.
10.15	(a) Leave of absence if granted in writing by the company will not affect an employee’s seniority rating. An employee may under special circumstances receive a maximum of three (3) weeks leave of absence through his Department Head.
(b)The Company shall grant leave of absence without pay, for a period of up to six (6) months, for time during which he/she is serving sentence of incarceration.
10.16	(a) In any department where the job rotating system is now in effect, the present method of rotation shall remain in effect, with the following provisions:
(i)	Employees shall be treated equally with regard to being assigned higher paid work, providing they can perform such work
(ii)	No employee shall be compelled to rotate on jobs which he is not physically capable of performing;
(iii)	Employees who normally do not rotate will not be compelled to do so, so long as it is practicable.
—27-
(b)	In any department where the rotating system is not now in effect, the department shall continue to operate on this basis so long as it is practicable, and the senior employee in the department shall be given preference for the higher rated jobs.
(c)	The employees subject to the above provisions must have the necessary skill, merit and ability to perform the work.
VACANCIES
10.17(a) The term “vacancy” for the purpose of this Article, shall be defined as an opening in the departmental seniority list where the number of persons required by the Company exceeds the number employed therein, due to an employee’s transfer, death, retirement, termination of employment, or an opening of a new department, and the duration of which is expected to exceed sixty-five (65) working days. The vacancy will be posted for five (5) working days throughout the factory. Applications for transfer to a posted vacancy may be in writing by employees throughout the factory who have more than two (2) years seniority.
(b)	In making a transfer, seniority will govern where skill, merit and ability are comparatively equal, it being understood that the Company will not be obligated to select an applicant if the applicant is not able to meet the normal requirements of. the job.
Nothing herein contained will prevent the Company from filling such vacancy with a candidate from outside the bargaining unit if none of the applicants from within the unit possess the necessary skill, merit and ability.
(c)	The job vacated by an employee transferred under these provisions will be posted but any subsequent vacancy resulting there from; will not be subject to posting.
-28-
(d)	An employee who fails to fill the requirements of a posted vacancy, will be transferred back to the department he worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he would have continued to work in that department. Such employee may not apply for the same posted vacancy for a period of twelve (12) months.
(e)	In the case of arbitration, not more than one employee may claim an improper selection for the same posted vacancy.
TRANSFER
10.18	When an employee after being transferred is laid off for any reason other than those specified in Article 4.02 of this Agreement, such lay-off shall not interfere with the accumulation of seniority in the new department. When so recalled, such an employee will have preference over employees with less departmental seniority to come back into the department he was working in at the time of layoff.
When so reinstated, the accumulation of seniority will continue until six (6) months after the date of the first transfer, or three (3) months, whichever is applicable.
10.19	(a) An employee who is transferred from one department to another department as a result of his own request acquires no departmental seniority in that new department for a period of six (6) months except over employees brought into the department after the date of his transfer but if retained in that department after a period of six (6) months, his departmental seniority based upon his total service as set forth above, applies in that new department only.
-29-
(b)	An employee who is transferred from one department to another department by the Company, acquires no departmental seniority in the new department for a period of three (3) months except over employees brought into .the department after the date of his transfer but if retained in that department after a period of three (3) months, his departmental seniority based upon his total service as set forth above, applies in such new department. However, an employee, who is transferred by the Company to a new department as a result of a reduction in the number of employees in his former department due to a technological change, shall acquire seniority in the new department as of date of transfer.
(c)	Where the transfer of a person in the employ of the Company from outside the
bargaining unit into the bargaining unit is mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union, such person (employee) acquires no seniority within the bargaining unit for a period of six (6) months except over employees brought into the bargaining unit after the date of his/her transfer, but if retained in the bargaining unit after a period of six (6) months, the employee’s bargaining unit seniority will be based upon his/her total service with the Company.	.
(d)	In the application of (c) above, and employee who fails to fill the requirements of the position within six (6) months from transfer into the bargaining unit, at the option of the company, will be transferred back to the department he/she worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he/she would have otherwise continued to work in that department except for his/her transfer, or to some other department within his/her original bargaining unit for placement, if any, on the basis of skill, ability and seniority.
-30-
(e)	In the application of (c) above, for the purpose of layoffs within the period of one (1) year following the employee's transfer into the bargaining unit from outside the bargaining unit, at the option of the Company, will be transferred back to the department he/she worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he/she would otherwise continued to work in that department except for his/her transfer, or to some other department within his/her original bargaining unit for placement, if any, on the basis of skill ability and seniority.
10.20	An employee transferred to any position within the Company excluded from the bargaining unit under this contract and subsequently transferred back to the bargaining unit within a period of one (1) year, shall retain his full seniority within the bargaining unit and shall be considered to have been continuously employed therein.
Any other employee transferred from a position within the Company outside the bargaining unit shall acquire seniority in the bargaining unit only over employees brought into the bargaining unit after the date of his transfer.
LAY-OFF
10.21	If a temporary lay-off occurs due to an emergency, breakdown or a condition beyond the control of the company, departmental seniority will not apply for a period of within two working days.
■31-
10.22	Seniority for the purpose of temporary lay-offs will be applied separately in the following departments, subject to such changes in the future as the interest of the business may require and as agreed to by the Union;
1.	Vinegar/Paste Storage Department
2.	Can Filling Department
3.	Can and Baby Food Production Maintenance Department
4.	Cook Room Department
5.	Glass Production Maintenance Department
6.	General Filling, Labeling and Packing Department
7.	Building Service Department
8.	Warehousing Department
9.	Company Store (D & R) Department
10.	Supply and Storage Department
11.	Garage Equipment Department
12.	Production Preparation and Strained Food Kitchens Department and Rig Room, including Bean Picking
13.	Cereal Department
14.	Production Equipment Clean-Up Department
15.	Can Labeling Department
16.	Flexible Packaging Department
17.	General Labor Department
18.	Central Stores Department
19.	Warehouse Maintenance Department
20.	Vegetable Maintenance Department
21.	Instrument, Electronics and Electrical Department
-32-
Employees hired into the General Labor Department shall be assigned a new department within two years.
Seniority lists will be posted in each department semi-annually. Position on the seniority list shall be determined by chronological order of hiring.
10.23	The Company will forward to the Union ten (10) copies of all departmental and plant seniority lists semi-annually.
10.24	(a) The Local Union President and Chief Steward shall have the privilege of working on the day shift.
(b)	The first Vice-President and Assistant Chief Steward shall have the privilege of working
the day shift if the President or Chief Steward is respectively absent for extended periods of time such as vacations, conventions etc.	-
(c)	The Chief Steward or his/her replacement will be paid at a rate of pay determined by his/her classification or years of service.
ARTICLE XI VACATIONS
11.01	Each regular employee shall be entitled to a vacation, its length to be determined as follows:
-33-
(a)	If employed less than two hundred (200) working days during the previous calendar year, one (1) day of vacation in the second calendar year for each twenty (20) working days service in the previous calendar year;
(b)	If employed two hundred (200) working days or more but less than one (1) full calendar year during the previous calendar year; two (2) weeks of vacation in the second calendar year;
(c)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his second (2nd) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive two (2) weeks of vacation with pay;
(d)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his fifth (5th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive three (3) weeks of vacation with pay;
(e)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his tenth (10th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive four (4) weeks of vacation pay;
(f)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his eighteenth (18,h) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive five (5) weeks of vacation with pay;
(g)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his twenty-fifth (25th)
-34-
and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall
receive six (6) weeks of vacation with pay.
The following pertains to anyone hired after June 25, 2011:
Employees hired on or after June 25, 2011 shall be entitled to a vacation, its length to be determined as follows:
i)	If employed less than two hundred (200) working days during the previous calendar year, one (1) day of vacation in the second calendar year for each twenty (20) working days of service in the previous calendar year but in no case shall exceed two (2) weeks of vacation.
ii)	If employed two hundred (200) working days or more but less than one (1) full calendar year during the previous calendar year; two (2) weeks of vacation in the second calendar year; .
iii)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his second (2nd) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive two (2) weeks of vacation with pay;
iv)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his seventh (7th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive three (3) weeks of vacation with pay;
v)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his twelve (12th) and
-35-
each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall
receive four (4) weeks of vacation pay;
vi)	During the calendar year in which the employee celebrates his twentieth (20th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive five (5) weeks of vacation with pay;
11.02	Five (5) working days shall constitute one week.
11.03	Vacation with pay shall be calculated as follows:
(a)	Employees entitled to two (2) weeks or less vacation 4 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(b)	Employees entitled to three (3) weeks vacation 6 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(c)	Employees entitles to four (4) weeks vacation 8 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(d)	Employees entitled to five (5) weeks vacation 10 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(e)	Vacation pay shall be calculated as follows:
(i)	If the employee has worked 500 or more hours during the preceding calendar year,
two (2) percent of earnings for such preceding calendar year for each week of vacation
-36-
entitlement, or the equivalent of the employee’s regular hourly wage rate for a forty-hour (40) week, which ever if greater;
(ii)	If the employee has worked less then 500 hours during the preceding year, 2 percent of the employee’s earnings for such preceding calendar year each week of vacation entitlement;
(iii)	In calculating time worked, absence while receiving Workers’ compensation, Weekly Indemnity, or casual union business, paid holidays and vacations will be credited as time worked on the basis of eight (8) hours for each day the employee would otherwise have regularly worked, provided that the employee has worked during such preceding calendar year.
(iv)	In the case of employees who move from job to job, their job grade rate for vacation pay will be determined by the job grade rate they receive for the third (3rd) week prior to the week of their vacation. If the employee did not receive (40) hours of pay for that week, the determining week would then be the fourth (4th) week. You would continue to substitute the next prior week until a regular week of work was found.
11.04(a) When a “paid” holiday occurs while an employee is on vacation, he will be paid “holiday” paid in addition to regular vacation pay.
(b) (i) Employees will have the option of taking an additional day off on either the Friday preceding or the Monday following their vacation, if a paid holiday occurs during their regular vacation period. The Employees must notify supervision of their intention no later than one (1) week prior to the commencement of their vacation.
-37-
(ii) Employees whose vacation monies are considerably reduced because of absence the preceding year, may elect to take a reduced vacation time during the current year equivalent to the amount of their vacation monies.
The amount of vacation time to be taken is to be reviewed by the Human Resources Department, subject to legal requirements.
11.05	(a) Vacations must be taken in periods of not less than one (1) week in which case he/she must take all of his vacation at one time. Employees entitled to a vacation will take it when convenient to the Company. Exceptions to this policy, other than exception as listed in 11.05 (b), will only be granted under special circumstances and must be approved by the Factory Manager.
(b) Employees who are entitled to vacation may elect to take up to two (2) week’s vacation one day at a time, after retaining the vacation weeks to meet the requirements of Section 11.09, except such vacation may not be taken during the Seasonal Period. Employees must provide the Company with advance notice at least 5 work days prior to the requested day of vacation, except when an employee is using a vacation day or days when the employee has an involuntary loss of work day or days) i.e. A “home -no work” day or days) at any time during the year, including the Seasonal Period, and on the same day notifies the Timekeeper of his intention to use a vacation day or days.
(c)	VACATION BANK
Employees may carry over and bank a maximum of five (5) unused vacation days per year, with the bank not exceeding five (5) days in total.
The Vacation days accumulated in the vacation bank may be used in addition to their
-38-
regular vacation time to which an employee is eligible during any year. Any vacation in the vacation bank shall be credited against the year of the vacation earnings.
11.06	When practicable, vacations will be scheduled as requested by the employees in employee seniority order up to May 1st, thereafter on a first come, first serve basis, except that efficient operations of the plant shall be the first consideration and the Company shall have the right to assign vacations on that basis.
11.07	An eligible employee upon being laid off indefinitely without having received the paid vacation provided under this Article, will receive vacation pay accumulated to the employee’s credit at the end of the previous year, unless the employee notifies the Company in writing at the time of lay-off that he prefers to postpone such paid vacations until in the calendar year in which he is laid off. Vacation Pay will be made by cheque.
11.08	Upon termination of employment, an employee will receive vacation pay accumulated to his credit.
11.09	ANNUAL PLANT SHUTDOWNS
Two (2) weeks in July Two (2) weeks in December Statutory Holidays will be included in the Two (2) week shutdown in December
-39-
-Posted by February 1st indicating what departments will be shutdown.	.
-If after February 1st changes are required that necessitate departments working, volunteers will be sought by Department seniority and then by Plant seniority.
-Employees eligible for three (3) or fewer weeks of vacation must take one (1) week during either the July, December or any other shutdown scheduled by the Company.
-Two (2) week mandatory vacation must be taken during the same shutdowns as above for those employees with four (4) or more weeks of vacation.
ARTICLE XII
NON-STRIKE PROVISION
12.01	The Union agrees to accept and abide by all the terms and conditions of this contract and during its term will not permit its members to engage in any walkout, sit-down, slow-down, or other interference with or interruption of work, and that it will not call, countenance or otherwise encourage any walk-out or strike. Any employee violating this provision shall be subject to disciplinary action as determined by the Company. The Company agrees and abides by all the terms and conditions of this contract and during the term will not lock out the employees.	'
ARTICLE XIII
SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES
13.01	The Union will select Departmental Stewards and a Chief Steward for the plant.
The Company will be advised by the union of the names of its stewards and will recognize such representatives of the Union in processing grievances as hereinafter set forth.
-40-
13.02	All grievances shall be dealt with during working hours where possible without loss time or pay to the parties involved.
13.03	It is understood that Stewards, have their regular work to perform on behalf of the Company and will spend only such time during working hours as is necessary to service grievances as provided under the grievance procedure. If it is necessary to service a grievance as authorized by this Agreement, they will not leave their regular work without first obtaining the permission of Department Head of the Department in which they are respectively employed. It is also understood that a Steward shall not enter another Department without first obtaining the permission of the Department Head of such department and notifying him as to the nature of the grievance and personnel involved.
The Steward, upon leaving a Department after servicing a grievance, will notify the Department Head thereof, and upon resuming his regular work, after servicing a grievance in his own or another department will report to his own department Head. Whenever, in the opinion of the Department head concerned, more than a reasonable period of time has been taken by a Steward in servicing a grievance, the Steward’s Department Head may decline to approve payment to such steward for such excess time. The term “Department Head” shall mean the person supervising the work force.
The Chief Steward shall be full time paid by the Company but maintain seniority rights for departmental seniority.
13.04	It is understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given his Department Head an opportunity to adjust his complaint which shall be presented by the employee who shall be accompanied by his Departmental Steward to his Department Head
■41
within three (3) full working days after the circumstances giving rise to the complaint have originated or occurred. If an employee has an unsettled complaint, it may be taken up as a grievance within three (3) full working days after receiving the Department Head’s decision in the following manner and sequence:
Step No. 1
Between the employees, who may be accompanied by his Departmental Steward, and his Department Head. The grievance shall be presented in writing and the decision of the Department Head shall be rendered in writing within (2) full working days following the presentation of the grievance.
Failing settlement, then:
Step No. 2:
The matter may be presented in writing within two (2) working days to the Human Resources Department at which time the written record of the grievance shall be submitted and the Human Resources Department’s written decision given within not more than three (3) working days following receipt of the written grievance at this step.
Failing settlement, then:
Step No. 3
Within five (5) full working days following the decision under Step 2: the grievance shall be submitted as part of the agenda for a meeting between the Company’s representatives and members of the Plant Grievance committee, not exceeding six (6) in number. An International Representative of the union may be present as such meeting. The decision of the Company’s representatives shall be given in writing within five (5) full working days
-42-
of the said meeting.
13.05	Failing settlement of any difference between the parties under Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure, arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, such difference or question may be taken to arbitration as provided in Article 14.
If no written request for arbitration is received within ten (10) working days after the final decision under the Grievance Procedure is given, it shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned.
13.06	Any difference arising directly between the Company and Union may be submitted by either party at Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure and time limits provided thereby shall appropriately apply to both parties.
13.07	The aggrieved employee may be present during each step of the Grievance Procedure and at Arbitration. When a group of employees has a complaint or grievance it shall first be taken up under Step No. 2 and they may be presented by the appropriate Steward and not more than two (2) employees.
13.08	Any adjustment arising under a settlement through the Grievance Procedure or under a decision of an Arbitration Board shall not be made retroactive prior to the date the matter is first presented under the Grievance Procedure, except as to improper classification or bookkeeping error involving an employee’s earnings.
13.09	All decisions arrived at, between representatives of the Company and the
-43-
representatives of the Union, at any step of the written grievance procedure, shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union and the employee or employees concerned. The Company shall submit a written reply to each written grievance.
13.10	Failure of the Union or employees to comply with the time limits in Step 1, 2 and 3 above, shall be considered as acceptance of the last answer given, thus disposing of the grievance. Failure of the Company to comply with the time limits provided in Steps 1, 2 and 3 above shall be considered a refusal of the request involved in the grievance and immediate appeal to the next step in the procedure may be taken. When either party desires additional time within which to properly process a grievance, additional time within which to properly process a grievance, additional time within reasonable limits shall be granted by the other party upon written request.
13.11	The Company will supply the Union with a list of the Department Heads and assistant Department Heads excluded from the provisions of this Agreement as aforesaid and will notify the Union of any changes thereto.
13.12	At any step in this grievance procedure, the Executive Board of the Local Union shall have the final authority in respect to any aggrieved employee covered by this Agreement, to decline to process a grievance, complaint, difficulty or dispute further if, in the judgment of the Executive Board, such a grievance or dispute lacks merit or lacks justification under the terms of this Agreement, or has been adjusted or justified under the terms of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Executive Board. Once the aggrieved
-44-
employee has been notified either by their steward or the Union Business Representative that their grievance is being dropped because of lack of merit, the aggrieved employee has fifteen (15) calendar days to appeal that decision by sending a letter to the Union President requesting to appear before the Union Executive Board.
13.13	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Article and the provisions of Article XIV of this Agreement do not apply to probationary employees, or to seasonal employees nor shall the provisions of this Article or the provisions of Article XIV of this Agreement be available to the Union on behalf of any probationary employee or on behalf of any seasonal employee.
ARTICLE XIV ARBITRATION
14.01	When either party request that any matter be submitted to arbitration as herein before provided it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement and at the same time nominate an Arbitrator. Within five (5) days thereafter the other party shall nominate an arbitrator; provided, however, that is such party fails to nominate an arbitrator as herein requested, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shalf have power to effect such an appointment upon the application thereto by the party invoking arbitration procedure. The two arbitrators shall, within five (5) days of the appointment of the latter of them, attempt to select by agreement a Chairman of the Arbitration Board. If they are unable to agree upon such a Chairman within such a period of five (5) days, they shall then request the Ontario Labour Arbitration Commission to assist them in selecting an impartial Chairman, provided that the Chairman shall be selected from other than the Civil Service and shall be chosen having regard to his impartiality, his qualifications in interpreting collective bargaining agreements and his
-45
familiarity with industrial relations.
14.02	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
14.03	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous Steps of the Grievance Procedure.
14.04	The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
14.05	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of the majority or failing that, the Chairman of such board will be final and binding upon the parties hereto and the employee or employees concerned.
14.06	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of the arbitrator representing it, and the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE XV
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION REPRESENTATIVES
15.01	(a) A leave of absence with seniority maintained will be granted for a period of two (2) years to two employees (only one per department) at any time accepting a full-time position with the Union subject to renewal upon mutual agreement of the Company and
-46-
the Union. For the interpretation of this clause for leave of absence for union representatives means that the time spent on leave of absence is accumulated for seniority purposes only but not for fringe benefits, e.g. pension service, etc., unless specifically agreed upon.
(b)	Reasonable time off with seniority maintained shall be granted to Union Representatives to attend bona fide Union business, provided competent replacements are available for those employees desiring to be away from work. Every consideration will be given a Union officer to make it possible for him to attend Union meetings.
ARTICLE XVI
SICK AND WELFARE PLAN
16.01	The Company agrees to assume the cost of the following Sick and Welfare Plans with respect to each employee while in the active employment of the company who is eligible for benefits thereunder;
(a)	Ontario Health Insurance Plan;
(b)	(i) The Weekly Indemnity Plan providing a maximum coverage of fifty-two (52) weeks shall provide a weekly indemnity allowance equivalent to the sixty-six and two-thirds (66 2/3) percent Employment Insurance Commission Plan for employees who qualify thereunder;
(ii)	For employees with less than one (1) year’s service with the Company,
-47-
benefits provided will be the length of Company Service;	.
(iii)	Weekly indemnity payments will continue only while employees are on the active payroll;
(iv)	. Weekly Indemnity will be paid from day one (1) for employees who have
out-patient surgery requiring general anesthesia.
(c)	All regular employees shall be entitled to Weekly Indemnity benefits immediately upon reinstatement on the payroll following a lay-off;
(d)	Supplementary Hospitalization Plan to be continued;
(e)	The Company will pay the first $6.50 for dispensing fees on prescriptions;
(f)	The present supplementary Health Care Benefit Plan will remain in effect;
(g)	The Company will provide a Dental Plan; 9 month check-ups;
The O.D.A. will be maintained with a two (2) year lag period.
(h)	The present Long Term Total Disability Plan will remain in effect;
(i)	Out-of-Province/Country emergency treatment;
(j)	The Company will provide a basic vision care plan; one (1) pair every two (2) years;
-48-
two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) every two (2) years. The Company will pay up to thirty ($30) dollars for an annual eye exam when it is not covered by O.H.I.P. A receipt is to be forwarded to the benefit provider for reimbursement.
(k)	Physiotherapy treatment covering visits to licensed clinics;
(l)	Chiropractor coverage $300.00 per year;
(m)	Benefit maximum per life time for retirees or their dependents; $50,000
(n)	Option to continue Life Insurance after retirement at same cost (after 05/01/98) up to age 65.
16.02	(a) The plan documents for all Sick and Welfare Benefits provided under this agreement are in integral part of the Collective Agreement and are hereby incorporated by reference into it. The Company will provide the Union with complete and current documents of all benefit plans.
(b)	The Company will insure and agree if Benefits Carrier is changed the same coverage will apply.
ARTICLE XVII UNIFORMS
17.01	Will be issued according to Company/Government regulations.
-49-
ARTICLE XVIII
BULLETIN BOARDS
18.01	The Company agrees to maintain eight (8) bulletin boards on which the Union may post notices of the time and place of meetings, recreations, social affairs and elections and name of officers or accredited representatives and such other notices as may be approved by the Company. The Union shall deliver one copy of each such notice to the Human Resources Department one-half hour prior to posting.
ARTICLE XIX REST PERIODS
19.01	Employees shall be entitled to two (2) rest periods of ten (10) minutes per eight (8) hour shift and in the event of employees being required to work overtime, they shall be given a ten (10) minute rest period for each two hours of overtime worked.
ARTICLE XX HEALTH AND SAFETY
20.01	The Company will make reasonable provision for the safety and health of the employees in the Plant during their working hours.
20.02	A Union Representative will be appointed by the Union to the Company’s Safety Committee to attend safety meetings. The Company agrees to notify this Union Safety Representative of any lost time accidents in the bargaining unit.
20.03	The Company will provide safety shoes to all employees who are required to wear
-50-
them.
Safety Shoes Allowance to be $100.00 per year of contract.
ARTICLE XXI GENERAL
21.01	(a) During the term of the Collective Agreement and except for cases of emergency, experimental work and instruction of employees work that is traditionally performed by employees covered by this Collective Agreement shall not be contracted out to be performed within the Leamington facilities by any persons not covered .by this Collective Agreement.
(b) The Company shall not contract out any bargaining unit work within the four walls of the Heinz facility beyond the degree that presently exists unless specifically agreed to, in writing, by the union. Any written agreement entered into under this provision shall clearly state the duration, duties and purpose of the permitted contracting out of work.
All agreements under this provision are deemed to conclusively expire with this agreement as provided for in Article XXII-Termination and Renewal and shall not survive the stated expiry date.
(c)	It is agreed that Articles 21.01 (a) and 21.01 (b) shall not otherwise take away from the provisions of Article IV formally Article XI.
21.02	The Chief Steward will be furnished with a copy of any Employee Report given to an employee.
-51-
21.03	It is the Company’s intention to provide the Union with an office on company premises and locators for the term of the contract.
21.04	(a) The Company agrees that no employee shall be discharged or disciplined except for just cause.
(b)	The Company agrees that where meetings are held with employees concerning their work or conduct, which implements any form of official reprimand, discipline or discharge, a Shop Steward or Union Representative will be present. The Shop Steward or Union Representative shall leave the meeting if requested to do so by the employee.
(c)	The Union understands the importance the Company places on its Rules and Regulations in regards to punctual and steady attendance, proper notification in case of absence and conduct on the job.
ARTICLE XXII
TERMINATION AND RENEWAL
22.01 This Agreement shall remain in effect until April 30, 2015 and shall continue in force thereafter from year to year unless either party shall have given sixty (60) days
52-
notice to the other of its desire to terminate the same. In the event of such notice of amendment or termination by either party, each party shall submit to the other party, within fifteen (15) days thereafter its proposed amendments, if any, to this Agreement an the parties agree to meet to commence negotiations with respect to such amendments within not later than a further period of fifteen (15) days.
EXECUTED at LEAMINGTON, Ontario This 26th day of May, 2007
FOR:
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD.
Larry Ruffner Bob Clifford Dino DeSimone Ken Campbell Chris MacDonald
FOR:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS A.F.L. C.I.O. C.L.C. LOCAL 459
Roger Paquette Robert Adams Scott Girardin Robert Crawford Mark Stasso Albert Cappelli Archie Cervini Robin Matteis Jim Wright
APPENDIX “A’ RATES
The Rules and Regulations of the Job Grading Plan As herein under written shall be deemed-To be part of this Agreement.
-54-
The rates under the Job Grading Plan shall be as follows:
Job Grade	Effective	Effective	Effective	Effective	Effective
	May	May	May .	June	May
	1/2010	1/2011	1/2012	1/2013	1/2014
	50 Cents	.11 cents		30 Cents	30 Cents
		included			
1.	23.54	23.78	23.78	24.08	24.38
2.	23.69	23.93	23.93	24.23	24.53
3.	23.84	24.08	24.08	24.38	24.68
4.	24.03	24.27	24.27	24.57	24.87
5.	24.16	24.40	24.40	24.70	25.00
6.	24.26	24.50	24.50	24.80	25.10
7.	24.42	24.66	24.66	24.96	25.26
8.	24.58	24.82	24.82	25.12	25.42
9.	24.92	25.16	25.16	25.46	25.76
10. ..	25.Z4	25.98	25.98	26.28	26.58
11.(b)	29.01	29.27	29.27	29.57	29.87
12. (c)	29.35	29.59	29.59	29.89	30.19
Note: 2012, 2013, 2014
These rates for those years do not reflect future COLA fold-ins.
** $1,000.00 to sign the contract
RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE OPERATION OF JOB GRADING AND
JOB GRADING RATES
1.	As of May 1, 1998 all jobs have been correctly described and assigned to job grades, and wage inequities thereby eliminated. Accordingly, no grievance alleging wage rate inequities will be filed or processed except where a job has substantially changed.
55-
Subsequent jobs whose job descriptions and grading have been approved by the union as hereinafter provided, will be considered as correct, and no grievance alleging wage rate inequities will be filed.
2.	(a) A “change” in a job as referred to herein is one which materially affects its content or requirements. Changes in a job description alone are not adequate to warrant regrading of an existing job;
(b)	When a new job is established or an old job is substantially changed, a fob description for such new or changed job will be assigned to the appropriate job grade, based on comparison with the other jobs in the Plant;
(c)	A copy of the job description of the new or changed job will be sent to the union for approval at the earliest possible date after the job has been created, or the changes to the existing job have been made, together with a notation of the job grade;
(d)	Upon commencing an experimental job, changed job, or a new job, a production employee will remain at the job rate which he regularly received prior to this job, until a job grade rate is assigned to the job. The job will be graded within a three (3) month period where possible;
(e)	If the Union believes that an existing job has changed to an extent sufficient to warrant an adjustment in job grade, it shall notify the Company in writing of its contention and of the adjustment in job grade it contends to be appropriate. Such notice, insofar as possible, shall be given to the Company within fifteen (15) working days after the change in the job is alleged to have occurred;
56-
(f)	Any job description and grade proposed by the Company shall be considered accepted by the Union if no written complaint is filed by the Union within fifteen (15) working days after such job description and grade is submitted to the Union;
(g)	Upon receipt of notice that a difference exists concerning the job description or job grading of a new or substantially changed job, the Company representative will meet with the Union Job Grading Committee at the earliest convenient date to discuss the differences and attempt to make a settlement of these differences. The Company will advise the Union in writing of their decision regarding the said job Description or Job grade;
(h)	If the Company and the Union are unable to reach agreement on the job description or job grading of a job within a reasonable period of time, the difference will be submitted to an impartial arbitrator whose decision will be final and binding on both parties.
3.	The description and grading of jobs will be in compliance with the following rules:
(a)	The description and grading shall be of the job, not of the person performing it;
(b)	Duties not assigned or approved by management shall not be considered;
(c)	The grading shall be based upon average requirements to perform the job satisfactorily, rather than upon exceptions to the average. Performance by specific individuals who are above or below average will not be considered except where classified rates, as in the maintenance departments, apply;
(d)	The grading shall be based upon the performance of a fair day’s work, and employees
-57-.
will be expected to maintain such standards;
(e)	The Job descriptions are to be sufficiently accurate to reveal those features of the job that determine its classification. At the same time, they are not intended to provide a complete listing of every individual feature of the job. If new duties which may be assigned at any time, become a permanent feature of the work, the job shall be reconsidered as provided in Section 2.
4.	Jobs of lead personnel may be graded in accordance with the following procedure:
(a)	A Lead Person is one who:
1.	Instructs	■
2.	Sees that directions of the supervisor are executed.
3.	Co-ordinates,
4.	Checks work,
5.	Reports necessary information, and
6.	Performs necessary manual duties, in a department or major subdivision thereof. Jobs requiring the incumbent to direct a small crew working with him are not classified as lead jobs, but Such direction is included in the regular job description and evaluation.
(b)	Lead Personnel will receive the established rate for the classification of Lead in which they fall, as outlined by job grading programme, with the provision that they will receive a rate a least one grade higher than the highest grade job which they supervise.
5 (a) An employee who has seventy-five (75) days of actual work with the Company within one period of employment is eligible for job grading rates;
-58-
(b)	An employee with seventy-five (75) days of actual work with the Company who maintains seniority privileges after being laid off for lack of work and being reinstated is eligible for job grading when he has accumulated seventy-five (75) days of actual work with the Company, provided that the employee has a minimum of sixty (60) working days since is reinstatement;
(c)	The Company maintains the prerogative to hire semi skilled and skilled employees at rates above the minimum wage rates as outlined in the collective agreement provided these rates are not inconsistent with the rates paid to employees in the same job classification;
(d)	Any employee on job grading, who has lost his seniority with the Company by reason of a lay-off, shall, on rehiring, be treated as a new employee, and must accumulate the necessary service under Clause 5 (a) hereof in order to again become eligible for job grading.
6. (a) Each employee, respectively, shall be paid for all hours worked each day, the rate of the highest job grade at which he works if he spends fifty per centum (50%) or more of his daily working hours, including overtime in that job grade;
(b)	In the event an employee performs work in more than one job grade and therefore works less than" half of his daily working hours at any single rate, he shall be paid an average rate based on the hours worked and the applicable job grade rates;
(c)	Employees who enter the employ of the Company and become eligible for job grading, after job grading is in effect will be paid the rate established for the job grade to which
-59-
they are assigned, or when applicable, in accordance with the arrangements set forth in 6
(a)	and (b) above.
7 (a) All employees, except those employees receiving classified rates, shall receive the appropriate job grade for each job which they perform, with the stipulation that a minimum period of time fifteen (15) minutes must be spent on the job before credit is given.
- Where less than fifteen (15) minutes is spent on the job, the job grade rate of the previous job performed shall apply, or where less than fifteen (15) minutes is spent on the first job upon commencing the shift the employee shall receive the job grade rate of the job following. This clause is subject to the qualifications of Clause 6 (a) and (b);
(b)	(i) Employees regularly engaged on maintenance work shall be classified and receive that classification rate at all times for all work performed unless permanently promoted, transferred or demoted. Maintenance work excludes “minor” maintenance, such as equipment cleaning, lubrication and inspection as performed by non-Maintenance employees. Maintenance employees transferred shall receive the appropriate job grade rates for each job they perform, as defined in Clause 6 .(a) and (b);
(ii)	Notwithstanding the above, high-pressure welders will maintain their “A” rate after fifteen (15) years “A” welders service with the H. J. Heinz Company and 40 years of age, irrespective of the results of their high pressure examination.
(c)	(i) Employees regularly engaged in sterilizing in the Can Filling Department shall be classified and receive that classification rate at all times for all work performed in the Can Filling Department. This rule will not apply if the sterilizer is promoted to a job grade higher than the sterilizer rate;
(d)	Employees in the Production equipment Cleanup Department will have a special
-60-
seniority status similar to the maintenance department regarding layoffs. As long as they are working in the Production Equipment Cleanup Department, they cannot be bumped off their job by higher seniority employees from other departments who are being laid off due to a plant-wide lay-off. This clause will not apply in the event of a permanent layoff in the workforce.
(e)	An employee being trained for a skilled production or maintenance job shall receive the job grade rate below the rate of the job for which he is being trained until he is fully qualified to perform the skilled job after which time he shall receive the job grade rate of the job. It is understood that should the employee fail to qualify for the skilled job within one hundred thirty (130) working days of being trained he shall be returned to his former job. Employees being trained for skilled maintenance jobs will be required to complete maintenance controls cards for this period of time. It shall be the exclusive function of management to determine if an employee is fully qualified to perform the job for which he is trained, subject to the right of appeal by the employee through the grievance procedure.
HEALTH & SAFETY
8 (a) employees who are sent to the first Aid Department or to the doctor because of illness shall be paid the job grade rate they are earning at the time they left their job for the first hour or less away, but shall not be paid for such time in excess of one hour;
(b) Employees required going to the First Aid Department or to the doctor for treatment of an injury received while working shall receive the rate of the job they were performing for time so spent. If an employee, due to injury on the job is unable to return to the job, he shall be paid for the balance of the shift at the rate of the job he was performing when the injury occurred;
-61-
(c) Employees who work on jobs graded on the basis of the employee being required to wear goggles, respirators, or other safety appliances, will be required to wear such equipment when performing the work which required such protection.
COMPANY PAID MEETINGS
9.	Employees will be paid at the grade rate of the job they left, or if commencing a shift for the job they are to perform, for time spent during working hours attending safety meetings, union meetings, and any meetings required by Management.
REPORTING ALLOWANCE AND CALL-IN PAY
10.	An employee who is ordered to report for work and cannot be given work at the time he is told to report shall be paid for such waiting time at the job grade rate at which he last worked on the preceding working day. When such an employee is sent home because work is not available, he shall be paid a minimum of eight (8) hours straight time at the job grade rate at which he last worked the preceding working day.
An employee who did not work the preceding working day shall be paid the job grade rate for the job which he was scheduled to perform. If the employee works for a short period of time before he is sent home, he shall receive the job grade rate for this job performed for the remainder of his call-in pay, or if the employee performs two or more jobs before he is sent home, he shall receive the job grade rate of the last job performed for the remainder of his call-in pay. This call-in pay shall not apply in the event work is not
62-
available because of condition beyond the control of the Company. HOLIDAY
11.	Eligible employees shall receive eight (8) hours holiday allowance for paid holidays not worked, as outlined in the Collective Agreement in effect, at the rate paid those employees that last working day before the holiday.
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR HIGHWAY TRANSPORT DRIVERS
1.	(a) (i) Notwithstanding section 1 (b) hereunder, Highway Transport Drivers shall receive straight time pay for all hours worked in a day.
(ii)	Highway Transport Drivers’ driving time, including all breaks, tire checks, meals, etc., shall be paid on an hourly basis with the hours for each trip determined by the formula established by PCMiler, an industry standard mileage calculator which tracks highway transportation distance from various locations;
(iii)	Time required for unloading, loading and approved delays will be paid at the regular, hourly, highway rate;
(iv)	Highway drivers will be paid the total of three quarters of an hour at the highway rate for checking equipment at the start of the shift and securing equipment at the finish of the shift. Drivers will be issued a check list which must be completed prior to departure and at finish of the shift;
(v)	The daily pay will be adjusted by deducting any time absent from work during the
63-
normal scheduled working hours for personal reasons such as permission for medical and dental appointments and other leaves of absence.
(b)	Highway transport Drivers shall receive time and one-half pay for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any one week period;
(c)	If a night layover becomes necessary due to a breakdown or a waiting period, the driver will not receive consideration for payment as stipulated in Section (a) beyond the time required to assure the safety of the truck and its content;
(d)	If a night’s layover occurs because of a breakdown or a waiting period, the driver will be sent to a hotel at the Company’s expense;
(e)	In all cases proof of the cause of the delay may be required, and if they delay is caused by the driver’s negligence no extra compensation will be paid.
2.	Where Workers’ Compensation Benefits accrue on account of injury this will be in lieu
of payment of wages by the Company.	L
3.	Room and Bed is furnished by the Company for Highway Transport Drivers spending overnight on a trip;
4.	When a Highway Transport Driver is temporarily taken off the highway (to work in the Transportation Department) for medical reasons and family sickness, he will receive the hourly rate of the job he performs;
5.	A Highway Transport Driver will qualify for holiday pay as outlined in the Collective Agreement.
-64-
6 (a) It shall be the duty of the Company to maintain all vehicles in safe operating condition in accordance with the Department of Highway Regulations;
(b) No Highway Transport Driver is authorized to move his truck unless he knows it to be in good operating condition.
7.	Highway Transport Drivers are not permitted to allow anyone other than employees of the employer who are on duty to ride on trucks except by written authorization of the employer.
8.	Highway Transport drivers are responsible for the protection of their cargo at all times.
9.	Highway Transport Drivers shall receive a maximum of two uniforms per year, the said uniforms to be designed by the Company. Replacements for Highway Transport Driver’s uniforms will be made upon return and surrender of a worn out uniform. A uniform under this clause shall consist of one jacket and two pairs of trousers.
10.	Highway Transport Drivers shall be allowed two summer uniforms.
11.	Highway Transport Drivers shall be provided with a winter coat only as required.
12.	Highway Transport Drivers are to be neat and courteous at all times.
13.	Any infringements by Highway Transport Drivers of the above regulations will be subject to disciplinary action.
14.	Highway Transport Drivers will be responsible for any infractions of Municipal and
-65-
Provincial Traffic Laws.
15.	Local drivers shall receive the highway transport rate when they are on highway runs for example to Windsor and Chatham.
16.	The present practice of allocating the local Saturday, Sunday and holiday overtime to the local drivers will continue.
June 25, 2011
Mr. Roger Paquette, President
United Food & Commercial Workers, Local 459
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
-66-
N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Paquette:
RE: TRANSPORTATION DRIVERS TO BE ELIMINATED
Part A the earlier of (1) the attrition of the top 3 seniority Drivers, listed below or (2) by April 15, 2015. The three most senior Drivers listed below will not be required to shunt.
Part “B” the earlier of (1) the attrition of the bottom 3 seniority Drivers, listed below or (2) by April 15, 2012. After completion of Part “B” there shall be no shunt positions.
The Drivers shall be provided a one-time opportunity to transfer to another Department prior to their respective date of position elimination.
Yours truly,
Dino De Simone, Manager of Human Resources H. J. Heinz Company of Canada Ltd.
June 25, 2011
Mr. Roger Paquette, President
United Food & Commercial Workers, Local 459
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
-67-
N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Paquette:
Within 30 days following the ratification of the 2011 Collective Bargaining Agreement, the Company and the Union will mutually assess and develop the most practical means to mitigate and reduce the number of incidences in which less-senior employees are working while more-senior employees are not working (At Home-No Work) when unplanned events occur. In the assessment and development processes, the Union and the Company shall seek input from timekeepers, Union Officials, Supervisors and Managers. Each party will designate the official who will be empowered to accept and agree to the recommendations made.
The Company will be committed to support and implement the mutually developed process. The parties agree to implement the recommended processes that are accepted and agreed to within 30 days of when the recommendations are made.
Yours truly,
Dino De Simone, Manager of Human Resources
H. J. Heinz Company of Canada Ltd.
APPENDIX “B”
MAINTENANCE LINE OPERATORS
The job of Maintenance Line Operator (MLO) is established within the following departments:
-68-
Can Fill
Can Label
General Fill and Cereal
Maintenance Line Operators can be added, on an as required basis up to a maximum of thirteen (13) in the above departments.
In the General Fill Department the present MLO’s will be limited to Line 48 Operations.
In normal maintenance work, capital maintenance work, and PM’s are required, the Maintenance Line Operator will perform this work in his own department.
The Maintenance Line Operator will maintain his classified rate of pay.
APPENDIX “C”
MODIFIED COLA FORMULA
Cost of Living formula modified to one (1) cent for each 3/10 % rise in the CPI for the period May 1st to April 30th.
-69-
Page left blank Page blanche
PENSION AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD.
Leamington, Ontario
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
-and-
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS Affiliated with A.F.L. - C.I.O. and '
The Canadian Labour Congress,
On behalf of its Local 459
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
“Plan” or “Pension Plan” means the “Hourly-rated Employees’ Pension Plan” set forth in Plan “A1” hereto or such amended or substitute plan as the parties may agree upon pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, with the following amendments:
ARTICLE XX
AMOUNT OF RETIREMENT ALLOWANCE UNDER THE PLAN
For retirements occurring on or after January 1, 2001, the minimum Retirement Allowance payable to a member shall be equal to thirty ($30.00) per month multiplied by the number
-71-
of years of his Creditable Service (within the meaning of the Old Plan or this Plan, as applicable).
Effective January 1, 2003: minimum retirement allowance will be $32.00 per month.
The Plan will incorporate the following features:
a)	1-1/2 percent of the average of the best five (5) years of the last ten (10) years.
b)	Fifty percent (50%) spouse benefit - surviving spouse of pensioner to receive fifty percent (50% of the basic pension. In addition to the normal survivor benefit under the present pension plan, fifty percent (50%) of the supplement will be paid to the surviving spouse until such time as the deceased pensioner would have reached age sixty five (65)
c)	Contribution- four percent (4%) of Gross Earnings.
d)	Supplement of $19.00 per month per year of pension service, with a maximum service of thirty one (31) years;
e)	COLA on pensioners receiving this pension - seventy five percent (75%) of consumer price index to a maximum of six percent (6%).
f)	Pensioners will receive either the minimum guarantee or the percentage formula, which ever is greater.
g)	A pension seminar will be provided on a yearly basis for perspective retirees.
The Company will provide revised benefit booklets after ratification of this contract.
-72-
APPENDIX “F
NEW PENSION AGREEMENT FOR NEW EMPLOYEES EFFECTIVE MAY 1st, 2004
In lieu of the Defined Benefit Plan described herein, employees hired on or after May 1st, 2004 will be eligible to participate in a Defined Contribution Pension Plan.
A Summary Plan Description will be provided to eligible employees.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused their names to be subscribed to this agreement by their respective duly authorized representatives this 25th day of June 2011.
FOR THE COMPANY: .
-73
Dino De Simone Ken Campbell Chris Macdonald Larry Ruffner Bob Clifford
FOR THE UNION:
Roger Paquette Robert Crawford Mark Stasso Robert Adams Albert Cappelli Archie Cervini Scott Girardin Robin Matteis Jim Wright
June 25, 2011
Mr. Roger Paquette
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario	-
N8H 3C4	■'
Dear Mr. Paquette:
RE: ELECTRICAL APPRENTICESHIP
The Company wishes to confirm by letter, the following matters with the Union. It is agreed that electricians, who qualify and undertake a Government Apprenticeship Training Programme, will receive the following rate of pay:
1.	A new employee will receive the hiring rate and seventy-five (75) day working rate as
determined by the Company until he is qualified for the Job Grading Programme. At this time, he will receive the rate of an Electrician “C” until he qualifies for the “B” rates as specified below.	•
2.	An employee, who is transferred from elsewhere in the plant and is on the Job Grading Programme, will receive the job grade below the rate of an Electrician “C” for a period of up to one hundred thirty (130) working days after which he will receive the rate of an Electrician “C”.until he qualifies for a “B” rate as specified below. A transferred employee, not on job grading, will receive the hiring and seventy-five (75) working day rates as determined by the Company, provided he works a minimum of one hundred thirty (130) working days before he becomes eligible to be classified as an Electrician “C”.
3.	A “C” Electrician, who has successfully completed his intermediate course and has completed 66 2/3 of his total apprenticeship training hours, is capable of performing “B”
-75-
Electrician’s rate for the remainder of his period of the apprenticeship training programme
4.	Employees will receive subsidization from the Company while absent at the Electrical Apprenticeship School. The method of payment of the subsidy will not interfere with any available Government assistance to the employee. If Government assistance is discontinued, the Company will ensure employees receive their full weekly subsidization.
5.	Employees will be eligible for C.O.L.A. payments for the hours spent at the electrical apprenticeship school.
Yours truly,
Dino De Simone
Manager, Human Resources
H. J. Heinz Company of Canada Ltd.
June 25, 2011
Mr. Roger Paquette President, Local 459
-76-
United Food & Commercial Workers 261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario	-
N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Paquette:	-
The following is in confirmation of the terms of the Company’s Long Term Total Disability Insurance Plan.
1.	A benefit of $850 per month less a deduction of four percent (4%) as the employee’s annual maximum contribution to the pension fund for as long as the employee is totally disabled but not after the normal retirement at age sixty five (65).
2.	The employee’s annual maximum pension contribution will increase as the monthly benefit under the plan increases.
3.	The premiums for the employee’s continuing life insurance coverage will be paid by the Company during the period of long term disability insurance benefit payments.
4.	The employee must submit medical evidence satisfactory to the insurance company for acceptance of his claim and as required during the period of total disability insurance payments.
5.	The long term disability insurance plan is effective after the completion of fifty-two (52) weeks of weekly indemnity payments.
-77-
6.	The employee may also qualify for Canada Pension Plan disability payments. The total benefit of the long term total disability insurance plan plus the Canada Pension Plan disability payments, etc., cannot exceed the 66 2/3% E.l.
7.	Eligibility for benefits is one year seniority prior to the claim for weekly indemnity which qualifies the employee to apply for the long term disability insurance plan.
8.	Employees receiving long term total disability insurance benefits will have normal pension benefits accumulated during the period of long term disability.
9.	If the employee ceases to be totally disabled, the long term total disability insurance will terminate.
10.	If the employee continues to be disabled to the extent he is unable to perform any of the jobs available at the H. J. Heinz Company of Canada Ltd. His long term disability insurance will continue provided he does not accept employment elsewhere.
11.	The Company agrees to qualify employees, whose compensation payments are
discontinued and they are unable to work under the long term total disability plan, with the following provisions:	,
(a)	This will be on a trial basis for the term of the Agreement.
(b)	Any compensation pension received from Worker’s Compensation will be deducted from the long term disability payments.
(c)	The employee must agree to perform any work that is available in order to qualify for
-78-
the long term total disability provisions.
Yours truly,
Dino De Simone
Manager, Human Resources
H. J. Heinz Company of Canada Ltd.
V
-7 9
June 2, 2011
Mr. Roger Paquette, President
United Food & Commercial Workers, Local 459
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario N8H 3C4
RE: Company to Administer Employee Sponsored Dear Mr. Paquette:
During negotiations toward the 2011 Collective Bargaining Agreement, the Union and the Company agreed that the Company shall administer the supplemental LTD benefits that employees have the option to purchase. Employees shall continue to have the same level of LTD benefits as currently provided regardless of whether they do or do not choose to purchase the supplemental benefits.
The following costs are projected estimates of the supplemental LTD benefits and should be viewed as examples only, and are subject to change based on future costs and/or inflation that may be incurred in providing these benefits.
ESTIMATED LTD PREMIUMS AND BENEFITS:
$1,800.00	$95.65/month	$22.077week)
The optional supplemental LTD benefits would be a separate policy paid by the employee with the basic LTD paid by the Company. The portion paid by the employee will be paid via Payroll Deduction, with the Company to administer.
Under current tax law:
When the premiums are paid by the Company the benefits are taxable.
When the premiums are paid by the Employee the benefits are non-taxable.
Difference between current $850.00 per month and the proposed $1,800.00:
$950	$65.73/month	$15.17/week
Note: for both taxable and non-taxable LTD benefit, a person’s LTD benefit cannot exceed replacement ratio of 75% on a taxable basis and 66 2/3 % on a non-taxable basis.
-80-
Sun-Life Financial will allow a 31-day window without evidence if current active employees wish to apply for this coverage they must enroll by July 31, 2011. If employees wish to enroll after the 31-day allowed window they will have to complete a Statement of Health and be approved for this coverage.
Yours truly,
Dino De Simone, Manager of Human Resources H.J. Heinz Company of Canada LP
-81-
June 25, 2011
Mr. Roger Paquette
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H3C4.
Dear Mr. Paquette:
As discussed during negotiations when the day before Christmas and the day before New Year’s Day fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company will have the option of observing these days on some other day during the Christmas holiday period.
This will be implemented on a trial basis for the term of the agreement.
Yours truly,
Dino DeSimone
Manager, Human Resources	.
H. J. Heinz Company of Canada Ltd.
82
June 25, 2011
Mr. Roger Paquette
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Paquette:
RE: Memorandum of Agreement - Building Service
As a result of our recent negotiations, this memo confirms that the Company will restore the Building Service positions within the Plant and Warehouse and reinstate five (5) employees effective February 14, 2005.
Thereafter, for the remaining term of the current collective agreement, Article 21.01 (a), (b), (c) will apply.
Yours truly,	.
Dino De Simone
Manager, Human Resources
H. J. Heinz Company of Canada Ltd.
-83-
June 25, 2011
Mr. Roger Paquette
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Paquette:
Re: Memorandum of Agreement - Training Trust Fund
As a result of our recent negotiations, this memo confirms that the Company will spend at least $200,000 (two hundred thousand dollars) per contract year for training employees represented by the U.F.C.W. Local 459, provided the number of said employees remains the same as On May I, 2007. The amount spent annually for training will be adjusted should the number of represented employees increase or decrease.
Yours truly,
Dino De Simone
Manager, Human Resources
H. J. Heinz Company of Canada Ltd.
-84-
June 25, 2011
Mr. Roger Paquette
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Paquette:
As a result of negotiations leading to this collective agreement, the Company agrees to the following regarding retiree benefits.
Dental:
For current retirees benefits are provided using the 1992 O.D.A. for future retirees only (retirements on or after May 1, 2004), benefits are provided using the 1994 O.D.A.
Vision:	.
For current and future retirees the Company will continue to provide a basic vision care plan; One (1) pair every two (2) years; $175 every two (2) years.
Yours truly,
Dino De Simone Manager, Human Resources H. J. Heinz Company of Canada Ltd.
-85-
Millwright Apprenticeship Program
This letter confirms in writing the assigned plan with regards to the Millwright Apprenticeship Program. Provided the Ministry of Training, Colleges and Universities accepts the apprentice into the program the following will outline the requirements and obligation of both the apprentice and the Company for duration of the program. The program is described as the Industrial Mechanic (Millwright) Apprenticeship.
Responsibilities and Obligations of the Apprentice:
-	Must show proof of successful completion of O.S.S.G.D. (Grade 12)
-	Must have 8,000 hours of relevant experience to complete the program. (Hours to be evaluated by the Board).
-	Must attend an educational facility that has an approved apprenticeship program for the duration of the program.
-	The Apprentice is responsible to register with H.R.D.C. for Employment Insurance.
-	The Apprentice is responsible to find lodging while attending the program..
-	The Apprentice is responsible to study and meet the expectations of the program with a passing grade upon completion.
-86-
Responsibilities and Obligations of the Company:
-	Register the apprentice with the board.
-	Pay the registration fee for each semester.
-	Top up the apprentice’s wages up to 95% while the apprentice collects employment insurance.
-	Reimburse the apprentice for reasonable expenses which include food and lodging provided that the lodging expense is pre-approved by the Company.
-	Pay for a maximum of 3 round trips/semester for traveling allowance.
-	Ensure the apprentice is available for school. (In the event the apprentice is not able to attend a semester, both parties must agree.)
The Board allows the apprentice to write the final exam 3 times. If on the third try the apprentice is unable to attain a passing grade, they will be immediately transferred from maintenance and assigned to a production department.
-87-
APPENDIX “F:
GRADE 1 - RATES $23.78
1.	Air Washer Operator
2.	Caretaker "B”
3.	Case Folder
4.	Hand Packer “B”
5.	Pork Slicer Attendant
6.	Reconditioning Worker
7.	Semi-automatic Packer Operator “B
GRADE 2 ~ RATES $23.93
1.	Case Piler
2.	Container Inspector
3.	Container Inspector - Back Labels
4.	Cooler Worker
5.	General Work “B”
6.	Shroud Remover 7-. Sorter-Inspector
GRADE 3 - RATES
$24.08
1.	Automatic Container Uncaser
2.	Bean and Grain Room Operator
3.	Belt Unloader
4.	Can Line Supplier
5.	Can Opener Operator
6.	Caretaker “A”
7.	Cheese Preparer
8.	Cluster Pack Machine Operator
9.	Container Dumper "A”
10.	Cooler Operator
11.	D & R Clerk
12.	D & R Worker
13.	General Worker “A”
14.	Hand Packer “A”
15.	Kitchen Helper
16.	Material Supplier
17.	Mushroom Line Operator
18.	Pork Slicer Operator
19.	Pulper and Finisher Operator
20.	Retort Basket Loader
21.	Seamer Operator
22.	Semi-Automatic Basket Unloader
23.	Semi-Automatic Packer Operator “A
24.	Tomato Wagon Unloader
25.	Unscrambler Operator
26.	Weigh up Worker "B”
27.	Worcestershire Sauce Operator
GRADE 4 ~ RATES $24.27
1.	Automatic Case Former Operator
2.	Bottle Depalletizer Operator
3.	Cereal Bin Attendant
4.	Chili Sauce Operator
5.	Clean-up Worker “A”
6.	Elevator Operator
7.	Empty Glass Depalletizer Operator
8.	Export Worker
9.	Flume Operator
10.	Fresh Fruit Peeler Operator
11.	Grinder Operator - Str. Meats
12.	Knife Grinder Operator
13.	Mixer Operator
14.	Mobile Sweeper Operator
15.	Semi-Automatic Palletizer Operator
16.	Pasta Batch Mixer
17.	Pulp Mixer Operator
18.	Salt Dispenser
19.	Scalder Operator
20.	Second Process Operator
21.	Sleeving Machine Operator
22.	Steam Peeler Operator
23.	Utility
24.	Vegetable Steam Injector Operator
25.	Vinegar Maker
26.	Weighup Worker “A”
27.	Weight Checker
28.	Ravioli Flour Mixer
29.	Spaghetti Flour Mixer
GRADE 5 ~ RATES $24.40
1.	Automatic Packer and Sealer Operator
2.	Bean Blancher Operator
3.	Can Production Mechanic “C”
4.	Car Loader - Manual
5.	Checker - Mixed Pickup
6.	Checker — Trucks
7.	Controls Electrician “C”
8.	Cook ‘‘B;< -
9.	Filling Line operator
10.	Filter Operator - Fruit Juices
11.	Fork Lift Operator
12.	General Filling Mechanic “C”
13.	Groundskeeper - Waste Disposal
14.	Maintenance Mechanic "C”
15.	Mixed Pickup Order Worker
16.	Mustard Maker
17.	Pallet Car Loader
18.	Automatic Palletizer Equipment Operator
19.	Utility - P.E.C.
20.	Vegetable Maintenance Mechanic “C”
21.	Welder “C”
22.	Ravioli Press Operator
23.	Spaghetti Filler Operator
24.	Supply Order Worker
25.	Spice Worker
26.	Labeler Operator
2 7. Recycle Room Attendant
28.	Bean Process Operator
29.	DRP Operator
GRADE 6 - RATES $24.50
1.	Battery Charger
2.	Cold Storage Attendant
4.	Filler Operator - Bulk Paste
5.	Meat Room Attendant
6.	Paste Top Man Tank Loader
7.	Pouch Filler Operator
8.	Pump Operator - Paste Storage
9.	Tank Sterilizer
10-Tank Truck Loader 11 .Vinegar Worker “B”
12.	Labe! Order Supplier
13.	Cryovac Operator
H.	Spice Worker
15.Single Serve Operator
16.Factory Material Control Clerk
GRADE 7 ~ RATES $24.66
I.	Cereal Filling Line Operator
2.	Cold Fill Ketchup Line Operator
3.	Cook “A”
4.	DCS Operator
5.	DCS Field Operator
6.	Drum Dryer Operator
7.	Paste Storage Clerk
8.	Product Sterilizer
9.	Stockkeeper “B” - Central Stores
10.	Vinegar Worker "A”
11.	Rotator Operator
12.	Cleanup Worker - Circulation
13.	Miscellaneous Shipper
GRADE 8 ~ RATES
$24.82
1.	Can Production Mechanic “B”
2.	Controls Electrician “B”
3.	General Filling Mechanic “B”
4.	Highway Transport Driver
5.	Lead “B”
6.	Machinist “B”
7.	Maintenance Mechanic “B”
8.	Material Handling Equipment Mechanic "B”
9.	Vegetable Maintenance Mechanic “B”
10.	Vegetable Receiver
11.	Welder “B”
12.	Safety Training Coordinator
13.	Maintenance Line Operator
14.	Local Driver
GRADE 9 - RATES $25.16
1.	Lead “A”
2.	Stockkeeper “A” - Central Stores
3.	Set-Up Utility
-94
GRADE 10 - RATES
$25.98
1. Stockroom Lead
GRADE 11 - RATES $29.27
1.	Can Production Mechanic “A”
2.	Controls/Electrician “A”
3.	General Filling Mechanic “A”
4.	Machinist “A”
5.	Maintenance Mechanic “A”
6.	Material Handling Equipment Mechanic "A”
7.	Vegetable Maintenance Mechanic “A”
8.	Welder "A”
9.	Maintenance Operator - Flex Pack
GRADE 12 - RATES $29.59
1. Maintenance Lead "A”
-95-