H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 459
A.P.L. C.I.O. C.L.C.
FACTORY OFFICE AND QUALITY CONTROL UNIT

30,1998
DEC - * 1994

THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into at Leamington, Ontario as of the 27th_____day of September. 1994.
BETWEEN
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD (hereinafter referred lo as the "Company")
OFTHE FIRST PART
-and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIALWORKERS LOCAL 459 A.F.L. C.I.O. C.L.C.
(hereinafter referredto as the "Union")
OFTHE SECOND PART
ticle
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
INDEX
Page#
Purpose.....................................1
Recognition.................................1
Union Security.............................2
Wages.......................................3
Shift Premiums............................  4
Hours of Work...............................5
Holidays....................................7
Reporting Allowance and Call-In Pay.........9
Seniority.................................  9
Vacations..............................    16
Management Functions.......................19
No-Strike Provision........................20
Settlement of Grievances.................  20
Arbitration................................24
Leave of Absence for Union Representatives 2S
Sick and Welfare Plan......................25
Uniforms.................................. 27
Bulletin Boards............................27
Rest Periods...............................27
20
21
22
Safety and Health......
General................
Termination and Renewal,
Appendix "A'...........
Appendix "B”...........
Appendix "C”
ADoendlx "D”
27
27 26
28 34 3E 36
PURPOSE
article I
1.01	Jtisthe purpose of this Agree merit to maintain and promote harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to set forth hours of work, rates of pay ancf other conditions of erriDloyment to provide an amicable method of settling any
differenceor grievance which may arise relating to conditions of employment.
RECOGNITION
ARTICLE II
2.01	The Company recognl2es the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative lorall employees in the factory of the Company at Leamington, save and except assistant department heads, foreladies, those above the rank of assistant department head and forelady, secretary to the Manager of the Quality Control Department, personsemployed inthe Medical Department and Human Resources Department, senior labour analyst, maintenance planners, personsemployed regularly fortwenty-fourhours a week or less, and students employed lor the school vacation periods.
2.02	The term "employee" when used in this Agreement refers only to persons employed by the Company within the bargaining unit described in this article and who have acquired seniority asset out in Sub-Artide9.02,
2.03	The term "probationary employee" when used in this Agreement refersonlyto persons who have not completedthe pro. bationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who have not acquired seniority as set out In Sub-Article 9.02.
2.04	r le only provisions of this Agreement which apply tc probationary employees are those provisions which are specifically applicable to probationary employees and such provisions shall onlv
apply to probationaryemployees to the extent specifically provided in such provisions.
2.05	Whenever the singular or masculine are used In this Agreement, the same shall be construed as meaningthe plural or the feminine where the context or the parties hereto so require.
1
ARTICLE III
UNION SECURITY
3.01	All employees who are now members of the Union or who may later become members, shall remain members in good standing during the lifetime of this agreement as a condition olem-ployment.
3.02	All employees, who may hereafter become employees In h e bargaining unit, shall Immediately, upon expiration of sixty-five (65) consecutive working days with trie Company, or alter sixty-five (65) intermittent working days within a period of five (5) consecutive months, butwlthout necessarily having worked in each of such months, become and remain members in good standing of the union during the lifetime of this agreement as a condition of employment.
3.03	The Company will furnish to the Union, every month, a list ofemployees with mors than fifty (50) and less than fifty-five (55) consecutive working days with the Company.
3.04	The Company will deduct union dues from the pay of each memberofthe Unionwhen so authorized by such members in writing on a form acceptable to the Company. The Company will a/so deduct the equivalent of union dues from the pay of each e m-ployee upon the completion of the probationary period. Such deduction shall be made monthly from the employee'sflrst pay each calendar month and the amounts so deductedshall be transmitted to the Financial Secretary of the Unionwithin twelve (12) days following each deduction. Upon written notice from the Financial Secretary of the union, tne company agrees to deduct any assessment which may be levied from time to time.
3,06	(a) Six months advance notice of permanentplant closure in order to set up an Adjustment Committee.
3.05	(b) The Company will provide the Union three (3) months advance notice of partial plant closure in order to set up an adjustment committee. This shall apply only to a permanent layoff of fifty (50) or more seniority employees. This section shall not apply to seasonal operations.
3.05	(c) The Company agrees to pay 2 weeks peryear of severance to the unionized layoffs announced in January, (200 people).
ARTICLE IV
WAGES
4.01	Wages will be paid Inaccordance with the Wage Schedule of Appendix'‘A”.
4.02	Promotions: When an employee is promoted to a classification In a higher grade, he will move to tne next higher rate within his new grade with a minimum Increase of $15.00 per week, effective at the time of his promotion. However, this rate :annot exceed the maximum rate of the job on the wage schedule.
4.03	A cost of living allowance will be paid In accordancewlth AppendixT",
4.04	(a) When an employee temporarily replaces another em-
ployee In a higher grade during absence for vacations, Illness, etc., no adjustment Is made unless the replacement period extends for a period of one week In which case, after completing such week, the employee's rate will be adjusted to the next higher rate to his present rate within his new job grade with a minimum increase of $15.00 per week, retroactive to the commencement of such Job; however, this rate cannot exceed the maximum rate of the job on the wage schedule. For weeks in which there is only one paid holiday during the replacement, the said holidav will count as a dav worked in regard to rate adjustment. On i	if thi
ment period, the employee reverts to his regular rate.
(b) When an employee has once qualified for the job rate by progressing through the salary progression schedule he/sne does not have to requalify if placed on the same job within a two year period.
4.05	The rules and regulations under the Job Grading Plan appear as Appendix "A" hereto and shall be considered as part of this Agreement.
4.06	Job titles and grades applicable to each group shall be available In the respective groups.
4.07	All employees requiredto serve on a jury shall, for the period of such service, be compensatedfor the difference between the dally amount received by them as jurors and eight (8) hours
3
pay at the rate paid the employee the last working day before serving jury duty.
4.08	An employee will be granted a leave of absence from work as required of three days in the case of absence due to death of the employee's spouse, child, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, member of his step family, grandparent, grandparent-in-law and grandchild. Such employee will be paid eight (8) hours pay per day at the rate he received on the last day worked before such leave for each work day (Monday through Friday) that falls within the immediate three (3) calendar day period following death of the employee's relative as specified above. In no case will an employee be paid for more than three (3) work days nor will an employee be paid for Saturday or Sunday under any circumstances. If the Employee cannot attend the funeral, only one work day will be granted provided satisfactory evidence of death Is furnished the Company. An employee will be granted on the same basis a leave of absence from work as required of one day In the case of absence due to death of the employee's daughter-inlaw, son-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law,
4.09	Employeesshell receive their pay Thursdays.
4.10	It Is agreed that any employee who has been In the employ of the Company for a period of sixty-five (65) days of actual work within a period of one year and who has been laid all and rehlred within one year from the date of lay-off will receive, on rehiring, the rale of pay which was being received by him at the time of lay-off. together with any increases agreed to during the period of lay-o rovided that, In any case, the rate of pay to be re :eived by such an employee, upon rehlring, shall not exceed the rate then belnj Id to employees who have completed 65 days of actual work
ARTICLE V
SHIFT PREMIUMS
5.01	(a) A shift premium equal to 3 percent of the base rate (Factory Grade!) shall be paid for all hours worked after 3:00 p.m. on a regular afternoon (second) shift and a shift premium equal to 4.5 percent of the base rate (Factory Grade I) for all hours worked prior to 8:00 a.m. on a regular night (third) shift. (The shift premium to be rounded to the closest cent.) To qualify for a shift premium on the night (third) shift, an employee must work the majority of his
4
standard eight hours on that shift, prior to 8:00 a.m. To qualify for a full shift premium on the afternoon (second) shift or night (third) shift, an amnlnunn most iwnrlf fjfh# ngr rant nr rnnrn hijstandard elaht hours on his rescoctlvfi shift
(b)	Notwithstanding the above, the language will be inoperative until May 1,1998, Present amm mta will remain1 mtil then with no increase in premiums.
HOURS. OF WORK
ARTICLE Vt
6.01	(a) Hours of work Shall be scheduled by the Company in accordance with its requirements.
6.01	(b) ItisagreedandunderstoodthatMcindaycommencesat 12:00 a.m. (Sunday midnight).
6.02	Time and one-half shall be paid'for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours Per day or forty (40) hours per week, Monday through Friday. Only overtime authorized by supervision will be paid. The overtime rate will be determined by dividing the weekly salary by forty. Overtime will be calculated and paid to the closest quarter (1/4) of an hour.
6.03	Time and one-half shall be paid for all hours worked on Saturday and double time for ail hours worked on Sundav.
6.04	(a) (I) When the Company decides that overtime work is
necessary, throughout the period of Monday to Friday, inclusive, it will be first assigned to employees on the same shift, who are performing the work required and then by shift seniority within the existing overtimegrouparrangement, providedthey are ready and available forsucn work.
(ji) When overtime work Is required on Saturday, Sundayorapald holiday, it will be allocated by seniority on a shift basis within theexisting overtime group arrangement, provided the employees concerned have (he necessary skill, merit and ability to perform the work required. Shills will be determined by the following guidelines:
5
(i)	The employees shaJJ be .	on
the shift on which he has spent the majority of his time during the week, Monday to Friday, preceding the Saturday and Sunday overtime. Example: An employee who'works 3 days on days and 2 on nights would be considered for the day shift overtime on Saturday and Sunday, even though he was not on days on the Friday preceding the overtime.
;ii; in a week in which a paid holiday occurs, the holiday shall be considered as a day shift, provided the employee does not work a dilferent shift on the holiday.
(iii)	ifan employee is absent due to Illness, he shall be considered as workingonthe shift he was scheduled far the day he took sick.
(iv)	Employees hading an individual day or night shift or by the week, shall be considered ns working on thei-nrinlna! scheduled shift
(v)	Tomato Seasonal Continental Work Week 8 week duration (only)
All departments (ail units)
5x6 hour shifts starting any day of the week/5 days on, 2 days oil.
All hours in excess ol 8 hours per shift (40 hours per week) will be paid at one and one-halftimes the regular rate.
Employees requiredto work on the 6th or 7th day will be paid at a rate of one and one-half times for all hours worked.
The number of times the affected employees will be expected to work Saturday/Sunday at regular rate will be limited to 5 times out of the 8 week period. This is unlikely to impact more than 200 employees.
6
During the season, it is agreed that the 6th and 7th consecutive work day shall be treated as a Saturday and Sunday with respect to the hours of work and overtime provision in the Collective Agreement with the exception that the 7th day will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked, (rather than double time).
T!	i' ^/Management Co n itt s v II meet to
df	> a derailed scneauie for the affected
or it s, to be posted by June 1,1994.
b) When the Company decides that overtime work is necessary on Sunday, during the tomato season and pickle season, it will be allocated as outlined in 6.04 (a) above provided the assignment of overtime does not interfere with normal shift rotation.
6.05	In any week in which a paid holiday as provided by this Agreement falls, ,he <'«mppn^ shal' pay time ana one-half for ail
hours worked in C ( Of e ill : rat I niirl nor Haw nr fhirfu.tyyo (32)
per Week.	-	■	■
6.06	Ifriot enough employees haveagreedto come in to work from the exlBllng overtime group then the unit seniority list will be used. In descending order ofsenlority, until enough people are found, subject to skill, merit and ability.
HOLIDAYS
ARTICLE VII
7.01	(a) Employees other than probationaryanployees who work on the day upon which any of the following holidays is observed, namely:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half ft addition to the holiday allowance of eight (8) paragraph 7.02. These payments shall be co of the rate applicable to the job performed.
til h s worked Ir urs as provided Ir rule n the basis
7
(b)	An additional day as determined by the Company will be granted as a recognizednoliday during the Christmas season.
(c)	A holiday alloWihe® 0t ©I9hl (8) flours will be paid torthe Iasi working da prior to Christmas Day and last working day prior to New Year’s daysub|ect to the conditions sot out in paragraphs
7.02	and 7.03.
(d)	Eachof the holidays will be observed Mondaythrough Friday.
7.02	Employees other than probationary employees not re-quiredto work on such recognized holidays shall receives holiday allowance of eight (8) hours at the ratepaidthe employee the last working day before tne holiday, provided he works his full scheduled working day immediately preceding and his full scheduled working day immediately following such holiday unless absent for any of the following reasons:
(I)	personal illness (prove i by a r's certificate acceptable to the llomp ny);
(II)	quarantined by order of a qualified health authority; (Ifi) death in the immediate family;
(iv) compulsory Court attendance as a witness or on jury duty;
(v)	ifabsent up to five (5) working days when written leave-of-absence therefore hasoeen granted by the employee's Department Head
(vi)	absent on bona fide Union business up to fen (10) working days.
7.03	In order to qualify lorpay lorthe holidays as above, the employee's scheduled working day herein before referred to must fall within three working days before and within three working days after the sard holiday (or within six working days before and within six working days after the said holiday wnere paragraph 7,02 (I) applies) and must be
8
ARTICLE VIH
REPORTING ALLOWANCE AND. CALL-IN PAY
B.01 An employee Wn is scheduled or notified to report for work and who does report for work on time shall be entitled to a minimum of lour hours straight-time pay, unlesspreviouslynotlfied by the Company not lo report for work, provided that no reporting allowance shall be paid for any period of time worked by an em. ployee within his regularly scheduled shill. Providedfurther, that If requested bythe Company, the employee shall performa minimum of four hours of such available work as the Company may asslgft, and further, provided, that the Company's obligation to grant minimum reporting pay as above provided shall nofapply where failure to furnish worn is due to causes beyondthe Company's control.
8.0; An employee who is called and returns to work after he has completed his scheduled shift and has left the premises of the Company, shall be paid, regardless of the amount nf ilmn wnrimH not less than four (4) hours straight time pay.
SENIORITY
ARTICLE IX
9.01	Seniority means length of continuous service with the Company. It entitles the employee to preference in cases of decrease or increase of the working force.
9.02	An employee shall acquire seniority after completing the probationaryperiod of sixty-five (65) consecutive working days with the Company orafter s/xty-five (65) intermittent working days within a period of five (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each Of such monthsand when so acquired, the employee'sseniority commences from the date first hired.
9.03	Seniority will be applied separately in the foil fl grou subject to such change in the future as the Interests of I busii s may req lire and as agreed to by the Union:
1,	Quality Control
2.	Factoiy Offices
9.04	(a) Anew employee's seniority appliesinthegroupto which he is assigned at the end of his probationary periodand continues
9
in that group until the employee is transferred to another group;
(b)	An emplo ee who has completed his probationary period may file a grievance claiming ha has bean improperly classified.
9.05	The Company will post in suitable locations, a seniority l st for ;h group, showing the name and seniority of each employee i will revise the list every six (6) months as required. The Local will be provided with copies of the seniority lists.
9.06	Ta) The Company recognizes the importance of seniority as a lactor to be considered along with skill, ability and requirements of the job in respect of transfers, demotions, promotions, temporary layoffs and recalls to work thereafter within each separate group and when skill, ability and requirements of (he job are relatively equalbetween employees, then group seniority is recognized as the prevailing factor In the makfng of a selection;
(b)	In the application of paragraph 9.06 (a) the time spent in filling a temporary vacancy shall not result in an employee being given preference over employees who normally perform the job.
9.07	(a) Inthe case of layoffsother than temporary orfer a temporary shutdown, the following procedure shall apply;
(i) Probationaryemployeesshallbe laid off first;
(li) Thereafter, employees shall be laid off on the basis of the employee's chronological lime of hiring, provided that the employee has the necessary skill, ability and requirements of the job to perform (he required work. However, this paragraph does not apply to the technical employees of the groups which shall oe governed by the provisions of paragraphs 9.03 and 9.06;
(iii)	I n the application of Section (ii) above, the redundant employee shallexercise their departmentaland group seniority and then unit-wide seniority, provided ha is able to perform the work. The employees that are dis-placedbya redundant employee, will follow the reguar bumping process.
(pj Employeas shall be recalled in the inverse order of 10
being laid off, provided that the employee has the necessary skill, ability and requirements of the job to perform the required work.
(c)	Annual Plant Shutdowns
2	weeks in July
2	weeks in December
Statutory Holidays will be included in the 2 week shutdown In December.
Postedby Februarylst indicatingwhatdepartmentswill be shutdown.
If after February 1st changes are required that necessitate departments working, volunteers will be sought by Department seniority and then by Plant seniority
Vacation must betaken underthe following formula:
3	weeks vacation - must use2 weeks withinthe manda-
lory shutdown
4	weeks or more - must use 3 weeks withinthe manda-
tory shutdown
There will be no plant shutdown in July of 1994.
9.08	in the case of temporary layoffs of not longer than five (5) working days, seniority shall be applied by group seniority, subject to the provisions of paragraph 9.06, However, if a temporary layoff occurs due to an emergency, breakdown or a condition beyond the control of the Companv, seniority will not apply on any basis for a period of within
9.09	fa) The lerm "vacancy'1 for the purposesof this Article shall be defined as an opening in the group seniority list where the number of persons requiredby the Companyexceedsthe numberemployed therein, due to an employee's transfer, death, retirement, termination of employment or an opening of a new group, and the duration of which is expected to exceed 65 working days. The vacancy will be posted lorthree working days throughout the factory. Applications for transferto a posted vacancy may be made in writing by employees throughout the factory who have more than two years' seniority.
11
(b)	In making a transfer, seniority will govern where skill, merit and ability are comparatively equal, it being understood that the Company will not be obligated to select an applicant if the applicant Is not able to meet the normal requirements of the job. Nothing herein contained will prevent the Company from filling such vacancy with a candidate from outside the baraalnlng unit if none of the applicants from within the unit possess the necessary skill, merit and ability.
(c)	The lob vacated by an employee transferred under these provisions will be posted but any subsequent vacancy resulting therein, will not be subjectto posting.
(d)	An employee who fails to fill the requirements of a posted \ cy, at the option of the Company, will be transferred back to t oup he worked in Immediately preceding the transfer if he
woufd have continued to work in that group except lor his selection to the posted vacancy, cr to some other group, Such employee may notapply for the same posted vacancy for a period of twelve months.
(a)	In the case of arbitration, not morathan one employee may claim an Improper selection tor the Same posted vacancy.
9.10	(a) An employee who is transferred from one group to another group as a result of his own request, acquires no group seniority in that new arouD for a period of six months except over employees brougtiiiintothe group alter the date of his transfar, but If retainedin that group after a periodof six months, the employee's total seniority shall be transferred to the new group.
(b)	Where the transfer of a person In the employ of the Company from outside the bargaining unit into the bargaining unit is mutually agreed upon between the Company and Union, such person (employee) acquires no seniority within the bargaining unit for a period of one year except over employees brought into the bargaining unit after the date of his/her transfer, but it retained In the bargaining unit after a period of one year, the employee's bargaining unit seniority will be based upon his/her total service with the Company.
rc) In the application of (b) above, an employee who fallsto fill the requirements of the position within one year from transfer
12
into the bargaining unit, at the option of the Company, will be transferred back to the group he/she worked In immediately preceding the transfer if he/sne would have otherwise continued to work in that group except for his/her transfer, or to some other group wlthlr his/her original bargaining unit for placement, if any, on the basis o skill, ability nd ini ritv
(d)	In the application of fb) above, for the purpose of lay offs within the period of one year following the employee's transfer Into the bargaining unit from outside the bargaining unit, at the option of the Company, will be transferred back to the group he/she worked In immediately preceding the transfer If he/she would have otherwise continued to work in that group except for his/her transfer, or to some other group within his/her original bargaining unit for pinna, ment, if any, on the basis of skill, abliih and temerity, '
(e)	The Company and the Union agree, where practi n Company will try and place employees absent on sick leave	n
pensation, on Jobs which they are capable of performing. I s saty, In the assignment of this work, the employees must agree tc waive their seniority rights. This procedure Will uu implemented On a tri il basli for th 31 rm of thi agreement.
9.11(a)	\	mj	o	v is trar arr	ft m one groi lean
oth srgro	if	b;	:he	!<	3	iy requires nos	snioritylntl em g oup
for i peri	x	0	Ihr	s	it is, except over	employees brought Into
the grouf	t	:«r Ihr	d	y his transfer hu	jf retained in that group
after a period of three months, his group: inlority, based upon his total service with the Company, applies li such new group. However, an employee, who Is transferred by the Company to a new group as a result of a reduction In the number of employees in his former group due to a technological change, shall acquire seniority in the new group as of date of transfer.
(! ) In the application of the above, an emplovee who Is rendered' redundant or displaced from his job as a res u ft of technological change shall exercise their departmental and group seniority and then unit-wide seniority, provided he is able to perform the work. The employees that are displaced by a redundant employee will follow the regular bumping procedure.
(c)	Notwithstanding the above displacement procedures, the
Employer and the Union, at any lime, can formulate special measures to modify the above displacement procedures lo lake into
13
account the placement or
desire of the parties to minimize the impact of dls-■ to deal with particular operational considerations.
9.12	When an employee, alter being transferred is laid off, such layoff shall not interfere with the accumulation of seniority in the new group. When recalled, such an employee will have preference over employees with less group seniority to come back into the group he was working at the time of the layoff. When recalled, the accumulation of seniority will continue until one year after the
e of the first transfer, or three months, whichever Is applicable.
9.13	An employee transferred to any position within the Company excluded from the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement and subsequently transferred back to a position in the bargaining
,	„	i a position li	„	„
unit within a period of one year, shall retain hisfull seniority within the bargaining unitand shall be considered to have been continuously employed therein, Any other employee transferred from a position within the Company outside the bargaining unit to a position covered by this Aareement, shall acquire seniority in the bargaining unit as of (he of his transfer.
9.14	In the event of a temporary shutdown of one or more groups, group seniority will apply to tne employees Involvedwitn respect to layoffs of two weeks duration cr less, provided that this may only he applied once per calendar year to tne same employees. Itany ofthe paidholldays underparagraph7,01 occur during such a shutdown, employees who are laid off under this provision shad' receive holiday allowance In accordancewith paragraph7,02, provided they work the full scheduled wor king day with in three working days immediately preceding and within three working days immediately following the shutdown period. Employees who continue to work during a shutdown shall duality for holiday allowance In accordancewith paragraphs7.02
9.15	Leave of absence, if granted In writing by the Company will not affect an employee’s seniority rating. An employee may, under sneciel circumstances, receive a maximum of three weeks leave ofabsence through his Department Head
9.16	An employee loses seniorily when the employee:
Sal quits or resigns:
b)	Is discharged/or cause;
ic) In caseof anemployeewithlessthantwoyeahsenlor-ity, is laid off for lack of work /ora continuous period in
14
excess o) the length of his seniority Wth the Company. In case of employees with seniority of two years or more is laid off lor lack of work, for a continuous period in excessof two years:
(d)	fails to report for work when called without a valid rea. son: or
(e)	fails to report for work within seventy-two (72) hours after being sent a written notice tw registered mall addressed to the employee's last address known to the Company, advising that all seniority rights shall terminate If the employee falls to report Wllnln seventy-two (72)hoursof such notice, unlessthe employee obtains a written extension of the time within which to report within seventy-two (72) hoursof such notice.
9.17	(a) A pregnant employee may apply for and take a leave of absence at the end of five months of pregnancy and shall be entitled to be re-employed with full seniority rights provided she reports for work within two months after the blrtri. unless she produces a medical certificate satislactory to the Company showing that she is unable to do so.
(b)	Inthe case of adoptionof a pro-schoolchild, the mother
or father may apply tor leave of absence of three (3)monthseffec-tive the date of receipt of the child and shall be entitled to be reemployed with full seniority rights at the termination of such leave.
9.18	(a) The local union president, chief steward and chairperson shall have the privilege of working on the day shift.
(b) The first vice-president,assistantchief steward ah® p&h son replacing the chairperson shall have the privilege of working on the day shift If the president, chief steward, or chairperson is respectively absent for extended periodsottlme such as vacations, conventions, etc.
(c)	The Chief Steward or his/her replacement will be paid at a rate cf pay determined by his/her classificationor years of service.
9.19	An employee who presents a medical certificate showing that he has been III or displaced by accident shall maintain his seniority rights during the period of such illness.
15
9.20	The Company will endeavorto place an employee having longandfaithfulservicewho has become unableto handle his job in anotherjob which he Is competentto perform.
ARTICLE X
VACATIONS
10,01	Each regular employee shall be entitled to a vacation, its length to be determined as follows:
(a)	II employed less than ten (10) months during the previous fiscal year, one (1) day of vacation during the second fiscal year for each lull calendar month of service in
(he previous fiscal year;
(b)	If employed ten (10) months or more but less than one full fiscal year during the previous fiscal year, two (2) weeks of vacation in the second fiscal year;
(c)	During the fiscal year in which the employee celebrates hissecond(2nd}andeachsubsequentannlversarydate of service, each regularemployee shall receive two (2) weeks of vacation with pay;
(d)	During the fiscal yearin which the employee celebrates his llftn (5th) and each subsequent anniversary date ot service, each regularemplovee shall receive three (3) weeks of vacation with pay;
(e)	Duringthe fiscal year in which the employee celebrates his tenth (1 Oth) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regularemployee shall receive four (4) weeks of vacation with pay;
(f)	Duringthe fiscal year In which the employee celebrates hfs eighteenth (18lh) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regularemployeeshallreceivefive
(5)	weeksof vacationwilh pay;
(g)	Duringthe fiscalyear in which the employee celebrates his twenty-fifth (25th) andeach subsequentanniversary date of service, each reaular employee shall receive six
(6)	weeks of Vacation with pay:'
16
10.02	Five (5) working daysshall constitute one week.
10.03	Vacation with pay shall be calculated as follows:
(a)	Employ#9*tnUl!edtotwoweeksorless vacation-4 percent of earnings lorthe preceding fiscal year;
(b)	Employeesentltled to three weeks vacation. 6 percent ofearningsforthe preceding fiscal year;
(c)	Employees entitled to four weeks vacation - 8 percent of
earnings for the preceding fiscal year;
(d)	Employees entitled to five weeks vacation -10 percent ofearningsforthe preceding fiscal year:
(e)	Employees entitled to six weeks vacation. 12 percent of earnings forthe precedingfiscai year;
(f)	Vacation pay shall be calculated as follows;
1.	If tho employee has worked 500 or more hours during the precedingfiscai year, 2 percent of earnings for such precMlingflscal year for each week of vacation entitlement, or the equivalent of the employee's regularhourly wage rate forthe 40-hourweek, whichever is greater;
2.	Ifthe employee hasworked less than 500 hours during the precedingfiscai year, 2 percent of the employee's earnings for such preceding fiscal year for each week of vacation entitfemenl;
3.	Incalculating thetlme worked, absencewhile receiving Workers' Compensation, weekly Indemnity or casual union business, paid holidays and vacations will ba credited as time worked on the basis of eight (8) hours for each day the employee would otherwise have regularly worked, provided that the employee hasworked during such preceding fiscal year
10.04	(a) When a paid holiday occurs while an employee is on vacation, he will be paid holiday pay in additionto regularvacafion pay.
17
(bj (i; Employees will have the option of taking an additional day off on either the Friday preceding or the Monday following their vacation if a Daid holiday occurs during their regular vacation period. The employees must notify supervision priortothecommencement of their vacation.
(ii)	Employeeswhose vacationmoniesare considerably reduced because of absencethe preceding year, may electto take a reduced vacation time during the current year equivalent to the amount of their vacation monies. The amount of vacation time to be taken is to be reviewed bythe HumanResoutces Department, subject to legal requirements.
10.05	Employees entitled to a vacation will take it when convenient to the Company. Exceptions to this policy will only begranted under special circumstances and must be approved by the VicePresident concerned.
10.06	When practicable, vacations will be scheduled as requested by the employees in the employee seniority order except that efficient operation of the Company shall be the first consideration and the Company shall have the right to assign vacations on that basis.
10.07	Aneliglble employee upon being laidoff indefinitely without having received the paid vacation provided under this Article, will receive vacation pay accumulated to the employee's credit at the end of the previous fiscal year, unless the employee notifies the Company in writing at the time ot layoff that he prefers to postpone such paid vacation until later in the fiscal year in which he is laid off. Vacation pay will be made by cheque.
10.08	Upon termination of employment, an employee will receive vacation pay accumulatedto his credit.
18
ABIICLE XI
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
11.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(j)	Maintainorder, discipline and efficiency;
(ii) Hire, classify, d irect and lay- off;
(ill) Discharge, t ransfer, promote, demote, suspend or otherwise discipline employees subjecttome rightof the employee concerned to lodge a grievance as herein provided;
(Iv) Make and alter from time lo time rules and regula. tions to be observed by the employees providedthey are not inconsistentwfihthe provisions ofthisAgree-ment:
(v) Generallyto managethe industrialenterprisein which the Company Is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the right to plan opera, tions, to determineservlces to beperformedendthe methods, procedures and equipment in connection therewith, the engineering and designing of its products,the controlof materialsand pans lobe Incorporated in the products produced, and the extension. (Imitations, curtailment or cessationof operations.
11.02	Itis understoodthat the causesfor ...........,...t
may summarily suspend employees (provided that the suspension will not preclude the Company from discharging the employee) include the following:
(I) intoxication;
(ii)	Disorderly conduct;
(iii)	insubordination;
(iv)	Unauthorizedabsenteeism;
19
(v)	Neglect of duty:
[vi)	Carelessnessendangeringthe Safety of others:
(wi) Theft or destruction of Company property.
11.03	The termination of any employee without seniority may be lor any reason as determined by the Company,
11.04	The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
11.05	(a) No employee shall be discharged or disciplined except for just cause. The Union agrees that It will uphold the rules and regulations of the Company in regard to punctual and steady attendance proper notification in case ol absence and conduct on the job.
(bi The Company agrees that where meetings are heldwith employe rs concerning their work or conduct, which Implements any form of official reprimand, discipline ordischarge, a Shop Steward or Union Representative shall leave the meeting if requested to do so by the employee.
ARTICLE XII
12.01	The Union agrees to accept and abide by all the terms and conditions of this Agreement and during its term will not permit its members to engage in any walk-out, sit-down, slow-down or other interference with or Interruption of work and that it will not call, countenance or otherwise encourage any walk-out or strike. Any employee violating this provision shall be subject to disciplinary action as determined by the Company, The Company agrees to accept and abide by all the terms and conditions ot this Agreement and during its term will not loch out the employees,
ARTICLE XifJ
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
13.01	The Unionwill appoint, from among employees who have completedtheir probationary period, andthe Company will recognize 5 Stewards and a Committee comprisedot notmore than three
20
(3), one of whom shall be the Chairman ofthe Committee.
13.02	(a) Each Steward or Committeeman shall be permitted to function as such only as provided herein. It is understood that the Stewards and Committeemen have their regular work to perform on behalf of the Company and will sper i only such time during working hours as is necessary to service grievances as provided under the grievance procedure, if it is necessary to service a grievance as authorized by.this Agreement, they will not leave their regular work without first obtaining the permission of their Department Head. It is also understood that a Steward shall not enter another Department without first obtaining the permission of the Department Head of such Department and notifying him as to the nature of the arievance and the personnel involved. The Steward upon leaving-a Department after servicing a grievance, will notify the Department Head thereof, and upon resuming his regular work, after servicing a grievance In his own or another Department will report to his own Department Head. Whenever, in tne opinion of the Department Head concerned, more than a reasonable period of time has been taken by a Steward in servicing a grievance, the Steward's Department Head may decline to approve payment to such Steward for such excess time.
(b) All grievances shall be dealt with during working hours where possible without loss of time or pay to the parties involved.
13.03	When an employee is being disciplined for any reason, he may elect, at hisdiscretionto have a Union representativepresent during any interview.
13.04	The Local Shall notifythe Company in writing from time to time of the names ofthe Committeemen and Stewards.
13.05	The Company wilt supply the Chairmanofthe Committee with a list ofthe Department Headsand Assistant Department Heads excluded from the provisions of this Agreement as aforesaid and will notify the chairman of any changes thereto.
13.06	It is understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given his Department Head an opportunity to adjust his complaint which shall be presented by the employee, who shall be accompanied by the Group Steward, to his Department Head within
three full working days after the circumstances giving rise lo the complaint have originated or occurred. Ifan employee has an
21
unsettled complaint, it may be taken up as a grievance within three full working daysatler receivingthe DepartmentHeadsdecisionin the following manner and sequence;
Step No. 1:
Between the employee, who may be accompanied tw theGroupSteward, and hisDeparlment Head. The grievance shall be presented In writing and the decision of the Department Head shall be given In writing within two full working days following ores-entation of the grievance;
Falling settlement, then:
Step No. 2:
The matter may be presented in writing within two working days to the Human Resources Department and the Human ResourcesDepartment's writtendeclslon given within not more than three working days foliowing receipt of the written grievance at this step; Failing settlement, then:
Step No. 3:
Within five full working days following the decision under Step 2, the grievance shall be submitted as part of the agenda for a meeting between the Company’s representatives and members of the Union Committee, not exceeding five in number. An International Representatives of the Union may be present at such meeting. The decision of the Company's representative shall be given in writing within five full working days of the said meeting.
13.07	Failing settlement of any difference between the parties
under Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure arisina from the Interpretation, application, administration or alleged	f thli
Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is aibi trable, such difference or question may be taken to in ar provided In Article XIV. If no written request for arbitration Is received within ten working days after the final decision under the Grievance Procedure Is given, it shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned
13.08	Any difference arising directly between the Company and
the Union may be submitted by either party at Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure and time limits provided thereby shall appropriately apply to both parties. ’	'	"
22
13.09	The aggrieved employee may be present during each step of the Grievance Procedure and at Arbitration.
13.10	When a group of employees has a complaint or grievance it shall first be taken up iiJnzder Step No. 2 and they may be represented by the appropriate Steward and not more than two employees.
13.11	Any adjustment arising under a settlement through the Grievance Procedure or under a decision of an Arbitration Board Shall not be made retroactive prior to the date the matter is first presented underthe Grievance Procedure, except as I o improper classification or bookkeepingerror involving an employee's earnings.
13.12	Alldecisionsarrivedat, between representatives of the Company and the representativesofthe Union, at any step of the written Grievance Procedure shallbefinalandbindingonthe Company, the Union and the employee or employees concerned. The Company shall submit a written reply to each written grievance.
13.13	Failure of the Union or employees to comrilv with the time limits in Steps 1, 2 and 3 above, shall be considered as acceptance of the last answer given, thus disposing of the grievance. Farlure of the Company to comply with the time limits provided in Steps 1,2 and 3 above shall be considered a refusal of the request Involved In the grievance and immediate appeal to the next step In the p rcedure may be taken. When either party desires additional time 'ithin which to properly process a grievance, additional time
wlthi mnsomhle limits shall ha nranten hv thn nthar aarh, unnn
written request.
13.14	At any step in this grievance procedure, the Executive Board of the Local Union shall have the final authority in respect to any aggrieved employee covered by this Agreement, to decline to process a grievance, complaint, difficulty or dispute further if, in the judgement of the Executive Board, such grievance or dispute lacks merit or lacks justification under the terms of this Agreement, or has been adjusted or justified under the terms of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Executive Board. Once the aggrieved employee has been notified either by their Steward or Ihe Union Business Representative that their grievance is being dropped because of lack of merit, the aggrieved employee has fifteen calendar days to appeal that decision by sending a letter to the Union ’’resident requesting to appear before the Union Executive Board
23
13.15	Notwithstanding anything contained i m tins Agreement;
the provisionsof ihls Article ana the provisions of Article XIV of this Agreement do not apply to probationary employees, nor shall the provisions of this Article or the provisions of Article XIV of this Agreement be available to the Union on behalf of any probationary employee.
ARTICLE XIV
ARBITRATION
14.01	When either party requests that any matter be submitted to arbitration as herein before provided, It shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, and at the same time nominate an arbitrator, within five days thereafter the other i s rty shall lomlr ite an arbitrator; provided, however, that if sue! i arty fail; to nc tinale an arbitrator as herein required the Minis e r of Labe r lor le Province ol Ontario shall have power to effect such an appointment upon the application thereto by the party invoking arbitration procedure. The two arbitrators snail, within live days of the appointment ol the latter ol them, attempt to select by agreement a Chairman of the Arbitration Board. If thev are unable to aoree noon such a Chairman within such a
period of five days, they shall then request the Labour Arbitration Commission to assist (hem in selecting an impartial Chairman, provided that the Chairman shall be selected Irom other than the Civil Service and shall be chosen having regard to his impartiality, his trustifications in interpreting collective bargaining agreements and tils familiarity with Industrial relations.
14.02	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been Involved In an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
14,03	Nomanermaybe submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous Steps of the Grievance Procedure.
14.04	The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part ot this Agreement!
14.05	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of the majority, or failing that, the Chairman of such Board, will be final and binding upon
the parties hereto and the employee or employeesconcerned.
24
,14.06 Each of the parties hereto will bea, the expens > of tf arbitrator representing it, and the parties will jointly bear the e: pens© of the Chairman of ihe Arbitration BoarI.
ARTICLE XV
LEAVE QF ABSENCE FOR UNION REPRESENTATIVES
15.01	(a) A leave of absence with seniority maintained will be
granted for a period of two years to two employees (only one per epartment) at any time accepting a full-time position with the Union subject tc renewal UDor mutual anranmnnt of tha rnmnanu
Anri I Inin	*
For the interpretation of this clause for leave of absence foi Union representatives means that time spent on leave of absence is accumulated for seniority purposes only, but not for fringe i anafitc e.g, pension service, etc., unless SDecificailv anmed unnn
(b) Reasonable time off with seniority maintained shall be granted to Union representatives to attend bona fide Union business, provided competent replacements are available for those employees desiring to be away from work. Every consideration will be given p 1i™" n1«'w ,n '* r'ssib1" fo him to attend Union
ARTICLE XVI
SICK. AND WELFARE PLAN
16.01	The Company agreesto assume the cost of the following Sick and Welfare Plans with respectto each employee while in the active employment of the Companyandwho is eligible lorben-eflts thereunder:
(a)	Ontario Health Insurance Pian:
(b)	(ij A Weekly Indemnity Plan providing lor a maximum
coverage of fifty-two weeks at a weekly indemnity allowance equivalent to the sixty-six and two-thirds (66-2(3) percent Unemployment Insurance Commission Pian for	qualify thereunder:
(ii) Foremployeeswith lessthan oneyear'sservicewith the Company, benefits provided will be the length of Company Service:
25
Weekly Indemnity payments will continue cnly while, employees are on the active payroll:
active payroll:
(c)	(i) A regular employee who loses time through an injury, sickness or disease, where Workers' Compensation benefits are not payable, and on producing a medical certificate, shall be paid his regular wages until he is eligible for his welfare Indemnity;
(ii) Where Workers' i lompensation benefits	> i t
account of injury, this will be In lieu of |	it f
wages by the Cor ipany;
All regularamployees IM be entitled to Weekly Indemnity benefits immediately upon re-lnstatement on the payrollfollowlng a layoff;
(e)	Supplementary Hospitalization Plan lo be continued;
(t) The Thirty-Five (35) C * it «luc ible Drug Life time prescription sed from 30 days to 3 months.
of dispensing fee on all prescriptions,
(d>
(9)
The present Supplementary Health Care Benefit Plan will remain in effect;
(h) The Company will provide a Dental Plan: 12 month check-ups
(I) ThejDresent Long Term Total Disability Plan will remain
(j)	Out-of-Provlnce/Country Emergency Treatment;
(k)	The Company will provide a basic Vision Care Plan;
(l)	Physiotherapy treatment covering visits to licensed clinics.
16.02	The Plan documents for all sick and welfare benefits providedunder the Agreement are an integral part of the Collective Agreement and are hereby incorporated by referencelnto it. The company wilt provide the Union with complete and current documents of all benefit plans.
26
ARTICLE XVII
17.01	will be issued according to Company/Government regulations.
BULLETIN BOARDS
ARTICLE XVIII
18 01 The Company agrees to maintain bulletin boards on which the Union may post notices of the lime and place of meetings, recreations, social affairs and elections and names ol officers or accredited representatives and such other notices as may be approved by the Company. The Union shall deliver one copy of each such notice to the Human Resources Department one-naif hour prior to posting.
REST PERIODS
ARTICLE XIX
19.01	Employees shall be entitled to two (2) restperiodsoften (10) minutes each foreach eight (S) hourday.
SAFETY AND HEALTH
ARTICLE XX
20.01	The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safetyand healthof the employees in the Plant during their working hours.
20. c A Union representative will be appointed by the Union Jo the Company’s Safety Committee to attend safety meetings. The Company agrees to notify this Union Safety Representative of any lost time accidents in the bargaining unit.
20.03	The Company will pay fifty (50) dollars percontractyear
to provide safety shoes to all employees who are requiredto wear them.
GENERAL
ARTICLE XXI
21.01	The Chief Steward will be furnished with a copy of any employee reportglven to an employee.
27
22.01	This Agreement shall remain In effort until frprll 30th. 1998 and shall continue In force thereafter from year to yearunless dither party shall have given sixty (60) days written notice to the otheroflts desire to terminate the same, I n the event of such notice of amendment or termination by either party, each party shall submit to'he other party, within fifteen (15) days thereafter Its pro-posedamendments, if any, jo this Agreement and the parties agree to meet to commence negotiationswith respect to such amendments within not laterthan a further periodof fifteen (15) days.
EXECUTED at LEAMINGTON, Ontario this 2Z1h day of September. 1994,
FOR
H, J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD
Les Pakens----------------
Jim Whlttal_______________
Barb Denotter-------------
Frank Findlow-------------
FOR:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS ■
A.F.L. C.I.O. C.L.C. LOCAL 459
John Unrau________________
Lorraine Cowan____________
Dave Masters______________
Gene Pollard--------------
Bryan Neath --------------
28
APPENDIX “A"
SALARY PROGRESSION SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE MAY 1.1994
After 66
6 Mos, 9 Mos. 12 Mos.
Grade I 4OO.00 Grade II 407.00 Grade III 414.00 Grade IV 421.00 Grade V 428.00 Grade VI 437.00 GradeVII 450.00 Grade VIII 463.00
636,22
643.28
650.37
657.48
665.93
661.00	678.67
665.00	678,00
671.00	685.00
692.81
717.30
29
APPENDIX “A"
RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE OPERATION OFTHE JOB GRADING AND JOB CLASSIFICATION PROGRAM
1,	All job grades and classifications effective October 3, 1994,
have been correctly described and assigned to Job grades and wag© Inequities thereby eliminated, Accordingly, no grievance alleging wage rate inequities will be filed or processed except where a job has substantially changed. Subsequent Jobs, whose Job descriptions and aradlna have been approved bv the Union as hereinafter provided, will	no grievance alleging
wage rate inequities will be filed.
2.	(a) A "change” In a job as referred to herein Is one which
materially affects Its contents or requirements. Changes in a Job description alone are not adequate to warrant regrading of an existing Job;
(b)	When a new job is established or an old Job is substantially changed, a job description for such new or changed job will be assigned to the appropriate Job grade, based on comparison with the other jobs in the respective wage schedule which applies;
(c)	A copy ol the job description of the new or changed job will be sent to the Union for approval at the earliest possible date after the job has been created, or the changes to the nxistinn Inh have been made, toaether with a notation of the grade:
(d)	Upon commencing an experimental job, changed Job, or a new job, an employee will remain at the job classification rate which he regularly received prior to this job, until a job grade rati Is e si id to the job. The job will be graded within i h le (3) month period where possible;
(e)	If the Unionbelleves that an existing job haschanged to an extentsufficient to warrant an adjustment in job grade,
30
(g>
it shall notify the Company in writing of its contention and ot the adjustment in job grade it contends to be appropriate, Such notice, insofar as possible, shall be given to the Comoanv within fifteen (151 working davs after the	job is
Any job description and grade proposed by the Company shall be considered accepted by the Union if no written comDiaint is filed bv the Union within fifteen (151
working after such description and submitted to the Union:
Upon receipt of notice that a difference exists concerning the job description or job grading of a new or sub-staniiallychanged Job, the Company representativewill meet with the Union Job Grading Committee to discuss the difference and attempt to make a settlement of these differences. The Company will advise the Union, in writing, of their decision reaardina the said Job Description or Job Grade;
(h) (I) Ifthe company and Union are unable to reach agreement on the fob description or job grading of a job classification within a reasonable period of time, the difference will be submitted bv either party to an Impartial Arbitrator:
jii] The Arbitrator shall be ch< se 1 by ag cement of the parties within ten (10) wo <ii g a ws following their disagreement failing which th > Ar ntrator will be appointed by the Minister of Labour oi the Province of Ontario upon the written application of either party;
(Hi} No person may be appointed as the Arbitrator who hasbBen involved Inanattemptto negotiate or settle the matters to be decided by the Arbitrator:
(iv)	The Arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of these Rulesand Regulations, norto alter, modify or amend any of them;
(v)	The proceedings of the Arbitrator will be expedited by the parties and the decision of the Arbitrator will
31
be final and binding on the parties hereto and the employee or employees concerned:
(vi)	The parties will jointly bear the expenses of the Arbitrator,
3.	The description and grading of jobs will be in compliance with the following rules;
(a)	The description and grading shall be of the job. notthe person performing it;
(b) Duties not assigned or approved by Management Shall not be considered:
(c)	The grading shall be basedupon average requirements to perform the job satisfactorily rather than upon exceptions to the average;
(d)	The grading shall be based upon the performance of a fair day's work, endemployeeswill be expected to maintain such standards;
(e)	The job descriptions are to be sufficiently accurate to revealthose features of the jobthat determine itsdassi-ficatlon, At the same time, they are not intendedto ro
vide a complete listing of every ______________________
job. If new duties, which maybe assigned at any time, become a permanent feature of the work, the job shall be reconsidered as provided in Section 2
4.	The factors used to determine Job Classilicalionsare as follows;
i. Job Knowledge;
II. EducationandTraining;
ili. Complexity;
iv.	Responsibilityfor Judgement;
v.	Responsibility for Accuracy;
vi.	Responsibility for ConfidentialMatters;
vll. Responsibility lor interpersonal Skills;
vlil. Working Conditions;
lx. Physical Effort.
32
5.	(a) An employee will be classified and assigned to the
65 working-day rate in the appropriate job grade upon obtaining seniority;
(b)	An employee who maintains seniority privileges after being laid off for lack of work and being reinstated, is eligible for Job Grading, He will be placed on the salary schedule according to nis length of service on the job in the appropriate job grade and classification subject to Clause 6;
(c)	The Company maintains the prerogative to hire technical and skilled employees at rates above the minimum wage rates as outlined in the salary grid in the collective agreement, provided these rates are not inconsistent with rates paid to employees In the same job classification;
(d)	An employee, who has lost his seniority with the Company by reason of a lay-off shall, on rehirlng, be treated as a new employee and must accumulate the necessary service under Clause 5 (a) hereof In order to again become eligible for job grading,
6.	Each employee respectively shall be classified and paid for all hours worked each day the appropriate rate of the wage schedule for the job grade in which he Is classified.
7.	Employees should be classified and receive their classification rate at all times for all work performed unless permanently promoted, transferred or demoted. Employees transferred shall receive the appropriate job classification rate as defined in Clause
8.	Employees who work on Jobs graded on the basis of the
employee being required to wear safety equipment will be required to wear such equipment when performing the work which requites such protection.
@.	Employees will be paid at their job classification rate for
the time spent during working hours attending meetings approved by Management.
10, (a) The wage rate of an employee whose job grade has been lowered as a result of the introduction of the job
33
grading programwill beconsidersd "red-circled" and will not be reduced as long as he remains on the same job;
(m A ''red-circled" employee who movesto another job Will v receivethe gradeandwage rateofthe new job classification he performs.
AEEENPIX'IB"
Modified Cola Formula
Cost of living formula modifiedto 1 cant lor each 3/10% rise in the CPI for the period May 1st to April 30th, payable onfy when productivity meets the following targets;
FY95-	34 dozen #2 tins per man hours
FY96-	36 dozen #2 tins per man hours
FY97-	37 dozen#2 tins per man hours
FY98 -	38 dozen #2 tins per man hours
Amount of payout will be folded Into wages effective May 1st of each year.
Retroactive COLA will be paid by separate cheque for ail hours worked between May 1stto April 30th, to be paid in June of each year.
Inadditionto the COLA formula If productivityexceedsthe annual adjusted levels, employees will receive a lump sum payout by separate cheque to be paid in June of each year.
For FY95 the following formula wilt apply:
34	dozen #2 tins per man hours* $0,0 per hour worked
35	dozen #2 tins per man hours* $0.10 per hourworked
36	dozen#2tlns per man hours* $0.20 per hourworked
37	dozen #2 tins per man hours* $0.30 per hour worked
38	dozen U2 tins per man hours* $0.40 perhourworked
39	dozen #2 tins per man hours* |0,SO perhourworked
40	dozen #2 tins per man hours =$0.60 perhourworked
Any additionah pointlmprovement will produce an additional $0.10 34
At the beginningofeach additional fiscal year, the Union/Manage-ment Committee will post the annual adjusted levels based on the factory budget.
APPENDIX -C"
EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTION COMTIN11AT1DN
SiJAHANIEE
Heinz Canada shall remain a year round operation and expects that regularemploymentat Leamingtonshall not decline belowthe levels specified below, except for reductions resultingfrom:
*	BKWESr*
*	oss of sales
*	Attrition (death, dismissal, quits, retirements)
Forth > j post o this gui ar tee, the factory employment level is defined as 600, plant and salaried employees minus subsequent attrition resulting from all reasons unrelated to transfer of product
Employees hired after May 1st, 1994, shall not be considered in determining whether the following guarantee shall go into affect.
The Company agrees that the following product lines will remain in Leamington for the durationofthls Collective Agreement,
tomato Juic< bottled and tin t wet baby foods
beans
pasta
tomato soup dry baby cereal barbecue sauce
* proposed ■
' ill sauce
*	as sauce
‘ na sauce
*	sloppy ]oe sauce
*	tomato paste (tin)
*	vinegar
*	mustard
*	vol/pac
U.S. toddler baby food
If the permanent level of employment is reduced belowthe 600 plant and salaried employees minus subsequent attrition resulting rom ail reasons unrelated to transfer ol product with no reasonable expectation of replacement, such employment remainsbelow the level specified above lor a continuous six (6) month period
35
resultingin a breach of this guarantee, the followingprovlsions will go into effect:
’ employees will from the lime of the original breach receive an additional $0.75 per hour wage increase.
*	Severance shall be increased I o two (2) weeks per year
of continuous service for those affected.
aepemqixj'k:
PENSION AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA-LTD Leamington, Ontario
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
-and-
UN1TED FOOD AND COM IRCIALM Affiliated with A.F.L. C.I.O. and the Canadian Labour Congress, nn hehalf ot its Local 459
(hereinaftercalled the "Union")
(a) "Plan" or ‘‘Pension Plan" means the "Hourly-rated Employees Pension Plan” set forth in Plan "A1” hereto or such amended oi substitute plan as the parties may agree upon pursuant to the prc visions of this Agreement, with the following amendments:
The first paragraph of Section 2 isamendedto read as follows;
2) For retirements on or after January 1.1981, the mini mum RetirementAllowance payable to a Member shallbe equal to
------------------equi
feWc^fwilfiln^^meanlng of^^fifl^nor^i^^fei^as
applicable).
36
The Plan will Incorporate the following features:
a)	1-1/2 per cent of the average of the best five years of the last ten years.
b)	50 per cent spouse benefit - surviving spouse of pensionerto receive 50 percent of the bask pension.
c)	Contribution. 4 per cent of Gross Earnings
d)	Supplement of $19.00 per month per year of pension service, with a maximum service oi 30 years.
e)	COLA on pensioners receiving this pension-75 percent of consumerprlce index lo a maximum of 6 percent,
f)	Per ioners will receive either the minimum guarantee or t s percentage formula, whichever is greater.
II I : !Wf	tne parties hereto have caused their
in i to t subs to th s Agreement by their respective duty " ' '	tnie 27th of September 1994.
FOR THE COMPANY
Lss Dakens
Jim Whlttal
BaifcJ2snottai t Bid! v
FOR THE UNION;
l i Tony Dama tllr
Uf lb
37
April 30, 1994
Mr, Gene Collard
President. Local 459
UnitedFood & CommercialWorkers
261 Erie St, S.
Leamington, Ontario
N8H 3C4
DearMr. Collard
The following is Inconfirmationofthe terms of the Company's long
term total disability Insurance plan.
1.	A benefit of $650 par month lass a deduction of 4% as the employee's anmral maximum contributionto the pension fund for as long as the employee istotally disabled but not after the normal retlremen'tat age 65.
2.	The employee’s annual maximum pension contribution will Increase as the monthly benefit under the plan Increases.
3.	The premiums for the amployee's continuing life insurance coverage will be paid by fne company during the period of long term total disability insurance benefit payments.
4.	The employee must submit medical evidence satisfactory to the insurance company tor acceptance of his claim ana as required during the period Of total disability Insurance payments.
5.	The long term total disability insuranceplan Isaffectiveaffer the completion of 52 weeks of weekly Indemnity payments.
6.	The employee may also qualify for Canada Pension Plan disability payments. The total benefit of the long term total disability Insurance plan plus the Canada Pension Plan disability payments, etc. cannot exceed the 66 2/3% U.I.C.
7.	Eligibility for benefits is one year seniority priorto the claim for weekly indemnity which qualifies the employes to apply forthe longterm total disability insurance pian.
8.	Employees receiving long term total disability insurance benefits will have normal pension benefits accumulated during
38
the period of long term total disability
9.	If the employee ceases to be totally disabled, the long term total disability insurance will terminate.
10.	If the employee continues to be disabled to the extent he is unable to perform any ofthe jobs available atthe H. J, Heinz Company of Canada Ltd, his long term disability Insurance will continue provided he does not accept employment elsewhere.
11.	The Company agrees to qualifyemployees, whose compensation paymentsare discontinued and tnev are unable to work underthe long term total disability plan, with the following provisions.
(a)	This will be on a trial basis for the term of the Agreement.
(b)	Any compensation pension received fromWorkers'Com-pensationwill be deducted from the longterm total disability payments.
;c’ The employee must agree to perform any work that is available In order to qualify for the long term total disability provisions
Yours truly.
T. JamesWhittal Department Manager industrial Relations
39
April 30, 1994
Mr, GeneCollard
President. Local 459
United Food &CommercialWorkers
261 Erie St. S.
Leamington. Ontario N9H 3C4
Dear Mr. Collard:
As discussed during negotiations when the day before Christmas and the day before New Year's Day fallson a Saturday or Sunday, the Companywlll have the optiondf observingthese days on some otherday during the Christmas holiday period.
This will be implementedon a trial basis lor the term of the agreement.
Yours truly,
T. JamesWhtttat Department Manager Industrial Relations
40
April 30,1994
Mr, Gene Collard
President. Local 459
United Food & CommercialWorkers
261 Erie St, S,
Leamington, Ontario N8H 3C4
HE: Training Trust Fund
C< ii ig the recent Memorandum of iettlemeni t e veen the Company and the Union as agreed upon, the Company wishes to fund ^ ^ etler' *^e ^0^0w'n9 matter concerning the training trust
1.	A fund of $200,000 per contract year will be spent by the Company for training.
2.	The Company will have the option of not spending the committed monies ifthe government passes legislation requiring the Company to contribute to a government fund.
The Company agreesto renewtheduly 16,1882, letter of Understanding. Asanalterrtatlve, the Unlon/Management Com.
mlttee will review the option of dDHing W£>aJoint e.ducatiqn training antitrust fund with the condition of securing addi-
tional funds from the Federaland/or Provincial governments. Yours truly,
T, James Whlttat Department Manager IndustrialRelations
41
April 30,1994
Mr. Gene Collard
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie St. S.
Leamington, Ontario N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Collard
RF: $3.8 Million Cost Savina Items
determined by a membership vote)-
Yours truly,
T, James Whlttal Department Manager Industrial Relations
42
April 30, 1994
Mr. Gene Col lard
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie St. S.
Leamington, Ontario N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Collard:
RE: Unlon/Management Committee
The parttesagree to ensure the bettermentof the Leamington Plant (employmentlevels and year-round operations), ajoint Union/Man-agement Committee will be establlshedto revlewall aspects of the operation.
Yours truly,
T. James Whittal Department Manager Industrial Relations
43