COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD
AND
UNITED FC >1 AND COMMERCIAL ,VORt
LOCAL459
A.F.L. C.1.0. C.L.C.
OFFICE & TECHNICAL UNIT
Expires April 30, 2004
'!HISS AGREEMENT made and entered into at
Leamington, Ontario as of the 2nc1 day of___June. 2001
BETWEEN:
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
-and-
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 459 A.F.L. C.I.O. C.L.C.
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
2
INDEX
Article	Page#
1.	Purpose ............................ 1
2	..	Recognition......................... 1
3	..	Union Security.......................3
4	..	Wages................................4
4.07	Jury Duty........................... 6
4.08	Bereavement Pay......................6
5	..	Shift Premiums...................... 7
6	..	Hours of Work........................8
7	..	Holiday............................. 11
8	..	ReportingAllowance and Call-In Pay .. 13
9	..	Seniority........................... 14
10	.	Vacations...........................25
11	.	Management Rights...................30
12	.	Non-Strike Provision................32
13	.	Grievance Procedure.................32
14	.	Arbitration.........................38
15	.	Leave ofAbsence for (Union Rep.) .. . 40
16	.	Sick and Welfare Plan...............40
17	.	Uniforms............................ 43
18	.	Bulletin Boards..................... 43
19	.	Rest Periods........................43
20	.	Health and Safety...................44
21	.	General............................. 44
22	.	Termination and Renewal............. 45
Appendix "A" (Rates).......... 47
Job Grading...................50
Appendix "B" (Uniforms)......56
Appendix "C" (C.O.L.A)........56
Appendix "D" (Pensions)......S6
Letters ...................... 59
3
ARIICLEJ

1.01	It is the purpose of this Agreement to maintain and promote harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to set forth hours of work, rates of pay and other conditions of employment and to provide an amicable method of settling any difference or grievance which may arise relating to conditions of employment.
1.02	The parties agree to ensure the betterment of the Leamington Plant (empbyment levels and year-round operations), a joint Union/Management Committee will be established to review all aspects of the operation.
ARTICLE II
RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive Collective Bargaining Representative for all office, clerical and technical employees at its Leamington operations, save and except Assistant Department Heads, those abeve the rank of Assistant Department Head, Buyers, secretaries to each of the General Manager, Leamington Factory Operations Manager, Leamington Financial Operations, and the Manager of Quality Control, persons employed in the Human Resources Department, the Medical Department, the Salary Payroll Department and the Agricultural Department, the Senior Labour Analyst, Food Chemist, Recipe Pr^dures Technologist, Research Nutritionist, Programmers and Systems Analysts, persons employed in the factory, persons regularly empbyed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours p:rweek and students employed during the school vacation period. Any co-op student to work one (1) term only.
2.02	The term "employee" when in this Agreement refers only to persons employed by the Company within the bargaining unit described in this article and who have acquired seniority as set out in Sub-Article 9.02.
2.03	The term "probationary employee"when used in this Agreement refers only to persons who have not completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who have not acquired seniority as set out in sub-Article9.02.
2.04	The only provisions of this Agreement which apply to probationary empbyees are those provisions which are specifically applicable to probationary empbyees and such provisions shall only apply to probationary employee to the extent specifically provided in such provisions.
2.05 Whenever the singular or masculine are used in this Agreement, the cama shall be construed as meaning the plural er the feminine where the context or the
4
parties hereto so require.
ABIiCLEJIll.
UNION SECl JRITY
3.01	All employees who are now members of the Union or who later become members, shall remain members in good standing during the lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
3.02	All employees, who hereafter become employees in the bargaining unit, shall immediately, upon expiration of sixty (60) consecutive working days with the Company, or after sixty (60) intermittent working days within a period of five (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each of such months, ^become and remain members in gecol standing of the Union during the lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
3.03	The Company will furnish to the Union, every month, a list of employees with more than fifty (50) and less than fifty-five (55) consecutive working days with the Company.
3.M The Company will deduct union dues from the pay of each member of the Union when so authorized by such members in writing a, a form acoeptable to the Company. The Company will also deduct the equivalent of union dues from the pay of each employee upon the completion of the probationary period. Such deduction shall be made monthly from the employee's first pay each calendar month and the amounts so deducted shall be transmitted to the Financial Secretary of the Unionwithin twelve (12) days following each deduction. Upon written notice from the FinancialSecretary of the Union, the Company agrees to deduct any assessment which may be levied from time to time.
3.05	(a) Six (6) months advance notice of permanent plant closure in order to set up an Adjustment Committee.
(b)	The Company will providethe Union three (3) months advance notice of partial plant Closure in order to set up an adjustment committee. This shall apply only to a permanent layoff of fifty (50) or more seniority employees. This section shall not apply to seasonal operations.
5
ARTICLED
WAGES
4.01 (a)	Wages will be paid in accordance with the Wage Schedule ofAppendix
"A".
(b)	COLA payments will be based on fiscal year end versus April 30111 calender
period end.
4.02	Promotions: When an employee is promoted to a classification in a higher grade,
he will move to the next higher rate within his	grade with a minimum increase
of $15. 00 per week, effective at the time of his promotion. However, this rate cannot excaed the maximum rate of the job on the wage schedule.
4.03	A cost of living allowancewill be paid in accordancewith Appendix "0".
4.04	(a) When an employee temporarily replaces another employee in a higher
grade during absence for vacations, illness, etc., no adjustment is made unless the replacement period extends for a period of one (1) day in which case, after completing such day, the employee's rate will be adjusted to the next higher rate to his present rate within his new job grade with a minimum increase of $15.00 per week, retroactive to the commencement of such job; however, this rate cannot excaed the maximum rate of the job on the wage schedule.
(b)	When an employee has onca qualified for the job rate by progressing
through the salary progression schedule he/she does not have to requalify if placed on the same job within a two year period.
4.05	The rules and regulations under the Job Grading Plan appear as Appendix "A" hereto and shall be considered as part of thisAgreement.
4.06	Job titles and grades applicable to each group shall be available in the respective groups.
JURYPUJY
4.07	All employees required to serve on a jury shall for the period of such service, be compensated for the difference between the daily amount received by them as jurors and seven and one-half (7%) hours at the rate paid the employee the last working day before serving jury duty.
BER^^MENT PAY
4.08	An employee will be granted a leave of absence from work as required of three (3) days in the case of absence due to death of the employee's speuse, child, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, member of his step
6
family, grandparent, grandparent-in-law, and grandchild. Such employeewill be paid seven and one-half (7%) hours per day at the rate he received on the last day worked before such leave for each work day (Monday through Friday)that falls within the immediate three (3)calendar day period following death of the employee's relative as s^^^ above. In no case will an employee be paid for more than three (3)work days nor will an employee be paid for Saturday or Sunday under any circumstances. if the employee cannot attend the funeral, only one (1) work day will be granted provided satisfactory evidence of death is furnished the Company. An employee will be granted on the same basis a leave of absence from work as required of one (1) day in case of absence due to death of the employee’s daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
4.09	Employees shall receive their pay Thursdays.
4.10	It is agreed that any employee who has been in the employ of the company for a
period of sixty(6O) days of actual work within a period fl one (1) year and who has been laid off and rehired within one (1) year from the date of lay-off will receive, on rehiring, the rate of pay which was being received by him at the time of lay-off, together with any increases agreed to during the period of lay-off. Provided that, in any case, the rate of pay to be received such an employee, upon rehiring, shall not exceed the rate then being paid to employees who have completed	(60) days of actual work.
4.11	Office and Technical Chairperson will be given copies of currentjob descriptions for jobs in their respective units.
SHIFT PREMIUMS
S.01	(a) A shift premium of forty-nine (49) cents shall be paid for all hours worked
after 3:00 p.m. on a regular aftemoon (second) shift and a shift premium of seventyone(71) cents for all hours worked prior to 8:00 a.m. on a regular night (third) shift. To qualify for a shift premium on the night (third) shift, an employee must work the majority of his standard seven and one half (7 %)hours on that stilt,, prior to 8:00 a.m. To qualify for a full shift premium on the afternoon (^second) shift or night (third) shift, an employee must work 50 percent or more of his standard eight hours on his respective shift. On the second year of contract an increase of five (5) cents per shift premium will	e^ffect, resulting In a shift premium offlrty.four (54) cents
for the afternoon (second) shift and seventysix (76) cents for the night (third) shift. On the third (3"' year of contract an increase of five (5) cents per shift premium will ttake effect, resulting In a shift premium of flrty-nine (59) cents for the afternoon (second) shift and eightyone (81) cents for the night (third) shift.
7
ARTICLE YI HOURS OF WORK
e.01 (a) Hours of work shall be scheduled by the Company in accordance with its requirements.
(b)	It is agreed and understood that Monday oommences at 12:00 a.m.
(Sunday midnight).
6.02	(a) Time and one-half shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of seven and one-half {7°/o) hours par day or thirty-seven and one-half (37%) hours per week, Monday through Friday. Only overtime authorized by supervision will be paid. The overtime rate will be determined by dividing the weekly salary by thirty-seven and one-half (37%) hours. Overtime will be calculated and paid to the closest quarter (1/4) of an hour.
(b)	Tomato Seasonal Continental Work Week
Eight (8) week duration (only)
Al departments (all units)
5 x 7Y2 hour shifts starting any day of the week/5 days on,	(2) days off.
All hours in excess of seven and one half (7%) hours per shift (37% hours per week) will be paid at one and one-half (1%) times the regular rate.
Employees required to work on the sixth (6th) or seventh (7th) day will be paid at a rate of one and one-half (1%) times for all hours worked.
The number of times the affected employees will be expected to work Saturday/Sunday at regular rate will' be limited to five (5) times out of the eight (8) \^k period. This is unlikely to impact more than 200 employees.
During the season, it is agreed that the sixth (6th) and seventh (7th) consecutive work day shall be treated as a Saturday and Sunday with respect to the hours of work and overtime provision in the Collective Agreement with the exception that the seventh (7th) day will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked, (rather than double time)
Applies to Probationary and Seasonal employees only.
6.03	Time and one-half shall be paid for all hours worked on Saturday and double time for all hours worked on Sunday.
8
6.04	When the Company decides that overtime work is necessary, throughout the period of Monday to Friday, inclusive, it will be first assigned to employees on the sameshift who are performingthe work requiredand then by shift seniority within the existing overtime group arrangement, provided they are ready and available for such work. When overtime work is required on Saturday, Sunday or a paid holiday, it will be allocated by seniority on a departmental basis within the existing overtime group arrangement, provided the employees concerned have the necessary skill, ment and ability to perform the work required.
6.05 In any week in which a paid holiday as provided by this Agreement stills, the Company shall pay time and one-half for all hours worked in ex^cess of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day or thirty (30)hours per week.
6.06	If not enough employees have agreed to come into work from the existing overtime group then the unit seniority list will be used, in descending order of seniority until enough people are found, subject to skill, merit and ability.
ARJTICLEVH
HOLIPAYS
7.01	(a)	Employees other than probationary or seasonal employees who work on
the day upon which any of the following holidays isobserved, namely:
New Years Day Friday
Easter Monday Canada Day Victoria Day
Labour Day Civic Holiday Boxing Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day
shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in addition to the holiday allowance of seven and one half (7 %) hours as provided in paragraph 7.02. These payments shall be computed on the basis of the rate applicable to the job performed.
(b)	Two (2) additional days as determined by the Company will be granted as
a recognized holiday during the Christmas season.
(c)	A holiday allowance of seven and one-half {7°/o) hours will be paid b-the last working day prior to Christmas Day andthe last working day priorto NewYea(s Day subject to the conditions set out in paragraph 7.02 and 7.03.
(d)	Each of the holidays will be observed Monday through Friday.
9
7.02	Employees other than probationary employees not required to work on such r^ecognized holiday shall receive a holiday allowance of seven and one-half (7 1%) hours at the rate paid the employee the last working day before the holiday, provided he works his full scheduled working day immediately preceding and his full schedule working day immediately following such holiday unless absent for any of the following reasons:
(i)	Personal illness (proven by a Doctor's certificate acceptable to the Company);
(ii)	Quarantined by order of a qualified health authority;
(i«) Death in the immediate family;
(iv)	Compulsory Court attendance as a witness or on jury duty;
(v)	If absent up to five (5) working days when written leave of absence therefor has been granted by the empleyee's Department Head;
(vi)	Absent on bona fide Union Business up to ten (10) working days.
7.03	In order to qualify for pay for the holidays as above, the empleyee's scheduled working day herein before referred to must fall within three (3)working days before and within three (3)working days after the said holiday (or within six (6) working days before and within six (6) working days after the said holiday where paragraph7.02 (i) applies) and must be worked.
A	II
REPORTINGALLOWANCE AND CALLL-IN PAY
8.01	An empleyee who is scheduled or notified to report for work and who does report
for work on time shall bo entitled to a minimum of four ( 4) hours straight-time pay, unless previously notified by the Company not to report for work, provided that no reportingallowance shall bo paid for any	of time worked by an
employee within his regularty scheduled shift. Provided further, that if requested by the Company, the empleyee shall perform a minimum of four (4) hours of such available work as the Company may assign, and, further provided, that the Company's obligation-togrant minimum reporting pay as above provided shall not apply where failure to furnish work is due to ceuses beyond the Company's control.
8.02	An empleyee who is celled and returns to work after he has completed his scheduled shift and has left the premises of the Company shall be paid regardless of the amount of time worked, not less than four (4) hours straight-
10
time pay.
ARTICLE IX
SENIORITY
9.01	Seniority means length of continuous service with the Company. It entitles the employee to preference in cases of decrease or increase of the working force.
9.02	An employee shall acquire seniority after completing the probationary period of sixty (60) consecutive working days with the Company (I" after sixty (60) intermittent working days within a period of five (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each of such months and when so acquired, the employee's seniority commences from the date first hired.
9.03	Seniority will be applied separately in the following groups, subject to such change in the future as the interests of the business may require and as agreed to by the Union:
1.	Food Research
2.	Engineering
3.	Purchasing A. Traffic
5.	Production Planning, Scheduling and Supply
6.	Information Services
7.	Factory Controller
8.	Administration
9.04	(a) A new employee's seniority applies in the group to which he is assigned at
the end of his probationary period and continues in that group until the employee is transferred to another group.
(b} An employee who has completed his probationary period file a grievance claiming he has been improperly classified.
9.05 The Company will post in suitable locations, a seniority list for	group, showing the name and seniority of each employee and will revise the list every six (6) months as required. The Local will be provided with copies of the seniority lists.
9.06	(a) The Company recognizes the importance of seniority as a factor to be
considered along with skill, ability and requirementsof the job, in respect of transfers, demotions, promotions, temporary layoffs and recalls to work thereafter within each separate group and when skill, ability and requirements of the job are relatively equal between employees, then
11
group seniority is recognized as the prevailing factor in the making of a selection.
(b) In the application of paragraph 9.06 (a), the time spent in filling a
temporary vacancy shall not result in an employee being given preference over employeeswho normally perform thejob.
9.	07 (a)	In the case of layoffs other than temporary or for a temporary shutdown,
the following p^rocedure shall apply:
(i)	Probationary employees shall be laid off frst;
(ii)	Thereafter, employees shall be laid off on the basis of the employee's chronological time of hiring, provided that the employee has the n^^^ry skill, ability and requirements of the job to perform the requiredwork. However, this paragraph does not apoly to the technical employees of the Food Research, Engineering Groups and Computer Operators which shall be governed by the provisionsof paragraphs9.03 and 9.00;
(in)	In the application of Section (ii) above, the redundant employee
shall exercisetheir departmental and group seniority, and then office-wide seniority above thejob of mail person, provided he/she is able to perform the work. If said employee has lowest office-wide seniority he/she wilt then replace a mail person subject to seniority and being able to perform the work. The employees that are displaced by a redundant employee, will follow the regular bumping p^rocedure.
(b) Employees shall be recalled in the inverse order of being laid off, provided that the employee has the necessary skill, ability and requirements of the job to perform the required work.
9.08	In case of temporary layoffs of not longer than five (5) working days, seniority shall be applied by group seniority, subject to the provisions of paragraph 9.06. However, if a temporary layoff occurs due to an emergency, breakdown or a condition beyond h control of the Company, seniority will nof apply oo any basis fr a period of within two (2) working days.
SENIORITY
9.09	(a) The term "vacancy" for the purposes of this Article shall be defined as an
opening in the group seniority k where the number of persons required by the Company ex^eds the number employed therein, due to an employee's transfer, death, retirement, termination of employment, or an
12
opening of a now department or a new group, and the duration of which is expected to exceed sixty five (65) working days. The vacancy will be posted for three (3) working days throughout the office. Applications for transfer to a posted vacancy may be made in writing by employees throughout the office who have more than bio (2) years seniority.
(b)	In making a transfer, seniority will govern where skill, merit and ability are
comparatively equal, it being understood that the Company will not be obligated to select an applicant if the applicant is not able to meet the normal requirements of thejob. Nothing herein containedwill prevent the Company from filling such vacancy with a candidate from outside the bargaining unit if none of the applicants from within the unit pe^^s the necessaryskill, mentand ability.
(C)	Thejob vacated by an employee transferred under these provisions will be
posted but any subsequent vacancy resulting therefrom will not be subject to posting.
(d)	An employee who fails to fill the requirements of a posted vacancy, at the option of the ^^^^y, will be transferred back to the group he worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he would have continued to in that group except for his selection to the posted vacancy, or to some other group. Such employee may not apply for the same posted vacancy for a period of twelve (12) months.
(e)	In the case of arbitration, not more than one (1) employee may claim an improper selection for the same posted vacancy.
9. 1 o (a) An employee who is transferred from one group to another group as a
result of his own request, acquires no group seniority in that new group for a period of six (6) months except over employees brought into the group after the date of his transfer, but ifretained in that group after a period of six (6) months, the employee's total seniority shall be transferred to the new group.
(b)	Where the transfer of a person in the employ of the Company from outside
the bargaining unit into the bargaining unit is mutually agreed upon between the Company and Union, such person (employee) acquires no seniority within the bargaining unit ir a^^od of (6) six months except over employees brought into the bargaining unit after the date of his/her transfer, but if retained in the bargaining unit after a period of six (6) months, the employees' bargaining unit seniority will be based upon his/her total service with the Company.
(c)	In the application of (b) above, an employee who fails to fill the
13
9.11
requirements of the position within six (6) months from transfer into the bargaining unit, at the option of the Company, will be transferred back to the group he/she worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he/she would have otherwise continued to work in that group except for his/her transfer or to some other group within his/her original bargaining unit for placement, if any on the basis of skill, ability and seniority.
(d)	In the applicetion of (b) above, for the purpose of lay offs within the period of one (1) year following the employee's transfer into the bargaining unit from outside the bargaining unit, at the option of the company, will be transferred back to the group he/she worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he/she would have otherwise continued to work in that group except for his/her transfer, or to some other group within his/her original bargaining unit for placement, ifany, on the basis of skill, ability and seniority.
(e)	The Company and Union agree, where practical, the ^Company will try and place employees on sick leave compensation, on jobs they are capable of performing. If necessary, in the assignment of this work the employees must agree to waive their seniority rights.
(a)	An employee who is transferred from one group to another group by the Company acquires no seniority in the new group for a period of three (3) months, except over employees brought into the group after the date of his transfer but if retained in that group after a period of three (3) months, his group seniority, based upen his total service with the Company, applies in such new group. However, an employee, who is transferred by the Company to a new group as a result of a reduction in the numbor of employees in his former group due to a technological change, shall acquire seniority in the new group as of date of transfer.
(b)	In the application of the above, an employee who is rendered redundant or displaced from his/her job as result of technological change shall exercise their department and group seniority and then office-wide seniority above thejob of mail person, provided he/she is able to perform the work. I said employee has lowest office-wide seniority, he/she will then replace a mail person subject to seniority and being able to perform the work. The employees that are displaced by a redundant employee, will follow the regular bumping procedure.
(c)	Notwithstandingthe above displacement procedures, the Employer and the Union, at any time, cen formulate special measures to modify the above displacement procedures to take into account the desire of the parties to minimize the impact of displacement or to deal with particular operational considerations.
14
SENIORITY
9.12	When an employee after being transferred is laid off, such layoff shall not interferewith the accumulation of seniority in the new group. When recalled such an employee will have preference over employees with less group seniority to ccme back into the group he was working at the time of layoff. When recalled, the accumulation of seniority will continue until six (6) months after the date of the first transfer, or three (3) months, whichever is applicable.
9.13	An employee transferred to any position within the Company excluded from the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement and subsequently transferred back to a position in the bargaining unit within a period of one (1) year, shall retain his full seniority within the bargaining unit and shall be considered to have been continuously employed therein. Any other employee transferred from a position within the Company outside the bargaining unit to a position covered by this Agreement, shall acquire seniority in the bargaining unit as of the date of his transfer.
9.14	Inthe event of a temporary shutdown of one or more groups, group seniority will
apply to the employees involvedwith respect to layoffs of two (2) week duration or less, provided that this	only be applied once per calendar year to the
same employees. If any of the paid holidays under paragraph 7.01 occur during such a shut-down, employees \\Nl1o are laid off under this provision shall receive holiday allowance in a^rdance with paragraph 7. 02, provided they work the full scheduled working day with (3) three working days immediately preceding and within three (3) working days immediately following the shutdown period. Employees who continue to work during a shutdown shall qualify for holiday allowance in accordance with paragraphs 7.02 and 7.03.
9.15	Leave of a^bsence, if granted in writing by the Company, will not affect an employee's seniority rating. An employee ^may, under special circumstances, receive a maximum of three (3)weeks leave of absence through his Department Head.
9.16	An employee loses senioritywhen the employee:
(a)	Quits or resigns;
(b)	Is discharged for just cause.
(c)	In case of an employee with less than two (2) year’s seniority, is laid off for lack of work for a continuous period in excess of the length of his seniority with the Company. In the case of employees with seniority of two (2) years or more, is laid off for lack of work, for a continuous period in excess of five (5) years.
IS
(d)	Fails to report for work when called without a valid reason; or
(e)	Fails to report for work within seventy-two (72) hours after being sent a written notice by registered mail addressed to the employee's last address known to the Company, advising that all seniority rights shall terminate if the employee fails to report within seventy-two (72) hours of such notice, unless the employee obtains a written extension of the time within which to report within seventy-two (72) hours of such notice.
9.17	(a) A pregnant employee may apply for and take a leave of absence at the
end of five (5) months of pregnancy and shall be re-employed with full seniority rights provided she reports to work within two (2) months after the birth, unless she produces a medicel certificate satisfactory to the Company showing that she is unable to do so.
(b) In the case of adoption of a pre-school child, the mother or father may apply for leave of absence of three (3) months effective the date of receipt of the child and shall be entitled to be ire-employed with full seniority rights at termination of such leave.
9.18	(a) The local union president, chief steward, and chairperson shall have the
privilege of working on the day shift.
(b)	The first vice-president, assistant chief steward and person replacingthe chairperson shall have the privilege of working on the day shift if the president, chief steward or chairperson is respectively absent for extended periods of time such as vacations, cenventions, etc.
(c)	The chief steward or his/her replacement will be paid at a rate of pay determined by his/her classification or years of service.
9.19	An employee who presents a medicel certificate showing that he has been ill or displaced by accident shall maintain his seniority rights during the period of such illness or disability.
9.20	The Company will endeavour to place an employee having long and faithful service who has ^become unable to handle hisjob in anotherjob which he/she is competent to perform.
9.21	The Company will forward to the union six (6) copies of all departmental and
group seniority lists semi-annually.
16
ARTICLED
VACATIONS
10.01	Each regular employee shall be entitled to a vacation, its length to be determined as follows:
Annual Plant Shutdowns
(a)	Two (2) weeks in July
Two (2) weeks in Dumber
Statutory Holidayswill be included in the two (2) week shutdown in December.
Posted by February 1st indiceting what departments will be shutdown.
If after Febmary llt changes are required that necessitate departments working, volunteers will be sought by Department seniority and then by Plant seniority.
Twe (2) yweeks mandatory vacation must be taken during the July shutdown forthose employees with four (4) or more weeks of vacation, effective calendar year 2002.
(b)	Ifemployed less than ten (10) months during the previous fiscal year, <a,e (1) day of vacation during the second fiscal year for each full calendar month of service in the previous fiscal year;
(c)	If employed ten (10) months or more but less than one full year during the previous fiscal year; two (2) weeks of vacation in the second ^meal year;
(d)	During the fiscal year in which the employee celebrates his second (2nd) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive oo (2) weeks of vacation with pay;
(e)	During the	year in which the employee celebrates his fifth (5th) and
each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive three (3)weeks of vacation with pay;
(f)	During the ^meal year in which the employee celebrates his tenth ( 1 O'? and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall
17
receive four (4) weeks of vacation with pay;
(g)	During the fiscal year in which the employee celebrates his eighteenth (18tti) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive five (5) weeks of vacation with pay;
(h)	During the fiscal year in which the employee celebrates his twenty-fifth (25) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive sx (6) weeks of vacation with pay.
10.02	Five (5) working days shall constitute one week.
10.03	Vacations with pay shall be calculated as follows:
(a)	Employees entitled to two (2) weeks less vacation • four percent (4%) of earnings for the preceding fiscal year,
(b)	Employees entitled to three (3)weeks vacation ■ six percent (6%)of earnings for the preceding fiscal year;
(c)	Employees entitled to four (4) weeks vacation • eight percent (8%) of earnings for the precedingfiscalyear;
(d)	Employees entitled to five (5) weeks vacation - ten percent (10%) of earnings for the preceding fiscal year;
(e)	Employees entitled to six (6) weeks vacation • twelve percent (12%) of earnings for the preceding fiscal year;
(f} Vacation pay shall be calculated as follows:
1.	Ifthe employee has worked 500 or more hours during the preceding year, two percant (2%) of earnings for such preceding fiscal year for each week of vacation entitlement, or the equivalent of the employee's regular hourly wage rate for a 37-1 /2 hourweek, whichever is greater;
2.	Ifthe employee has worked less than 500 hours during the preceding
fiscal year, two percent (2%) of the employee's earnings	such
preceding	year for each week of vacation entitlement;
3.	In calculatingthe time worked, absencewhile receiving Workers' Compansation, weekly indemnity o- casual Union business, paid holidays and vacations will be credited as timed worked on the basis of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours for each day the employee would otherwise have regularly worked, provided that the employee has worked during such
18
preceding fiscal year.
10.04	(a) When a paid holiday occurs while an employee is on vacation, he will be paid holiday pay in addition to regular vacation pay.
(b)	(i)	Employeeswill have the option of taking an additional day off on
either the Friday preceding or the Monday following their vacation if a paid holiday ^occurs during their regular vacation pariod. The employees must notify supervision of their intentions no later than one (1) week prior to the ccmmencament of their vacation.
(ii)	Employeeswhose vacation monies are considerably reduced
because of absence the preceding year, may elect to take a reduced vacation time during the current year, equivalent to the amount of their vacation monies. The amount of vacation time to be taken is to be reviewed by the Human Resources Department, subject to legal requirements.
1 O.05 Employe entitled to a vacation will take it when convenient to the Company. Exceptionsto this policy will only be granted under special circumstances and must be approved by the Vice-President concerned.
10.06	When practicable, vacations will be scheduled as requested by the employees in the employee seniority order except that efficient operation of the Company shall be first consideration and the Company shall have the right to assign vacations on that basis.
10.07	An eligible employee upan being laid off indefinitely without having received the paid vacation provided under this Article, will receive vacation pay accumulated to the employee's credit at the end of the previousfiscal year, unless the employee notifies the Company in writing at the time of layoff that he prefers to postpone such paid vacation until later in the fiscal year in which he is laid off. Vacation pay will be made by cheque.
1 0.08 Upan termination of employment, an employee will receive vacation pay accumulated to his credit.
19
ARTICLE XI
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
11.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive functioh of the Company to:
(i)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(ii)	Hire, classify, direct and lay-off;
(iii)	Discharge, transfer, promote, demote, suspend or otherwise discipline employees subject to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance as herein provided;
(iv)	Make and alter from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by the employees provided they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement;
(v)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the right to plan operations, to determine services to be performed and the methods, procedures and equipment in connection therewith, the engineering and designing of its products, the control O materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced, and the extension, limitations, curtailment or cessation of operations.
11.02	it i s understood that the causes for which the Company may summarily suspend employees (provided that the suspension will not preclude the Company from discharging the employee) include the following:
(i)	Intoxication;
(ii)	Disorderly conduct;
(iii)	Insubordination;
(iv)	Unauthorized absenteeism;
(v)	Neglect of duty;
(vi)	Carelessness endangering the safety of others;
(vii)	Theft or destruction of Company property;
11.03	The termination of any employee without seniority may be for any reason as
20
determined by the Company.
11.04	The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of thisAgreement.
ARTICLE XII
NON STRIKE PROVISION
12.01	The Union agrees to accept and abide by al the terms and conditions of this Agreement and during its term will not permit its members to engage in any walkout, sit-down, slow-down or other interferencewith or interruptionof work and that it will not call, countenance or otherwise encourage any walk-out or strike. Any employee violating this provision shall be subject to disciplinary action as determined by the Company. The Company agrees to accept and abide by all the terms and conditions of this Agreement and during this term will not lock out the employees.
ARTICLE xm
GEE
I EVAN
13.01	The Union will appoint, from among empbyees who have completed their probationary period, and the Company will r^gnize eight (8) Stewards and a Committee comprised of not more than three (3), one of whom shall be the Chairperson of the Committee.
13.02	(a) Each Steward or Committeeman shall be permitted to function as
only as provided herein. It is understood that the Stewards and Committeemen have their regular work to perform on behalf of the Company and will spend only such time during working hours as is necessary to service grievances as provided under the grievance procedure. If it is necessary to service a grievance as authorized by this Agreement, they will not leave their regularwork without first obtaining the permission of their Department Head. It is also understood that a ^^rard shall not enter another Department without first obtaining the permission of the Department Head of such Department and notifying him as to the nature of the grievance and the personnel involved. The Steward, upen leaving a Departmentafter servicing a grievance, will notify the Department Head thereof, and upen resuming his regulanvork, after servicing a grievance in his own or another Department will reportto his own Department Head. Whenever, in the opinion of the Department Head concerned, more than a reasonable period of time has been taken by a Steward in servicing a grievance, the Steward's Department Head rrray decline to approve payment to such Steward for such excess time. The
21
Chief Steward shall be full time paid by the ^Company but maintain seniority rights tor departmental seniority.
(b)	All grievances shall be dealt with during wori<ing hours where possible
without loss of time or pay to the parties involved.
13. 03 ^ben an employee is being disciplined for any reason, he may elect at his discretion to have a Union representative present during any interview.
13.04	The Local shall notify the Company in writing from time to time of the names of the Committeemen and Stewards.
13.05	The Company will supply the Chairman of the Committee with a list of the Department Heads and Assistant Department Heads excluded from the provisions of this Agreement as aforesaid and will notify the chairman of any changes hereto.
13.06	It is understood that an empbyee has no grievance until he has given his Department Head an opportunity to adjust his complaint which shall be presented by the employee, who shall be accompanied by the Group Steward, to his Department Head within three (3) full working days after the circumstances giving rise to the complaint have originated or (Scarred. Ifan employee has an unsettled complaint, it may be taken up as a grievance within three (3)full wori<ing days after receivingthe Department Head's decision in the following manner and sequence:
Step No. 1.
Between the employee, who may be accompanied by the Group Steward, and his Department Head. The grievance shall be presented in writing and the decision of the Department Head shall be given in writing within two full working days following the presentation of the grievance; Failing settlement, then:
Step No. 2
The matter may be presentedi n writing within two (2) working days to the Human Resources Department and the Human Resources Department's written decision given within not more than three (3) working days following receipt of the written grievance at this step; Failing settlement, then:
StepNo. . 3
Within five (5) full wori<ing days following the decision under Step 2, the grievance shall be submitted as a part of the agenda for a meeting between the Company's representatives and members of the Union Committee, not exceeding five (5) in number. An International
22
Representativeof the Union may be present at such meeting. The decision of the Company's representativesshall be given in writing within five full working days of the said meeting.
13.07	Failing settlement of any difference between the parties under Step No. 3 of the Grievance Pr^dure arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, such difference or question may be taken to arbitration as provided in Article XIV. If no written request fr arbitration is received within ten working days after the final decision under the Grievance P^rocedure is given, it shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned.
13.08	Any difference arising directly between the Company and the Union may be submitted by either patty at Step No. 3 ofthe Grievance Pr^edure and time limits provided thereby shall appropriately apply to both parties.
13.09	The aggrieved employee may be present during each step of the Grievance Procedure and at Arbitration.
13. 1 O When a group of employees has a complaint or grievance It shall first be taken up under Step No. 2 and they may be represented by the appropriate Steward and not more than two (2) employees.
13. 11 Any adjustment arising under a settlement through the Grievance Procedure or under a decision of an Arbitration Board shall not be made retroactive to the date the matter is first presented under the Grievance P^rocedure, except as to improper classification or bookkeeping error involving an employee's earnings.
13.12	All decisions arrived at, between representativesof the Company and the representativesof the Union, at any step ofthe written Grievance Procedure, shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union and the employee or employees cencemed. The Company shall submit a written reply to each written grievance.
13.13	Failure of the Union or employees to comply with the time limits in Step 1, 2 and 3 above, shall be considered as acceptance of the last answer given, thus disposing of the grievance. Failure of the Company to comply with the time limits provided in Steps 1, 2 and 3 above shall be considered as refusal of the request involved in the grievance and immediate appeal to the next step in ti'E grievance procedure may be taken. When either party desires additionaltime within which to properly process a grievance, additional time within reasonable limits shall be granted by the other party upon written request.
13. 14 At any step in this grievance procedure, the Executive Board of the Local Union shall have the final authority in res^^ to any aggrieved employee covered by
23
this Agreement, to decline to process a grievance, cemplaint difficulty or dispute further if, in the judgement of the Executive Board, such grievance or dispute lacks merit or lacksjustification under the tem,s of this Agreement, or has ^been adjusted ^justified under the tem,s of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Executive Board. Once the aggrieved employee has been notified either by their steward the Union Business Representative that their grievance is being dropped ^because lack of merit, the aggrieved employee has fifteen (15) celendar days to appeal that decision by sending a letter to the Union President requesting to appear before the Union Executive Board.
13.15 Notwithstandinganything contained in this Agreement the provisions of this Article and the provisions of Article XfV of this Agreement do not apply to probationary employees, mr shall the provisions of this Article or the provisions of Article XIV of this Agreement be available to the Union on behalf of any probationary employee.
ARTICLE XJY
ARBITRATION
14.01	When either party requests that any matter be submitted to arbitration as herein
before provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, and at the same time nominate an arbitrator. Within five (5) days thereafter the other party shall nominate an arbitrator; provided, however, that if such party fails to nominate an arbitrator as herein requiredthe Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall have pewer to effect such an appointment upen the application thereto by the party invoking arbitration procedure. The bo (2) arbitrators shall, within five (5) days of the appointment of the latter of them, attempt to select by agreement a Chaim,an of the Arbitration Board. If they are unable to agree upon such a Chai^n within such a period of ie (5) days, they shall then request the Ontario Labour Arbitration Commission to assist them in selecting an impartial Chaim,an, provided that the Chaim,an shall be selected from other than the Civil Service and	be chosen having
regardto his impartiality, his qualifications in interpreting collective agreements and his familiarity \with industrial relations.
14.02	No person mey be appointed as an arbitratonNtio has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
14.03	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous Steps of the Grievance Pr^dure.
14.04	The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify er amend any part of this Agreement.
24
14.05	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of the majority, or failing that, the Chainnan of such Board, will be final and binding upon the parties hereto and the empbyee or employees concerned.
14.06	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of the arbitrator representing it, and the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chainnan of the Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE XV
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR L________N________________IVES
15.01	(a) A leave of absence with seniority maintained will be granted for a period of two years to two (2) employees (only one per department) at any time acoepting a full-time positionwith the Union subject to renewal upon mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
For the interpretation of this clause for leave of abeence for union representatives means that the time spent on leave of absence is acoumulatedfor seniority purposes only, but not for fringe benefits, e.g. pension service, ete., unless s^pecificelly agreed upon.
(b)	Reasonable time off with seniority maintained shall be granted to Union
representatives to attend bona fide Union business, provided competent replacements are available for those employees desiring to be away from work. Every consideration will be given a Union officer to make it possible tt him to attend Union meetings.
ARTICLE XVI
SICKAND WELFARE PLAN
1601 The Company agrees to assume the cost of the following Sick and Welfare Plans with respect to each empbyee white in the active employment of the Company who is eligible for benefits thereunder:
(a)	Ontario Health Insurance Plan;
(a)	(i) The Weekly Indemnity Plan providing a maximum coverage of fifty-
two (52) weeks shall provide a weekly indemnity allowance equivalent to the sfifty-six and two-thirds (66 213) percent UnempbymentInsurance Commission Plan for employees who qualify thereunder;
25
For employees with less than one (1) years service with the Company, benefits provided will be the length of Company Service;
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i) 0)
(k)
(l)
(m)
(n)
(Hi)	Weekly indemnity payments will continue only while employees are
on the active payroll;
(i)	A regular employee who loses time through an injury, sickness or disease, where Workers' Compensation Benefits are not payable, and on producing a medical certificate shall be paid his regular wages until he is eligible for his weekly indemnity;
(ii)	Where Workers' Compensation Benefits accrue on account of injury, this will be in lieu of payment of wages by the Company;
All regular employees shall be entitled to Weekly Indemnity Benefits immediately upon reinstatement on the payroll following a lay-off;
Supplementary Hospitalization Plan to be continued;
The Company will pay the first $6.50 for dispensing f^ on prescriptions.
The present supplementary Health Care Benefit Plan will remain in effect;
The Company will provide a Dental Plan; 9 month check-ups;
On July 1, 2001 the 1999 O.D.A. will become effective. On January 1,
2002 the O.D.A. will be maintained with a two (2) year lag period.
The present Long Term Total Disability Plan will remain in effect;
Out-of-Province/Country emergency treatment
The Company will providea basic vision care plan; 1 pair every two (2) years; $200 every two (2) years. The Company will pay up to Thirty ($30) dollars for an annual eye exam when it ls not covered by O.H.I.P. A receipt Is to be fo^rwaded to the benefit provider for reimbursement
Physiotherapy treatment covering visits to licensed clinics.
Chiropractor coverage $275 per year;
Benefit maximum per lifetime for retirees or their dependents
Year 2000=$25,000 Year 2001=$30,000
26
(0) Option to continue Life Insurance after retirement at same cost (after 05/01/98) up to age sixty five (65);
16.02	(a)	The Plan documents for all sick and welfare benefits provided under the
agreement are an integral part of the CollectiveAgreement and are hereby incorporated by reference into it. The Company will provide the Union with complete and current documents of all benefit plans.
(b)	The Company will ensure and agree if Benefits Carrier is changed the same coverages will apply.
ABHCLEXV11
UNIEOSMS
17.01	Will be issued aocording to Company/Govemment regulations.
ARTICLE XVIII BULLETIN BOARDS
18.01	The Company agrees to maintain bulletin boards on which the Union imay post notices of the time and place of meetings, recreations, social affairs and elections and names of officers or accredited representatives and such other notices as may be approved by the Company. The Union shall deliver one ccpy of each notice to the Human Resources Department one-half hour prior to posting.
ABIIGLEXK REST PERIODS
19.01	Employees shall be entitled to 'bJo (2) rest periods of ten (10) minutes each for each seven and one-half (7-1/2) hour day.
27
ARTICLE XX tiEALTHAND SAFETY
20.01	The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees in the office during their working hours.
20.02	A Union representativewill be appointed 0)1 the Union to the Company's Safety Committee to attend safety meetings. The Company agrees to notify this Union Safety Representativeof any lost time accidents in the bargaining unit.
20.03 The Company will provide safety shoes to all employees	are required to wear them.
Safety ShoesAllowance to be $100 percontractyear.
ARTICLE XXI
GENERAL
21.01	The Chief Steward and Chairperson will be furnished with a copy of any employee report given to an employee.
21.02	(a) The Company agrees that no employee shall be discharged or disciplined
except for just cause.
(b)	The Company agrees that where meetings are held with employees concerning their work or conduct, which implements any form of official reprimand, discipline or discharge, a Shop Steward or Union Representative will be present. The Shop Steward or Union Representative shall leave the meeting if requested to do so by the employee.
(c)	The Union understands the importance the Company places on its Rules and Regulations in regards to punctual and steady attendance, proper notification in case of absence and conduct on thejob.
21.03	The Company will discuss with the Union, work that is being considered to be contracted out, that is not of an emergency nature. The purpose of the discussionwill be for the Company to outline the work to be done, the reason for contracting itout and obtaining the Union's ffeedbeck and possible options.
28
ARTICLE XXH
TERMINATION AND RENEWAL.
22.01	This Agreement shall remain in effect until Apr11'30, 2004 and shall continue in force thereafter from year to year unless either party shall have given (60) days written notice to the other of its desire to terminate the same. In the event of such notice of amendment or termination by either party, eadl party shall submit to the other party, within fifteen (15) days thereafter its proposed amendments, if any, to this Agreement and the parties agree to meet to commence negotiations with respect to such amendments within not laterthan a further period of fifteen (15) days.
EXECUTED a; LEAMINGTON, Ontario
this________day of
FOR:
H. J. HEINZ COMP^W OF	LTD
Jin Whittal Ross Craig	Piche	Lang Jeff Nanceklvell Ernie Nikita
FOR:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS- LOCAL 459 A.F.L. C.1.0. C.L.C.
Paul McGee	R^obert Adams
^Peny Sabelli	^Marktasso
Bob Cranston	Cindy Hutchins
Lorraine C^ran
June Davie Bob ^Martin ^Archie Cenrini
Robert C^rawford Tla T^^w Kevin David
29
APPENDIX "A"
1,2m
OFFICE AND TECHNICAL UNIT
JOB GRADE	AFTER 60 WORKING DAYS	6MOS.	9MOS.	12 MOS.
1.	492.39	711.77		
I 2.	502.52	723.39		
I 3. s11.s2		735.76		
I 4. 523.52		742.14	750.02	
IS. 538.51		749.27	765.39	
6.	545.64	757.14	774.39 |	785.26
\h	I	553.52	766.14	784.14 • 808.89	
LEAD RATE .. 31 CENTS/HOUR
EFFECTIVE MAY 1 , 2002
JOB GRADE	AFTER 60 WORKING DAYS	6MOS.	9MOS.	12 MOS.
1.	511.14	730.52		
2.	521.27	742.14		
3.	530.27	754.51		
4.	542.27	760.89	768.77	
5.	557.26	768.02	784.14	
6.	564.39	775.89	793.14	804.01
7.	572.27	784.89	802.89	827.64
••**NOTE THESE RATES DO NOT REFLECT FUTURE C.0.LA FOLD-INS**"
30
JOB GRADE	AFTER 60 WORKING DAYS	6 MOS.	9 MOS.	12 MOS.
1.	531.79	751.17		
2.	541.92	762.79		
3.	550.92	775.16		
4.	562.92	781.54	789.42	
5.	577.91	788.67	804.79	
6.	585.04	796.54	813.79	824.66
L_____________________ A	-	■	*
****NOTE THESE RATES DO NOT REFLECT FUTUREC.O.L.A. FOLD-INS**”
RULES AN______________TIQN_________________________RATI OF JOB DIN
AND JOB CLASSIFICATION PROG^I
1.	All job grades and classifications effective June 1, 1998 have been correctly described and assigned to job grades and wage inequities thereby eliminated. Accordingly, no grievance alleging wage rate inequitieswill be filed or processed except where ajob has substantially changed. Subsequentjob, whosejob descriptions and grading have been approved by the Union as hereinafter provided, wiB be censidered as correct, and no grievance alleging ^ege rate inequitieswill be filed.
2.	(a) A "change" inajob as referred to herein is one which materially affects ls
contents requirements. Changes in a job description alone are not adequate to warrant regrading of an existingjob;
(b)	When a newjob is established or an old job is substantially changed, ajob description for such rrel./ changedjob will be assigned to the appropriate job grade, based on cemparisonwith the otherjobs in the respective^wage schedulewhich applies;
(c)	A copy of the job description of the new or changedjob will be sent to the Union for approval at the earliest possible date after thejob has 1^^
31
created, or the changes to the existingjob have been made, together with a notation of thejob grade;
(d)	Upon commencing an experimentaljob, changedjob, a newjob, an employee will remain at thejob classification rate which he regularly received prior to this job, until a job grade rate is assigned to the job. The job will be graded within a three (3) month periodwhere possible;
(e)	If the Union believes that an existingjob has changed to an extent sufficient to warrant an adjustment injob grade, it shall notify the Company in writing of its contention and of the adjustment injob grade it contends to be appropriate. Such notice, insofar as possible, shall be given to the Companywithin fifteen (15) working days after the change in thejob is alleged to have ^occurred;
(f)	Any job description and grade proposed by the Company shall be
considered acceptedby the Union if no written complaint is filed by the Unionwithin fifteen (15) working days after suchjob description and grade is submitted to the Union;	.
(g)	Upon receipt of notice that a difference exists concerning thejob description orjob grading of a new or substantially changedjob, the Company representative^ meet with the Union Job Grading Committee to discuss the differenca and attempt to make a settlement of these differences. The Company will advise the Union, in writing, of their decision regarding the said Job Description or Job Grade;
(h)	(i)	If the Com^pany and Union are unable to reach agreement on the
job description orjob grading of ajob classification within a reasonable peried of time, the difference will be submitted by either party to an ImpartialArbitrator;
(ii)	TheArbitrator shall be chosen by agreement of the partieswithin ten (10) working days following their disagreementfailing which the Arbitrator will be appointed by the Minister a. Labour of the Province of Ontario upon thewritten application of either party;
(iii)	No parson imay be appointed as the Arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiateor settle the matters to be decided by the Arbitrator;
(iv)	The Arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistentwith the provisionsof these Rules and Regulations, rato alter, modify or amend any of them;
32
(v)	The proceedings of the Arbitrator will be expedited by the parties and the decision of the Arbitrator will be final and binding on the parties hereto and the employee or employees concerned;
(vi)	The parties will jointly bearthe expenses ofthe Arbitrator.
3.	The description and grading ofjobs will be in compliance with the following rules:
(a)	The description and grading shall be of the job, not the person performing it;
(b)	Duties not assigned or approved by Management shall not be considered;
(c)	The grading shall be based upon average requirements to perform the job satisfactorily rather than upon exceptions to the average;
(d)	The grading shall be based upon the performance of a fair day's work, and employees will be expected to maintain such standards;
(e)	Thejob descriptions are to be sufficiently accurateto reveal those features of the job that determine its classification. At the time, they are not intended to provide a complete listing of every individual feature of thejob. If new duties, which rmay be assigned at any time, ^become a permanent feature of the work, the job shall be reconsideredas provided in Section 2.
4.	The factors used to determine Job Classifications are as follows:
i.	Job Knowledge;
ii.	Education and Training;
iii.	Complexity;
iv.	Responsibilityfor Judgment;
v.	Responsibilityfor Accuracy;
vi.	Responsibilityfor Confidential Matters;
vii.	Responsibilityfor Interpersonal Skills;
viii.	Working Conditions;
ix.	Physical Effort.
5.	(a) An employee will be classified and assigned to the sixty (60) workingday
rate in the appropriatejob grade upon obtaining seniority;
(b)	An employee, who maintains seniority privileges after being laid off for lack of work and being reinstated, is eligible for Job Grading. He will be placed on the salary schedule according to his length of service on the job inthe appropriatejob grade and classification subject to Clause 6;
(c)	The Company maintains the prerogative to hire technical and skilled
33
employees at rates above the minimum wage rates as outlined in the salary grid in the collective agreement, provided these rates are not inconsistent with rates paid to employees in the same job classification;
(d)	An employee, who has lost his seniority with the Company by reason of a lay-off shall, on rehiring, bo treated as a new employee and must accumulate the necessary service under Clause 5 (a) hereof in order to again l^ccme eligible for job grading.
6.	Each employee respectively shall be classified and paid for all hours worked each day the appropriate rate of the wage schedulefor the job grade inwhich he is classified.
7.	Employees should be classified and receive their classification rate at all times for all work performed unless permanently promoted, transferred or demoted. Employees transferred shall receivethe appropriatejob classification rate as defined in Clause 6.
8.	Employeeswho work on jobs graded on the basis of the employee being required to wear safety equipment will be required to wear such equipment when performing the work which requires such protection.
9.	Employeeswill bo paid at theirjob classification rate for the time spent during working hours attending meetings approved by Management
10.	(a)	The wage rate of an employee whose job grade has been lowered as a
result of the introduction of the job grading program will be considered "red-circled* and will not bo reduced as long as he remains on the job;
(b)	A "red-circled" employee who moves to anotherjob will receive the grade
and wage rate of the newjob classification he performs.
34
APPENDIX " BM
No Renewals unless as per article 17.01.
APPENDIX "C" Modified Cola Fonnula
Cost of living formula modified to one ( l^nt for each 3/10% me in the CPI for the period May 1st to April 30th.
Amount of payoutwill be folded into wages effective May/ 1st of each year.
Retroactive COLA will be paid by separate cheque for all hoursworked, calculated by fiscal year end, to be paid in June of each year.
APPENDIX "P" PENSION AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
Leamington, Ontario
(hereinafter called the "Company")
-and-
UNITED FOODAND COMMERCIAL WORKERS Affiliated with A.F.L. • C.I.O. and the Canadian Labour Congress, on behalf of its Local 459
(hereinafter called the "Union")
"Plan” or "Pension Plan" means the "Hourly-rated Employ^' Pension Plan" set forth in Schedule "A" hereto or such amended or substitute plan as the parties may agree upon pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, with the following amendments:
35
AMOUNT OF RETIREMENT ALLOWANCE UNDER THE PLAN
For retirements on or after January 1, 2001, the minimum RetirementAllowance payableto a Member shall be equal to $30.00 per month multiplied bf the number of years of his Creditable Service (within the meaning of the Old Plan or this Plan, as applicable).
Effective January 1,2002: minimum retirement allowancewill be $31.00 per month
Effective January 1,2003: minimum retirementallowancewill be $32.00 permonth
■The Planwill incorporate the following features:
a)	One and one half percent (1% %) of the average of the best five (5) years of the lastten (10) y^ears.
b)	Fifty percent (50%) spouse benefit - surviving spouse of pensionerto receivefd'ty percent (50%) of the basic pension. lnaddltlon to the normal survivor benefit underthe present pension plan, fifty percent(50%) of the supplementwill be paid to the surviving spouse until such time as the deceased penslonerwould have reachedageslxty five (65).
c)	Contribution • four percent (4%) of Gross Earnings.
d)	Supplement of $19. 00 per month per year of pension service, withi a maximum service of thirty one (31) years.
e)	COLA on pensioners recaiving this pension - seventy five percent (75%) of consumer price index to a maximum of six percent (6%).
f)	Pensionerswill r^«ive either the minimum guarantee or the percentage formula, which is greater.
g)	A pension seminarwill be provided on a yeariy basis for perspective retirees,
The Company will provide revised benefit booklets after ratification of this contract.
36
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused their names to be subscribed to this Ag^reement by their respective duly authorized representative this______day of ______________________
FOR THE COMPANY;
Jim Whittal Ross Craig Don Piche	Carolyn I^Lang Jeff Nanceklvell
EmieNikHa
FOR THE UNION:
Paul M^cGee Robert Adams Archie Cervlni Tia Toomer Bob Cranston
MarkStasso Lorraine Perry Sabelli Kevin David Bob Martin
Rob Cra^wford June Davie Cindy Hutchins
37
June 1,2001
Mr. Bob Martin
President, ^Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H3C4
Dear Mr. Martin:
The following is in confirmation of the terms of the Company's long term total disability insurance plan.
1.	A benefit of $850 per month m a deduction of four percent (4%)as the employee's annual maximum contribution to the pension fund for as long as the employee is totally disabled but not after the normal retirement at age sixty five (65).
2.	The employee's annual maximum pension contributionwill increase as the monthly benefit under the plan increases.
3.	The premium for the employee's continuing life insurancecoverage will be paid by the company during the period of long term disability insurance benefit payments.
4.	The employee must submit medicel evidence satisfactory to the insurance company for acceptance of his claim and as required during the period of total disability insurance payments.
5.	The long term total disability insurance plan is effective after the completion of fifty two (52) weeks of weekly indemnity payments.
6.	The employee imay also qualify fr Canada Pension Plan disability payments. The total benefit of the long term total disability insurance plan plus the Canada Pension Plan disability payments, etc. cannot exceed the 66-2/3% U.t.C.
7.	Eligibility for benefits is one (1) year seniority prior to the claim for weekly indemnity which qualifies the employee to apply for the longterm total disability insurance plan.
8.	Employees receiving long term total disability insurance benefitswill have normal pension benefits accumulated during the period of long term total disability.
38
9.	Ifthe employee ceases to te totally disabled, the long term total disability insurancewill terminate.
10.	Ifthe employee continues to be disabled to the extent he is unable to perform any of the jobs available at the H. J. Heinz Company of Canada Ltd his long term disability insurance will continue provided he does not acoept employment elsewhere.
11.	The Company agrees to qualify employoes, whose compensation payments are discontinued and they are unable to work under the long term total disability plan, with the following provisions.
(a)	This will be on a tml basis for the term of the Agreement.
(b)	Any compensation pension received from Workers' Compensation will be deducted from the term total disability payments.
(C)	The employee must agree to perform any work that is available i n order to
qualify for the longterm disability provisions.
Yours truly,
T. Jaimes Whittal
Manager, Labour Relations/Safety
39
June 1, 2001
Mr. Bob Martin
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Martin:
As discussed during negotiations when the day before Christmas and the day before New Yea(s Day falls on a Saturday tr Sunday, the Company will have the option of observing these days on some other day during the Christmas holiday period.
This will be implemented on a trial basis for the term of the agreement.
Yours truly,
T. James Whittal
Manager, Labeur Relations/Safety
40
June 1, 2001
Mr. Bob Martin
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Martin:
BE: Taining Trust Fund
Concaming the recent M^^randum of Settlement between the Company and the Union as agreed upon, the Company wishes to confirm by letter, the following matter concerning the training trust fund.
1)	A fund of $200,000 per contract year will be spent by the Company for training.
2)	The Company will have the option of not spending the committed monies if the government passes legislation requiring the Company to contribute to a government fund.
The Company agrees to renew the July 16, 1992, letter of Understanding. As an alternative, the Union/Management Committeewill review the option of setting up a joint education training and trust fund with the condition of securing additional funds the Federal and/or Provincial govemment(s).
Yours truly,
T. James Whittal
Manager, Labour Relations/Safety
41
Letter of Intent
Mr. Bob Martin
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie St. South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Martin:
Re- Provinra/Nationwida Protest Day
As discussed during negotiations, in the event of a province/nationwide protest day, the Company agrees to meet with the Union and discuss the ramifications of any such action as it pertains to the Union members and the Company.
Yours truly,
James Whittal
Manager, Labour Relations/Safety
42
June 1, 2001
Mr. Bob Martin
President, Local459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H3C4
Dear Mr. Martin:
The following response to the Union’s recommendations to the Ministry of Labour is intended to clarify the Company’s position on these important matters.
Recommendation 1 ■ The company agrees that it will discuss proposed changes and /or modifications for machines, equipment and work methods involving maintenancewith the Health and Safety Committee.
R_____________i 2: More than one person will do tests of new or substantially
modified equipment
Recommendaion 3: The Health and Safety Committee should begin the identification of and plans to avoid or overcome all access and egress bottleneck points. This should be a routine item on their regular agenda.
R^mmendation 4: The Company’s Loss Control Managerwill become certified as soon as soon as possible.
Recommendation 5: The Company is in agreement with this recommendation except the language as amendod in article 21.01 (b) in the collective agreement
The Company appreciates the Union’s offerof it’s safety training resourceand will utilize this helpwhen it is appropriate to do se.
Yours truly,
T. James Whittal
Manager, Labour Relations/Safety
43
Jllle 1, 2001
Mr. Bob Martin
^President, Local 459
United Food & ^Ganmrnercial Workers
261 Erie Street ^South
^Leami^ngton, Ontario
N8H 3C4
DearMr. Martin:
As a result of cu	d^^^m of your concerns ^^^ing retiree benefits, the
^Can^pany \!Viii agree to the folJowing changes:
Article XVI ... (o) Plant Unit; (p) Office & Technical Unit; (p) Fatfctory Office & Quality Unit
Sick and Welfare Plan - Retiree Benefits
Dental: Effective January 1, 2002 • 1991 0.0.A EffectiveJanuary 1, 2003 = 1992 0.D.A
Vision: Effective 1, 2002 the Companywill provide a basic vision care plan; One (1) pair every two (2) years; $175 every two (2) years.
Yours truly,
T. Whittal
Manager, Labour Relations/Safety
44
June 1, 2001
Mr. Bob Martin
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H3C4
Dear. Mr. Martin
As discussed during negotiations, if more than one, ten-day shutdown is required during a calendaryear, the Companywill schedule ty plant wide seniority for those departments required to work, subject to skill merit, and ability. Groups identified in Section 7(c) (i), 7(c) (ii), and 7(d) of the Rules & Regulations Governing the Operation of Job Grading and Job Grading Rates will not be affected.
Yours truly,
T. James Whittal Human Resources Manager
45
June 1, 2001
Mr. Bob Martin
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H 3C4
Dean Mr. Martin
As a result of our recent negotiations, this confirms that we, the Company and the Union, have agreed to discontinue the Incentive Plan also referred to as the Gainsharing plan effective May 01, 2001.
Yours truly,
T. James Whittal Human Resources Manager
46
April 23, 2001
Mr. Martin
President, Local 4 59
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H3C4
^D:ar-.Mrr. Martin
As discussed during negotiations the O:.l[pan the Can Fill Dep^artmentto be "Preferred"positions.
in
Spaghetti F iller ^^^tor SpaghettiDough I^rker Ravioli Press ^^taror Ravioli Flour l^tyer Ravioli Meat Mixer
positions will te preferred because of the critical to maintain the consistency and quality of the pasta-based products.
The Company and	will follow the existing process for posting these positions as
soonas possible after ratification of the agreement.
truly,
T. James ^Whittal
Resources Manager
47
FOR:
EXECUTED at LEAMINGTON, ONTARIO this I f._dday of	/
H. J HEINZ COMPANY CF CANADA LTD.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIALWORKERS, A.F.L. C.1.0. C.L.C. LOCAL459
OK
	APPENDIX "A" - UFCW SALARY JOB GRADE RATES						
TVJfiifiM OFFICE & TECHNICAL UNIT COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT EXPIRES: APRIL 30, 2004 MAY 1/01 RATES INCREASED BY .65/HOUR AND .12/HR COLA FOLD-IN MAY 1/02 RATES INCREASED BY .SO/HOUR MAY 2/03 RATES INCREASED BY .55/HOUR							
BASED ON 37.5 HRS/WK		EFFECTIVE DATE		PROGRESSIONSCHEDULE ,			
JOB GRADE	INCREASE PER WEEK			AFTER60 WRKG RAYS	6 MOS	1	 9MOS	1	 12 MOS
1	28.88	MAY 1/01		492.39	711.77		
	18.75	MAY 1/02		"t 511.14	730.52		
	20.65	MAY 1/03		531.79	751.17		
2							
	28.88	MAY 1/01		502.52	723.39		
	18.75	MAY 1/02		521.27	742.14		
	20.65	MAY 1/03		541.92	762.79		
							
							
	18.75	MAY 1/02		530.27	754.51		
	20.65	MAY 1/03		550.92	775.16		
							
4	28.88	MAY 1/01		523.52	742.14	750.02	
	18.75	MAY 1/02		542.27	760.89	768.77	
	20.65	MAY 1/03		562.92	781.54	789.42	
							
5	28.88	MAY 1/01		538.51	749.27	765.39	
	18.75	MAY 1/02		557.26	768.02	784.14	
	20.65	MAY 1/03		577.91	788.67	804.79	
							
6	28.88	MAY 1/01		545.64	757.14	774.39	785.21
	18.75	MAY 1/02		564.39	775.89	793.14		804TT
	20.65	MAY 1/03		585.04	796.54	813.79	824.61
							
7	28.88	MAY 1/01		553.52	766.14	784.14	808.8\
	18.75	MAY 1/02		572.27	784.89	802.89		smr
	20.65	MAY 1/03		592.92	805.54	823.54	848.25
							
							
LEADRA ND SHIP	T^OUR		NIC	0.31	" 0.31	0.31	0.3'
	[■ PREMIUM		May 1/01	0.49	0.49	0.49	0.49
			May 2/01	0.54	0.54	0.54	0.54
			May 3/01	0.59	0.59	0.59	0.59
RD SHIFT PREMIUM			May 1/01	0.71	0.71	0.71	0.71
			May 2/01	0.76	0.76	0.76	0.76
			May 3/01	0.81	0.81	0.81	0.81
note: prior to May 1 /98, 65 woridng days were required before progression schedule rates applied 1:\ratechng\o&toso1 Human Resources Dept., Leaminat^^^ June 11/01							