H>J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD
AND
LOCAL 469
A.F.L. Q.I.Q. C.L.C.
OFFICE AND TECHNICAL UNIT
Expiree April 30,1998

THIS AGREEMENT made and entered Into at Leamington, Ontario as of the 27th day of September. 1994.
BETWEEN:
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD (hereinafter referred l o as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
- and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 459 A.F.L. C.1,0. C.L.C.
(hereinafter referredlo as the ■Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
INDEX
Article
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
Pages
Purpose..................................  1
Recognition................................1
Union Security...........................  2
Wages......................................3
Shill Premiums............................ 4
Hours of Work............................. 5
Holidays...................................7
Reporting Allowance and Call-In Pay....... 8
Seniority................................  9
Vacations.................................15
Management Rights........................ 18
No-Strike Provision.......................19
Grievance Procedure.......................20
Arbitration.............................. 23
Leave of Absence for Union Representatives 24
Sick and Welfare Pian.....................25
Uniforms..................................26
Bulletin Boards...........................26
19
20 21 22
Rest Periods.....
Safety and Health
General...............
Termination and Renewal
Appendix "A"..........
Appendix “B”..........
Appendix "C"..........
Appendix "D"..........
Appendix "E"..........
Aonendix "F"..........
27
27
27
26
2£
36
33
34 3E 30
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
1.01	If isthe purposed this Agreementto maintain and pro. mote harmonious relations hip between the Company and its era ployees, to set forth hours of work, rates of pay and other conditions of employment and to provide an amicable method ot settling any difference or grievance which may arise relating to conditions of employment.
BECQQNITtQN
ARTICLE it
2.01	The	ny recognizes the Union at ie <	>i\
collective oar aining representative for all office, cler	ar
technical . t its Leamington operations, save ana e cept Assistant Department Heads,those abovethe rankof Assistant Department Head, Buyers, secrelariesto each of the General Manager, Leamington Factory Operations, Manager Leamington Financial Operations and the Manager of Quality Control, sons employed in the Human Resources Department, the Heal department, the salary payroll department and the agricultural department, the senior labour analyst, food chemist, recipe procedures technologist, research nutritionist, programmers and systems analysts, persons employed in the factory, persons regularly emDloyed for not more than twenty-four hours Der week and students employed during the school vacation period.
2.02	The term “employee'1 when used in this Agreement refers only to persons employed by the Company within the bargaining unit described in this article and who have acquired sen iority as set out in Sub-Article 9.02.
2.03	The term “probationary employee’1 when used in this Agreement refers only to persons who have not completed the probationary period prescribed in this Agreement and who have not acquired seniority as set out in Sub-Article 9.02.
2.04	The only provisions of this Agreement which apply to probationary employees are those provisions which are specifically applicable to probationary employees and such provisions shall only apply to probationary employees to the extent specifically provided
in such provisions.
1
2.05	Whenever the singular or masculine are used in this Agreement, the same shall be construed as meaning the plural or the feminine where the context or the parties hereto sa require.
ABIICLE III
UNION SECURITY
3.01	All employees who are now members of the Union or who may later become members,, shall remain members in good standing during the lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
3.02	All employees, who may hereafter become employees
in the bargaining unit, shall immediately, upon expiration of sixty-five (65) consecutive working days with the Company, or after sixty-five (65) intermittent working days within a period of five (5) consecutive months but	worked In of
such months, became, and remain members in good standing of the Union during the lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
3.03	The Company will furnish to the Union, every month, a list of employees with more than fifty (50) and less than fifty-five (55) consecutive working days with tne Company.
3.04	The Company wiii dsduct union dues from the pay of
each member of the Union when so authorized by such members in writing on a form acceptable to the Company. Tne Company will also deduct the eouivalent of union dues from the oav of each employee upon	of the probationary	Such
deduction shall be made monthly from the employee s first pay each calendar month and the amounts so deducted shall be transmitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union wfthfn twelve (12) days following each deduction. UDon written notice from the Financial Secretary of the Union,	agrees to deduct any as-
sessment which may be levied from time to time.
3.05	(a) Six months advance notice of permanent plant closure in order to set up an Adjustment Committee.
3.05	(b) The Company will provide the Union three (3) months advance notice of partial plant closure In order to set up an adjustment committee. This shall apply only to a permanent layoff of fifty (50) or more seniority employees. This section shall not apply to seasonal operations.
2
WAGES
ARTICLE IV.
4.01	V\fegeswill be paid in accordance with the Wage Schedule ot Appendix "A",
4.02	Promotions: When an employee is promoted to a clas-silication in a higher grade he will move to tne next higher rate within his new grade with a minimum Increase of $15,00 per week, effective at the time of his promotion. However, this rate cannot exceed the maximum rate of the job on the wage schedule.
4.03	A cost of living allowance will be paid in accordancewith
Appendix “C\
4.04	(a) When an employee temporarily replaces another employee In a higher grade during absence for vacations, Illness, etc., no adjustment is made unless the replacement period extends for a period ol one week in which case, after completing such week, the employee’s rate will be adjusted to the next higher rate to his present rate within his new job grade with a minimum increase of $15.00 per week, retroactive to the commencement of such job; however, this rate cannot exceed the maximum rate of the Job on the wage schedule. For weeks in which there is only one paid holiday during the replacement, the said holiday will count as a day worked in regard to rate adjustment On c> impletion of their replacement period, the employee reve to iiii regular a te
(b)	When an employee has once qualified foi the job rate by progressing through the salary progression schedule he/she does not have to requalify if pis ;ed on the same job within a two year period.
4.06	Job titles and grades applicable to each group shall be available in the respective groups.
4.07	All employees required to serve on a jury shall for the period of such service, be compensated for the difference between the daily amount received by them as jurors and seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours at the rate paid the employee the last working day before serving jury duty.
3
4.08	An employee will be granted a leave of absence from
work as requi red of three days In The case of absence due fo death of the employee's spouse, child, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, member of his step lamlly, grandparent, grandparent-ln-law, and grandchild. Such employee will be paid seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day at the rate he received on the last day worked before such leave for each work day (Monday through Friday) that falls within the immediate three (3) calendar day period following death of the employee's relative as specified above. In no case will an employee be paid for more than three (3) work days nor will an employee be paid for Saturday or Sunday under any circumstances. If the employee cannot attend the funeral, only one work day will be granted provided satisfactory evidence of death Is furnished the Company. An employee will be granted on the same basis a leave of absence from work as required of one dav in case of absence due to death of the emolov-ee's	son-In-law, brother-in-lawor
4.09	Employees shall receive their pay Thursdays.
4.10	It is agreed that any employee who has been In the employ of the company lor a periodof sixty-five (65) days of actual work within a periodof one year and who has been laid off and rehiredwithinoneyearfromlhe date of lay-off will receive, on rehiring, the rate of pay which was being received by him at the time of lay-on,together with any increasesagreed to during the periodof lay-off. Providedthat, in any case, the rate of pay to Be receivedby such an employee, upon rehiring, shall not exceed the rate then being paid to employees who have completed 65 days of actual work.
SHIFT PREMIUMS
ARTICLE V
5.01	(a) A shift premium equal to 3 percentof the base rate (Factory Grade I) shall be paid for all hours worked after 3:00 p.m. on a regular afternoon (second) shift and a shift premium equal to 4.5 percent ol the rate ry Grade I) hours prior to 8:00 a,m, on a regular night (third) shift. (The shift premium to be rounded to the closest cent.) To qualify for a shift premium on the night (third) shift, an employee must work the majority of his standard seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours on that shift, prior to 8:00 a.m.
To qualify lor a lull shift premium on the afternoon (second)
4
shift or night (third) shift, an employee must work fifty percent or more of h e standard seven and one-half (71/2) hours on his respective Shift.
(b) .Notwithstanding the above, the language will be inoperative until May 1, 1998, Present amounts will remain until then with no increase in premiums.
ARTICLED
HOURS OF WORK
6.01	(a) Hours of work shall be scheduled by the Company In accordance with its requirements.
fb) It is agreed and understood that Monday commences at 12:00 a.m. (Sunday midnight).
6.02	(a) Time and one-half shall be paidfor all hoursworked in excessof seven and one-hali (7-1/2) hours per day or thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours per week, Monday through Friday. Oniy overtimeauthorlzed by supervisionwill be paid. Theovertime rate will be determined by dividing the weekly salary by thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours. Overtime will be calculated and paid to the closest quarter(1/4) of an hour.
(b)	Tomato Seasonal Continental Work Week
8 weak duration only All departments(aU units)
5 x 7-1/2 hour Shifts starting any day cf the week/5 days on, 2 days off.
All hours In excess of 7-1/2 hours per shift (37*1/2 hours per week) will be paid et one end one-half times the regular rate.
Employees required to work on the 6th or 7th day will be paid at e rate ofone and one-halftimes for all hours worked.
The number cf limes the affected employees will be
5
expected to work Saturday/Sunday at regular rate will be limited to 5 times out ot the 8 week period. This Is unlikely to Impact more than 200 employees.
During the season, It Is agreed that the 6th and 7th consecutive workday shall be treated as a Saturday and Sunday with respect to the hours of work and overtime provision In the Collective Agreement with the exception that the 7(h day will be paid at the rate ot time and one-half for all hours worked, (rather than double time).
The Unlon/Menagement Committee will meet to develop a detailed schedule for the affected employees, toie posted by June 1,1994.
6.03	Timeandone-halfshallbe paid for all hours worked on Saturday and double time for all hours worked on Sunday.
6.04	When the Company decides that overtime work Is necessary, throughoutthe period of Monday to Friday, Inclusive, it will beftrst assigned to employeesonthe same shift who are performing the work required and then by shift seniority with In the existing overtime group arrangement, provided they are ready and available for such work. when overtimework Is required on Saturday, Sunday or a paid holiday, it will be allocated by seniority on a shift basis withintne exlstina overtimearoup arrangement, provided the employees concernedhave the necessaryskUl, merit and ability to perform the work required,
6.05	In any week In which a paid holiday as provided by this Agreement falls, the Company shall pay time and one-hall for all hours worked in excess of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day or thirty (30) hours per week
6.06	Ifnotenoughemployeeshaveagreedtocome Into work from the existing overtime group then the unit seniority list will be used, in descending order ofseniority unlii enough people are found,
subject to skill, merit and ability.
6
HOLIDAYS
ARTICLE Vil
7.01	(a)	Employees other than probationary employees who work
on the day upon which any of the following holidays Is observed, namel
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic H >lida'
.abour Day Thanksgiving D Christmas Day Boxing Dav
shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked In addition to the holiday allowance of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours as provided In Daragraph 7.02. These payments shall be computed on the basisof the rate applicable to the job performed
(b) An additional day as determined by the Company will be granted as a recognized holiday during the Christmasseason.
(c)	A holidayallowanceofsevenand one-half(7-1/2) hours will be paid tor the last working day prior to Christmas Day and the last working day prior lo New Year's Day subject to the conditions set out In paragraph 7.02 and 7.03.
(d)	Each of the holidays will be observed Monday through Friday.
7.02	Employees Other than probationary employees not i& quiredto workon such recognized holiday shall receive a holiday allowance of seven and one-naif (71/2) hoursal the rate paid the employee the lastworkingday before the holiday, providedhe works his lull scheduled working day immediately preceding and his full schedule working day immediately following such holiday unless absent for any ofthe following reasons:
(I) personal lllness(proven by a Doctor'scertificate acceptable to the Company);
(!i) quarantinedby order of a qualifiedhealth authority;
7
(lil) death In the immediatefamily:
(Iv) compulsory Court attendance as a witnessor on jury duty;
(v) if absent up to five (5) working days when written leave of absence therefor has been granted by the employee's Department Head:
rvj) absent on bonaflde Union Business up to ten (10) working days.
7.03	Inorderto qualifyforpay forthe holidays as above, the employee's scheduled working day herein before referred to must fall within three working days before and within three working days after the said holiday (or within six working days before and within six working davs after the said holiday wnere paragraph 7.02 (I) applies) and be worked.
REPORTINCLALLOWANCE AND CALL-IN PAY
B.01 An employee who isscheduledor notifiedto reportfor work and who does report for work on time shall be entitled to a minimum of four hours straight-time pay, unless previously notified by the Company not to report for work, provided that no reporting allowance shall be Daid for anv period of time worked by an em-ployeewithin his	shift. Provided . that if
mum reporilna oav as above provided shall nofapply where failure to furnish	to	beyond the	control.
8	An employee who is called and returns to work alter he
has completed his scheduled shift and has left the premises of the dnmnanv shall ha naid ranardlass of the amount Of time worked.
ARTICLE VIII
not less Ihan four
pay
e
9.01	Seniority means length of continuous ie vice with the Company. it vi'imies ii'io mrrpiuyuu iu preference in cases of decrease or increase >f the worklna force
9.02	An employee shall acquire seniority after completing the probationary period of sixty-five (65) consecutive working days with the Company or after sixty-five (65) intermittent working days within a period of five (s) consecutive months but without necessarilu ing w crke in e ch of such months and when so acquir empli yee i rity commences from the date first hired.
9.03	Seniority will be applied separately in the following groups, subject to such change in the future as the interests of the business may require an i s d to by the Union:
1.	Food Research
2.	Engineering
3.	Purchasing
4.	Traffic
5.	Production Planning, Scheduling and Supply
6.	Information Services
7.	Factory Controller
8.	Administration
9.04	(a) A new employee's seniority applies In the group to which he Is assigned at the end of his probationary period and continues in that group until the employee is transferred to another group.
,(b) An employee who [iss completed his probationary period may file a grievance claiming he has beeh improperly classitled.
9,05	The Company will post in suitable locations, a seniority list for each group, showing the name and seniority of each em-ployeeandwill revise the list every six (6) months as required. The Local will be provided with copiesof the seniority lists.
9.06	(a) The Company recognizes the Importance of seniority as a factor to be considered along with skill, ability and require, ments of the job in respect of transfers, demotions, promotions, temporary layoffs and recalls to work thereafter within each
9
separate group and when skill, ability and requirements of the job are relatively eaual between emnlovees. then arouo seniority Is rec i, t as }h (re rallij g factor lr the making'of a selection
(b)	In the application of paragraph 9.06(a), the time spent in filling a temporary vacancy shall not result In an employee being given preference ov r employees who normally perform the job. "
9.01	(a1 In the case of layoff® other than temporary or for a temporary shutdown, t j foil >w r ced shall iddIv
(i)	Probationary employees shall be laid off first;
(II) Thereafter, employees shall be laid off on the basis of the employee's chronological time of hiring, provided that the employee has the necessary skill, ability and requirements ot the job to perform the required work. However, this paragraph does not apply to the technical employees of the Food Research, Engineering Groups and Computer Operators which shall be governed bv the provisions of paragraphs!) .03 9.06; '
(iii) In the application ol Section (ii) above, the redundant employee shall exercise their departmental and group seniority, and then office-wide seniority above the job of mailperson,provided he/she is abletoperform the work.
It said employee haslowest.................,	..
will then replace a mall person subject to seniority and being able to perform the work. The employees that are displaced by a redundant employee, will follow the regular bumping procedure.
(b)	Employees shall be recalled In the inverse order of being laid off, provided that the employee has the necessary skill ability and requirements of the Job to perform the required work
9.08	In case of temporary layoffs of not longer than live (5)
to the provisions of paragraph 9.06" However, [fa temporary layof occurs due to an emergency, breakdown or a condition beyond the control of the ComDanv, seniority will not aDPlv on anv basis for £
period of within two wo’rklng days.
10
9.09	(a) The term “vacancy” for the purposes of this Article shall be defined as an opening In the group seniority list where the number of persons reoulred bv the Company exceeds the number employed therein, due toanemployee'stransfer, death, retirement, termination of employment, or an opening of a new department ora new group, and the duration of which Is expected to exceed 65 working days. The vacancy will be posted for three working days throughout the office. Applications for transfer to a posted vacancy maybe made in writing by employees throughout the office who hive more than two years1 seniority.
(b)	In making a transfer, seniority will govern where skill, merit and ability are comparatively equal, it being understoodthat the Company will not be obligated to select an applicant If the applicant Is not able to meet the normal requirements of the job. Nothing herein contained will prevent the Company from filling such vacancy with a candidate from outside the bargaining unit if none of the applicants from within the unit possess the necessary skill, merit and abilit
(c)	The job vacated by anemployeetransferred underthese provisions will be posted but any subsequent vacancy resulting therefrom will not be subject to posting.
(d)	Anemployeewhoailstofillthe requirements of a posted vacancy, at the option of the Company, will be transferred tack to the group he worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he would have continued to work in that group except for his selection to the posted vacancy, or to some other aroup. Such employee may not apply for the same posted vacancy for e period of twelve months.
(e)	In the case of arbitration, not more than one employee may claim an improperselectlon for the Same postedvacancy.
9.10	(a) An employee who is transferred from one group to another group as a result of his own request, acquires no group seniority in that new group for a period of six months eixcept over employees brought into the group after the date of his transfer, but if retained in that group after a period of six nonths, the >loy ee’s total seniority shall be transferred to the new group.
(I Where tf transfer of a person In the employ of the Com-iny fr« n outside 1 9 bargaining unit Into the bargaining unit Is
11
mutually agreed upon between the Company and Union, such person (employee) acquires no seniority wiinin Tne bargaining unit tor a period of one year except over employees brought Into the bargaining unit after the dale ot his/her transfer, but if retained in the bargaining unit after a period of one year, the employee’s bargaining unit seniority will be based upon his/her total service with the Company.
(c)	In the application of (b) above, an employee who fails to fill the requirements of the position within one year from transfer into the bargaining unit, at the option of the Company, will be transferred back to the group he/she worked in Immediately preceding the transfer if he/sne would have otherwise continued to work In that group except for his/her transfer or to some other group within his/her original bargaining unit for placement, if any on the basis of skill, ability and seniority.
(d)	In the application of (b) above, for the purpose of lay offs within the period of one year following the employee’s transfer into the bargaining unit from outside the bargaining unit, at the option of the company, will be transferred back to the group he/sne worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he/she would have otherwise continued to work in that group except for his/her transfer, or to some other group within his/her original bargaining unit for placement, if any, or the basis of skill, ability and seniority.
(a)	The Company and Union agree, where practical, the Company will try and place employees on sick leave or compensation, on jobs they are capable of performing. If necessary, in the assignment of this work, the employees must agree to waive their seniority rights. This procedure will be implemented on a trial basis lor the term of the agreement.
9.11	(a) An employee who Is transferred from one group to another group by the Company acquires no seniority in the new group for a period of three months, except over employees brought into the group after the date of his transfer but if retained in that group after a period of three months, hie group seniority, based upon his total service with the Company, applies in such new group. However, an employee, who is transferred by the Company to a new group as a result of a reduction in the number of employees In his former group due to a technological change, shall acquire seniority in the new group as of date of transfer.
12
(b)	in the application of the above, an employee who Is rendered redundant crdisplaoed from his/her Job as result at technological change shall exercise their department and group seniority and then office-wide seniority above the job of mall person, provided he/she is able to perform the work. If said employee has lowest office-wide seniority, he/she will then replace a mall person subject to seniority and being able to perform the work. Tne employees that are displaced by a redundant employee, will follow the regular bumping procedure
(c)	Notwithstanding the above displacement procedures, the Employer and the Union, at any time, can formulate special measures to modify the above displacement procedures to take into account the desire ol the parties to minimize the impact of displacement or to deal with particular operational considerations.
9.12	When an employee alter being transferred is laid off, such layoff shall not interfere with the accumulationof seniority in the new group. When recalled such an employee will have preference over employees with less group seniority to come back into the group he was working at tne time of layoff. When recalled, the accumulation of seniority will continue until one year after the date of the first transfer, or three months, whichever Is applicable.
9.13	(a) An employee transforredloany position withinthe Company excluded from the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement and subsequently transferred back to a position in the bargaining unit within a period of one year, shall retain his lull seniority within the bargaining unit and shall be considered to have been continuously employed therein, Any other employee transferred from a position within the Company outside the bargaining unit to a position covered by this Agreement, shall iire seniority in the bargaining unit as of the date of his transl
9.14	In the event of a temporary shutdown of one or more groups, group seniority will apply to tne employees involved with respect to layoffs of two weeks duration or less, provided that this may only be applied once per calendar year to the same employees. If any of the paid holidays under paragraph 7.01 occur during such a shut-down, employees who are laidoff under this provision shall receive holiday allowance in accordance with paragraph 7.02, provided they work the full scheduled working day within three working days immediately preceding and within Three working days immediately following the shut-down period Employees who
13
continue to work during a shut-down shall qualify for holiday allow ance in accordance with paragraphs 7.02 and 7,03.
9.15	Leave of absence, if granted in writing bythe Company, will not affect an employee's seniority rating. An employee may, under s eclal circumstances, receive a maximum of three weeks leaveofabsence through his Department Head.
9.16	An employee loses seniority when the employee:
(a) Quits or resigns;
(bl Js discharged lor cause:
jcj In case of an employee with less than two year's seniority is laid off lor lack of work for a continuous period In excess of the length of hlsseniority with the Company.
In the case of employees with seniority of two years or morels laid off for lackof work, fora continuous period in excess ol two years;
(p) Fails to report for work when called without a valid reason; or
(e)	Falls to report lor work within seventy-two (72) hours alter being sent a written notice by registered mail addressed to the employee's last address known to the Company, advising that all seniority rights shall terminate ifthe employee fails to report within seventy-two (72) hoursof such notice, unlessthe employee obtains a written extension of the time within which to report within seventy-two (72) hoursof such notice.
9 17 (a) A pregnant employee may apply tor d take a leave ol ssence at the end of five months of pregnancy and shall be reemployed with full seniority rights provided she reports to workwithlr two months after the birth, unless she produces a medical certificate satisfactory to the Company showing that she Is unable to dc so.	'	’
(b) (n the case of adoption of a pre-school child, the mother or father may apply for leave of absence of three (3) months effective the date of receipt of the child and shall be entitled to be re employed with full seniority rights at termination of such leave.
9.18	(a) The local union president, chief steward andchairper-sonshalli have the privilege of working on the day shift,
14
.	(b) The firstvice-president, assistant chief steward andper-
son replacing the chairperson shall havelhe privilege of working on the day shift if the president, chief steward or chairperson is respectively absent for extended periodsoftime such as vacations, conventions. etc.
(c) The chief steward or his/her replacement will be paid at a rate of pay determined by his/her classification or years of service.
9.19	An employee who presentsa medical certificate showing that he has been ill or displaced by accident Shall maintain his seniority rights during the period cf such illness or disability.
9.20	The Company will endeavorto placean employee having long and faithful service who has become unable to handle his Job in another job which he iscompetentto perform.
VACATIONS
ABIIOULX
10.01	Each regular employee shall be entitled to a vacation its length to be determined as follows:
Annual Plant Shutdowns
(a)	2 weeks in July
2 weeks in December
Statutory Holidays will be included in the 2 week Shutdown in December.
Posted by February 1st indicating what departments will be shutdown.
If after February 1st changes are required that necessitate departments working, volunteers will be sought by Department seniority and then by Plant seniority.
Vacationsmust betaken underthe following formula;
ireeks vacation tory shutdown
15
4 weeks or mors - must use 3 weeks within the matv-
datory shutdown
There will be no plantshutdown InJuly ot 1994
(b) If employed less than ten (10) monthsduringthe previ-' ous fiscal year, one (1) day of vacation during the second fiscalyearforeacnlullcalendarmonthOfservicein
tho previous IIqqaI uoar'
) if employed ten (id) months or more but less than one full fiscal year during the previous fiscal year; two (?) weeks of vacation in the second fiscal vear
(d)	Du rl ng the fiscal year in Which the nmnlnusfl nnlohratfij his second (2nd) and each subseq ent anniversarv d le of service, each regular employer shall receive two 2) weeks of vacation with pay;
(e)	During !he fiscal year in which the employee celebrate! his fifth (5th) and each subsequent anniversarv date o service, each regular employee shal receive fhree (3) weeks of vacation with pay;
rf) During the fiscal year in which the employee celebrates his tenth (tOth) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regularemployee shall receive four (4) weeks of vacation with pay:
(n) During the fiscal year in which the employee celebrates w hiseighteenth(lflth) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, eachregufaremployeeshalireceive live
(5)	weeks of Vacation with pay;
(h) During the fiscal year in which the employee celebrates histwenty-fifth (25th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regularemployee shall receive six
(6)	weeks of vacation with pay
10.02	Five (5) working days shall constitute one week.
10.03	Vacations with pay shall be calculated as follows:
(a) Employees entitled to two weeks or less vacation ■ 4 percent of earningsforthe preceding fiscal year;
16
(b)	Employeesentitled to three weeks vacation ■ 6 percent of earningsforthe precedingfiscal year;
(c)	Employeesentitled to fourweeks vacation- 8 percentof earnings forthe precedingfiscal year:
(0) Employees entitled to five weeks vacation -10 percent of earnings for the pre ceding fiscal year;
(e)	Employees entitled to six weeks vacatioi - 12 p of earnings for the pr« ceding fiscal year;
(f) Vacation pay shall be calculated as follows:
1,	If the employee hasworked50Q or more hoursduring the precedingfiscal year, 2 percent of earningsforsucfi preceding fiscal year for each week of vacation entitlement, orine equivalentof the employee's regularhourly wage rate lor a 37-1/2 hour week, whichever is greater;
2.	Ifthe employee has worked lassthan 500 hoursduring the preceding fiscal year, 2 percent of the employee's earningsforsuch precedingfiscal yearloreach week of vacation entitlement;
3,	in calculatingthe time worked, absencewhlle receiving Workers’ Compensation, weak indemnity or casual Union business, paid holidays and vacations will be clad. Ited as timed workedontne basisof seven and one-half {7-1/2} hours for each day the employee would otherwise have regularly workad, provided that the employee has workad during such preceding fiscal year.
10.04	(a) When a paid holiday occurs while an employee is on vacation, he will be paid holiday pay in addition to regularvacation pay.
(b) (i) Employees will have the Option of taking an additional day off on either the Friday preceding or the Monday following their vacation If a paid holiday occurs during their regular vacation period. The employees must notify supervision of their intentions erior to the commencement of their vacation,
17
(ii)	Employees whose vacationmoniesare considerably re-ducedbecauseolabsencetheprecedin year, mayelect to take a reduced vacationtime .	_	.	.
equivalent to the amount of their vacation monies. The amount of vacation time to be taken Is to be reviewed by the Human Resources Department, subject to legal requirements.
10.05	Fmnloyees entitled to a vacation will take it when convenient to the (jompany, Exceptions to this policy will only be grantee under special circumstances and must be approved by the Vice' Presidentconcerned,
10.06	When, practicable, vacations will be scheduled as le-quesied by the employees in the employee seniority order except that efficient operation ol the Cnrr»'='“/ shall he lirst rnnsirlarntinn and the Company shall have the right to assign vacations on that basis.
10.07	An eligibleemployee upon being laid off Indetinitsly without having received the paid vacation provided under this Article, will receive vacation psy accumulatedto the employee's credit at the endofihe previous ffeoa) year, unlessthe employee notifies the Company in writing at the time §1 ISfOff that he prefers to postpone such paid vacafionuntll later in'he fiscal yearinwhichhelslald off. Vacation pay will be made by cheque.
10.08	Upon termination of employment, an employee will receive vacation pay accumulatedto his credit.
ARTICLED
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
1 ■( q-j The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(I) Maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(ii) Hire, classify, direct and lay-off;
(ili) Discharge, transfer, promote, demote, suspend or otherwise discipline employees subject to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance as herein provided;
18
|(iv)	Make and alter from time to time, rules and regulations
to be observed by the employees provided they are not inconsistentwlth the provisions of this Agreement;
(v) Generallyto manage the industrialenterpriseinwhlch the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the right to pian operations, to determine services to be performed and the methods, procedures and equipment in connection therewith, the engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials and parts to be Incorporated In the products produced, and extension, or cessation of operations.
11.02	It isunderstoodthat the causes for which the Company may summarily suspendemployees (provided that the suspension will not preclude the Companyfrom discharging the employee) in. elude the following:
(I) intoxication;
(II) disorderly conduct:
(ill) insubordination;
(lv) unauthorizedabsenteeism;
(v) neglect of duty;
(vi) carelessness endangering the safety of others;
(vli) theft or destruction of Company property.
11.03	The terminatamof any employee without seniority may be for any reason as determineef by the Company.
11,04	The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised In a mannerconsistent with the provisionsofthis Agreement.
NO SIB1KE PROVISION
ARTICLE XU
12.01	The Union agreesto accept and abide by all the terms and conditionsof this Agreement and during itsterm will not permit
19
its i n imbers to engage In any walk-out, sit-down, slow-down or othi r Interlerence with or Interruption of work and that it will not call, countenance or otherwise encourage any walk-out or strike. Any employee violating this provision shall be subject to disciplinary action as determined by the Company. The Company agrees to accept and abide by all the terms and conditions of this Agreement and during this term will not lock out the employees.
ABTICLE*1II
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
13.01	The Unionwill appoint, from among employees who have completedtheirprobationary period, and the Companywill recognize eight (8) Stewards and a Committee comprised of not more than three (3), ono of whom shall be the Chairpersonof the Committee.
13.02	(a) Each Steward or Committeeman shall be permitted to function as such only as provided herein, It is understood that the Stewards and Committeemen have their regular work lo perform on behalf of the Company and will spend only such time during working hours as is necessary to service grievances as provided under the grievance procedure. If it is necessary to service a grievance as authorized by this Agreement, they will not leave their regular work without first obtaining the permission of their Department Head. It is also understood that a Steward shall not enter another Department without first obtaining the permission of ihe Department Head of such Department and notifying him as to the nature of the grievance and tne personnel involved. The Steward, upon leaving a Deparlment after servicing a grievance, will notify the Department Heed thereof, and upon resuming his regular work, after servicing a grievance in his own or another Department will report to his own Department Head. Whenever, in the opinion of the Department Head concerned, more than a reasonable period of time has been taken by a Steward in servicing a grievance, the Steward's Department Head may decline to approve payment to such Steward for such excess time
(b) Ail grievances shall be dealt with during working hours where possible without loss of time or pay to the parties involved.
13.03	Whenan employee is being disciplined for any reason, he may elect at his discretion to have a Onion representativepresent during any interview.
20
13.04	The Local Shall notify the Company In writingfrom lime to time of the names of the Committeemen and Stewards.
13.05	The Company will supply the Chairman of the Committee with a list of the Department Heads and Assistant Department Heads excluded from the provisions of this Agreement as aforesaid and will notify the chalrms i of ar / chan ss i itc
13.06	it is understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given his Department Head an opportunity to adjust his complaint which shall be presented by the employee, who shall be accompanied by the Group Steward, to his Department Head within three full working days after the circumstances giving rise to the complaint have originated or occurred. If an employee has an unsettled complaint, It may be taken up as a grievance within three full working days after receiving the Department Head's decision in the followiu i manner and sequence:
Step No. 1
etween the employee, who may be accompanied by the Group Steward, and his Department Head. The grievance shall be presented in writing and the decision of the Department Head shall be given in writlna within two full working days following the presentation of the grievance;	“	*
Fallingsettlement. then:
Step-No. 2
The matter may be presented in writing within two working days to the Human Resources Department and the Human Resources Department's written decision given within not more than three working daysfollowlng receiptof the written grievance at this step;
Failingsettlement, then:
Step No. 3
Within five full working days following the decision underStep 2, the grievance shall be submitted as a part of the agenda for a meeting betweenthe Company'srepresentatlves and members of the Union Committee, not exceeding five in number. An International Representative of the Union may be present at such
21
meeting. The decision of the Company’s representatives shall be given In writing within five full working days of the said meeting.
13.07	Failing settlement of any difference between the parties under Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of thli Agreement, Including any question as to whether a matter Is arbi trable. such difference or question may be taken to arbitration a: provided in Article XIV. If no written request for arbitration Is received within ten working days after the final decision under the Grievance Procedure is given, it shall be deemed to I ave been settled or abandoned
13.08	ny difference arising directly between the Company and the Union may be submitted by either party at Step No. 3 of the G rlevance Procedure and time limits orovided thereby shall aooro-
prlately apply to both parties.
13.09	The aggrieved employee may be present during each step ol the Grievance Procedure and at Arbitration.
13.10	When a group of employees has a complaint or grievance it shall first be taken up under Step No. 2 and they may be represented by the appropriate Steward and not more than two employees.
13.11	Any adjustment arising under a settlement through the Grievance Procedure or under a decision of an Arbitration Board shall not t e made retroactive prior to the date the matter is first presented under the Grievance Procedure, except as to Improper classification or bookkeeping error involving an employee's earn Ings.
13.12	All decisions arrived at, between representatives of the Company and the representatives of fhe Union, at any step of the written Grievance Procedure, shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union and the employee or emplovees concerned. The Company shai) submit a written reply to each written grievance.
13.13	Failure of the Union or employees to comply with fhe lime limits in Step 1,2 and 3 above, shall be considered as acceptance of fhe last answer given, thus disposing of the grievance.
Failure ol the Company to comply with the time limits provided in Steps 1, 2 and 3 above shall be considered as refusal ol the request Involved in the grievance and immediate appealto the next
22
the other party upon written request.
13.14	At any step in this grievance procedure, the Executive Board ofthe Local Unionshall nave the final authority in respect to any aggrieved erppl lyee covert d by this Agreement, to decline to process a grievance, complaint, difficulty or dispute further If, in the judgement of the Executive Board, such grievance or dispute lacks merit or lacks justification under the terms of this Agreement, or has been adjusted or justified under the terms of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Executive Board. Once the aggrieved employee has been notified either by their steward or the Union Business Representative that their grievance is being dropped because of lack of merit, the aggrieved employee has fifteen calendar days to appeal that decision by sending a letter to the Union President requesting to appear before the Union Executive Board.
13.15	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Article and the provisions of Article XIV of this Agreement do not apply to probationary employees, nor shall the provisions of this Article or the provisions of Article XIV of this Agreement be available to the Union on behalf of any p obationa > employee.
ARBJIBAUQN
ARTICLE XIV
14,01	When eitherparty requeststhat any matter be submitted to arbitration as herein before provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, andatthB same time nominate an arbitrator, within five days thereafter the other party shall nominate an arbitrator; provided, however, that if such party fails to nominate an arbitrator as herein required the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall have power to effect such an appointment upon the application thereto bv the party invoking arbitration orooedure. The two arbitrators shall, within five days of the appointment of the latter of them, attempt to Select by agreement a Chairman of the Arbitration Board If they are unable to agree upon such a Chairman within such a period of live days, they shall then request the Ontario Labour Arbitration Commission to assist them in selecting an Impartial Chairman, providedthat the Chairman shall be selected trom otherthan
23
(he Civil Servi< e and shall be chosen having regard to his impartiality, his qualifications in interpreting collective agreements and his familiarity with Industrial relations.
14.02 No person may be been involved In an attempt to
1 as f ) >r si
arbitrator who has e the grti vance.
14.03	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous Steps of the Grievance Procedure,
14.04	The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision Inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
14.05	The jr :< ling s of the Arbitrs ti B< I will b xpe-dited bi tc pr le t eto, and the decision of the majority, or failing that, the Chairman of such Board, will be final and binding upon the parties hereto and the employee or employees concerned.
14.06	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of II arbitrator representing It, and the parties will jointly bear the < pense of the Chairman of the Arbi'fr* ti i Boa !,
ARTICLE XV
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION REPRESENTATIVES
15.01	(a) A leave of absence with seniority maintained will be grant)	for a period of two years to two employees (only	ne per
aei	snt) t any tim i accepting a full-time position with	» Union	ict 1 renewal upon mulual agreement of the C	npany
am the Jnic
For Ihe li terp
I tor union	sent itivc
absence1	imufi ted
benefits, e g rnsloise
tk d this clause tor leave of absence er	that the nmo spent on leave of
er	lypt,	but not for fringe
, unli
off with
if)
rl
illt
(b) Reasonable tin..	,
granted to Union representatives to attend bona fide Union business, provided competent replacements are available for those employees desiring to be away from work. Eve ry conside ration will
be given a UnionoTlicer lo makelt possible for him I oattend Union meetings.
24
ABIICLE-XVI
SICK AND WELFARE PLAN
16.01	The Companyagreestoassumethecostofthefollow-ing Sick and Welfare Plans with respect to each employee while in the active employment of the Company and who Is eligible for benefits thereunder:
(a)	Ontario Health Insurance Plan:
(b)	(i) A Weekly Indemnity Plan providing for a maximum
coverage of fifty-two weeks at a weekly indemnity allowance equivalent to the sixty-six and two-thirds (66-2/3\ percent Unemployment Insurance Commission Mian ror employees who qualify thereunder;
(il) Foremployeeswith lessthan one year of service with the Company, benefits provided will be the length of Company Service.
(iii)	Weekly indemnity paymentswill continue only while employeesare on (he active payroll:
(c)	(i) A regular employee who loses time through an injury,
sickness or disease, where Workers’ Compensation benefits are not payable and on producing a medical certificate, shall be paid his regular wages until he Is
engine tor his welfare indemnity;
(ii) Where Workers' Compensation Benefits accrue on account of Injury this will be in lieu of payment of wages by the Company:
(d)	All regular employees shall be entitled to Weekly Indemnity bene'i's immed'stely uoon reinstatement on the Davroll foil w/ir|p a U '.nn
(e)	Supplementary Hospitalization Plan to be continued:
(f)	TheThlrty-FIve (35) Cent Deductible Drug Lifetime prescription increasedfrom 30 daystoS months. Co-payment of 50% of dispensing fee on all prescriptions,
25
(a)
The presentSupplementary will remainln effect;
Healthcare Benefit Plan
The Company will provide a Dental Plan: 12 month check-ups
The present Long Term Total Dfsablffty Plan will re. main in effect;
(j)	Out-of-Provlnce/country emergency treatment;
(k)	The Company will provide a basic vision care plan; 1 pair every 2 years
(l)	Physiotherapy treatment covering visits to licensed
clinics,
16,02	The Pian documents lor all sick and welfare benefits provided under the agreement are an integral partof the collective agreement and are hereby incorporated by reference into it. The Company will provide tne Union with complete and current documents of all benefit plans.
ARTICLE Xyil
UNIFORMS
17.01	Will be Issued according to Company/Government
regulations.
ARTICLE XVIII
BULLETIN BOARDS
18.01	The Company agrees to maintain bulletin boards on which the Union may post notices cf the time and place of meetings, recreations, socialaffalrs andelections and names of off leers or accredited representatives and such other notices as may be approved by the Company. The Union shall deliver one copy of each such notice lo the Humeri Resources Department one-half hour prior to posting.
26
ARTICLE. XIX
19.01	Employees shall be entitled to two (2) rest periods of ten
(10) minutes each for each sevenand one-half (7-1/2) hour day.
ARTICLE XX
SAFELY. ANQiJEALffl
20.01	The Company will make as inabl provisions f ir the safety and health of the employees in Ihe Offk during their vork Ing hours
20.02	A Union representative will be appointed by the Union to the Company’s Safety Committee to attend safety meetings. The Company agrees to notify this Union Safety Representative of any lost time accidents in the bargaining unit.
20.03	TheCompany will pay fifty (50)dollarspercontractyear lo provide safety shoes to all employees who are requiredto wear them.
ARTICLE XXI
GENERAL
21.01	The chief steward will be furnished with a copy ofany employee report given to an employee.
21.02	(a) No employee shall be discharged or disciplined except for just cause. The Union agrees that it will uphold the rules and regulations of the Company In regard to punctual and steady attendance, proper notification In case of absence and conduct on the job.
21.02	(b) The Company agrees that where meetings are held with employees concerning their work or conduct, which Implements any form of official reprimand, discipline or discharge, a Shop Steward or Union Representative shall leave the meeting if requested to
do so by the employee.
27
ARTICLE XXII
ARTICLE XXII
TERMINATION AND RENEWAL

22.01	This Agreement shall remain in effect ||ntil Apr113Q-i9flf
and shall continue in force thereafter from year to year unless el ther party shall have given (60) days written notice to the other of its desire to terminate the same. In the event of such notice of amendment or termination by either party, each party shall submit to the other party, within fifteen (15) days thereafter its proposed amendments, if any, to this Agreement and the parties aorar to meet to commence negotiations with respect to such ar idm t within not iater than a turiner period of iiiieen (15) days.
EXECUTED AT LEAMINGTON, Ontariothls 2M day of September. 1994.
FOR H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD
FOR UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS A.F.L
C I O. C.l c.
Lbs Pakens
Jim Whittal__
Barb Denotter
Colin Aram
Frank Findlow
Bryan Neath
29
APPENDIX “At!
SAURY PROGRESSION SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE MAY 1. 1994 OFFICE AND TECHNICAL GROUP
After 65 Working Days
Grade I Grade II Grade III Grade IV Grade V Grade VI Grade Vll
375.00
385.25
394.25
406.25
421.25
428.25
436.25
6M0S.
594.55
605.88
618.60
624.92
632.02
640.02
648.02
9 Mos. 12Mos
632,76
648.33
657.02
667.02
668.14 691.65
Lead $.31
APPENDIX “AH
RULES AND REGUUTIONS GOVERNING THE OPERATION OF JOB GRADING AND JOB CLASSIFICATION PROGRAM
1,	All job grades and classifications effective October3, 1994 have beencorrectly described and assigned to job grades and wage Inequities thereby eliminated. Accordingly, no grievance alleging wage rate Inequities will be filed or processed except where a job has substantially changed. Subsequent job, whose Job descriptions and grading have been approved by the Union as hereinafter provided, will be considered as correct, and no grievance alleging wage rate inequities will ha filed
29
2.	(a) A "change" in a job as refereed to herein is one which
materially affects Its contents or requirements. Changes in a iob description alone are not adequate to warrant regrading of an existingjob;
;b) When a new job Is established or an old job is substantially changed, a job description for such new or changed job will be assigned to the appropriate job grade, based on comparison with the other jobs in the respective wags schedule which applies;
(q\ A copy of the job description of the new or changed job will be Sent to the Union for approval at the earliestpos-sible date after the job hasbeen created, or the changes to the existing Job nave been made, toaether with a notation of the [OD grade;
;d) Upc i commencing an experimental job, changed Job, or a new job, an employee wiii remain ai the job classif ication rate which he regularly received prior to this Job, until a job grade rate Is assigned to the job. The Job will be graded within a three (3) month period where
re) Ifthe Union believesthat an existingjob haschangedto an extent sufficient to warrant an adjustment in job grade, It shall notify the Company in writing of its contention and ot the adjustment in job grade it contends to be appropriate. Such notice, insofar as possible, shall be given to the Company within fifteen (15) working days after the change in tne job Is alleged to nave occurred;
(t i Any job description and grade proposed by the Company shall be considered accepted by the Union if no written complaint is tiled by the Union within fifteen (15) worklna davs after such iob description and arade is subUnion;
(g)	Upon receipt of notice that a difference exists concerning the job description or job grading of a new or substantially changed job, the Company representative will meet with the Union Job Grading Committee to discuss the difference and attempt to make a settlement of these did srences The Company will advise the Union, in
30
writing, of their decision regardingthe said Job Description or Job Grade;
(h)	(i) If the Company and Union are unable to reach agreement on the job description or Job grading of a job classification within a reasonable periodof time, the difference will be submitted by either party to an impartial Arbitrator:
(li) The Arbitrator shall be chosen by agreement ol the parties within ten (10) working days following their disagreement falling which the Arbitrator will be appointed by the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario upon the written application of either party;
/jjlj No person may be appointed as the Arbitratorwho has
' 1 been involved in en attempt to negotiate or settle the matters lo be decided by the Arbitrator;
(Iv) TheArbitratorshallnotbeauthorizedto make anydeci-sion inconsistentwith the provisions of these Rules and Regulations, nor to alter, modifyor amend any of them;
(v)	The proceedings of the Arbitrator will be expedited by the parties andthe decision of the Arbitratorwill be final and binding on the parties hereto and the employee or employees concerned
(vi)	The parties will jointly bear the expenses of the
Arbitrator.
3.	The description and grading of jobs will be in compli-
ance with the following rules:
(a)	The descriptionandgradingshallbeofthejob. notthe person performing it;
(b)	Duties not assigned or approved by Management shall not be considered:
(c)	The grading shall be basetflUPbn average requirements to performfhe job satisfactorily ratherthan uponexcep-tlons to the average;
31
(d)	The grading shall be based upon the performance of a fair day’s work, and employees will be expected to maintain such standards;
(e)	The Job descriptions are to be sufficiently accurate to reveal those features of the job that determine Its classification. At the same time, they are not Intended to provide a complete listing of every individual feature of the job. If new duties, which may be assigned at any time, become a permanent feature of the work, the Job shall be reconsidered as provided in Section 2.
4.	The factors used to determine Job Classifications are as follows:
i.	Job Knowledge;
ii.	Education and Training;
ill. Complexity;
iv.	Responsibility for Judgment;
v.	Responsibility for Accuracy;
vi.	Responsibility for Confidential Matters;
vil. Responsibility for Interpersonal Skills;
viii. Working Conditions;
ix. Physical Effort.
5.	(a) An employee will be classified and assigned to the 65 working-day rate in the appropriate job grade upon obtaining seniority;
(b)	An employee, who maintains seniority privileges after being laid off for lack of work and being reinstated, is eligible for Job Grading. He will be placed on the salary schedule according to his length of service on the job In the appropriate job grade and classification subject to Clause 6;
(c)	The Company maintains the prerogative to hire technical and skilled employees at rates above the minimum wage rates as outlined In Ihe salary grid In the collective agreement, provided these rates are not inconsistent with rates paid to employees in the same job classification;
(d)	An employee, who has lost his seniority with the Company by reason of a lay-off shall, on rehlring, be treated as a new employee and must accumulate the necessary service under Clause
32
5(a) hereof In order to again become eligible for job grading.
6.	Each employee respectively shall be classified and paid for all hours worked each day the appropriate rate of the wage schedule for the job grade in which he is classified.
7.	Employees should be classified and receive their classification rate at all times for all work performed unless permanently promoted, transferred or demoted. Employees transferred shall receive the appropriate job classification rate as defined in Clause 6.
8.	Employees who work on jobs graded on the basis of the employee being required to wear safety equipment will be required to wear such equipment when performing the work which requires such protection.
9.	Employees will be paid at their job classification rate for the time spent during working hours attending meetings approved by Management.
10.	(a) The wage rate of an employee whose job grade has been lowered as a result of the introduction of the job grading program will be considered “red-circled" and will not be reduced as long as he remains on (he same job;
(b) A “red-circled" employee who moves to another job will receive the grade and wage rate of the new job classification he performs.
APPENDIX “B”
No Renewals unless as per article 17.01.
APPENDIX “C”
Modified Cola Formula
Cost of living formula modified to 1 cent for each 3/10% rise In the CPI for the period of May 1st to April 30th, payable only when productivity meets the following targets:
FY95-
FY96-
FY97-
FY98-
34	dozen #2 tins per man hours
36	dozen #2 tins per man hours
37	dozen #2 tins per man hours
38	dozen #2 tins per man hours
Amount of payoutwill be folded intowages effective May 1st of each year.
Retroactive COLA will be paid by separate cheque for all hours worked between May 1st I o April 30lh, lo be paid in June of each year.
Productivity Bonus
in addition to the COLA formula, If productivity exceeds the annual ad|ueted levels, employees will receive a lump sum payout by separate cheque to be paid In June of each year.
FYS5 the following formula will apply:
34	dozen #2 tine per man hours= $0.0 per hourworked
35	dozen #2 tine per man hours® $0.10 per hourworked
36	dozen #2 tins per man hours® $0,20 per hour worked
37	dozen #2 tins per man hours® $0,30 per hourworked 36 dozen #2 tins per man hours = $0.40 per hour worked
39	dozen #2 tins per man hours = $0.50 per hour worked
40	dozen #2 tins per man hours = $0.60 per hour worked
Any additional 1 point improvementwIH producean additional
At thebeglnning of each additional fiscal year, the Unlon/Man-agamsnl Committee will post the annual adjusted levels baaed on the factory budget.
APPENDIX "D"
EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTION CONTINUATION GUARANTEE
Heinz Canada shall remain a year round operation and expects that regular employment at Leamington shall not decline below the levels specified below, except for reductions resulting from:
capitelipiprovements piOCSSS changes oss Cf sales
Attrition (death, dismissal, quits, retirements)
34
For the purposes of this guarantee, the factory employment level Is defined as 600, plant and salaried employees minus subsequent attrition resulting from all reasons unrelated to transfer of product.
Employees hired after May 1st 1994, shall not be considered In determining whether the following guarantee shall go into affect,
The Company agrees that the following product lines will re main In Leamington for the duration of Inis Collective Agree, ment.
tomato Juice
bottled andtln ketchup
wet babyfoods
beans
pasta
tomato soup
dry baby cereal barbecue sauce
* proposed ■ U.S.
*	chill sauce
*	pizza sauce
*	tomato sauce
*	sloppyJoesauce
*	tomato paste (tin)
*	vinegar
*	mustard
*	vol/pac toddler baby food
If the permanent level of employment Is reduced below the 600 olant and salaried employees minus subsequent attrition rea	ill i	isons unrelated tc	e	i!	of productwlth
no reasonable bx| station of replace ) > employment ran belowthi avel sp settled abi a i a continuous six (6) month	>d	suiting In a breac	c	t	guarantee, the
foil	sio i will gi > li ito effec
' employeee will from the time of the original
wage
increase
* severance shall be Increasedto two (2) weeks per year of continuous service for those affected
APPENDIX "E"
rhe Company agrees to pay 2 weeks pc y< ar of eeveranc I the jnlonizea layoffs announced In January, 94. (200 people.)
35
APPENDIX "F" PENSION AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD
Leamington, Ontario
(hereinafter called the "Company")
-and-
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
Affiliated with A.F.L, - C.i.o. and the Canadian Labour Congress, on behalf of its Local 459
(hereinafter called the "union")
(a) “Plan" or “Pension Plan” means the “Hourly-rated Employees’ Pension Plan" set forth in Schedule "A" hereto or such amended or substitute plan as the parties may aaree upon pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, with trie following amendments:
ARTICLE XX
AMOUNT OF RETIREMENT ALLOWANCE UNDER THE PLAN
The first paragraph of Section 2 is amended lo read as follows:
;;) For retirements occurring on or after January 1,1990, but prior to January t, 1991, the minimum Retirement Allowance Davable to a Member shall be equal to $27.00
permonth trpnea by the numberof ofhisCred-itable Service (within the meaning of the Old Planorthis plan, as applicable).
For retirements on or after January 1, 1991, the minimum Retirement Allowance payable to a Member shall be equalto $29,00 per month multiplied bythe number ofyears of his Creditable Service (withinthemeaningof the Old Planorthis Plan, as applicable).
36
The Plan will incorporatethe following features:
a) 1-1/2 per cent of the average of the best five years of the last ten years.
p) 50 percent spouse benefit - surviving spouse of pen-sionerto receive 50 per cent of the basic pension.
E) Contribution. 4 per cent of Gross Earnings.
Id)	Supplement of $19.00 per month per year of pension
service, with a maximum service oi 30 years.
e) COLA on pensioners receiving this pension - 75 percenl of consumer price indexto a maximum of 6 percent.
f) Pensioners will receive either the minimum guarantee orthe percentagefQrmula, whichever isgreafer.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused their namesto be subscribedto this Agreement by their respective duly authorized representatives this 27th of September 1994.
FOR THE COMPANY.
Les Dakena______________
Jim Whlttal_____________
Barb_Denotter___________
Frank Flndlow___________
FORTHE UNION:
Colin, Aram ____________
Mary Ann Sherman________
Gene Collard____________
Bryan Neath_____________
37
April 30, 1994
Mr. Gene Collard
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Collard:
The following is in confirmation of the terms of the Company's long term total disability insurance plan.
1.	A benefit of $850 per month less a deduction of 4% as the employee's an nual maximum contribution to the pension fund for as long as the employee is totally disabled but not after the normal reliremei t at age 65.
2.	The employee’s annual maximum pension contribution will increase as the monthly benefit under the plan increases,
3.	The premiumfortho employee'scontinuingllfe insurancecov-erage will be paid by the company during tho period of long term total disability insurance benefit payments.
4.	The employee must submit medical evidence satisfactory to the Insurance company lor acceptance of his claim and as required during the period of total disability insurance payments
5.	The long term total disability insurance pian is effective after the completion of 52 weeks of weakly indemnity payments.
6.	The employee may also qualify for Canada Pension Plan disability payments. The total benefit of the long term total disability insurance plan plus the Canada Pension Plan disability payments, etc. cannot exceed the 66-2/3% U.I.C.
7.	Eligibility for benefits Is one year seniority prior to the claim
for weekly indemnity which qualifies the employee to apply for the I' mg term total dii ibilitj i	)l ai
38
8.	' Employeesreceivinglongtermtotaldisabilityinsuranceben-
efits will have normal pension benefits accumulated during the period of long term total disability.
9.	Ifthe employee ceases to be totally disabled, the long term total disability Insurancewill terminate.
10.	Ifthe employee continues to be disabledto the extent he Is unable to perform any of the jobs available at the H. J. Heinz Company of Canada Ltd, his long term disability Insurance will continue provided he does not accept employmentelse-where.
11 The Company agrees to qualify employees, whose compensation payments are discontinued and they are unable to work under the long term total disability plan, with the following pro-
visions
(a)
<b)
rhi win
ii a trial basis lor tf 1
of tf
kgi it
Any compensation pension received from Workers'Compensation will be deducted from the long term total disability payments
(c) The employee must agree to perform any orK (hat is available in order to qualify for the long term total disability provisions.
Yours truly,
T. James Whittal Department Managei Industrial Relations
39
April 30, 1994
Mr. Gena Collard
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
N8H 3C4
Dear Mr, Collard:
As discussed during negotiations whenthe day beforeChrist. mas and the day before New Year's Day falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company will have the option ol observing these days on some other day during the Christmas holiday period.
This will be implemented on a trial basis for the term of the agreement.
Yours truly,
T. James Whlttal Department Manager Industrial Relations
40
April 30,1994
Mr. Gene Collard
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie Street South
Leamington, Ontario
NBH 3C4
Dear Mr. Collard:
RE: Training Trust Fund
Concerningthe recent Memorandum of Settlement between the Company andthe Unionas agreed upon, the Company wishes to confirm by letter, the following matter concerning the training trust fund.
•I) A fund of $200,000 per contract year Will be spent by the Company for training.
2) The Company will have the option of not spending the committed monies if the government passes legislation requiring the Company to contribute to a government fund
TJif Company agrees to renew the July 16,1992, letter of Understanding. As an alternative, the Union/Management Committee will review the option of setting up a joint education training and trust fund with the condition of securing additional funds from
the Federal and/or Provincial
Yours truly.
T. James Whittal Department Manager Industrial Relations
41
April 30,1994
Mr. Gene Collard
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie St. S.
Leamington, Ontario N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Collard:
Re: $3.8 Million Cost Savina Items
The Uni in/Management Committee agrees to meet at the end if i	seal year to review the cost savings expected of the $3.8
nil_____m lUted. If additional savings (beyond the $3.8 million]
are generated from these items, the Company agree that tt e er ployees will benefit from these savings (in a manner that Is dele mined by a membership vote).
Yours truly,
T. James Whittal Department Manag Industrial Relations
42
April 30, 1994
Mr. Gene Collard
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie St. S.
Leamington, Ontario N8H 3C4
Dear Mr, Collard:
RE: Union/Management Committee
The parties agree to ensure the betterment of the Leamington Plant (employment levels and year-round operations), a joint Union/Management Committee will be established to review all aspects of the operation.
Yours truly,
T. James Whittal Department Manager Industrial Relations
43