BETWEEN-
H.KEIMZ COMPANY'OF CANADA LTD
' AND- V	;
UNITED t-QOb-ANO-COMMERCiALWORKERS.
LOCAL 459 V''	.
A.F.L. C.I.O. C.L.C.
. . . PLANT .UNIT- ■
. Expires April 30, 1993
PLANT UNIT
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into at Leamington, Ontarioa9ofthe_____27th_______day of September, 1994,
BETWEEN:
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LIMITED (hereinalter referredto as the "Company")
OFTHE FIRST PARI - and -
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 459
chartered by the Amalgamated Meatcutters and ButcherWorkmen of North America, affiliated with A.F.L, - C.I.O. and the Canadian Labour Congress, on behalf of its Local459
(hereinafter referred to as the '"Union")
OFTHE SECOND PART
INDEX
Article	Page#
1	Purpose....................................1
2	Recognition................................1
3	Union Security.............................2
4	Wages....................................  3
4.04	Jury Duty..............................    3
4.06	Bereavement Pay............................4
6	Shift Premiums.............................5
6	Hours of Work..............................5
7	Holidays.................................  B
8	Reporting Allowance and Call-In Pay........9
9	Seniority.................................10
9.03	Seasonal..................................10
9.07	Promotions..............................  11
9.08	Loses Sonority............................11
9.09	Shortage of Work.........................12
9.12	Health....................................12
9.17	Rotation..................................13
9.18	Vacancies (Posting).......................14
9.19	Transfer................................. 15
9.22	Lay-off...................................16
10	Vacations & Annual Plan; Shutdown........1B
11	Management Rights.........................21
12	Non-Strike Provision..................... 22
13	Settlement of Grievances..................23
14	Arbitration...............................26
15	Leave of Absence for (Union Rep.).........27
16
17
16
26
22
Sick and Welfare Plan.......................27	,
Uniforms....................................29
Bulletin Boards...........................  29
Rest Periods................................29
Safety and Health...........................29
General.....................................30
Termination and Renewal.....................30
Appendix "A" (Rates).......................32
Job Grading................................32
8	Health and Safety......................37
9	Company Paid Meetings..................37
10	Reporting Allowance & Call-In Pay....38
11	Holiday...............................38
Rules and Regulations lor Highway Transport
Drivers....................................38
Appendix “B” Maintenance Line Operators.... 41 Appendix "C" Modified Cola Formula and Productivity Bonus.........................42
Appendix “D” Employment and Production
Continuation Guarantee...................43
Appendix" E Pension Agreement............44
Contract Letters.........................47
Appendix "F" Job Titles and Rates....... 52
ARTICLE I
1.01	It is the purpose of this Agreement to maintain and pro-
mote harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to set forth hoursol work, rates tf pay and other conditions of employmentand to provide an amicable method of settling any difference or grievance which may arise relating to conditions of employment.	'
k-l
Bettermei
1.02	The parties agree that to ensure the betterment oft the Leamington Plant (employment levels and year-round operations), a joint Union/Management Committee will be/ established to review all aspects of the operation.	J
1.0 The	lon/l	c	n tieagt 1 meet
at'	end of	h fis	year to 1	1 e cost savin ex-
pei of the 8 m item >i I: additional a (be	the S3.8 milli re generated from these iter the
Co agrees thal the employees will benefit from these savings (in a iertl	is determined by a membership vote).
RECOGNITION
ARTICLE II
2,01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative for all its employees at its Leamington
Operations, save and except permanent assistant .................
Heads, permanent assistant (oreladies, and perso t hose ranks, persons solely and permanently employed as office staff, duality control (laboratory! staff and those covered bv other Collective
2,02	The term "employee" when used in this Agreement refers only to persons employed by the Company within the
harnaining unit dascrihari in this Article and whn have aenuimrl
seniority as set out in Sub-Article9,02
2 03 Tf -m "probationary employee" when used in this it rt	only to persons who have not completed the pro-
batonary pe 00 (iraRnrihari in thin Anraamant and uuhn hn\«= not acquired seniority as set out in	9,02
2.04	The term "seasonal employee" when used in this
Agreement refers only I o persons employed by the Company within the bargaining unit described in this Article, but who are hired by the Company between July 1 st and November 1 st of any year.
2.05	The only provisions of this Agreement which apply to probationary employees and seasonal employees are (hose provisions which are specifically applicable to probationary employees and seasonal employees and such provisions shall only aDDlv to probationary emolovees and seasonal emplovees to the extent specifically provided in such provisions
2.0' Wh i iver the singular or masculine are used in this Agreement the same shall be construed as meaning the plural or the feminine where the context or the parties hereto so require.
3.( All employees who are now members ol the Union or who may later become members shall remainjpembers in good standing during the lifetime of this AgreemSnfas a condition of employment,	.
3.02	Ail employees, including seasonal employees,fwho may
hereafter become employees in the bargaining unit, shall immedi-
ately upon expiration ofsixtv-tiye fan) mnspontive workina-dava with the Company, or alter sixty-five (65) interrnittenfworking days within a period of five (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each of such months, become and remain members in good standing of the Union during the lifetimo'of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
3.03	The Companywillfurnishtofhe Union, every two weeks,
a list of employees with more than fifty (50) and lessthan fifty-five (55) consecutive working days with the Company. ^	|
3.04	The Company will deduct Union dues from the pay ol each member of (he Union when so authorized by sueh members in writing on a form acceptable to the Company. Such deduction shall be made monthly on the employee's first pay day of each calendar month and the amounts so deducted shall be transmitted
lo the Financial Secretary of Local 459 within twelve (12) days following each deduction. Upon written notice from the Financial
2
Secretary of the Union, the Company agrees to deduct any assessment which maybeleviedfrom limetotime.
3.05	(a) The Companywill provide the Union six monthsad-vance notice of permanent plant closure in order to set up an Adjustment Committee.
3.05 (b)	provide the Union three (3) months
at	i of	.1 plant closure in order to set up an
at	I	This shall apply only to a permanent
la of 5 or 'e seniority employees. This section
shall not apply to seasonal operations.
WAGES
ARTICLE IV
4.01	(a) The minimum hourly rates of pay shall be as follows:
after 65 days of actual work $8.00
Anyone that has obtained sixty-five (65) days of actual work as of July 11, 1992 will receive the former rate of $10.50 but any new employee obtaining sixty-tive (65) days of actual work after that date will receive the new rate of $8.00.
(b)	The rates for all jobs under the job grading plan are applicable for all employees after 130 days of actual work with the Ci unpany.
4.02	Highway Transport Driversshall be paid a weekly wage determined by the rate applicable underthe job grading pian.
4.03	The rules and regulationsand rates underthe job grad-
ing plan appear as Appendix "A” hereto and shall be considered as part of this Agrement.

.1
JjJRY DUTY 4.04
All employees required to serve on a jury shall, for the period of such service be compensated for the difference’botween the daily amount received by them as jurors and eight hours pay at the rate paid the employeetne last working day before serving jury duty.
3
4,05	It is agreed that any employee, seasonal or otherwise, who have been in the employ of the Company for a period of sixty-five (65) days of actual work within a period of one yearand who have been laid off and rehired within one year from the date of lay-off will receive, on rehiring, the rate of pay which was being received by them at the time of lay-off, together with any Increases agreed to during the period of lay-off, Provided that, in any case, the rate of pay to be received by such an employee, upon rehlrlng, shall not exceed the rate then being paid to employees who have completed 65 davs of actual work.
BEREAVEMENT FAY
4.06	An employee m no grantoo a leave ol absence from work as reouired of three days in the case of absence due to death of the employee's spouse, child, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law. father-in-law, member of his step family, grandparent, grandparent-in-law. and grandchild. Such employee will be paid eight (8) hours per day at the rate he received on the last day workecf before such leave (or each workday (Monday through Friday) that falls within the immediate three (3) calendar day period following the death of the employee's relative as specified above, in no case wi/f an employee be paid for more than three (3)work days nor will an employee be paid tor Saturday or Sunday under any circumstances. If the employee cannot attend the funeral, only one workday will be granted providedsatisfactory evidence of death is furnished the Company. An employee will be granted on the same basisa leave of absence from work as required of one day In the case of absence due to the death of the employee's daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-lawor sister-in-law.
4.07	Emplo ees working on the afternoon (second) shift and on the night (third; shift shall receive their pay Thursday evening.
4.08	A cost of living allowance will be paid in accordance with Appendix “C".
4.09	Job titles and grades applicableto each department shall be posted in the respective departments.
4
ARTICLE V
S.01	(a) A shift premium equal to 3 percent of the base rate (Grade 1) shall be paid for all hodrs worked after 3:00 p.m. on a regular afternoon (second) shift and a shift premium equal to 4.5 percent of the base rate (Grade 1)foral! hours worked prior t58:uo a.m. on a regular night fthird) shift. (Theshift premiumto be rounded to the closest cent). Itrqnalify for a shift premium on the night (third) shift, an employee must work the majority of his standard eight hours on that shift, priorto 8:00 a.m. To qualify fora full shift premium on the afternoon (second) shift or night (third) shift, an employee must work 50 percent or more of hisstandardelghthours on his respective shift.
(b) Notwithstanding the above, the language will be inoperative until May 1st, 1998. Present amountswlll remainuntil then with no increasein premiums.
5.02	Where an employee has less than eight (8) hours off betweenshifts, apremiumoftime and one-halfwillbe paidforsuch time as is worked by him during such an eight hour period, except where employees with the consent of supervision trade shifts for the employees'convenience.
ARTICLE VI
6.01	(a) Hours of work shall be scheduled by the Company in accordance with its requirements.
(b) It is agreedand understood that Mondaycommences at 12:00 a.m, (Sunday midnight)
6.02(a) T meandono-naf sna Ibepadfora. hoursworxed in excess of aiohLiflUipurs per day or forty (401 hours per week, Monday through Friday, except to highway Transport Drivers who aro paid at a weedy rate Forth® purposes of tnis paragraph, a Shill snail bo deemed to fall on the day on which it commences.
(b) During the period that tomatoes are being processed, probationary and seasonal employees shall be paid
5
over-time at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week. The Company shall post nolices prior to any workweek when this period shall begin.
(c)
8 weekjjuration only All departments (all units)
5	x8 hour shifts starting any day oftheweekfS days on, 2 days off.
All hours in excess o< 8 hours er shift (40 hours per week) will be paid at one angone-hall times the regular rate.
Employees required to work on the 6th or 7th day will be paid at a rateof one and one-halt times lor all hoursworked.
The number of times the affected employees will be expected to work Saturday/Sunday at regular rate will be limited to 5 times out of the 8 week period. This isunlikely to impact morethan200
During the season, it Is agreed that the 6th and 7th consecutive work day shall be treated as a Saturday and Sunday with respect to the hours of work ana overtime provisioninthe Collective Agreement with the exception that the 7th day will bepald at the rate —of time and one-half lorall hoursworked, (ratherthan double time).

0
The Un/on/Management Committee will meet to develop a detailed schedule lor the affected employees, to be posted by June 1,1994.
/ 6.03 Double time shall be paid for work performed on Sunday except to probationary and seasonalemployees during the
tomato season.
6.04	(a) When the Company decides that overtime work is
6
necessary, throughout the period of Monday to Friday, inclusive, it will be first assigned to employees on the same shift who are performing the work required, and then by shift seniority, provided they are ready and available for such work.
(b)	When overtime work is required on Saturday, Sunday or on a paid holiday, it will be allocated by seniority on a shift basis, provided the employees concerned have the necessary skill, merit and ability to perform the work required. Shifts will be determined bv the following guidelines:
(ft The , ,	deemed be	on
the shift on which he has spent the majority oT his time during the week, Monday to Friday, preceding the Saturday and Sunday overtime. Example: an employee who works 3 days on days and 2 on nights would be considered for the day shift overtime on Saturday and Sunday, even though he was not on days on the Friday precedingthe overtime.
(ii)	In a week in which a paid holiday occurs, the holiday shall be consideredas a day shift, provided the employee does not work a different shift on the holiday.
(iii)	If an employee is absent due to illness, he shall be considered as working on the shift he was scheduled for the day he took sick.
ev) Employeestrading an individual day or night shift or
v ' by the week, shall be considered as working on their original scheduled shift.
(c)	It is understoodthat when skilled maintenance work is required by the Company on Saturday, Sunday or on a paid holiday, it will be distributed as equally as practicable among the skilled maintenance employees within the respective skilled classifications concerned. An employee who declines such an overtime assignment will be credited therewith in the administration of this understanding.
(d)	When the Company decides that Overtime work is
7
necessary on Sunday, during the tomato season,and pickle season, it will deallocated as outlined in 6,04 (a) above provided the assignment of overtime does not interfere with normal shift rotation.
HOLIDAYS
ARTICLE VII
7.01(a) Employees other than proi ees whr work on the da'' ..per, which i obsei ec namely:	'
ary or seasonal employ
nl IUa (nllmkiinn krtUrJatK
w. m.w	MV,.-j
T3WZ0
New Year's Day Canada Day Labour Day Boxing Day Christmas Day

Good Friday Victoria Day Civic Holiday Thanksgiving Day
shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked ir addition to the holiday allowance of eight (8) hours as provider ii
7 YV7 Tkrton noumnnfe chciTl ha /'rtmni itoH Atl thl hfl1 !■
(ju.uympii '	------r----------
of the rate applicable to the job performed
I (b) An additional day as determined by the Company will bo ranted ;
(o) A holiday allowance of eight (8) hours will be paid for (he 7 Ias1 wonting day prior to slmas	(asr ng
Z^prior to Now Years Day subject to tne condit ons sat forth in . graphs 7 02 and 7.03
Each of the holidays will be observed Monday through
Friday
7.02	Employees otherthan probationaryorseasonal employees not required to work on such recognged holidays shall receive a holiday allowance of eight (8) hours at the rate paid the employee the last working day before the holiday, provided he works his full scheduled working day immediately preceding and his full scheduled working day inmmediatelyfollowing such holiday unless absent for any of the following reasons:
(I) Personal Illness (proven by a Doctor's certificate ' acceptable to the Company);
8
(ii)	quarantined by order of a qualified health authority;
(iii)	death in the immediate family:
(iv)	compulsory Court attendanceas a witness or on(ury
(v)	if absent up to five (5) working days when written leave-of-absence therefor has been granted by the employee's Department Head;
(Vi) absent on bona fide Union Business up to ten (10) working days.
7.03	In order to quality for pay for the holidays as above, the employee's scheduled working day herein before referred to must fall within three working days before and within three working days after the said holiday (or within six working days before and within Six working davs after the said hnliHav where narenrenh 7.Q0 m applies) ancf mist be worked.
7.04	In any week in which a paid holiday as provided by this Agreement falls, the Company shall pay time and one-half, lor all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours'por day or thirty-two (32) hours perweek except to Highway Transport Driversas aforesaid. Highway Transport Drivers will be paid overtime after thirty-five decimal two (35.2) hours per week in any week in which a paid holiday as provicfeiiil by this Agreement falls or in the week in which either the Friday preceding or the Monday following the employees’vacation perlodis taken as an additional day off in lieu of the holiday.
8.01	An employee who is scheduled or notified to report for work and who does report for work on time shall be entitled to a minimum ofjour hflma^traight-time pay, unless previously notified by the CompSny'not to report for work, provided that no reporting allowance shall be paid (or any period of time worked by an employee within his regularlv scheduled shift. Provided further, that If
duty;
requested by the
the employee shall perform a
9
of four hours of such available work as the Company may assign, and, further provided that the Company'sobligation to grant minimum reporting pay as above provided snail not apply where failure to furnish work is due to causes beyond the Company'scontrol.
- |
8.02	An employee who is called and returns to work after he has completed his schedule shift and has left the premises of the Company shall be paid, regardless of the amount of time worked, not less than four (4) hours”straight-time pay.
ARTICLE IX
SENIORITY
9.01	Seniority means length of continuous service with the
Company. it entitles the employee to preference in cases pi decrease or increase of the working force.	S
9.02	An employee, other than a seasonal employe, acquires seniority after completing the probationary period of sixty-five (65) consecutive working days with the Company or after’six1y-fi'7tr(65) intermittent working days within a period of five (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each of such months, but when so acquired, the employee's seniority dates from the date first hired.
SEASONAL
9.03	A "seasonal emDlovee,,acauires seniority when retained in the Company's service after November 1 st of any year and after completing the established sixty-five (65) days' probationary period, but when an employee's seniority is so acquired, his seniority dates from the date first hired if the sixty-live (65) working days are accumulated within a period of live (5) consecutive months but without necessarily having worked in each of such months.
9.04	A new employee's seniority applies in the department to which he is assigned at the end ol his probationary period, and continues in that department until the employee is transferred to another department.'
9,05	Wherever practicablethe Company will give preference in hiring as seasonal employees, to those who were employed during the previousseasonal operations.
9.06	Wherever practicable the Company will give the opportunity for permanent employment to senior seasonal employees
10
who are competent to do the work required of them. For the purposes of this section, a “senior seasonal employee" shall be deemed to be an employee who has accumulated a total of twelve months employment as a seasonal employee over a period of three consecutive seasonal operations as defined in Article 2 hereof.
Promotions	'll ft $	& I
9.07	(a) In connection with promotions, other than appointments to supervisory positions, upgrading^ demotipns; layoffs and rehir-ina-sanioritv wilLoovern where skill, meri? and ability are comparatively eqtial. Promotion shall be on a departmental basis and the company shall give written notice to the Steward of the Department of any promotion.
lb) Upon making a promotion to a job having a classified rate, tne Company will take into consideration employees' special qualifications as on fils wilh the Human Resources Department.
(c)	In the application of paragraph 9.07 (a), time spent in filling a temporary or seasonal vacancy shall not result in an employee being given preference over employees who normally perform the Job.
9.08	An employee loses seniority when the employee:
(a)	quits or resigns;
(b)	is discharged for cause;
(c)	in case of an employee with less than two year’s senior-
ity, is laid off for lack of work for a continuous period In excess of the length of his seniority with the Company. In the case of employees with seniority of two years or more, is laid off fotjackpf work, for a continuous period in egceeguLlwu years:	~ .7 Lf-
(d)	fails to report for work when called without a valid reason;
(e)	fails to report for work within seventy-two (72) hours after being sent a written notice by registered mail addressed to the employee's last address known to the Company, advising that all seniority rights shall terminate if the employee fails to report within seventy-two (72) hours of such notice, unless the employee
11
obtainsa written extension of the time within which to report within seventy-two (72) hours of such notice.
OTYVOm T/6'l
9.09	In the event of a shortage of work in any department, the senior employees shall baye preference for the work available providing that there is no bumpincLWltfiih tfia day.	"'
9.10	In the event of a temDorary shutdown of one or more departments, plant-wide seniority will not apply to the employees involved with respectto lay-ofts of two weefcs duration orless provided that this may only be applied once Per calendar year to the same employees. If any of the paid holidays underparagraph 7.01 occur during such a shut-down employees who are laid olf under this provision shall receive holidayallowanca in accordance with paragraph7.02, provided they work the full scheduled working day within three working days immediately preceding and within three working days immediately following the shut-down, Employees who continue to work during shut-down shall quality for holiday allowance in accordance with paragraphs 7.02 and 7.03.
9.11	Inthe case of lay-offs other than temporary, the following procedure shall apply:
(a)	Probationary employees shall be laid off first.
(b)	Thereafteremployeesshallbelaidoffaccordingto plantwide seniority, provided that the employee entitled by seniority to the work available hasthe necessaryskill, merit and ability to per-formthatwork. Positiononthe seniority list shall be determined by chronological order of hiring.
.HEALTH	l
9.12(a) Tf C y and Union agre a that, where practical, the Com HI try i place employee absent on sick leave or compent_. on, oi jobs which’they are capable-of performing. It necessary, in the assignment of this work, the employees must agree to waive their seniority rights. This procedure will be implemented on a trial basis tor the term ot the agreement.
(b)	Notwithstanding the above displacement procedures, the Employer and the Union, at any time, can formulate special measures to modify the above displacement procedures to lake
12
into account the desire of the parties to minimize the impact of displacement or to deal with particularoperationalconsideratgn^.
9.13(a) A pregnant employee may apply for ancf take a leave of absence at the end of-five months of pregnancy and shall be lr/2 entitled to be re-erfipluySSTwitR full seniority rights provided she J reports for work wlthintwo months after the birth, unless she produces a medical certificate satisfactory to the Company showing'_ that she is unable to do so.	£■ //? — 0f £	$2
(b)	In the case of adoption of a pre-school child, the mother or lather may apply for leave of absence of (hree (3) months effective the date of receipt of the child and shall be entitled to be reemployed with lull seniority rights at the termination ot such leave.
.	I
ing long and faithful service who has become unable to handle hisl job In another job which he is competent to perform u-z -r
9,15	An employee who presentsa medical certificate showing that he has been ill or disabled by accident shall maintain his seniority lights during the period of such illness or disability. -
9.16	Leave of absence if granted in writing by the Company will not affect an employee’s seniority rating. An employee may under special circumstances receive a maximum of three weeks' leave of absence throughhis Department Head.
ROTATION	2- 0
9.17	(a) In any departmentwhere the rotating system is now in effect, tne present method of rotationshall remain in effect, with the following provisions:
(i)	employees shall be treated equally with regard to being assigned higher paid work, providing they can perform such work;
(ii)	no employee shall be compelled to rotate on jobs which be Is not physicallycapabie of performing.
(jjjj employees who normally do not rotatewill not be compelled to do so, so long as it is practicable.
13
(b)	Inanydepartmentwherethe rotating system is not now in effect, the department shall continue to operate on this basis so long as it is practicable, and the senioremployee in the department shall be given preference lorthe higherrated jobs.
(c)	The employees subject to the above provisions must have the necessary skill, merit and ability to perform the work.
VACANCIES
9.18	(a) The term “vacancy" for the purpose of this Article, shall be defined as an opening in the departmental seniority list where the number of persons required by the Company exceeds the number employed therein, due to an employee's transfer death, retirement, termination of employment, or an opening of a new department, and the duration of which is expected to exceed 65 working days. The vacancy will ha posted for three working days throughout the factory. Applications tof transfer to a posted vacant^ may be made in writing by employees throughout the factory
Nothing herein contained will prevent the Company from filling such vacancy with a candidate from outside the bargaining unit it none of the aDDlicants from within the unit possess the necessary skill, merit aid ability
t0\ Thejob vacated by an employee transferred underthese provisions will be posted but any subsequent vacancy resulting therefrom, will not be subject to posting.
(d)	An employee who fails to fill the requirements of a posted vacancy, at the option of the Company, wilt be transferred back to the department he worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he would have continued to work In that department except for his ;l ti lithe posted vacancy, or to some other department. Such tub may not apply for the same posted vacancy for a period of' 3 nonfhs.
(ej In the case of arbitration, not more than one employee may claim an improper selection for the same posted vacancy.
14
9.19	When an employee after being transferred is laid off for any reason otherthan those specified in Article 11.02 of this Agreement, such lay-off shall not interfere with the accumulationof seniority in the new department. When so recalled, such an employee will nave preference overem loyees with [ess departmental seniority to come back into the department he was working in at the time of layoff. When so reinstated, the accumulationof seniority will continue until six months after the date of the first transfer, or three months, whichever is applicable.
9.20	(a) An employeewho istransferred from one departmentto another department as a result of his own request acquires no departmental seniority in that new department lor a period of six months except over employees brought into the department after the date of his transfer but if retained in that department after a period of six months, his departmental seniority based upon his total service as set forth above, applies in that new department only.
(b)	An employeewho istransferred from one departmentto anotherdepartmentby the Company acquires no departmental seniority in the new department for a period of three months except over employees brought into the department after the date of his transfer but If retained in that department after a period of three months, his departmental seniority based upon his total service as set forth above, applies in such new department. However, an employee, who is transferred by the Company to a new department as a result of a reduction in the number of employees in his former department due to a technological change, shall acquire seniority in the new department as of date of transfer.
(c)	Where thetransfer of a person in (he employ of the Company from outside the bargaining unit into the bargaining unit is mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union, such person (employee) acquires no seniority within the bargaining unit for a period of six months except over employees brought into the bargaining unit after the date of his/her transfer, but if retained in the baraaininq unit after a period of six months, the employee's bargaining unit seniority will be basad upon his/her total service with the Company.
(d)	In the applicationof (c) above, an employee who fails to fill the requirementsofthe positionwithinsix mo ntnsfrom transfer
15
into the bargaining unit, at the option of the company, will be transferred back to the department he/she worked in immediately preceding the transfer if he/she would have otherwise continued to work (in that departmentexceptforhis/her transfer, or to some other department within his/her original bargaining unit lor placement, if any, on the basisof skill, ability and seniority.
(e)	In the application of fc) above, for the purpose of layoffs within the period of one year following the employee's transfer into the bargaining unit from outside the bargaining unit, at the option of the Company, will be transferred back to the department he/she worked in Immediately preceding the transfer if he/she would have otherwise continued to work In that department except for his/her transfer, or to some other department within his/her original bargaining unit for placement, If any, on the basis of skill, ability and seniority.
9.21	An employee transferred to any position within the Company excluded from the bargaining unit under this contract and subsequently transferred back to the bargainlng unit within a period of one year, shall retain his full seniority within the bargaining unit and shall be considered to have been continuously employed therein. Any other employee transferred from a position within the Company outside the bargaining unit shall acquire seniority in the bargaining unit only over employees brought Into the bargaining unit alter the date of his transfer.
Lay-oft
9.22	‘Temporary lay-offs" shall in this Agreement mean lay-offs of not longer than five 15) working days. In the case of temporary lay-offs, seniority shall be applied by department which means that tha employees of a department nave the first right to the work available in that department which they are competent to perform and that employees of another department with even more seniority even though competent to perform that work, cannot replace them by reason of greater seniority. However, if a temporary lay-off occurs due to an emergency, breakdown or a condition beyond the control of the Company, departmental seniority will not apply for a period of within two working days.
9.23	Seniority for the purpose of temporary lay-offs will be applied separately in the following departments, subject to such changes in the future as the interest of the business may require and as agreed to by the Union:
16
Vinegar / Paste Storage Department Can Filling Department Can and Baby Food Production Maintenance Department
4.	Cookroom Department
5.	Glass Production Maintenance Department
6.	General Filling, Labelling and Packing Department
7.	Building Service Department
8.	Mechanical Maintenance Department
9.	Construction Maintenance Department
10.	Warehousing Department
11.	Sauce Department
12.	Supply and Storage Department
13.	Garage.Equipment Department
14.	Production Preparation and Strained Food Kitchens Department and Rig Room, including Bean Picking
15.	Cereal Department
16.	Production Equipment Clean-up Department
17.	Can Labelling Department
18.	General Labour Department
19.	Central Stores Department
20.	Warehouse Maintenance Department
21.	Vegetable Maintenance Department
22.	Instrument, Electronics ana Electrical Department
Seniority lists will be posted in each department semiannually. Positionon the seniority list shall be determined by chronological orderof hiring.
9.24	The Company will forward to the Untaeten (10) copies of all departmentaland plant seniority lists semi-annually.
9.25	(a) The local UnionPresIdent and Chief Stewardshall have the privilege of working on the day shift.
(b)	The First Vice-President and Assistant Chief Steward shall have the privilege of working on the day shin if the President or Chief Steward is respectively absent lor extendedperiods oftime such as vacations. conventions, etc.
(c)	The Chief Steward or his/her replacement will be paid at a rate of pay determined by his/her classification or years of service.
17
ARTICLE X
VACATIONS & ANNUAL SHUTDOWN
10.01	Each regular employee shall be entitled to a vacation, its length to be determined as follows:
(a) if employed less than ten (10) months during the previous calendaryear, one (1) day of vacation in the second calendar year for each full calendar month of service in the previous calendar year;
jb) If employed ten (10) months or more but less than one (1) full calendar year during the previous calendar year: two (2) weeks of vacation in the second calendaryear; .	.
af o i'
During the calendaryear in which the employee celeb rates'nis second (2nd) and each subsequent anniversary date of service. each regular employee shall receive two (2) weeks of vacation with pay;
or 0 ,
(d)	, During the calendar year in which the employee cel-
ebrates his fifth (5th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive three (3) weeks of vacation with pay;	,
/ a o ir
(e)	During the calendaryear in which the employee cel-
ebrates his tenth (10th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive four (4) weeks of vacation with pay;	,	, —
0
m During the calendaryear in which the employee celebrates his eighteenth (18th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regularemployee shall receive five (5) weeks of vacation with pay;	r z./
/ V &
i„\ During the calendaryear in which the employee celebrates his twentyfifth (25th) and each subsequent anniversary date of service, each regular employee shall receive six (6) weeks of vacation with pay.
10.02	Five (5) working days shall constitute one week.
10.03	Vacation with pay shall be calculated as follows:
18
, (a) Employees entitled to two (2) weeks or less vacation - 4 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(b)	Employees entitled to three (3) weeks vacation - 6 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(c)	Employees entitled to four (4) weeks vacation - 8 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(d)	Employees entitled to five (5) weeks vacation -10 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(e)	Employees entitled to six (6) weeks vacation - 12 percent of earnings for the preceding calendar year;
(f)	Vacation pay shall be calculated as follows:
(i)	if the employee has worked 500 or more hours during the preceding calendar year, 2 percent of earnings for such preceding calendar year for each week of vacation entitlement, or equivalent of the employee's regular hourly wage rate for a forty-hour week, which ever is greater,
(ii)	if the employee has worked less than 500 hours during the preceding year, 2 percent of the employee’s earnings for such preceding calendar year each week of vacation entitlement,
(iti) in calculating time worked, absence while receiving Workers' Compensation, Weekly Indemnity, or casual union business, paid holidays and vacations will be credited as time worked on the basis of eight (8) hours for each day the employee would otherwise have regularly worked, provided that the employee has worked during such preceding calendar year,
(iv)	in the case of employees who move from job to job, their job grade rate for vacation pay will be determined by the job grade rate they receive for the third week prior to the week of their vacation. If the employee did not receive 40 hours of pay. for that week, the determining week would then be the fourth week. You would continue to substitute the next prior week until a regular week of work was found.
19
10.04	(a) When a "paid holiday occurs while an employee.is on vacation, he will be paid “holiday" pay in addition to regular vacation pay.
(b) (i) Employees will have the option of taki ng an additional day off on either the Friday preceding or the Monday following their vacation if a paid holiday occurs during their regular vacation period. The employees must notify supervision of their intention prior to the com mencement of their vacation
«n Employeeswhosevacationmonies are considerably reduced because of absence thepreceding year, may elect to take a reduced vacation time during the current year equivalent to the amount of their vacation monies. The amount of vacation time to be taken is to be reviewedby the Human Resources Department, subject to legal requirements.
10.05	Vacations must be taken in periods of not lessthan one week at a time unless an employee's service entitles him to less than one week, in which case, he must take ail of his vacation at one time. Employees entitled io a vacationi will take it when convenient to (he Company. Exceptions to this policy will only be granted under special circumstances and must be approved by tho Vice-President- Manufacturing.
10.06	When practicable, vacations will be scheduled as requested by the employees in employee seniority order except that efficient operations of the plant snail be the first consideration and the Companyshall have the righttoassignvacationsonthat basis.
10.07	An eligible employee upanbeing laid off indefinitely without having received the paid vacation provided under this Article, will receive vacation pay accumulated to the employee's credit at the end of theprevious calendar year, unlessthe employee notifies the Company in writing at the time of (ay-off that he prefers to postpone such paid vacations until later in the calendar year in which he is laid ofl. Vacation pay will be made by cheque.
10.08	Upon termination of employment, an employee will receivevacation pay accumulatedto his credit.
30
10,09	Annual Plant-Shutdowns
2	weeks in July
2 weeks in December
Statutory Holidays will be included in the
2	week shutdown In December.
Posted by Februarylst indicatingwhat departments will be shutdown.
Ifafter February 1st changes are required that necessitatedepartmentsworKing, volunteers will be sought by Department seniority and then by Plant seniority.
Vacations m ust betaken underthe following formula:
3	weeks vacation - must use 2 weeks within the man* datory Shutdown
4	weeks or more- must use3 weeks within the mandatory shutdown
There will be no plant shutdown in July of 1994 ARTICLE XI
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
11,01	The Unionacknowledgesthaftisthe exclusive function of the Company to:
(i) Maintain order, discipline, efficiency: pj Hire, classify direct and lay-off:
\ii) Discharge, transfer, promote, demote, suspend, or otherwise discipline employees subject to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance as
I herein provided;
(iv) Make and alter from time lo time rules and regulations I o be observed by the emp loyees providedthey are not inconsistentwiththe provisions of this Agreement:
(v)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in
21
which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the .	the
products to be manufactured, methods of manulac-ture, schedules of production, kinds and location of machines and tools to be used, processes of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials and parts to bo incorporated in the products produced and the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations.
11.02	it is understood that the cause for which the Company
may summarily suspend employees (provided that the suspension vuiii nnt nroHnrin the Company Irons discharging the emnlovee. include the following.	”
I (it intoxication;
(ii) disorderly conduct;
(iii)	insubordination:
(iv)	unauthorized absenteeism;
(vj neglect of duty:
(vi)	carelessnessendangeringthe safety of others;
(vii)	theft or destruction of Company property.
11.03	The termination of any employee without seniority may be lor any reason as determined by the Company.
11.04	The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XU
12,01	The Union agrees lo accept and abide 6yall the terms and conditionsofthis contract and during its term will not permit its members to engage in any walk-out, sit-down, slow-down or other interference with or Interruption of work, and that it will not call, countenance or otherwise encourage any walk-out or strike. Any employee violating this provision snalt be subject to disciplinary action as determined by the Company. The Company agrees to accept and abide by all the terms and conditions of this contract and during the term will not lock out the employees.
22
ARTICLE XIII
13.01	The Unionwill select DepartmentalStewards and a Chiel Steward for the plant. The Company will be advised by the Union of the names a its stewards and will recognize such representatives of the Union in processinggrievances as hereinafterset forth.
13.02	All grievances shall be dealt with during working hours where possible without loss of lime or pay to the parties involved.
13.03	It is understood that Stewards, including the Chief Steward, have their regular work to perform on behalf of the Company and will spend onlv such time during working hours as is necessary to service grievancesas provided under the grievanceproce-dure. if it is necessary to service a grievance as authorized by this Agreement, they will not leave their regular work without first obtaining the permission of the Department Head of the Department in which they are respectively employed. It is also understood that a Steward snail not enter another Department without first obtaining the permission of the Department Head of such department and notifying him as to the nature of the grievance and the personnel involved. The Steward, upon leaving a Department after servicing a grievance, will notify the Department Head thereof, and upon resuming his regular work, after servicing a grievance in his own or another department will report to his own Department Head. Whenever, in the opinion of the Department Head concerned, more than a reasonable period of time has been taken by a Steward In servicing a grievance, the Steward's Department Head may decline to approve payment to such Steward for such excess time. The term “Department Head" shall mean the person supervising the work force
13.04	It is understood that an employee has no grievance until
he has given his Department Head an opportunity to adjust his complaint which shall be presented by the employee who shall be accompanied by his Departmental Steward to his Department Head within three lull working days after the circumstances giving rise to the complaint have originated or occurred
If an employee has an unsettled complaint, it may be taken up as a grievance within three full working days after receiving the Dep irtment Head’s decision in the following manner and sequence:
23
Step No. 1:
Between the employee, who may be accompanied by his Departmental Steward, and his Department Head. The grievance Shall be presented in writingand the decision of the Department Head shall bo rendered in writing within two full working days following tho oresontationof the grievance,
Falling settlement, then:
Slap No. 2:
The matter may be presented in writing within two working days to the Human Resources Department at which time the written record of the grievance shall be submitted and the Human Resources Department's written decision given within not more than three working days following receipt of the written grievance at this
cton
Failing settlement, then:
Step No. 3:
Within live full working days, following the decision under Step 2: the grievance shall be submitted as part of the agenda for a meeting between the Company's representatives and members ol the Plant Grievance Committee, not exceeding six in number. An International Representative of ihe Union may be present at such meeting. The decision of the Company's representatives shall be given in writing within five full working days of the said meeting.
.0 ailing settlement of any difference between the parties under Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure, arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation ot this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, such difference or question may be taken to arbitration as provided in Article 14. If no written request tor arbitration is received within ten working days alter the final decision undei tne Grievance Procedure is "given it shall be deemed to have b S6iu6u or SuSnuGriSu.
13.06	Any difference arising directly between the Company anal Union may be submitted by either party at Step No,3 of the Grievance Procedure and time limits provided thereby shall appropriately apply to both parties.
13.07	The aggrieved employee may be present during each step of the Grievance Procedureand at Arbitration. When a group
24
|of employees hasa complaint or grievance it shallfirst betaken up under Step No. 2 and they may be represented by the appropriate Steward and not more than two employees.
13.08	Any adjustment arising under a settlement through the Grievance Procedure or under a decision of an Arbitration Board Shall not be made retroactive prior to the date the matter is first presented under the Grievance Procedure, except as to improper classification or bookkeeping error involving an employee's earnings.
13.09	All decisions arrived at, between representativesot the Company and the representativesot Union, at any stepof the written grievance procedure, shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union and the employee or employees concerned. The Company shall submit a written reply to eacn written grievance.
13.10	Failure of the Union or employees to comply with the time limits in Step 1,2 and 3 above, shall be consideredas acceptance of the last answer given, thus disposing of the grievance. Failure of the Company to comply with the time limits provided in Steps 1,2 and 3 above shall be considered a refusal of the request involved In the grievance and immediate appeal to the next step in the procedure may be taken. When either party desires additional time v ithin which to properly process a grievance, additional time within reasonable limits shall be granted by the other party upon writtei i request.
13.11	The Company will supply the Union with a list of the Department Fleads and Assistant Dep rtn nt Hi ads excluded from the provisions of this Agreement as rfoi said and will notify the Union of any changes thereto
13.12	At any step in this grievance procedure, the Executive Board of the Local Union shall nave the final authority in respectto any aggrieved employee covered by this Agreement, to decline to processa grievance, complaint, difficulty or dispute further if. in the judgement of the Executive Board, such grievance or dispute lacks merit or lacks justification under the terms of this Agreement, or has been adjusted or justified under the terms of th Is Agreeme nt to the satisfaction of the Executive Board. Once the aggrieved employee has been notified either by their steward or the Union Business Representative that their grievance is being dropped because of lack ot merit, the aggrieved employee has fifteen calendar days
25
to appeal that decision by sendinga letterto the Union President requestingto appear before the Union Executive Board.
13.13	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Article and the provisions of Article XIV of this Agreement do not apply to probationary employees, or to seasonal employees nor shall the provisions of this Article or the provisions of Article XIV of this Agreement be available to the Union on behalf of any probationary employee or on behalf of any seasonal employee.
ARTICLE XtV
ARBITRATION
14.01	When either party requeststhat any matter be submitted to arbitration as herein before provided it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, and at the same time nominate an Arbitrator, within live days thereafter the other party shall nominate an arbitrator: provided, however, that if such party fails to nominatean arbitratoras herein requested, the Minister of Labour tor the Province of Ontario shall Kaye power to effect such an appointment upon the application thereto by the party invoking arbitration procedure. The two arbitrators shall, within five days of the appointment of the latter of them, attemDt to select by agreement a Chairman of (he Arbitration Board, ifthey are unable*to'agree upon such a Chairman,within such a period of five days, they shall then request the Ontario Labour Arbitration Commission to assist them In selecting an impartial Chairman, provided that the Chairman shall be selected from other than the Civil Service and shall be chosen having regard to his impartiality, his qualifications in interpreting collective bargaining agreements ana his familiarity with industrial relations.
14.02	No person may be appointed as an arbitratorwho has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
14.03	No matter may besubminedtoarbitrationwhich has not been properly carriedthrough all previous Steps of the Grievance Procedure.
14.04	The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement,
26
14.05	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by tl i parties hereto, and the decision ol the majority, or failing that, the Chairman of such Board will be final and binding upon the parties hereto and the employee or employees concerned.
14.06	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of the
arbitrator representing ltv and the partiesyvill jointly bear the ex-
pense of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board
ARTICLE XV
LEAVE OF ABSENCE I
FOR UNION.REPRESENTATIVES^gJ
15.01	(a) A leave of absence with seniority maintained will be ' granted for a period ofdwo years to two employees (only one per aepartment)at anytime acceptinga full-time position with the Union subject to renewal upon mutual agreement of the Company and the Union. Forthe interpretationofthis clause for leave of absence lor union representatives meansthat the time spent on leave of absence is accumulated for seniority purposes only but not for fringe benefits, e.g. pension service, etc., unlessspecificallyagreed upon.	f , jL/ n
(b)	Reasonable time off with seniority maintained shall be granted to Union represeTltatfros to attend bona fide Union busi-ness^ provided competent replacements are available'for those employees desiring to be away from work. Every consideration will be given a Union officer to make it possible tor him to attend Union meetings.
SICK AMD WELFARE PI AM
16.01	The Company agreesdo assume the cost of the following Sick and Welfare Plans with respect to fiaOh employee while in the active employment of the Company who is eligible for benefits thereunder:	/
(a)	Ontario Health Insurance Plan:
(b)	(i) The Weekly IndemnityPlanprovidinga maximumcov-
erage of fifty-two (52) weeks shall provide a weekly indemnity allowance eguivalentto the sixty-six and
7 00-16 0	----------
27
1*\
otfpb
two-thirds (66 213) percent Unemployment Insurance Commission Plan for employees who qualify thereunder;
For employees with less than one year's service with the Company, benefits provided will be the lengthof Company service;
Weekly indemnity payments will continue only while employees are on the active payroll;
(c)	Alt regularemployeesshal! beentitled toWeekly Indem-
nity benefits Immediately upon reinstatement on the payroll following a lay-off;	Z~\o°
(d)	Supplementary Hospitalization Planto be continued;
(e)	The Thirty-Five (35) Cent Deductible Drug Planshall be continued.
Life maintenance prescription Increased from 30 days to 3 months. Co-payment of 50% of dispensing fee on all prescriptions; 7<?F-\0*	■ /
(f)	The present supplementary Health Care^enefit Plan will remain in effect
(g)	The Companywillprovide a Dental Plan; 12 month
checkups;	7c E.~)q&	7l~? » li( K f '''
(h)	The present Long Term Total Disability Plan will remain
in effect;	1— ------- 7 Op- I&U
(i)	Out-of-Provinoe/Country emergency treatment;
(j)	The Company wilt provide a basic vision care plan: 1 pair every £ years ycf (y ''10 0
(k)	Physiotherapy treatment covering visits to licensed cHnics.
16.02	The Plan documents for all sick and wel/are benefits provided under this agreement are an integral part of the collective agreement and are hereby incorporatetdby reference into it. The Company will provide the Union with complete and current documents of ell benefit plans.
28
UNIFORMS
ARTICLE XVII
17.01 Will be Issued according to Company/Government regulations.
18.01	The Company agrees to maintain eight {81 bulletinboards on which the Union may post noticesofthe time aril place of meetings, recreations,social affairsand electionsand names of officers or accredited representativesand such other notices as may be approved by the Company. The Union shall deliver one copy of each such notice, to the Human Resources Department one-half hourpriorto posting.
REST PERIODS
ARTICLE XIX
19.01	Employees shall be entitled to two (2) rest periods of ten (10) minutes each per eight (8) hour shift and in the event of employees being required to work overtime, they Shall be given a ten (10) minute rest period tor each two (2) hours of overtime worked.
SAFETY AMP HEALTH
ARTICLE XX
20.01	The Company will make reasonable provision for the safety and health of the employees i nthe Plant during their working
hours' / /
20.02	A Union representative wilt be appointed by the Union to the Company's Safatv CQmmittoo to attend safety meetings. The Company agrees to notify this Union Safety Representative of any lost time accidents in the bargaining unit.
20,03	The Company will pay fifty ($50) dollars per contract year to provide safety shoes to all employees who are required to wear the;	,
29
21.01 No work Shall be performed by Employees outside the bargaining unit except in cases of emergency, experimental work, instruction of employees or for relief work.
21.01. The Chief Steward will be furnished with a cop- of 5™ Employee Report given to an employee
21.03	it is the Company’s Intention to provide the Union with an office on Company premises and locators lor the term of the contract.
21.04	(ft) Noemployeeshallbedlschsrgedordlscipilned except for lust causa. The Union agreesthat It will upholdthe rules and regulations of the Company in regard to punctual and steady attendance, proper notification Incase of absence and conduct on the job.
The
held rlt employee8 ni	any form of
9, a Shop Steward the ee	if requested
ii es that where meetings are 9	leir work or conduct, which
t	prlmand, discipline or dls-
r Union Repreaentative shall leave j do so >y the employee
ARTICLE XXII
TERMINATION AND RENEWAL
22.01	This Agreement shall remain in effect until April 30tht 1598 and shall continue in force thereafter from year to year unless eitnor party snail have oven sixty (60) days written notice to tne other of its desire to terminate the same. In tho event of such notice of __________-..........., ----,	,	,
lit totno other party, within fifteen (15) days thereafter its proposed amendments, if any, to this agreement and the parties agree to meet to commence negotiations with respect to such amendments within not later than a further period of fifteen (15) days.
30
EXECUTED at LEAMINGTON,Ontario this gZItt day of Ssptamber. 1994
FOR
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS -A.F.L. C.I.O. C.L.C, LOCAL 459
Ron Clark Tony Dama Gene Collard
31
APPENDIX “A"	A I .
RATES bVfjy
The Rulesand Regulationsof the Job Grading Plan as hereinafter written Shall be deemed lo be part of this Agreement.
The rates under the Job Grading Plan shall be as follows:
JOB GRADE
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8. 9.
10.
11.
EFFECTIVE MAY 1,1994
(JLJLfiiL>
15.99
16.12
16.30
16.42
16.51
16.66
16.80
17.12
17.86
18,17
When productivity meetstargets. Colawlll befolded Into wages 7 effective May 1st of each year. As per appendix "C"	l
RULES AND-REGULATIQNSjGQYERNING THE OPERATION OF JOB GRADING AND JOB GRADING-RATES
1.	As of October 3,1994, all Jobs have been correctly de-
scribed and assigned to Job grades, and wage inequities the’reby eliminated. Accordingly, no grievance alleging wage rate Inequities will be filed or processed except where a Job has substantially changed. Subsequent Jobs whose job descriptions and grading have been approved by the Union as hereinafter provided, will be considered as correct, and no grievance alleging wage rate inequl-lieswillbe filed.
2,	(a) A "change" in a job as referredto herein is one which
materially affects its content or requirements. Changes In a Icib description alone are not adequate to warrant regrading of an existing job;
32
„ (b) When a new job is established or an old job Is substantially changed, a job description for such new or changed job will be assigned to tne appropriate job grade, based on comparison with the other jobs in the Plant;
(c)	A copy of the job description of the new or changed job will be sent to the Union for approval at the earliest possible date after the job has been created, or the changes to the existing job have t ir madi I ttf rith a totation of th job ; rade;
(d)	Upon commencing an experimental job, changed job, or a new job a production employee will remain at the job rate which he regularly received prior to this job, until a job grade rate is assigned to the job. The job will be graded within a three (3) month period where possible;
(e)	if the Union believes that an existing job has changed lo an extent sufficient to warrant an adjustment in job grade, it shall notify the Company in writing of its contention and of the adjustment in job grade it contends to be appropriate. Such itice, insofar as oossible. shall be aiven to the Company within f..teen (15) working days after the change in the job is alleged io have occurred;
(f)	Any job description and grade proposed by the Company shall be considered accepted by the Union if no written complaint is filed by the Union within fifteen (15) working days after such job description and grade is submitted to the Union;
(g)	Upon receipt ot notice that a difference exists concerning the job description or job grading of a new or substantially changed job, the Company representative will meet with the Union
The Company will advise the Union in writing of their decision regarding the Said Job Description or Job Grade;
(h)	If the Company; -id the Union are unable to re, c i agree ment on the job description or job grading of a job within a reason able period of time, the difference will be submitted to an imoarlial arbitrator whose decision will be final and binding on both parties.
33
3.	The description and grading of jobs will be in compli-
ance with the following rules:
The descriptionand grading shall be of the job. not of the person performing It;
(b)	Duties not assigned or approved by management shall not be considered;
(c)	The grading Shall be based upon average requirements to perform thejob satisfactorily, ratherthan upon exceptionsto the average. Performance by specific individuals who are above or belowaveragewill not be consideredexcept where classified rates, as in the maintenancedepartments, apply;
(dt The grading shall be based upon the performance of a fair days work, and employees will be expected to maintain such standards;
(e) The job descriptions are lo be sufficiently accurate to reveaitnose features of the job that determine Its classiticatlon. At the same time they are not Intendedlo provide a complete listingof every individualteature of the job. If new duties which may be assigned at any time, become a permanentfeature of the work, the job shall be reconsidered as providedin Section 2.
4,	Jobs of lead personnel may be graded in accordance with the following procedure:
(a)	A Lead Person is one who:
1.	Instructs.
2.	sees that directions of the supervisor are executed,
3.	co-ordinates,
4. checks work.
5.	reports necessary information,and
fi performs necessary manual .	.	,
or major subdivision thereof. Jobs requiring the Incumbent to direct a small crew working with him are not classified as lead jobs, but such direction is included in the regular job description and evaluation.
Lead personnelwill receivethe established rate forthe classification of Lead in which they fall, as outlined by the job
34
gracing ogramms, with the provision that they will receive a rate at least 10 grade higher than the highest grade job which Ihey supervii
5.	(a) An employee who has 130 days of actual work with the Company within one period of employment is eligible for job grading rates:
(b)	Anemployeewithlessthan 130 days of actual work with
the Company who maintains seniority privileges	„
for lack of work and being reinstated, is eligible tor job g rading when he has accumulated 130 days of actual work with the Company, provided that the employee has a minimum of 65 working days since his reinstatement:
(c)	The Company maintains tt a prerogative to hire semi skilled and skilled employees at rates above the minimum wage rates as outlined in the collective agreement provided these rates are not inconsistent with the rates paid to employees in the same job classification;
(d)	Any employee on lob grading, who haslost hisseniority withtne Company by reason of a lay-off, shall, on rehiring, be treated as a new employee, and must accumulate the necessary service under Clause 5(a) hereof in order to again become eligible for job grading.
6.	(a) Each employee, respectively, shall be paid for all hours worked each day, the rate of the highest job grade at which he works if he spends fifty per centum (50%)or more of his daily working hours, including overtime in that job grade:
(b)	In the event an employee performswork in more than onejob grade and therefore works less than half of his daily work, ing hours at any single rate, he shall be paid an average rate based on the hours worked and the applicable job grade rates;
(c)	Employees who enterthe employ ofthe Company and become eligible for job grading, alter job grading is in effectwill be paid the rate establishedfor the job grade to which they are assigned, or when applicable, in accordance with the arrangements set forth in 6(a)ana (b) above.
7.	(a) All employees, except those employees receiving
35
classified rates shall receivethe appropriatejob grade loreacfoiob which they perform, with the stipulation that a minimum period of time of 15 minutes must be spent on the job before credit is given. Where less than 15 minutes is spent on the job, the jcb grade rate of the previous job performed shall apply, or where less than 15 minutes is spent on the first job upon commencing the shlf the employee shall receive the job grade rate of the job following, This clause is subject to ihe qualifications of Clause 6(a) and (b);
(b) (i) Employees regularly engaged on maintenance work Shalt be classified and receive that classification rate at all times for all work performed unless permanently oromoted. transferred or demoted. Maintenance em-transferred shall receivethe appropriate 'ob grade rates tor each lobthey perform.as definedin Clause 6(a) and (b);
(ii) Notwithstanding the above, hi§h-prassure welders will maintain their “A" rate after 15 years "A" welders service with the H. J. Heinz Company and 40 years of age, irresDectiveofthe results ol their high- pressure
(c)	(i) Employees regularly engaged in sterilizing in the Can
Filling Department shall be classified and receive that classification rate at ail times for all work performed inthe Can Filling Department. This rule will not apply it the sterilizer is promoted lo a job grade higher than the Sterilizer rate.
(ii) Employees regularlyengaged in sterilizing in this De-partmentwill have special seniority status similar to Ihe Maintenance Department regarding lay-offs.
Ion s they are sterilizing, they cannot be bumped off ir job by higher seniority employees from other _-r_.;ments who are being laid off due to a plant wide lay-off. This clause will not apply in the event oft permanent layoff in ihe workforce Applies to the January 1994 layoff group
(d)	Employees in the Production Equipment Cleanup_Department will have a special seniority status similar to the maintenance department regarding layoffs. As long as they are working inthe ProductionEauioment Cleanup Department, they cannot be bumped off their jib by higher seniority employees'from other
36
departments who are being laid off due to a plant-wide layoff. This special status will be reviewed in approximately one year by both parties. This clause will not apply In the event of a permanent layoff in the workforce. Applies to the January 1994 layoff
(e)	An employee being trained-tor a skillet ,	r
maintenance job shall troehTtrTfie job graHa-iata below the rale of the job for which he Is being trained until he Is fully qualified to perform the skilled job after which time he shall receive the job grade rate of the job. It is understood that should the employee fail to qualify for the skilled job within 130 working days of being trained he shall be returned to his former job.
Employees being trained for skilled maintenance jobs will be required to complete maintenance controls cards for this period of time. It shall be the exclusive function of Management to determine if an employee is fully qualified to perform the job for which he is trained, subject to the right of appeal by the employee through the grievance procedure.
8.	(a) Employees who are sent to the First Aid Department or to the doctor because of illness shall be paid the job grade rate they are earning at the time they left their Job for the first hour or less away, but shall not be paid for such time in excess of one hour;
(b)	Employees required to go to the First Aid Department or to the doctor for treatment of an injury received while working shall receive the rate of the job they were performing for time so spent. If an employee, due to Injury on the job is unable to return to the job, he shall be paid for the balance of the shift at the rate of the job he was performing when the injury occurred;
(c)	Employees who workonjobsgradedanthebasjsof the employee being required to wear goggles, respirators, orothersafety appliances, will be required to wear such equipment when performing the work which required such protection.
COMPANY PAID MEETINGS
9.	Employees will be paid at the grade rate of tl j< b they left, or if commencing a shift for the job they are to | fo i, for the time spent during working hours attending safety meetings, union meetings, and any meetings required by Management,
group.
37
REPORTING ALLOWANCE & CALL-IN PAY.
10.	An employee who is ordered to report for Wrk and can-
not be given work at the time he is told to report, shall be paid for such waiting time at the job grade rate at which he last worked on the preceding working day. when such an employee is sent home because work is not available, he shall be paid a minimum ofJour hours straight time at the job grade rate at which he last wormfiltd preceding working day. An employee who did not work thepfeced-ing working day snail be paid the job grade rate for the jojywhich he was scheduled to perform. If the employee works for ajmort period of time before he is sent home, he shall receive/thejob grade rate for this job performed for the remainder of his falKfn cav, or if the employee performs two or more jobs before h<Tis sent home, he shall receive (he job grade rate of the last job performed lor the remainder of his call-in pay. This call-in pay shall not apply in the event work is not available because of conditions beyond the control of the Company.
HOLIDAY
11.	Eligible employees shall receive eight (8) hours holiday allowance for paid holidays not worked, as outlined in the Collective Agreement in effect, at the rate paid those employees that last working day before the holiday.
12.	Highway transport drivers shall be paid a weakly rate.
1.	(a)(i) Highway Transport Drivers shall receive straight time
pay for all hours worked in excess of 10 consecutive hours or 48 hours in any one week period. For th purposes of this section, the hourly rate shall bi determined by dividing the weekly rate by 48;
(ii) HighwayTransport Drivers'drivingtime. including all breaks, tire checks, meals, etc., shall be paid on an hourly basis wilh the hours far each trip determined by the formula of 50 miles = 1 hour. Mileage distances are to be determined bytho Ontario Truckers’ Association mileage schedule;
38
(ili) Tima required for unloading, loading and approved delays will be paid at the regular, hourly, highway rate;
(iv)	Highway drivers will be paid the total of three quarters of an houratthe highway rate for checking equipment at the start of the shift and securing equipment at the finish of the shift. Driverswlll be issued a checklist which must be completed prior to departure and at finish of shift.
(v)	The daily pay will be adjusted by deducting any time absent from work during the normal scheduled working hours for personal reasons such as permission for medical and dentalappointments and other leaves of absence.
(b) Highway Transport Drivers shall receive time and one-half pay for all hours worked in excess of 44 hours i n any one week period:
c) If a night's layover becomes necessary due to a breakdown or a waiting period, the driver will not receive consideration for payment as stipulated in Section (a) beyond the time reauired to assure the safety of the truck and its contents;
(d)	if a night's layover occurs because of a breakdown or a waiting period, the driver will be sent to a hotel at the Company's expense;
(e)	In all cases proof of the cause of the delay may be requ ea, and If the delay is caused by the driver’s negligence no extra compensation will be paid.
2,	(a) A Highway Transport Driver who loses time through
an iraury, sickness, or disease, where Workers' Compensation benefits are not payable and on producing a medical certificate shall be paid his regular wages until he is eligible for his welfare indemnity;
(b) Where Workers' Compensation Benefits accrue on account of injury this will be In lieu of payment of wages by the Company.
3.	ja) Room and bed is furnished by the Company for Highway Transport Drivers spending overnight on a trip;
39
(b) A meal allowance of not over $8.00 will be paid for a meal a8 authorized per trip.
4.	(a) When a Highway Transport Driver is taken Off the highway (to work in the Transportation Department)lora period of up to a week, lor medical reasons,family sickness, etc., ne will receive his regularweekly wages;
(b) When a Highway Transport Driver is temporarily taken off the highway (to work in the Transportation Department) lor a period of longer than a week’s duration, for meriioal reasons and family sickness, he will receive the hourly rate of the job he performs.
5.	A Highway Transport Driver will qualify for holiday pay as outlined in the Collective Agreement.
6,	(a) It shall be the duty of the Company to maintain all
vehicles in safe operating condition in accordance with the Department of Highway Regulations;
/m No Highway Transport Driveris authorized to move his truck unless he knows it to be in good operating condition.
7	Highway Transport Drivers are not permitted to allow arw-
one other than employees of the employer who are on duty to ride on trucks except by written authorization of the employer,
6.	Highway Transport Driversare responsible lor the pro-
tection of their cargo at all times.
;	ighway 7 a isp( rt Drivers shall receive a maximum of
two unifor ns per year, the said uniforms to be designed by the Company. Replacements for Highway Transport Driver’s uniforms will be made upon return and surrender of a wornout uniform, A uniform under this clause shall consist of one Jacket and two pairs of trousers.
10,	Highway Transport Drivers shall be allowed two summer uniforms. 11
11.	Highway Transport Drivers shall be provided with a winter coat only as required.
40
12., Highway Transport Drivers are to be neat and courteous at ail times.
13.	Any Infringements by Highway Transport Driversof the above regulationswin bo subject to disciplinary action.
14.	Highway Transport Drivers will be responsible for any infractions of Municipal and Provincial Traffic laws.
15.	Local drivers shall receive the highway transport rate when they are on highway runs, for example to Windsor and
Chatham.
16.	The present practice ol allocating the local Saturday, Sunday and Holiday overtime to the local drivers will continue.
Thejobof Maintenance Line Operator (MLO) is established within the following departments:
Can Fill Can Label,
General Fill and Cereal
The low seniority maintenanceemployees will be assigned.
First year of Collective Agreement up to ten (10) Maintenance Line Operatorswill be assigned.
One(1) additional Maintenance Line Operator can be added each year of the Agreement on an as required basis up to a maximum of thirteen (13).
The Maintenance Line Operator will replacea regular position on the line when required.
S1 normal maintenance work, capital maintenance work and PM’sare required, the MaintenanceLineOperatorwill perform this work in his own department.
41
The MaintenanceLlna Operatorwill maintain his classified rate of pay.
The pilotprqigg( yvill be implementedinthe Cereal Department by July 1st, 1994.	1
Cost f living formula modified to 1 cent for each 3/10% rise In the I for the period May 1st to Apr!I 30th, payal	only when
itivlty mggjg_thaiollowing target i: 7	—
FV95-	34	dozen#2 tins par manhours	i
FY96-	36	dozen#2 tins per man hours	jt
FY97-	37	dozen#2 tins per manhours
FY98 -	38	dozen#2 tins per man hours''
Amount of payout will be folded Into wages effective May 1st of each year.
Retroactive COLA will bepatd by separatechequeforall hours worked between Mav 1st to April 30th. to be paid in June Of each year.
In addition to the COLA formula, If productivity exceeds the annual adjusted levels, employees will receive a lump sum payout by separate cheque to be paid In June of each year.
FY95 the following formula will apply: f-	/
r f «■
0 per hour worked 10 per hour worked 20 per hour worked
30 hour worked 40 per hour worked SO per hour worked 60 per hour worked
34	dozen #2 tins per man hours = $0,
35	dozen #2 tins per man hours = $0
36	dozen #2 tins oer man hours = $0,
37	dozen #2 tins man hours * $0,
38	dozen#2 tins per man hours= $0.
39	dozen#2tins per man hours = $0,
40	dozen#2 tins per man hours* $0,
Any additional 1 point improvementwill produce an additional $0.10.
42
At the beginning of each additional fiscal year, the Unlon/Man-agement Committee will post the annual adjusted levels based on the factory budget.
APPENDIX “D”
EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTION	„
CONTINUATION GUARANTEE	)-2
Heinz Canada shall remain a year round operation and expects that regular employment at Leamington shall not decline below the levels specified below, except for reductions resulting from:
*	capital Improvements
*	process changes
*	loss of sales
*	Attrition (death, dismissal, quits, retirements)
For the purposes of this guarantee, the factory employment level Is defined as 600, plant and salaried employees minus subsequent attrition resulting from all reasons unrelated to transfer of product.
The Company agrees that the following product line will remain in Leamington for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
*	tomato juice
*	bottled and tin ketchup
*	wet baby foods
*	beans
*	pasta
*	tomato soup
*	dry baby cereal
*	barbecue sauce
*	U.S. toddler baby food
*	chill sauce
*	pizza sauce
*	tomato sauce
*	sloppy Joe sauce
*	tomato paste (tin)
*	vinegar
*	mustard
*	vol/pac
Employees hired after May 1st 1994. shall not be considered in determining whetherTfipTollowing guarantee shall gerfnto effect.	..
If the permanent level of employment is reduced below the 600 plant and salaried employees minus subsequent attrition resulting
aa
from all reasons unrelated to transfer of product with no reason-' able expectation of replacement, such employment remains below the level specified above for a continuous six (6) month period resulting in a breach of thisguarantee, the following provisions will go into effect:	Ej^ p\_ |
*	employees wifi from the time of the original breach receive an addjjjgnal $0.75 per hour wage increase o
*	'	y
severance shall be Increasedto two (2) weeks per year of continuous service for those affected	.
?JlM

APPENDIX "E! PENSION AGREEMENT
32--2-0
BETWEEN:
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY OF CANADA LTD
Leamington, Ontario
(hereinafter called the "Company") -and-
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL W<
Affiliated with A.F.L. - C.1,0. and tt ' Canadian Labour Congress on behalf o* its i nnai aw
(hereinaftercalled the "Union")
(a) “Plan” nr "Pension Plan" means the “Hourly-rated Employees Pension Plan" set forth in Piar "A1" hereto or such amended or substitute plan as the parties may agree upc n pursuant to the pro visions of this Agreement, with the following amendments:
44
,	ARTICLE XX
AMOUNT OF RETIREMENT ALLOWANCE-UNDER THE PLAN
The lirst paragraph of Section 2 is amended to read as follows:
2) For retirements on or after January 1,1991, the minimum Retirement Allowance payable to a Member shall be equal to $29.00 per month multiplied by the number of years of his Creditable Service (within the meaning of the Old Plan or this Plan, as applicable).
The Plan will incorporate the following features:
a)	1-1/2 per cent of the average of the best five years of the last ten years.
b)	50 per cent spouse benefit - surviving spouse of pensioner to receive 50 per cent of the basic pension.
c)	Contribution - 4 per cent of Gross Earnings.
d)	Supplement of $19.00 per month per year of pension service, with a maximum service of 30 years.
e)	COLA on pensioners receiving this pension - 75 per cent of consumer price index to a maximum of 6 per cent.
t) Pensioners wltl receive either the minimum guarantee or the percentage formula, whichever Is greater.
45
IN WITI :SS A :RI 31 the p riles hereto have caused their names to be subscribed to this Agreement by their respective duly authorized representatives this 27th ol September^ 994
FOR THE COMPANY:
Jim Whittal
Frank Findlow FOR THE UNION:
46
July 16,1994
Mr. Gene Collard
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie St. S.
Leamington, Ontario N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Collard:
RE: ElectricalApprenticeship
The Company wishes to confirm by letter, the following matters with the Union. Itls agreed that electricians, who qualify and undertake a Government Apprenticeship Training programme, will receive the following rate of pay:
1.	A new emplovee will receive the hiring rat# and 65-dav working rate as determined by the Company until he Is qualified'for the Job Grading Programme. At this time, he will receive the rate of an electrician "C" until he qualifies for the "B” rate as specified below.
2.	An employee, who is transferred from elsewhere in the plant and is on the Job Grading Programme, will receive the job grade below the rate of electrician "C" for a period of up to 130 working days after which he will receive the rate of electrician "C" until he qualifies for a “B" rate as specified below. A transferred employee, not on job grading, will receive the hiring and 65 working day rates as determined by the Company, provided he works a minimum of 130 working days before he becomes eligible to be classified as an electrician 'rC''.
3.	A “C” electrician, who has successfully completed his intermediate courses and has completed 66-2/3 of his total apprenticeship training hours and is capable of performing “B" work will receive the11B1' electrician’s rate for the remainder of his neriod of the apprenticeshiptraining programme.
4- Employeeswill receive subsidizationfrom the Company while absent at the electricalapprenticeshipschool.
47
5.	Employees will be eligible forC.O.L.A. payments for the hours spent at the electrical apprenticeship school
Yours truly
T, James Whittal Department Manager Industrial Relations
July 16, 1994
Mr. Gene Collard President, Local 459 United Food& Commercial Workers 261 Erie St, S.
Leamington, Ontario N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Collard:
The following is In confirmationol the terms of the Company'slong term total disability lnsuran®mgn^^ ^
1.	A benefit of$951Lper'monfh less a deduction of 4% as the employee's annuSTmaximum contribution to tho pensionfund lor " Joyee Is totally disabled but notalterthe normal
as long as the em retirementat age
2.	The employee's annual maximum pension contributlor wil jncr9£is$ 9lS the monthly benefit iindar iha nlan Increases
3.	The premiums for the employee’s continuing life insurance coverage will be'pfifd by (he company during the oeriStTrSTTona termToral dtsabilitv insurance benefit payments '	”
4.	The employee must submit medical evidence satisfactory to the insurance company for acceptance of his claim and as required during the period of total disability Insurance payments
5,	The long term total disability Insurance plan iseffective after the completion of 52 weeks of weekly Indemnity payments.
48
6.	The employee may also qualify for Canada Pension Plan disability payments. The total benefit of the long term total disability insurance plan plus the Canada Pensir,n plan riie=hilitv payments, etc, cannot exceed the 66 2/3% IJ.I.C.
7.	Eligibility for benefits is one year seniority prior to the claim for weekly indemnity which qualifies the emDlnvee to annlv for the long term total disability Insurance plan
8.	Employeesreceivinglongterm total disability insurance benefits will have normal pension benefits accumulated during the period of long term total disability.
9.	If the employee ceases to be totally disabled, the long term total disability insurance will terminate.
10.	if the employee continuesto be disabled to the extant he is unable to perform any of the jobs available at the H. J. Heinz Company of Canada Ltd, nis longterm disability Insurancewill continue provided he does not accept employment elsewhere.
11.	The Company agrees to qualify employees, whose compensation paymenfsarediscontinuedandthey are unable to work under the long term total disability plan, with the following provisions.
(a)	This will be on a trial basis lor the term of the Agreement.
(b)	Any compensationpension receivedfrom Workers'Compensation will be deducted from the longterm disability payments.
(c)	The employee must agree to perform any work that is
available in order to qualify for the long term total disability provisions.
Yours truly,
T, James Whittal Department Manager Industrial Relations
49
Dear Mr. Collard:
July 16, 1994
Mr. Gene Collard
President. Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie St. S.
Leamington, Ontario N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Collard
As discussed during negotiations when the day before Christina and Ihe day before New'Year’s Day falls on a Saturday or Sunday
the Company will have the option of observing these davs ---
other dav durina the Christmas holiday *wi,v
This will be implemented on a trial basis lor the term of the agreement.
Yours truly,
T. James Whittal Department Manager Industrial Relations
50
July 16,1994
Mr. Gene Collard
President, Local 459
United Food & Commercial Workers
261 Erie St. S.
Leamington, Ontario N8H 3C4
Dear Mr. Collard
_E:_____' 'ng Trust Fund
Concerning the recent Memorandum ol Settlement between the Company and the Union as agreed upon, the Company wishes to confirm by letter, the following matter concerning the training trust fund.
1.	A fund of $200,000 per contract year will be spent by the Company for training.
2,	The Company will have the option of not spending the committed monies if the government passeslegislation requiringthe Company lo contribute to e government fund.
The Company agrees to renew the July 16, 1994, Letter of Understanding. As an alternative, the Union/Management Committee will review the option of setting up a joint education training and trust fund with the condition ot securing additional funds from the Federal and/or Provincial government(s).
Yours truly,
T, James Whittal Department Manager Industrial Relations
51
GRADE 1 - RATES $ 15.65
1.	Air Washer Operator
2.	Caretaker “B"
3.	Case Folder
4.	Hand Packer "B"
5.	Pork Sheer Attendant
6.	Reconditioning Works'
7.	Semi-Automatic Packer Operator “B'
GRADE 2 - RATFS $ 15.99
1,	Case Filer
2,	Container Inspector
3,	Container Inspector-Back Labels
4,	Cooler Worker
5,	General Worker "E
6,	Shroud Remover
7,	Sorter-Inspector 1 11
1.	Automatic ContainerUncaser
2.	Bean and Grain Room ODerator
3.	Belt Unloader
4.	Can Line Supplier
5.	Can Opener Operator
6.	Caretaker" A
7.	Cheese Preparer
8.	Cluster Pack Machine Operator
9.	ContainerDumper "A
10.	Cooler Operator
11.	D & R Clerk
12.	D & R Worker
13.	General Worker "A"
14.	Hand Packer “A”
15.	Kitchen Helper
16.	Material Supplier
17.	MushroomLme Operator
52
I,	8.	Pork S/icer Operator
19.	Pulper and Finisher Operator
20.	Retort Basket Loader
21.	Seamer Operator
22.	Semi-Automatic Basket Unloader
23.	Semi-Automatic Packer Operator "A"
24.	Spice Worker
25.	Tomato Wagon Unloader
26.	Unscrambler Operator
27.	Weighup Worker UB“
28.	Worcestershire Sauce Mixer
GRAPE 4 • RATES $ 16.30
1.	Automatic Case Former Operator
2.	Bottle Depalletlzer Operator
3.	Cereal Bin Attendant
4.	Chill Sauce Operator
5.	Cleanup Worker "A
6.	ElevatorOperator
T.	Empty Glass Depalletizer Operator
6.	ExportWorker
9.	Flume Operator
10.	Fresh Fruit Peeler Operator
II.	Grinder Operator. Str. Meats
12.	Knife GrinderOperator
13.	Labeller Operator
14.	MixerOperator
15.	Mobile Sweeper Operator
16.	Palletizer Operator
17.	Pasta Batch Mixer
16.	Pulp MixerOperator
19.	Salt Dispenser
20.	Scalds r Operator
21.	Second Process Operator
22.	Sleeving Machine Operator
23.	Steam Peeler operator
24.	Utility
25.	Vegetable Steam Injector Operator
26.	Vinegar Maker
27.	Weignup Worker “A"
28.	Weight Checker
53
■	rates
Automatic Packer and Sealer Operator
Automatic Packer Operator
Bean Blancher Operator
Can Production Mechanic C
Car Loader- Manual
Checker- Mixed Pickup
Checker- Trucks
Controls Electrical "C"
Cook "B”
Filling Line Operator Filter Operator. Fruit Juices Fork Lilt Operator GeneralFilling Mechanic “C" Groundskeeper - Waste Disposal Maintenance Mechanic"C"
Mixed Pickup orderWorker Mustard Maker Pallet Car Loader Palletizing Equipment Operator Supply OrderWorker Utility. RE.C.
Vegetable Maintenance Mechanic C Welder "C"
■	FIATES 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 * 9 * 11 12 13 14
GRADE 5 $ 16.42
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
GRADE 6 $16.51
1.	Battery Charger
2.	Cleanup Worker - Circulation
3.	Cold Storage Attendant
4.	Filler Operator - Bulk Paste
5.	Local Driver
6.	Meat Room Attendant
7.	Miscellaneous Shipper
6.	Paste Top Man Tank Loader
9.	Pouch Filler Operator
to.	Pump Operator - Paste Storage
11.	Tank Sterilizer
12.	Tank Truck Loader
13.	Vinegar Worker "B"
14.	Vol Pak Operator
54
GRADE 7 - RATFfi $16.65
1.	Cereal Filling Line Operator
2.	Cold	Fill Ketchup Line Operator
3.	Cook	“A"
4.	DCS	Operator
5.	DCS	Field Operator
6-	Drum Drier Operator
7.	Paste Storage Clerk
8.	Product Sterilizer
9.	Stockkeeper “B” - Central Stores
10.	Vinegar Worker" A
11.	Votator Operator
GRADE8-RATES $16.80
1.	Can Production Mechanic "B"
2.	Controls Electrician “B”
3.	General Filling Mechanic "B”
4.	Highway Transport Driver
5.	Lead "B"
6.	Machinist "B”
7.	Maintenance Mechanic "B”
3.	Material Handling Equipment Mechanic “B1 9.	Vegetable Maintenance Mechanic "B”
10.	Vegetable Receiver
11.	Welder “B"
GRADF fl ■ RATFfi $17.12 1 2
1.	Lead "A"
2,	Stockkeeper "A” - Central Stores
55
1.	Can Production Mechanic “A”
2.	Construction Worker "A
3.	Control 'A
4.	Electrician'A'
5.	General Filling Mechanic "A"
6.	Machinist"1"
7.	Maintenance Mechanic "A"
8.	Material Handling Equipment Mechanic“A"
9.	Stockroom Lead
10.	Vegetable Maintenance Mechanic "A
11.	Welder "A
1. Maintenance Lead "A
56