SOURCI				
m.	9>1		ip)	/)/
MZL-.			E	A(
Me. Of EMftOVm		■W		
NOM«{ O'tMPipYis		JA-		
l&AftiS rlALL£T FOODS
A Division of Jim Pattisoti Industries Ltd.
SM®38 Road. ^. C.
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL.WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL^430# Unit B - 5261 Lane Street^ Ll'^7 Burnaby, B. C. V5H 2H4	< '
^ r
7'
March 1, 1987	December 31, 1988
"SEP H W>
V363 02j
ARTICLE 4 - TINT ON SECURITY
4.01	Any employee to whom Article 1 applies who at the date of this Agreement is member of the Union, or who, hereafter during the life of this Agreement becomes a member of the Union, shall as a condition of continued employment maintain membership in
good standing.
4.02	All employees within the bargaining unit shall, as a condition of employment become members of the Union and maintain such membership in good standing. New employees shall sign an application form for union membership and become members after the completion.
of twenty-five (25) days worked.
4.03	The Company shall commence the deduction of union dues and initiation fees from new employees on the first pay day after the new employees have completed twenty-five (25) days worked. Special assessments, if levied in accordance with the Constitution and By-laws of the Union will be deducted from the members of the Union upon proper notification by the Union.
4.04	All union dues, initiation fees and assessments so deducted shall be remitted by the Company within ten (10) days after the date of said deductions, together with a list of names of the employees from whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction to the Financial Secretary of Local 430P, United Food and Commercial Workers, and a copy of the list to the main office of the Union, Unit B - 5261 Lane Street, Burnaby, b.C. V5H 2H4
4.05	Upon receipt of authorization signed by an employee, the Company agrees to deduct the amount of union initiation fee from the earnings of the employee who has signed such authorization. The Company further agrees to submit the sum so deducted to the Union in the manner prescribed in Article 4, Section 4.04. All union dues and initiation fees and assessments to be collected by the Company through the office. Initiation cards to be left with the Company for new employees to sign.
ARTICLE 5 - SENIORITY
5.01	A seniority Hat shall be established forthwith by the Company for all employees who have accumulated twenty-five (25) days service with the Company, and whose services were terminated by a lay-off and who, when called to work complied with Section 5.05, subsection (c) of this Article. An employee's seniority shell then date retroactively to the date he or she commenced the twenty-five (25) days accumulated period.
5.02	Seniority lists as of the date of ratification shall be frozen. New employees shall be listed showing employee no., name and date of hire. Seniority lists shall
be adjusted every month by the Company in cooperation with the Shop Stewards and posted onthe Union Bulletin boards. The lists shall be subject to correction on representation from the Grievance Committee.
5.03	(a) Lay-offs and re-employment shall be based on eeniority, that is, the last hired shall be the first laid off and the last laid off shall be the first recalled, provided the senior employee is qualified to perform the work available, or can qualify within a reasonable period of time, not exceeding 25 days. The word qualified shall be interpreted to mean, the ability to perform the job satisfactorily without assistance.
(b)	The Union and the Company agree to make every effort to ensure the employees are informed of their responsibility to notify the Company and the Union of the expiration of any leave of absence or sick leave, and any change of address or telephone number.
3
5.04	(a) In the case of temporary transfer the basis of transfer shall be made by seniority, with the senior qualified employee being asked first and so on down the applicable seniority list, until by this process the temporary vacancy has been filled. Should the vacancy not be filled by this procedure then the basis of transfer shall be the junior qualified employee available in the plant.
00 Classified employees shall not be required to perform work outside their posted classification when work is required within their classification or as otherwise mutually agreed.
5.05	Seniority shall be forfeited under the following circumstances:
(a)	If an employee is discharged for just cause and such discharge is not reversed by the Grievance Procedure.
(b)	If the employee voluntarily resigns.
(c)	After being laid-off by the Company, fails to report to work when recalled or . cannot be located after a reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The method of contact by telephone, followed by a double registered letter to the employee at his last known address shall constitute a reasonable effort on the part of the Company, and if within three (3) working days of receipt of such notice the employee fails to report for duty, or advise the Company that he or she will report within five (5) working days, the Company shall be entitled to assume that the said employee left the Company service voluntarily.
(d)	When an employee has been laid off for a period in excess of 24 months.
5.06	(a) Leave of absence must be given in writing upon being granted by the Management end the employee shall have it initialled by a designated member of the Supervisory Staff and a disignated Union officer in the plant. In no case shall such leave be for over three months, but it may be extended upon agreement between the parties hereto.
<b) No more than two employees at one time who are appointed or elected to do business for the Union shall, upon written application, be granted leave of absence without p-to attend to such business. Such employees shall continue to accumulate seniority for1 the period covered by this Agreement, and upon giving the Company one (1) week's notice in writing of their intention to return to work, shall be reinstated in the job held prior to the leave of absence or its equivalent, at the same rate of pay.
5.07 (a) Time off on compensation for any accident or mishap incurred in the Company's employ shall be counted as days worked for all purposes of this Agreement.
(b) Any employee absent due to illness or leave of absence to attend Union business shall be given credit for days, as though he or she had actually worked, up to an amount equal to % of their working days, per calendar year, for a maximum period of two years. The onus shall be on the employee to produce such proof as a Doctor's certificate to substantiate any illnesses,
5.08	It is agreed that when a shortage of work occurs , employees with the greatest seniority shall be entitled to such work as is available, except in the case of breakdowns or unexpected shortages of materials when the work available is already being performed by other employees and is of one (1) hour or less duration. In such case the employees performing the work shall be entitled to complete said work regardless of seniority for the one (1) hour or less remaining of that work day.
- 4 -
5.09	Each employee will be given a seniority number to correspond with the seniprity position. The most senior employee will be number 1, the next senior employee will be number 2 and so on down until the last employee hired will have the greatest number. Lay-off on the job and rehiring shall then be made by seniority.
5.10	The Company agrees to grant any pregnant employee eight (8) months leave of absence during which time the employee shall not forfeit any of her seniority rights.
Such employee, provided she is a regular employee at the time of taking such leave of absence shall continue to accumulate seniority; subject to Section 5.07 (b) for such days as the employee would have worked if the employee was not on leave of absence.
It is agreed that no female employee shall have the right to continue working during the sixth, seventh, eighth and nineth months of her pregnancy, and upon return to work must present a medical certificate of fitness to perform the available work efficiently.
5.11 Technical specialists or persons whom the Company is training to fill technical positions may be employed in plant operations. The secretary of the Local Union shall be advised of such appointments and it is agreed that such appointments shall not exceed two (2) at any one time.
5.12	It is agreed that the retirement age for all employees shall be age sixty-five (65)
5.13	A day shall mean any day in which an employee is called in to work by authorization of the Company, and reports for work.
5.14	A regular employee shall be defined as an employee who has worked 155 days in a calendar year or who has worked 155 days continuously without lay-off except for a layoff that may occur between December 15th. of one year and January 15th. of the next year.
5.15	In the event of a lay-off in the operating season, the Company shall give as much notice as is practical to all employees. In the event of a lay-off in the non-operating season, the Company shall give twelve (12) working hours notice or pay in lieu of notice. The operating season shall be defined as when the Company is packing perishable goods.
ARTICLE 6 - PROMOTIONS
6.01	In the bargaining unit, the filling of vacancies shall be based on ability and seniority. Ability being sufficient, after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority ehajLj. prevail. A reasonable trial shall not exceed 25- days. Bnployees shall receive the applicable job rates provided for in the wage rate schedules for the job or jobs they have been posted or appointed to when they can regularly perform the job without assistance. If it is obvious that a person cannot qualify and is causing serious loss or damage to product or equipment, he or she may be removed, at any time..
6.02	All permanent vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be posted on the bullet board. The vacancy shall be posted for not less' than five (5) working days. An employee who is absent due to sickness, accident, vacation, leave of absence, or lay-off when a vacancy is filled shall receive equal consideration, provided the employee makes his or her request within seventy-two (72) hours after his or her return to work.
In the event that an employee returning from an absence due to the above, is a successful job bidder and displaces or bumps another employee, rate protection as provided in Article 10, Section 10.08 shall not apply to the displaced employee.
Successful applicant's names shall be posted within five (5) working days of the expiry date of the posting.
- 5 -
6.03	In addition,seasonal postings will be made once yearly, or as otherwise agreed, where it is expected that a seasonal vacancy will not exceed seven (7) continuous weeks. Those applying within five (5) working days from the time of posting will receive consideration for such seasonal vacancies on the basis of ability and seniority. Ability being sufficient after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail.
When an employee is assigned to such seasonal vacancy he will receive the applicable rate while performing these seasonal assignments. Trie Company will provide the Union with a copy of the applications fur such advanced postings, and the jobs to be posted will be mutually agreed upon.
Successful applicant’s names shall be posted within five (5) working days of the expiry date of the posting.
6.04	All job postings shall indicate the number of vacancies to be filled and only these vacancies shall be filled by the initial posting, if subsequent vacancies occur it shall require a new job posting.
6.05	The Chief Shop Steward will be notified no later than 5 working days after the expiry date of the job posting as to which applicant has been chosen to fill the vacancy.
ARTICLE 7___- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	Both the Company and the Union emphasize the desirability of a satisfactory grievance procedure which will be to settle as many grievances as possible promply and on the spot. It is agreed that consultation will take place; quietly, amicably and speedily so that any possible cause of friction may be reduced to a minimum.
7.02	A Grievance Committee consisting of not less than three (3) nor mere than five (5) employees of the Company shall be elected or appointed by the Union in a manner determined by them and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of that Committee.
7.03 Should there be cny dispute arising out of the interpretation of this Agreement or any clause or article thereof the matter shall immediately be dealt with as follows:
(a)	Between the aggrieved employee and the Union Steward, and the Foreman or Forelady
of the department concerned.
(b)	if the question is'not settled under Step (a) above, then between the Union Steward or Stewards (not to exceed two ), the aggrieved employee and the Plant Superintendent.
<c) If the question is not settled under Steps (a) or (b) above, then the Union may present the question in writing to a Committee comprised of three (3) members designated by the Company, three (3) members elected or appointed by the Union and the aggrieved employee. An outside representative of the Union may be called in if so desired.
(d) If the question is not settled under Steps (a), (b) or (c) above, then the dispute in question shall be referred to an Arbitration Board to consist of one <1) member appointed, by the Company and one (1) member appointed by the Union, and a third member mutually agreed upon by the other two who shall act as Chairman. In the event of failure to agree upon a third member, he or she shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour for the Province .of British Columbia. If either party fails to appoint a member to the Arbitration board within ten (10) working days, he or she shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour for the Province of British Columbia. The parties may deviate from the aforementioned procedure as contained in Section 7.03 (d) by the appointment of a mutually agreed upon single Arbitrator.
6-
(e)	There shall be time limits of three (3) working days between each step of the above mentioned procedure. The time limits referred to in this clause may be extended by mutual agreement.
7.04	When a settlement is reached at any stage of this procedure, it shall be finel and binding. Any settlement reached after Step (b) shall be in writing, and signed by both parties and shall indicate whether the settlement is either with or without prejudice.
7.05 When in the opinion of the Grievance Committee, a grievance shall be deemed urgent, it shall be dealt with without delay. Each step with the exception of Step (d) shall be carried out the day it is initiated at times best suited to the operation of the plant. There shall be no undue or unreasonable delay in the taking of Step (d).
All grievances shall be processed' on Company time.
7.06	All grievances after Step (c) of the Grievance Procedure shall be presented in witing. The Company shall then reply in writing stating reasons.
7.07	If an employee is dismissed for any reason whatsoever and feels that he or she has been unjustly dealt with, he or she shall promptly notify a member of the Grievance Committee who shall within seventy-two (72) hours of receipt of notice of dismissal by the aggrieved employee (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory Holidays) notify the Management that the dismissal in question shall be deemed a grievance. The dismissal shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the established grievance procedure set out in this Article beginning at Step (c) of the Grievance Procedure.
7.08	If it is subsequently decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed he or she shall be reinstated in his or her former position and shall be compensated for all time lost at his or her regular rates of pay or granted such lesser compensation as seems fair under the circumstances.
7.09	Union Stewards, the number to be decided by the Union, shall be elected or appointed by the Union in a manner determined by them and the Company shall be kept informed by the Union of the names of the Union Stewards.
7.10	If a Steward has to leave his or her job or department in connection with a grievance he or she shall first secure permission from the foreman or forelady before leaving the job or department. Such permission shall be granted as promptly as possible, but shall in no case exceed one (1) hour.
7.11	When the Company deems it necessary to discipline an employee they shall have a Union Steward present.
7.12	The Company must give the Local Union notice in writing of the discharge or suspension of any employee on the day such action is taken.
7.13	A Union Steward, or in his absence the Chief Steward or President, may discuss with his Foreman direct matters which may affect the welfare of employees under that Foreman's supervision, even though at the time same may not constitute a grievance.
Similar discussions may take place between a Union Officer and the Plant Superintendent or his designated representative.
ARTICLE 8 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
8.01	The Company shall make reasonable provision for the, safety, and health of all employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices, waterproof clothing and other equipment necessary to properly protect employees from injury or ill-health shall be provided by the Company, where necessary and not indiscriminately.
8.02	The Company, with the full co-operation of the employees, agrees to keep the plant clean, healthful, sufficiently well-ventilated and lighted at all times, and agrees to pay particular attention to the question of senitation.
8.03	A Safety Committee shall, be maintained comprising of three (3) members designated by the Company and three (3) members elected or appointed by the Union. This Committee shall meet regularly at least once a month. Any member of the Committee may cell a special meeting when he or she feels a situation exists that endangers the health or safety of employees. All decisions made at the Safety Committee meetings shall be put into effect immediately. A recording secretary who has been mutually agreed to by the members of the Committee shall keep formal minutes of these meetings and lssuq a copy to all members of the Committee.
8.04	To regular employees the Company, upon proof of purchase, shall contribute $25.00 towards the cost of C.S.A. approved Safety Boots or Shoes for on the job usage with a maximum of one pair per calendar year,
8.05	The Company agrees that when a W.C.B. inspector arrives at the Plant for the purposes of an inspection visit or attending to the investigation of an accident a Unio«-safety committee member shall be informed and given the opportunity to meet with the inspector.
8.06	Employees who successfully complete an Industrial First Aid Course shall be re-imbursed 100% of the course fees upon proof of successful completion. Application for re-imb;ursement shall be made in advance of course enrolment,- and limited to numbers of employees required to maintain First Aid coverage in the Plant.
ARTICLE 9 - VACATIONS
9.01	(a) All employees shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay after accumulating not less than 185 actual days worked. The rate of pay while on vacation shall be an amount equal to 4% of the total wages and salary earned by him or her for the previous year.
(b)	All employees shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay after complef.ir° four (4) years continuous service with the Company of not less than 700 actual days worked. The rote of pay while on vacation shall be an amount equal to six (6) percent
of the total wages and salary earned by him or her for the previous year.
(c)	All employees shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay after completing ten (10) years continuous service with the Company of not less than 1750 actual days worked. The rate of pay while on vacation shall be an amount equal to 8% of the total wages and salary earned by him or her for the previpus year.
(d)	All employees shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation witn pay arter completing seventeen (17) years continuous service with the Company of not less than 2975 actual days worked. The rate of pay while on vacation shall be an amount equal to 10% of the total wages and salary earned by him or her for the previous year.
- 8 -
(e)	All employees shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation with pay after completing
twenty-:five (25) years continuous service with the Company of not less than 4125 actual days worked.	The rate	of pay while on	vacation	shall be an amount equal	to 12%	of the
total wages and salary earned by him or	her for	the previous year.
(f)	Vacation eligibility requirements are based on accumulated service.
9.02	in the event of- an employee's employment terminating before the completion
of a working	year, such employee shall	be paid,	in lieu of vacations, an	amount	equal	to
the vacation	earned in	accordance with	the scale outlined within Section	9.01 of this
Article.
9.03	Employees shall be entitled to their holiday pay at least three (3) days prior to the beginning of their annual vacation. There is no provision whereby employees may receive pay in lieu of vacation.
9.04	Seniority shall be the determining factor for establishing employees' vacation periods. Employees with the greatest seniority shall have the right of choice in the event all the employees desiring a certain period cannot be spared at one time.
9.05	For the purpose of this Agreement, a week's vacation shall be defined as a calendar week, consisting of 7 consecutive days. The calendar week for the purpose of vacation shall be deemed to commence on the first regular working day in which the employee is
on vacation. Employees on vacation shall continue to accumulate seniority, and the period of vacation shall be considered as days worked for the purposes of this Agreement.
? 06 No carry-over of vacations:	Every employee shall take his vacation in the
vacation season in which he becomes eligible for it and vacation periods shall not be accumulated from year to year except under special conditions mutually agreed upon between the Plant Manager and the employee.'
9.07	An employee who returns to work following an absence covered by Workers' Compensation, or sick pay up to the time limits as outlined in the collective agreement, shall receive service credit for the period of absence, not to exceed 52 weeks, as if the employee had been at work earning wages or Statutory Holiday pay at his regular straight time rate of pay. No credit shall be received for any period in which the employee would otherwise have been laid off.
ARTICLE IQ ~ WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
10.01	Wages and classifications shall be in accordance with Schedule "A" which is attached. The Company agrees that any new classification or wage adjustment that may become necessary shall be covered by a supplement of this Agreement, which supplemer' shall include any adjustments to the present wage rates made necessary by such new classifications, Additions or changes to the present wage schedule, due to changes in plant operations or changes in work performed on a job, shall be the subject of collective bargaining between the Company and the Union. A copy of the Authorized rate schedule shall be made available to the Chief Steward in the Plant Superintendent's office for reference upon request.
10.02	Any female workers placed on any job or classification formerly occupied by a male worker must receive the rate for such classification provided, however, she is capable of doing the work without further assistance.
- 9 -
10.03	An itemised computation of on employee's pay shall be shown on the employee's
pay slip accompanying it, showing hours worked and rate of pay per hour and all deductions When pay cheques are issued they shall be contained within an envelope. An itemized estimate of deductions from vacation pay shall be provided with the vacation pay cheque. The Company agrees to compute the amount of union dues deducted for each employee to December 31st.. in each year and shall transmit the same to the employee for Income Tax purposes.
10.04	Pay cheques shall be available to employees by 12:00 noon every second Friday. Payday shall not be changed in the event of a Statutory Holiday occurring earlier in the week or if a Statutory Holiday occurs on a Friday, payday shall be advanced to Thursday.
10.05	All time worked shall be paid for up to the nearest quarter of an hour and accumulated and embodied in the employee's total hours at the end of each pay period for the purpose of computing the employee's pay.
10.06	If an employee substitutes in any department or on any job during the temporary absence of another employee, he or she shall receive where the job pays less, his,or her former rate of pay and where the job pays more, the rate applicable to the' temporary job for all hours worked on the temporary job. If the employee spends 50% or more of his or her time on the job, he or she shall receive the rate for the full shift.
10.07	Employees who lose their seniority for any reason and are rehired or retained in the Company's employ shall not lose the credit for their days of experience in computing their pay rates and shall not have their pay rates reduced unless a break of one year occurs in their service.
10.08	(a) When a regular employee receives a classified rate, he or she shall if permanently transferred to a lower rated job, continue to receive his or her classified rate for all hours paid on the thirty (30) days worked following such transfer, after which the lower rate shall be paid. When an employee is transferred to a lower rated job at his or her request, then the lower rate of pay shall apply immediately.
(b)	The word "permanent" as used above shall be interpreted to mean 52 weeks. However, employees may be temporarily returned to their previous classification for a period of 15 days worked. If the days worked exceeds 15 days, the employee will be re-instated in the classification.
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
11.01	(a) The hours of work shall be eight (8) hours in any one day, forty (40) hours in any one week. Employees shall be paid at a rate equal to time and one-half (1%) their regular rates of pay for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours and up to and including ten (10) hours in any one day. when an employee works in excess of ten (10) hours in any one day such employee shall be paid at a rate equal to double his or her regular rates of pay.
(b) For the purpose of calculating if overtime is payable, the Company shall set out an Hours of Work Schedule and negotiate with the Union. The Union recognises the needs of the business in negotiating changes in the Hours of Work Schedule. The Schedule of Hours may vary from department to department but shall not total more than forty <V>n^ hours of any payroll week and must not exceed more than eight (8) hours per day,
Monday through Saturday, except Engineers and where otherwise mutually agreed upon.
10
(C) Full time employees who are regula^v-scheduled to work on calendar Saturdays and/or Sundays shall be paid one and one-half times their regular rates for all scheduled hours worked on such days. Such payment of time and one-half will not be paid when the overtime rate of double time for work on a public holiday asset out in Article 12, Section''t2vQ3r'ls applicable.
(d)	Employees with 60 days worked shall receive a premium of one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour for-hours worked at regular rates on calendar Saturdays. Such premiums shall not be considered a part of such employees basic rates. Saturdav work shall be performed on a voluntary basis.
(e)	The working of overtime shall be a voluntary decision of the individual employee who, when asked to work overtime, shall not be penalised in any manner for declining
to do so. If overtime is necessary and of more than one (1) hour's duration, employees with the greater seniority shall be asked to perform such jobs as necessary, providing they have the necessary qualifications.
(f)	If an employee agrees to work overtime, the full overtime shift must be completed, or as otherwise agreed.
(g)	A posted Hours of Work Schedule shall be maintained by the Company and posted on the bulletin board. All employees shall be advised of what department they shall be required to work in and the starting time of their next shift prior to leaving the plant -or the day. If subsequent changes are required the Company shall attempt to notify the employee immediately.
11.02	The Company agrees to pay double the employee's regular rates of pay'for time worked on Sundays, Statutory Holidays and. other days declared a holiday by the- Government, except to employees whose schedule calls for work on Sunday. The employees normal day off in lieu of Sunday will be paid at the appropriate Sunday overtime rate if worked.
The Company further agrees to give as much notice as possible when it is necessary to ask employees to work on these days.
.11.03 (a) Every employee shall be entitled to a fifteen (15) minute rest period without deduction of pay at such times as may be designated by the Company, but as close to midway between the time of commencement and the time of completing each half shift as may be practical or possible. The Company agrees to make every effort to monitor and not abuse this section.
(b) A further rest period of fifteen (15) minutes with pay be granted by the Company at the completion of the employee's regular shift if such employees are required to work more than one-half (%) hour or more of overtime.
11.04	Any employee who reports for work and who by reason of a breakdown or any
other cause for which he or she is not responsible, is dismissed for the day, shall receive at least four (4)	hours' pay at	his	or her	regular rate of pay.
11.05	Any employee who reports for work	and	due to	a breakdown or shortage of
material or other reascmhe or she is required to put in a period of waiting time, such time will be paid to the employee at his or her regular rates of pay.
11.06 When an employee is especially called back to work in case of an emergency •'ufR-Jde his or her normal	working hours,	he	or she	shall be through when the emergency
is over but shall be paid	for four (4) hours	at his	or her job rate or for the	hours
actually worked at overtime pay whichever is the greater. The Union shall be informed of the personnel called in to perform such emergency work.
11
11.07	When a scheduled night shift is cancelled, senior employees on that shift shall be called in for the following day shift if there is a day shift scheduled.
Night shift employees desiring to work a day shift when their own shift is cancelled shall leave their names with the Company.
11.08	A premium of 25 cents per hour shall be paid to all employees with 60 or more days worked for all hours worked between 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. The premium shall apply during overtime, but shall not be subject to time and one-half provisions.
Shifts starting between 4:30 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. shall be subject to the above provisions.
11.09	If employees are required to work overtime in excess of two (2) hours beyond their normal quitting time, the Company will provide a meal or an overtime meal allowance
of three dollars and fifty cents ($3.50) and allow thirty (30) minutes at regular rates for such meal period.
ARTTCLF, 12	- STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
12.01	The Company agrees to pay all employees at their regular rates of pay for the normal hours of work as set forth in the Hours of Work Schedule on each of the following public holidays:
whether they work or not. The Company and the Union agree that the employees eligible for these paid Statutory Holidays shall only be those employees who have accumulated sixty (60) days of actual work and have been called to work and worked on one of five (5) working days immediately preceding the holiday or five (5) days immediately following the holiday. Employees must work the day before and the day after the holiday if work is available unless absence has been previously authorized or substantiated because of personal illness.
w«mi0yees with 600 or more working days, but who were laid off subsequent to December 15th. and called in the following year prior to January 15th., will be eligible for holiday pay for December 24th., Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and New Year's Day, provided they work up to the last shift prior to the discontinuance of operations for the Christmas season and report for work when recalled when operations resume.
12.02 The Company agrees to pay to an employee who would otherwise qualify for Statutory Holiday pay under this Article but who is receiving sick pay or Workers' Compensation, the difference between sick pay or Workers' Compensation, as the case may be, and eight hours' pay at his regular rate.
12.03	If a paid holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the Company will allow the employee concerned a compensatory day’s holiday with pay, one day prior to vacation or one day after vacation.
12.04	If a paid holiday falls on a day outside an employee's schedule, the employee shall receive the Friday before or the Monday after the holiday in lieu of the holiday. The provisions of this clause will not apply to July 1st.
.05 Seasonal employees that have completed five (5) years consecutive service, shall, in their sixth (6th.) year be guaranteed a minimum of two percent (2%) of their annual earnings in the form of statutory holiday pay.
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
B.C. Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day
December 24th. Christmas Day Boxing Day
12
ARTICLE 13	- GENERAL
13.01	The Company agrees that the Union shall have the right to use the Company notice boards or to erect bulletin boards of their own (not to exceed three in number), in an appropraite place in the plant to be used for the posting of notices of official Union business.
13.02	The company agrees that employees elected or appointed to attend a convention to carry out Union business (not more than three at any one time), shall be granted leave of absence without pay upon the proper notification, provided this does not seriously disrupt the operation of the business.
13.03	All employees covered by this Agreement shall be supplied with aprons and
hair nets when necessary. All such aprons and hair-nets will be charged to the employee and replaced when damaged or worn out and the original charge shall be refunded when the employee terminates his employment with the Company. In order to have the aprons or hair nets replaced or to collect their refund, employees must turn in their aprons or hair nets. New gloves are to be provided by the Company when worn out Company gloves are turned in. Employees now being supplied with coveralls shall have the cost of cleaning paid by the Company,
13.04	The Company to issue locks for existing lockers.
13.05	An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours in the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs,
-•c, as a result of such injury he or she is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instructions from the medical department, but if such is not possible, then by a Company representative.
13.06	Shop Stewards and Union Executive members up to a maximum of three shall have time off to attend Union meetings provided this does not seriously disrupt the operation of the business.
13.07	Only those employees defined in Article 2, section 2.01, Definition, will be
permitted to perform bargaining unit work, except in the event of unforeseen lateness or temporary absenteeism, not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes in any one day.
13.08	It is understood, that where the word 'he1 is used in this Agreement, it shall also cover female employees.
13.09	All privileges and benefits which are not negotiated by this Agreement, but which are now enjoyed by the employees, shall remain in effect during the life of this Agreement
13.10	Employees who are required to bring tools to work, shall upon presentation of required tools broken or worn out on the job, receive replacement tools on a brand name basis wherever possible. At the end of each calendar year, a tool allowance of $10.00 will be paid for each month worked during the calendar year to all classified maintenance employees, end two (2) classified engineers. The Company shall provide tool insurance for the tools belonging to employees who are required to bring tools to work. The insurance shall cover up to $5,000.00 per employee for each loss with a $100.00 deductible for each loss to be borne by the employee. The terms of this insurance shall be governed by the policy of insurance. For label machine operators and general utility maintenance a tool allowance of $3.00 will be paid for each month worked during the calendar year.
- 13 -
13.11	When an employee with seniority is bereaved as a result or me aeam of an immediate family member (wife, husband, daughter, son, mother, father, sister and brother) he or she shall receive 24 hours pay at his or her regular rate of pay provided payments are made only in respect to absence from work on his or her regular work day. For
other relatives (mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother and grandfather) entitlement shall be for 16 hours pay.
Time off due to the death of a member of an employee's family must be taken at the time of bereavement.
13.12	Any regular employee of the Company summoned to appear for jury duty, or subpoened by the Court as a witness, shall be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for such service and the amount they would have earned, provided that they would have worked if they had not been on such duty.
13.13	(a) The Company sgi.ll provide the Union with four (4) months written notice- . o'f /intention to introduce} technological change whic^tni^t*resuTt^LiT^tKeTdisplacemen o''r 'reduction of personnS?r~™^T^"n^lce sEatT state the number of employees to be affected. The Company further agrees to meet with the Union within 30 davs of such notice to discuss the ramification of such change.
(b) Employees who become redundant due to technological change, shall be eligible for retraining if such trainin_q_j.s_ consistent with the employees -capabilities, to equip them for the operation of such new equipment or procedures, or to qualify for new positions. Such retraining will be provided by theCompany without loss ofypay to the affected employees.
“	& X —
(c)	In cases where the retraining of employees is not practicable, or where other positions with the Company are not available, the employees shall elect for termination of employment, or shall elect to be placed on the recall list. Employees on recall under the provisions of this clause shall report to work within the stipulated period of time as outlined in Article 5, section 5.05 (c) Seniority.
(d)	A specified extension of the recall period, where recall is applied under subsection (c) above maybe mutually agreed by the employee, the Company and the Union.
(e)	"Technological Change;' means (i) The introduction by the Company of a change in his work, undertaking or business, or a change in his equipment or material from the equipment or material previously used by the Company in his work, undertaking or business; or (ii) A change in the manner in which the Company carries on it's work, undertaking,'
or business	related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
13.14	It is	mutually agreed that	no demand shall be made by either party	to	this
Agreement upon the other party, which in any way contravenes laws, orders, or regulations issued by, or under the authority of the Government of Canada, or that of the Province of	British Columbia, or	such agency as may be assigned by either	of	such
Governments	from time to time in	regard to wages, bonuses, hours, conditions	of labour
or other related matters.
13.15	Employees who have accumulated 156 days worked will be eligible for benefits on the following sick pay and welfare plans, subject to the provisions of the Daybank System as provided by section 13.16 of this Article.
(a) In accordance with the provisions of the Sick Pay Plan, sick pay,, on the present cost sharing basis will be paid as follows:
Sick Pay will reflect a benefit level of 55% of the employees stiaLght time classified wage rate.
- 14 -
The amendments to the	jcuy cxuu will be effective upon date of ratification.,
The service scale for the duration of payment is as follows:
156 days to 390 days' seniority 391 days to 1300 days' seniority 1301 days to 1820 days' seniority
182.1	days to 2600 days' seniority 2601 days seniority and over
4 weeks 16 weeks 26 weeks 34 weeks 52 weeks
(b)	The Company will continue to pay the full cost of B.C. Medical to cover all regular employees and their dependents.
(c)	The Company will continue to pay the full cost of Major Medical Expense Benefits as presently covered.
<d) The Company will continue to pay Vision Care Expense Benefits to a maximum of $60.00 during any two consecutive calendar years as presently covered.
(e)	The Company will continue to pay Dental Benefits as presently covered based on a current fee schedule.
Effective January 1, 1988, the Company agrees to provide the U.F.C.W. B. C. Industrial Council Dental Plan covering:
(i)	Basic Dentistry at 807.
(ii)	Crowns, bridges and dentures at 50%
The premium costs shall be paid 1007. by the Employer.
(f)	The Company will continue to pay for Life Insurance coverage in the amount of $10,000.00. March 1, 1988 - amend $10,000.00 to read $15,000.00.
13.16	(a) The- Company will provide Sick Pay and Welfare Plans to employees who have accumulated 156 days in their daybank at the end of the previous month. Each month of coverage paid for by the Company will subtract 18 days from the employee's daybank, . and one day will be added to the Employee's Daybank for each day worked.
(b) Employees without the required days in their Daybank at the end of the month will have the option to pay the total premiums on the benefit package for a period of five(5) months, except for life insurance. Life insurance »ay be maintained at the employee'1 s option for a period of up to twelve months.
ARTICLE 14 -• PERMANENT PLANT CLOSURE
14.01	Employees terminated as a result of a permanent planned closure of the plant shall be entitled to a se^aratipn_a^.lowance in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)	To qualify the employee must have 10 years of service and 1750 days worked
(b)	Employees must be actively employed and accumulating seniority, or have been laid off within the 120 day period preceding the dote of notice of closing.
(c)	Qualifying employees shall be paid two days per year of service at their -orr„i_ar straight time rate of pay to a maximum of 40 days.
<d) In order to qualify for the separation allowance, employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
- ii> -
ARTICLE 15 - NOTICE
15.01	Any notice desired to be given to the Company must be given in writing, deposited in the Post Office under registered cover, postage prepaid and addressed:
Fraser Valley Foods
Box 2000, 44440 South Sumas Road
Sardis, B. C. VOX 1Y0
and any notice desired to be given the employees may be given by posting a copy thereof on the Company notice board at the Company's premises at Sardis, B. C., and to the Union at such address as may be indicated by the Union in writing addressed to the Company as herein provided.
ARTICLE. 16	- DURATION OF AGREEMENT
16.01	The Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for a period of twenty-two (22) months from the 1st, day of March. 1987 until the 31st. day of December. 1988 and shall automatically renew itself from year to year unless notice of termination or of amendment is given by either party to the other as hereafter provided.
16.02	If either party desires to terminate this Agreement or amend the provisions of this Agreement, either by additions thereto or deletions therefrom such party shall within the period of 120 days immediately preceding any subsequent anniversary date thereafter, give to the other party notice in writing to commence collective bargaining which shall be carried out in accordance with the Labour Code of British Columbia Act.
If such notice is given, this Agreement shall remain in force during the period of negotiations.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY Fraser Valley Foods
A Division of Jim Pattison Industries Box 2000, 44440 South Sumas Road Sardis, B. C. VOX 1Y0
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION
United Food and Commercial Workers Ltd. International Union, Local 430P Unit B - 5261 Lane Street Burnaby, B. C. V5H 2H4
ssmim	MAGES AM? CLASSIFICATIONS,					
LABOUR RATES:		Mar. V87	Jul;y 1/87	JDqSj j/87	Mar 1/8.8	July 1/88
teavv Start		6.31	6.37	6.43	6.49	6.62
After 60 days		6.38	6.95	7.02	7.09	7.23
After liO.. dpys		11.01	11.12	11.23	11.34	11.57
Cieht Start		6.18	6.24	6.30	6.36	(^4sT)
After 6^t-4pys After^^O''*days		6.67 10.38	6.74 10.48	6.81 10.58	6.88 10.69	7.02 10.90
CLASSIFIED						
Category #1	- Chief Engineer	15.67	15.83	15.99	16.15	16.47
Category #2	- Engineer 3rd.	15.24	15.39	15.54	15.70	16.01
	Class, Tradesman					
Category #3	- Engineer 4th.	14.82	14.97	15.12	15.27	15.58
	Class, Lineman Maintenance					
Category #4	- Retort, Shipper/	13.37	13.50	13.64	13.78	14.06
	Receiver					
Category #5	- Jam Maker	13.15	13.28	13.41	13.54	13.81
	Level #1, Jam Maker Level #2, Juice Maker, New Way					
Category #6	Ceyser, Pakmaster, JLabeller |-p//VW f - Assistant Jam 13.01		13.14	13.27	13.40	13.67
	Maker, Labelling Machine					
Category #7 ■	- Checker, Forklift	12.92	13.05	13.18	13.31	13.58
	Tractor Driver					
Category #8	- General Utility	12.27	12.39	12.51	12.64	12.89
	Maintenance, Shift Freezer Man, Damaged Goods Clerk, Syrup Maker					
Category #9	" Sanitation	11.65	11.77	11.89	12.01	12.25
Category #10 Operator		11.24	11.35	11.46	11.57	11 an
	Tender, First Aid Quality Control					
Category #11	-Stitcher Machine	10.83	10.94	11.05	11.16	11.38
	Box Former, Weigh Scaler, Dock Grader					
Lead Hands to receive 25 cents per hour above their regular rate.