SETT
BERRYl
A division of Jim Pc
SOURCE			
EFF.	(it	05-	
TERM.	&	al.	I.-7
No. OF ^ EMFLOYtMi ^ o& ■			
D!JEMPLOYfs
44440 SOUTH SUMAS ROAD SARDIS, B. C
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL - CIO - CLC Local 430P
UNIT B - 5261 LANE STREET BURNABY, B. C. V5H 2H4
MARCH 1, 1985 - FEBRUARY 28, 1987
V 13 1986	0q3330\
Article	Page
I	Bargaining! Agency , ■.;■■■ —__——	1
II	Definition *___-	■ - "•_____ 2-
III	Management —■ - ■ _________________  2
IV	Union Security	   3
V	Seniority _———-—'	;———-------- 4
VI	Promotions	9
... VII Grievance -Procedure _— ---:-----— 10.
VIII	Safety andfHealth .;.. . ....	___ 14
IX	Vacations '----—■ ■ ■■---------:— 16
X	Wages and Glassifications	-------  18
XL Hours of. ^ork and Pvertime—;—_•	20-
XII Statutory Holidays	24
-XIII General ---------------------------     26
XIV Notice-------------------------------31
XV Duration of Agreement—^------------—	32
Schedule "A”—Wages and Classifications _ 34
THIS AGREEMENT made and concluded at Sardis, B. C., this 9th day of July, A.D. 1985.
BETWEEN:
BERRYLAND FOODS
A Division of Jim Pattison Enterprises Ltd. 44440 South Sumas Road Sardis, B. C.
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL - CIO - CLC Local 430P
Unit B - 5261 Lane Street Burnaby, B.C. V5H 2H4
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE I
BARGAINING AGENCY
The Company hereby recognizes the United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 430P, as the sole collective bargaining agency for all the Company's employees covered by the certification and for all purposes of the Labour Code of British Columbia and agrees, to negotiate with the Union and any Committee thereof in any and all matters with the object of peacefully and amicably settling any differences which may arise.
ARTICLE II DEFINITION
The term "employee" as used for the purposes of this.j4s,refjnent-/)p^vl.svhaI1 include all persons employed by the Company at the Sardis Plant, excepting only the foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, fieldmen, salespersons, office and clerical staff.
ARTICLE III MANAGEMENT
The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to define clearly hours of work, wages and conditions of employment; to provide an amicable method of settling differences or grievances which may from time to time arise; to promote mutual interests of the Company and its employees and to provide for the operation of the Company's plant under methods which will serve the interest of the Company and its employees. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the responsibility of the Company and all of its employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively to maintain and improve the sound and efficient operation of the business.
Subject only to the provisions of this Agreement, the management and operation of the business and the employment, direction, discipline, promotion, transfer, lay-off, and suspension or discharge of employees for just cause and schedules of hours to be worked shall be vested solely in the Management of the Company.
2
on representation from the Grievance Committee.
Section 3.
(a)	Lay-offs and re-employment shall be based on seniority, that is, the last hired shall be the first laid off and the last laid off shall be the first recalled, provided the senior employee is qualified to perform the work available, or can qualify within a reasonable period of time, not exceeding 25 days. The word qualified shall be interpreted to mean,, the ability to perform the job satisfactorily without assistance.
(b)	The Union and the Company agree to make every effort to ensure the employees are. informed of their responsibility to notify the. Company and the Union of the expiration of any leave of absence or sick leave, and any change of address or telephone number.
Section 4.
,(a) In the case of \xnapai7Sj transfer the basis of transfer shall be made by seniority, with the senior qualified employee being asked first and so on down the applicable seniority list, until by this process the temporary vacancy has been filled. Should the vacancy not be filled by this procedure then the basis of transfer shall be the junior qualified employee available in the plant.
(b) Classified employees shall not be required to perform work outside their posted classification when work is required within their classification or as otherwise mutually agreed.
Section 5.
Seniority shall be forfeited under the following circumstances:
(a)	If an employee is discharged for just cause and such discharge is not reversed by the Grievance Procedure.
(b)	If the employee voluntarily resigns.
(c)	After being laid-off by the Company, fails
to report to work when recalled or cannot be located after a reasonable effort on the part of the Company. The method of contact by telephone, followed by a double registered letter to the employee at his last known address shall constitute a reasonable effort on the part of the Company, and if within three (3) working days of ttcsfpt f i'' 'ib, v-V." ho ft oh r,	p Jog «. fails to
report for duty, or advise the Company that he or she will report within five (5) working days, the Company shall be entitled to assume that the said employee left the Company service voluntarily.
Section 6.
(a)	Leave of absence must be given in writing upon being .granted by the Management and the employee shall have it initialled by a designated member of the Supervisory Staff and a designated Union officer in the plant. In no case shalt such leave be for over three months, but it may be extended upon agreement between the parties hereto.
(b)	No more than two employees at one time who are appointed or elected to do business for the Union shall, upon written application,) be granted leave of absence without pay to attend to such' business. Such employees shall continue to accumulate seniority for the period covered by this Agreement, and upon giving the Company one (1) week's notice in writing of their intention to return to work, shall be reinstated in the job held prior to the leave of absence or its equivalent, at the same rate of pay.
6 .
Section 15.
In the event of a lay-off in the operating season, the Company shall give as much notice as is practical to all employees. In the event of a lay-off in the non-operating season, the Company shall give twelve (12) working hours notice or pay in lieu of notice. The operating season shall be defined as when the Company is packing perishable goods.
ARTICLE VI PROMOTIONS
Section 1.
In the bargaining unit, the filling of vacancies shall be based on ability and seniority. Ability being sufficient,, after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. A reasonable trial shall not exceed 25 days. Employees shall receive the applicable job rates provided for in the wage rate schedules for the job or jobs they have been posted or appointed to when they can regularly perform the job without assistance. If it is obvious that a person cannot qualify and is causing serious loss or damage to product or equipment, he or she may be removed, at any time.
Section 2.
All permanent vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be posted on the bulletin board. The vacancy shall be posted for not less than three (3) working days. An employee who is absent due to sickness, accident! vacation or leave of absence when a vacancy is filled shall receive equal consideration, provided the employee makes his or her request within seventy-two (72) hours after his or her return to work.
Section 3.
In addition, seasonal postings will be made once yearly, or as otherwise agreed, where it is expected that a seasonal vacancy will not exceed seven (7) continuous .weeks. Those applying within three (3) working days from the time of posting will receive consideration for such seasonal vacancies on the basis of seniority, provided they possess suitable qualifications for the job and can qualify reasonably quickly. When an employee is assigned to such seasonal vacancy he will receive the applicable rate while performing these seasonal assignments. The Company will provide the Union with a copy of the applications for such advanced postings, and the jobs to be posted will be mutually asrreed upon.
Section 4.
All job pos'tings shall indicate the number of vacancies to be filled .and only these vacancies shall be filled by the initial posting, if subsequent vacancies occur it shall require a new job posting.
Section 5.
The Chief Shop Steward will be notified no later than 5 working days after the expiry date of the jo"	h applicant has been
ARTICLE VII GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE Section 1.
Both the Company and the Union emphasize the desirability of 4 satisfactory grievance procedure which will be to settle as many grievances as possible promptly and on the spot, Lt is agreed that consultation will take place;
chosen
10
quietly, amicably and speedily so that any possible cause of friction may be reduced to a minimum.
Section 2.
A Grievance Committee consisting of not less than three (3) nor more than five (5) employees of the Company shall be elected or appointed by the Union in a manner determined by them and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of that Committee.
Section 3.
Should there, be any dispute arising out of the interpretation of this Agreement or any Clause or Article thereof the matter shall immediately be dealt with as follows:
(a)	Between the aggrieved employee and the Union Steward, and the Foreman or Forelady of the department concerned.
(b)	If the question is not settled under Step (a) above, then between the Union Steward or Stewards (not to exceed two), the aggrieved employee and the Plant Superintendent.
(c)	If the question is not settled under Steps (a) or (b) above, then the Union may present the question in writing to a Committee comprised of three (3) members designated by the Company, three (3) members elected or appointed by the Union and the aggrieved employee. An outside representative of the Union may be called in if so desired.
(d)	If the question is not settled under Steps (a), (b) or (c) above, then the dispute in question shall be referred to an Arbitration Board to consist of one (1) member appointed by the Company and one (1) member appointed
11
Section 6.
All grievances after Step (c) of the Grievance Procedure shall be aresented in writing.. The Company shall then- reply in writing stating reasons.
Section 7.
If an employee is dismissed for any reason whatsoever and feels that he or she nas been unjustly dealt with, he or she shall promptly notify a member of the Grievance Committee who shall within seventy-two (72) hours of receipt of notice of dismissal by the aggrieved employee (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory Holidays) notify the Management that the dismissal in question shall be deemed a grievance. The Dismissal shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the established grievance procedure set out in this Article beginning at Step (c) of the Grievance Procedure.
Section 8.
If it is subsequently decided that the employee wa's tnrfusMry dismissed ihfor she shall be reinstated in his or her former position and shall be compensated for all time lost at his or her regular rates of pay or granted such lesser compensation as seems fair under the circumstances.
Section 9.
Union Stewards, the number to be decided by the Union, shall be elected or appointed by the Union in a manner determined by them and the Company shall be kept informed by the Union of the names of the Union Stewards.
13
Section 10.
If a Steward has to leave his or her job- or department in connection with a grievance he or she shall first secure permission from the foreman or forelady before leaving the job or department. Such permission shall be granted as promptly as possible, but shall in no case exceed one (1) hour.
Section 11.
When the Company deems it necessary to discipline an employee they shall have a Union Steward present.
Section 12.
The Company must give the Local Union notice in writing of the discharge or suspension of any employee on the day such action is taken.
Section 13.
A Union Steward, or in his absence the Chief Steward or President, may discuss with his Foreman direct matters which may affect the welfare of employees under that Foreman’s supervision, even though at the time same may not constitute a grievance. Similar discussions may take place between a Union Officer and the Plant Superintendent or his designated representative.
ARTICLE VIII SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section 1.
The Company shall make reasonable provison for the safety and health of all employees during the hours of their employment.. Protective devices, waterproof clothing and other equip-
14
ment necessary to properly protect employees from injury or ill-health shall be provided by the Company, where necessary and not indiscriminately.
Se&ion 2.
The Company, with the full co-operation of the employees, agrees to keep the plant clean, healthful, sufficiently well-ventilated and lighted at all times, and agrees to pay particular &en-tion to the question of sanitation.
Section 3.
A Safety Committee shall be maintained comprising of three (3) members designated by the Company and three (3) members elected or appointed by the Union. This Committee shall meet regularity at least once a month. Any member of the Committee may call a special meeting when he or she feels a situation exists that endangers the health or safety of employees. All decisions made at the Safety Committee meetings shall be put into effect immediately. A recording secretary who has been mutually agreed to by the members of the Committee shall keep formal minutes of these meetings and issue a copy to all members of the Committee.
Section 4.
To regular employees the Company, upon proof of purchase, shall contribute $25.00 towards the cost of Company-approved Safety Boots or Shoes for on the job usage with a maximum of one pair per 12 month period.
Section 5.
The Company agrees that when a W.C.B. inspector arrives at the Plant for the purposes of an inspection visit or attending to the investigation of an accident a Union safety committee member shall be informed and given the opportunity to meet with the inspector.
15
Section 3.
An itemized computation at in. employee’s pay shall be shown on the employee’s pay slip accompanying it, showing hours worked and rate of pay per hour and all deductions. When pay cheques-are issued they shall be contained within an envelope. An itemized estimate of deductions from vacation pay shall be provided with the vacation pay cheque. The Company agrees to compute the amount of union dues deducted for each employee to December 31st in each year and shall transmit the same to the employee for Income Tax purposes.
Section 4.
Pay cheques shall Jbe_available to employees by 12:00 noon and within four (4) working days of the close of the pay period.
Section S.
All time worked shall be paid for up to the nearest quarter of an hour and accumulated and embodied in the employee’s total hours at the end of each pay period for the purpose of computing the employee’s pay.
Section 6.
If an employee substitutes in any department or on any job during the temporary absence of another employee, he or she shall receive where the job pays less, his or her former rate of pay and where the job pays more, the rate applicable to the temporary job for all hours worked on the temporary job. If the employee spends 50% or more of his or her time on the job, he or she shall	the rate for file full' siiTt.
Section 7.
Employees who lose their seniority for any reason and are rehired or retained in the Com-
19
pany’s employ shall not lose the credit for their days of experience in computing their pay rates and shall not have their pay rates reduced unless a break of one year occurs in their service.
Section 8.
When a regular employee receives a classified rate, he or she shall if permanently transferred to a lower rated job, continue to receive his or her classified rate for all hours worked on the thirty (30) working days following such transfer, after which the lower rate shall be paid. When an employee is transferred to a lower rated job at his or her request., then the lower rate of pay shall apply immediately.
ARTICLE XI
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME Section 1.
(a)	The hours of work shall be eight (8) hours in any one day, forty (40) hours in any one week. Employees shall be paid at a rate equal to time and one-half (lVs) their regular rates of pay for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours and up to and including ten (10) hours in any one day. When an employee works in excess of ten (10) hours in any one day such employee shall be paid at a rate equal to double his or her regular rates of pay.
(b)	For the purpose of calculating if over-
time is payable, the Company shall set out. an Hours of Work Schedule and negotiate with the Union. The Union recognises the needs of the business in negotiating changes in the Hours of Work Schedule. The Schedule of Hours may vary	abyaantsawsi’ to department but Shall
not total more than forty (40) hotlrsr of any
20
Section 2.
The Company agrees to pay double the employee's regular rates of pay for time worked on Sundays, Statutory Holidays and other days declared a holiday by the Government, except to employees whose schedule calls for work on Sunday. The employees normal day off in lieu of Sunday will be paid at the appropriate Sunday overtime rate if worked. The Company further agrees to give as much notice as possible when it is necessary to ask employees to work on these days.
Section 3.
(a)	Every employee shall be entitled to a fifteen (15) minute rest period without deduction of pay at such times as may be designated by the Company, but as close to midway between the time of commencement and the time of completing each half shift as may be practical or possible. The Company agrees to make every effort to monitor and not abuse this section.
(b)	A further rest period of fifteen (15)minutes with pay will be granted by the Company at the completion of the employee's regular shift if such employees are required to work more than one-half (V2) hour or more of overtime and a further rest period after two (2) hours of continuous overtime work.
Section 4.
Any employee who reports for work and who by reason of a breakdown or any other cause for which he or she is not responsible, is dismissed for the day, shall receive at least four (4) hours' pay at his or her regular rate of pay.
Section 5.
Any employee who reports for work and due to a breakdown or shortage of material or other
22
reason he or she is required to put in a period of waiting time, such time will be paid to the employee at his or her regular rates of pay.
Section 6.'
When an employee is especially called back to work in case of an emergency outside his or her normal working hours, he or she shall be through when the emergency is over but shall be paid for four (4) hours at his or her job rate or for the hours- actually worked at overtime pay whichever is the greater. The Union shall be informed of the personnel called in to perform such emergency work.
section 7.
When a scheduled night shift is cancelled, senior employees on that shift shall be called in for the following day shift if there is a day shift scheduled. Night shift employees desiring to work a day shift when their own shift is cancelled shall leave their names with the Company.
Section 8.
A premium of 25 cents per hour shall be paid to all emplo_vees with 100 or more days worked for all hours worked between 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Amend ‘100 days' to read “80 days" effective March 1, 1986. The premium slhall apply during overtime, but shall not be subject to time ana one-half provisions, Shifts starting between 4:30 p.m. and 6:00 p;m. shall be subject to the above provisions.
Section 9.
If employees are required to work overtime in excess of one and one-half (lVz) hours beyond their normal quitting time, the Company will
23
provide a meal or an overtime meal allowance of three dollars and fifty cents ($3.50) and allow thirty (30) minutes at regular rates for such meal period.
ARTICLE XII STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Section 1.
The Company agrees to pay all employees at their regular rates of pay for the normal hours of work as set forth in the Hours of Work Schedule on each of the following public holidays:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day B.C. Day Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day December 24th Christmas Day Boxing Day
whether they work or not. The Company and the Union agree that the employees eligible for these paid Statutory Holidays shall only be those employees who have accumulated eighty (80) days of actual work and have been called to work and worked on one of five (5) working days immediately preceding the holiday or five (5) days immediately following the holiday. Employees must work the day before and the day after the holiday if work is available unless absence has been previously authorized or substantiated because of personal illness.
Employees with 600 or more working days, but who were laid off subsequent to December 15th and called in the following year prior to January 15th, will be eligible for holiday pay for December 24th, Christmas Day, Boxing Day,
24
and New Year’s Day, provided they work up to the last shift prior to the discontinuance of operations for the Christmas season and report for work when recalled when operations resume.
Section 2.
The Company agrees to pay to an employee who would otherwise qualify for Statutory holiday pay under this Article but who is receiving sick pay or Workers' Compensation, the difference between sick pay or Workers' Compensation, as the case may be, and eight hours' pay at his regular rate as long as he continues to receive sick pay or, if on compensation, for such period as the employee would have been entitled to receive sick pay had he been sick.
section 3.
If a paid holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the Company will allow the employee concerned a compensatory day's holiday with ■pay, tmtAiay priu" tu vacation or one day after vacation.
Section 4.
If a paid holiday falls on a day outside an employee's schedule, the -employee shall receive the Friday before or the Monday after the holiday in lieu of the holiday. The provisions of this clause .vaU -aoi apply -to July 1st.
Section 5.
Seasonal employees that have completed five (5) years consecutive service, shall, in their sixth (6th) year__be guaranteed a minimum of two percent 12fo) of their annual earnings in the form of statutory holiday pay.
25
ARTICLE XIII GENERAL
Section L
The Company agrees that the Union shall have the right to use the Company notice boards or to erect bulletin boards of their own (not to exceed three in number), in an appropriate place in the plant to be used for the posting of notices of official Union business.
Section 2.
The Company agrees that employees elected or appointed to attend a convention to carry out Union business (not more than three at any one time), shall be granted leave of absence without pay upon the proper notification, provided this does not seriously disrupt the operation of the business.
Section 3.
All employees covered by this Agreement shall be supplied with aprons and hair nets when necessary. All such aprons and hair nets will be charged to the employee and replaced when damaged or worn out and the original charge shall be refunded when the employee terminates his employment with the Company. In order to have the aprons or hair nets replaced or to collect their refund, employees must turn in their aprons or hair nets. New gloves are to be provided by the Company when worn out Company gloves are turned in. Employees now being supplied with coveralls shall have the cost of cleaning paid by the Company.
Section 4.
The Company to issue locks for existing lockers.
25
replacement tools on a brand name basis where-ever possible. At the end of each calendar year, a tool allowance of $10.00 will be paid for-each month worked during the calendar year to all classified maintenance employees. The Company shall provide tool insurance for the tools belonging to employees who are required to bring tools to work. The insurance shall cover up to $5,000.00 per employee for each loss with a $100.00 deductible for each loss to be borne by the employee. The terms of this insurance shall be governed by the policy of insurance. For other employees label machine operators (3), tech pak & transwrap (2) a tool allowance of $3.00 will be paid for each month worked during the calendar year.
Section 11.
When an employee with seniority attends the funeral of an immediate family member (wife, husband, daughter, son, mother, father, sister and brother) he or she shall receive 24 hours pay at his or her regular rate of pay for the day of the funeral ana two adjacent days, provided payments are made only in respect to absence from work on his or her regular work day. For other relatives (mother-in-law. father-in-law. brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother and grandfather) entitlement shall be for 16 hours pay for the day of the funeral and adjacent day. Employees who are unable to attend the funeral of the deceased relative will receive one day off with 8 hours pay.
Section 12.
Any regular employee of the Company summoned to appear for jury duty, or subpoened by the Court as a witness, shall be paid wages amountingto the difference between the amount
28
paid them for such service and the amount they would have earned, provided that they would have worked if they had not been on such duty.
Section 13.
(a)	The Company will provide the Union with four (4) months' notice of intention to introduce technological change which might result in the displacement or reduction of personnel. Said notice S-hall state the number of employees to be affected. The Company further agrees to meet with the Union within 30 days of such notice to discuss the remification of such change.
(b)	Employees who become redundant due to technological change, shall be eligible for retraining if such training is consistent with the employees capabilities, to equip them for the operation of such new equipment or procedures, or to qualify for new positions. Such retraining will be provided by the Company without loss of pay to the affected employees.
(c)	In cases where the retraining of employees is not practicable, or where other positions with the Company are not available, the employees shall elect for termination of employment, or shall elect to be placed on the recall list. Employees on recall under the provisions of this clause shall report to work within the stipulated period of time as outlined in Article V, Section 7(c) Seniority.
(d)	A specified extension of the recall period, where recall is applied under subsection (c) above may be mutually agreed by the employee, the Company and the Union.
(■e) "Technological Change" means (i) The introduction by hhe Company of a change m his work, undertaking or business, or a change
29
in his equipment or material from the equipment or material previously used by the Company in his work, undertaking or business; or (ii) A change in the manner in which the Company carries on it’s work, aader^ateiaeg, or business related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
Section 14.
It is mutually agreed that no demand shall be made by either party to this Agreement upon the other party, which in any way contravenes laws, orders, or regulations issued by, or under the authority of the Government of Canada, or that of the Province of British Columbia, or such agency as may be assigned by either of such Governments from time to time in regard to wages, bonuses, hours, conditions of labour or other related matters.
Section 15.
The Company shall make available to all Regular employees, as defined in Article V, Section 14, the following sick-pay and welfare plans:
(a) In accordance with the provisions of the Sick Pay Plan, sick pay, on the present 50-50 cost-sharing basis will be paid in the following amounts :
March 1,1985 March 1,1986
Labour and Wage
Category Ten — $190.00 per wk. $210.00 per wk. Wage Categories
Four to Nine — $205.00 per wk. $225.00 per wk.
Wage Categories
One to Three — $220.00 per wk. $240.00 per wk.
30
The service scale for the duration of payment is as follows:
175 days	to	390	days'	seniority	—	4 weeks
391 days	to	1300	days'	seniority	—	16 weeks
1301 days	to	1820	days'	seniority	 26 weeks
1821 days	to	2600	days'	seniority	  34 weeks
2601 days seniority and over----------52 weeks
(b)	The Company will continue to pay the full cost of B.C. Medical to cover all regular employees and their dependents.
(c)	The Company will continue to pay the full cost of Major Medical Expense Benefits as presently covered.
(d)	The Company will continue to pay Vision Care Expense Benefits to a maximum of $40.00 during any two consecutive calendar years as presently covered.
(e)	The Company will continue to pay Dental Benefits as presently covered based on a current fee schedule.
(f)	The Company will continue to pay for Life Insurance coverage in the amount of $10,000.00.
ARTICLE XIV NOTICE
Any notice desired to be given to the Company must be given in writing, deposited in the Post Office under registered cover, postage prepaid and addressed:
BERRYLAND FOODS A Division of Jim Pattison Enterprises Ltd. Box 2000, 44440 South Sumas Road Sardis, B.C. VOX 1Y0
31
and any notice desired to be given the employees may be given by posting a cony thereof' on the Company notice board at the Company's premises at Sardis, B.C., and to the Union at such address as may be indicated by the Union in writing addressed to the Company as herein provided.
ARTICLE XV ■
DURATION OF AGREEMENT Section L
The Agreement shall remain, in full force and ettect tor a period of two .-f21_yfiar‘»--frem==the 1st day of March. 1985 until tfiF 28th day of ^February. 1987 and shall automatically renew Itself from year to year unless notice of termination or of amendment is given by either party to the other as hereafter provided.
Section 2.
If either party desires to terminate this Agreement or amend the provisions of this Agreement, either by additions thereto or deletions therefrom such party shall within the period of 120 days immediately preceding any subsequent anniversary date thereafter, give to the other party notice in writing to commence collective bargaining which shall be carried out in accordance with the Labour Code of British Columbia Act. If such notice is given, this Agreement shall remain in force during the period of negotiations.
32
Signed on behalf of the Company:
BERRYLAND FOODS A Division of Jim Pattisota Enterprises Ltd.
Box 2000
44440 South Sumas Road Sardis, B. C. VOX 1Y0
O. SCHULTZ J. R. HERROD E. H. HUNT
B. BRISCOE S. LUSCOMBE
-Signed on behalf of the Union:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, INTERNATIONAL UNION Local 430P
Unit B - 5261 Lane Street Burnaby, B. C. V5H 2H4
R. BREMNER PHILIP FERGUSON J. E. PIERROT A. A. CRAWSHAW KENDAL R. C. CLARKE
23
SCHEDULE “A” — WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
	1985	1986	1985	1986	1986
Labour Rates:	Mar. 1	Julyl	Dec. 1	Mar. 1	Julyl
Heavy—					
	 _	5.95	6.01	6.07	6.13	6.2S
After 60 days-	6.48	6.54	6.61	6.68	6.81
After 160 days ... . -	10.38	10.48	10.58	10.69	10.90
Light-					
Start .... - _ ... 		5.80	5.86	5.94	6.00	6.12
After 60 days		6.30	6.36	6.42	6.48	6.60
After 150 days	 _	9.78	9.88	9.98	10.08	1028
Classified:					
Category #1	14.73	14.88	15.03	15.21	15.51
Chief Engineer					
Category #2	 		14.28	14.42	14.56	.14.79	15.09
Engineer 3rd Class Tradesman
		1985 Mar 13.90	1985 , 1 14.04	1985 1986 1986 Julyl Dec. 1 Mar. 1 Julyl 14.18 14.38 14.67		
Engineer 4th C la ss Linem an M aintenance		112.59	12.72	12.85	12.98	13.24
Retort Shipper/ Receiver Trans W np 0 p ei a to i Tech Pack		12.38	12.50	12.63	12.76	13.02
Jam Maker Juice Maker New Way Caser Pakmaster Labeller		12.25	12.37	12.50	12.63	12.88
Assistant Jam Maker Labelling Machine Category #7 	-		12.18	12.30	12.42	12.54	12.79
Checker
Forklift
Tractor Driver
ATTEND
YOUR
UNION
MEETINGS
ft
NEW WESTMINSTER B. C