COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
SUN-RYPE PRODUCTS LTD.
AND
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION No. 213
TERM OF AGREEMENT September 1,1999 - August 31,2002
INDEX
SUN-RYPE PRODUCTS LTD
ARTICLE	PAGE NO.
01.00	BARGAINING AGENCY ANEEFINITION 1
02.00	UNION SECURITY..................... 2
03.00	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS ................. 3
04.00	GENERALPROVISIONS ................. 4
05.00	DISCHARGE AND SUSPENSION........... 5
06.00	UNION JURISDICTION................. 6
07.00	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE............... 10
08.00	ARBITRATION....................... 15
09.00	SAFETY AND HEALTH................. 17
10.00	DEFINITION OF EMPLOYEES .......... 19
11.00	SENIORITY......................... 25
12.00	LAY-OFF AND RECALLPROCEDURES ..... 28
13.00	FILLING OF VACANCIES.............. 33
14.00	FILLING OF TEMPORARY VACANCIES... 37
15.00	LEAVE OF ABSENCE.................. 38
16.00	ANNUALVACATI ON................... 39
17.00	GENERAL HOLIDAYS ................. 43
18.00	BEREAVEMENTLEAVE ................. 46
19.00	JURY DUTY......................... 47
20.00	HOURS OF WORK..................... 48
21.00	HEALTH BENEFIT PLAN............... 54
22.00	SICK LEAVE PROVISIONS............. 57
23.00	PENSION PLAN...................... 60
24.00	APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM............ 61
i
25.00	TECHNOLOGICAL AND/OR
ORGANIZATIONAL ■............................ 63
26.00	WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS.....................66
27.00	111 Sill..................................... 75
28.00	DORATI ON OF AGREEMENT........................75
SCHEDULE "A" - Hourly Wage Rates ................. 77
SCHEDULE“B”-Time Periods.......................... 82
SCHEDULE “C” ■ Gain Staring Prograi...............84
letters of Intent and Understanding............... 86
-	Education Fund
-	Foremen & Lead Hands
-	Article 6.03(b) Contracting Out -Article 10.02
-	Article 20.00 Hours of Work ■Technological/OrganizationChangeand
Contracting Out of Work
-	Alternative Shift Schedules
u
THIS AGREEMENT made this day of	, 2000.
BETWEEN: SUN-RYPE PRODUCTS LTD.
Head office, Kelowna,
in the Province of British Columbia
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION No. 213
Vancouver and Kelowna, in the Province of British Columbia
(hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH That in consideration of the Covenants mutually agreed to hereinafter, it is HEREBY AGREED between the Company and the Union as follows:
ARTICLE 1 .00 - BARGAINING AGENCY AND DEFINITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for those employees covered by the certification and working at the classifications listed in Schedule “A”, and for such other employees as may be assigned to new classifications coming under the Union’s jurisdiction.
1.02	The term “employee” as used in this Agreement shall apply to any person performing work in any job which comes within the scope of such Certificate and Schedule “A” of this Agreement.
1.03	Company personnel outside of the bargaining unit shall not perform work in the bargaining unit, except for work as follows:
(a)	Instruction and training of employees
(b)	Performance of experimental and development work
(c)	Emergency conditions which will endanger life, property or the operation where it would cause a shutdown in part or as a whole
(d)	When suitable direct labour is not immediately available.
The terms of this Article will not be used to remove work from the bargaining unit or to reduce the regular or overtime earnings of any employee.
1.04	Whenever the masculine pronoun is used it shall
also mean the feminine pronoun.
ARTICLE 2.00 - UNION SECURITY
2.01	All employees and probationary employees shall be required to join the Union after fifteen (15) days of work within the bargaining unit, and shall remain members of the Union in good standing.
-2-
2.02	The Company shall obtain completed application forms for Union membership from all new employees, and forward same to the Union office. The Union shall provide the Company with the necessary forms.
2.03	All employees referred to above will be required
to sign authorization for checkoff of Union dues and levies, which may be levied by the Union in accordance with its Constitution and/or By-Laws. Such checkoff shall be irrevocable during the term of this Agreement. The Company will deduct Union Dues, initiation fees, and/or assessments from the wages paid to employees.
2.04	The Company agrees that it will, during the term of this Agreement, deduct the Union dues from the employee’s last pay of each calendar month, providing the employee has credit for not less than four (4) full days’ pay, and will transmit the total sum of the amounts so deducted to the Teamsters Local Union No. 213 along with a list of employees from whom deductions are made.
2.05	The Company will provide reasonable time for the Chief Shop Steward or his designate to meet with all new employees during their new employee orientation session.
ARTICLE 3.00 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The management of the Plant and the direction of the working forces, including the right to select, to hire, to suspend, or to discharge for cause, to -3 -
promote, to assign, and to reassign employees to jobs, to transfer employees from department to department, to increase and to decrease the working force, to determine the product to be handled, produced, processed or manufactured, the schedule of production, and the methods, processes, and means of production or handling, are vested exclusively in the Company, subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
3.02	The Company agrees that their function will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 4.00 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
4.01	The Company or the employee agrees not to enter into any agreement or contract, individually, or collectively, which in any way conflicts with the terms and provisions of this Agreement. Any such agreement will be null and void.
4.02	There shall be no strike by the employees, and no
lock-out by the Company, during the term of this Agreement.
4.03	The Company agrees that in the event of a legal
strike among the employees of a concern with which the Company is doing business, it will not require, or in any way force or compel members of the Union to service such a strike-bound firm by crossing any legal picket line(s) established under applicable labour statutes.
-4 -
4.04	Where the Union is aware of any labour dispute which may involve the Company in any way, it shall immediately be referred by the Union representative to the Management of the Company for joint discussion and consideration.
4.05	The Union agrees that in the event the Company becomes involved in a controversy with another Union, the Union will do all in its power to help effect a fair settlement.
4.06	The Employer agrees that there shall be no discrimination against Union members for continued employment, promotion or transfer, or in the hiring of new employees.
ARTICLE 5.00 - DISCHARGE AND SUSPENSION
5.01	No employee shall be disciplined or discharged without just cause.
5.02	If any employee is discharged and the employee believes he was unjustly dealt with, such discharge may initiate a grievance and any such case shall be dealt with starting at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
5.03	The Company shall allow disciplined or discharged employees to consult with a Shop Steward, prior to the recorded discharge or recorded discipline.
5.04	A disciplinary notice in an employee’s file will be disregarded after eighteen (18) months provided the employee does not receive a disciplinary
-5-
notice of the same nature. The Union shall receive a copy of all disciplinary notices.
ARTICLE 6.00 - UNION JURISDICTION
6.01	Shop Stewards
(a)	There shall be a Shop Steward for each shift
and department, consistent with the Employer’s organization of departments and supervisors covered by this Agreement, to see whether the members of the Union and the Company live up to the provisions of this Agreement, and to report any infractions of such provisions and rules to the employee’s immediate supervisors, who shall promptly deal with same. A Shop Steward shall be elected by the Union members in the department concerned, failing which a Shop Steward may be appointed by the Union and shall be an employee in the bargaining unit. There shall be no discrimination against a Shop Steward for Union activities.
(b)	The Shop Steward shall have no authority to alter, amend, violate, or otherwise change any part of this Agreement. The Shop Steward shall report to the Union officers any violation of this Agreement.
(c)	The Union Negotiation Committee shall consist of three Sun-Rype Shop Stewards and the Chief Shop Steward. The Union Negotiation Committee shall accompany
-6-
Union officials on all negotiations between the Company and the Union. The Company shall reimburse the members of the Union Negotiation Committee for all wages lost during negotiations and the Company shall recover such cost from the Union at the completion of negotiations.
(d)	The Chief Steward shall for the purpose of layoff only, have super seniority for the term of his elected position. In order to maintain sound labour relations the Company will assign the Chief Steward to a day shift position if requested by the Union, if a suitable day shift position for which the Chief Steward is qualified and able is available. This assignment could change the work assignments of other employees from that to which they would otherwise be entitled. The Chief Steward will receive his regular hourly rate, including premiums, or the rate for the day shift position, whichever is greater.
(e)	The Chief Shop Steward and Shop Stewards will be provided reasonable time to conduct the business of the Union relating to the bargaining unit employees provided that the continuous operations of the Plant are not disrupted. While conducting this business these Stewards will be paid the rate they would receive while working that day.
- 7 -
(f)	At the request of the Union, time off without pay will be provided for Shop Stewards to attend meetings, subject to the operational and scheduling requirements of the Company.
6.02	Bargaining Unit Work
If a Supervisor or Company personnel outside the bargaining unit performs work of the bargaining unit except as provided in Article 1.03, the Company agrees to pay eight (8) hours pay to the senior employee on lay-off at such employee’s applicable rate of pay for each day in which such work is performed.
6.03	Work on a Contract Basis
(a)	The Company agrees that cartage work presently performed by members of the bargaining unit, with the exception of the hauling of garbage and refuse, will not be let out to contract or carried out by hired equipment, if appropriate Company equipment is available for this work, and members of the bargaining unit normally performing this work would be laid off as a result.
Should it become impossible for the Company to hire outside equipment locally from:
(i)	Companies or owner-operators with employees under agreement to Teamsters Local Union No. 213; or
(ii)	Members of Teamsters Local Union No. 213,
then the Company shall be free to use outside equipment from
-	Companies or owner-operators with
employees under agreement to another Teamsters’ Local or;
-	Members of another Teamsters’ Local.
(b)	The contracting out of work, other than cartage, shall require the consent of the Union. When the contracting out of work does not affect either the number of Union members on the active payroll, or the return to the active payroll of members on lay-off then consent to contract out shall not be withheld, providing the work is being done by Union personnel wherever possible. Wherever possible, such contract work shall be carried out by members of a Union affiliated to the B.C. and Yukon Building Trades Council.
(c)	Trucking Operations
With the exception of the transporting of raw fruit from the B.C. Fruit Packers Cooperative (Kelowna location) to the Kelowna -9-
Plant, the Company agrees that no other hauling of raw fruit or juice to the Plant shall be undertaken by non-members of the Union. The delivery of grower-owned fruit to the Plant by the grower of such fruit shall continue as at present. It is understood and agreed that raw fruit or juice referred to under this Article does not include imported raw fruit or juice.
6.04	Inspection Privileges
The authorized Business Agent of the Union shall be permitted reasonable time to visit members regarding Union business during working hours, after notifying Management. The Business Agent will cooperate to ensure that Plant operations are not disrupted.
6.05	Union Bulletins
The Company agrees that the Union shall have the right to use a secured bulletin board in the main plant and the warehouse for posting notices of official Union business. Such notices shall only be posted by authorized representatives of the Union.
ARTICLE 7.00 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01 Whenever any dispute arises between the Company and the Union or between the Company and one or more employee, the employee(s) shall continue to work while the grievance is being
-10-
processed in accordance with the grievance procedures.
7.02	There shall be a Grievance Committee comprised of Shop Stewards only. The Chairman of this Committee shall be the Chief Shop Steward who will be elected at large. The grievor shall be part of the Grievance Committee in Step 3.
7.03	Disputes or differences concerning the interpretation, application, operation, or alleged violation of the Agreement shall be resolved according to the following procedure:
Step 1 The employee and his immediate supervisor, with or without a Shop Steward, shall discuss the employee’s grievance within eight (8) of the employee’s working days of the event giving rise to the grievance. If the supervisor and employee agree upon a course of action to correct the problem, they may proceed to take the necessary actions and no grievance form need be filed.
Step 2 If the supervisor and employee are unable to agree on a course of action to resolve the employee’s grievance, a grievance form should be completed and filed with the supervisor within five (5) working days of the failure to resolve the grievance at Step 1. It shall be the joint responsibility of the supervisor and the Shop Steward signing the grievance form to fully investigate the circumstances of the grievance,
-11 •
consulting with the Chief Shop Steward, the Manager, Employee Relations, the Operating Manager, and any other employees as required. The supervisor will then accept or reject the grievance based upon the results of the investigation. The Company must respond to the grievance within five (5) working days of its date of filing, or such longer time as the Parties may mutually agree. Both Parties must make every effort to expedite the settling of grievances.
Step 3 If a settlement has not been reached under Step 2, the Union, if it wishes to continue the grievance must request a Step 3 meeting in writing using the grievance form. The meeting must be held within ten (10) working days of the request or such longer time as the Parties may mutually agree. The meeting should be attended by the Manager, Employee Relations, the Business Agent, the Chief Shop Steward, the Operating Manager, the Supervisor and Shop Steward involved in the grievance, and the grievor. Any attendee may designate an alternate to attend in his place. If no solution is reached at Step 3 within ten (10) days, or such longer time as the Parties may mutually agree, the question shall be resolved in accordance with Article 7.06 or Article 8.00 of this Collective Agreement.
7.04	If an employee is suspended or discharged and through the grievance procedure it is subsequently decided that the employee was
- 12-
unjustly suspended or discharged, the employee shall be reinstated in the former position and shall be compensated for work time lost at the applicable rate of pay.
7.05	When a grievance which affects the rate or pay or classification of an employee is not settled under the first step but is, in subsequent grievance procedure, settled with a resultant increase in wages to the grievor, such increase shall be paid retroactively to the date on which the grievance was first submitted or the new classification was established.
7.06	Grievance Panel
(a)	If no decision can be made at Step 3 of the
grievance procedure, either Party may choose to implement the Grievance Panel procedure.
(b)	The Party wishing to use the investigation procedure shall notify the other Party of its decision within five (5) working days of the third stage grievance meeting.
(c)	The Party receiving notification, may refuse to use the Grievance Panel procedure, in which case, the arbitration provisions of Article 8.00 are available.
(d)	The Panel shall consist of two members, one
appointed by the Company and one appointed by the Union. The selection of
-13 -
Panel members by the Company and Union must be made to enhance the effectiveness of the Grievance Panel process.
(e)	Each Party shall be responsible for the cost
of its representative.
(f)	The grievance going to the Grievance Panel
shall be dealt with by a written list of both Company and Union representatives. Both Parties will have the opportunity to state their position to the Panel along with examination and cross examination of all witnesses.
(g)	All representatives and witnesses for the Union will be paid by the Union.
(h)	While the Grievance Panel is intended to provide only non-binding recommendations, the Parties may agree that the recommendations will be a binding award. Such agreement must be made in advance of the Grievance going to the Panel.
(i)	The Panel shall meet to consider grievances at the request of the Parties within thirty (30) days of such request.
(j)	The Panel will consider only those
grievances which involve matters other than discharge.
14
(k)	The Grievance Panel will:
■ Reach a solution with the agreement of the Parties;
• Find in favour of the Company; or . Find in favour of the Union.
(l)	The decision of the Panel will be conveyed to the Company and the Union in a brief written statement. The decision of the Panel cannot be used as a precedent in arbitration.
(m)	Panel decisions shall be made within two (2) weeks of the date of its hearing of the grievance.
ARTICLE 8.00 - ARBITRATION
8.01	The Party desiring arbitration shall appoint a member to the Board and shall notify the other Party, in writing, of its appointee and the questions to be arbitrated.
8.02	The Party receiving the notices shall within five (5) days thereafter appoint a member to the Board and notify the other Party of its appointee.
8.03	The two arbitrators so appointed shall confer to select a third person to be Chairman, and failing for three (3) days from the appointment of the second of them to agree upon a person willing to act, either of the arbitrators may apply to the Honourable Minister of Labour to appoint such a third member as Chairman.
-15 -
8.04	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Parties may mutually agree to the use of a single arbitrator, who will be governed by the provisions of this Article. If the Parties fail to agree on a specific arbitrator, either Party shall apply to the Labour Relations Board to appoint a single arbitrator.
8.05	The Arbitration Board shall sit, hear the Parties, and make its award as soon as it is reasonably practicable.
8.06	The Board shall deliver its award in writing to each of the Parties and the award of the majority of the Board shall be the award of the Board and they shall carry it out forthwith.
8.07	Each Party shall pay its own costs and expenses
of arbitration and the remuneration and disbursements of its appointee to the Board and one-half the compensation of the Chairman, and of the stenographic and other expenses of the Arbitration Board.
8.08	If an employee is suspended or discharged and it
is the decision of the Arbitration Board that the employee was suspended or discharged for other than proper cause, such employee shall be reinstated in employment and shall be compensated for the wages the employee has lost at the applicable rate of pay, or such lesser sum as in the opinion of the majority of the Arbitration Board is fair and reasonable.
- 16-
ARTICLE 9.00 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
9.01	The Company agrees to keep the plant healthful,
heated, sufficiently ventilated and in well-lighted condition at all times, Particular attention is to be paid to the question of sanitation. Where the present existing conditions are not satisfactory, the matter will be referred to the Chief Shop Steward. Employees will make every effort to cooperate with the Company in the matter of cleanliness, sanitation, health and safety.
9.02	The Company shall establish and continue to have a Safety Committee of which Management personnel shall not outnumber Union members. This Committee shall meet on a monthly basis and operate as required by the Workers’ Compensation Board regulations. There shall be at least one (1) Union Steward on the Committee.
9.03	The Company maintains the right to designate a
qualified employee to act as a First Aid Attendant on each shift. An employee designated as the First Aid Attendant on a shift shall receive the applicable First Aid Attendant’s premium shown in Schedule “A” of this Agreement for the duration of the shift. Decisions on the competence of employees holding First Aid Certificates to be designated the First Aid Attendant of shift will be made in consultation with First Aid Attendants working through the Safety Committee and WCB. To facilitate first aid services to employees, the janitor positions on
17
afternoon and graveyard shifts will be filled by the designated First Aid Attendant for the shift. Any First Aid Attendant designated as such for part of a shift will receive the premium for the whole shift.
9.04	To ensure the safety of employees working in isolation on the afternoon and/or graveyard shifts, appropriate arrangements for contact and communication with such employees, sufficient to meet or exceed WCB requirements, will be established and followed where required.
9.05	No employee shall be disciplined or discharged for refusal to work on a job or in any workplace or to operate any equipment which is unsafe where it would be contrary to applicable Federal, Provincial and Municipal Legislation or Regulations. Where, in such circumstances, the employee does not work, he shall not suffer a loss of pay.
9.06	The Workers’ Compensation Board imposes a legal obligation on all workers to protect the health and safety of themselves and other workers. It is acknowledged that a statutory responsibility for worker health and safety rests with the Company. Both employees and the Company have a shared responsibility for safety in the workplace. All employees will be made aware of the Company’s safety rules and procedures and will be required to follow such safety rules and procedures for the work they are assigned.
- 18 -
9.07	A drug and alcohol free workplace is in the best
interest of the employees and the Company. Accordingly, an Alcohol and Drug Policy and Program will be implemented for Sun-Rype’s operations.
9.08	The Company and the Union recognize the right of employees to work in an environment free from harassment on the grounds listed in the Human Rights Act. The Company, through its Policy on Dignity in the Workplace, will take all necessary steps to remedy the effects of harassment in the workplace. The purpose of the Policy is to ensure that all employees are treated and treat each other with dignity and respect.
ARTICLE 10.00 - DEFINITION OF EMPLOYEES
10.01	(a)The employee groups listed in this Article be:
(i)	Designated Essential employees.
(ii)	Regular employees.
(iii)	Probationary employees.
(iv)	Students.
(b)	All employees be listed on a single seniority
list.
(c)	Employees formerly known as “Auxiliaries” will be considered regular employees, and they be designated as “Plant Labour” on the seniority list.
19
(d)	Plant Labour appear as job title in a new Group 1 in Schedule “A”.
10,02	Probationary Employees
(a)	New employees shall be considered to be probationary employees until they have completed forty-five (45) working shifts or, if they are hired directly into a classified position, until they have completed the training/probation period specified for their position in Schedule “B”, if this period exceeds forty-five (45) working shifts. During the probationary period, they will be entitled to probationary seniority. Upon successful completion of the probationary period, their date of plant seniority shall be from the date of hire. When two (2) or more employees commence employment on the same day their seniority will be established by lottery, as agreed between the Parties at the new employee orientation session, regardless of which shift the employees work.
(b)	The Company shall maintain a list of probationary employees. Names of newly hired employees will be placed on this list after their first shift of work. They will be offered work opportunities based on the order of their start date, excluding Article
12.07	of this Collective Agreement and subject to their availability. The Union shall
-20 -
be notified in writing of the name and start date of new employees.
(c)	It is understood that a probationary employee may be discharged for reasons less serious than might justify the discharge of an employee who has acquired plant seniority. If a probationary employee is to be discharged, the employee and Shop Steward will be advised by the Company of the reasons.
10.03	Essential Position Designation
(a)	A list of Essential Positions will be established for the position classifications in Schedule “A” and number of positions within that classification that are Essential to protect the Company investment in employees’ training, experience and skills from Department and Plant lay-off subject to Article 10.04(b).
(b)	The Company may increase or decrease the designation of Essential Positions. Every effort will be made to reach mutual agreement. If agreement cannot be reached, then the Company may proceed and the matter will be submitted to Arbitration.
(c)	It is agreed that the Essential Position designation will be maintained while an incumbent is in the position with guarantees as specified in Article 10.04(a)(i) and (ii) of
-21 -
this Agreement. Once the designated Essential Position becomes vacant, then its designation may be changed in accordance with Article 10.03(b) of this Agreement.
10.04Designated Essential Position Employment
Benefits
(a)	It is agreed that employees assigned to designated Essential Positions will be entitled to the following special benefits:
(i)	Guaranteed twelve (12) months work per year. During any period that work is not available in the employee’s position classification, the employee will perform work at any job that he is reasonably competent to perform. If the employee is not willing to perform such work or be trained for such work, the employee may be laid off if mutually agreed and the Company need not guarantee twelve (12) months work.
(ii)	Shall retain their regular hourly rate of pay whenever assigned to work for which a lower rate of pay is applicable, except if the employee posts down to another classification as per Articles 13.00 and 14.00, or is laid off as per Article 10.04(b).
(b)	If the operations of the Company cease due to circumstances beyond the control of the
-22 -
Company, then essential employees may be laid off without the guarantees provided in Article 10.04(a)(i) and (ii) until such time as the Company is able to resume operations.
10.05 Students and Plant Labour Employees
(a)	Students may be hired and recalled to perform available work only after the seniority list has been exhausted. When hiring Students, preference will be given to relatives of employees of Sun-Rype.
(b)	A Student is a person who is or intends to enroll in an educational institution on a fulltime basis within one calendar year from the time of employment.
(c)	A Student who does not enroll or attend an
educational institution prior to the completion of their first year of employment will be terminated from employment with Sun-Rype. Proof of enrolment on a full-time basis in an educational institution must be shown to the Manager, Employee Relations and Development.
(d)	Students will receive ten percent (10%) of their base rate in lieu of vacation and General Holidays.
(e)	Plant Labour employees who have worked a
total of 1040 hours or more in the previous calendar year shall participate in the
-23 -
following components of the Health Benefit Plan, which are described more fully in Article 21.00:
(i)	group life insurance;
(ii)	accidental death and dismemberment insurance;
(iii)	the extended health care plan;
(iv)	the dental plan;
(v)	effective September 1, 2000 nonoccupational weekly indemnity coverage; and
(vi)	effective September 1, 2001 - long term disability benefits.
(f)	Plant Labour employees who have worked
sixty-two (62) shifts will be reimbursed for their B.C. Medical Services Plan premiums paid for every month in which they work ten (10) or more shifts, starting the month following the month in which they attain the sixty-two (62) shifts.
(g)	Plant Labour employees are not entitled to sick leave benefits and do not participate in the Pension Plan. Students are not entitled to sick leave benefits and do not participate in the Company Health Benefit Plan or Pension Plan.
24
(h)	Plant Labour employees will be registered in
the applicable components of the Health Benefit Plan from the first day of the month following the month in which they qualify by having worked 1040 hours or more during the calendar year. In accordance with Article 10.05 (e) above, this qualifies them for coverage for the balance of the qualifying calendar year and the following calendar year.
(i)	Plant Labour employees must re-qualify
each year to be entitled to receive benefits in the following year. Plant Labour employees may bank up to 100 hours over the 1040 qualifying hours toward eligibility in the next year in accordance with the provisions of Articles 2 1.07 and 2 1.08.
(j)	Students will not be used to increase
manning in production between the periods of September 30th and May 1st except in cases of unusual and unforeseen work load which is of short term duration and does not constitute continuing production activity.
ARTICLE 11 ,00 - SENIORITY
11.01	Seniority shall be based on date of hire with the Company.
11.02	Seniority shall prevail on a Company-wide basis, except as specified in Article 12.01 and 12.02 of this Agreement. The Company shall prepare a
-25 -
Seniority List of all employees, to be posted in a convenient place on the first day of April and the first day of October of each year, showing the date started and the classification of each employee covered by this Agreement.
11.03	An employee shall lose seniority and cease to be an employee if he:
(a)	Voluntarily quits the Company, or;
(b)	Is discharged and the discharge is not reversed through grievance procedure, or;
(c)	After a long-term lay-off, fails to report for work within seven (7) working days after being notified by the Company by registered mail to the last address recorded with the Company following the lay-off, or;
(d)	After short-term lay-off fails to return to work within twenty-four (24) hours of the time to report without receiving a leave of absence or giving a satisfactory explanation for not working, or;
(e)	Is absent without leave, except where the ability to notify the Company is beyond the control of the employee, or;
(f)	Is absent due to lay-off for more than eighteen (18) calendar months, or;
26
(g)	Fails to return to work upon the termination of an authorized Leave of Absence or a vacation, except where such failure is beyond the control of the employee.
11.04	When an employee within the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement takes a position within the Company which is beyond the sphere of the bargaining unit, the employee may retain seniority for a maximum of ninety (90) working shifts. At the end of this period of ninety (90) working shifts, the employee must exercise seniority rights by returning to the bargaining unit, or relinquish all such seniority rights. Should the employee exercise his seniority rights to return to the bargaining unit, he must remain in the bargaining unit for a minimum of one hundred and eighty (180) calendar days before he may take a position within the Company which is beyond the sphere of the bargaining unit.
11.05	If an employee is absent from work for a continuous twelve (12) month period he shall be moved to an inactive seniority list. Should the employee return to work at some future time, he shall be returned to the regular seniority list. The employee will retain his posting, and will return to the same spot previously held on the regular seniority list.
27
ARTICLE 12.00 - LAY-OFF AND RECALL PROCEDURES
12.01	When the Company requires to lay-off employees, a general lay-off notice shall be posted by the employee’s sign-in sheet before the end of the employee’s shift. A short-term lay-off is a lay-off of five (5) working days or less and a long-term lay-off is a lay-off which exceeds five (5) working days.
12.02	(a) When the Company has decided that
circumstances require a reduction in the work force, the employees will be laid off on a plant wide seniority basis, except where employees with specific qualifications are required or an employee holds a Designated Essential position.
(b)	For the purpose of lay-off procedures, employees with the least plant seniority shall be laid off first, providing that the remaining employees are able to perform the work available or can learn to do the available work in a short period of time. If an employee cannot learn to do the work available in a short period of time, he shall be laid off and the most senior laid off employee recalled. For purposes of this Article, the Parties agree that only jobs below Group Five can be learned in a short period of time.
12.03	During a work week, when employees are
-28-
displaced from the jobs they were performing and/or shifts they were working on, the following guidelines shall apply:
(a)	When an employee is working within his
classification:
(i)	He shall have the right to positions in the same classification provided he displaces the most junior employee in the classification working on the shift.
(ii)	If the employee wishes to change shifts in order to remain in his classification, he may exercise his seniority but he must displace the most junior employee on the other shift in his classification.
(iii)	If the employee wishes to leave his classification in order to stay on the same shift, he may exercise his seniority but he must displace the junior employee working on the shift that he is qualified and able to do the work of.
(iv)	Displaced employees shall return to their permanently classified job when a vacancy occurs in their classification.
(b)	When an employee is not working in his
classification:
(i) He shall have the right to displace the junior employee working on the shift, providing he is qualified and able. The -29 -
junior employee displaced shall then have the right to displace the most junior employee working in the plant, provided he is qualified and able to do the work
(c)	Employees shall have the option to choose voluntary lay-off when such a course of action is mutually agreed.
12.04There shall be no bumping of any employees from the job they are performing or their classification into other positions or classifications other than provided in Article
12.03	above.
12.05	(a) Where the Company requires employees to
be laid-off due to a sudden unforeseen breakdown of equipment, these employees may be laid-off for that day on a department basis and the employees so affected shall be paid for the balance of their regular scheduled eight (8) hour shift. The Company will make every effort to notify employees scheduled for the following shift to not report for work.
(b)	Where a lay-off results from a lack of work due to unforeseen circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the above lay-off considerations will maintain, except the payment of wages will follow the guidelines set out in Article 20.07.
12.06	When recalling employees to work after lay-off,
30
they shall be recalled in order of seniority to the job available, provided they are qualified and able to do the work. In order to expedite the above, the Company and the Union will develop a roster. Employees will notify, in writing, supported by medical evidence, the jobs they are unable to perform. These employees can withdraw such notice in writing, again supported by medical evidence, and this notice will be effective after two weeks of notification to the Company.
12.07	(a) When recalling employees to work, they will be notified as follows:
(i)	Twenty-four (24) hours notice has been given that work is available on the night shift or graveyard shift. Fifteen hours notice has been given that work is available on the day shift. Employees shall be contacted between 1:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. the day before the available shift.
(ii)	If no message can be given or contact with the employee between the specified times in (i) above, the next available employee shall be recalled and the loss of work shall not be subject of a grievance or penalty.
(iii)	After attempts by the Company on two (2) days to contact an employee, it becomes the employee’s responsibility to
-31 -
contact the Company as to the availability of work.
(b)	The above Article 12.07 (a) (i) shall not apply where an employee fails to report for his regular scheduled shift or leaves without prior notice during his shift. The Company will not be required to give notice to a laid off employee who is recalled and replaces an absentee as per Article 12.03. The employee who reports due to absenteeism must fill the position available.
(c)	When an employee is recalled to work to fill in for absenteeism at the start of a shift, the employee shall be required to report to work within one (1) hour of notification and shall be paid from the start of the scheduled shift. An employee who has been notified and fails to report within that one (1) hour period, shall be paid for time worked.
(d)	If the Company changes the employee’s start time to an earlier shift schedule, the employee will finish at the schedule’s finish time without loss of wages.
12.08	Where a new or junior employee has worked prior to a senior employee who has not signed the roster as per Article 12.06, and is able to perform the available work, the senior employee shall be compensated for all the hours he lost at the employee’s applicable rate of pay.
-32 -
ARTICLE 13.00 - FILLING OF VACANCIES
13 .0 1 Vacancies/New Positions
(a)	Vacancies and new positions will be filled from within the bargaining unit. When such a vacancy occurs, a job posting describing the position will be placed on the main plant and the warehouse bulletin boards, within ten (10) working days of the vacancy occurring. If for some reason a vacancy is not to be filled, the Union will be advised in writing within ten (10) working days.
(b)	Vacancies shall be filled on the basis of seniority, provided the employee can qualify with full consideration to the operations and is able to perform the work. Where and when necessary, an employee shall be given training for the job as per Article 13.03 (a), (b) and (c).
13.02	Job Posting Procedure
(a) In the event of a vacancy or a new position being created, the Company will prepare a job posting and display it on the main plant and the warehouse bulletin boards for a period of ten (10) working days. The job posting may, with the consent of the Union, be displayed for a period of five (5) working days where circumstances warrant the quick filling of the vacancy.
-33 -
(b)	The job posting will describe the principal duties and responsibilities of the vacant position and will specify the job grouping, the current wage rate and, any other pertinent details relating to the position and the closing date for applications. Job postings will be prepared utilizing the current job requirements in the plant. The Company will notify the Union in advance of any future changes or additions to job requirements, as well as giving consideration to Union suggestions regarding these requirements. Employees are responsible for ensuring that their applications reach the Personnel Office on or before the closing date.
(c)	Where an employee is unaware of a posted job vacancy due to an absence from the plant as a result of vacation, lay-off, illness or injury not exceeding forty-five (45) calendar days, he will have three (3) working days after his return to file an application, even if the posting has closed and a selection has been made. Should the returning employee then be selected over another employee previously selected, the previously selected employee shall return to his former job.
(d)	The Company will give consideration to employees who request in writing, that they wish to transfer into an unclassified position. Employees transferring into such a position
34
will continue to be eligible to apply for any job vacancies in accordance with the job posting procedure.
(e)	Any vacancies not filled under this Article may be filled by hiring a new employee.
(f)	The Company shall post on the bulletin boards the name of the successful applicant and the position for which he has been selected within three (3) working days of his selection.
13.03	General
(a)	The successful applicant and/or new employee assigned to a position vacancy in accordance with Article 13.01 and 13.02 will be provided with a training period in which to learn the requirements of the new position.
(b)	The training period will also be considered a probation period, during which the employee may be returned to his former position for unsatisfactory progress.
(c)	In addition to the training/probation period, there are two (2) other periods of time that apply to an employee in a new position:
(i)	Decision period - the time, measured in working shifts, during which the employee has the opportunity to decide whether he likes the new position and wishes to remain in it, or that he wants to -35 -
return to his previous position. During this period, the employee may bid on other posted positions.
(ii)	Exclusion period - the time, measured in calendar days, following the completion of the training/probation period during which the employee is ineligible to bid on other positions. The purpose of the exclusion period is to protect the Company’s investment in training for more complex jobs that require relatively extensive training periods.
(d)	Specific training/probation, decision and exclusion periods have been defined for each job classification and, in some cases, for individual jobs. These are outlined in Schedule “B” of this Agreement.
(e)	The decision period and the training/probation period both commence on the employee’s first day in the new job. The exclusion period begins at the end of the training/probation period.
(f)	When the training/probation period exceeds
the decision period, the employee will be ineligible to bid on other positions from the completion of the decision period through the balance of the training/probation period and the exclusion period. The only exception to this is employees who do not
-36 -
hold DE positions who wish to bid on posted DE positions. In such cases, they will be eligible to bid for DE positions at any time.
(g)	All employees affected by the return of an employee to a previously held position are to return to their former positions.
(h)	An employee can hold only one (1) position
classification, excluding temporary postings.
ARTICLE 14.00 - FILLING OF TEMPORARY VACANCIES
14.01	The Company shall maintain a Temporary Job Book. This Job Book will operate on a calendar year basis, except for the Laboratory Technician position, which shall be held by the successful applicant until he gives it up. Closing date for reapplying for any job or jobs is April 15th of each year.
14.02	A temporary vacancy in the Light Truck Operator position, Truck Driver position, Fork Lift Mechanic position, Laboratory Technician position, and Receiving Clerk position, shall be filled from the Temporary Job Book. These temporary positions shall be filled on the basis of seniority, provided the employee is qualified and able to perform the work available.
14.03	When a temporary job is completed, the employee will revert to his former job, and all other employees affected will return to their former jobs.
-37 -
14.04	The Company shall post on the bulletin board the name of the successful applicant who shall fill the temporary vacancy in that position for the full calendar year within ten (10) days of his selection. Employees shall only be entitled to hold one temporary vacancy for that period.
ARTICLE 15,00 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
15.01	(a) The Company will grant Leaves of Absence, in writing without pay for the following reasons:
(i)	Verified illness.
(ii)	Maternity or parental leave.
(iii)	Union business. An employee shall be granted a Leave of Absence for Union business, but such leave shall not be more than seven (7) working days during the months of July, August, September, and October. In addition, the Company will grant a Leave of Absence for Union business to not more than one employee in any year, and such leave shall not exceed five (5) years. If it is desired to extend the Leave of Absence beyond five (5) years a written application will be made to the Company to request a further year’s extension. Such employee shall continue to accumulate seniority during the absence.
-38 -
(b)	The Company may grant Leave of Absence in writing in any other case, for good and proper reason.
(c)	Every employee who applies for a Leave of
Absence in writing shall have the Leave submitted to the Company seven (7) days in advance for any Leave. The Company will notify the applicant in writing within two (2) working days after the request for a Leave of Absence whether the Leave will be granted or not.
(d)	Employees on Leave of Absence will accumulate seniority.
ARTICLE 16.00 - ANNUAL VACATION
16.01	Each employee who has completed one (1) year’s continuous service in the employ of the Company and has worked a minimum of eleven hundred (1,100) hours for the Company, during the preceding twelve (12) months, shall be entitled to two (2) consecutive weeks (80 hours) with pay equal to two (2) weeks (80 hours) straight time pay at the employee’s regular rate or four percent (4%) of annual gross earnings, whichever is the greater.
16.02	Each employee who has completed three (3) years continuous service and has worked a minimum of eleven hundred (1 ,100) hours for the Company during the preceding year, shall be entitled to a total of three (3) weeks (120 hours) vacation with
-39 -
pay equal to three (3) full weeks (120 hours) straight time pay at the employee’s regular rate or six percent (6%) of annual gross earnings, whichever is the greater.
16.03	Each employee who has completed nine (9) years of continuous service and has worked a minimum of eleven hundred (1,100) hours for the Company during the preceding year, shall be entitled to a total of four (4) weeks (160 hours) vacation with pay equal to four (4) full weeks (160 hours) straight time pay at the employee’s regular rate or eight percent (8%) of annual gross earnings, whichever is the greater.
16.04	Each employee who has completed fourteen (14) years of continuous service and has worked a minimum of eleven hundred (1,100) hours for the Company during the preceding year, shall be entitled to a total of five (5) weeks (200 hours) vacation with pay equal to five (5) full weeks (200 hours) straight time pay at the employee’s regular rate or ten percent (10%) of annual gross earnings, whichever is the greater.
16.05	Each employee who has completed twenty (20) years continuous service and has worked a minimum of eleven hundred (1,100) hours for the Company during the preceding year, shall be entitled to a total of six (6) weeks (240 hours) vacation with pay equal to six (6) full weeks (240 hours) straight time pay at the employee’s regular rate or twelve percent (12%) of annual gross
-40 -
earnings, whichever is the greater.
16.06	(a) (i) Pay for annual vacation for employees shall be made by separate cheque one (1) day prior to the employee’s last scheduled day of work before commencement of the annual vacation. Provided, however, that the employee has submitted to his supervisor a written request five (5) working shifts in advance of his vacation. Vacation pay for these employees shall be paid in amounts appropriate to the length of the annual vacation to be taken at the time, provided the vacation is in blocks of working weeks.
(ii) Employees qualified in (i) above who are off work for more than two (2) consecutive weeks because of sickness, injury or lay-off may, upon request to the Manager Employee Relations, receive vacation pay in lieu of time off.
(b)	Employees shall be entitled to take their vacation in one continuous period.
(c)	Should the Company request employees who are on vacation to return to work during their vacation period, the Company shall pay such employees wages equivalent to those paid for working on General Holidays.
41
(d)	The Company shall post a Vacation Calendar for the benefit of the employees.
(e)	Employees within their respective departments shall choose their time-off for their annual vacations by seniority. However, where the continued operation of a department is to be affected, then the employees shall choose their vacations by mutual consent between the Company and the employee.
16.07	(a) For the purpose of qualifying for the eleven
hundred (1,100) hours worked in a year, General Holiday pay, annual vacation and authorized sick leave, weekly indemnity, and W.C.B. up to a maximum of three (3) months will be considered as time worked.
(b) Employees who have not qualified for the eleven hundred (1,100) hours shall receive the percentage of their total earnings for their anniversary year. Such percentages to be described in Articles 16.01, 16.02, 16.03, 16.04, and 16.05.
16.08	(a) Prior to April 1st of each year, employees, in
order of seniority, may indicate their desired vacation blocks. During the period of initial sign-up (i.e. prior to April 1st), a vacation block of less than five (5) days will only be considered in situations where General Holidays or other scheduled time off permit
-42 -
an employee to fill out a full week using less than five (5) vacation days. Whenever possible, the Company will confirm those requested vacation blocks on or before April 15th.
-	After April 15th, or earlier if all
employees in the department have received confirmation of their vacation blocks of five (5) days or more, employees, in order of seniority, may indicate their desired blocks of less than five (5) days. Whenever possible, vacation blocks of less than five (5) days requested on or before May 1st will be confirmed by May 8th.
-	After May 1st, or earlier if the first two (2) steps of the sign-up process have been completed, all vacation requests will be on a first-come, first served basis.
(b) Once an employee’s vacation date has been established the Company agrees that it will not change this notice date without giving the employee at least one (1) month’s notice of such change, except by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE 17.00 - GENERAL HOLIDAYS
17.01	(a) Every non-probationary employee covered by this Agreement who has been employed by the Company for thirty (30) calendar days, and has worked seven (7) days within -43 -
the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the day proclaimed as a holiday, shall receive a day’s pay for the holidays mentioned below, and probationary employees covered by this Agreement who have been employed by the Company and have worked in respect of fifteen (15) days of the last thirty (30) calendar days before a General Holiday occurred, shall receive a day’s pay for the holiday and groups of holidays listed below:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day B.C. Day Labour Day
-	Thanksgiving Day
-	Remembrance Day
-	December 24th
-	Christmas Day
-	Boxing Day
-	December 3 1 st
- Any other holiday proclaimed by the Provincial or Federal Government
Provided that the employee is available for work the day prior to such a holiday and the day after such a holiday, unless the employee is absent due to being on annual vacation or a verified illness or has obtained permission from his supervisor.
The above noted General Holidays shall be observed for a period of twenty-four (24) hours beginning with the starting time of the
44
day shift for each department on the day proclaimed as the holiday. The employee shall be free from work for thirty-two (32) consecutive hours.
(b)	An employee shall be paid for each General
Holiday at the rate of pay he normally would have earned the day preceding the holiday, including shift differential, lead hand premium, T.Q.C. premiums and First Aid premiums, even if it falls on the employee’s regular weekly day or days off, or on annual vacation.
(c)	Should a General Holiday(s) fall on an employee’s normal day(s) off, the scheduled work day(s) immediately following will be observed as the holiday(s). At the Company’s discretion the Plant may be closed, in whole or in part, between Christmas and New Years. The Union will be notified of such closure by November 1 st. During this period the twelve (12) month guarantee as specified in Article 10.05(a)(i) will not apply.
(d)	When an employee is required to work on a
General Holiday, the employee shall be paid at double the applicable hourly rate of pay for all hours worked on that day and, in addition, shall be paid eight (8) hours at the applicable hourly rate of pay for the General Holiday.
-45 -
(e)	The Company agrees to pay an employee who is entitled to General Holiday pay, the difference between the payment received under the Health Benefit Plan for the day and eight (8) hours pay at the regular hourly rate of pay, whenever the employee is absent from work because of illness or quarantine, provided the employee is not absent for a period exceeding thirty (30) calendar days.
(f)	General Holidays shall be considered as time worked except for qualifying for other General Holiday pay.
(g)	For the purpose of qualifying for General Holiday pay as outlined in (a) above, time on weekly indemnity and W.C.B. shall be considered as time worked.
ARTICLE 18.00 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
18.01	(a) In the event of the death of an employee’s spouse, child, parent, and/or parent-in-law, and upon the request of a non-probationary employee, the Company will grant the employee five (5) days leave of absence with pay at the regular straight time hourly rate of pay for the time lost from the employee’s regular schedule. In the event of the death of an employee’s grandparent, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, and/or grandchild, the Company will grant three (3) days leave of absence with pay, as described
-46-
above. The three (3) or five (5) days can be used prior to or after, including the funeral. If the employee is notified of the death while he is working, he will be excused from and paid for the balance of that working shift and such time shall not be charged against the days of paid leave granted.
(b) An employee shall be granted time off without pay for the purpose of attending the funeral of any other relative or close friend, provided that twenty-four (24) hours notice is given requesting such leave and the granting of such leave is not inconsistent with the efficient operation of the Plant.
ARTICLE 19.00 - JURY DUTY
19.01	Any employee who is required to perform jury duty or is called on as a witness by the Crown, on a day on which the employee would normally have to work, will be paid at his regular hourly rate for the regularly scheduled hours of work missed in the performance of such duty. It is understood that such pay shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week. The employee will be required to furnish proof of jury service and of any jury duty pay received. The amount of juiy duty pay received by the employee will be deducted from the employee’s next paycheque. Employees not providing proof of jury service and/or jury duty pay received will have the pay received for hours -47-
missed while on jury duty deducted from their paycheques. Any employee on jury duty shall be available for work before and after being required for such duty, whenever practical. This clause will have no application for an employee on Leave of Absence, or when receiving benefits under the Health Benefit Plan, annual vacations, Workers Compensation, or as otherwise covered in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 20.00 - HOURS OF WORK
20.01	Eight (8) hours shall constitute a day’s work and forty (40) hours shall constitute a week’s work to be worked Monday to Friday. All hours in excess of eight (8) hours per day shall be paid at the rate of double the hourly rate of pay. All hours in excess of forty (40) hours in one week shall be paid at the rate of double the hourly rate of pay.
20.02	The Company agrees to keep posted at all times a schedule setting forth normal daily hours of work for every department for every day of the week.
The maximum hours of work for a full shift shall be any eight (8) consecutive working hours as noted below:
Day Shift	-	6:00 a.m.	- 5:30 p.m.
Afternoon Shift	-	3:00 p.m.	- 2:00 a.m.
Graveyard Shift	-	11:00 p.m.	- 8:00 a.m.
-48
The shift starting times shall be:
Day Shift	- 6:00 a.m,, 6:30 a.m.,
7:00 a.m., 7:30 a.m., 7:45 a.m., 8:00 a.m., 8:15 a.m., 8:30 a.m., 9:00 a.m.
The Company agrees not to implement a 6:30 a.m. start time in the Quality Control Lab without consulting lab employees.
Afternoon Shift -	3:00 p.m., 3:30 p.m.,
4:00 p.m., 4:15 p.m., 4:30 pm., 4:45 p.m., 5:00 p.m., 5:30 p.m. Graveyard Shift - 11:00 p.m., 12:00 p.m.
20.03	Where additional shifts are required, a two-week swing shift shall be established. There shall be no split shifts.
20.04No employee’s shift will be changed without twenty-four (24) hours notice.
If, in an emergency, it is necessary to require an employee to work before the employee’s scheduled starting time, the Company agrees to pay the employee double the regular hourly rate of pay for any hours worked prior to the employee’s scheduled starting time.
If an employee is required to start work after the scheduled starting time, the Company agrees to pay the employee the regular -49 -
20.05 (a)
(b)
hourly rate of pay from the scheduled starting time except as specified in Article 12.07(c) of this Agreement.
20.06	An employee required to work more than eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period, beginning from the employee’s scheduled starting time, shall be paid at the overtime rate for the excess hours worked in such twenty-four (24) hour period. This provision shall not apply on a change in scheduled shift due to a lay-off or recall to work.
20.07	Employees who are scheduled to, and who report for work shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the applicable rate of pay whether the shift commences or does not commence. If the employee works in excess of four (4) hours he shall be paid six (6) hours at the applicable rate of pay. If the employee works in excess of six (6) hours he shall be paid eight (8) hours at the applicable rate of pay.
20.08	(a) Employees who work on a day off shall be
paid at the rate of double their regular hourly rate of pay.
(b)	Employees reporting for work on their day off or after leaving Company premises, who are specially called in for an emergency or emergencies at any time outside the normal working hours shall be through when the emergency or emergencies are over and shall
-50 -
be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at double the regular hourly rate.
20.09	(a) When overtime is to be worked on a shift, the employee working at the job on the shift shall perform the overtime. If such an employee has prior commitments, or cannot work the overtime for any justifiable reason, and another employee is available and able to perform the work, the employee need not perform the overtime.
(b)	When overtime is to be worked on a Saturday or Sunday, it shall be offered by seniority in the following sequence:
(i)	The overtime on Saturday to those
employees performing the work on the same shift on Friday, and the overtime on Sunday to those employees scheduled to perform the work on the same shift on Monday.
(ii)	To those employees who were normally performing the work on the shift within the Department.
(iii)	To those classified in the job within the Plant,
(iv)	To those in the Plant who can perform the work.
(v)	If none of the above listed employees agree to perform the overtime work, then
- 51 -
junior employees or Students who can perform the work must then work the overtime.
(c)	All employees who have requested overtime by signing an overtime request list shall be given, in order of seniority, first opportunity for all overtime on Saturdays, Sundays and General Holidays that is being performed by Students.
20.10	(a) There shall be two fifteen (15) minute paid
recess periods for all employees on each shift. The recess periods to be taken midway between the time of commencement and the time of completion of each half of each shift, with the exception of the employees working on the Tetra Brik operation. Employees working on the Tetra Brik operation shall take the recess periods as per posted schedule which will permit the continuous operation of the line subject to changes required will be by mutual agreement.
(b)	Employees who are required to work sixty (60) minutes or longer of overtime shall be given a fifteen (15) minute paid recess at the commencement of the overtime.
20.11	(a) Employees shall not be required to work
over five (5) hours from start of their scheduled shift without a thirty (30) minute meal break.
-52
(b)	Engineers, Technical Operators and Lab Technicians assigned to the Preparation Department shall eat their lunch on the job and shall be paid their lunch period.
(c)	The designated First Aid Attendant is to be on call during meal periods to perform First Aid duties, and shall be paid for the meal period at the straight time pay including all applicable premiums during the regular shift.
(d)	Upon completion of two (2) hours overtime following an employee’s regular shift, the employee shall receive a thirty (30) minute break period. If engaged in work after the meal, the time spent eating such meal shall be considered as time worked and the employee shall receive a meal allowance of seven dollars ($7.00) or will be provided a meal of comparable value. Should overtime continue beyond four (4) hours following the time allowed a meal break (after two hours overtime), then a further meal break shall be allowed with the same conditions as outlined above. This condition shall be repeated each four (4) hours.
53
ARTICLE 21 .00 - HEALTH BENEFIT PLAN
21.0	1 All regular employees who have worked a total of 1040 hours or more in the previous calendar year shall participate in the Health Benefit Plan. Having worked 1040 hours or more in a calendar year, regular employees who are not already covered will be registered in the Health Benefit Plan for the balance of that calendar year from the first day of the month following the month in which they qualify. That is, having worked 1040 hours in a calendar year, they qualify for the remainder of the year and the following year.
21.02New regular employees may qualify for participation in the Health Benefit Plan on a calendar year basis in accordance with Article 21 .01 or by working 1040 hours or more in the twelve (12) month period immediately following their date of hire. Regular employees who originally qualify on an anniversary year basis must re-qualify in subsequent years on a calendar year basis.
21.03	The Health Benefit Plan shall provide the following benefits to an employee who is a member of the Plan:
(a)	(i) Group life insurance of $30,000
(ii) Optional life insurance in units of $10,000 for employees and/or their spouses, the cost of which will be borne by the employees; and -54 -
(iii) Accidental death and dismemberment insurance providing benefits to a maximum of $30,000. Such coverage is occupational and non-occupational and provides for loss of life or limb within three hundred and sixty-five (365) days of an accident.
(b)	The B.C. Government’s Medical Services Plan.
(c)	Extended Health Care Plan. The Company agrees to the addition of prescription card coverage under the low cost alternative/reference based pricing system.
(d)	Non-occupational weekly indemnity coverage of 66 2/3% of average weekly regular earnings during the previous fifty-two (52) weeks up to $426.00 per week or the E.I. weekly maximum whichever is greater commencing on the eighth (8th) day of necessary absence due to sickness or accident, continuing for a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks during any period of disability. Periods of disability from the same cause shall be considered as separate periods of disability, provided they are separated by a return to work for at least two (2) full weeks.
(e)	Long-term disability benefits of 60% of average weekly regular earnings during the
-55 -
fifty-two (52) weeks prior to the date of disability up to $426.00 per week or the E.I. weekly maximum whichever is greater commencing after twenty-seven (27) weeks ofdisability, continuing for a period of up to seventy-eight (78) weeks from the commencement of this benefit and for up to sixty-five (65) years of age if permanently and totally disabled.
(f)	Dental plan which provides a benefit of eighty percent (80%) of the cost of basic dental services, fifty percent (50%) of the cost of crowns and bridges, and fifty percent (50%) of the cost of orthodontic services to a maximum of $2,000 per person per lifetime.
21.04	Regular employees who have worked sixty-two (62) shifts will be covered under the Medical Services Plan as provided by the B.C. Government and will continue to be covered until their employment is terminated.
21.05	For employees who become laid off, the Company shall remit contributions required to maintain the Medical Services Plan of B.C. Coverage, Extended Health Care Benefit, the Group Term Life Insurance Benefits, and Dental,
21.06	Non-occupational weekly indemnity benefits and long-term disability benefits will not be obtainable to those employees who are on lay-off.
-56
21,07	Benefits to employees under the Health Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contracts made between the Company and the various plan underwriters.
2 1.08 The cost of the contribution to the Health Benefit Plan shall be borne by the Company for the length of this Collective Agreement, with the exception of the cost of optional life insurance.
21.09	Hours worked for eligibility for the Health Benefit Plan shall be defined as all regular hours worked, General Holidays, vacation hours, hours on W.C.B., and hours on weekly indemnity.
21.10	All hours worked, hours accumulated on W.C.B. and hours accumulated on weekly indemnity over 1040 to a maximum of 100 in a calendar year may be banked toward eligibility for the Health Benefit Plan in the next year.
2 1.11 Employees who are receiving long-term disability benefits will continue to be eligible for the other components of the Health Benefit Plan.
ARTICLE 22.00 - SICK LEAVE PROVISIONS
22.0	1 (a) All non-probationary employees will receive paid sick leave, which will accumulate at the rate of eight (8) hours for each calendar month in which the eligible employee works fifty percent (50%) or more of the available work time, or is on paid annual vacation, to a
- 57-
maximum of thirty (30) days. This clause does not apply to Plant Labour and Student employees as per Article 10.05 (i).
(b)	During any period of illness, hospitalization or accident treatment, the first five (5) full scheduled working days during which the eligible employee suffers from such illness, hospitalization, or accident treatment shall be deducted from the accumulated days as described in (a) above. Any part day on which the eligible employee is absent through illness, hospitalization, or accident treatment shall be deducted from the accumulated days if the absence from work is more than four (4) hours.
(c)	An eligible employee, as defined in Article 22.01(a), who is absent from work due to a dental appointment, chiropractic treatment, optometric service, or similar medical treatment or test, shall not be paid for the time he or she is absent from work to obtain such treatment or test unless the treatment or test is for a period of more than four (4) hours of the employee’s scheduled shift.
(d)	The Company also agrees to pay the difference between the number of hours worked and eight (8) hours pay at the rate of pay being received by the employee, on the particular day on which such an eligible employee leaves work on account of illness.
-58 -
(e)	The Company will continue to pay eight (8) hours pay at the regular rate of pay for each working day lost through illness or accident when the employee’s absence extends beyond the period when he qualifies for weekly indemnity and long term disability benefits upon satisfactory medical proof that the employee is unable to return to work at the plant. Such payment will be made by the Company until all accumulated sick leave, as described in (a) above has been paid.
(f)	Accumulated sick leave not used during a bona fide absence occasioned by sickness or accident shall not be compensated for by payment in cash under any circumstance.
(g)	An employee shall produce a Physician’s Certificate as proof of illness or accident if the employee’s illness or accident recovery is more than three (3) days.
(h)	When an employee is available for work after being absent due to illness or leave without pay, it is the employee’s responsibility to notify the Company before 1:00 p.m. on the day prior to being available for work, so that the supervisor can schedule work for the employee without causing the cancellation of work for a junior employee.
(i)	Any proven abuse of either the Health
Benefit Plan or the Sick Leave provisions of
-59 -
this Agreement will result in disciplinary action, which could lead to discharge.
ARTICLE 23.00 - PENSION PLAN
23.01	(a) The Company will contribute the following amounts to the Teamsters Local 2 13 Pension Plan for each hour worked, each hour of vacation entitlement, and each hour of General Holiday paid to an employee who has accumulated fifteen hundred (1500) working hours since his date of employment with the Company.
(i)	from September 1, 1999 - one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50)
(ii)	from September 1, 2000 - one dollar and sixty cents ($1.60)
(iii)	from September 1, 2001 - one dollar and seventy cents ($1.70).
The Union will provide such an employee with the pension benefits in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Interior Teamsters Local 213 Pension Plan as provided in the Booklet.
(b) Retirement
An employee shall retire from employment with the Company at the end of the calendar month in which the employee’s 65th birthday occurs or at a time consistent with
- 60 -
Federal and/or Provincial law.
ARTICLE 24.00 - APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
24.0	1 It shall be the Company’s policy to obtain suitable candidates for training in an apprenticeship program. A Joint Committee will be formed and will be governed by the Company and the Union, under the guidance of the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch of the Ministry of Labour, Province of B.C.
24.02	The program shall cover apprenticeship in the trades of Millwright and Electrician, and the number of apprentices shall be at the discretion of the Company in consultation with the Union.
24.03	The applicant selected for training as an apprentice shall meet all the requirements and fulfil the obligations under the Apprenticeship and Training Development Act of B.C. The applicant shall be on probation as an apprentice for a period of six (6) calendar months during which time the apprentice may return to the former job held with the Company or the Company may return the apprentice to the former job, if satisfactory progress is not being made.
24.04	In the event of a lay-off, an apprentice shall be protected up to the point where insufficient work in the trade is available for the Tradesman of the particular trade to which the employee is apprenticed.
61
24.05	The rate of pay for an apprentice shall be as specified in Schedule “A” of this Agreement, and shall be shown in the contract between the Company and the apprentice with the approval of the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch of the Ministry of Labour, Province of British Columbia.
24.06	Unsuccessful completion of any one (1) year of apprenticeship after two (2) attempts at completion of the tests, etc. will result in automatic termination of the employee’s apprenticeship.
24.07	An apprentice who is in the program will work in the trade he is taking under the guidance of a trades person but still under the supervision of a supervisor.
24.08	The Company will pay the difference between the employee’s regular straight time rate and any applicable Canada Manpower grant as well as a living away from home allowance of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per week for apprentices while they are attending the apprenticeship training in an approved vocational school out of the Kelowna area as required by the Apprenticeship Board.
62
ARTICLE 25.00 - TECHNOLOGICAL AND/OR ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGE
25.01	It is understood that there may be technological or organizational changes introduced by the Company that affect the terms and conditions or security of employment of one or more employees or alter significantly the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated. The Company and the Union agree that the intent of technological or organizational change is not to contract out bargaining unit work.
25.02	For the purpose of this Article, organizational change refers to a realignment of jobs, change in the methods of performing work, the redistribution of work performed by members of the bargaining unit, or a reduction in the number of employees performing a specific job for an extended period of time. It does not refer to a temporary reduction in the number of employees performing a specific existing job. Such reductions are dealt with under Article 12,00.
25.03	In the event of a pending technological change, the Company shall advise the Union in writing of such change at the earliest opportunity and in no event less than three (3) months from the impending change.
63
25.04	In the event of a pending organizational change, the Company shall give reasonable notice in writing to the Union.
25.05	Upon written notice of a pending technological or organizational change, a Joint Committee shall be established, composed of a minimum of three (3) persons including the Chief Shop Steward, representing the Union and three (3) persons representing the Company.
25.06	Within three (3) months of formation, the Committee shall make recommendations to the Company and the Union to ensure that the interests of the Company and the employees are fairly and effectively protected.
25.07	When a technological or organizational change occurs: the Company shall provide adequate retraining arrangements for the employees displaced so that the employees can fill other jobs within the Company that are commensurate with their seniority, ability and qualifications.
25.08	An employee who loses his posted position and is transferred to a lower paying job because of technological or organizational change shall be treated as follows:
(a)	If the employee held a DE position he will at no time earn less than his original rate of pay, unless he voluntarily accepts another posting below the Group 4 level. During this period of wage protection, the Company shall have - 64 -
the right to place the employee into any vacant position, with his DE status, without following the posting procedure in Article 13.00, providing it will not displace an incumbent DE. The employee will also retain his right to return to his former position should a vacancy occur.
(b)	If the employee did not hold a DE position, he shall have his regular rate of pay red-circled for a period of two years provided he spent at least sixty percent (60%) of the operating time during the previous year in the posted position or sixty percent (60%) of his working time since he acquired the posting if this is less than one year. If he worked less than sixty percent (60%) of the operating time in his posting during this period, he shall have his regular rate of pay red-circled for a period of one year.
(c)	For purposes of red-circling, regular rate of pay refers to the employee’s base wage rate plus any premiums to which he was entitled on a regular, continuous basis.
25.09	(a) Subject to the seniority provisions of this Agreement, employees who are terminated as a result of the closing of the Plant or Department or as a consequence of technological or organizational change shall be entitled to severance allowance in accordance with their seniority. The amount -65 -
of severance allowance to which an employee shall be entitled is specified in (b) below.
(b)	An employee who is terminated because of the technological or organizational change shall be entitled to severance pay at the rate of five (5) weeks pay after three (3) years of service, and two (2) weeks pay for each year of service thereafter.
(c)	Employees displaced as described in Article
25.09	(a) who have the seniority to work, but who for a good medical reason are unable to perform the work to which their seniority entitled them, may be considered for the severance allowance in Article 25.09 (b).
25.10It is understood that unresolved disputes arising out of technological or organizational change shall be settled using the normal grievance and arbitration procedures specified in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 26.00 - WAGES AND
CLASSIFICATIONS
26.01	Wages and classifications shall be set out in Schedule “A” and the job description of the classifications will be as set out in a permanent Job Book in the Personnel Office. Copies of Job Book descriptions will be made available for Union inspection.
-66
26.02	The Company shall inform the Union of any new classification that may become necessary during the term of this Agreement and the wages shall be negotiated by the Parties, and covered by a supplement to this Agreement. Once a new rate has been established, it shall be paid retroactive to the introduction date of the new classification.
26.03	(a) When an employee is required to fill the
place of another employee receiving a higher rate of pay, the employee shall receive the higher rate of pay.
(b)	When an employee is required to fill temporarily the place of another employee receiving a lower rate of pay, his or her rate will not be changed to the lower rate of pay.
(c)	When, due to seniority, an employee is scheduled to work in a job with a lower rate of pay because the original work being performed by the employee is no longer available, the employee’s rate of pay will be reduced to the lower rate of pay.
26.04	Lead Hands
(a)	The designation of Lead Hands will be made on the basis of a joint Union/Management Committee. The Committee shall have equal representation of employees from the area affected and must agree on the successful candidate. Selection shall be based on skill and ability, performance, seniority, training -67 -
and education and job related experience. No Lead Hand shall hire, suspend, discharge, or exercise discipline over any other employee. A Lead Hand shall be responsible to carry out the orders of the immediate Supervisor. If, for any reason, the employee is unable to carry out the orders of the immediate Supervisor, he or she is expected to report it to a Plant Supervisor or a Plant Manager.
(b)	A Lead Hand designated by a Plant Manager or a Plant Supervisor shall be paid the Lead Hand premium in Schedule “A”, above the highest regular hourly rate being received by any employees of the group over which the Lead Hand function is performed for the duration of the assignment.
26.05	Training
An employee who is delegated the responsibility of training another employee in a classified job shall be paid a premium of fifty cents (505) per hour for the duration of the assignment. Tradesmen providing instruction to apprentices will not be eligible for this premium.
26.06	Time Records
A copy of the time record of any employee whose hours of work and/or rate of pay are subject of a grievance, shall be made available to the Union on loan, if required.
- 68 -
26.07	Tool Allowance
(a)	A tool allowance of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per year will be paid to each millwright, electrician, packaging technician, forklift mechanic, engineer, mechanic’s helper, and apprentice to provide for replacement of lost or broken tools that are required on the job. This tool allowance will be paid in two (2) equal installments of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) during the first week of January and July of each year.
(b)	If an employee who receives a tool allowance terminates his employment with the Company, he will be entitled to a prorated portion of the next installment that he would have received.
26.08	Clothing
(a)	All non-probationary employees shall be provided with one pair of laundered coveralls or uniform per week. All Tradesmen, Linemen and Tetra Brik Operators shall be provided with three pair of laundered coveralls per week. Technical Operators shall receive one pair of laundered coveralls per day.
(b)	All employees shall wear the provided clothing as a condition of employment when working on Company premises. Exceptional
-69 -
circumstances will be given consideration by the Company.
(c)	The Company shall provide waterproof aprons, gloves and rubber boots to employees performing jobs for which such clothing is considered necessary by the Company. This clothing shall not be removed from the Company’s premises, except with the permission of a Plant Manager.
(d)	Coveralls, waterproof clothing and other items on loan to employees by the Company must be returned to the Company when worn out or when an employee leaves the employ of the Company. If such items are not returned, the cost of the items may be deducted from the employee’s wages.
(e)	All employees shall at all times wear approved head coverings, including hair nets, in and around the Plant.
26.09	Shift Premiums
(a)	An employee who works four (4) hours or more on the afternoon shift shall be paid a differential of forty cents (40^) per hour for each hour worked during the whole shift.
(b)	An employee who works four (4) hours or more on the graveyard shift shall be paid a differential of seventy cents (70^) per hour
- 70
for each hour worked during the whole shift.
26.10	Banked Overtime
(a)	Where an employee desires to bank his overtime for the purpose of additional time off, he shall request and complete a form supplied by the Company indicating this. Each employee will be limited to making or rescinding such a request twice in a calendar year.
(b)	Overtime which is accumulated as time off shall be credited in terms of hours and, when taken as time off, shall be paid out at the regular straight time hourly rate as accumulated. When an employee leaves the Company, all accumulated hours in the employee’s overtime bank will be paid out in total.
(c)	An employee may, at any time, request all or part of his banked overtime days. The requested day or days off, up to a total of ten (10) days may be granted provided that fourteen (14) calendar days written notice has been given, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Company and the employee. Banked overtime days shall not be granted during the months of June to September inclusive, except where mutually agreed to by the employee and Company.
-71 -
(d)	All banked overtime must be taken by the end of the first pay period in the next year or it will be paid out at the end of the second pay period in the next year.
(e)	The Company will keep a record of all banked overtime which will be available for perusal by the employee.
(f)	Example of banked overtime accumulation:
Overtime worked	Hours accumulated
One (1) hour at double time One (1) hour banked
and one (1) hour
paid
OR
two (2) hours banked.
(g)	In lieu of time off, an employee may request
all or part of his accumulated banked overtime as pay. Should an employee wish to do this, he will make a written request to the Payroll Clerk at least five (5) working days prior to the scheduled pay day on which he wishes to receive his banked overtime pay.
26.11	Pay Statements
All employees will be given a statement showing the number of hours worked, including overtime hours, if any, and rate of pay per hour, holiday amount as computed including deductions, if any. The pay stub must show the period for which it -72 -
was issued. Pay statements will be issued every second Thursday. Pay shall be by automatic payroll deposit into each employee’s bank account, no later than 3:00 am. on Friday. Employees not currently on automatic deposit will have until August 3 1, 2000 to change over. The total amount of Union dues deducted shall be included on the employees’ T-4 slips.
26.12	The Company will pay one hundred dollars ($100.00) annually for approved safety footwear, to be paid as a non-taxable benefit on the employee’s regular pay cheque, in the first half of January each year. Employees may elect to be paid two hundred dollars ($200.00) every two years. If safety regulations or health related reasons not covered by Extended Health Benefits require an additional outlay for this footwear, the Company will reimburse the employee for the extra amount. Any additional expenses must be approved by the Manager Employee Relations and Development prior to the purchase.
26.13	All Graveyard Shift Plant Clean-up employees shall be paid for their regularly scheduled thirty (30) minute lunch break at their regular straighttime rate. This means they shall work seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours including their regular recess breaks and be paid eight (8) hours at the regular straight-time rate.
-73
26.14	Cost of Living Allowance
(a)	If at any time during the twelve (12) months commencing June 1, 1994, the All Canada C.P.I. increases by two and one-half percent (2.5%) or greater above its level on June 1, 1994, the Company will increase the wage rates of all classifications specified in Schedule “A” by an additional one-half percent (1/2%) to be paid effective September 1, 1995.
(b)	This COLA payment will apply so long as the two and one-half percent (2.5%) trigger is surpassed at any time during the specified period whether or not the All Canada C.P.I. subsequently decreases.
26.15	Red Circle Protection
(a)	All non-DE employees on the regular seniority list with a seniority date earlier than September 1,1996 will hold a red circle pay rate of $ 16.7 1 per hour.
(b)	The above employees will receive this red circle rate of pay whenever they perform work in a job that existed before September 1,1996 and was paid at the former Group 1 or Group 2 rates.
(c)	Any employee who voluntarily gives up his posting to go into the labour pool will lose his red circle wage rate protection.
-74 -
ARTICLE 27.00 - MINIMUM STANDARDS
27.01	(a) It is intended that the provisions contained in
the Employment Standards Act and Regulations (Act), presently in effect and from time to time amended, are minimum requirements only.
(b)	In the event this Collective Agreement does not contain a provision which is contained in the Act, such provision shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Collective Agreement as part of its terms.
(c)	In the event this Collective Agreement contains a provision which is a lesser requirement than a similar or related provision contained in the Act, then the provision contained in the Act shall prevail, and shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Collective Agreement as part of its terms.
(d)	In the event a dispute arises respecting the application or interpretation of any provision of the Act which is deemed to be part of the terms of this Collective Agreement, if necessary, shall apply for resolution of the dispute.
ARTICLE 28.00 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
28.01	This Agreement shall be in effect from September 1, 1999 to August 3 1, 2002 and thereafter from year to year unless either Party gives to the other
-75 -
notice, in writing, of its intention to negotiate a new Agreement. Such notice is to be given within the period of not less than two (2) months nor more than four (4) months prior to the expiration of this Agreement, or any subsequent annual expiration date.
The provisions of Section 50 (2) of the Labour Relations Code are hereby excluded.
76
SCHEDULE “A” - HOURLY WAGE RATES
Effective Effective 01 Sept/99 01 Sept/00 1% 1%
STUDENTS	$ 9.02	S 9.11
GROUP 1	S 11.99	S 12.11
Plant Labour
GROUP 22	$16.32	$16.48
Formed Bar Enrober Operator NPF Packaging Operator NPF Process Operator
GROUP 3	$ 17.92	S 18.10
Closing Machine Attendant Peeling Machine Operator Allen Cooker Operator
GROUP 4	$18.11	$18.29
Filler Operator
Sauce Packaging Operator
77
Effective 01 Sept/01 1%
$ 9.20
$ 12.23 0R
$ 16.65 $ 18.28 $ 18.47
GROUP 5
Fork Lift Operator Light Truck Operator Receiving Clerk Fork-Lift Supply & ReliefTetraBrik Clean-up Class 1 Mechanic's Helper Parts Room Attendant Tray Pack Operator
GROUP 6
Laboratory Technician Lineman
GROUP 7
TetraBrikOperator
Technical Operator
GROUP 8
Truck Driver
GROUP 9
Chief Steam Engineer Engineer - Class 3 Tradesman
Packaging Technician
$ 18.36 $ 18.54 $ 18.73
$ 18.68 S 18.87 $ 19.06
$ 19.21	$ 19.40 $ 19.59
$	19.46	$	19.65	$	19.85
$	23.03	$	23.26	$	23.49
78 -
APPRENTICES
Start........
After 6 months.
After 12 months After 18 months After 24 months After 30 months After 36 months After 42 months
PREMIUMS PAYABLE
Any premiums except shift premiums to which an employee is entitled do not compound during overtime.
Journeyman Tradesmen (with T.Q.C. or Interprovincial Certificate)
Additional per hour worked - $0.50
Steam Engineer Class 3 and Above Additional per hour worked - $0.50
Chief Steam Engineer
Additional per hour worked - $0.50 above Lead
Hand premium
Designated First Aid Attendants
Additional per hour worked	-	$1.25
Shift Differential - per hours worked
Afternoon Shift	-	$0.40
Graveyard Shift	-	$0.70
Lead Hand
Additional per hour worked	-$1.00
-79 -
65% of Trades 70% of Trades 75% of Trades 80% of Trades 85% of Trades 90% of Trades 95% of Trades 100% of Trades
Trainer on Classified Jobs
Additional per hour worked - $0.50
B-Train Driver
Additional per hour worked - $0.40
Tri-Axle Driver
Additional per hour worked - $0.20
Fork Lift Operators Working: Sept.1/99 Sept.1/00
Additional per hours worked - $0.50	$0.75
-	in the warehouse
-	at the end of the tetra lines
-	feeding the apple juice dumping line
-	Slab and Receiving Dept. jobs
Employees will receive a productivity incentive sharing payment or one percent (1%) of gross wages earned, whichever is greater, payable August 31, 2001 for the year effective September 1, 2000 and payable August 3 1, 2002 for the year effective September 1, 2001.
The hourly rates as described in Schedule “A” shall have progression rates subject to the following conditions:
Employees as of the date of ratification will remain at the top rate of their current classification.
START, MID AND TOP RATES
First six months Second six months Thereafter
per hour less per hour less - Full rate
80
Current employees holding postings above Group 1 as of the date of ratification of this Agreement who post to a lower paid position, or are assigned in a relief capacity because of displacement, will receive the Top Rate for the new position. Current employees holding postings above Group 1 as of the date of ratification of this Agreement who post a higher paid position will receive the Start Rate for that position or the rate they were receiving in the former position, whichever is greater. If the employee’s rate in the former position is less than the Top, Mid or Start Rates for the new position, then normal progression times and increments would apply. Any employee requested by the Company to fill a job in a relief capacity will receive the Start Rate or the Top Rate for the position, depending on his level of skill and experience. Any employee who has worked in a relief capacity in a classified job prior to the ratification of this agreement will continue to receive the Top Rate for that job.
Employees who are hired or post into positions above Group 1 after the date of ratification of the Agreement will be placed at the Start Rate for their position, and will follow the progression outlined above.
81
SCHEDULE “B” - TIME PERIODS
In accordance with Article 13.03, the following time periods apply for employees posting to new positions:
TIME PERIODS TRAINING/
DECISION PROBATION EXCLUSION Working Working Calendar
_____________________________Shifts Shifts Days
GROUP 22
NPF Packaging Operator NPFProcessOperator Formed Bar Enrober Operator
GROUP 3
Closing Machine Attendant Peeling Machine Allen Cooker Operator
GROUP 4
Sauce Packaging Operator Filler Operator
GROUP 5
Fork Lift Operator Light Truck Operator Receiving
Fork-Lift Supply & Relief Tetra Brik
Clean-up Class 1 Mechanic's Helper
10	30	180
10	30	180
10	30	180
5	10	0
5	10	0
5	10	0
5	10	0
5	10	0
10	20	0
5	10	0
10	20	0
10	20	0
15	20	0
10	20	0
-82 -
Parts Room Attendant Tray Pack Machine Operator
GROUP 6
Lab Technician Lineman
GROUP 7
Tetra Brik Operator Technical Operator Technical Operato(GYD) Tetra Brik HTSTCleaner
GROUP 8
Truck Driver
GROUP 9
Chief Steam Engineer Engineer - Class 3 Tradesman
Packaging Technician
Working	Working	Calendar
Shifts	Shifts	Days
10	20	0
10	20	0
10	90	180
5	90	0
10	90	180
10	90	180
15	90	180
15	90	180
5	30	0
0	90	0
0	90	0
0	90	0
0	90	0
Exclusion Periods may be waived if mutually agreed by the Company and the Union.
83
SCHEDULE “C” - GAIN SHARING PROGRAM
Both Parties to this Collective Agreement agree to actively work together through a Joint Labour-Management Committee to achieve the objectives of the Gain Sharing/Productivity Incentive Program (GS/PIP) as outlined below.
The objectives of the Gain Sharing/Productivity Incentive Program are to:
(a)	Provide an increase in compensation in line with the growth of the Company.
(b)	Generate an improvement in productivity, efficiency, quality and a reduction of costs.
(c)	Maintain a close relationship between expenses and Company performance.
(d)	To improve employee morale and performance at all levels through employee involvement and improved communication.
(e)	Encourage and reward improved attendance.
(f)	Enhance employee commitment to teamwork, quality and productivity.
(g)	To share gains between employees and the Company from productivity and quality improvements.
(h)	To establish a Joint Labour-Management Committee to develop and implement the Gain Sharing/Productivity Incentive Program.
-84 -
PROPOSED PROGRAM GUIDELINES
To be determined by the Joint Labour-Management Committee.
85 -
LETTER OF INTENT
Reference:	Teamsters Local 213 Shop Stewards
Education Fund
The Company will make a contribution of one cent (10) per hour to the Teamsters Local 213 Shop Stewards Education Fund. Contributions to this fund will be made against those hours:
1)	actually worked by employees,
2)	on General holidays recognized by our Collective Agreement for which wages are payable, and
3)	for which wages are payable during an employee’s annual vacation, based on a maximum of forty (40) hours per week of vacation entitlement. The Company’s, contribution for the above fund will be made on a straight-time basis.

LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
October 26,1990
Reference: Foremen and Lead Hands
The Parties recognize that a Lead Hand is essentially a working foreman. They also recognize that the restrictions on foremen working have caused a number of grievances and operating difficulties that the Parties wish to avoid.
-86 -
Therefore, it is agreed that:
•	the “Foreman” classification will no longer be used and all references to Foremen will be deleted from the collective agreement;
. the following named employee who currently holds the classification of Foreman will become Lead Hand in his department and work in accordance with Article 26,04
* Chris Vanderkamp *
■	the named individual will continue to earn his current wage rate until such time as the wage rate for Lead Hands exceed the current Foreman’s rate (i.e. he will have his current wage rate “red circled”) and under no circumstances will the individual earn less than his current rate as a result of the elimination of the Foreman classification;
■	the designation of the individual as Lead Hand rather than Foreman will not be used to reduce the number of employees in these departments; and
•	other than the named individual, all other Lead Hands will be appointed in accordance with Article 26.04.
The Parties recognize that any special benefits or guarantees that apply to the named individual to compensate him for this change shall not continue for
-87 -
any other individuals after the individual terminates employment or ceases to hold the current position.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
December 22, 1989
Reference: Article 6.03 (b) Contracting Out
It is agreed between the Parties that for the purposes of Article 6.03 (b) the definition of “work” means the regular and normal maintenance function and any construction work that in the past has been performed by the Tradesmen and which is work normally done by the Tradesmen which in all the circumstances would be reasonable for the Tradesmen with seniority to perform.
It is further agreed that this is the interpretation of Article 6.03(b) for the purpose of “work” defined above; there shall be deemed to be added to the sixth (6th) line of the Article, after the word “lay-off’, the phrase “who would normally perform the work..“. This interpretation shall not change the language of Article 6.03(b). It is for the purposes of interpretation only.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Reference: Article 10.02
August 16, 1993
The Parties agree to delete Article 10,02 - Regular Employee List - from the Collective Agreement and renumber the remaining clauses of the Article appropriately as the Regular Employee List no longer exists.
However, the following named employees, who held “regular employee” status prior to February 28, 1975, shall retain all of the rights to which they were entitled under Article 10.02 - Regular Employees List. This means that, for as long as they remain Sun-Rype employees, they will have the equivalent of DE status, whether they continue to hold a DE position or not.
Employees covered by this Letter of Understanding are: Gordon Hamm Jerome Veller Rodney Rath Umberto Cagnoni Richard Hawley George Hermanson
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Reference: Article 20	August 16, 1993
- Hours of Work
The Company and the Union recognize that the Company will have to implement alternative shift schedules that incorporate Saturday and/or Sunday work in order to remain competitive and attract new business to the Company’s operations in the future.
-89 -
Further, the Parties recognize that many of the details of such schedules are not known at this time and must be defined at the time new business is attracted which requires the implementation of such schedules.
Therefore the Parties agree that, as the need arises in the future, such alternative schedules will be developed and implemented in accordance with the following:
A joint Union/Management Committee will be established to investigate and report on all matters relating to the implementation of non-standard work schedules. The Committee will be comprised of three (3) representatives of the Company and three (3) of the Union and will present its findings and recommendations to the Vice President, Production and the Chief Shop Steward or the Business Agent as soon as possible.
If the Parties are in agreement regarding the recommendations of the Committee, a Letter of Understanding will be prepared and signed to govern the implementation of alternative work week schedules. If agreement cannot be reached regarding the method of implementation of new schedules by the Union/Management Committee, the Parties agree to submit those implementation issues that remain in dispute between the Parties to a grievance panel or arbitrator for resolution.
2.	Any work week schedule that involves Saturday and/or Sunday work will attract a premium of ten
-90 -
percent (10%) of the employee’s base wage rate for all hours worked on Saturday and/or Sunday.
3.	Prior to implementation of any alternative work week schedules, the Company will meet with the employees in the affected departments and explain the issues and its ideas on such schedules to them.
4.	In determining schedules for non-standard work weeks, seniority will be a governing factor. This will not preclude the implementation of rotational shift schedules.
5.	Employees working on alternative shift schedules will not receive additional wages, benefits or other entitlements other than those specified in 2 above or as specifically agreed by the Parties.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Reference:	Technological/Organizational Change and
Contracting Out of Work
The Company and the Union agree that the intent of introducing new language to deal with change under Article 25.00 during 1996 negotiations is to neither strengthen nor weaken either the Company’s or the Union’s current rights with respect to the contracting out of bargaining unit work.
Article 25.00 will not be used to justify the contracting out of bargaining unit work. Should contracting out be -91 -
considered necessary in the future, it shall be done in accordance with Article 6.03.

LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Reference: Alternate Shift Schedules Hours of Work:
Employees working 12 hour shift schedules will work:
1.	A cycle consisting of two 12 hour day shifts, two 12 hour night shifts, four days off. This is an eight day cycle and requires an eight week period for a full rotation; or,
2.	Any other shift rotation mutually agreed by the Company and the Union.
Employees working the above schedule will work 48 hours per week in each of four weeks and 36 hours per week in each of four weeks, over the eight week rotation, This averages out to 42 hours per week. On an averaged basis, this is two hours of work per week over the normal 40 hour work week. Therefore two hours per week will be paid at overtime rates during the eight week rotation, in the following manner. In the weeks where 48 hours are normally worked, all hours worked after 44 will be paid at overtime rates, Hours on paid vacation, General Holiday, banked overtime, bereavement, jury duty and Union business shall be
92
considered as time worked for the purposes of overtime calculation,
Employees assigned to 12 hour shifts will continue to work for a full 8 week cycle, regardless of their seniority.
The overtime hours will be paid in the pay periods in which the 48 hour weeks fall, and will be paid, banked, or half paid half banked according to the employee’s current overtime instruction. One instruction must apply to all of an employee’s overtime.
There may be non-posted labouring work required on Saturday and/or Sunday, on the production lines operating seven days a week (eg. stacking in Tetra). These positions will be filled at regular rates of pay by Plant Labour employees, in seniority order, who did not have the seniority to work a full 40 hours Monday to Friday.
General Holidays:
If a General Holiday falls on an employee’s regularly scheduled 12 hour shift day and as a result the employee does not work that day, the employee will receive 12 hours pay for the General Holiday. If the employee was scheduled to work 48 hours that week, he shall receive 4 hours pay at overtime rates provided that he works the remaining 36 hours. Hours on paid vacation, General Holiday, banked overtime, bereavement, jury duty and Union business shall be considered as time worked for the purposes of overtime calculation.
- 93
If a General Holiday falls on an employee’s regularly scheduled 12 hour shift day and the employee is required to work, he shall receive 12 hours pay for the General Holiday, and all hours worked on the General Holiday shall be paid at overtime rates.
If a General Holiday falls on a regularly scheduled day off for an employee on a 12 hour shift schedule, the employee shall receive 8 hours pay for the General Holiday.
Sick Pay:
Sick time will be calculated in hours instead of days. Employees will be credited with 8 hours per month into their sick banks. If a 12 hour shift is missed due to sickness, employees will be paid 12 hours sick pay, and 12 hours will be deducted from their banks. Sick banks cannot go below a zero balance. If an employee leaves work prior to the end of the shift due to illness, no sick day will be deducted from his bank provided he worked at least six hours of the shift.
Employees on 12 hour shifts suffering from a lengthy illness will have the first 40 hours of time lost to such an illness paid, and deducted from their sick banks, provided the bank has sufficient hours. Otherwise, the normal Collective Agreement provisions for qualification for wage indemnity will apply.
Vacation:
Vacation banks are calculated in hours. If a 12 hour shift is taken off as vacation, 12 hours will be deducted
-94 -
from the employee’s vacation bank. Should an employee wish to take a block of four 12 hour shifts off, 8 hours of the 48 hour block may be taken as Banked Overtime (if available) or unpaid leave, so that vacation may be kept in 40 hour blocks.
Shift Premium:
Premium on night shift is seventy-three cents (730) per hour.
10% Premium:
A ten percent (10%) premium on the employee’s base rate of pay will be paid for hours worked on Saturday and/or Sunday. The premium will be paid to the employees starting a day shift on Saturday morning and continuing through the weekend, finishing with the employees completing their shifts Monday morning.
Vacation and Absenteeism Relief:
Should an employee not regularly scheduled to work a 12 hour shift be required to work one or more 12 hour shifts to fill a temporary vacancy on a 12 hour shift rotation, the following overtime provisions shall apply:
1.	Employees who report to work on an 8 hour shift, and are then required to continue that shift to 12 hours, will be paid at overtime rates for any hours worked in excess of 8 hours.
2.	Employees scheduled to work a 12 hour shift shall receive overtime if they work in excess of 40 hours per week in the week in which the 12 hour shift was worked.
-95 -
3.	In the event that an employee scheduled to work 8 hour day or afternoon shifts is required to change to a 12 hour night shift and back again in the same week, overtime and/or pay for hours not worked due to shift changes may be paid, to ensure that the employee receives 40 regular hours paid for the week, and overtime for any hours worked in excess of 40.
Vacation or sickness replacement of employees
working 12 hour shifts will be done according to the
following principles:
1.	The Company will fill the vacant shifts in a manner calculated to minimize overtime. This may include any combination of calling in laid off employees, returning employees to their classified positions, changing employees’ jobs or shift assignments, keeping an 8 hour shift worker on the job an extra 4 hours, and calling in employees on an overtime basis.
2.	Any overtime worked as a result of 12 hour shifts missed by a scheduled employee will be offered first to 12 hour shift workers on their days off, provided that this is not inconsistent with the minimization of overtime as stated above.
3.	Employees scheduled to 12 hour shifts shall be paid at overtime rates for any hours worked outside of their regular scheduled shifts.
The transferring of employees from an 8 hour to a 12 -96 -
hour shift schedule shall be done as follows:
1.	When a temporary relief employee is available, that employee will be transferred to fill the 12 hour shift(s) required.
2.	When a temporary relief employee is not available;
(a)	where there is sufficient notice of an absence, a calendar showing the days to be filled and the hours and days of work resulting will be posted. The vacancy will be filled from those requesting, by the senior employee holding the posting.
(b)	when there is insufficient notice, or no employee has requested to fill the absence, employees holding the posting shall fill the shifts required in reverse order of seniority, on a rotational basis.
Breaks:
Employees working the 12 hour shifts will work relief to relief, will be paid for their lunch breaks, and will be expected to take the lunch break when work permits.
Employees working 12 hour shifts shall be entitled to three fifteen minute coffee breaks.
97
Signed at Kelowna, British Columbia this day of , 2000.
MANAGEMENT NEGOTIATION COMMITTEE
Michael Necula, Chairman Labour-Management Relations Consultant
Bob Dick, Member Vice-President, Manufacturing
Glenn Allison, Member
Manager Employee Relations and Development
98
UNION NEGOTIATION COMMITTEE
Gene Wirch, Chairman Business Representative
Curtis Leseach, Member Chief Shop Steward
Dave McIntosh, Member Shop Steward
John Phillipoff, Member Shop Steward
Roxie Terrace, Member Shop Steward
-99 -