ST. DAVIDS PLANT
INDEX
ARTICLE	PAGE
1	Recognition........................................1
2	Management Rights..................................^
3	Grievance Procedure................................2
4	Arbitration Procedure..............................4
5	Strikes and Lockouts...............................5
6	Seniority..........................................5
7	Lay-off Notice.....................................7
8	Posting of Vacancy.................................7
9	Reporting Allowance................................8
10	Call-in Pay........................................8
11	Leave of Absence...................................9
12	Leave of Absence for Union Business................9
13	Leave of Absence for Position with Union...........9
14	Court Duty...................................  ...10
15	Bereavement Allowance............................'*0
16	Safety............................................10
17	Hours of Work.....................................11
18	Wages.............................................12
19	Statutory Holidays................................13
20	Vacations.........................................14
21	Discrimination.................................. -14
22	RestPeriods.....................................--14
23	Bulletin Boards.................................. 15
24	Dismissed Employees.............................. 15
25	Shift Differential................................15
26	Union Security................................... 16
INDEX
(cont’d)
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
General..........................................17
Tools............................................jy
Union Business...................................18
Health and Welfare...............................18
Technological Change^............................19
Notice of Termination and Termination Allowance..19
Consultation.....................................20
Duration of Agreement............................20
Appendix “A".....................................22
Appendix “B”.....................................24
Appendix "C”.....................................24
Appendix “D".....................................25
Appendix “E”.....................................26
March 2,1999 - March 1, 2002
BETWEEN:	NABISCO LTD
ST. DAVIDS PLANT
St. Davids, Ontario
{hereinafter referred to as the "Company"}
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO-CLC, on behalf of its Local 617P
{hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
1.1	The Company recognizes that it is the right of the Union to act as sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all hourly rated employees of the Company at its St. Davids Plant, save and except foreman, persons above the rank of foreman, clerical employees, seasonal employees, nurses, and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week, and the persons excluded from the Unit by the terms of the Labour Relations Act.
1.2	Foremen and Supervisors will not perform work normally done by bargaining unit employees if performance of such work:
•	results in the lay-off of bargaining unit employees;
•	prevents bargaining unit employees from earning overtime premium payments;
•	results in bargaining unit employees working short time;
•	prevents the recall of bargaining unit employees.
-2-
ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.1	The Union recognizes that it is the exclusive function of the Company:
1(a) to maintain order, discipline and efficiency, put into effect, enforce and alter rules and regulations governing the conduct of employees, to determine job rating or classification, the hours of work, work assignments and methods of doing the work, the number of personnel required from time to time and the standards of performance for all employees, except as specifically limited by the provisions of this Agreement;
(b) to hire, retire, promote, demote, transfer, assign, direct, classify, suspend or otherwise discipline or discharge any employees for just cause, subject, however, to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance in the manner and to the extent provided elsewhere in this Agreement;
(c) to operate and manage its business in all respects and at all times; and without limiting the generality of the foregoing the location of plants and departments, the products to be manufactured, the materials to be used, the schedules of production, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing are solely and exclusively the responsibility of the Company.
ARTICLE 3 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
3.1	Any dispute arising out of the interpretation, application, administration or alleged
violation of this Agreement between any bargaining unit employee and the Company shall be settled in accordance with the following procedure.
Grievances must be submitted within ten (10) working days of the alleged occurrence leading to the grievance.
STEPNUMBER 1
The employee in the presence of his steward shall submit a written statement of the grievance dated and duly signed by himself and his steward, to the Foreman. Such written statement shall include a statement of facts upon which the grievance is based, the remedy or correction requested, and the section of the Agreement claimed to have been violated. If the Foreman fails to give a decision within three (3) working days, or if such a decision is not satisfactory to the employee, the employee and the steward shall present the grievance to the Plant Superintendent within three (3) working days of such failure to settle.
3
STEP NUMBER 2
A grievance submitted in accordance with the above shall be discussed at a meeting between the steward, the employee and the Plant Superintendent. If the Plant Superintendent fails to give a decision within three (3) working days, or if such a decision is not satisfactory to the employee, the employee and the steward shall present the grievance to the Plant Manager within three (3) working days of such failure to settle.
STEP NUMBER 3
A grievance submitted in accordance with the above shall be discussed at a meeting between the Grievance Committee and the Plant Manager or his designate and other representatives as the Company deems necessary. If the Plant Manager or his designate fails to give a decision within three (3) working days, or if such decision is not satisfactory, the grievance shall be dealt with at the following step.
STEP NUMBER 4
Failing settlement at Step Number 3, within three (3) working days of such failure to settle, the grievance shall be discussed by the Grievance Committee and a representative of the Union's Head Office and a Head Office Industrial Relations representative appointed by the Company and such other representatives as the Company deems necessary. If settled, the Grievance Committee and the Head Office Industrial Relations representative shall sign the grievance noting the disposition made.
3.2	Any grievance not submitted within the time limits nor advanced by the grieving party within the time limits provided for each step of the Grievance Procedure shall be deemed to have been dropped.
3.3	The grievances which have not been satisfactorily settled by the grievance procedure outlined above, shall be submitted to Arbitration for settlement within ten (10) working days after Section 3, Step Number 4.
3.4	When the Company has a grievance which it wishes to take up with the Union, it shall present it in a meeting with the Grievance Committee and such a meeting shall be equivalent to Section 3.1, Step Number 3 of the Grievance Procedure outlined above.
3.5	A steward may submit a grievance on behalf of an employee who is unable to do so for reasons of lay-off, leave of absence or sickness, provided that such grievance is approved by the grievor.
4
3.6	When the Union feels it has a general grievance affecting two (2) or more employees, it shall be presented by the Grievance Committee in a meeting with the Plant Manager as noted in Section 3.1, and such a meeting shall be equivalent to Section 3.1, Step Number 3, of the Grievance Procedure outlined above.
3.7	The time limits referred to in the Grievance Procedure may be extended by mutual agreement.
3.8	In the event of the dismissal of a seniority employee, a grievance may be submitted at Section 3.1, Step Number 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
3.9	A Grievance Committee shall consist of not more than three (3) seniority employees who are currently employed by the Company. The Company shall be advised of any change in the Grievance Committee. Committeemen may leave their work for the purpose of investigating or settling disputes, without loss of pay, subject to the following conditions.
(a)	A committeeman must obtain permission from his Foreman before leaving his place of work.
(b)	The time spent by committeemen for such purpose may be limited by the Company, if the Company considers it to be excessive.
(c)	No payment will be made to a committeeman for the time spent by him for such purposes, unless it is during his normal hours of work.
3.10	The union steward will be notified in writing of the suspension or dismissal of a seniority employee.
ARTICLE 4 - ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
4.1	If the Company or the Union requests that a grievance as provided above be submitted to arbitration, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, and at the same time, submit a list of five (5) Arbitrators for consideration. Within ten (10) working days from the receipt of the list of recommended Arbitrators the other party will either accept one (1) Arbitrator from the list or submit a list of five (5) Arbitrators to the aggrieved party for consideration. If no Single Arbitrator can be agreed upon from this list within ten (10) working days, either party may request the Ontario Minister of Labour to appoint an Arbitrator.
4.2	No person may be appointed as an Arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
-5-
4.3	The Single Arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to amend, alter, modify, or add
to, any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
4.4	The parties will equally share the fees and expenses of the Single Arbitrator.
4.5	The time limits referred to in the Arbitration Procedure may be extended by mutual agreement.
4.6	The decision of the Single Arbitrator will be final and binding upon the parties hereto, and the employee or employees concerned.
ARTICLE 5 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
5.1	The Company agrees that there will be no lockout and the Union agrees that no official of the Union, nor any employee, will call, sanction, encourage or participate in any strike, sit-down, employee demonstration, or any other organized or concerted interference with the Company's operations during the term of this Agreement. The Union further agrees that if any such collective action takes place, it will do all in its power to instruct its members to return to work. Any employee participating in any such collective action will be subject to discipline including discharge, subject to the right of the employee to lodge a grievance.
ARTICLE 6 - SENIORITY
6.1	An employee is considered to have regular employment status when:
(a)	employment is considered or expected to be on a fifty-two (52) weeks-a-year basis; or
(b)	employment is such that an employee completes thirty-six (36) weeks and one hundred and eighty (180) full or part days' service with the Company in a twelve (12) month period.
6.2	An employee shall have no seniority until he has accumulated eighty-five (85) working days of employment in a twelve (12) month period. After completion of such service his seniority shall date back to the day eighty-five (85) working days preceding the date on which he completed such period of service, at which time his name will be placed on the seniority list.
6.3	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited, and there shall be no obligation to rehire when he:
6
(a)	Voluntarily leaves the employ of the Company, or is dismissed for cause.
(An employee who is absent for two (2) consecutive working days without good und proper reason, or without first securing permission from the Company, may be considered to have left the Company's service of his own accord).
(b)	Fails to contact the Company within forty-eight (48) hours of being notified of recall (byphone orfailing contact by certified mail); ox subsequently fails to report for work within seven.(7) days of being recalled, unless he contacts the Company within seven (7) days of being called and secures permission to start at a later date. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the Company advised, (and the Union should be advised) in writing, of his current address and telephone number, if any. Failure to do so can result in loss of seniority, since the Company's obligation to call in an employee shall cease when it has attempted to contact him at his last known address.
(c)	Is laid off continuously for a period of more than eighteen (18) months.
6.4	An employee transferred from one plant of the Company to another shall retain his seniority, subject to approval by the local union of the plant to which he is transferred. In any case such employee will not be required to serve a probationary period and for purposes of rights within this Agreement, will be considered to be a seniority employee.
6.5	Should an employee who has been promoted or transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit be subsequently transferred back, he shall be credited with all prior seniority but will not be credited with service outside of the bargaining unit.
6.6	In cases of lay-offs, recalls and transfers of one day or more, the Company agrees to give preference to employees according to seniority, provided all other qualifications are comparatively equal.
6.7	When a seniority classified employee is temporarily transferred to a higher paying job for the convenience of the Company for one day or more, he shall receive the higher rate for all such hours worked, and when temporarily transferred to a lower paying job he shall not thereby receive a change in his regular hourly rate.
6.8	When it is necessary to reduce the working force, the order of lay-off shall be as follows:
First:	Seasonal probationary employees.
Second:	Seasonal seniority employees.
Third:	Regular employees.
-7In carrying out the lay-off procedure the following factors will be considered by the Company:
1.	Seniority.
2.	Ability to perform the work.
3.	Proven ability to exercise their seniority for Class 2 jobs and above.
When these factors are comparatively equal, seniority shall govern.
It is understood that employees on regular classified jobs may be required to carry out any function of the operation as directed, but shall not thereby receive a change in hourly rate. Assignment to such temporary work will be made on the basis of seniority within the classification.
Recall shall work in the reverse order, for employees with seniority.
ARTICLE 7 - LAY-OFF NOTICE
7.1	Seniority employees being laid off for more than five (5) consecutive working days shall be given (7) calendar days notice except where conditions beyond the control of the Company prevent it from doing so.
7.2	In case the stipulated notice is not given, the seniority employee will receive one week's pay in lieu of (forpurposes cf this clause one week's pay equals forty [40] hours pay).
ARTICLE 8 - POSTING OF VACANCY
8.1	When the Company feels that it is necessary to fill a position on the Classifiedjob
list, it shall be posted for seven (7) calendar days to give seniority employees seeking promotions an opportunity during those days to apply to fill the position. [Employees on lay-off shall be infomed cf any job postings.] The essential job requirements will be included on the posting. in considering qualified employees for the position, the Company agrees to give preference according to seniority, provided all other qualifications are comparatively equal. The vacancy resulting from the filling of the position posted, if to be filled, shall also be posted within a period of two (2) weeks. If a subsequent vacancy, if to be filled, occurs from the filling of the second vacancy, it shall also be posted within a period of two (2) weeks. Any subsequent vacancy caused by the filling of the first three (3), shall not be a vacancy for the purpose of this clause.
An employee who applies for a posted job and is accepted may not apply to fill a posted position within two (2) months of the promotion.
8
The Company agrees to furnish the Union with a copy of the job posting, the applicants, and the name of the successful candidate.
8.2	A successful candidate of a job posting will be on a trial basis for ten (10) working days. If management rates the employee as successful they will officially take thej ob position on the 11th working day, and the rate of pay for that position will be in effect. If they fail to meet the job requirements or decline the position by the 10th working day, they will return to their previous job. If the employee decides they no longer want the new-job position after the 11th day, they will be placed as a Production Worker and would not have the right to bump back to their previousj ob if it was Classified.
8.3	It is understood that when filling positions under the job posting procedure, the Company will be consistent each time in the requirements of the samejob.
8.4	Job Postings to be handled through the mail. Form letter will be sent to the employees two weeks prior to the closing of the Posting.
8.5	The Company agrees that if employees are unavailable for work due to verified illness, W.C.B. absences, or authorized leave of absence, for a period that is or expected to be in excess of thirty (30) worked days, and it is necessary for the Company to replace this individual, then the job will be posted on a temporary basis.
ARTICLE 9 - REPORTING ALLOWANCE
9.1	A seniority employee reporting for work as scheduled, unless given at least eight (8) hours notice not to report, but for whom no work at his regular job is available, will be offered at least four (4) hours employment in any available work at his regularj ob rate, or at the Company’s option, will be paid four (4) hours time at his regular rate of pay. This provision shall not apply if work is not available because of conditions over which the Company has no control, and the employee has not reported and is available for work at their scheduled starting time.
ARTICLE 10 - CALL-IN PAY
10.1	A seniority employee called back to do work outside his regular working hours to meet an emergency, shall be through when the emergency is over, and will be paid at his regular hourly rate or the appropriate overtime rate, but, in any event not less than four (4) hours pay at his regular hourly rate.
9
ARTICLE 11 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
11.1	In all cases of actual or contemplated absence an employee must secure a leave of absence from the Company.
11.2	The Company will authorize all reasonable requests for leave of absence, but may, at its discretion, request medical evidence to support a claim for leave of absence due to sickness or accident.
11.3	All applications for leaves of absence of more than two (2) weeks, must be made in writing, and in no case will a leave of absence be granted for an initial period of more than one (1) month, unless specific evidence of either a Doctor's certificate, orjury duty notice, can be produced to support a claim for a longer initial period. Such claim must be approved by the Company before an initial period of more than one (1) month will be granted.
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS
12.1	Seniority employees elected or appointed to do business for the Union shall be granted the necessary leave of absence not to exceed one (1) month, to attend such business, provided the employee gives at least two (2) weeks written notice to the Company. Such leave of absence will be limited to three (3) employees, no more than one (1) from any one department, (or two [2] from a department at the sole discretion of the Plant Manager), subject to the ability of the Company to maintain an efficient work force.
ARTICLE 13 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR POSITION WITH THE UNION
13.1 Seniority employees not to exceed two (2), (no more than one [1]from any one department), who are elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union or a full-time position to represent the U.F. and C.W. with the Canadian Labour Congress or one of its chartered bodies, shall upon (1) month's written notice be granted, leave of absence without pay, for a period not to exceed one (1) year. Renewal of such leave may be granted, provided application for renewal is in the hands of the Company at least one (1) month prior to the expiration of the leave of absence. An employee will continue to accumulate seniority during such leave of absence, except for the purpose of obtaining benefits (holidays, vacation, pension, group benefits, and etc.).
13.2
14.1
15.1
16.1
16.2
10
Such employees, within one (1) month's written notice of their desire to return to work with the Company, shall, subject to their seniority, providing they can perform the required work, be placed on the j ob previously held or one at an equal rate of pay. If the employee would not otherwise have retained his previous job and is not placed on a job carrying an equal rate of pay, he shall, subject to the seniority, be placed on ajob he can perform.
ARTICLE 14 - COURT DUTY
Seniority employees subpoenaed to perform duty or attend court or a coroner's inquest as a witness will be allowed the necessary time off to perform this service. The employee will receive the difference between the fee received from the Crown and his earnings, calculated at eight (8) hours pay at his regular hourly rate for each working day involved, excluding any and all traveling allowances and meal allowances that the Crown shall provide.
ARTICLE 15 - BEREAVEMENT ALLOWANCE
All employees with seniority shall be entitled to up to three (3) working days off with pay to include the day following the funeral, for the purpose of attending the funeral, in the event of death in the immediate family. (Immediate family shall mean: father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, husband, wife, brother, sister, son, daughter, grandparent, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepparent and step-child).
Employees with seniority who are unable to attend the funeral of a deceased family member shall be entitled to one (1) day off within three days of the death of the family member, provided that satisfactory proof of death can be supplied to the Company.
ARTICLE 16 - SAFETY
The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of employees during working hours. Where the nature of the task assigned to an employee requires the use of special safety equipment or clothing other than items of personal wear, such equipment or clothing shall be supplied by the Company and must be worn at all times by those employees so designated.
If a seniority employee is injured at work and is unable to complete the rest of his scheduled shift by reason of his injury, he will be paid his regular hourly rate for the balance of that day.
16.3
16.4
16.5
17.1
17.2
- 11 -
A copy of each Form 7 (W.C.B.) to be given to the Plant Joint Health and Safety Committee. The Company will advise the Union of any employee who is not working due to a W.C.B. claim.
The Company shall make a reasonable effort to provide suitable employment for any employee who is handicapped as a result of an accident or occupational disease suffered during the course of his employment with the Company.
The Company will comply with applicable Government Occupational Health and Safety Laws and Regulations, and the Joint Health and Safety Committee Charter.
ARTICLE 17 - HOURS OF WORK
This article provides the basis for the calculation of payment for overtime. Overtime shall only be paid to an employee after the following scheduled hours have been worked. For the purpose of computing hours of work for this article, holidays paid in accordance with Article 19 shall be considered as hours worked but there shall be no duplication or pyramiding of overtime payments.
During the packing season the Company may run production on a three-shift basis. When doing so, the third shift will commence their workweek on Monday night and finish their normal five- day workweek on the shift commencing Friday night and concluding on Saturday morning.
Each employee in Appendix “A” working the above noted shift schedule will be provided with a thirty (30) minute paid lunch break during their shift when working on a three shift basis only.
For the purpose of calculating overtime as per article 17.2 the following will apply to Appendix “A” employees working on the third shift:
“All hours worked on a Saturday” - this will not apply to those employees working on shift number three whose regular finish time would be Saturday morning unless they work more than the normal eight hours in which case they would be paid at the rate of time and one half their normal straight time hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of eight on the Saturday.
“All hours worked on Sunday” - This will apply to all three shifts.
12
17.3	Except as noted in clause 17.5, time and one-half (l%)the regular hourly rate shall be paid to seniority employees for:
(a)	all hours worked over eight (8) hours in any one day;
(b)	all hours worked over forty (40) hours in any one week;
(c)	all hours worked on Saturday and Sunday;
(d)	Double (2) time for all hours worked on Sundays except during the period that perishable produce is packed, where time and one-half (VA) will be paid.
17.4	When operating on a three shift basis as noted in 17.2, time and one half overtime for the third shift will only be paid on Saturdays on hours worked in excess of eight or in other words after the conclusion of the regular workweek.
17.5	Overtime immediately preceding or following on fi-om a normal shift will be allocated to the employee(s) working on that particular job subsequent to or previous to the overtime being required. Overtime requiring a separate shift will be allocated to the regular or seniority employee(s) who normally perform the work involved provided there is sufficient work to justify the overtime. Sufficient work shall be deemed to mean work of four (4) hours or more in duration. Subject to the foregoing, where a choice exists between those eligible for overtime, seniority within the classification shall be the determining factor. If no regular or seniority employee(s) within the classification are available, work will be allocated to the other qualified regular or seniority employees, by seniority.
17.6	An employee may be excused from working overtime provided there is a qualified employee with less seniority available.
ARTICLE 18-WAGES
18.1	Appendix "A" setting out the classification of jobs in the Seniority Employee Wage Schedule and the applicable rates constitute’ an integral part of this Agreement.
18.2	Within Appendix "A" and “B” when a seniority employee is temporarily transferred to a higher paying job for the convenience of the Company for one day or more, he shall receive the higher rate for all such hours worked and when returned to his normal job he shall then receive his normal hourly rate for that job.
18.3	Appendix "B" and “C” setting out the rates of pay for Maintenance Personnel and Stationary Engineers shall constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
- 13 -
ARTICLE 19 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
19.1	Eligible employees with seniority shall receive pay for:
The day before New Year's Day	Civic Holiday
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday VictoriaDay Canada Day
Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day
The day before Christmas Day
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
19.2
Employees must meet all of the following eligibility rules to receive holiday pay at the rate of eight (8) hours' pay at the regular hourly rate for each such holiday.
(a)	The employee must have obtained seniority in accordance with Article 6.
(b)	The employee must have worked his or her last scheduled day before, and his or her next scheduled day after the holiday and these days must fall within five (5) working days after the holiday, unless an employee was prevented from so working by reason of absence due to any of the following causes:
(1)	non-industrial sickness (such as sickness having commenced within thirty [30] calendar days prior to the date of observance of each such holiday) or absence evidenced by a certificate from a doctor (when required by the Company).
(2)	death in the immediate family of the employee; immediate family as defined in Article 15.1.
(3)	leaves of absence which are authorized in writing by the employee's supervisor. Where the absence is a matter of extreme urgency, such authorization may be given, during or after the absence.
(c)	Notwithstanding Article 19.2(b), Regular Status employees who complete their last scheduled shift prior to the holiday will receive pay for the holiday providing it falls within ten (10) working days of the last completed shift.
19.3	When an employee with seniority works on any of the above-named statutory holidays, he will receive time and one-half (1%) his regular hourly rate for all hours worked on such day, In addition, such employees will receive holiday pay (outlined in 19.2), except in the case of an employee who requests, in lieu of his holiday pay, an additional holiday with pay to be taken during the non-pack period.
14
ARTICLE 20 - VACATIONS
20.1	Regular employees shall be entitled to annual vacations with pay in accordance with the following schedule:
Consecutive Years of Service
on Employee's Anniversary	Length of	Rate of
Date of Employment	Vacation	Vacation Pay
(a) One (1) year	2 weeks	4%
(b) Five (5) years _	3 weeks	6%
(c) Twelve (12) years	4 weeks	8%
(d) Twenty (20) years	5 weeks	10%
(c) Twenty-six (26) years	6 weeks	12%
20.2	Vacation pay shall be calculated on the basis of the employee's gross earnings for the calendar year previous to the year in which the vacation is earned.
20.3	So as not to interfere with essential work or production, the time of year in which vacations may be taken shall be determined by the Company, and in so scheduling vacations, the Company agrees to allocate vacation times with seniority as a guiding factor, so long as it does not interfere with the normal operating manpower requirements of a particular department.
20.4	Employees must schedule two weeks as required by the Employment Standards Act. The Company recognizes that employees who are or may be on lay-off (minimum of 8 weeks in the previous calendar year) may prefer to be paid in lieu of taking time off. The Company is prepared to address this on an individual basis providing it does not interfere with the operation of the business. The above understanding is providing the Company is not in violation of any U.I.C. Regulation.
ARTICLE 21 - DISCRIMINATION
21.1	The Company agrees to abide by the Ontario Human Rights Code.
ARTICLE 22 - REST PERIODS
22.1	One (1) ten (10) minute rest period will be granted in each half ('A) shift as close as possible to the middle of each half (%) shift. Whenever possible, the Company will schedule rest periods as close as is practical to the middle of each half ('/2) shift, subject to the Company's ability to maintain, at all times optimum productivity and efficiency.
22.2
22.3
22.4
23.1
24.1
25.1
15
One (1) thirty (30) minute rest period will be granted to an employee who is scheduled to work in excess of two (2) hours of overtime in a day.
A five (5) minute wash-up period will be provided at the end of each half (V2)
Shift.
All employees are entitled to a lunch period of not more than thirty (30) minutes and will punch out and in accordingly. If however, due to an emergency, or breakdown, an employee who is on his lunch break is requested to return to the job, the employee shall receive pay for the entire lunch break period. The employee will continue to be paid when he takes time to eat after completion of emergency work. Payment for lunch period must be authorized and initialed by his Supervisor.
ARTICLE 23 - BULLETIN BOARDS
The Company agrees that the Union has the right to use the Company bulletin board or to erect one bulletin board in an appropriate place in the plant, if that is desired, to be used for the posting of notices of official union business which have been duly approved by the Plant Manager.
ARTICLE 24 - DISMISSED EMPLOYEES
An employee with seniority who is discharged for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly discharged, will be given an opportunity of meeting with his steward before he is required to leave the premises. If, because of the nature of the offence or situation it is necessary to require the immediate expulsion of an employee from the premises, then his steward will be notified as soon as possible by the Foreman concerned.
ARTICLE 25 - SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
(a)	A shift differential of twenty-five cents (350) per hour will be paid to all employees with seniority, for all hours worked on a shift starting after 3:30 p.m.
(b)	A shift differential of thirty cents (400) per hour will be paid to all employees with seniority, for all hours worked on a shift starting after 10:00 p.m.
26.1
26.2
26.3
26.4
16
(c)	A seniority employee who works the majority of his normal working hours after 3:30 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. respectively, shall be entitled to receive the shift premium outlined in 25.1(a) and (b).
(d)	Shift premiums and overtime payments shall not be pyramided or duplicated for the same hours under any of the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 26 - UNION SECURITY
All employees on completion of 85 days of continuous work with the Company, shall, as a condition of employment, authorize the Company to check off Union dues as designated by the Local Union.
UnitedFood and Commercial Workers International UnionAFL-CIO-CLC
and upon attaining seniority as defined in Article 6, all new employees shall become members of the Union and shall remain members of the Union in good standing as a condition of continued employment.
The total sum deducted together with a record of those fi-om whom deductions were made and of those from whom deductions were not made, the reason of absence (sickness, lay-off, leave of absence, or vacation) and amounts thereof will be forwarded to the Financial Secretary of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union AFL-CIO-CLC on or before the last day of the current month.
The Company will deduct the appropriate initiation fee.
No more than twice the regular monthly dues shall be deducted in any, one checkoff where the employee had insufficient pay to cover the preceding deduction of dues in order to ensure the regular payment of dues by employees.
Subsequent to formal notification fi-om the Union and upon the next normal deduction date, the Company will deduct from Union members, such special assessments as are uniformly charged against all union employees by the Union, in accordance with its constitution and by-laws.
In consideration of the deducting and forwarding of Union dues by the Company, the Union agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless against any claim or liability arising out of or resulting from the operation of this Article.
27.1
27.2
27.3
27.4
28.1
17
ARTICLE 27 - GENERAL
Upon receipt of purchase the Company will contribute eighty dollars ($80.00) per calendar year toward the purchase of Company-approved safety shoes for all seniority employees in Appendix “A”. The Company will contribute one hundred dollars ($100.00) per calendar year toward the purchase of Company-approved safety shoes for all employees in Appendix “B” and “C”.
The Company will contribute up to eighty ($80.00) per year on proof of purchase, towards the purchase of prescription safety glasses for those regular seniority employees required to wear safety glasses in the performance of their duties.
The Company will provide a clothing allowance of eighty dollars ($80.00) per year to employees in Appendix “B” & “C”. Effective March 01, 2000 the Company will provide eighty-five dollars ($85.00). Effective March 01, 2001 the Company willprovide ninety dollars ($90.00).
Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine.
ARTICLE 28 - TOOLS
An annual tool allowance of one hundred and sixty dollars ($160.00) will be paid, upon proof of purchase, to all maintenance personnel in Schedule “B” and the Chief Engineer, at the end of each calendar year if the employee has worked the full year. Employees with less than one (1) full year of service as a mechanic will receive a reduced amount proportionate to their partial year of service. The Company will also maintain its policy of replacement of employees’ tools broken during normal working operations. Effective March 01, 2001 an annual tool allowance of one hundred and seventy dollars ($170.00) will be paid.
18
ARTICLE 29 - UNION BUSINESS
29.1	Stewards may leave their work for the purpose of investigating or settling disputes without loss of pay, subject to the following conditions:
A steward must receive permission from his Foreman or next responsible person, before leaving his place of work indicating that the request is for union business and to which area of the plant he is going. Before entering another area of the plant, the steward shall advise the Foreman or next responsible person responsible for that area, of his presence there to investigate or settle a dispute.
(b)	The time spent by stewards for such purposes may be limited by the Company if the Company considers it to be excessive.
(c)	No payment will be made to a steward for the time spent by him for such purposes unless it is during his normal hours of work.
29.2	A representative of the Union shall be permitted reasonable time to interview an officer or steward of the local union during working hours upon application to the Plant Manager, Plant Superintendent or Production Foreman.
ARTICLE 30 - HEALTH & WELFARE
30.1	The Company agrees to pay on behalf of each regular employee who is on the active payroll and who has worked at least one full day (8 hours) during the month and who has completed the waiting period in Section 30.3, and met other necessary qualifications, 100% of the total premium cost for the month for individual and/or family coverage whichever is applicable for the following benefit plans:
(a)	Supplementary Major Medical
(b)	Dental Plan
(c)	Life Insurance
(d)	Disability Wage Plan
(e)	Vision Care
30.2	An employee is considered to have regular employment status when:
Employment is considered or expected to be on a (52) fifty-two weeks-a-yearbasis; or
30.3
31.1
32.1
19
(b) Employment s such that an employee completed thirty-six (36) weeks and one hundred and eighty (180) full or part days service with the Company in a twelve (12) month period.
Waiting periods that apply to Section 30.2 above are as follows:
(a)	Thirteen (13) weeks.
(b)	Thirty-six (36) weeks and one hundred and eighty days (1 80).
ARTICLE 31 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Technological change shall mean any major innovative change in equipment,
process or technology instituted in the St. Davids Plant operation.
(a)	Where possible, the Company will provide the Union with three (3) months Notice of Intention to introduce technological change which might result in displacement or reduction of seniority personnel.
(b)	Seniority employees becoming redundant due to technological change shall be eligible for retraining if such training is consistent with the employee's capabilities, to equip them for the operation of such new equipment or procedure, or to qualify for new positions within the bargaining unit. Such retraining will be provided by the Company without loss of pay to the affected employee(s).
(c)	In cases where retraining of seniority employees is not practical, or where other positions within the bargaining unit are not available, the employee(s) shall elect for termination of employment, or shall elect to be placed on the recall list.
ARTICLE 32 - NOTICE OF TERMINATION AND TERMINATION ALLOWANCE
Any full time employee with six (6) months of service or more, whose employment is terminated by the Company as a direct result of closing the plant shall receive severance pay as follows:
(a)	with continuous service of six (6) months to two (2) years - one (1) week's Pay-
(b)	an additional one (1) week for every year thereafter.
-20-
32.2	A week’s pay consists of forty (40) hours at the employee’s straight time hourly rate.
32.3	Any employee who accepts severance pay shall forfeit all seniority rights.
32.4	For the purposes of this Article, continuous service shall be deemed broken when an employee has quit or been terminated by the Company. The employee will not receive credit for any past service if rehired.
ARTICLE 33 - CONSULTATION
33.1	On the request of either the Company or the Union, the parties shall meet at least once every two (2) months until this agreement is terminated, for the purpose of discussing issues relating to the workplace which affect the parties or any employee bound by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 34 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
34.1	This Agreement shall become effective as of the second day of March, 1999 and shall remain in effect up to and including the first day of March, 2002, and shall automatically renew itself from year to year thereafter, unless written notice of the desire to terminate the Agreement or to amend any portion of any of the terms thereof is given by either party to the other at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the Agreement.
21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this agreement on the	i ^day of ,	______________,1999.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
-22-
APPENDIX "A"
Class Joh Title
March 2,1999 March 2, 2000
6	Warehouse Group Leader
5	Line Group Leader
Sanitation Group Leader
4	Shipper/Receiver _
Label Line Lead Hand
18.73
18.12
17.70
19.03
18.42
18.00
3	Lift Truck Operator	16.59	16.89
Syrup Maker Head Checker Seam Tester Quality Control
2	Process Equipment Cleaner	16.04	16.34
Can Room Attendant Greaser
Lye Unit Operator
Cook Room Attendant
Raw Produce inspector Line Checker
Warehouse Quality Control Pyramid Operator Weigh Scale Attendant Label Machine Attendant Empty Can Depalletizer Operator
1	Label Machine Attendant	15.30	15.60
Case Piler
Raw Produce Dumper Can Opener Operator Seamer Operator Janitor Pallet Tally Palletizer Operator Bowl Filler Attendants
March 2. 2001
19.33
18.72
18.30
17.19
16.64
15.90
23
APPENDIX “A “ (coni'd)
Unclassified	Job Title	March 2.1999	March 2, 2000
	Sorter	$15.20	$15.50
	Packer		
	Topper		
Can Feeder Caser Operator Trimmer Check Weigher Pear Machine Attendant Label Inspector Filper Attendant Production Worker
March 2, 2001
$15.80
-24-
APPENDIX "B"
Class Job Title
March 2,1999
1(a)
1(b)
2
3
Electrical Group Leader	$22.09
Maintenance Group Leader	$21.73
Cold Storage Operator	
Electrician “A”	$20.68
Industrial Mechanic (Millwright)	$20.32
March 2, 2000
$22.59
$22.23
$21.18
$20.82
March 2, 2001
$23.09
$22.73
$21.68
$21.32
Effective June 16, 1997 - Any employee covered by Appendix “B” who does not hold an Industrial Millwright Mechanics or Electricians Certificate of Qualification as per the Tradesmen's Qualification Act - Province of Ontario will be paid $1.00 per hour less than the applicable rate, and effective March 2, 1998 will be paid $2.00 less per hour than the applicable rate.
APPENDIX "C"
Job Title	March 2,1999
Chi ef Engineer	$21.15
2nd Class Stationery Engineer	$20.42
$19.62
March 2, 2000
$21.65
$20.92
$20.12
March 2. 2001
$22.15
$21.42
$20.62
3rd Class Stationery Engineer
-25-
APPENDIX "D "
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
It is agreed that the matters covered in this Appendix "D” will be inoperative during any period that the terms and conditions contained in the current Collective Agreement remain in effect.
1.	Effective March 2, 1981, all seniority employees will be provided with a Cost cf Living Allowance (COLA) on the following basis.
During the term of the Collective Agreement from March 2, 1981 to March 1, 1983.
2.	The COLA will be determined in accordance with changes in the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1971 = 100), hereafter referred to as the CPI.
3.	The January 1981 CPI published in February, 1981 will be used as the Base Index.
4.	The CPI's for the months of
February, March, April May, June July August, September, October November, December, January, respectively will be averaged compared to the Base Index and a sum obtained equal to one cent (-010) per hour for each point four (.4) increase in the CPI above the Base Index shall be payable for the months of
March, April May June, July, August September, October, November December, January, February
The above notwithstanding, it is understood that the Cost of living Allowance will not be paid on hours worked, March 2, 1981 to May 21, 1981.
5.	Payment of the COLA shall be made at the end of each quarterly period (during the month following the quarterly period) by separate cheque to each seniority employee.
6.	COLA is a premium payment for all hours actually worked and for all hours paid as statutory holidays, bereavement leave and jury duty.
7.	COLA will be included in the calculation of the following calendar year's vacation pay.
8.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, will be made due to any revision that may later be made in the published figures for the CPI on the basis of which the COLA has been determined.
26
APPENDIX “E”
SEASONAL - VACATION PAY
The Company agrees to give all seasonal employees with pro-rated service of five (5) years or more six percent (6%) of their weekl;y earnings as vacation pay. Pro-rated service shall be calculated by using years of service starting with the employee’s recognized seniority date, multiplied by the number of days worked, multiplied by eight (8) hours, divided by 1900 hours. '
Seasonal employees who become Regular employees will have their seniority adjusted on a pro-rated basis for the purpose of vacation entitlement.
August 31, 1999 Plant Chairperson
United Food & Commercial Workers
International Union
Local 617-P
St. Davids Plant
St. Davids, Ontario
Dear Chairperson:
During the recently completed contract negotiations the parties agreed to the following which will be in effect for the life of the agreement which expires on March 01,2002:
Three Shift Operation
The Company must maintain the right to schedule and assign work as defined in Article 2, however, if the Company finds it necessary to operate on a three-shift basis, the Company agrees to provide 8 hours of work, (In other words, no loss of pay due to a three shift operation).
O.H.I.P
The Company agrees that if the Provincial Government was to change the present payroll tax to an employee premium, then the Company would maintain the practice as defined in the agreement which expired on March 01, 1991.
Banking of Overtime
The Company and Union agree that all regular status employees will be allowed to bank a maximum of two (2) weeks of overtime which they may use to take additional time off. The banked hours may not be used between May O1 and November 30th of any year without the express consent of management. It is understood that employees may elect to use banked hours to cover absences due to illness at any time during the year.
Plant Transfers
The Company agrees to allow interested employees to apply in writing to local plant management for the purpose of expressing interest in j ob opportunities at other facilities. It is understood that application does not in any way guarantee employee(s) automatic access or preferential treatment to applied for positions and any and all hiring will be at the discretion of local area management.
Vacation
a)	The Company and Union agree to allow Regular Status employees who are laid-off a minimum of eight (8) weeks in the previous calendar year to have the option of receiving their vacation pay earned in the previous calendar year in a lump sum payment.
b)	Vacation entitlement will be scheduled by March 01 of each year and employees must book all but one (1) week of their vacation entitlement by March 01 of each year. Employees who so desire may retain a maximum of one (1) week of vacation entitlement to be used on a day to day basis or as a full week as business needs permit. Employees may schedule all of their entitlement by March 01 if they so choose.
a)	The Company agrees to allow seasonal seniority employees the opportunity to purchase maj or medical and/or dental benefits.
b)	The Company agrees to allow seasonal seniority employees the opportunity to participate in the Shares Program and the Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
Plant Manager, St. Davids FD/lp
cc:	S. Haggerty
S. Gallagher