Collective Agreement Between
Maple Leaf Foods INC. Brantford, Ontario
and
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.,
Local 175
Begins:
02/01/2003
Terminates:
03/30/2006
00367 (09)
Name.........
Address......
Phone........
Member ID....
Work Address,,.
Work Phone...
Union Steward,, Phone........
United Food& Commercial Workers UFCW Canada Locals 175 & 633 2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905)821-8329 www.ufcw175.com
-Revised Febmaiy2003
Dear Fellow Members:
Iwish to welcome newmembersto Locals175 & 633 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, and to thank long standing members for their continued support and assistance over the years.
I	hope you will all read this contract and become aware of your rights and privilegesas union members. It is an important document. It identifies and guarantees your income, benefits and job security while you work for your current employer. Like an insurance policy, a warranty fora newcar, orthedeed to your home, if you are not aware of the agreement you entered into, you may not benefit from it.
As a union member with a contract, you have the freedom to plan for the future. You will know what your income will be in advance. Your rights and benefits are written down and cannot be revoked, and your job security is a primary element. Non-union workers do not have this protection. Their wages and benefits may be cut at any time, as may their jobs.
Become familiar with your contract. If unsure about an item or if you think your concern is not covered, speak to your Union Steward. He or she is a co-worker trained by the Union to help you with concerns and grievances in the workplace. If the problem cannot be settled by the Steward, a full-time Union Representativecan be contacted at any lime to assist you.
In additionto the Stewards in the workplace and the Union Representativeswho support them, we also have a team of professionalswho provide support.
W should all be proud of our Unions achievements. We have proven many times that employers can treat their workers fairly and still run their business efficiently.
In the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, we are committed to job security in an ever changing social environment. Only your Union can be relied upon to protect your rights.
Your union offers you representation before the Workers Safety Insurance Board. If you are injured on the job, our trained staff will support you and help you in any way they can.
Non-Union workers are at the mercy of their employer. This is one reason our Local Union continues to grow.
Our organizing team works around the clock to help bring other workers into our union. If you know of someone who works in a non-union environment, do them a favour and give our organizers a call.
We also believe in the education of our members and their children. Lack of economic resources should not be a hindrance to further education. In this regard, the UFCW offers a number of scholarships at the local, national and international level. They are for your benefit as Union members.
In addition, your Union works to keep you up-to-date about legislation concerning your working rights.
Your Local Union represents some 50,000 members across Ontario. As we continue to grow, we have moved to keep up with the growth in areas of servicing and all-round members' support. included in this booklet is a list of Union representatives and other representatives there to support you, the member.
Only by all of us working together can we keep what we have gained over years of hard negotiations and obtain what is rightfully ours in the future. Our labour may be the only commodity we have to sell. Let us not sell it cheaply.
Please feel free to contact me at any time with questions or concerns about the Union. This is your Union. You put the 'U' in our Union.
In Solidarity,
Wayne Hanley, President,
UFCW CANADA Local 175,
As the elected officers of Local 175, it is our job to ensure the smooth running and day-to-day operations of your Local Union. V\fe represent some 50,000 members across Ontario, of whom some 25,000 are retail workers. Others work in a wide variety of units, including nursing homes, funeral homes, hotels, processing plants, and manufacturing plants. This requires versatility, knowledge and tireless effort. To accomplishthis job, we are supported by your Union Stewards, Union Representatives, Benefits Representatives, Staff lawyers and a Communications Representative. If we are not available or cannot answer a given question, we have the resources to find out. Remember, we are here to serve you.
UNITED FOODS COMMERCIAL WORKERS
The United Foodand CommercialWorkers is one of the largest and most respected unions. You are one of more than 230,000 members in Canada and 1,500,000 members in North America.
The UFCW is the result of a merger between two of the oldest and most respected unions in North America: the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America and the RetailClerks International Union. This mergentook place on June 6,1979. The UFCW represents workers in nearly all aspects of Canadian life which is mirrored in the makeup of Locals 175 & 633.
UFCW CANADA LOCALS 175 & 633
Your local union, with over 50,000 members, is the. largest UFCW local union, and the largest local union of any union in Canada.
This Local has the expertise, financial stability and resources to provide you, the member, with the best negotiating team, the best legalassistance, and the best all around service of any union in the country.
UFCW LOCALS 175 & 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD LOCAL 175 EXECUTIVE BOARD:
PRESIDENT Wfeyne Hanley, Oakville
SECRETARY-TREASURER Jim Andress, Guelph
RECORDER Betty Pardy, London
VICE-PRESIDENTS RIckAlaglerskl, Mississauga Phil Anderson, Peterborough Toni Pettttt, Hawkestone Mona Bailey, Omemee Bryan Bralthwalte, Chatham Georgina Broeckel, Arthur Fay Boucher, Thunder Bay Sam Caetano, Toronto Mall Davenport, Hamilton Bruce Dosman, Hanover William Foley, Burlington Roland Fortin, Kitchener David Fox, Napanee Steve Garland, Kitchener RudolfGwInner, Cambridge Joe Hand, Newcastle Jim Hastings, Mississauga Rick Hogue, Thorold
Jim Hough, Burlington Tim Kelly, Stratford Janice Klenot, Kitchener Jane Koran, Wasaga Beach Cliff Kostynluk, St, Catharines June Maruschak, Sarnia Nancy Melcore, Brampton Tony Morello, Angus Pat Newell, Port Hope Fltzroy Reid, Toronto Shott Saunders, Woodville Don Schmidt, Walkerton Dale Simon, Thunder Bay Andy Spruyt, Fonthlll JuneTowler, Bradford PatriciaTweedie, Niagara Falls Karen Vaughn, Plcton Coreena Zurkan, Kenora
LOCAL 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
PRESIDENT
Dan Bondy, Amherstburg
SECRETARY-TREASURER Roy Reed, Orillia
RECORDER
Neil Hotchkiss, Amherstburg
VICE-PRESIDENT: MaryLou Mallet, Arthur Peter Small, Oshawa
What You Get For Your Union Dues
. Higher than average wages and benefits. According to recent government statistics, unionized workers make, on average, 38% more in wages and benefits than non-union	i
workers in the same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding investment in your future.
. Job Security. Your Union will not let you befired or disciplined without just cause, and it is up to management to prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens of thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitration expenses just to protect your rights. If you are unjustly discharged, your Union will spare no expense in getting you back to work. Does a non-unionworker have that kind of security?
. Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights are vitally important to your Union. Did you deserve a promotion and not get it? Are non-bargaining unit people doing your work? Were your bumping rights ignored? Is your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairlydisciplinedfor a very minor mistake? The Grievance Procedure allows the Union to go to bat for you. In a non-union workplace you have no rights except what management chooses to allow you.
•	Problems with the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act or Employment lnsurance?The Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representing you to government agencies. These services are free to you, should you everneedthem. Non-union workers are usually in the dark and out in the cold in these matters. They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help.
•	Pensions, Dental Insurance, Sick Pay, Disability Insurance, etc. Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family. Should they be unable to work because of sickness or accident, would they trade their insurance protection for yourg? You betfhey would!
Add upwhat you paid in UnionDues last year {don’t forget that they are tax-deductible). Compare that amount with what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes, beer, movies, cable television r “impulse” gifts.
WHAT IS A UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected front-line representative of the United Food and CommercialWOrkers. It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rights and to represent you to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A
Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Union Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility. Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Steward to look into a violation of your contract rights unless you are willing to file a grievance if necessary. Their time is as important as yours. Your Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement, but only if you are willing to see it through.
Despite the trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you're not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Union Representatives might make a good Union Steward.
I
UNION SCHOLARSHIPS, TRAINING AND EDUCATION There are a number of scholarships available for UFCW Canada Locals 175 & 633 members, and their children, who are pursuing a Post Secondary education. To find out more about the scholarship program or various courses listed below, please contact the Locals 175 & 633 Training Centre, at (905) 564-2500 or 1-800728-8902 or visit the web site: www.ufcw175.com.
Locals 175 & 633 are also aware of the need for training and education in the workplace resulting from technological change, corporate restructuring and the abandonment by governments of the training and education of the workforce.
To address that need Locals 175 & 633 offer annual regional stewards training seminars. These seminars are held separate from courses which are available to members at the Locals Training and Education Centre in Mississauga. On a weekly basis the Union offers courses which allowour members to further their formal education and increase their ability and skill level in areas ranging from computer foundations, literacy and math upgrading to steward training and workplace advocacy.
In addition, twice a year the Locals offer stewards and members scholarship programs which are conducted at the Locals Training and Education Centre in Mississauga.
Thirty scholarships are awarded annually to stewards province wide to attend a weeklong in-depth training and education seminar. The theme of the week is “Labour's History: Past, Present and Future” and ensures that our stewards are well-informed and educated to be representatives of our Union in their workplaces. Stewards also receive nine hours of hands on computer training during the weeklong course.
Thirty members‘ scholarships are also awarded annually to provide members throughout the province with an opportunityto attend a weeklong computer training course. The course is a basic computer course which will give members an understanding of how a computer works and an introduction to using a computer.
With each of these scholarship programs the Locals will cover the cost of the course and materials as well as the members’ wages, per diems, accommodation and transportationcosts.
WORKPLACE SAFETY AND INSURANCE ACT ‘W.S.I.A" Foimeriy
WORKERS COMPENSATION ACT
The Workplace Safety and Insurance Act, “W.S.IA", formerly, Workers CompensationAct or"W.C,B.” is an insurance program to protect workers against loss of income due to job-related disabilities. Here are answers to the most commonly asked questions:
1.	HOW DOES THE WORKER REPORT AN ACCIDENT?
If an accident occurs at work, section 22 (1) of The Act requires a worker to file a claim as soon as possibleafter the accident that gives rise lo the claim, but in no case shall he or she file a claim more than six months after the accident or, in the case of an occupational disease, after the worker learns that he or she suffers from the disease.
2.	IS THERE AN EXTENSION OF TIME?
The Board may permit a claim to be filed after the six month period expires if, in the opinion of the Board it is just to do so.
3.	WHAT FORMS MUST BE COMPLETED TO RECEIVE BENEFITS?
Section 22 (4)... A claim must be on a form approved by the Board and must be accompanied by such information and documentsasthe Board may require.
4.	WHAT CONSENT OF DISCLOSURE IS REQUIRED?
Section 22 (5)... When filing a claim, a worker must consent to the disclosure to his or her employer of information provided by a health professionalunder subsection 37(e) concerning the worker's functional abilities. The disclosure is for the sole purpose of facilitating the worker's return to work.
5.	FAILURE TO FILE?
Section 22 (6)... If the claimant does not file the claim with the Board in accordance with this section or does not give the consent required by sub-section (5) no benefits shall be provided under the insurance plan unless the Board, in its opinion, decides that it is just to do so.
6.	NOTICE TO EMPLOYER?
Section 22(7)... The claimant shall give a copy of his or her claim to the worker's employer at the time the claim is given to the board.
7.	NOTICE OF MATERIAL CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES?
Section 23 (3)... A person receiving .benefits under the insurance
plan or who may be entitled to do so shall notify the Board of a material change in circumstances in connection with the entitlement within 10 days after the materialchange occurs.
8.	WAGES FOR DAY OF ACCIDENT?
Section 24 (I)... The employer shall pay a worker who is entitled to benefits under the insurance plan his or her wages and employment benefits for the day of the injury as if the accident had not occured.
9.	EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS?
Section 25 (1)... Throughoutthe first year after a worker is injured, the employer shall make contributions for employment benefits in respect to the worker when the worker is absent from work because of the injury. However, the contributions are required only if:
(a)	the employer was making contributionsfor employment benefits in respect to the worker wien the injury occured
and
(b)	the worker continues to pay his or her contributions if any, for the employment benefits while the worker is absent from work.
10.	DUTY TO CO-OPERATE IN RETURN TO WORK?
Section 40 (l.)The employer of an injuredworker shall co-operate in the early and safe return I o work of the worker by:
(a)	contactingthe worker as soon as possible after the injury occurs and maintaining communication throughout the period of the worker's recovery and impairment
(b)	attempting to provide suitable employment that is available and consistent with the worker's functional abilities and that, when possible, restoresthe worker's pre-injury earnings
(c)	giving the Board such information as the Board may request con-cerningthe worker's return to work and
(d)	doing such other things as may be prescribed.
WORKERS DUTY?
Section40 (2)... The worker shall co-operatein his or her early and safe return lo work by:
(a)	contacting his or her employer as soon as possible after the injury occurs and maintaining communication throughoutthe period of the worker's recovery and impairment
(b)	assistingtheemployer, as may be required or requested, to identify suitable employment that is available and consistent with the
worker's functional abilities and that, when possible, restores his or her pre-injury earnings
(c)	giving the Board such informationas the Board may request concerning the worker's return to work and {d) doing such other things as may be prescribed.
11.	NOTICE OF DISPUTE?
Section 40 (6)... The employeror the worker shall notify the Board of any difficulty or dispute concerning their co-operation with each other in the worker's early and safe return to work.
12.	OBLIGATION TO RE-EMPLOY?
Section 41 (1)... The employerof a workerwho has been unableto work as a result of an Injury and who, on the date of the injury, had been employed continuously for at least one year, by he employer shall offerto re-employ the worker in accordance with this section.
Section 41 (4) When the worker is medically able to perform the essential duties of his or her pre-injury employment, the employer shall:
(a)	offer to re-employ the worker in the position that the worker held on the date of injury, or
(b)	offer to provide the worker with alternative employment of a nature and at earnings comparable to the workers employment on the date of injury
TIME LIMITS
1	A 30 day lime limit on appealing a Board decision about return to work or a labour market re-entry plan made on or after January 1, 1998,
2	A six month time limit on appealing any other Board decision made cn or after January 1,1998,
3	A six month time limit on filing a claim.
The changes to the new act are significant and have reduced or limited entitlement for injured workers. However, you should never let managementtalk you out of filing a claim, it is your right, I n fact it is a violation for an employerto refuse to submit a claim.
Your local union has a benefit department that will answer any questions you may have in regard to filing or appealing a W.S.I.B, claim. Contact your unionoffice.
Maternity Benefits:	,
If your child is born or adopted after December31st, 2001. You must have worked and paid El premiums for at least 600 hours in the last 52 weeks, or since the beginning of your last El claim. You can start collecting maternity benefits up to 8 weeks before you are scheduled to give birth. However, benefitscannot be received later than 17 weeks after the baby is due or born, unless the infant is confined to a hospital.
Parental Benefits:	'
Parental benefits can be collected for up to 35 weeks by both naturaland adoptive parents while they are caring for a newborn or adopted child. Under the new rules a combination of maternity (biological mothers only), parental and sickness benefits can be received up to a combined maximum of 50 weeks in a 52 week period.
Benefits are paid at 55% of your average insured earnings up to a maximumof $413 perweek.
Discharge or Quit:
No regular benefits are paid to those workers who quit a job without just cause or who are fired for misconduct. You may appeal a disqualification. Contact your Union if you need assistance with your appeal.
How to Calculate the Benefit Amount?
The benefit rate is based on your average insured earnings in the last 26 weeks of work. Your insured earnings will be averaged over a number of weeks known as a divisor. The divisor is the greater of:
(a)	the number of weeks of insured earnings in the last 26 week period; or
(b)	the number of weeks specified in the divisor table.
Ifyou worked for only the minimum number of weeks required to qualify, or for one week longerthan that, then the minimum divisor applies to you.
intensity Rule:
Any week of regular benefits collected after June 30, 1996 could affect your benefit rate on future claims. Weeks of benefits claimed will stay on your claim history for five (5) years. Working while on a claim can help you to reduce the number of weeks on your claim history. Your claim history is maintainedfor five years.
Work Credits:
Claimants who work while they receive regular benefits and earn enough to reduce their Elcheques will be able to earn work credits to be applied against the intensity rule. The total amount they save the El system by working while on a claim will be converted into weeks of unpaid benefits. Those weeks will then be credited against the application of the intensity rule for the next claim in the next five years.
Sick Benefits:
Sick benefits are paidfor upto 15 weeks, ifyou have 600 hours of insurable employment in the last 52 weeks or since the start of your last claim. If you get sick after your employment was inter-ruptedfor another reason, such as temporary layoff, you may be eligible with less than 600 hours. Medical reports are necessary.
EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
(formerly UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE)
On June 30, 1996 the Employment InsuranceAct came into effect. Additional changes became effective January 1,1997 and December 31st 2000. The new system reflects a fundamental restructuring of the old Unemploymentlnsurance System.
“Where to Apply?”
Apply at the local Human Resource Centre of Canada. Check the telephone directory under Human Resources Development Canada or Canada EmploymentCentrefor the office nearest you.
Regular Benefits:
You can receive regular benefits if you lost your job and you can't find work, provided that you meet these requirements:
. you have paid into the El account;
•	you have worked the required minimum number of hours in the last 52 weeks; the number of hours of work needed, may range from 420-700 hours depending on the unemployment rate in your region.
•	there are two exceptions: if this is your first job ever, or your first job after coming back into the workforce after an absence of two years or more, you will need a minimum of 910 hours of work to qualify regardless of the local unemployment rate.
In most cases you will receive 55% of your insured earnings to a maximumof $413 perweek. Claimantswho are in a low income family (an income of less than $25,921) with children and receive the Child Tax Benefit will receive a Family Supplement based on your Child Tax Benefit. Your benefit rate can be increased to a maximum of 65% but not greater than the maximum benefit rate of $413 (2001).
Claimants can collect benefits between 14 and 45 weeks depending on the unemployment rate in their region, and the number of hours they have worked in the last 52 weeks.
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY ACT Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management and workers live up to their responsibilities under Ontario's Occupational Health and Safety Act. Here is a quick guide to the Act. For details, refer to the Act itself, which is found in the small green book which must be posted in every workplace. Employer’s Duties
Among other things, the employer must:
•	Provide information, instruction and training so that the employee can work in a safe manner.
. Acquaint the worker with any workplace hazard.
. Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
. Cooperate with and assist the health and safety committee and representative.
. Tate every precaution reasonable for the protection of the worker. Supervisor’s Duties
in stores, the Supervisor is normally the Store Manager. He must: . Ensure that the worker works in a safe manner and uses all the equipment, protective devices or clothing that is required.
•	Advise a worker of any potential or actual danger to health and safety.
•	Provide written safety instructions, where required.
•	Be familiar with the Act and regulations.
Note: Department Heads in the bargaining unit must also ensure that workers work in a safe manner, as above, but they cannot discipline workers who refuse, for example, to wear safety equipment. if a meat manager is unable to convince a fellow worker to wear a mesh apron when he is required to do so, he should simply report the situation to the Store Manager.
Workers’ Obligations
•	Use all safety equipment and wear all protective clothing required by the employer.
•	Report any potentially unsafe condition or defect in safety equipment to your Supervisor.
•	Obey the Health and Safely law and all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulations to your Supervisor.
Workers may not:
•	Remove or turn off any safety device.
. Use any equipment or work in a manner which may endanger yourself or another worker.
•	Engage in horseplay of any kind.
The Right to Refuse Unsafe Work
If you encounter an unsafe condition at work, your first obligation is to report it to your Supervisor. Once you have done that, you may refuse to work at a job or task where you have reason to believe that:
. Any machine or equipment you are supposed to use is likely to endanger yourself or another worker, or . The condition of the workplace itself is hazardous.
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal. He must then investigate the matter in your presence and that of a health and safety representative of the workers (normally the Steward or a member of the Health & Safety Committee). If the Supervisor orders you back to work and you are still not satisfied that the job is safe, you may continue to refuse to work, provided you have reasonable grounds to believe the condition still constitutes a hazard.
At this point, the Inspectorfrom the Ministry of labour must be called in. While you are waiting for him, the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he is informedthat the job was refused and the reasonsfor the refusal. This second worker also has the same right to refuse. The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable alternative work, subject to the CollectiveAgreement.
The decision of the Inspector is final. Although his order may be appealed, you must return to the job if he so orders, pending the outcome of such appeal.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE # NAME
PAGE
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION
ARTICLE 2 OBJECTS
ARTICLE 3 BARGAINING UNIT
ARTICLE 4 UNION DUES
ARTICLES MAINTENANCEOF MEMBERSHIP
ARTICLE 6 MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE 7 SETTLEMENT OF COMPLAINTSAND GRIEVANCES ARTICLE a WAGES
ARTICLE 9 NIGHT AND WEEK-END PREMIUMS
ARTICLE 10 HOURS Of WORK ANO OVERTIME
ARTICLE 11 PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
ARTICLE 12 REST PERIODS
ARTICLE 13 SENIORITY
ARTICLE U JOS POSTING
ARTICLE 15 VGATENS
ARTICLE 16 SAFETY AND HEALTH
ARTICLE 17 SICK PAY, BENERTSAND PENSIONPLANS
ARTICLE 18 APPEARANCE IN COURT
ARTICLE 19 BEREAVEMENT PAY
ARTICLE 20 RENEWAL OF LICENSES
ARTICLE 21 CLOTHING
ARTICLE 22 GOVERNMENTREGUlATlONS
ARTICLE 23 UNION NOTICES
ARTICLE 24 PLANT CLOSING
ARTICLE 25 OURATION OF AGREEMENT
APPENDIX “C"
Office Janitor APPENDIX “D"
Job Category Classification System Schedule of Wags Categories New Mires After July 22,2000 Classifying New or Changes Jobs
2
2
3
3
3
7
7
8 10 11 12 16
17
18 18 20 21 21 21 22 22
23
24 26 26 26 20 27 29 31
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
#1	Re: Clothing Supplies
#2	Re: Recall Rights
#3	Re: Past Practice - Articles 1,7,10.07,18
#4	Re: Overtime
#5	Re: Part-time Employees
#6	Re: Vacation Policy
#7	Re: Booklet Printing
#8	Re: UFCW Leukemia Fund
#9	Re: Production Levels
#10	Re: Mechanical Category 3 - Higher Rates
33
34
35
36 38 40
42
43
44
45
THIS AGREEMENT BETWEEN
Maple LoafFoeds Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinafter called The Company)
AND
United Food andeommerelal Workers International Union, affiliatedwith the AFL, CIO and the Canadian Labour Congress, (CLC), Local 175 (Hereinafter called We Union")
Recognizing thatthewelfareoftheCompanyandthatoflts employeesdependa upon the welfare ofthe business as a whole, and recognizing further that e relationship for goodwill and mutual respect between employers and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance and Increase of that welfare, the parties to this contract Join together in the following Agreement:
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the union as the exclusive bargaining agent for the employees of Its Brantford plantand Brantford Airport Plants.
The Company will not bargain collectively during the term of this Agreementwith any other labourorganlzation affecting these employeea.
ARTICLE 2 OBJECTS
2.01	Tha purposed" this Agreement isto maintaina harmonious relationshipbatween the Company and Its employees; to define more clearly hours ofwork. wages and conditions of employment to pnovidean amicable method of settling differences or grievances which may from time to time arise; to promote mutuallnterests ofthe Company and It employees; aid lo provide for the operation for the Company’s plants under methods which will serve the interestsof producers and consumersas well as those ofthe Company and Its employees.
Since the maintenance for a good standard of wages and working conditions depends upon sound and efficient operationof the business, the Unionagreesto co-operate with the company at all times,
a)	To maintain and Improve quality of products,
b)	To avoid wasteof products, materials ortime.
2
To assist in keepingthe Company’spremisesclean and tidy. To conserve and protect machinery and equipment.
it is recognized by this Agreementto be the responsibility of the Company and of Its employeesto co-operate fully, individually and collectively,/orthe promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
ARTICLE 3 BARGAINING UNIT
3.01	The bargaining unit Is composed of all employees below the rankof foreperson in the employ of the Company as hereunderdeflned:
The t e n ‘Employees’ as used In this Agreement shall be considered to Include production employees, trades pereons. maintenance employees, stationary engineers, plant employees engaged In shipping, receiving and plant Janitorial services belowthe rank of foreperson, except es set out below. The exceptions are; forepersons, assistant forepersons, security staff, plant clerical staff, nurses, scientific workers employed by the laboratory staff and confidential employees a8 listed in Appendix C,
3,03 Part-time workers, that Is, employee8 regularly employed for twenty-four hours weekly orless, and students as defined In Article 13, are eligible for membership in the Union, but are not entitled to privileges In Articles 10, 11 and 13 of this Agreement
ARTICLE 4 UNION DUES
4.01	TheCompanyagreestodeductweeklyform each employee’s payduringthet e n of this Agreement and In tha case of new employees beginning with the first weekly check-off after they have completed one working day In the calendar year, the regular weekly Union dues, and will transmit the total rum of the amounts so deducted to the Financial Secretary of the Local Uniononorbefore the fifteenth day of each month. The Company shall inform new employeesof the terms of this Article at the time they are hired. Twice the regularweekly Union dues shall be deducted In any one check-off where the employee did not have dues deducted In thecheckofflmmediately preceding due to absenceon vacation. Within six (6) months from the date of rattfleatlon, the dues and Initiation reportwlll be provided In the form of email (ramltQufcw170.com) or on computer diskette ss well as a hard copy of tho duet report being attached to the remittance cheque.
3
4.02	The amount of weekly dues to be deducted from employees maybe increased by specialassessment, providedsuch assessments am levied in accordance with the Constitution and By-laws of the Local 175.
4.03	The Company agree8 that upon receipt of written authorization In the form of a signed Union Membership Card, it will deductfrom the wages of employees joining the Union afterthe ratification of this Agreement, the initiation fee due from him/her to the Local Union on the first payday of the following calendar month and shall remit such deducted amounts to the FinancialSecretaiyofthe Local Union on or before thefrat day of calendarmonth next following.
ARTICLE 5 MAINTENANCEOF MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Company agreeethatit shall bea condition of employment that nay employee who, at the date of this Agreement, was a member of the Unionin good standing, or who becomes a member after that date, shall maintain such membership during thetermof this Agreement. Employees shall bedeemed members of the Union in good standing so long as they continue to pay their weekly Union dues,
5.02	No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his/her application for membership or for reinstatement as a member in the Union except as may be provided In the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union; and no coercion or Intimidation of any kind shay be practised to compel or Influence an employeeto join the Union nor shall any discrimination cf any kind whatever be practised or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union.
ARTICLES MANAGEMENT
6.01	Subject onlyto the provisions of this Agreement, the management and operation of the business, end the employment, direction, promotion, transfer, layoff, and suspension, discharge, or other discipline </employees for just cause, shall be vested solely Inthe Managementofthe Company.
ARTICLE 7 SETTLEMENT OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES
7.01	Purpose. Both Ihe Company and the Union emphasize the desirability of a satisfactorygrlevance procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle as many grievances as possible promptly. It Is agreed that consultation at any step in the following procedurewlll take place quietly andspeedlly so that any possible cause of friction may be reduced to a minimum.
4
7.02	Stewards. The Union agrees to appoint or elect and the Company b recognize stewards, who shall be regular employees of the Company, to deal with matters affecting employees in departments or groups of departments In the Company's plants. A list ofthese stewards shall be supplied tothe Company. The Company shall be advised Immediatelyby the Union in writing of any change in this list A list of the namesofthe members of supervision shall be supplied to the Union and the company shall advise the Union Immediately Inwritins of any permanent change in this list.
7.03	Grievance Committee. The Union also agrees to appoint or eleot a Grievance Committee, not to exceed three, all regularemployees of the Company, to dealwith questionswhichmaynotbedsckled Inthel*, or 2* steps described A Section 4 below, The Grievance Committee shall include the Chief Steward of the Local Union. A list of Grievance Committee membersshall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised Immediately Inwriting of any change hthisliat.
Subseotion 3 (a). If an employee so desires, he/she may be accompanied by his/her stewardor chairperson when discipline ts being given to that employee.
7.04	Grievance Steps: Alleged grievances shall be dealt with progressively In tie following manner
1* Step:	Betweenthe aggrieved employee, or the Steward or both, and the
foreperson of the department which the employee works. If the complaint affects the rate of pay of an employes, the Department Stewards hall be Informed.
21* Step:	Between the Steward and/or Chief Steward and/or the Unit
Chairperson and the Operations Manager or his/her designated representative and other members of his/her staff as required by the Company. If requested, complaints presented at this stage shall be In writing, ifthey allegevlolation of the Agreement, they shell setout dearly the respects in which tho Agreement has been violated.
3rtStep:	BetweentheGrievancecommttteeandthePlantManagement, A full-
time representative of the Union may be called In tf desired by either party, Complaints presented et this stage shall be In writing.
The aggrieved employee or employees may be present during the three above steps, If so desired.
Grievance Committee Meetings. Meetingsof the Grievance Committee shall be held at times suitable to theoperationofthebusiness, by arrangement betweenthe PlantManagerandtheUnlt Chairperson of the LocalUnlon, The Company will pay theaggrievedemployee concerned and the members oftheGrievanceCommittee
at their applicable rater for time spent at meetingsof the Grievance Committeewith management representatives.
7.05	Arbitration, Ifsetttement is not reached by the above procedure, the matter in dispute shall be referred by the Union or by the Company to an Arbitration Committee of three members, one to be appointed by the Union, and one by the Company, and e third, who shall a d as Chairperson, b be mutually agreed upon bytheothertwo. Uponrecelptofthenameofthememberappolnted bytheparty submitting the grievance to arbitration, the other party shall name its nominee. Ifit falls to do to within too weeks, Its nominee wifi be appointed by tho Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario upon request by the party submitting the grievance to arbitration. If agreementcannotbe reached within oneweekaatothe appointment of a third member, he/5he ehall be appointed bythe Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario.
Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph, the parties mayagreetotheappointment of a single Arbitrator with the same powers as an Arbitration Committee. In such oases, theparty referring the grievance to arbitration shall, Instead of submitting the name of Its nominee, submit the name of the Arbitrator H wishes to suggesttothe other patty, if agreement cannot be Feached on the appointment of a single Arbitrator within 6 working days, an Arbitration Committee will be appointed in accordance with the provisions of the above paragraphexceptthatin the case of a grievancesubmitted underArttcte 7.9 the Union will name Its nomineewfthlri five working days followingthe period provided for appointmentof a single Arbitrator,
The time limits set out above may be extended by mutual consent between the parties,
A decision of a majority of the Arbitration Committee shall be deemed to be a decision of the Committee. In reaching Ife decision, the Committee or the single Arbitrator shall be governed bythe provision of this Agreement and such decision shall be Anal and binding upon all parties concerned.
The Company and the union requeetthat the Arbitration Committeemeet within one month following appointments possible and to rendera decisionwithin one month Ofthat meeting If possible.
The cost of the Chairperson shall be shared equally by the parties. Each party shall payb own costa Including thoaeofits nominee, representatives and witnesses,
7.06	Actions of Officials. If either the Company or the union alleges violation of the Agreementthroughaction of the officials of either, the complaint maybedealtwith through the Grievance Procedure established by this Article, beginning with theg™1 Step, and discussions between the Company and the Union apart forthe Grievance Procedureshall not preclude resort to tte Grievance Procedure later, Ifsodeslred,
6
7.07	V\fege Grievance. Wien a grievancewhich affectsthe rete of pay of an employee is settled end es a result of the settlement the employee receives an Increase in his/her rate, the Increase shall be paid retroactively to the date on which the complaint was first submitted to the Company in writing. A request for wage increase, if not answered within 72 hours, may be treated as a grievance and handled progressively as set forth In Section 4 of this Article.
7.08	Dismissal. If an employee Is dismissed for any reason whatsoever and feels that he/she has been unjustly dealt with, he/she shall promptly notify a memberofthe Grievance Committeewho shall, if a grievance Is to filed, notify the Operations Manager Inwrttlng within five (5) working days of receipt of noticeof dismissal by the aggrieved employee staling the grounds of objection to the dismissal. The dismissal shall then constitute a grievanceand shall be dealt with according to the grievance procedure as set out above beginning with the sy4step of Sectfon4of this W e . If subsequently it Is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he/shs shall be reinstated in his/her former position and shall be compensated for all time lost at his/her regular rate of pay. or granted such lesser compensation as maybe deemed fair In the circumstances or by unanimous decision of an Arbitration Board. To ensure prompt handling of any such grievance, except by mutual agreementbetweenthe Company and the Union, not more than five (6) working days shall be allowed for consideration undereachsuccssslve step untilthe matter Is brought loerbttrabon.
The company will notify the Unit Chairperson or Chief Steward or his/her designated
representative within one working'day if an employee with seniority Is dismissed or suspended. Where notification of dismissal tr suspension isnotgivenwithinone working day, and If a grievanceis to be filed, It may be submitted within three (3) workingdeys ofthe receipt of the notice by the Unit Chairpersonor Chief Steward.
7.08	Continue Work During Grievance Investigation. If an employee feels he/she Is suffering a grievance, he/she should reportthe complaint at once Inthe manner described In Section 4 above. Pending He Investigation and settlement, he/she should meanwhiletiy faithfully to perform the duties assigned to him/her by his/her foreperson or by any supervisory officer ofthe company.
7.10	Discussion Between Steward and Foreperson, A Union Steward, or In his/her absencethe Chief Steward, may discuss with the foreperson of hl/her department, diredmatters which may affedthe welfare of his/her departmentas e whole, even though at the time same maynot continue a grievance. Similar discussion may take place between the Untt Chairperson or Chief Steward and the Operations Manger or his/her designated representative
7.11	Slowdowns and Interruptions of production. It is agreed that the Union and Its members, individually and collectively, will not, during the term of this Agreement.
7
cause, permit or lake part In any slowdown or other curtailment or restriction of productionor interference with work in oraboutthe Company's plants or premises,
7.12	Strikes and Lookouts. It Is agreod that there shall be no strike by or lockoutof employees affected by this Agreementduring the life of this Agreement cr during negotiations for Its renewal.
7.13	Labour/Manegsment Committee. It is agreed that two Bargaining Unit members elected by the Union and two Managementmemberswill make up this committee. Unless otherwise agreed, this committee will meet every two months to discuss policies, proceduresand matters of mutualconoem.
ARTICLES WAGES
8.01	Regular, probationary, part-time and student employeee shall be paid In accordance with the provisions setoutinAppendix D, Job Category Classification System and ScheduleofWage Categories,
8.02	Within one (1) month following the signing of this Agreement the Company will provide the Unit Chairperson or the Chief Stewardwtth a list of the rates paid to all regular andprcbatfonary employeee and will, thereafter advise hlrrVher in writing of changes that occur,
ARTICLES NIGHT AND WEEK-END PREMIUMS
9,01	The Company agrees to pay a premium of thirty-five (.35p) cents per hour to all regular and probationary employees working on shifts beginning between the hours of 2:00 p,m, and 2:00 a,m. Employeesworking on shifts beginningat 12:00 noon will receive the samepremiumham2;00 p,m, untilthe completion of their shift or 6:00 a.m. Employeesworking on shifts beginning between2:00 a.m. and5:00 a.m, will receive the same premium until 6:00 a.m, This premium shall not be considered as part of such employees' basic rotes,
Regularand probationary employees whose schedule calls/orwork on calendar Saturdays and/or Sundaysshallbepald one end one-half times their regularrates for all scheduled hours worked on such days. Such premiums shall not be considered as part rf such employees'basic rates.
8
Sanitationemployeesrequiredto work a regularshift on Saturdays^" Shift) will be paid at their regular rates.
ARTICLE 10 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
10.01	All hours worked by regular and probationary employees in excess of eight (8) hours perday orforty 40 hours per weak on a basis of five (5) days perweak, shall be paid for at one and one-half (1V4) times their regular hourly rates. Overtime premiums will only be paid following forty (40) hours of work provided the time missed was not a result of being sent home or laid off.
10.02	Alternate schedules, considered to be more In keeping with the wishes of employees, maybe submitted by the Union. Such scheduler,will be Implemented by the Company provided Management agrees they satisfactorily meat the requirements ofthe business and, inWa respect, Management's decision shall not be made arbitrarily or unreasonably, in the event a grievance le processed to arbitration and the Arbitration Committee determines that Management's decision was made arbitrarily or unreasonably andthatthe alternate schedule submitted by the Union Isto be implemented,the arbitration award shall be made effective the week following receiptofthe award.
The Companywlll continue to post the schedule by noon each day, howeverlf it is not posted, the Company will callthe employees, if theemployee leaves early for their own reasons, it Is their responsibility to call the plant to find out where and when they are working,
10.03	Double their regular hourly rates shall be paid to all regular and probationary employees for those hours worked on Sunday, except for those whose woik regularly falls on Sunday.
10.04	Because, however, receipts of raw materials and the demand for the Company's products vary from season to season andfromdayto day, the Union agrees that it may at times be necessarytp exceed or to reduce these basic hoursofwork.
10.05	Emergency Cali-ln. Regular hourly-rated employees. If specially celled In at any time outside their regularworking hours, shall be through when the emergency Is over, and shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hour# worked, but with a minimum guarantee of four (4) hours atthelr regularrates.
9
10.06	DaUy Guarantee. Any regularor probationary employeereporting for work as usual unless previously notified not to report, who Is dismissed for that day by reason of some cause forwhich he/she is not responsible, shall receive for that day at least four (4) hours' pay at his/her regular rate. The above guarantee shall not apply if work Is not available due to Acts of God. Employeeswill benotffled two (2) hours priorto their shift start notto report, If not requiredfortheir shift,
10.07	TheUnlon agreesthatltsofficera, stewardsand members shall not transact Union business during hours for which they are paid by the Company, except with the permission of the Company. No steward may leave his/her department without securing permission from his/her foreperson, Permission will granted as soon as reasonably possible.
10.08	Employeesshall not be regularlyrequlred to work morethan five (5) hours without a meal period, When employees are required to work three hours or mombeyond their scheduledworking hours, they will be entitled to an allowance of $6.00, which will be added to their gross earnings for that fiscal week.
Employees, If required to work in excess of five hours on Sunday (exceptfor those employees whose schedule callsforwork on calendarSundays). will beerrtHled to an allowance of $5,50,
Lunch periods will be scheduled between three and one-half (3V4)and five (5) hours into the shift, unless a mutual agreemsnt ts reached to vary ths tunch times.
10.09	There shall be no accumulation of ovsrtlme premiumsforthe same hoursworked, butthe highest single premium shallapply.
10.10	Injury-ShiftGuarantee, An employeelnjured whileworklng In the plantshall suffer no foaa of earnings for the balance ofhours necessarily lostln the scheduledshift in which the accident occurs and/or for hours necessarily lost from up to three subsequent scheduled shifts within three weeks of the dateoftheacctdentif, as a result of such Injuryhe/she ]s sent home ortothe hospital or for medical attention on Instructions fromthe medical department but. If such Is not possible, then by a Company repressntative, If ths Injuiy occurs on anon-scheduled day, the employee will be paid for the hours necessarily lost which would have been worked had the Injurynotdccurred. Workers' Compensation for such Injuryshallbe deducted from benefits due under this section,
10
ARTICLE 11 PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
11.01	The Companyagreesto payall regular andprobatlonary employeesattheir regular rates of pay, for the normal number of hours ofwork on each of the following public holidays, whether they Work or not on such holiday, and such hours paid will be consideredas hoursworkedforthe purposesof Article 10,1,
New Years Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Dominion Day
Civic Holiday LabourDay Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Regularandprobattonaryemployeesabaenfonthework-daynextprsoedlngorthelr work- day next following any of the above paid holidays shall not be entitled to pay for such holidayunleas the absentee received permission from the Companyto be absent or was absent because of alcknssa or for other good cause arising from circumstances beyondhls/her control. The work-day next preceding the holiday and on which the employee mustreport for work and work shall be Interpreted to be one of the three workday8 Immediately preceding the holiday.
Effective December 12,1696, one (1) Individual ftoater to be granted between the months of October 1 through April 30,
11.02	Employees eligible for holiday pay and Instructed to report for work on a holiday, shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times their regular rates for all hours worked on the calendarday of the holiday In&ddttJon to holiday payto which they areentltled.
11.03	If any of the above holidays fall Ch a Saturday, the Friday preceding shall be observed and where Friday Is also e holiday, the Thursday wilt be observed In lieu of Friday. Ifany of the paid holidays tell oil a Sunday, the Monday following shall be obsen/edendwhereMondayls alsoaholiday.theTuesdaywIII beobsen/edlnlleu of Monday,
Subsection 3. By mutual agreementa paid holiday may be observed by the plant, on another day In lieu of the holiday, and in such a case the day generally recognized as the Public Holiday, shall be considered a normal work day and regular rates will apply.
11
11.04	A regularor probationary employee, If laidottor recalled In the pay weeks In which the public holiday falls, shaH receive eight (8) hours' pay at regular rates for such holiday, providedhe/she receivespayforhoursworkedln such week. Paymentwill also be made In respect to such holidays which are observed on Monday to employees laid off on the Friday, Saturday or Sunday immediately preceding, Similarly, paymentwill be made in respect lo Saturday holidays to employeeslaid off on the Friday immediatelyprecedtng, To qualify for this holiday pay, employees must reportforwork when required In that week.
11.05	Ifa paid public holidayfalls within the employee's vacation period, he/she may elect to receive holiday pay as provided Inthe first paragraphofthls Article orreceivee compensatoryday's holiday.
Ifthe employee elects to receives compensatoryday's holiday with pay. K shall be taken at a time to be agreed upon between the Company and the employee. If subsequently the employee does work on the day agreed upon as the compensatoryday's holiday. It shall be considered as work performed on a paid public holiday and the employee shall be paid as set out above.
11.08	The Company agrees to pay to an employee who woifci otherwise qualify for holiday pay under Arttde 11, but who is receiving sick pay or Markers' Compensation, the difference between sfck payor Workers 'Compensation as the case may be end eight (8) hours' pay at his/her regular rate when the employee returns to \nork. as long as he/she continues to receive rick pay or, ff on compensation,forsuchpertod astheemployeewouldhavebeenentitiedlo receive sick pay had he/she been sick. Should the public holiday be observedon a non-scheduledday, theCompanywW paytheemployeesellgibleforeitherofthe above payments, eight (8) hours' pay at their regular rates.
ARTICLE 12 REST PERIODS
12.01	The Company agrees to grant red periods often (10) minutes during morning and afternoon shifts, providedthe working time <£ the shift exceeds two and one half (2%)hours. A rest period oftan(10) minutes shall begranted inovertime, provided the overtime shift is expected to exceed one and one half(V/«J hours. The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day, The Union agrees that Rest Periods must not be abused. The Company will schedule a minimum of eight (8) hours
12
between scheduled shifts unless tho employee egress to* lessor period of time.
ARTICLE 13 SENIORITY
13.01	Subiecttothe provisionsof this Article, seniority shall mean accumulated service in the bargaining unit, except that ail servioewlth the Company priorto December 12, 1B93, shell be considered as "seniority". Persons from the bargaining unit appointedto plant supervisory positions afterDecember 12,1993, shall continue to retain seniority while in such positions for a period of one year from the dale of their appointment.
13.02	Employeesshell be regarded as falling Into three(3)daesas: part-time, student and regular.
Part-time employees shall meanemployeesregulartyemployedfor twenty-four (24) hours weekly or less, These employeesshall not be entitled to seniority,
"Students'shall mean those employees hired around the school vacation period, meaning march break, May 1 until September 1, and th* Christmas Holidays.These employeesshallwof have seniority, Such employees, if retained after thevacation period, shall be subject to the probationary period commencing at the and of the school vacation period,
All other employees shall be regardedas probationary employeeswhen hired and shall have no seniority. Afterthree (3)months' service they shall become regular employees and shall receive credit for seniority from the date of their employment, provided however, thatforthe purpose of determining the probationary period each full day of absence from work for any reason, will be added to the stipulated three (3) month period.
Probationary employees, if laid off and later rehired, will be given credit for past service asa probationary employee, ifthey complete the probationary period within nine morrthsfrom the date they became probationary employees.
13.03	Lay-Off. IncaseitbecomesnecessarytoreducetheworWngforce.thaorderoflayoff shall be as follows:
13
First:	Studentemployees will be laid off.
Second:	Pirt-fJm* employees except by agreement with the Union,
Third:	Probationaryemployeeswill belaid off, provided regular employees
remainingcan perform the required tarks satisfactorily.
Fourth:	Regular employee8 In order of seniority, provided those employees
who are retained can performthe required work satisfactorily. Senior employees who may be expected to qualify reasonably quickly will be
given an opportunity to do so.
13,04	Recall. When increasing the working fores, the order of recall shell be full-time employee8 in order of their seniority, regardless ofthedepartmentslnwhlch they were previously employed, provided they can perform the required work satisfactorily, Part-time employees In ordercfthslr seniority,
13.05	An employee transferred from one plant of the Company to another shall retain his/her seniority, subject to approval by the managemantand local union of the plantto which he/she Is transferred,
13.06	Accident or Sickness Leave. If en employee Is absent from work bemuse of accident or sickness, he/she Shan accumulate seniority while off work, uptothetime limits corresponding to seniority e8 sat cut InArfde 13,11 and shall be returned to the position previously held or toe position carrying a rate equal to that previously held subject to seniority and ability to perform the required work satisfactorily. If such positions are notavailable. theemployee shall, subject to seniority and ability, be placed on s job he/she can satisfactorily performAppllcaticna for reinstatement afterthe expiry of the ellowable periods shall be consideredon their merits,
13.07	a) Leavefbr Union Position, One employee who is elected or appointedto a
full-timeposltlon with the Union, shall upon proper notice, be grantedleave of absence without pay, for e period not to exceed the term of this Agreement. Such employes, upon one month's notice of his/her desire to return to work with the Company, shall subject to his/her seniority and ability to satisfactorily perform the required work, be placed In the position previously held or one at an equal rate of pay. If such positions are not available the employee shall, subjectto seniority and ability, be placed on a
14
job he/she can satisfactorily perform, retainingthe seniority possessed at the time such leave of absence was granted,
b) Public Office Leave. Employees who are elected to the municipal government, the Provincial Legislature of the Governmentof Canada shell, upon establishing need for same, be granted leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceed the duration of this Agreement. Those granted such leave will retain the seniority possessed priorto the leave but will not accumulatesenlority during the leave of absence.
o) Temporary Union Business Leave. Subject to the needs of the business, leaveofabsenceforthe purpose of attending Union schools, conventionsor conferencesfor a period not exceeding 30 days shall be grantedto up to 3 employeeschosen by the Union on a written reguest from the Local Union. The Union shall give the Company written node# of not less than 2 days before the requested leave Is to commence. Employees on such leave of absence shall accumulate seniority during the period of the leave of absence.
13.08	Leave of Absence, Subjectto the exigencies of the business, leave of absence wfthout pay up to one year may be granted by the Company on the written request of an employee provided the reasons stated In the application ere sufficient,
13.09	Pregnancy and parental leave, shall be granted In accordance with the EmploymentStandarda Act of Ontario as amended fromtime to time.
13.10	Seniority records shall be maintained bythe Company showing the places on the senlorttylleiofal/employeesln every department, This list shall be revised quarterly or as otherwise agreed and copies given to the Chief Steward of the Union, The names and service of probationary employees will be added to this list.
13.11	The seniority of en employee shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited, end there shall be no obligation to rehire, when he/she:
a)	Voluntarily (saves the service of the Company, or is dismissed for cause.
b)	Fails ionium to work when recalledor cannotbe locatedafter reawnable effort on the pari of the Company. The present method of contact or a telegramor a notice mailed to the employeeatthe last known address of the
15
employee, shall constitute a reasonableeffortxx the part of the Company, and if, within 48 hours of such notice, the employee falls to reportfor duty, or to advise the Company of the date when he/she will so report, the Company shell be entitled to assume that the said employee has voluntarily lefttheCOmpany'semploy. In urgent cases, however, where it is necessary to secure workers at notice of lass then 48 hours, the Company. If unableto make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recaH the next senior employeeand so on downthe list, until the vacancy If filled.
The Company will give the employee reasonable time to report to wok. howeverthis time will not extend beyond2 hours.
Employees rehlred under such circumstances shall retain the positions to which they are appointed, but provided the employees with whom the Company was unable to communicate in time, later within 96 hours advise the Company of their desire to return to the Company's employ, they shall retain their seniority, and shall be eligible for recall on the next occasion of a vacancy in a position for which they possess the required ability,
c) Ha8 been out of the Company's employ in excess of allowable breaks defined below:
These allowablebreaks on lay-off may be extended by adding periods of absence resulting from sickness or personal Injury certified by a physician, upto the above timelimits, cr by leave of absence granted by the Company, up to one year.
An employee who return to work within the time of an allowable break shall retain the seniority he/she had at the time he/ahe was laid off, but shall not accumulate additional seniority during the period of lay-off. A seniority employee laW off or suspended, who returns from layoff cr suspension, shall accumulateseniortty for a period of twenty working days following the lay off or suspension.
Length aEmp|ovee'a.Sflrvigfl Over90 days to 12 months
Allowable Break
Over 1 year
16
13.12	Personswhom the Company is training to fill technical, commercial or supervisory positions, may be employed or retained In employment In plant operations Irrespective of the seniority provisionsof this Article. The secretary of the Local Unionshallbeadvisedof such appointments, Except byagreementwiththe Union, such appointmentsshall not exceed 1 % of thetotal numberof employees covered by this contract.
13.13	ChangesIntroducedlntotheCompany'ssenloritypollcyasaresultofthe provisions of this Article, shall apply only to employees affected by this Agreement, who are presently in the employ of the Company, and future employees,
ARTICLE 14 JOB POSTIN0
14.01	Notices of vacancies above Production Category 1 (Including all Mechanical and Engineers categories)withinthe Bargaining Unit will be posted, A copy of all such notices will be given to the Unit Chairperson or Chief Steward of the Union et the time of posting, Those applying within five (5) worWng days from the time of posting will receive consideration for the vacancy on the basis of ability and seniority, seniority being the governingfactor when ability Is equal, provided they possess suitable qualification* for the Job andean qualify reasonablyquickly. All promotions shall be on a probationarybasls untiltheemployerhas demonstrated his/her ability to perform the new task satisfactorily. Employees selected lo fill such positions temporarily shall receive equal consideration with such applicants. Employee* who have successfully bid on a Job posting In the previous twelve (12) month* will notb* eligible to apply to a posting unless the postsd position is In ■ higher wage category. The employ** may elect to return to his/her former position within twelve (12)d»y» of his/her commencement Inthe position.
SHIFT PREFERENCE
An employee who successfully bids on a lob posting, must work on the shift where the vacancy appears.
The employee must remain on that same shift for one year. During this period of time, they have theoption of applying for any otherjob posting within the plant
After one (1) year, the employee hasthe option of bumping less senor employees within the same job posting,
if an employee Is laid off their regular job on their shift, they have the options of bumping to another shift or choosing e layoff day providing the needs of the business are satisfied.
17
ARTICLE 15 VACATIONS
15.01	The Company agrees subjectto the provisions setforth lithe following sections of thisArtlcle tograntvacatlons with payonthe basisrf service calculated to January 1", as follows:
a)	Employees with service of less than five (5) years will b e granted vacations In accordance with Ontario Law.
b)	Thereafter, employees will receive vacations with pay based on years of service as follows:
After 5 years' sendee 3 weeks After 10 years' service 4 weeks After 20 years' service 5 weeks After 25 years' service 6 weeks
15.02	Employees who, after January 1" and prior to September 1"of the calendar year, reach the sendee required to entitle them to an additional week of vacation, in accordance with the vacation scale sotout In Section 15.01(b) above,will become eligible for such additional weak of vacation on completion of the required years of sendee. If circumstances permit such week may be granted earlier in the year.
15.03	me vacation week shall be considered to consist of 40 hours at the regular hourly rate, provided this amount will be reduced by one fifty-second (1/52nd) tor each week of absence excepting absences which are:
(1)	With permission upto 30 days annually.
(2)	Due to sickness ip to 30 days annually or such longer periods as an employee may be entitled to receive sick pay under the Company's Sick Pay Plan, and
(3)	Up rDone (1) year due to compensable accident,
15.04	The Company may schedule a one week shut down each year. This will normally be scheduled the last week of July prior to Civic Holiday. Employees will benotified of this shut down byMarch 1* In the year e shut down isto be scheduled.
18
15.05	Vacations may be granted at any time subjectto the demands of the business, but the Company will make a sincere effort to grant vacations at time8 requested by employees. Subjectto the requirements of Article 15.04 employeeswill Indicate their preferencefor their firsttwo weeks vacation entitlement in order of seniority. Where there Is a shutdown, as in Article 15,04, the shutdown week will be considered to be the employees first week of vacation. Employeeswill then Indicate their preference for any remaining weeks’ entitlement in order of seniority.
15.06	Employees with six (6) or mom years of service who leave the service ofthe Company for any reason will be eligible at time of leaving to receive any unexerclsed vacation credit to which they may be entitled asfollows:
a)	Vacation with pay/rwwhich they were eligible at January 1 “ last preceding.
b)	One fifty-second (1/52nd) of the vacation scale applicable In each case at time of separation for each week of service computed back to January 1",
15.07	Every employeewill take his/her vacation Inthe year in which he/she becomes eligible for It Vacation periods shay not be accumulated from year to year,
ARTICLE 16 SAFETY AND HEALTH
16.01	The Company shall make reasonable provision for the safely and health of employees during working hours. Protective devices on machinery and other devices deemed necessary property to protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. This, however, shall not be construed to Include such personal necessities as safety boots, gloves, coveralls, or any such article which becomesthe personal property of the employee.
The Union agrees to appoint or elect and the Company to recognize three bargaining unit representatives on the Joint Health and Safety Committee. Unless otherwise agreed this Committee will meet monthly. This Committee may make recommendations on matters affecting the safety end health <£ employees.
ARTICLE 17 SICK PAY, BENEFITAND PENSION PLANS
17.01	Sick Pay. Effectivetheflrstfullpayweekfollowlngthedateof ratification, sick pay will be paid In the following amounts In accordance with the Company's Sick Pay Plan:
19
Effective February-), 2003
Group 1	Production Category 1	$299.00
Group 2	Production Categories 2*4 and Mechanical Categoryl	$324.00
Group 3	Mechanical Categories 2*3 and Engineers	$353.00
Effective February 1, 2004
Group 1	Production Categoryl	$307.00
Group2	Production CeUgoriei 2-4 and Mechanical Category	1	$336.00
Group 3	Mechanical Categories 2-3 and Engineers	$365.00
Effective February I ?005
Groupl	Production Category 1	$319.00
Group 2	Production Categories 2*4 and Mechanical Category	I	$348.00
Group3	Mechanical Categories 2*3 and Engineers	$377.00
Theservlce scale for duration of payments Is as follows:
6 monthsto 18 months'service 18 monthsto 5 years' service
6	years to 7 years' service
7	years to 10 years' service 10 years' service and over
4 weeks 116 weeks 26 weeks 34 weeks 62 weeks
The required premiums will be paid 76% by the Company and 25% by the employee.
The three day wafting period will be waived In respect to an employee who is hospitalized during the waiting period due to an Illness, accident orday surgery.
17.02	Life Insurance. In accordance wfth the Company* Life Insurance Plan, eligible employees are coveredfor $30,000,
The Company will pay the full cost of Group Life InsurancePlan.
17,03	Extended Health Care. The Compan/s MajorMedical planwUI remain in effect for the term of this Agreement, except for benefits Introduced In any compulsory government- sponsored plan,
20
Drug Card
The Company will implement e generic drug plan card based on the current coverage by September 1,1998. There l$ a seven dollar ($7,00) dispensing tee cap,
a)	Penial Plan
Effective January 1, 2003, allowable expenseswill be based on the current OntarioDental Association FeeScheduleuptoamaximumof$1,600,00 per calendaryear.
b)	Vlaton Care
Effective Februaryl, 2003, allowable expenseswill be paid to a maximum of $140.00. Effective February-!, 2004 $150.00. Effective February 1, 2005*160.00.
17,04	Pension Plan
EffectiveFebruary1,2005, emend employer contribution from$12.00 to$13.00 retroactive for all eligible years In the plan.
ARTICLE 18 APPEARANCE IN COURT
18.01 An employee summonedtoappearor required to serve jury dutyor one who has been served with a subpoena to appear as a witness shall be paidthe difference between what he/she would have earned for his/her scheduled hours at his/her paid rate end the courtfee received. Employees should notify their foreperson as soon as possible after receipt of notice of selection for Jury duly or after receipt of the subpoena to appear as a witness. The Company may require the employee to furnish a certificate of service from an officer of the court before making any payment under this section. The anpioyeewlll come to work during those regular hours that he/she Is notrequired toattend court. An employee serving asajuror or as asubpoenaed witness ]s not required to work his/her regularscheduled shift.
21
ARTICLE 19 BEREAVEMENTPAY
19,01	When an employee attends the funeral of an immediate relative. he/she shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at his/her regular rate for the day ofthe funeral and for two (2)otherdaysto betaken not later than two (2) days following the day ofthe funeral, provided that such payments are made oily in respect to absence from work on his/her regularwork days.
VUien an employee cannotattend thefuneral of an Immediate relative because of geographical distance, he/she shall receive (8) eight hours pay et his/her regular rate for the day of thefuneral. Such payment will be made in respect to absence fontwork on his/her regularworkday.
Forthe purpose of this clause, an immediate relative shall be one ofthe following: Wife, Husband, Daughter. Son, Mother, Father, Sister, Brother, MotheMn-law, Father-In-law. Brother-in-law. SIster-ln-law, Grandmother, Grandfather, Grandchildren, Stepson. Step-daughter (on both sides of the family).
When an employee ettende the funeral of an Immediate family member, specifically Great Grandfather, Great Grandmother, Immediate Aunt(i), Immediate Uncle(s) they shall be entitled lo eight (S) hours pay at his/her regularrate for the day ofthe funeral, provided that such paymentsam made only In respect to absence from work on his/her regular work day. If an employee should request time offforattendance at the funeral ofa spouse’s Great Grandfather, Great Grandmother, Immediate Aunt(s), Immediate Uncle(s) the day of the funeral will be granted at no pay.
ARTICLE20 RENEW OF LICENSES
20,01	The Company will reimburse employees for the renewal of necessary licenses required Inthe performance of their duties.
ARTICLE 21 CLOTHING
21,01	Oilskin aprons, oilskin sleeves, gloves, heir nets, head coverings and knives specified by the Company as required for work will be supplied to employees but such Items shall remain the property ofthe Company and shall not be removed from
the Company's premises.
Launderable outer work dothlng specified by the Companyas requiredfor work will besupplled to employeee. The Company will make the necessary arrangements for the laundering of such dothlng, Notwithstanding the above, (he deposit system
22
presently In effedfor leathergbves, jackets, coveralls and smocks shall continue in effect. The Company will providea 530.00 allowance towards the costs of frock liners if employees purchase a frock liner during the course of this Collective Agreement.
Employees with morethan six (6) months'seniortty, who purchase C.8, A, approved safety footwear for use on the job, will receive an allowance of up to 5100,00 towards such purchase. Employeeswith less than six (6) months' seniority who purchase C.S,A, approved safety footwear shall be reimbursed up to 5100,00 towards such purchase cn attainment of six (6) months' seniority, Effective February 1, 2004, Increase allowance to one hundred and fifteen dollar* (5116.00). Effective Februaryl, 2006, Inorea** allowanceto one hundred and twenty-five dollar* ($125.00). Fora subsequent purchase,employees will again become eligible for this allowance one (1) year from the date of their previous purchaseunderthis provision,
Tool Allowance
Employeesln the mechanicalgroupwlll be granted a tod allowance of up to five hundred dollar* (5SOO.OOJ during the course ofthe Collective Labour Agreement for the replacement of tools required bythe company, which am broken orwom out onthe|ob, The allowance may also be used for the purchase of newtools, required by the company to maintain new equipment or to employ newtechniques.
New employees It the mechanical group will not be eligible untf they have completed twelve (12) months service onthejob.
ARTICLE 22 GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS
22,01	It is mutually agreed that no demand shall be made by either patty to this Agreement upon tho other party, which In any way contravenes laws, orders or regulations Issued by, or under authority of, the Governmentcf Canada arthat of Me Province of Ontario, or such agency as may be deputed by either of such Governments from time to time In regard towages, bonum, hours, conditions of labouror other related matters,
ARTICLE23 UNIONNOTICES
23.01	During the life of this Agreement, the Company agrees to permit Union Officers, who are employees of the Company, to put notices of Union meetings or of other
23
matters of interest lo Union members upon bulletin boards customarily used for such purposes, providedall such notices are to be first approved by the manager, <r his/her designated representative.
The Union agreeslo refrain from distributing any other noticesof publications upon the Company's premises, and to distribute any printed materialat the gates only after working hours.
ARTICLE 24 PLANT CLOSING
24,01	When it becomesnecassary todosethe plant or a substantial portion of the plant
and It Is not expected that those affected will be re-employed, a separation
allowance will be paid to employees subject to thefollowing;
a)	They haveone(1) cr moreyears'seniority,
b)	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulatingseniortty or have been laid off within the thirty (30)day period preceding the date of notice of Closing. Employees on leave <£ absence up to one (1) year, and employees receiving Workers, Compensation or off sick will be eligible, provided they have not been off work in excess of the time limits corresponding to seniority at set out in Article 13.
c)	They have not refusedanofferof employmentby the Company in the same plant or In anotherunlt of the business, the location of which Is reasonably accessible to the location of the place of employment from which the employees are being separated,
d)	They havenotrefused anofferof employmerrtthe requirements ofwhich are not substantiallydifferent from thework previously performed and provided they cannot be reasonably expected to perform the offered work satisfactorily,
e)	They have not been granted retirement on pension,
f)	They have notbeen transferred to another plant.
g)	Thedoslnglsnotbroughtaboutbywar,strike,walkout. workstoppage, slow down or odiercassatlon of work, lire.govemmentaotion, or Act of God.
24
h)	'In onderto qualityfor separation allowance employeesv.il continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
I)	The scale of separation allowance shall be a8 follows:
YEARS OF
COMPLETED SERVICE	AMOUNT
1
2
3
4
5
6 7
a
9
10
11 to 20 21 and over
$ 300.00 $400,00 $500.00 $ 600.00 $700.00 $650.00 $1,000.00 $1,150.00 $1,300.00 $1,450.00
The ten year allowance plus $260,00 for each year overten. The twenty year allowance plus $325.00 for each year over twenty.
24.02	Employees who accept separation pay underthe provisions of this clause shall on so doing terminate their seniority and employment relationshipwlth the Company and shall haveno further rights under this Agreement or under any other Agreement between the signing parlies.
24.03	Inrespect to those employees who are eligible for separation allowance underthis Article the Company will contlnueto contribute to the Group Lite Insurance,Medical-Surgical, ExtendedHealthCare and Hospitalization plans. Such contributions shall continue for a period of up to three months following the month h which the plant Is closed and will be made on the basis existing at the Ume of dosing.
ARTICLE2$ DURATION OF AGREEMENT
25.01 This Agreementshall remain In full force andeffect February 1,2003, until the 30* day of March 2006, and shall thereafter automatically renew Itself from yearto
25
year, unless a notice of termination or ofamendmentls given by either party to the other in writing anytime within 90 dry. beforethe expiry date of the Agreement. If such notice 1$ given, this Agreement shell remain in force during the period of negotiations.
Sub-titles of the provisionsofthisAgreement are for index purposes only and are not Intended as e guide to interpretation of the Agreement.
Insigning the foregoing Agreement thspartiea hereto recognize that no rigid rules can of themselves secure mutualco-operation which bothpartles agree isessentlal alike to the welfare of the business and to that of the employees.
It is. therefore, of paramount importance to ad concerned that the spirit of this Agreement befollowedas faithfully as the written terms.
With thio in mind the parties hereto pledge their beat endeavourto carry out the provisions of this Agreement In a spirit of goodwill, tolerance end understanding.
SIGNED tills /?Vh day	La 2003.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC.
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, BRANTFORD, ONTARIO LOCAL 175
Virginia Haggith
Kim Hickey
Patricia Sherwood

26
APPENDIX "C"
Office Janitor
APPENDIX "D”
■ . JOB CATEGORY CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM
(a)	Subjecttothe following provlslone, regularfull-time, probationary, part-time and student employees shall receive the applicable wage rates set out in Appendix "D”, SecBon2 Scheduleof Wage Categories for the classifications to which they are regularly assigned, provided they are qualified,
(b)	An employee shall receive the applicable category rate after he/she has been assigned to the classification concerned for a period of six (6) weeks and is qualified, subject to (e)or(O below,
(c)	When an employeels regularlyassigned to classifications Inmcrethanone wage category he/she shall be paid an hourly wage rate determined by bringing into accountthe actual percentage of time worked In the highest rated category end the balance of the total time worked In the next highest rated category. When such an employeeregularfy works 76'% or moreof his/her time In fe highest rated category he/she shall be paid the rate for that category.
The above hourly wage rate calculation will besubjectfo(e)or(f) below.
(d)	When an employee is required to temporarily fill a job In a higher rated category he/she shall receive the higher rete, but If required to temporarily fill ajob Ina lowercategory he/she shall receivehls/her regular rate, subject to (e) or(f) below.
(e)	Thestartingratefornewemployees hired priortoJuly22,2000,willbe8Q% of the applicable category. Automatic Increasesof 6% of the category rate willbe granted on the completion of each 6 months' service, except that after twenty-one months service, the category rate will be paid,"
New part-time employeeshiredprior to July 22,2000, shall receive a starting rate of 80% of the applicable categoiy. Automatic Increasesof 5% of the category rate will begrantedonthecompletionofeach one thousand (1,000)
27
hours worked, Afterfourthourand (4,000) hours worked, (hey will be paidthe rate of the category as set out In Appendix "D", Section 2 -Schedule of Wage Categories.
(f)	It Is agreed that the differential for new employees applicable lo all other employeeswill notapply to thoseintheMechankial or Engineerscetegories, The starting rate for new employees hired in the Mechanicalor Engineers categories wHI be 0,50$ per hour below the category rate. An eutomatlc Increase of0,25$ perhourwill be granted on the completions of3 months' service, After 6 norths' service, the category rate will be paid.
(g)	LeadHandsdesignatedbytheOperattonsManagerrhaibepaki a premium over their calculated wage rate for the duration of the assignment, on the following basis:
Lead Hands* fifty cents(50$) per hour.
2.	SCHEDULE OF WAGE CATEGORIES
PRODUCTION	Effective
Feb 1/03
Category4	$15.54
Gravy bfeker Line Operator
Freerer/Fryer/Oven Operator
Hayssen Operator
Formulator
Massager
Waste Water
Sanitation
Category3 (e)	$16.28
Quality Control Shipper-Receiver
Category3	$15>24
SdL up and Maintain Equipment
PastryMaker
Fork Lift Operator
Effective	Effective
Fob 1/04	Fob 1/05
$15.54	$16.14
$15.58	$15.88
$15,54	$15.84
28
Effective	Effective
Feb 1/03	Feb 1/04
Category 2	$14.34	$14.64
Pie Line Attendant
Plate Freezer Operator
Skidding
□icing
Comatrol
Sepomatk;
Category 1	$14.04	$14,34
General Labour
Packer
Spreader
Inspection
Janltor/Janitress
MECHANICAL
Category 3
Electrician 'A' (fully qualified with Provincial Certificate)
$22.05	$22.35
MUnrHifA' (fully qualified with Provincial Certificate)
$22.05	$22.35
1* Class Engineersor Refrigeration B
$22.05	$22.35
Category 2	$17.53	$17,83
General Maintenance 'A1
Category 1	$14,62	$14.92
Maintenance Help ENGINEERS
2nd Class Engineers	$21,70	$22.00
3" Class Engineers	$21.55	$21.85
491 Class Engineers	$21.55	$21.86
Effective
Feb 1/05
$14.94
$14.64
$22.65
$22.65
$22.65
$18.13
$1522
$22.30
$22.15
$22.15
29
Now Hlrea After July 22.2000 Effect! v« February 1.2003
Full-time
Start Rate 1“ year 2"llyear 3rt year 4* year-full
Part-time
Start Rata 1“year 2“' par 3" par 4* year ■ full
Categoryl Category 2 Category3
Category3a Category 4
310.33
311.18
$12.01
$12.84
$14.04
$10, sr
$11.42
$12.27
$13.11
$14.34
$11.23
$12.13
$13.03
$13.94
$15.24
$11.27
$12.16
$13.07
$13.97
$15.28
$11.45
$12.37
$13.29
$14.21
$15.54
Category 1
Category 2 Category 3 Category 3a Category 4
$10.35
$10.85
$11.35
$12.10
$13,10
$10.57
$11.08
$11.59
$12.38
$13.38
$11-23 $11.77 $12.31 $13.13 $14.22
$1126
$11.80
$12.35
$13.16
$14.26
$11.45
$12.00
$12.56
$13.39
$14.50
Student Rates
category 1
C»tegory2 Category3 category3a Category4
1“ year	$922	$9.42
Subsequentyeare $1025	$10,47
$10.02	$10.05
$11.13	$11.16
$10.22
$11.35
30
Effective February 1 ■ 2004
Full-time
Category! Category 2 Category 3
Category 3a Category4
Start Rata 1“ years''1 year year
4* year ■ full Part-time
Start Rata 1" year 2»a yeir 3* year 4*1 year-full
310.6S	$10,37	$11.53	$11.57	$11.75
$11.45	$11.72	$12.43	$12.45	$12.67
$12.31	$12.57	$13.33	$13.37	$13.59
$13.14	$13,41	$14.24	$14.27	$14.51
$14.34	$14.34	$15.54	$15.58	$15.84
Category! Category2 Category3 Category3aCategory4
$10.65	$10.87	$11.53	$11.58	$11,75
$11.15	$11.38	$12.07	$12.10	$12.30
$11.85	$11.89	$12.61	$12,65	$12.86
$12.40	$12.66	$13.43	$13.46	$13.69
$13.40	$13.66	$14.62	$14.56	$14.80
Student Rates
Category 1
Category2 Category 3 Category 3a Category4
1*year	$9.43	$9.63	$10.22
Subsequent year* $10.48	$10,69	$11.35
$10.24	$10.41
$11.38	$11.57
Effective February 1.2005
31
Full-timo
Category I CategoryS Category 3
Category 3a Category 4
Start Rate 1“ yaar 21- year 3“ yaar 4* year-full
$10.95
$11.78
$12.81
$13.44
$14.84
$11.17
$12.02
$12,87
$13.71
$14.94
$11.83
$12.73
$13.63
$14.54
$15,84
$11.87
$12.76
$13.67
$14.57
$15.88
$12.05
$12,97
$13.89
$14.81
$18.14
Part-tlma
Category 1
Category 2 Category 3 Category 3a Category 4
start Rata l^yaar 21- year 3" year 4"' yaar -full
$10.95
$11.45
$11.95
$12.70
$13,70
$11.17
$11.68
$12.19
$12.96
$13.98
$11,83
$12.37
$12.91
$13.73
$14.82
$11.87
$12.40
$12.95
$13.76
$14.86
$12.05
$12.60
$13.16
$13.99
$15.10
Student Ratea
Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 Category 3a Category 4
1“year
Subsequent years
$9.63	$9.82	$1041
$10.69	$10.91	$11.57
$10.44	$10.61
$11.60	$11.79
3,	CLASSIFYINGNEW OF CHANGED JOBS
(a)	The Company will classify the |ob Into the wage category schedule, based on comparisons with otherjobs inthe plant, and notify the Chief Steward, in writing.
(b)	I n case of disagreement, the Union will give written notice to the Company stating the wage category Inwhich, in the Union's judgement, the job should be classified, and a list of job comparisons explaining the bads upon which the Union's judgement was made. If notice of disagreement a5 set out above is not received by the Company within 60 days of the date the Chief Stewardwas notified of the wage category inwhich the job was classified by the Company, the category Inwhichtheiob was placed bytheCompanywill be considered the agreed category forthejob
32
Similarly, when the Company has advised the Union that there is no justification^ reclassifying ajob in a higherrated category where theUnion alleges a job has been changed, the Union may give written notice of disagreement to the Company stating the wage category In which, In the Union's judgement the alleged changedjob should be classified, and a list of jcb comparisons explaining the basis upon which the Union's judgement was made,
Followingrecelpt of the Union's notice of disagreement, the Company,within 30 days, will submit the Union in writing, e list of job comparisons explaining the basis uponwhich the Company's judgement was made.
(c)	The disagreementwillthen be discussed by the Chief Steward and/or Unit Chairperson and Management representatives. A full-time representativeof the Union may attend tnls meeting,
I no agreement Is reached, the Union may refer the disagreement to arbitration as set cut in Article 7, Section 6 fcy giving written notice to the Company, within30 days following the above meeting, stating the Union's final judgement of the appropriate wage category and the fist of job comparisonson which It will rely et arbitration. Following receipt of the Union's notice the Company will submit its final judgement of the appropriate wage category and the list of job comparisons on which it will rely at arbitration.
The Arbitrator, or Arbitration Committee, shall have only the authority to decide In favour of the wage category set by the Company or the wage category submitted by the Union, based on comparisons with other Jobs in the plant as submitted on the final lists of job comparisons submitted by the parties. The Arbitrator's, cr Arbitration Committee's, decision will establish the wage category which will be binding on both parties,
m) After the job Is started the wage category set by the Company will be implementedand the applicable ratewiUbepaid retroactive to the date that the Job reached normal operation. Similarly, If subsequentlythe Jobls placed in a higher rated category aa a result of a disagreement submitted by the Union, includingat arbitration, the rate Increase will be paid retroactive to the date that the job reached normal operation,
33
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
Between:	Maple Leaf Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinafter called The Company1)
and
United Food and Commercial Woriten International Union, Affiliated with the AFL, -CIO, and the Canadian Labour Congress(CLC), local 175 (hereinafter called The Union').
RE CLOTHING SUPPLIES
This will confirmour understanding with respect to suppling clothing to employees.
Freezer coats will be made available to employees working in the freezer, or employees working outside in Winter.
Shippers will be suppliedwith snowsuits as in the past
As employees rotate around vests sometimes are needed in certain areas of the plant. When this happens, vasts will be madeavailableto such employees.
SIGNED this /Sr^h day of	2003.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC.
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, BRANTFORD, CNEBIO LOCAL 175
34
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING *2
Between:	Maple Leaf Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinaftercalled 'the Company')
and
United Food end Commercial Worker* International Union, Affiliated with the AFL, -CIO, and the Canadian Labour Congress(CLC), local175 (hereinafter called "the Union').
RE RECALL RIGHTS
This willconflrm our understandingwith regards to havinga Union Representativepresent when the company is recalling employees.
The Companywlll continue as in the pest to havea Union Representative present t/t/hen recalling employeestowitness that thecalls were mads. If the employeewas unavailable.
SIGNEDthis A?**
2003.
UNITED FOODS COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
MAPLELEAF FOODS INC. BFtANTFORD, ONTARIO
35
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
Between:	Maple Leaf Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinafter called We Company")
and
United FoodandCommsrclal Works?* International Union, Affiliated with the AFL, -CIO, and the Canadian Labour Congress (CLC), local 175 (hereinafter called We Union').
RE: PASTPRACT1CE- ARTICLES #1,#7, #10,07, #18
This will confirm that the Company will live up to past practice regarding Articles #1, #7, #10.07, #18.
SIGNEDthis /t7*'S	AjLn . 2003.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
LOCAL 17S
MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC. BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
Between:
and
Step#1 Step #2
step #3 Blatant means:
36
BETTER OF UNDERSTANDING *4
Maple LeafFoode Inc., Brantford, Ontario, (Hereinafter celled "the Company’)
United Food and Commercial Worker* International Union, Affiliated with the AFL, -CIO, and the Canadian Labour Congress (OLC), bad 176 (hereinaftercalled “the Union”).
RE: OVERTIME
If a person misses an overtimeopportunlty, which Is not blatant, the Company will offer compensating time at both parties convenience, at the next available overtime opportunity (without taking the overtime from another employee) orwithin one(1) month period,
Failure to make up the time at the next opportunity will result In the employee being paid at their appropriate rate for the time missed,
If the employee is missed s	within a six (E) npe	then that
il < tilt Jfft d 5	(le 60%	Ingti	pay
i > lit i < i	ity)v t Jn<
i nil f anotheremployeeor within aone(1)ro od
Failure to make up r i at the rxtoppor will result in the employee being paid rt their late rata for the time that waa missed.
If the employee is missed again within the same (E) month period then that employeewlll receivethe payforthe hours missed at their appropriate rate.
if an employee comes to a supervisor and tells them they were missed on the overtimeopportunlty before the overtime takes Place or the Company has not updated the employees telephone number In the re cords after a change has been submitted by the employee.
37
If the em ployeeis not m issed within a six (6) month period they will be placed back into Step#1.
SIGNED this H
2003,
UNITED FOOD* COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC.
WORKERS INTERNATIONALUNION,	BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
LOCAL175
bJUy -fgyor* j£T~
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5
36
Between:
and
Maple Leaf Foods Inc.. Brantford, Ontario, (H li after i le 1 the Company")
United Foodand Commercial Worker* International Union, Affiliated wtiii the AFL, -CIO, end the Canadian Labour Congress(CLC), local 176 (hereinafter calledthe Union").
RE PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Subjedto the following conditions, the Company may employ part -time employeeswho will not be entitled to the provisions of Article 10 and Article 11 end Article 13 of this Agreement.
A)	A part-time employee may not regularly work mora than twenty-four (24) hours perweek except between May 1" and September 15*.
B)	Hours worked by part-time employees should not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the total number of hours worked by all employees in the plant except during the May 1"b September15* period.
C)	Itls agree that If a part-time employeeshaa completed 1040 hours of part-time work he/ehe will be considered to have part-time seniority and Ifhefshe Is hired to a full-time position as per (0) below, the put-time employee will bo considered lo have seniority effective the date cfL e full-lime hire.
0) If a hill-time employee does notfillajob posting ee per Article 14 then part-time employees may bid omthejob posting basadonthe length of service and the criteria set out InArticle 14,
E)	A full-time employee will not losefull-timeemploymentas a result of his/her specific full- time job being spilt Into the work of two (2) part-time employees,
F)	A full-time employee will not be sent home prior to his/her quitting time unless all part -time employeeswho are working on the same shift have been sent home, providedthatthefull-timeemployeecan perform the work
39
the part-time employee is performing provided the Companydoes not Incur overtime costs.
SIGNED this
/*?**. day of-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC.
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, BRANTFORD, ONTARIO LOCAL 17S
tj, o
40
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING M
Between:
and
Maple Leaf Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario, (Hereinaftercalled “the Company")
United Food andCommerclal Workers International Union, Affiliated with the AFL, -CIO, and the Canadian Labour Congress(CLC), local 175 (hereinafter called “the Union"),
RE: VACATION POUCY
The Company and the Union have agreed that the following policy has been and will continue to be In effect wtth regards to scheduling vacation,
To all employees who are entitled to more than two (2) weeks' vacation within the given year, please Indicate your preferred two (2) weeks on the vacation forms as per the CollectiveAgreement.
All vacation requests must be submitted on or before April leach year, The Company will approve the vacation schedule by AprIM 5. Vacation request resubmitted between April 16 and May 1 will be scheduled baaed on seniority. All other vacationrequestsubmittedafter April 15 will be baaed on the first come first serve basis pending the final vacation schedule. All vacations that are not booked by October 15 will be booked by the Company/Employee. (A full week of vacation booked will take preferenceover single days after April 1).
All vacation requests submitted betweenthe period of January 1 andApriH.forthls same period, will be rescheduled baaed on first come, first setve.
The numberof employees allowed off perjob posting, per category at any given time will be a maximum of 1QC Duringvolume reducedproductlon periods, the maximumof10% maybeexceeded bythe mutual agreement ofthe employee andthe Production Manager.
41
AD vacation forms may be found in the Supervisor's Office and In the Human Resources office. IF you have any questions or concerns, please see your Supervisor or Human Resources.
SIGNED this 19** day	Zj/1 . 2003.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONALUNION, LOCAL175
MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC. BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING *7
42
Between:
and
Maple Leaf Foods Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinafter called "the Company")
United Foodand Commercial Workers International Union,
Affiliated with the AFL, -CIO, and the Canadian Labour Congress (CLC), local 175 (hereinafter called "the Union").
RE: BOOKLET PRINTING
This will confirm the Agreement reacheddurlng 2003 contract renewal negotiations regarding L e printingof bookletcoples of the Collective Agreement.
The Companyto accept Invoice for $300.00 (three hundred dollars) towards Booklet printing Costa.
SIGNED this /q,V~A
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	MAPLE LEAP FOODS INC.
WORKERS INTERNATIONALUNION, BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
LOCAL 175
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING *8
43
Between:
and
Maple LeafFoode Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinafter celled "the Company")
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Affiliated with the AFL, -CIO, and the Canadian Labour Congress (CLC), local 175 (hereinafter called "the Union').
R EUFCW LEUKEMIAFUND
The Employer agrees to deduct once during the month of May from each employee's
pay an amount of ten (10) dollars subject to authorization bysuch employee. Such deductions shall be matched on a dollar for dollar basis by the Employer. The Employershall forward said deductions to UFCW Local 17S by the end of May. The amount forwarded shall bedonated to the UFCW Leukemia Fund.
SIGNED this	day oF^S-tyO^fcnn 1l£A. 2003.
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONALUNION, LOCAL 178
MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC. BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
W iMr*-----
u
44
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #9
Between:	Maple Leaf Food* Inc., Brantford, Ontario,
(Hereinafter called "the Company")
and
United FoodandCommerclal Worker* International Union, Affiliated with the AFL, -CIO, and the Canadian Labour Congress (CLC), local 175 (hereinafter called We Union').
RE: PRODUCTION LEVELS
During the life of the agreement, should then be a need to Inereaee production levels, beyond current capacity level* tho Companyand the Union will mutually agree on a process to achieve desired production level*. Any agreement reached by tho parties will not be Implementedunless ratified by the membership.
UNITED FOOD Si COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 175
MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC. BRANTFORD, ONTARIO
45
letter of understanding M10
Between:
and
Mapleleaf Food* Inc., Brantford, Ontario, (Hereinafter celled the Company")
United Foodand Commercial Worker* Intemetlonel Union, Affiliated with the AFL, CIO, and the Canadian Labour Congress(CLC), local 175 (hereinafter called "the Union”).
RE: MECHANICALCATEOORY 3 • HIGHER WAGE RATES
The Company raeerve* the right to pay higher than the wage ratal aetoutwithinthe Collective Agreement and If a Appendical and Letter! cf Understanding ter the poaltlona In Mechanical Category 3. Thla will only occur for the purposes of
recruiting new/replacement licenced employee!, Inthe event that thla le necessary, the Company will demonstrate to tho Union that they were not successful In recruiting qualified andeulteble employees attho applicable starting rats, At auch time, all current employees within Mechanical Category 3 will receive an equivalent
Increase, and the Category rate will be edjueted eeeordlngly. PriortodoiDg ■ the Companywill Inform tho Union of the Company's decision.
SIGNED this /9*** dayifew. Aesi . 2003.
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONALUNION, LOCAL 175
MAPLE LEAF FOODS I NC. BRANTFORD, ONTARIO