ST. DAVIDS PLANT INDEX
ARTICLE	PAGE
1	Recognition.........................................1
2	Management Rights...................................2
3	Grievance Procedure.................................2
4	Arbitration Procedure...............................4
5	Discharge...........................................5
6	Strikes and Lockouts................................5
7	Seniority...........................................6
8	Lay-off Notice......................................7
9	Posting of Vacancy..................................8
10	Reporting Allowance.................................9
11	Call-in Pay.........................................9
12	Leave of Absence....................................9
13	Leave of Absence for Union Business................10
14	Leave of Absence for Position with Union...........10
15	Court Duty.........................................10
16	Bereavement Allowance..............................11
17	Safety.............................................11
18	Hours of Work......................................12
19	Wages..............................................13
20	Statutory Holidays.,,..............................13
21	Vacations..........................................15
22	Discrimination.....................................15
23	Rest Periods.......................................15
24	Bulletin Boards....................................16
25	Dismissed Employees................................16
26	Shift Differential.................................16
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
Union Security.....................................17
General...........................................
Thnlci.............................................18
Union Business.....................................19
Ifcalih and Welfare................................19
Technological Change...............................20
Notice of Termination and Termination Allowance....20
Consultation.......................................21
Duration of Agreement...........................
Appendix “A".......................................22
Appendix "B".......................................24
Appendix "C”.......................................24
Appendix "D".......................................25
March 2,2005 - March 1,2008
BETWEEN:	KRAFT FOODS GROCERY DIVISION
ST. DAVIDS - PLANT
St. Davids, Ontario
{hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA, LOCAL 175
{hereinafter referred to as the "Union"}
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
1.1
1.2
The Company recognizes that it is the right of the Union to act as sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all hourly rated employees of the Company at its St. Davids Plant, save and except foreman, persons above the rank of foreman, clerical employees, seasonal employees, nurses, and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week, and the persons excluded from the Unit by the terms of the Labour Relations Act.
Foremen and Supervisors will not perform work normally done by bargaining unit employees if performance of such work:
•	results in the lay-off of bargaining unit employees;
•	prevents bargaining unit employees from earning overtime premium payments;
•	results in bargaining unit employees working short time;
•	prevents the recall of bargaining unit employees.
-2-
ARHCLE2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.1	The Union recognizes that it is the exclusive function of the Company:
1(a) to maintain order, discipline and efficiency, put into effect, enforce and alter rules and regulations governing the conduct of employees, to determinejob rating or classification, the hours of work, work assignments and methods of doing the work, the number of personnel required firm time to time and the standards of performance for all employees, except as specifically limited by the provisions of this Agreement;
(b) to hire, retire, promote, demote, transfer, assign, direct, classify, suspend or otherwise discipline or discharge any employees for just cause, subject, however, to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance in the manner and to the extent provided elsewhere in this Agreement;
(c) to operate and manage its business in all respects and at all times; and without limiting the generality of the foregoing the location of plants and departments, the products to be manufactured, the materials to be used, the schedules of production, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing are solely and exclusively the responsibility of the Company.
ARTICLE 3 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
3.1	Any dispute arising out of the interpretation, application, administration or alleged
violation of this Agreement between any bargaining unit employee and the Company shall be settled in accordance with the following procedure.
Grievances must be submitted within ten (10) working days of the alleged occurrence leading to the grievance.
STEP NUMBER 1
The employee in the presence of his steward shall submit a written statement of the grievance dated and duly signed by himself and his steward, to the Foreman. Such written statement shall include a statement of facts upon which the grievance is based, the remedy or correction requested, and the section of the Agreement claimed to have been violated. If the Foreman fails to give a decision within three (3) working days, or if such a decision is not satisfactory to the employee, the employee and the steward shall present the grievance to the Plant Manager within three (3) working days of such failure to settle.
3
STEP NUMBER 2
A grievance submitted in accordance with the above shall be discussed at a meeting between the Grievance Committee and the Plant Manager or his designate and other representatives as the Company deems necessary. If the Plant Manager or his designate fails to give a decision within three (3) working days, or if such decision is not satisfactory, the grievance shall be dealt with at the following step.
STEPNUMBER3
Failing settlement at Step Number 2, within three (3) working days of such failure to settle, the grievance shall be discussed by the Grievance Committee and a representative of the Union's Head Office and a Head Office Industrial Relations representative appointed by the Company and such other representatives as the Company deems necessary. If settled, the Grievance Committee and the Head Office Industrial Relations representative shall sign the grievance noting the disposition made.
3.2	Any grievance not submitted within the time limits nor advanced by the grieving party within the time limits provided for each step of the Grievance Procedure shall be deemed to have been dropped.
3.3	The grievances which have not been satisfactorily settled by the grievance procedure outlined above, shall be submitted to Arbitration for settlement within ten (10) working days after Section 3, Step Number 3.
3.4	When the Company has a grievance which it wishes to take up with the Union, it shall present it in a meeting with the Grievance Committee and such a meeting shall be equivalent to Section 3.1, Step Number 2 of the Grievance Procedure outlined above.
3.5	A steward may submit a grievance on behalf of an employee who is unable to do so for reasons of lay-off, leave of absence or sickness, provided that such grievance is approved by the grievor.
-4-
3.6	When the Union feels it has a general grievance affecting two (2) or more employees, it shall be presented by the Grievance Committee in a meeting wifii the Plant Manager as noted in Section 3.1, and such a meeting shall be equivalent to Section 3.1, Step Number 2, of the Grievance Procedure outlined above.
3.7	The time limits referred to in the Grievance Procedure may be extended by mutual agreement.
3.8	In the event of the dismissal of a seniority employee, a grievance may be submitted at Section 3.1, Step Number 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
3.9	A Grievance Committee shall consist of not more than three (3) seniority employees who are currently employed by the Company. The Company shall be advised of any change in the Grievance Committee. Committeemen may leave their work for the purpose of investigating or settling disputes, without loss of pay, subject to the following conditions.
(a)	A committeeman must obtain permission from his Foreman before leaving his place of work.
(b)	The time spent by committeemen for such purpose may be limited by the Company, i f the Company considers it to be excessive.
(c)	No payment will be made to a committeeman for the time spent by him for such purposes, unless it is during his normal hours of work.
3.10	The union steward will be notified in writing of the suspension or dismissal of a seniority employee.
ARTTCTiE 4 - ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
4.1	If the Company or the Union requests that a grievance as provided above be
submitted to arbitration, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, and at the same time, submit a list of five (5) Arbitrators for consideration. Within ten (10) working days from the receipt of the list of recommended Arbitrators the other party will either accept one (1) Arbitrator from the list or submit a list of five (5) Arbitrators to the aggrieved party for consideration. If no Single Arbitrator can be agreed upon from this list within ten (10) working days, either party may request the Ontario Minister of Labour to appoint an Arbitrator.
4.2	No person may be appointed as an Arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
5
4.3	The Single Arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to amend, alter, modify, or add to, any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
4.4	The parties will equally share the fees and expenses of the Single Arbitrator.
4.5	The time limits referred to in the Arbitration Procedure may be extended by mutual agreement.
4.6	The decision of the Single Arbitrator will be final and binding upon the parties hereto, and the employee or employees concerned.
ARTICLE 5 - DISCHARGE
5.1	An employee, having attained seniority, may be discharged for:
a)	Use or possession of alcohol, firearms, weapons or drugs (excluding Physician's Prescription) during paid or unpaid working hours on Company property.
b)	Dishonesty and/or theft involving the Company.
5.2	An employee, having attained seniority, may be discharged for violation of Company rules and/or just causes subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
ARTICLE 6 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
6.1	The Company agrees that there will be no lockout and the Union agrees that no official of the Union, nor any employee, will call, sanction, encourage or participate in any strike, sit-down, employee demonstration, or any other organized or concerted interference with the Company's operations during the term of this Agreement. The Union further agrees that if any such collective action takes place, it will do all in its power to instruct its members to return to work. Any employee participating in any such collective action will be subject to discipline including discharge, subject to the right of the employee to lodge a grievance.
6
ARTICLE 7 - SENIORITY
7.1	An employee is considered to have regular employment status when:
(a)	employment is considered or expected to be on a fifty-two (52) weeks-a-year basis; or
(b)	employment is such that an employee completes thirty-six (36) weeks and one hundred and eighty (180) full or part days' service with the Company in a twelve (12) month period.
7.2	An employee shall have no seniority until he has accumulated one hundred (100) working days of employment in a twelve (12) month period. After completion of such service his seniority shall date back to the day one hundred (100) working days preceding the date on which he completed such period of service, at which time his name will be placed on the seniority list.
7.3	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken, all rights forfeited, and there shall be no obligationto rehire when he:
(a)	Voluntarily leaves the employment of the Company, or is dismissed for cause. (An employee who is absent for two (2) consecutive working days without good andproper reason, or withoutfirst securing permission from the Company, may be considered to have left the Company's service <£ his own accord).
(b)	Fails to contact the Company within forty-eight (48) hours of being notified of recall (byphone orfailing contact by certified mail); or subsequently fails to report for work within seven (7) days of being recalled, unless he contacts the Company within seven (7)days of being called and secures permission to start at a later date. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the Company advised, (and the Union should be advised) in writing, of his current address and telephone number, if any. Failure to do so can result in loss of seniority, since the Company's obligation to call in an employee shall cease when it has attempted to contact brim at his last known address.
Is laid off continuously for a period of more than eighteen (18) months.
7.4	An employee transferred from one plant of the Company to another shall retain his seniority, subject to approval by the local union of the plant to which he is transferred. In any case such employee will not be required to serve a probationary period and for purposes of rights within this Agreement, will be considered to be a seniority employee.
7
7.5	Should an employes- who has been promoted or transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit be subsequently transferred back, he shall be credited with all prior seniority but will not be credited with service outside of the bargaining unit.
7.6	In cases of lay-offs, recalls and transfers of one day or more, the Company agrees to give preference to employees according to seniority, provided all other qualifications are comparativelyequal.
7.7	When a seniority classified employee is temporarily transferred to a higher paying job for the convenience of the Company for one day or more, he shall receive the higher rate for all such hours worked, and when temporarily transferred to a lower payingjob he shall not thereby receive a change in his regular hourly rate.
7.8	When it is necessary to reduce the working force, the order of lay-off shall be as follows:
First:	Seasonal probationary employees.
Second:	Seasonal seniority employees.
Third:	Regular employees.
In carrying out the lay-off procedure the following factors will be considered by the Company:
1.	Seniority.
2.	Ability to perform the work.
3.	Proven ability to exercise their seniority for Class 2 jobs and above.
When these factors are.comparatively equal, seniority shall govern.
It is understood that employees on regular classifiedjobs may be required to carry out any function of the operation as directed, but shall not thereby receive a change in hourly rate. Assignment to such temporary work will be made on the basis of senioritywithin the classification.
Recall shall work in the reverse order, for employees with seniority.
ARTICLE 8 - LAY-OFF NOTICE
8.1	Seniority employees being laid off for more ttan five (5) consecutive working
days shall be given (7) calendar days notice except where conditions beyond the
control of the Company prevent it from doing so.
8
8.2	In case the stipulated notice is not given, the seniority employee will receive one week's pay in lieu of (for purposes cf this clause one week'spay equals forty [40] hourspay).
8.3	During the non pack season from January to July, the list of employees who may be laid off will be posted on the board
ARTICLE 9 - POSTING OF VACANCY
9,1	When the Company feels that it is necessary to fill a position on the (Tassiilierl job
list, it shall be posted for seven (7) calendar days to give seniority employees seeking promotions and/or regular status an opportunity during those days to apply to fill the position. [Employees on lay-off shall be informed cf any'} ob postings.] The essential job requirements will be included on the posting. In considering qualified employees for the position, the Company agrees to give preference according to seniority, provided all other qualifications are comparatively equal. The vacancy resulting from the filling of the position posted, if to be filled, shall also be posted within a period of two (2) weeks. If a subsequent vacancy, if to be filled, occurs fern the filling of the second vacancy, it shall also be posted within a period of two (2) weeks. Any subsequent vacancy caused by the filling of the first three (3), shall not be a vacancy for the purpose of this clause. The Company agrees to post necessary positions at a minimum of twice a year, once in April and once in September.
9.2
9.3
9.4
An employee who applies for a posted job and is accepted may not apply to fill a posted position within two (2) months of the promotion.
The Company agrees to furnish the Union with a copy of the job posting, the applicants, and the name of the successful candidate.
A successful candidate of a job posting will be on a trial basis for ten (10) working days, If management rates the employee as successful they will officially take the j ob position on the 11 th working day, and the rate of pay for that position will be in effect. If they fail to meet the job requirements or decline the position by the 10th working day, they will return to their previous job. If the employee decides they no longer want the new job position after the 11th day, they will be placed as a Production Worker and would not have the right to bump back to their previousjob if it was Classified.
It is understood that when filling positions under the job posting procedure, the Company will be consistent each time in the requirements of the same job.
Job Postings to be handled through the mail. Form letter will be sent to the employees two weeks prior to the closing of the Posting.
\£>
9
9.5	The Company agrees that if employees are unavailable for work due to verified
illness, W.S.I.B, absences, or authorized leave of absence, for a period that is or expected to be in excess of thirty (30) worked days, and it is necessary for the Company to replace this individual, then the job will be posted on a temporary basis.
ARTICLE 10 - REPORTING ALLOWANCE
10.1	It is the responsibility of each employee to advise the Company of any changes in address or telephone numbers. Failure of any employee to do so will negate any liability the Company has under this clause. The Company will provide the employee and the Union Office with copies of change of address/phone numbers.
10.2	A seniority employee reporting for work as scheduled, unless given at least eight (8) hours notice not to report, but for whomi no work at his regular job is available, will be offered at least fcur (4) hours employment in any available work at his regularjob rate, or at the Company's option, will be paid four (4) hours time at his regular rate of pay. This provision shall not apply if work is not available because of conditions over which the Company has no control, and the employee has not reported and is available for work at their scheduled starting time.
ARTICLE 11 - CALL-IN PAY
11.1	A seniority employee called back to do work outside his regular working hours to meet an emergency, shall be through when the emergency is over, and will be paid at his regular hourly rate or the appropriate overtime rate, but, in any event not less than four (4) hours pay at his regular hourly rate.
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12.1	In all cases of actual or contemplated absence an employee must secure a leave of absence from the Company.
12.2	The Company will authorize all reasonable requests for leave of absence, but may, at its discretion, request medical evidence to support a claim for leave cf absence due to sickness or accident.
10
12,3	All applications for.leaves of absence of more than two (2) weeks, must be made in writing, and in no case will a leave of absence be granted for an initial period of mere than one (1) month, unless specific evidence of either a Doctor's certificate, or jury duty notice, can be produced to support a claim for a longer initial period. Such claim must be approved by the Company before an initial period of more than one (1) month will be granted.
ARTICLE 13 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS
13.1	Seniority employees elected or appointed to do business for the Union shall be granted the necessary leave of absence not to exceed one (1 ) month, to attend such business, provided the employee gives at least two (2) weeks written notice to the Company. Such leave of absence will be limited to three (3) employees, no more than one (1) from any one department, (or two [2] from a department at the sole discretion of the Plant Manager), subject to the ability of the Company to maintain an efficient work force.
ARTICLE 14 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR POSITION WITH THE UNION
14.1	Seniority employees not to exceed two (2), (no more than one [I] from any one department), who are elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union or a full-time position to represent the U.F. and C. W, with the Canadian Labour Congress a* one of its chartered bodies, shall upon (1) north's written notice be granted, leave of absence without pay, for a period not to exceed one (1) year. Renewal of such leave may be granted, provided application for renewal is in the hands of the Company at least one (1) month prior to the expiration of the leave of absence. An employee will continue to accumulate seniority during such leave of absence, except for the purpose of obtaining benefits (holidays, vacation,pension, group benefits, and etc.).
14.2	Such employees, within one (1) month's written notice of their desire to return to work with the Company, shall, subject to their seniority, providing they can perform the required work, be placed on the job previously held or one at an equal rate of pay. If the employee would not otherwise have retained his previous job and is not placed on a job carrying ai equal rate of pay, he shall, subject to the seniority, be placed on aj ob he can perform.
ARTICLE 15-COURT DUTY
15,1	Seniority employees subpoenaed to perform duty or attend court or a coroner's inquest as a witness will be allowed the necessary time eff to perform this service.
11
The employee will' receive the difference between the fee received from the Crown and his earnings, calculated at eight (8) hours pay at his regular hourly rate for each working day involved, excluding any and all traveling allowances and meal allowances that the Crown shall provide.
ARTICLE 16 - BEREAVEMENT ALLOWANCE
16.1	All employees with seniority shall be entitled to up to three (3) working days off with pay to include the day following the funeral, for the purpose of attending the funeral, in the event of death in the immediate family. (Immediate family shall mean: father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, husband, wife, brother, sister, son, daughter, grandparent, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepparent and step-child).
Employees with seniority who are unable to attend the funeral of a deceased family member shall be entitled to one (1) day off within three days of the death of the family member, provided that satisfactory proof of death can be supplied to the Company.
ARTICLE 17 - SAFETY
17.1	The Ccnpany shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of employees during working hours. Where the nature of the task assigned to an employee requires the use of special safety equipment or clothing other than items of personal wear, such equipment or clothing shall be supplied by the Company and must be worn at all times by those employees so designated.
17.2	If a seniority employee is injured at work and is unable to complete the rest of his
scheduled shift by reason of his injury, he will be paid his regular hourly rate for the balance of that day.
17.3	A copy of each Form 7 (W.S.I.B.) to be given to the Plant Joint Health and Safety Committee. The Company will advise the Union of any employee who is not working due to a W.S.I.B. claim.
17.4	The Company shall make a reasonable effort to provide suitable employment for any employee who is handicapped as a result of an accident or occupational disease suffered during the course of his employment with the Company.
17.5	The Company will comply with applicable Government Occupational Health and Safety Laws and Regulations, and the Joint Health and Safety Committee Charter.
12
ARTICLE 18 - HOURS OF WORK
18.1	This article provides the basis for the calculation of payment for overtime. Overtime shall only be paid to an employee after the following scheduled hours have been worked. For the purpose of computing hours of work for this article, holidays paid in accordance with Article 20 shall be considered as hours worked but there shall be no duplication or pyramiding of overtime payments.
18.2	During the packing season the Company may run production on a three-shift basis. When doing so, the third shift will commence their workweek on Monday night and finish their normal five- day workweek on the shift commencing Friday night and concluding on Saturday morning.
Each employee in Appendix “A” working the above noted shift schedule will be provided with a thirty (30) minute paid lunch break during their shift when working on a three shift basis only.
For the purpose of calculating overtime as per article 18.2 the following will apply to Appendix “A” employees working on the third shift:
“All hours worked on a Saturday” - this will not apply to those employees working on shrift number three whose regular finish time would be Saturday ncrrnrg unless they work more than the normal eight hours in which case they would be- paid at the rate of time and one half their normal straight time hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of eight on the Saturday.
“All hours worked on Sunday” -This valL apply to all three shifts.
18.3	Except as noted in clause 18.5, time and one-half (1/4) the regular hourly rate shall be paid to seniority employees for:
(a)	all hours worked over eight (8) hours in ary one day;
(b)	d over forty (40) hours in any one week;
(c)	all hours worked on Saturday and Sunday;
<d) Double (2) time for all hours worked on Sundays except during the period ' that perishable produce is packed, where time and one-half (V/2) will be paid.
18.4	Wtai operating on a three shift basis as noted in 18.2, time and one half overtime for the third shift will only be paid on Saturdays on hours worked in excess of eight or in other words after the conclusion of the regular workweek.
13
18.5	Overtime immediately preceding or following on from a normal shift will be allocated to the employee(s) working on that particular job subsequent to or previous to the overtime being required. Overtime requiring a separate shift will be allocated to the regular or seniority employee(s) who normally perform the work involved provided there is sufficient work to justify the overtime. Sufficient work shall be deemed to mean work of four (4) hours or more in duration. Subject to the foregoing, where a choice exists between those eligible for overtime, seniority within the classification shall be the determining factor. If no regular or seniority employee(s) within the classification are available, work will be allocated to the other qualified regular or seniority employees, by seniority.
18.6	An employee may be excused from working overtime provided there is a qualified employee wfh. less seniority available.
ARTICLE 19 -WAGES
19.1	Appendix "A" setting out the classification of jobs in the Seniority Employee Wage Schedule and the applicable rates constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
19.2	Within Appendix "A" and “B” when a seniority employee is temporarily transferred to a higher payingjob for the convenience of the Company for one day or more, he shall receive the higher rate for all such hours worked and when returned to his normal job he shall then receive his normal hourly rate for that job.
19.3	Appendix "B'1 and “C” setting out the rates of pay for Maintenance Personnel and Operating Engineers shall constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
20.1
ARTTCLE20- STATIITORYHOEIDAYS
Eligible employees with seniority shall receive pay for:
The day before New Year‘s lay New Year‘s Day Good Friday
Easter Monday VictoriaDay Canada Day
CivicHoliday Labour Day ThanksgivingDay
The day before Christmas Day
ChristmasDay
Boxing Day
14
20.2	Employees must meet all of the following eligibility rules to receive holiday pay
at the rate of eight (8) hours' pay at the regular hourly rate for each such holiday.
(a)	The employee must have obtained seniority in accordance with Article 7,
(b)	The employee must have worked his or her last scheduled day before, and his or her next scheduled day after the holiday and these days must fall within five (5) working days after the holiday, unless an employee vras prevented from so working by reason of absence due to any of the following causes:
(1)	non-industrial sickness (such as sickness having commenced within thirty [30] calendar days prior to the date of observance of each such holiday) or absence evidenced by a certificate from a doctor.
(2)	death in the immediate family of the employee; immediate family as defined in Article 16,1.
(3)	leaves of absence.which are authorized in writing by the employee's supervisor. Where the absence is a matter of extreme urgency, such authorization may be given, during or after the absence.
(c)	Notwithstanding Article 20.2(b), Regular Status employees who complete their last scheduled shift prior to the holiday will receive pay for the holiday providing it falls within ten (10) working days of the last completed shift.
20.3	When an employee with seniority works on any of the above-named statutory holidays, he will receive tine and one-half (1%) his regular hourly rate for all hours worked on such day. In addition, such employees will receive holiday pay (outlined in 20.2), except in the case of an employee vto requests, in lieu of his holiday pay, an additional holiday with pay to be taken during the non-pack period.
APTTrr.F. 21 - VACATIONS
15
21.1	Regular employees shall be entitled to annual vacations with pay in accordance with the following schedule:
Consecutive Years of Service
on Employee's Anniversary	Length of	Rate of
Date of Employment	Vacation	Vacation Pay
(a) One (1) year	2 weeks	4%
(b) Five (5) years	3 weeks	6%
(c) Twelve (12) years	4 weeks	8%
(d) Twenty (20) years	5 weeks	10%
(c) Twenty-six (26) years	6 weeks	12%
21.2	Vacation pay shall be calculated on the basis of the employee's gross earnings for the calendar year previous to the year in which the vacation is earned.
21.3	So as not to interfere with essential work or production, the time of year in which vacations may be taken shall be determined by the Company, and in so scheduling vacations, the Company agrees to allocate vacation times with seniority as a guiding factor, so long as it does not interfere with the normal operating manpower requirements of a particular department.
21.4	Employees must schedule two weeks as required by the Employment Standards Act. The Company recognizes that employees who are or may be on lay-off (minimum of8 weeks in the previous calendar year) may prefer to be paid in lieu of taking time off. The Company is prepared to address this on an individual basis providing it does not interfere with the operation of the business. The above understanding is providing the Company is not in violation of any Employment Insurance Regulation.
APTTrr.F. 22 - DISCKtMINATICN 22.1 The Company agrees to abide by the Ontario Human Rights Code.
-16
ARTICLE 23 - REST PERIODS
23.1	One (1) ten (10) minute rest period will be granted in each half (14) shift as close as possible to the middle of each half (14) shift. Whenever possible, the Company will schedule rest periods as close as is practical to the middle of each half (14) shift, subject to the Company's ability to maintain, at all times optimum productivity and efficiency,
23.2	One (1) thirty (30) minute rest period will be granted to an employee who is scheduled to work in excess of two (2) hours of overtime in a day.
23.3	A five (5) minute wash-up period will be provided at the end of each half (14) shift.
23.4	All employees are entitled to a lunch period of not more than thirty (30) minutes and will punch out and in accordingly. If however, due to an emergency, or breakdown, an employee who is on his lunch break is requested to return to the job, the employee shall receive pay for the entire lunch break period. The employee will continue to be paid when he takes time to eat after completion of emergency work. Payment for lunch period must be authorized and initialed by his Supervisor.
ARTICLE 24 - BTTT ,T ETTN BOARDS
24.1	The Company agrees that the Union has the right to use the Company bulletin board or to erect one bulletin board in an appropriate place in the plant, if that is desired, to be used for the posting of notices of official union business which have been duly approved by the Plant Manager.
ARTICLE 25 - DISMISSED EMPLOYEES
25.1	An employee with seniority who is discharged for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly discharged, will be given an opportunity of meeting with his steward before he is required to leave the premises. If, because of the nature of the offence or situation it is necessary to require the immediate expulsion of sn employee firm the premises, then his steward will be notified as soon as possibleby the Foreman concerned.
17
ARTICLE 26 ■ SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
26.1	(a) A shift differential of thirty-five cents (35j£) per hour will be paid to all
employees with seniority, for all hours worked on a shift starting after 3:30 p,m,
(b)	A shift differential of forty cents (40jf) per hour will be paid to all employees with seniority, for all hours worked on a shift starting after 10:00 p.m.
(c)	A seniority employee who works the majority of his normal working hours after 3:30 p.m. and 10:00 p.m, respectively, shall be entitled to receive the shift premium outlined in 26.1(a) and (b).
(d)	Shift premiums and overtime payments shall not be pyramided or duplicated for the same hours under any of the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 27 - UNION SECURITY
27.1	All 'employees on completion of 100 days of continuous work with the Company, shall, as a condition of employment, authorize the Company to check off Union dues as designated by the Local Union.
United Food and Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175
and upon attaining seniority as defined in Article 7, all new employees shall become members of the Union and shall remain members of the Union in good standing as a condition of continued employment.
The total sum deducted together with a record of those from whom deductions were made and of those from whom deductions were not made, the reason of absence (sickness, lay-off, Lease of absence, or vacation) and amounts thereof will be forwarded to the Financial Secretary of the United Food and Commercial Workers Canada, Local I75 on or before the last day of the current month.
The dues initiation report will be provided in the form of e-mail Iremit@ufcwl75.com) or on computer diskette as well as hard copy of the dues report being attached to the remittance cheque.
27.2	The Company agrees to deduct the regular monthly union dues from wages due and payable to each employee coming with the scope of the bargaining unit in each calendar month. Twice the regular monthly Union dues shall be deducted in any one check-off where the employee was absent or had
insufficient pay in the check-off immediately preceding.
-18-
The required initiation fee will be deducted be the Company from new seniority employees’pay, from which the first dues deduction is made.
The Company will transmit the total amounts so deducted to the Secretary-Treasurer of Local 175 United Food and Commercial Workers Canada, 2200 Argentia Rd,, Mississauga, Ontario, L5N 2K7, on or before the fifteenth 15th ) day of each month following the deduction.
The remittance statement shall be documented by location containing a dues and initiation report which will be provided in the form of e-mail (remit@ufcwl75.com) or on a computer diskette as well as a hard copy of the dues report being attached to the remittance cheque. The information provided shall be on a standard spreadsheet in Excel, Quattro Pro, Lotus or other software program acceptable and adaptable to the Union. The spreadsheet will be in a format provided by the Union and the Company will provide the followinginformation: as known to the Company.
S.I.N.
Employee number if applicable Full name (Last/First/Initials)
Full address, including City and Postal Code Date of hire Rateofpay Classification Total dues deducted Initiations fees deducted Total initiations fees deducted.
The Company will show the amount collected for Union dues on the
employees’ T*4 slip each year,
The Union agrees to save the Company harmless from any action growing out of the agreed deductions and commenced by employees against the company and assumes full responsibility for the disposition of the funds as deducted once they have been remitted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union.
a)
b)
c)
d)
e) 0 g) b)
i)
j)
ARTICLE 28 - GENERAL
-19
28.1	Upon receipt of purchase the Company will contribute one hundred dollars ($100.00) per calendar year toward the purchase of Company-approved safety shoes for all seniority employees in Appendix “A”. The Company will contribute one hundred and twenty dollars ($120.00) per calendar year toward the purchase of Company-approved safety shoes for all employees in Appendix “B” and “C”, Employees covered as per the above will be allowed a one (1) year carry over of the full amount, either one hundred dollars (SlOO.OOor one hundred and twenty dollars ($120.00) as appropriate.
28.2	The Company will contribute up to eighty ($80.00) per year on proof of purchase, towards the purchase of prescription safety glasses for those regular seniority employees required to wear safety glasses in the performance of their duties. Eligible employees may carry over any unused portion, to a maximum of one hundred and sixty ($160.00) over the life of the agreement.
28.3	The Canpany will provide a clothing allowance of ninety dollars ($90.00) per year to employees in Appendix “B” & “C”.
28.4	Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine.
ARTICLE 29 - TOOLS
29.1 An annual tool allowance of two’hundred and five dollars ($205.00) will be paid, upon proof of purchase, to all maintenance personnel in Schedule“B” and in Schedule “C”, at the end of each calendar year if the employee has worked the full year, Employees with. less than one (1) full year of service as a mechanic will receive a reduced amount proportionate to their partial year of service. The Company will also maintain its policy of replacement of employees’ tools broken during normal working operations. Effective March 02, 2006 on annual tool allowance of two hundred and twenty dollars ($220.00) will be paid,
-20-
ARTICLE 30 - UNION BUSINESS
30,1	Stewards may leave their work for the purpose of investigating or settling disputes without loss of pay, subject to the following conditions:
1(a) A steward must receive permission from his Foreman or next responsible person, before leaving his place of work indicating that the request is for union business and to which area of the plant he is going. Before entering another area of the plant, the steward shall advise the Foreman or next responsible person responsible for that area, of his presence there to investigate or settle a dispute.
(b) The time spent by stewards for such purposes may be limited by the
Company if the Company considers it to be excessive.
(c) No payment will be made to a steward for the time spent by him for such purposes unless it is during his normal hours of work.
30.2	A representative of the Union shall be permitted reasonable time to interview an officer or steward of the local union during working hours upon application to the Plant Manager, Plant Superintendent or Production Foreman.
ARTICLE 31 - HEALTH & WET FARE
31.1	The Company agrees to pay on behalf of each regular employee who is on the active payroll and who has worked at least one full day (8 hours) during the month and who has completed the waiting period in Section 31,3, and met other necessary qualifications, 100% of the total premium cost for the month for individual and/or family coverage whichever is applicable for the following benefit plans:
(a)	Supplementary Major Medical
Part	Benefit	per Benefit Year	Reimburse- ment	iTAaAiiiiuiii
A	Hospital: TOod. to private/****	none	80%	none
B	Drug	none	80%	$20,000*
C	Vision**	none	100%	none
D	Supp. Health Care	none	80%	$20,000' '
E	Out-of-Province Emergency	none	100%	$500,000***
21
* the maximum lifetime amount payable applies to the combined eligible expenses incurred under parts B and D for you and each dependent. After the $20,000 lifetime maximum has been reached, an amount of $ 1,000 will be reinstated each year.
** Maximum eligible expenses for eyeglasses/contact lenses - $200 every 2 years, (must be a minimum of 24 months from the date of the last purchase).
*** The maximum lifetime amount payable is $500,000 forthe member and each dependant.
****Eligible expenses for hospital accommodation are limited to $200 for each day of hospitalization.
Termination Age: member's retirement.
(b)	Dental Plan
Part	Benefit	Deductible Reimburse-		
A	Basic	none	80%	$1,000*
B	Endodontics/ Periodontics	none	80%	$1,000*
C	Dentures/ Denture Repairs	none	50%	$1,000*
D	Crown s/Bridgcs	none	50%	$1,000*
The maximum amount payable applies to the combined eligible expenses incurred in a benefit year under E&rtsA, B, C andD for you and each dependant.
Termination Age: member's retirement
Dental Efes Guide: The applicable fee guide is the one in force for general practitioners on the day when and in the province where the expense is incurred or, for expenses incurred outside Canada, in the province of residence of the member.
(c) Life Insurance
		
All Employees		$30,000
Benefit Reduction: upon retirement your basic life insurance reduces as follows:
Earnings in the 12 months before retirement Maximum benefit
Less than $6,000	$1,000
$6,000 but less than $ 10,000	$1,500
$10,000 and over	$2,000
(d) Disability WagePlan Entitlement:
Eligible employees will be paid Short Tenn Disability Benefits based on a number of years of service.
Benefit Formula
22
60% to 100% of earnings based on years of service:
The Kraft Canada Inc. Health plan will not provide coverage for any gaps created by changes io either the provincial or federal government plans.
Chiropractor care: 30 visits per year
31.2	An employee is considered to have regular employment status when:
(a)	Employment is considered or expected to be on a (52) fifty-two weeks-a-year basis; or
b)	Employment is such that an employee completed thirty-six (36) weeks and one hundred and eighty (180) full or part days service with the Company in a twelve (12) north period.
31.3	Waiting periods that apply to Section 31.2 above are as follows:
(a)	Thirteen (13) weeks.
(b)	Thirty-six (36) weeks and one hundred and eighty days (180).
31.4	Pension Plan
Employees are covered under Kraft pension plan “F”
Benefit:
Effective date of ratification- $38.00 per month/per year of service Effective htorii 01,2006 - $39.00 per month/per year of service Effective March 01,2007 - $40.00 per month/per year of service
Any regular status employee upon retirement will be eligible for retirement medical benefits set out by Kraft Benefits program.
-23-
ARTICLE 32 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
32.1	Technological change shall mean any major innovative change in equipment, process or technology instituted in the St. Davids Plant operation,
1(a) Where possible, the Company will provide the Union with three (3) months Notice of Intention to introduce technological change which might result in displacement or reduction of seniority personnel.
(b)	Seniority employees becoming redundant due to technological change shall be eligible for retraining if such training is consistent with the employee's capabilities, to equip them for the operation of such new equipment or procedure, or to qualify for new positions within the bargaining unit. Such retraining will be provided by the Company without loss of pay to the affected employee(s).
(c)	In cases where retraining of seniority employees is not practical, or where other positions within the bargaining unit are not available, the employee(s) shall elect for termination of employment, or shall elect to be placed on the recall list.
ARTICLE 33 - NOTICE OF TERMINATION AND TERMINATION ALLOWANCE
Any full time employee with six (6) months of service or more, whose employment is terminated by the Company as a direct result of closing the plant shall receive severance pay as follows:
with, continuous service of six (6) months to two (2) years - one (1) week's pay.
(b) an additional one (1) week for every year thereafter.
A week's pay consists of forty (40) hours at the employee's straight time hourly rate.
Any employee who accepts severance pay shall forfeit all seniority rights.
For the purposes of this Article, continuous service shall be deemed broken when an employee has quit or been terminated by the Company. The employee will not receive credit for any past service if rehired.
33.2
33.3
33.4
-24-
ARTICLE 34 - CONSULTATION
34.1	On the request of either the Company or the Union, the parties shall meet at least once every two (2) months until this agreement is terminated, for the purpose of discussing issues relating to the workplace which affect the parties or any employee bound by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 35 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
35.1	This Agreement shall become effective as of the second day cf March, 2005 and shall remain in effect up to and including the first day cf March, 2008, and shall automatically renew itself from year to year thereafter,unless written notice of the desire to terminate the Agreement or to amend any portion of any of the terms thereof is given by either party to the other anytime within ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this agreement on the_________Z S_________day of______& us r~______________, 2005.
-25-
A PPENDIX "A "
riagg Job Title	March 2,2005 March 2,2006
6 Warehouse Group Leader	21.38	21.92
5	Line Group Leader	20.70	21.22
Sanitation Group Leader
4	Shipper/Receiver	20,24	20,75
Label Line Lead lard
3	Lift Truck Operator	19.01	19.49
Syrup Mfca:
Had Checker Seam Tester Quality Control
2
1
Process Equipment Cleaner Can Room Attendant Greaser
Lye Unit Operator Cook Room Attendant Raw Produce Inspector Line Checker
Warehouse Quality Control Pyramid Operator Weigh Scale Attendant Label Machine Attendant Empty Can Depalletizer Operator S earner Operator Tray Line Attendant Sleever Operator Sealer Operator
Label Machine Attendant Case Piler
Raw Produce Dumper Can Opener Operator Janitor Pallet Tally Palletizer Operator Filler Bowl Attendant
18.87
18.02
March 2.2007 22.47
21.75
21.26
19.98
19.34
18.47
Unclassified
-26-
APPENDIX "A " (cottt'd)
■Tnh Title	March 2,2005 March 2.2006
Sorter	$17.48	$17.92
Packer
Topper
Can Feeder
Caser Operator
Trimmer
Check Weigher
Etear Machine Attendant
Label Inspector
Filper Attendant
Production Worker
March 2. 20(17
$18.36
-27-
APPENDIX "B"
Class
1(a)
1(b)
2
3
Job Title	March 2.2005
Electrical Group Leader	$27.48
Maintenance Group Leader	$27.08
Electrician “A”	$25.91
Industrial Mechanic (Millwright) $25.52
March 2.2006 $28.17 $27.76 $26.56 $26.16
March 2.2007 $28.87 $28.45 $27.23 $26.82
APPENDIX "C"
Job Title
Chief Engineer
2nd Class Operating Engineer
3rd Class Operating Engineer
March 2,2005
$27.08
$25.63
$24.75
March 2.2006 $27.76 $26.27 $25.37
March 2.2007 $28.45 $26.92 $26.00
28
APPENDIX “D”
Seasonal - Vacation pay
The Company agrees to give all seasonal employees with pro-rated service of five (5) years or more six percent (6%) of their weekly earnings as vacation pay. Pro-rated service shall be calculated by using years of service starting with the employee’s recognized seniority date, multiplied by the number of days worked, multiplied by eight (8) hours, divided by 1900 hours.
Seasonal employees who become Regular employees will have their seniority adjusted on a pro-rated basis for the purpose of vacation entitlement.
ThreeShift Operation
The Company must maintain the right to schedule and assign work as defined in Article 2, however, if the Company finds it necessary to operate on a three-shift basis, the Company agrees to provide 8 hours of work. (Inother words, no loss of pay due to a three shift operation).
O.H.I.P
The Company agrees that if the Provincial Government was to change the present payroll tax to an employee premium, then the Company would maintain the practice as defined in the agreement which expired on March 01, 1991.
Banking ofOvertime
The Company and Union agree that all regular status employees will be allowed to bank a maximum of two (2) weeks ofovertime which they may use to take additional time off. The banked hours may not be used between May 01 and November 30th of any year without the express consent of management. It is understood that employees may elect to use banked hours to cover absences due to illness at any time during the year.
Plant Transfers
The Company agrees to allow interested employees to apply in writing to local plant management for the purpose of expressing interest in job opportunities at other facilities. It is understood that application does not in any way guarantee employee(s) automatic access or preferential treatment to applied for positions and any and all hiring will be at the discretion of local area management.
Seasonal Seniority Employee benefits
a)	The C ompany agrees to allow seasonal seniority employees the opportunity to purchase major medical and/or dental benefits.
b)	The Company agrees to allow seasonal seniority employeesthe opportunityto participate in the Shares Program and the Employee Assistance Program (EAP).
Vacations
a)	The Company and Union agree to allow Regular Status employees who are laid-off a minimum of eight (8) weeks in the previous calendar year to have the option of receiving their vacation pay earned in the previous calendar year in a lump sum payment.
b)	Vacation entitlement will be scheduled by March 01 of each year
and employees must book all but one (1) week of their vacation entitlement by March 01 of each year. Employeeswho so desire may retain a maximum cf one (1) week of vacation entitlement to be used on a day to day basis or as a full week as business needs permit. Employees may schedule all of their entitlement by March 01 if they so choose.
c)	In accordance to Article 21.3, the time of the year in which vacations may not be taken shall be the month os August and September.
-30-
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
UFCW Canada 175 And
KRAFT CANADA INC.
During the negotiations the parties agree to the following:
□ Labour schedule will be implemented on a t ri a I basis commencingNovember 1st 2005 and continue up to July 1st 2006.
a Parties will review and discuss on a by- monthly basis the progress of the labour schedule.
a At the end of the trial period if the trial is successful, the labour schedule process will continue.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this agreement on the‘35ciay of A	.2005.
FOR THE UNION
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN: U.F.C.W. LOCAL 175 -AND-
In view of recent changes to the Ontario Labour Relations Act, and resulting decisions there from, and in view of the parties’ histoiy of amicable Labour Relations, the parties agree to the following:
That neither party shall raise or proceed with a timeliness issue argument regarding “filing for arbitration” without first giving the other party written prior notice of its intent to do so.
Should either party serve such notice on the other party the parties further agree that the final time frame in the Collective Agreement respecting “filing for arbitration” shall then be triggered.
The parties further agree that any Board of Arbitration or single arbitrator shall have full jurisdiction to adjudicate the matter respecting timeliness in light of this agreement and shall not be restricted by the Ontario Labour Relations Act in so doing.
FOR THE COMPANY
ST. DAVIDS - OFFICE
INDEX
ARTICLE	£AGE
1	Recognition........................................1
2	Management Rights..................................2
3	Grievance Procedure................................2
4	Arbitration Procedure..............................4
5	Discharge,.........................................5
6	Strikes and Lockouts...............................5
7	Seniority..........................................5
8	Lay-off Notice.....................................7
9	Posting of Vacancy.................................7
10	Reporting Allowance.............................   8
\[	Call-in Pay........................................8
12	Leave of Absence...................................8
13	Leave of Absence for Union Business................8
14	Leave of Absence for Position vith Union...........9
15	QxrtDuty.........................................  9
\ 6	Bereavement Allowance..............................9
17	Safety...........................................  ^
18	Hues of Work......................................10
19	Wages...........................................  11
20	Designated Holidays...............................11
21	Vacations.,.....................................  12
22	Discrimination....................................13
23	Rest Periods......................................13
24	Dismissed Employees.............................. 13
25	Bulletin Boards...................................13
26	Union Security-......................................
27	Union Business,...................................14
28	Health & Welfare..................................15
29	Technological Change..............................16
30	Notice of Termination & Termination Allowance.....16
31	Consultation......................................17
3 2	Duration of Agreement..............................^
Appendix
MARCH 2,2005 - MARCH 1,2008
BETWEEN:
KRAFT FOODS GROCERY DIVISION ST. DAVIDS-OFFICE
St, Davids, Ontario
AND
UNITED FOOD AN D COMMERCIAL WORKERS CANADA LOCAL 175
{hereinafter referred to as the "Union"}
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
The Ccnpany recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all office and clerical employees at its St, Davids Plant, save and except office supervisor, those above the rank of office supervisor, personnel administration clerk, employees regularly working less than twenty-four (24) hours per week and seasonal employees.
The words "employed1, "employees"or "employeeswith seniority" wherever used in this Agreement shall refer solely to those employees in the bargaining unit defined above and who have seniority in accordance with the provisions of this Collective Agreement.
The words "probationary employee" wherever used in this Agreement shall refer to those employees in the bargaining unit defined above but who do not have seniority in accordance with the provisions of this Collective Agreement.
Persons excluded fizzti the bargaining unit will not perform work normally done by employees in the bargaining unit if performance of such work results in the layoff of employees or prevents the recall of employees.
Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine.
- 2 -
ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.1	The Union recognizes that it is the exclusive function of the Company:
1(a) to maintain order, discipline and efficiency, put into effect, enforce and alter rules and regulations governing the conduct of employees, to determine job rating or classification, the hours of work, work assignments and methods of doing the work, the number of personnel required from time to time and the standards of performance for all employees, except as specifically limited by the provisions of this Agreement;
(b) to hire, retire, promote, demote, transfer, assign, direct, classify, suspend or otherwise discipline or discharge any employees for just cause, subject, however, to the right of the employee concerned to lodge a grievance in the manner and to the extent provided elsewhere in this Agreement;
(c)	to operate and manage its business in all respects and at all times; and without limiting the generality of the foregoing the location of plants and departments, the products to be manufactured, the materials to be used, the schedules of production, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing are solely and exclusively the responsibility of the Company,
ARTICLE 3 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
3.1	Any dispute arising out of the interpretation, application, administration or alleged
violation of this Agreement between any bargaining unit employee and the Company shall be settled in accordance with the following procedure.
Grievances must be submitted within ten (10) working days of the alleged occurrence leading to the grievance.
step number!
The employee in the presence of his steward shall submit a written statement of the grievance dated and duly signed by himself and his steward, to the Office Supervisor. Such written statement shall include a statement of facts upon which the grievance is based, the remedy or correction requested, and the section of the Agreement claimed to have been violated. If the Office Supervisor fails to give a decision within three (3) working days, or if such a decision is not satisfactory to the employee, the employee and the steward shall present the grievance to the Plant Manager within three (3) working days of such failure to settle.
- 3 -
STEP NUMBER 2
A grievance submitted in accordance with the above shall be discussed at a meeting between the Grievance Committee and the Plant Manager or his designate and such other representatives as the Company deems necessary. If the Plant Manager or his designate fails to give a decision within three (3) working days, or if such a decision is not satisfactory, the grievance shall be dealt with at the following step.
STEP NUMBER 3
Failing settlement at Step Number 2, within three (3) working days of such failure to settle, the grievance shall be discussed by the Grievance Committee and a representative of the Union's Head Office and a Head Office Industrial Relations representative appointed by the Company, and such other representatives as the Company deems necessary. If settled, the Grievance Committee and the Head Office Industrial Relations representative shall sign the grievance noting the disposition made.
3.2	Any grievance not submitted within the time limits nor advanced by the grieving party within the time limits provided for each step of the Grievance Procedure shall be deemed to have been dropped.
3.3	The grievances which have not been satisfactorily settled by the Grievance Procedure outlined above, shall be submitted to Arbitration for settlement within ten (10) working days after Section3.1, Step Number 3.
3.4	When the Company has a grievance which it wishes to take up with the Union, it shall present it in a meeting with the Grievance Committee and such a meeting shall be equivalent to Section 3.1, Step Number 2 of the Grievance Procedure outlined above.
3.5	A steward may submit a grievance on behalf of an employee who is unable to do so for reasons of lay-off, leave of absence or sickness, provided that such grievance is approved by the grievor.
3.6	When the Union feels it has a general grievance affecting two (2) or more employees, it shall be presented by the Grievance Committee in a meeting with the Plant Manager as noted in Section 3.1, and such a meeting shall be equivalent to Section3.1, Step Number 2, ofthe Grievance Procedure outlined above.
3.7	The time limits referred to in the Grievance Procedure may be extended by mutual agreement.
3.8	In the event of the dismissal of a seniority employee, a grievance may be submitted at Section 3.1, Step Number 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
- 4
3.9	A Grievance Committee shall consist of not more than two (2) seniority employees who are currently employed by the Company. The Company shall be advised of any change in the Grievance Committee. Committeemen may leave their work for the purpose of investigating or settling disputes, without loss of pay, subject to the following conditions.
(a)	A committeeman must obtain permission fccm his Office Supervisor before leaving his place of work.
(b)	The time spent by committeemen for such purposes may be limited by the Company, if the Company considers it to be excessive.
(c)	No payment will be made to a committeeman for the time spent by him for such purposes, unless it is during his normal hours of work.
3.10	The union steward will be notified in writing of the suspension or dismissal of a seniority employee.
ARTICLE 4 - ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
4.1	If the Company or the Union requests that a grievance as provided above be submitted to arbitration, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, and at the same time, submit a list of five (5) Arbitrators for consideration. Within ten (1 0) working days from the receipt of the list of recommended Arbitrators the other party will either accept one (1) Arbitrator from the list or submit a list of five (5) Arbitrators to the aggrieved party for consideration. If no Single Arbitrator can be agreed upon from this list within ten (10) working days, either party may request the Ontario Minister of Labour to appoint an Arbitrator.
4.2	No person may be appointed as an Arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
4.3	The Single Arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to amend, alter, modify, or add to, any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
4.4	The parties will equally share the fees and expenses of the Single Arbitrator
4.5	The time limits referred to in the Arbitration Procedure may be extended by mutual agreement.
5
4.6	The decision of the'Single Arbitrator will be final and binding upon the parties hereto, and the employee or employees concerned.
ARTICLE 5 - DISCHARGE
5.1	An employee, having attained seniority, may be discharged for:
a)	Use or possession of alcohol, firearms, weapons or drugs (excluding Physician's Prescription) during paid or unpaid working hours on Company property.
b)	Dishonesty and/or theft involving the Company
5.2	An employee, having attained seniority, may be discharged for violation of Company rules and/or other just causes subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
ARTICLE 6 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
6.1	The Company agrees that there will be no lockout and the Union agrees that no official of the Union, nor any employee, will call, sanction, encourage or participate in any strike, sit-down, employee demonstration, or any other organized or concerted interference with the Company's operations during the term of this Agreement. The Union further agrees that if any such collective action takes place, it will do all in its power to instruct its members to return to
work. Any employee participating in any such collective action will be subject to discipline including discharge, subject to the right of the employee to lodge a grievance.
ARTICLE 7 - SENIORITY
7.1	An employee shall be considered on probation and will not be subject to the seniority provisions of this Agreement nor shall his name be placed on the seniority list until after he has completed one hundred (100) full-time working days of employment. After completion of such service, his seniority shall date back to the day one hundred (100) full-time working days preceding the date on which he completed such period of service, and his name will be placed on the seniority list in the appropriate order reflecting such service.
■ 6 -
7.2	An employee shall lose all seniority and shall be deemed to have quit if he:
1(a) Voluntarily leaves the employ of the Company, or is retired.
(b) Is discharged and is not reinstated through the Grievance or Arbitration Procedure.
(c)	Is laid off continuouslyfor aperiod of more than eighteen (18) months.
(d)	Is absent from work without prior permission for two (2) consecutive working days unless for reasons satisfactory to the Company.
(e)	Fails to return to work upon termination of an authorized leave of absence, unless for reasons satisfactory to the Company, or utilizes a leave of absence for purposes other than those for which the leave of absence vas granted.
(f)	Fails to contact the Company within forty-eight (48) hours of being notified of recall (by phone or failing reasonable attempts to make such phone contact within forty-eight (4%) hours of receipt of notice of recall by registered mail at the employee's last known address), or subsequently fails to report to work within seven (7) calendar days after being recalled from lay-off unless the employee contacts the Company within seven (7) days of being notified and secures permission to start at a later date. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the Company advised, (andthe Union advised) in writing, of his current address and telephone number, if any. Failure to do so can result in loss of seniority, since the Company's obligation to call in an employee shall cease when it has attempted to contact him at his last known address.
7.3	In cases of promotion to vacancies (other than to positions outside the scope of
the bargaining unit), the following factors shall be considered:
(a) seniority; and
(b) experience, skill, ability to do the work, qualifications and efficiency.
Where the factors in (b) are comparatively equal, seniority shall govern providing the employees have the qualifications to perform the work in question. If requested by the Union, the Company will supply the Union with the name of the employee promoted. Should an employee who has been promoted or transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit be subsequently transferred back, he shall be credited with all prior seniority for the time of service outside the bargaining unit.
- 7 -
ARTICLE 8 - LAY-OFF NOTICE
8.1	In cases of lay-off and recall from lay-off, the Company agrees to give preference to employees according to seniority, provided all qualifications are comparatively equal.
8.2	Except where acts of God or other events beyond the control of the Company prevent it from so doing, the Company agrees that employees with seniority laid off for more than five (5) working days shall be given five (5) working days’ notice.
8.3	In case the stipulated notice is not given, the employee will receive pay in lieu of notice.
ARTICLE 9 - POSTING OF VACANCY
9.1	When the Company feels that it is necessary to fill a position it shall be posted for three (3) working days to give employees seeking promotion or a lateral move, an opportunity during those days to apply to fill the position. [Employees on lay-off shall be informed cfjob postings]. The essential job requirements will be included on thej ob posting. The vacancy shall be filled in accordance with Article 7.3, and any vacancy resulting from the filling of the position posted in accordance with this Article, but any subsequent vacancy caused by filling the first two vacancies shall not be subject to the posting requirements. It is understood that when filling positions under the job posting procedure the Company will be consistent each time in the requirements ofthe samej ob.
9.2	An employee who applies for a posted job and is accepted may not apply to fill a posted position within six (6) months of the promotion or lateral move. The Company agrees to furnish the Union wiSn. a copy of the job posting and the name of the successful candidate.
9.3	The Company agrees that if employees are unavailable for work due to verified illness, W.S.I.B. absences, or authorized leave of absence, for a period that is expected to be in excess of thirty (30) worked days, and it is necessary for the Company to replace this individual, then the job will be posted on a temporary basis.
- 8 -
ARTICLE 10 - REPORTING ALLOWANCE
10.1	It is the responsibility of each employee to advise the Company of any changes in address or telephone numbers. Failure of any employee to do so will negate any liability the Company has under this clause. The Company will provide the employee and the Union Office vattn copies of change of address/phone numbers.
10.2	A seniority employee reporting for work as scheduled, unless given at least eight (8) hours notice not to report, but for whom no work at his regular job is available,
will be offered at least four (4) hours employment in any available work at his regular job rate, or at the Company's option, will be paid four (4) hours time at his regular rate of pay. This provision shall not apply if work is not available because of conditions over which the Company has no control.
ARTICLE 11 - CAT.T^TWPAV
11.1	A seniority employee called back to do work outside his regular working hours to meet an emergency, shall be through when the emergency is over, and will be paid at his regular hourly rate or the appropriate overtime rate, but in any event not less than four (4) hours pay at his regular hourly rate.
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12.1	The granting of written requests for leave of absence will be at the sole determination of the Company, and the Company may, at its discretion, request medical evidence to support a claim for leave of absence due to sickness or accident.
ARTICLE 13 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE FORIINION BUSINESS
13.1 Seniority employees elected or appointed to do business for the Union shall be granted the necessary leave of absencenot to exceed one (1) month, to attend such business, provided the employee gives at least two (2) weeks written notice to the Company. Such leave of absence will be limited to no more than one (1) employee, at any one time, subject to the ability cf the Company to maintain an efficient work force.
- 9 -
ARTICLE 14 - I L AVE OF ABSENCE FOR POSITION WITH THE UNION
14.1	Seniority employees not to exceed (1), who is elected or appointed to a full-time position wfhthe Union or a full-time position to representthe U,F. and C.W. with the Canadian Labour Congress or one of its chartered bodies, shall upon (1) month's written notice be granted, leave of absence without pay, for a period not to exceed one (1) year. Renewal of such leave may be granted, provided application for renewal is in the hands of the Company at least one (1) month prior to the expiration of the leave of absence. An employee will continue to accumulate seniority during such leave of absence, except for the purpose of obtaining benefits (holidays Tvacation,pension, group benefits, and etc.).
14.2	Such employees, within one (1) month's written notice of their desire to return to work with the Company, shall, subject to their seniority, providing they can perform the required work, be placed on the job previously held or one at an equal rate of pay. If the employee would not otherwise have retained his previous job and is not placed on a job carrying an equal rate of pay, he shall, subject to the seniority, be placed on aj ob he can perform.
ARTICLE 15 - COURT DUTY
15.1	Seniority employees subpoenaed to perform duty or attend court or a coroner's inquest as a witness will be allowed the necessary time offo perform this service. The employee will receive the difference between the fee received from the Crown and his earnings, calculated at seven and one-half (7%) hours' regular hourly rate for each working day involved, excluding any and all allowances and meal allowances that the Crown shall provide.
ARTICLE 16 - BEREAVEMENT ALLOWANCE
16.1	All employees with seniority shall be entitled to up to three (3) working days off with pay to include the day following the funeral, for the purpose of attending the funeral, in the event of death in the immediate family. (Immediate family shall mean:father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, husband, wife, brother, sister, son, daughter, grandparent, grandchild brother-in-law, sister-in-law, step-parent andstepchild).
Employees with seniority who are unable to attend the funeral of a deceased family member shall be entitled to one (1) day off ■within three (3) days of the death of the family member, provided that satisfactory proof of death can be supplied to the Company.
ARTICLE 17-SAFETY
- 10
17.1	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of employees during working hours. Where the nature of the task assigned to sn employee requires the use of special safety equipment or clothing other than items of personal wear, such equipment or clothing shall be supplied by the Company and must be worn at all times by those employees so designated.
17.2	If a seniority employee is injured at work and is unable to complete the rest of his scheduled shift by reason of his injury, he will be paid his regular hourly rate for the balance of that day.
17.3	The Company will comply with applicable Government Occupational Health and Safety Laws and Regulations, and the Joint Health and Safety Committee Charter.
ARTICLE 18 - HOURS OF WORK
18.1	The normal work week for employees and probationary employees shall be seven and one-half (7%)hours in a day during the non-pack season, and eight (8) hours in a day during the pack season. The pack season will be for a twelve (12) week period each year, the specific period to be designated by July 1. The provisions of this paragraph are intended only to provide a basis for calculating overtime and shall not constitute a guarantee of either hours per day or per week, or working schedules.
18.2	Authorized work performed by seniority employees in excess of seven and one-half (7%)hours per day during the non-pack season, and eight (8) hours per day during the pack season or on Saturday shall be paid for at one and one-half (1 Zi) times the employee's regular rate of pay. Double time (2x) the employee's regular rate of pay shall be paid for all hours worked on Sundays during the non-pack season and one and one-half (I/2) times the employee's regular rate of pay for all hours worked on Sundays during the pack season.
18.3	The Company reserves the right to schedule work to be performed over eight (8) hours per day.
18.4	Overtime immediately preceding or following on farm a normal shift will be allocated to the employee(s) working on a particularjob subsequent to or previous to the overtime being required. Overtime requiring a separate shift will be allocated to the employee(s) who normally do the work involved. Subject to the foregoing, where a choice exists between those eligible for overtime, seniority within the classification shall be the determining factor. If no employees within the classification are available, work will be allocated to qualified regular employees by seniority.
18.5
19.1
19.2
19.3
19.4
20.1
20.2
20.3
11
An employee may be excused from working overtime provided there is a qualified employee with less seniority available.
ARTICLE 19 -WAGES
Appendix "A" sets out the classifications of jobs in the Employee Wage Schedule and the applicable rates constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Where an employee temporarily substitutes in or performs on a temporary basis all the duties of a higher paying j ob for one day or more, and such work is not for the purpose of cross training, he shall receive the rate for that job for each day so worked.
Where an employee temporarily substitutes in or performs on a temporary basis the duties of a lower payingjob, he shall not receive the rate for that job.
Article 19.3 shall not apply where an employee agrees to perform all duties of a lower rated job for personal reasons. In either case, the lower rate shall apply immediately.
ARTICLE 20 - DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
An employee shall receive the following holidays vnfli pay:
The day beforeNew Year's Day
New Year's Day
Good Friday
Easter Monday
VictoriaDay
Canada Day
Civic Holiday
Labour Day
Thanksgiving lay
The day before Christmas Day
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
Holiday pay will be computed on the basis of hours the employee would otherwisework had there been no holiday, at his regular straight tine rate of pay.
In order to qualify for holiday pay the employee must complete their last scheduled shift prior to the holiday, providing the holiday falls within ten (10) working days of the last completed shift, unless the employee is prevented from so working by reason of absence due to any of the following causes:
(1)	sickness commencing within thirty (30) calendar days prior to th e date of the observanceof each such holiday;
20.4
20.5
20.6 20.7
21.1
21.2
12
(2)	death in the immediate family of the employee (immediate family being defined in Article 16.1);
(3)	leaves of absence which are authorized in writing by the employee's supervisor.
An employee shall have no entitlement to holiday pay if the holiday falls or is observed during a lawful strike or lockout.
An employee who is required to work on a paid holiday will be paid for authorized work performed on such day at one and one-half (154) times his regular hourly rate of pay for all hours worked. In addition, an employee will be paid holiday pay if he qualifies under Article 20.3.
Any employee scheduled to work on a paid holiday who does not report for work shall forfeit his holiday pay except in eases of absence satisfactory to the Company.
Where the holiday falls during the vacation period of an employee, or on a nonworking day, it shall be added to the end of his vacation period, or by mutual agreement of the Company and the employee involved. The Company may designate another working day that is not later than the next annual vacation of the employee which shall be deemed to be the designated holiday.
ARTICLE 21 - VACATIONS
Employees with seniority shall be entitled to annual vacations with pay in accordance with the following schedule:
Consecutive Years of Service on Employee's Anniversary Date of Employment
(a)	One (1) year
(b)	Five (5) years
(c)	Twelve (12) years
(d)	Twenty (20) years
(e)	Twenty-six (26) years
Length of	Rate of
Vacation	Vacation Pay
2 weeks	4%
3 weeks	6%
4 weeks	8%
5 weeks	10%
6 weeks	12%
Vacation pay shall be calculated on the basis of the employee's earnings for the calendar year previous to the year in which the vacation is earned.
13
21.3	So as not to interfere with essential work or production, the time of year in which vacations may be taken shall be determined by the Company and in so scheduling vacations, the Company agrees to allocate vacation times with seniority as a guiding factor, so long as it does not interfere with the normal operating manpower requirements of a particular department.
ARTICLE 22 - DISCRIMDIATICN
22.1	The Company agrees to abide by the Ontario Human Rights Code.
ARTICLE 23 - REST PERIODS
23.1	One (1) paid ten (10) minute rest period will be granted in each half (‘A) shift as close as possible to the middle of each half (Vi) shift.
23.2	One (1) paid ten (10) minute rest period will be granted to an employee who is scheduled to work in excess of two (2) hours of overtime in a day to be taken at the end of the regular work day before working such overtime.
ARTICLE 24 - DISMISSED EMPLOYEES
24.1	An employee with seniority who is discharged for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly discharged, will be given an opportunity of meeting with his steward before he is required to leave the premises. If, because of the nature of the .offence or situation it is necessary to require the immediate expulsion of an employee from the premises then his steward will be notified as soon as possible by the Office Supervisor.
APTTfT.F. 25 - RTTT.T.F.TTN ROAR PS
25.1	The Company agrees to install a bulletin board in the office to be used for the posting of notices of official union business which have been duly approved by the Plant Manager.
- 14 -
ARTICLE 26 - UNION SECURITY
26.1	All employees on completion of 100 days of continuous work with the Company, shall, as a condition of employment, authorize the Company to check off Union dues as designated by the Local Union.
UnitedFood and Commerciid Workers Canada, Local 175
and upon attaining seniority as defined in Article 7, all new employees shall become members of the Union and shall remain members of the Union in good standing as a condition of continued employment.
The total sum deducted together with a record of those from whom deductions were made and of those from whom deductions were not made, the reason of absence (sickness, lay-off, leave of absence, or vacation) and amounts thereof will be forwarded to the Financial Secretary of the United Food and Commercial Workers Canada, Local 175 on or before the last day of the current month.
The dues initiation report will be provided in the form of e-mail ('remit@ufcwl75.com) or on computer diskette as well as hard copy of the dues report being attached to the remittance cheque.
26.2	The Company agrees to deduct from the regular monthly union dues from wages due and payable to each employee coming with the scope of the bargaining unit in each calendar month. Twice the regular monthly Union dues shall be deducted in any one check-off where the employee was absent or had insufficient pay in the check-off immediately preceding,
The required initiation fee will be deducted be the Company fern new seniority employees’pay, from which the first dues deduction is made.
The Company will transmit the total amounts as deducted to the secretary-Treasurer of Local 175 United Food and Commercial Workers Canada, 2200 Argentia Rd., Mississauga, Ontario, L5N 2K7, on or before the fifteenth ( 15th) day of each month following the deduction.
The remittance statement shall be documented by location containing a dues and initiation report which will be provided in the form of e-mail (remit@ufcwl75.com) or on a computer diskette as well as a hard copy of the dues report being attached to the remittance cheque. The information provided shall be on a standard spreadsheet in Excel, Quattro Pro, Lotus or other software program acceptable and adaptable to the Union. The spreadsheet will be in a format provided by the Union and the Company will provide the following information: as known to the Company.
15
a)	S.I.N.
b)	Employee mfber if applicable
c)	Full name (Last/First/Initials)
d)	Full address, including City and Postal Code
e)	Date of hire
f)	Rateofpay
g)	Classification
h)	Tbtal dues deducted
i)	Initiations fees deducted
j)	Total initiations fees deducted.
The Company will show the amount collected for Union dues on the employees’ T-4 slip each year.
The Union agrees to save the Company harmless from any action growing out of the agreed deductions and commenced by employees against the company and assumes full responsibility for the disposition of the funds so deducted once they have been remitted to the	Secretary-Treasurer	of the Union.
ARTICLE 27 - UNION BUSINESS
27.1	Stewards nay leave their work for the purpose of investigating or settling di sputes without loss of pay, subject to the following conditions:
(a)	A steward must receive permission fern his immediate supervisor or next responsible person, before leaving his place of work, indicating that the request is for union business.
(b)	The time spent by stewards for such purposes may be limited by the Company if the Company considers it to be excessive.
(c)	No payment will be made to a steward for the time spent by him for such purposes unless it is during his normal hours of work.
27.2	A representative of the Union shall be permitted reasonable time to interview an officer or steward of the local union during working hours upon applicationto the Plant Manager or Office Supervisor.
*0
16
ARTICLE 28 - HEALTH & WELFARE
28.1	The Company agrees to pay on behalf the each regular employee who is on the active payroll and who has worked at least one fill day (8 hours) during the month and who has completed the waiting period in Section 31,3, and met other necessary qualifications. 100% of the total premium cost for the month for individual and/or family coverage whichever is applicable for the following benefit plans:
(a)	Supplementary Major Medical
Part	Benefit	per Benefit Year	Reimburse- ment	irjjiAiiiiuiii
A	Hospital: Ward to private/****	none	80%	none
B				$20,000”
C			100%	
D	HaUh Care	none	80%	$20,000*
E	Out-of-Province Emergency	none	100%	$500,000***
* , ,
the maximum lifetime amount payable applies to the combined eligible expenses incurred
under parts B and D for you and each dependent. After the $20,000 lifetime maxirrun has been reached, an amount of $ 1,000 will be reinstated each year.
** Maximum eligible expenses for eyegiasses/contac! lenses • $200 every 2 years, (must be a minimum of24 months from the date ofthe last purchase).
*** The maximum lifetime amount payable is $500,000 for the member and each dependant.
****Eligible expenses for hospital accommodation are limited to $200 for each day of hospitalization.
Termination Age: member's retirement,
Dental Plan
- 17 -
(b)	Dental Plan
Part	Benefit	Deductible per Benefit Year	Reimburse- ment	Maximum
A	Basic	none	80%	$1,000"
B	Endodontics/ Periodontics	none	80%	$1,000*
C	Dentures/ Denture Repairs	none	50%	$1,000*
D	Crowns/Bridges	none	50%	SI.000*
* The maximum amount payable applies to the combined eligible expenses incurred in a benefit year under Ebrts A, B, C and D for you and each dependant.
Termination Age: member's retirement
Dental Fee Guide: The applicable fee guide is the one in force for general practitioners on the day when and in the province where the expense is incurred or, for expenses incurred outside Canada, in the province of residence of the member.
(c)	Life Insurance
Class ofMembers	Benefit Formula	Maximum Benefit
All Employees		$30,000
Benefit Reduction: upon retirement your basic life insurance reduces as follows:
Earnings in the 12 months before retirement Maximum benefit Less than $6,000	$ 1,000
$6,000 but less than $10,000	$1,500
$10,000 and over	$2,000
(d)	Disability Wage Plan
Entitlement:
Eligible employees will be paid Short Term Disability Benefits based on a number of years of service.
Benefit Formula
60% to 100% of earnings based on years of service:
The Kraft Canada Inc. Health plan will not provide coverage for any gaps created by changes in eitherthe provincial or federal government plans.
Chiropractor care: 30 visits per year
- 18
28.2	An employee is considered to have regular employment status when:
(a)	Employment is considered or expected to be on a (52) fifty-two weeks-a-year basis, OR
(b)	Employment is such that an employee completed thirty-six (36) weeks and one hundred and eighty (180) full or part days service with the Company in a twelve (1 2) month period.
28.3	Waiting periods that apply to Section 28.2 are as follows:
(a)	Thirteen (1 3) weeks.
(b)	Thirty-six (36) weeks and one hundred and eighty days (180).
28.4	Pension Plan
Employees are covered under Kraft pension plan “F”
Benefit:
Effective date of ratification - $38,00 per month/per year of service Effective March 01,2006 - $39.00 per month/per year of service Effective March 01,2007 - $40.00 per month/per year of service
Any regular status employee upon retirement will be eligible for retirement medical benefits set out by Kraft Benefits program.
ART 1CI I 29 - TICHNOIOCICM CHANGE
29.1	Technological change shall mean any major innovative change in equipment, process or technology instituted in the St. Davids Office operation.
(a) Where possible, the Company will provide the Union with three (3) months Notice of Intention to introduce technological change which might result in displacement or reduction of seniority personnel.
- 19 -
(b)	Regular employees becoming redundant due to technological change shall be eligible for retraining if such training is consistent vifti the employee’s capabilities, to equip them for the operation of such new equipment or procedure, or to qualify for new positions within the bargaining unit. Such retraining will be provided by the Company without loss of pay to the affected employee(s),
(c)	In cases where retraining of regular employees is not practical, or where other positions within the bargaining unit are not available, the employee(s) shall elect for termination of employment, or shall elect to be placed on the recall list.
ARTICLE 30 - NOTICE OF TERMINATION AND TERMINATION ALLOWANCE
30.1	Any full time employee with six (6) months of service or more, whose employment is terminated by the Company as a direct result of closing the plant shall receive severance pay as follows:
(a)	with continuous service of six (6) ircnths to two (2) years - one (1) week’s pay.
(b)	an additional one (1) week for every year thereafter.
30.2	A week’s pay consists of forty (40) hours at the employee’s straight time hourly rate.
30.3	Any employee who accepts severance pay shall forfeit all seniority rights.
30.4	For the purposes of this Article, continuous service shall be deemed broken when an employee has quit or been terminated by the Company. The employee will not receive credit for any past service if rehired.
ARTICLE 31 - CONSULTATION
31.1	On the request of either the Company or the Union, the parties shall meet at least once every two (2) months until this agreement is terminated, for the purposes of discussing issues relating to the workplace which affect the parties or any employee bound by this Agreement.
20 -
ARTICLE 32 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
32.1 This Agreement shall become effective as ofthe second day of March, 2005 and shall remain in effect up to and including the first day <£ March, 2008 and shall automatically renew itself firm year to year thereafter, unless written notice of the desire to terminate the Agreement or to amend any portion of any of the terms thereof is given by either party to the other anytime within ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this agreanait on the ___________Z. S_____________day of_______<g£cf f~__________, 2005.
FOR THE UNION
- 21 -
APPENDIX "A"
CLASSIFICATION AND RATES OF PAY
Job Title
Accounting Clerk (Systems) Payroll Clerk Accounting Clerk Cost Clerk
Receptionist/Stock Clerk
March 2.2005 $20.05 $20.05 $19.55 $19.55 $19.55
March 2;. 2006 $20.56 $20.56 $20.04 $20.04 $20.04
March 2.2007 $21.07 $21.07 $20.54 $20.54 $20.54
- 22 -
APPENDIX"B"
O.H.T.P.
The Company agrees that if the Provincial Government was to change the present payroll tax to an employee premium, then the Company would maintain the practice as defined in the agreement which expired on March 01,1991,	’
Flexible WOrk Hours
Management will continue to operate on a flexible working day, providing we can meet the deadlines and reporting schedules that are set by the General Office or in other words allow us to maintain proper operation of the business.
Reeular Status Employees
The Company agrees that Lisa Pierson will maintain her status as a regular employee.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN: U.F.C.W. LOCAL 175 -AND-
In view of recent changes to the Ontario Labour Relations Act, and resulting decisions there from, and in view of the parties’ history of amicable Labour Relations, the parties agree to the following:
That neither party shall raise or proceed with a timeliness issue argument regarding “filing for arbitration” without first giving the other party written prior notice of its intent to do so.
Should either party serve such notice on the other party the parties further agree that the finaltime frame in the Collective Agreement respecting “filing for arbitration” shall then be triggered.
The parties further agree that any Board of Arbitration or single arbitrator shall have full jurisdiction to adjudicate the matter respecting timeliness in light of this agreement and shall not be restricted by the Ontario Labour Relations Act in so doing.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION