SOURCE
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
DATED THIS jO day of the month of' ~7oa;5 /£7<7^ •
BETWEEN:	Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited
P. O. Box 8114, Station "A" Halifax, Nova Scotia B3K 5L8
AND:	Energy & Chemical Workers Union
Local 40
c/o 111 Basinview Drive Bedford, Nova Scotia B4A 3E8
ooxn 4- o y
INDEX OF ARTICLES
1.	OBJECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT
2.	BARGAINING UNIT
3.	MUTUAL RIGHTS AND BENEFITS
4.	UNION SECURITY
5.	UNION REPRESENTATION
6.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.	ARBITRATION
8.	SENIORITY
9.	PROMOTIONS, LAY-OFFS, REHIRINGS
10.	DISCHARGE
11.	PAID HOLIDAYS
12.	PAID VACATION
13.	HOURS OF WORE AND OVERTIME
14.	RULES GOVERNING DRIVER SALESPERSONS
15.	ROUTE CUTTING
16.	WAGES
17.	UNIFORMS
18.	ABSENCES
19.	BULLETIN BOARDS
20.	MEDICAL EXAMINATION
21.	SECURITY PLAN
22.	SICKNESS BENEFITS
23.	GENERAL
24.	SAFETY
25.	SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
26.	DURATION OF AGREEMENT
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
DATED THIS
day of the month of
BETWEEN:
Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited P. 0. Box 8114, Station "A" Halifax, Nova Scotia
AND:
Chemical Workers Union
Sasinview Drive Bedford, Nova Scotia B4A 3E8
hereinafter referred to as the "Union"
WITNESSETH that the Employer and the Union hereby mutually agree as follows:
ABTTC.LE 1 - OBJECTS OE THTS AGREEMENT:
A.	The intent and purpose of this Agreement shall be to promote and improve industrial and economic relations in the industry, to establish and maintain a high degree of discipline and efficiency and to set forth herein the basic agreements covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment which will render justice to all.
B.	The parties hereto desire to cooperate in establishing and maintaining proper and suitable conditions in the Company which will tend to secure uniform and equitable terms of employment satisfactory to Employer and employees, to provide methods for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes which may arise between them, and foster goodwill, friendly relations and better understanding between the parties.
ARTICLE 2 - RARCATNTNC UNTT:
A.	The Employer recognizes the Union to be the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees hereinafter defined to be in the bargaining unit, and those employees shall be all employees of the Employer excluding supervisors, employees of the rank of foreperson or above, salespersons other than driver salespersons, office staff and those excluded by Section 1 (2) (a) and (b) of the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia.
B.	Forepersons and those above the rank of forepersons will not perform bargaining unit work except:
1.	In emergency conditions
2.	For the purpose of demonstration or training
3.	To relieve an employee for breaks
4.	When the regular employee is absent and no replacement is available
Sales supervisors shall continue to perform their normal sales and merchandising activities provided, however, that such activities shall not be extended by the Company so a$ to cause the lay-off of any bargaining unit employee.
c.	There will be no contracting out of Wholesale Routes,
Long Haul, Bulk Tank or Garage during the life of this agreement. This section is not retroactive and applies to work being currently performed by the bargaining unit.
ARTTCT.F T - MUTUAL RIGHTS AND BENEFITS:
A.	No employee shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written contract which may limit, alter, modify, or conflict with the stipulations of this Agreement.
B.	There shall be no lockout by the Employer and no strike by the Union during the term of this Agreement.
C.	In administering this Agreement, the Union and the Company shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith, without discrimination and in a manner consistent with this Agreement.
D.	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Employer to manage and ^ontro1 the Emp^yer's operations and without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing:
1.	To maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
2.	To hire, discharge, transfer, promote, classify, demote, discipline, suspend, layoff, transfer and assign work to employees and to introduce new or improved methods or facilities: provided that a claim that an employee has been discharged, or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided;
3.	Generally, to manage, control, continue, discontinue in whole or in part, the Employer's operations and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number of employees, schedules of production, kinds and
locations of machines and processes to be used, and the expansion, limitation or cessation of operations.
4.	The Employer shall retain at all times the right to maintain a sufficient qualified workforce for the proper efficient operation of the Company.
5.	Nothing in this management rights clause shall detract from the rights of management as exercised in the past.
6.	However, the exercise of the functions of Management will be consistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY:
A.	All employees covered by this agreement shall at the time of hiring sign a dues check off form for the union as a condition of employment.
B.	Monthly union dues shall be deducted from the pay of any employee who has completed a probationary period of twenty-five (25) working days and has worked at least five (5) days in the month. The amount to be deducted shall be that determined by a resolution of the Union and such resolution to be provided to the Company.
The dues collected shall be forwarded to the Secretary Treasurer of the local union, by the tenth day of the month following the period for which deductions have been made.
The Company shall include a list in alphabetical order showing the names of the employees from whom deductions have been made and the total amount deducted from each employee.
c. The Company shall deduct monthly union dues from high school, college and university students of two hours wage per month. Students will be hired from the period of April 15 through to September 15 of the same year. Students, upon completing 120 working days in a calendar year, will join the Union and his/her seniority date will be calculated on the 121st working day for that individual.
If a student does not return to school, and is not laid off, the seniority date will be assigned on the 26th working day after September 15. The student, at this point, must go to the unclassified pool if there is an opening.
The Company shall deduct initiation fees along with monthly union dues and remit same to the Union.
ARTICLE 5 - UWTOW REPRESENTATION:
A.	The Employer acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or elect a Shop Steward for the employees, and if the operations are such as cannot be handled by one steward only, additional stewards may be appointed or elected.
B.	The Employer shall recognize a Union Grievance Committee comprised of two (2) members, both of whom shall be employees of the Company and appointed by the Union.
c. The Union agrees to advise the Employer in writing of the names of the Shop Steward(s) and members of the Grievance Committee and of any subsequent change in the names thereof.
D.	The Union Representative shall with the permission of the Employer be permitted to enter the Employer's premises on Union business provided he/she does not unduly interfere with the operations or progress of the work.
E • (1) For matters arising within the Bedford Plant, the Shop Steward(s) shall be allowed the necessary time off with pay to investigate and settle grievances on the premises. They shall be free to discharge their duties without fear that their relations with the Company may be affected. The Shop Steward shall act in good faith and not abuse these rights and shall make honest attempts to settle grievances.
E.	(2) For matters arising outside the Bedford Plant, the Employer agrees to provide compensation to the Shop Steward(s) who are required to attend personally, at one of the branches for union business. This compensation will include travel time and time spent on the Employer's premises. It is mutually agreed, however, that the Employer's obligation to provide such compensation shall be limited to a maximum amount equal to 200 hours (at regular rates) in any given calendar year.
F.	A Shop Steward shall be an employee of the Employer. There shall be.no discrimination against a Shop Steward for Union activities.
G.	An employee shall have the right to have his/her Shop Steward present at any meeting with a supervisor when such meeting concerns disciplinary action for that employee. In the absence of the regular Shop Steward, the Chief Shop Steward may attend.
ARTICLE f, - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
A. (1) The parties to this Agreement recognize that within the Grievance Procedure there lies the means for resolution of
differences of interpretation or violation or alleged violation of any one of the stipulations of this Agreement or working conditions by the Employer or the employees who are covered by this Agreement.
(2)	The Union may file a grievance on behalf of all employees or any restricted number of employees or on behalf of an individual employee where the Union believes there has been violation of the Collective Agreement affecting an employee or a group of employees. Such grievance may be filed directly at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
FIRST STEP:	'
B. An attempt will be made between the shop steward and the employee, with the department supervisor to settle the matter verbally.
SECOND STEP;
c. If this attempt is unsuccessful, a grievance shall be submitted in writing to the department supervisor within ten
(10)	working days of the day the matter of the grievance occurred. The supervisor shall then meet with the Steward and employee and a decision shall be rendered within five (5) working days of receipt of the grievance.
THIRD STEP:
D. Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement at step two, the Union shall within five (5) working days, submit the grievance to the manager or his representative who shall then meet with the grievance committee and render a decision within five (5) working days. The grievance committee may have the assistance of the National Representative of the Union at this stage.
FOURTH STEP:
E.	Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement, the grievance may within ten (10) days then be referred to an arbitrator in accordance with Article 7 of this Agreement.
F.	Any grievance not submitted within the time limits provided for in steps one, two or three shall automatically expire: however, the time limits may be extended by mutual agreement of both parties.
ARTICLE 7 - ARRTTRATTON:
A.	No matter may be submitted to an Arbitrator unless settlement thereof has been attempted through the Grievance Procedure set forth in Article 6.
B.	The Employer and Union shall agree on an Arbitrator within four (4) days following the notice of Arbitration given by one or the other party.
C.	Should either party refuse to agree on an Arbitrator, such appointment may be made by final and binding decision of the Nova Scotia Minister of Labour.
D.	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be given within fourteen (14) days following the hearing and shall be final and binding on both parties. It is understood, however, that the Arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any, decision inconsistent with the stipulations of this Agreement, nor to delete, alter, or modify any part thereof, provided however, the Arbitrator may alter any discipline imposed by the Company, including altering a discharge to a suspension if the Arbitrator deems it just.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY:
A. Seniority shall be defined as the length of continuous employment with the Company while a member of the bargaining unit.
B. Seniority rights shall be established separately for:
(1)	Bedford Milk Division & Ice Cream Division
(2)	Bulk Tank Graders
(3)	Haulers
(4)	Truro Distribution Centre
(5)	Kentville Distribution Centre
(6)	Annapolis Distribution Centre
(7)	Middleton Distribution Centre
(8)	Yarmouth Distribution Centre
(9)	Shelburne Distribution Centre
(10)	Bridgewater Distribution Centre
(11)	Garage Workers - Bedford
(12)	Spread Plant - Middleton
(13) Merchandisers - Bedford - Full Time and Part Time
All branches except for (2), (3), (11), (12) and (13) shall have two seniority groups:
(A)	Drivers and Driver-Salespersons
(B)	All other employees
Seniority in all cases is to be calculated from the date of acquisition by Farmers or at the date of completion of the probationary period as outlined in paragraph C, whichever is the latter.
This section B shall not be construed to mean that unskilled employees shall be promoted into jobs requiring special qualifications.
C.	The seniority of each fulltime employee covered by this Agreement shall be established after a probationary period of twenty-five (25) working days upon completion of which seniority shall be calculated from the day the employee was 'hired.
Employees hired as unclassified union workers will have their seniority assigned on the 26th day worked during their probationary period so as to protect any person hired the same day as a fulltime employee. If during the probationary period the unclassified employee is accepted on a posted position, their seniority date will be their date of hire.
D.	An employee's seniority shall be forfeited for the following reasons:
(1)	If he/she voluntarily resigns;
(2)	If he/she is discharged for just cause:
(3)	If he/she has been absent for five (5) working days without notifying the Employer, or without reasonable excuse
E.	(l) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, an employee unable to work because of proven illness or injury shall accumulate and retain seniority rights. When such employee returns to work within twelve (12) months, he/she shall have his/her same job, provided he/she is able to perform the work.
If upon discussion between the employee, his/her medical doctor, and the Employer, it is obvious that the employee cannot return to his/her same job within the twelve (12) month period, the position will be posted, upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
. (2) The accumulation and retention of seniority rights while an employee is unable to work because of proven illness or injury shall not entitle the employee to pyramid benefits.
(3)	A medical Doctor's certificate shall constitute sufficient proof of illness or injury. It is clearly understood that a false report of illness may be cause for discipline up to and including discharge.
(4)	(i) If an employee has been absent from work for less than twelve (12) months, they will be eligible to receive benefits under Article 12, 22 and 23 F.
(4)	(ii) If an employee has been absent from work for 12 months or longer, they will not be eligible for benefits under Article 12, 22 and 23 F. When an employee has returned to work for a period of 60 calendar days, they will then be eligible to receive benefits under Article 12, 22 and 23 F.
It is clearly understood:
1.	That the returning employee does not have to repeat his/her probationary period, as per Article 8.
2.	That an employee's seniority accrues through the period mentioned in 4(i) and 4(ii) above.
3.	If during the sixty day period mentioned above an employee is absent through illness, he/she shall be eligible to receive a sick day(s) as per the provisions of Article 22.
4.	An employee shall not be eligible to accumulate benefits under Article 12, 22 and 23 F during their absence of more than twelve months.
F.	An employee who is laid off shall retain his/her seniority rights for a period of twelve months and if he/she is ill when called back to work, shall fall under "E" of this Article 8.
G.	An employee who is promoted out of the bargaining unit shall retain his/her seniority rights for a period of 6 months, said period to be included in the seniority rating, in the case of demotion, voluntary return to the bargaining unit or abolishment of the position.
H.	The Company agrees to post seniority lists by seniority group. The lists will be posted at the conclusion of each fiscal quarter i.e. end of January, April, July and October. It is the responsibility of all employees to immediately notify the Company of any errors in the listings. The Union is to receive copies plus a master list showing Company seniority.
I.	Casuals shall not attain seniority and shall not be subject to the terms of this Agreement. Summer students shall attain seniority in accordance with provisions of Article 4. Casuals and summer students shall be used to replace employees who are on vacation, who are sick or injured, when there are insufficient volunteers for overtime, and to cover leaves of absence. Casuals and summer students shall be covered by the provisions of the Nova Scotia Labour Standards Act.
J.	A new employee, acquiring seniority after the required probationary period, shall become an unclassified Union worker and shall draw the rate of pay for that designation until such time as that employee has successfully bid on a job. There will be a maximum of five (5) such employees unless this number is changed by mutual agreement of the Union and Company.
(4)	A laid-off person may not have the right to bump
a trades person unless he/she is so qualified. This means the junior person referred to in 2 and 3 above would have the right to bump the junior non-trades person.
(5)	Employees who have bumped shall be reinstated to their former position if such becomes available within one year from the date of bumping. All other such bumps shall likewise be reinstated.
K.	(l) Full time employees shall exercise their 'seniority rights as per Article 9(J) 2(a)(b) & 3 in full time positions before displacing a part time merchandiser.
(2)	In the event of a layoff, part time merchandisers shall exercise their seniority rights to bump the most junior part time merchandiser and shall not displace full time employees.
(3)	In the case of a full time employee who moves into a part time merchandiser position he/she shall be entitled to only the provisions of the Collective Agreement which pertain to part time merchandisers while working in the part time merchandiser position.
L.	If an employee's job is eliminated and he/she is transferred, and if the same job is reopened within a year, that employee shall be given the first opportunity to take the job. The onus is on the employee to make management aware of his/her interest in returning to his/her former job.
M.	Any employee who feels that he/she has been unjustly dealt with in the above matters may have recourse to the grievance procedure set out in Article 6 of this Agreement.
N.	Positions of full time bargaining unit employees on layoff will not be filled by casuals or students so as to displace the bargaining unit members. It is clearly understood that this will in no way preclude the management from meeting customer demand.
O.	Unclassifieds or persons on layoff must indicate their desire to work by calling the Company on a daily basis. A predetermined time and phone number to call will be made available to those individuals involved.
Unclassifieds who refuse three (3) requests for work within a period of six (6) months, will be subject to dismissal.
ARTICLE 9 - PROMOTIONS. LAY-OFFS. REHIRING AND JOB OPENINGS I
A.	Vacancies, new positions and promotions within the bargaining unit shall be filled on the basis of seniority, provided the senior applicant has the ability to qualify to perform the job.
A posting shall not be required if circumstances result in a department having the same number of employees or fewer in number, If a fewer number in a classification is needed, the junior employee in that classification, within that department, shall be reclassified, upon mutual 'agreement between the Company and the Union.
B.	(1) Subject to sub-section (2) below, announcements of openings for all jobs within the bargaining unit will be posted on the bulletin boards for a period of five (5) full working days prior to the filling of the job vacancy. Employees desiring consideration in the filling of the job vacancy shall signify their desire by applying in writing to the appropriate manager. The applicant i may request a signed receipt for his/her job bid. All openings shall be awarded within ten (10) working days of the date of removal of the job posting.
Within five (5) working days of the removal of the job posting, the senior applicants, to a maximum of two (2) persons, shall be allowed a familiarization period of two (2) days each to determine their desire for the job. Their decision is to be made by the end of the second day in each case.
Ability to perform the job will be determined by appropriate familiarization or training period.
B. (2) There shall be one posting of a vacancy resulting from the posting of the original opening. The vacant position which is available at that point will be awarded to the most senior volunteer from that department provided he/she has the ability to qualify to perform the job.
C.	Employees accepted by management on a posted job who fail to qualify within twenty-five (25) working days shall be returned to their former job. The qualifying period may be extended by mutual agreement.
D.	Any successful job bidder shall be paid 90% of the full rate during the training period.
E.	(1) Successful bidders shall be placed on their awarded jobs within a period not to exceed eight (8) weeks from the date the position was awarded.
an
(2)	A successful bidder shall not bid on any other posting for a period of six (6) months.
F.	Jobs shall not be considered vacant if an employee is
absent through sickness, injury or authorized leave. If it is known that an employee is to be absent for more than twenty-five (25) working days, the staff within the department will be canvassed, with the most senior employee applying being assigned to the work provided retraining is not necessary for that person or his/her replacement. Upon completion of the temporary assignment, the employee shall be returned to his/her former job.	,
G.	Where a senior applicant does not receive the position applied for, he/she shall be able to request of the appropriate manager the reason why his/her application was refused.
H.	A job posting shall show:
(1)	The classification of the job
(2)	The current days and hours of work
(3)	The salary
(4)	The shift premium (if applicable)
I.	Absent employees may contact the personnel department or shop steward for information on current job openings.
J.	(1) In the event of a lay-off, the Employer agrees that employees shall be laid-off in the reverse order of their seniority. The employees shall be recalled to work in order of their seniority.
(2) (a) When a lay-off is to occur within a department, the junior person in the department shall be the person to receive the lay-off notice, provided the remaining employees have the ability to perform the work. A short familiarization period shall be granted.
(b) In the case of a person who is laid-off, that employee may exercise his/her seniority by bumping the junior employee in their seniority group, provided he/she has the ability to perform the work. A short familiarization period shall be granted.
Where necessary in J(2) (a) & (b) read plural for singular.
(3)	In the case of an employee who is laid-off and who is the junior person within his/her seniority group, that employee may exercise his/her seniority by bumping the most junior employee in his/her branch, provided he/she has the ability to perform the work. If he/she is already the junior employee in his/her own branch, he/she may exercise his/her seniority by bumping the most junior employee of the employer provided he/she has the ability to perform the work.
ARTICLE 10 ~ DTSCHARCF,
A.	In all cases involving the discharge of an employee, the Employer must immediately notify the discharged employee, in writing, of his/her discharge and the reason therefore.
B.	Any discharged employee must be paid, in full, all wages owed to the employee by the Employer, including earned vacation pay, if any, within ten (10) working days from the date of discharge and after any legal liability to the Employer has been paid or satisfied.
c. A claim, by an employee, that the employee has been unjustly discharged from employment shall be submitted in writing as a grievance and presented to the Manager or the responsible representative, within five (5) working days from date of discharge and such grievance will be accepted at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 11 - PAID HOLIDAYS
A.	New Years Day, Good Friday, the day observed as the Queen’s Birthday, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and Heritage Day if proclaimed a legal holiday, shall be paid holidays, provided nevertheless that if because of paid holidays, three off days occur consecutively, one of such off days as determined by the Employer shall be worked as a regular working day. The Civic Holiday shall be that day which is defined in a "Letter of Understanding" signed by the Union and Employer and posted at each location.
B.	Any employee absent without good cause satisfactory to the Company on the working day preceding or the working day following any of these holidays will not receive the benefit of the provisions of this Article 11 or be permitted to use the sick days referred to in Article 22, Section A. For the holiday in question, when an employee is required to work on, any of the above mentioned holidays, the employee shall be remunerated at the rate of double time for the work performed on such paid holiday in addition to the holiday pay.
c. The Company agrees that should a paid holiday occur on an employee’s day off, such employee shall be compensated with an additional day’s pay or a day off in lieu of the holiday, the choice between the day’s pay or the day off to be at the discretion of the employee. If a day off is chosen, such day off must be scheduled within four months after the holiday in question unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Employer and employee for the advantage of the employee.
D. Non-probationary employees who are laid off ten or less working days prior to a holiday shall be paid for the holiday.
E.	(1) When a paid holiday occurs on a scheduled day off, and the employee is not required to work, he/she shall be paid:
one fifth of regular weekly wage if working a 5 day week one quarter of regular weekly wage if working a 4 day week
(2)	When a paid holiday occurs on a scheduled work day, and the employee is not required to work, he/she shall be paid:
one fifth of regular weekly wage if working a 5 day week one quarter of regular weekly wage if working a 4 day week
F.	An employee shall not be entitled to receive holiday pay pursuant to this article for any holiday which falls within the time period in which the employee is also qualified to receive Short Term Disability, Long Term Disability or Workers Compensation Benefits.
ARTICLE 12 - PATD VACATION:
A.	(1) In the event an employee shall have completed less than one (1) full year of continuous employment with the Employer, year ending May 1st in any year, he/she shall be granted vacation or pay according to the provisions of the Labour Standards Code of Nova Scotia.
(2)	The Company agrees to grant vacation entitlement on the anniversary of the employee's hiring date, however, scheduling of vacations is to remain as of May 1st of each year.
(3)	The Company will endeavour to grant employees vacations as requested throughout the year provided, however, that sufficient trained vacation replacements are available so as not to prevent the Company from operating in an efficient, effective manner to meet the needs of our customers.
B. (1)	Each employee who has completed one (1) year's continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to two (2) week's vacation with pay.
(2)	Each employee who has completed five (5) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay.
(3)	Each employee who has completed ten (10) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to four
(4)	weeks vacation with pay.
(4)	Each employee who has completed twenty (20) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to five
(5)	weeks vacation with pay.
(5)	Each employee who has completed twenty-eight (28) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation with pay.
The pay referred to in B(l) to B(5) inclusive, for all fulltime employees, shall be the greater of:
(i)	the straight time hourly earnings, at the time of vacation, multiplied by the number of hours in the employee's work week for each week of , vacation entitlement.
OR
(ii) two percent (2%) for each week of vacation entitlement, multiplied by the figure which results from the gross earnings in the previous calendar 'year being reduced by vacation pay and Christmas bonus.
Note : Effective May 1, 1993, the "two percent" as stated in (5) (ii) will change to read "two and one half (2.5%) percent and delete Vacation pay".
C.	Any employee entitled to such one, two, three, four, five or six weeks vacation with pay when is discharged, leaves of his/her own accord, or is laid off due to lack of work prior to taking such vacation shall be compensated at the rate of pay he/she would have received for such vacation.
D.	Should the period of an employee's absence resulting from sickness or accident correspond with his/her vacation period, the latter shall be delayed until after said employee returns to work, such vacation time shall be taken at the Employer's discretion.
E.	The choice of vacation periods of driver-salespersons shall be according to seniority ratings.
F.	Employees shall not be permitted to accumulate vacation periods from year to year except when proven illness or injury prevents them from using their earned vacation for the year in which they were absent.
G.	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it shall be understood that the Company will recognize the years of continuous service that an employee has had with any Company Farmers Co-operative Dairy has purchased, and such employee(s) shall be entitled to the full vacation benefits of this Agreement as if the years of service were with Farmers Cooperative Dairy Limited (not applicable to companies purchased after September 1, 1972).
H.	(1) The vacation list shall be posted no later than March 15.
All employees shall submit their preferred vacation dates to the Employer by April 1st and each employee is entitled to use seniority to establish a claim for two weeks of their vacation entitlement. The Employer shall post the vacation lists no later than April 15th and employees shall have two weeks from the posted date to register a protest. Any employee who does not apply for their vacation dates by April 30th shall not have the right to protest and shall accept vacation assigned to them by the Employer. ,
Having thus established the vacation priorities for two weeks, employees may then exercise seniority to claim for other vacation periods which may be available within their department in accordance with provisions of this Contract.
(2)	Employees shall only be allowed a maximum of two (2) weeks vacation during the summer vacation period unless it is mutually agreed between the Employer and the employee for the employee to receive extra weeks of vacation. Any extra weeks of vacation granted shall not interfere with other employees, vacation.
Should an employee's vacation be cancelled or altered by the Employer, the employee shall be reimbursed for the nonreturnable portion of vacation contracts and reservations provided satisfactory proof of such amounts are provided by the employee and that such contracts and reservations are through public carriers and bona fide agencies.
Should an employee be called back to work while on his/her scheduled vacation, he/she shall be compensated at two times his/her regular rate of pay for the time worked or granted double time off at a future date at the discretion of the manager.
(3)	Notwithstanding anything else herein contained, vacations for ice cream employees shall be subject to the following conditions: A maximum of five employees on vacation at one time and not more than two weeks vacation for any one employee during the period May 1st to October 1st unless agreed to by management.
I.	The Employer agrees that should a paid holiday occur during an employee's vacation, such employee shall be compensated with an additional days pay or a day off in lieu of the holiday, the choice between the days pay or the day off to be at the discretion of the employee. If a day off is chosen, such day off must be scheduled within four months after the holiday in question unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Employer and the employee.
J.	Once the final vacation schedule is posted, there can be no changes by either party except by mutual consent other than emergency conditions when the needs of our customers shall be paramount.
ARTTCLFi 13 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
A.	(1) The overall Company workweek is Monday to Sunday inclusive. An individual's workweek is within those days.
(2) An individual workweek will be 5 days of 8 hours each or 4 days of 10 hours each.
(3)	The workweek will be posted showing the days to be worked and the days off.
B.	(l) Inside workers working a regular 5 day week will work:
a)	Monday to Friday inclusive
b)	8 hours per day
c)	when an employee works in excess of 8 hours per day. he/she will be paid at the rate of time and one half.
(2) Inside workers working the regular 5 day workweek above who are called in on Saturdays or Sundays will receive pay as scheduled below:
Saturdays - time and one half Sundays - double time
Inside workers working a regular 4 day week will
within Monday to Friday inclusive 10 hours per day
when an employee works more than 10 hours per day, he/she will be paid at the rate of time and one half
Inside workers working the regular 4 day workweek above who are called in to work on their scheduled days off will be paid:
a)	on their scheduled single day off - time and one half
b)	Saturday - time and one half
c)	Sunday - double time
a)
b)
C. (1)
work:
a)
b)
c)
(2)
D.	(1) Employees who by the nature of their jobs have a normal workweek other than the regular week in B (1) and C (1) above shall have two consecutive days off.
(2) When as a result of a shift change, an employee on a five day schedule must work six or more consecutive days, the 6th consecutive day of work will be paid at time and one half.
When as a result of a shift change, an employee on a four day schedule must work 5 or more consecutive days, the 5th consecutive day of work will be paid at time and one half.
This will not apply in cases where the change is made at the request of the employee.
It is mutually agreed that nothing in the foregoing shall imply the guarantee of a forty hour week.
E.	Employees working as in D (1) who are called in to work on their scheduled days off will be paid as follows:
1.	for the scheduled single day off on a 4 day work schedule - time and one half
2.	for the first of the 2 consecutive days off - time and one half
3.	for the'second of the 2 consecutive days off - double time.
F.	All classified persons will be given seven (7) calendar days notice of a shift change or of days off, unless mutually agreed between the employee and the employer.
If a classified person is required to change their days off without the seven (7). calendar days notice, then he or she will be paid the premium rate of time and one half (1 1/2) or the applicable rate for off days worked without the appropriate notice, unless mutually agreed upon between the employee and employer.
The scheduled days off will not be changed in any week containing a Statutory Holiday.
G.	Inside workers working a 4 or 5 day week shall not work more than 16 continuous hours unless it is by mutual agreement between the employee and his/her supervisor.
H.	(l) When overtime occurs during the regular workday, it' shall be assigned to the person performing the work. If the employee wishes to be relieved from the overtime, the employee must inform his/her foreperson no less than one hour before the normal end of the shift, and, if a volunteer is available on the premises and is deemed qualified, that person will be substituted for that overtime. If no volunteer is available, the employee will be required to work to a maximum of one hour, no more than twice in any scheduled workweek. When a substitute performs the overtime, it shall not constitute an assignment under this section.
(2) If additional persons are required, the overtime will be offered to the senior qualified employee at work.
(3)	If there are still insufficient volunteers at work, the overtime will be offered to the senior qualified person from the department who is off shift.
(4)	If there are still insufficient volunteers, the overtime will be offered to the employees within the seniority group who are qualified to do the work.
(5)	If there are still insufficient qualified volunteers to perform the work, casual workers who are able to perform the work may be used.
(6)	If there are still insufficient qualified volunteers and casual workers, the junior qualified employee at work will be forced to work, such forcing will be on a rotating basis.
(7)	If there are still insufficient	volunteers
and casuals, and there is no qualified person at work, the junior qualified employee from within the department will be forced to work, such forcing will be on a rotating basis.
I.	(l) When overtime is required other than above, that is on scheduled days off, volunteers who are qualified will be called for.
(2)	The overtime will be assigned starting with the senior most qualified volunteer from the department.
(3)	If there are insufficient qualified volunteers from within the department, the most senior qualified person on the Availability List will be assigned the overtime.
(4)	Qualified unclassified Union workers will be assigned the overtime once the Availability List has been exhausted. Non-Union casuals will be called when there are insufficient Union volunteers.
(5)	If there are still insufficient volunteers or casual workers, the junior qualified employee within the department will be forced to work on a rotating basis.
J.	Hourly paid workers and haulers that	regularly
scheduled work starting between 4:00 p.m. and *	p.m., will
be paid a shift differential of 35 cents per hour for those hours. If their shift has regularly scheduled hours starting
between 11:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m., the shift differential will be 55 cents per hour for those hours.
K.	When an employee is required,to report for duty, such employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of 4 hours pay at regular rate. (Premium pay when applicable.) It is understood that nothing in the provisions of this Agreement shall guarantee a forty hour week.
An employee must be able to report within a reasonable period of time.
L.	It is clearly understood that nothing in the foregoing shall prevent the Company from assigning a qualified workforce sufficient to meet the needs of the business.
M.	The regular workweek for all drivers (Bulk Tank Graders, Driver-Salespersons, Long Haul Drivers and Ice Cream Drivers) will be posted in the Appendix.
N.	This Article 13 is not applicable to Bulk Tank Graders and shall not affect the present schedule of work and days off.
ABTTHT.F, 14 - RULES GOVERNING DR TVER SALESPERSONS:
A.	It is mutually agreed that a driver salesperson's duties shall consist of delivery of dairy products, and collecting payment for same. The Employer further agrees to provide adequate cashing-in facilities in order to permit driver salespersons to spend the least possible time in their prescribed settling of accounts.
B.	No driver salesperson shall be expected to clean the outside of his/her truck, but shall be responsible for keeping the cab of the vehicle clean and tidy.
C.	Upon proper evidence furnished by the employee, to the satisfaction of the Employer, allowance shall be made daily for all goods broken, spilled or soured.
D.	Order sheets, return and cashing sheets shall be in enough copies to supply both the Employer and the employee.
E.	Credit customers shall not be permitted unless authorized by the Employer. Where credit has been so authorized, responsibility therefore shall rest solely with the Employer.
F.	Each driver salesperson shall complete his/her daily return each day before leaving the premises of the Employer.
G.	All driver salespersons shall be furnished each week with a full report of all units sold and the total earnings of the week with all deductions, shortages, and overages indicated thereon. The Employer shall have an employee available during reasonable working hours who is able to assist any driver salesperson in finding a shortage.
H.	No driver salesperson shall start to deliver product before-4:15 a.m. unless otherwise determined by the by-laws of the Municipality concerned.
I.	When wholesale customers are on regular routes of the salesperson (institutions, etc.) the Employer will give consideration to any request by the salesperson to include such accounts in his/her daily deliveries.
J.	Driver salespersons shall be permitted to transfer milk from one route to another and be credited and/or charged with the sale, providing both salespersons report the transaction on the day it occurs.
K.	The Company will endeavour at all times to keep any delay time during loading operations to a functional minimum for driver salespersons and also to monitor loading operations on a continual basis.
ARTICLE 15 - ROUTE CUTTING:
A.	It is agreed that when a route is split into two or more routes, the driver whose route is split shall have the first choice as to which route he/she shall work.
B.	The route driver whose route is split shall receive a guaranteed minimum pay to be governed by the four (4) weeks sales average previous to the aforementioned split, for twenty-two weeks following the splitting of the route, with the understanding that the months of July and August shall not constitute the aforementioned four (4) week period, except where wages are higher during these months. Should an employee be absent from his/her route during the twenty-two (22) week period, the balance of the guarantee will be paid; week by week, during the weeks following his/her return to that route.
C.	In the event that through increased sales commission, the driver whose route is split is able to make a pay higher than the minimum guaranteed in Section "B" above, it is understood he/she shall be granted such increase.
D.	Should the Employer cut a route for the second time within a period of twelve (12) months, the salesperson concerned shall receive the guaranteed minimum outlined in this Article 15,' Section "BM.
E.	For the purpose of Sections A and B of this Article, a route will be considered to have been split when:
1.	It has been divided into two or more routes:
2.	a portion has been removed and placed on another existing route.
The guarantee shall not apply in the event that:
1. The route is cut at the request of the employee;
2.	The customer is removed from a route at the request of the customer
3.	The customer is removed from a route, when in the opinion of the Company, such customer must be removed in order to prevent loss of sales to such customer.
F.	When a route is discontinued entirely or split and portions placed on existing routes, the salesperson whose route is discontinued shall be guaranteed their present earnings on any available route for twenty-two (22) weeks.
ARTTCLF, 16 - WAGES:
A.	It is agreed by both parties hereto that the wages, salaries, and other conditions outlined in the appendices shall be paid during the term of this Agreement, in addition to any other applicable clause.
B.	Barring machinery breakdown or Acts of God, the Company agrees to have the pay available by 2:00 p.m. at the latest, on Thursday. If a holiday falls on Thursday, the Company will endeavour to pay on Wednesday. The Employer agrees to pay employees on a weekly basis by cheque.
ARTICLE 17 ~ UNIFORMS:
A.	The Employer agrees to supply yearly, free of charge, to plant employees as follows: five pairs of pants and five shirts for those employees wearing white clothing, three pairs of pants and three shirts for those employees wearing dark clothes. The Employer may substitute coveralls and/or overalls and/or lab coats for whites or dark clothes if reguired by government inspection agencies as long as the total issue (5 white and 3 dark) remains the same. It is understood that the substitution of one coverall or overall or lab coat will displace one pair of pants plus one shirt or one pair of pants plus one smock. Employees working in the cold room may substitute insulated pants in place of pants or overalls in place of pants and shirts. Rubber boots will be supplied at cost, if requested. Packers shall receive pants and tops in lieu of smocks provided they have at least twelve months service. For employees in the stationary engineering and maintenance classifications, substitute the word four (4) where three (3) is mentioned above for dark clothing.
Bulk Tank Graders, Haulers, Milk Salespersons and Ice Cream Salespersons shall receive one complete uniform each year. Such uniform shall consist of two pairs of trousers, three shirts, one tie and one hat, if requested. One windbreaker
will be supplied in alternate years. A winter jacket will be supplied once every three years, the first jacket to be cost shared 50/50 with the employee.
One pair of overalls or coveralls per year shall be supplied to Bulk Tank Graders and Long Haul Drivers, if required.
A winter jacket will be supplied to workers in the Bedford milk cold room and to the one equipment mover in the garage
once every three years, the first jacket will be cost shared 50/50 with the employee.
The Employer agrees to provide four (4) pairs of coveralls to garage workers. Thermal coveralls shall be supplied for garage workers. Such coveralls shall be used only at work.
The Employer agrees to supply yearly, free of charge, to garage employees as follows: five pairs of pants and five shirts for those employees wearing dark clothes. Such clothing shall be used only at work.
The Middleton employee will be supplied with one pair of thermal coveralls for working on the exterior tank in cold weather. Such coveralls shall be used only at work.
B.	The employees shall maintain themselves and their clothing in a neat, tidy and clean condition at all times. This clothing to be cleaned on company premises. Employees shall receive their clothing allotment in October of each year if possible.
C.	The Company will pay $95 per year toward the cost of approved safety footwear appropriate for the type of work being performed. Such footwear must remain on Company property, or be used in the performance of Company business.
ARTICLE 18 - ABSENCES:
A.	Union delegates and officers may be absent from work for Union business, but at their own expense and provided the Company has adequate relief available. The maximum time off shall be twenty (20) working days per calendar year.
B.	Temporary Leave of Absence for Union Business:
Leave of Absence, without pay, for the purpose of attending Union schools, conventions, or conferences may be granted by the Company upon written request by the Union subject to the following conditions:
1.	Leave shall only be granted subject to the operational requirements of the business and the Company’s ability to locate suitable replacements.
2.	A maximum of three (3) employees shall be granted leave at any one time.
3.	A maximum number of days off that will be granted in a calendar year under this Article will be 100.
4.	If the employee is elected or appointed to a full time position with the ECWU, Leave of Absence not to exceed six (6) months shall be granted.
5.	Employees granted such leave shall continue to accumulate seniority except that entitlement for vacation pay, sick days and Christmas Bonus shall be reduced by one fifty second (1/52) for each week of absence.
6.	Coverage under the Security Plan as described in Article 21 may be continued provided the employee or the Union pay the full cost of the coverage. Contribution to the retirement plan may also be continued for a period of up to six months provided the employee continues to pay their portion.
c. The Employer agrees to grant all employees covered by this Agreement five (5) consecutive days off, commencing from the day after the death, without loss of pay upon the death of their father, mother, brother, sister, wife, husband, child, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandparents, grandchild or legal guardian. Should an employee require extra time off for purposes connected with the bereavement, it is agreed that such time off, up to a maximum of seven days, will be granted without pay, provided that such leave has been requested by the employee and granted by the Company. Time off without loss of pay, to a maximum of one (1) day, will be granted to attend the funeral of a sister-in-law, brother-in-law and spouse’s grandparents.
D.	An employee will not lose seniority as a result of absence from work provided that such leave of absence has been requested in writing and permission has been granted by the Company in writing. Permission for such leave of absence shall not be unreasonably withheld.
E.	An employee who loses time from his/her regularly scheduled work as a result of jury service shall have the difference between the pay received for such jury service and his/her straight time earnings he/she would have received if it were not for the jury service paid by the Company, subject to the following:
1.	Five days advance notice in writing to his/her Foreperson
2.	Proof of jury service satisfactory to the Company
ARTICLE 19 - BULLETIN BOARDS:
A.	The Employer agrees to permit posting of any notices of Union meetings or other activities on a bulletin board conspicuously placed and provided for that purpose.
B.	Discreet areas will be made on existing bulletin boards for postings only.
ARTICLE 20 - MEDICAL EXAMINATION:
A. Any medical examination required by the Employer shall be promptly complied with by all employees, provided, however, that the Employer be required to pay all expenses for such examination.
The Employer reserves the right to select their own medical examiner or physician, and the Union may, if in its opinion an injustice has been done, cause an employee to be re-examined at the Union's expense, by its chosen examiner physician.
ARTTCLF, 21 - SECURITY PLAN:
A.	The Employer and the employees agree to participate in maintaining a Security Plan involving Group Life Insurance, Dependent Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Medical Benefits, Vision Care, Long Term Disability Benefits, and Dental Care. The Employer agrees to discuss the benefits and costs of this Plan with the Union from time to time as may be required.
B.	Farmers Co-operative Dairy has established a Pension Plan. Membership in the Plan will be mandatory after two (2) years of service. Employees may apply earlier, on a voluntary basis, to join the Plan.
The Company agrees to have two (2) Union members sit on the Pension Committee. It must be clearly understood that these persons must agree to maintain as confidential, all personal information to which they may have access.
ARTTC.LF. 22 - flTCKNF.flfl BENEFITS:
A. In order for any employee to receive a sick day for a reason other than illness, they must make a request, in advance of such day, to the department supervisor. The request will be granted only where, in the opinion of the department supervisor or appropriate manager, the employee's absence will not cause disruption to operations and a suitable replacement can be located.
3.	(1) The Company agrees to allow six (6) days (eguivalent 48 hours for those on a five day work week or 50 hours for those on a 4 day work week) off with pay per year in case of sickness. On or about the last Friday in May of each year, the Employer will pay six (6) days pay to any employee who has not been paid for days off sick under this Article, and the difference between six (6) days pay and any days drawn on account of sickness in the case of all other employees. The above-mentioned sick days shall not be accumulative from year to year. It is understood that one day's entitlement is
equivalent to one fifth (1/5) or one fourth (1/4) of a basic weeks pay up to a maximum of 48 or 50 hours as applicable.
(2) New employees must have completed ten (10) continuous weeks service in order to qualify for their first sick day. Thereafter they will become eliqible for one additional sick day after each ten (10) continuous weeks to a maximum of six (6) sick days per calendar year.
C.	Any employee claiminq sickness benefits under this Article must produce a doctor’s certificate.
D.	The Employer may investigate any report of sickness by visiting the home of the employee reported sick, or by any other means. Any such visit may be made by any official of the Employer appointed for the purpose.
E.	It is understood and agreed between the Employer and the Union that a false report of sickness by any employee shall be grounds for discipline, up to and including dismissal of the employee, and any employee so disciplined shall also forfeit to the Employer any amount of sickness benefits otherwise payable to him/her.
F.	Any employee who leaves the employ of the Employer of his/her own accord, or is discharged and has received sickness pay under this Article in excess of the amount entitled, shall pay the Employer the amount of such excess, or the Employer may deduct the amount of such excess from any amount owed to the employee by the Employer at the time the employee leaves or is discharged.
ARTICLE 23 - GENERAL:
A. Any classified employee presently receiving more than the minimum wages now existing under the terms of this Agreement will not suffer a decrease through the signing of this Agreement, and any classified employee enjoying working conditions more favourable than those stipulated herein shall continue to enjoy same.
B.	Any classified employee who is temporarily transferred from his/her regular job to another job with a higher rate shall be paid the higher rate for the day worked on the higher rated job, provided the time worked is four hours or more per shift on the higher rated job. However, an empl°yee wh° is temporarily transferred from his/her regular job, to another job with a lower rate shall continue to receive his/her regular rate for all the time worked on such other job if this is done for management convenience.
C.	The Union maintains the privilege to negotiate with the Employer wage rates covering new types of work not established by this Agreement. In such cases, the rates agreed upon shall be effective as of the date the said work goes into effect. Should the parties be unable to agree as to the rate to be applied to that job classification, the Union shall have recourse to the Grievance Procedure at the second step.
D.	Employees shall not be permitted to engage in any other major occupation or business during the course of their employment if it interferes with their employment with Farmers Dairy.
E.	The Employer agrees to classify all employees in the bargaining unit and supply a copy of same to the Union.
F.	All employees in the bargaining unit shall receive an extra 1/12 of a weeks pay (guaranteed earnings plus full commissions where it applies), for each full continuous month of service terminating December 31st of each year, same to be given to the employee on December 18th or the nearest banking day, provided that the employee has not resigned or been discharged prior to December 31st.
G.	Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article 23, the Employer and the employees agree that Garage workers are to supply their own tools subject to the following exceptions:
The Company agrees to cost share on the purchase of tools to a maximum cost of $400. Upon presentation of purchase receipts equal to half this amount on or before April 15th, the Company will reimburse the tool costs to a maximum of $270.
H.	A supper break is to be optional for any employee working one hour or more overtime, such option to be exercised by a production unit as a whole after a vote by a show of hands of the employees in the production unit and the majority of those voting shall carry the decision.
I.	The Employer agrees to provide adequate lunchroom facilities for all employees who are employed during a meal period. In particular, the Employer agrees to provide sufficient tables and chairs and an adequate eating area for employees working through the evening meal and between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
J.	If an employee makes a written request to the Employer, all records and correspondence in that employee's file shall be made available for that employee to see.
The Company agrees that letters of discipline will be null and void after two (2) years provided:
a)	there is no repeat of the matter disciplined for
b)	no violence
c)	no illegal acts that pertain to Company personnel and/or property
Letters of discipline that involve alcohol or drugs will be null and void after three years provided there is no repeat of the matter disciplined for.
K.	Any employee who is required to appear as a witness by the Company, or its agents acting on the Company's behalf, shall not suffer a loss of regular wages as a result.
L.	Lead Hands will be appointed from time to time at the discretion of management to assist in the maintenance of the proper flow of work.
M.	If an employee is injured at work and requires medical attention, and the attending physician advises that he/she may not return to work that day, the Company will pay his/her wages for the remainder of the regular work day.
ARTTCtF, 24 - SAFETY:
A.	It is the desire of the Company and the Union to maintain high standards of safety in order to continue to eliminate, insofar as possible, industrial accidents and illness. There is hereby established a safety committee consisting of not less than four (4) members, two of whom shall be management employees and two of whom shall be Union employees.
The Committee will determine their own terms of reference, frequency of meetings and inspection tours, and will post the terms of reference as agreed to between Union and Management.
B.	All reports and recommendations and a written statement of the action taken thereon shall be kept by the safety committee as a permanent record and shall at all times be available to any member of the committee. A written report of Safety Committee Meetings is to be posted.
c. Where an employee alleges that a machine or equipment is unsafe to operate, the employee may ask for an immediate determination of this by his/her Foreperson and be entitled to have a decision within two (2) hours. If the matter is not settled to the employee's satisfaction, the employee shall refer it to the Safety Committee for determination.
ARTICLE 25 - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
Each full time employee who ceases to be a full time employee of the Company by reason of the permanent closing of a department, by the introduction of labour saving equipment, or a permanent layoff for a reduction in the work force, shall be entitled to allowance as follows:
Less than 2 years service 2-5 years 5	- 10 years
10 - 15 years 15 - 20 years 20 - 25 years
25 years and over of service
2 weeks 4 weeks 6 weeks 10 weeks 12 weeks 14 weeks 18 weeks
Technological change means the introduction of equipment different in nature from that previously utilized that results in a reduction in manpower requirements. Should such technological change occur, a Joint Committee will be reconstructed to deal with:
1.	Retraining
2.	Transfers on a voluntary basis to vacant positions with the Company
3.	Any other such remedies as may be appropriate
The Committee will be advisory in nature and not executive.
The Company will endeavour to make every effort to avoid layoffs.
Employees who do not exercise their seniority rights when laid off as per Article 9(J) may elect to receive a severance allowance as per the article either at the time of the layoff or shall receive it after their recall rights under 8 (F) have expired.
Should the laid off employee be the junior employee with no bumping rights under Article 9 (J), they shall be entitled to receive a severance allowance after their recall rights under 8 (F) have expired.
Upon receiving the severance, the employee shall terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement.
ARTTCLFi 26 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT:
A. This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from the day of June, 1992 to October 25, 1993 and shall automatically renew itself on each anniversary date unless, within the period of two months prior to October 25, 1993 or
any subsequent October 25th thereafter one of the parties hereto notifies the other, in writing, of its intentions to revise, amend or conclude a new Collective Agreement.
B
Wages shall be in full force and effect from the Oh	Id 10- do OcToScU	1^3
The wages shall thereafter automatically renew itself on each anniversary date unless, within the period .of two months prior to	.hv'-"' iVi'7.	or any subsequent October
thereafter one of the parties hereto notifies the other, in writing, of its intention to revise, amend, or conclude a new	‘
wages agreement.
C.	The Company and Union agree that all prior Letters of Understanding are void upon signing of this Collective Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE HERETO SIGNED:
DRIVER SALESPEOPLE
WAGES APPENDIX "A" -METRO WHOLESALE ROUTES
Commission	$ .02 1/2 per equivalent litre on all sales
Bonus	,01 per equivalent litre on all sales
above 7500 litres when 8500 litre sales reached
Routes averaqinq in excess of 8500 equivalent litres over a fiscal month to receive bonus on all litres over 7500 per week. All bonuses to be paid monthly by cheque.
Drivinq Allowance	JUNE 21/92 ‘
OCT. 25/93
up to -	9,999 litres
10.000	- 12,999 litres
13.000	- up	litres
$	406.56
396.56
386.56
Driving allowance is calculated by averaging weekly sales of prior fiscal month.
Guaranteed Earninqs	$	586.56
Holiday Pay
If not required to work:
Up to 9,999 litres
10.000	- 11,499 litres
11.500	- 12,499 litres
12.500	and over
If required to work:
Up to 9,999 litres
10.000	- 11,499 litres
11.500	- 12,499 litres
12.500	and over
$	70.00
75.00
80.00 95.00
330.78
350.78
360.78
380.78
The reqular work week for driver salespeople shall consist of either five (5) days or four (4) days per week. Driver salespeople who work five days per week may be required to work Saturdays as regular working days and have another day as their day off in addition to Sunday.
Driver salespeople who work four days per week, shall work three days on a scheduled route, the fourth day to be worked as assigned. The delivery schedules will fall within Monday to Saturday inclusively.
CHAIN ROUTES
JUNE 21/92 OCT. 25/93
commission $	.02 per equivalent case (equiv. litres
divided by 16)
Driving Allowance	$ 560.56
Days of work - 5 per week
The regular workweek for Chain Store Driver Salespeople shall consist of five days per week. The delivery schedules will fall within Monday to Saturday inclusively.
DEFINITION OF AN EQUIVALENT LITRE - 1 litre of product sold
by fluid measure - 1 kilogram of product sold
by weight
METRO SPARE DRIVERS
Rate of Pay
$ 586.56
The regular workweek for spare drivers will normally consist of five days. When a Spare Driver is covering a four day route for a full week, his regular work for that week shall consist of four days.
If a spare driver is removed from his/her scheduled duties after starting such for that day and is assigned a regular route, he/she will be paid time and one half for all hours worked in excess of the hours required to complete the regular route that he/she is assigned on that day.
Additional Lump Sum (Daily)
1.	Chain Route
2.	Wholesale Route
up to 10,999 L
11.000	- 11,999
12.000	- 12,999
13.000	and over
3.	Ice Cream Route
SPECIAL DELIVERY DRIVERS (MTLK AND TCE CREAM)_____
Rate of Pay
$ 10.00
$ 26.00
33.00
40.00
45.00
$ 10.00
$	566.80
The workweek for special delivery drivers shall be forty (40) hours performed in five (5) days of eight (8) hours each and they shall receive two consecutive days off, one of which will be Sunday.
Overtime work, of a nature generally conceded to be that required of the special delivery drivers, will first be assigned by seniority to this group of employees. Should a volunteer from this group not be available, the work will go to the most senior volunteer in the Metro Wholesale group of drivers.
DRTVFiRS HELPERS	JUNE 21/92
OC.T. 25/93
Rate of Pay	$ 456.56
RURAL WHOLESALE ROUTES
Commission $ .01 per unit wholesale .02 per unit retail
Driving Allowance	$	561.60
DEFINITION OF A UNIT - 1 litre or its equivalent of all fluid
products except cream and blend = .88 of a unit
-	250 mL Blend = .44 of a unit
-	250 mL Whipping = .88 of a unit
-	500 mL Blend = .88 of a unit
-	500 mL 18% = 1.10
-	500 mL Whipping - 1.76
-	1 pound of spread or margarine
-	500 gm yogourt = 1.654 units
-	1 - 4 litre bag of spring water = 1.75 units
-	Juice equivalents as provided to drivers
RURAL SPARE DRIVERS
$	577.72
WAGES APPENDIX "B” - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE
METRO TCF, CREAM
JUNE 21/92 OCT. 25/93
Driving Allowance	$	570.96
Commission $ .01 per equivalent litre
METRO TCF CREAM CHATN ROUTE
Driving Allowance	$	440.96
Commission $ .01 per equivalent litre
RURAL ICE CREAM	$	577.20
Plus in each year 1% (one per cent) of all sales to regular customers made by driver salespeople including cash and credit sales.
RURAL SEASONAL TOE CREAM
Driving Allowance	$	555.88
Plus in each year 1% (one per cent) of all sales to regular customers made by driver salespeople including cash and credit sales.
ICE CREAM SPARE DRIVERS
Rate of Pay	$	577.72
WAGES APPENDIX "C" - DAIRY DIVISION/ICE CREAM DIVISION
PROCESSOR
ASEPTIC PROCESSOR
FLOATER OPERATOR (must be able to perform 90% of all duties within the Department)
SHIPPER OPERATOR (holding valid Forklift License)
MACHINE OPERATOR
SANITATION OPERATOR
LABOURER
QUALITY CONTROL
STOCKROOM
PACKAGER
UNCLASSIFIED
JUNE 21/92 OCT. 25/93
PER HR.
$	15.51
14.94
14.94
14.42 14.55
14.42
14.42
14.16
14.16 13.73 13.59 12.33
WAGES APPENDIX "D»
MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATION
INDUSTRIAL MECHANICS (I.M.) CLASSIFICATIONS
JUNE 21/92 OCT. 25/93
PER RR.
I.M. . Entry Level I.M. . Level 1 I.M. . Level 2 I.M. . Level 3 I.M. Level 4 I.M. . Level 5 I.M. Level 6 I.M. Level 7 I.M. Level 8 I.M.. Grandfathered
$	14.66
14.92 15.18
16.35 17.78 18.30 18.70 19.07 19.47
16.35
ELECTRICIAN CLASSIFICATIONS
Electrician Level 1 Electrician Level 2 Electrician Level 3 Electrician Level 4
$	18.17
18.70 19.07 19.47
WELDER CLASSIFICATIONS
Welder Level 1 Welder Level 2 Welder Level 3
$	17.26
17.65 18.04
DEFINITIONS OF MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATIONS INDUSTRIAL MECHANIC (I.M.) QUALIFICATIONS
(a) I.M. Entry Level
(b) I.M. Level 1
-	Graduate of N.s. Vocational School or other institution
or experience recognized by the Company: and
-	Qualified to enter N.S. Dept, of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program
-	Successful completion of first year of N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program: and
(c) I.M. Level 2
(d) I.M. Level 3
2000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade
Successful completion of second year of N.s. Dept, of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and
4000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade
Successful completion . of third year of N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and
6000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade
(e) I.M. Level 4
(f) I.M. Level 5
(g) I.M. Level 6
Successful completion of fourth year N.S.
Dept, of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and
8000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade
Successful completion of fourth year N.S.
Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade: and further upon completion of 72 months, Farmers Inplant Experience (F.I.E.) in any Industrial Mechanics classification si upon completion of 24 months F.I.E. in the Level 4 Industrial Mechanic classification
Successful completion of fourth year N.S.
Dept, of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in Industrial Mechanics trade: and further upon
completion of 96 months F.I.E. in any Industrial Mechanics classification or upon completion of 24 months F.I.E. in the Industrial Mechanics Level 5 classification
(h)	I.H. Level 7	- Successful completion
of fourth year N.S.
Dept, of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial	_
Mechanics trade; and ’ further upon completion of 120 months F.I.E. in any Industrial Mechanics classification or upon completion of 36 months F.I.E. in the Industrial Mechanics Level 6 classification
(i)	I.M. Level 8	- Successful completion of
fourth year N.S. Dept, of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program:	and 8000
hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade; and further upon completion of 144 months F.I.E. in any Industrial Mechanics classification upon completion of 36 months F.I.E. in the Industrial Mechanics Level 7 classification
(j) I.M. Grandfathered - Keith Gammon Individuals	Vic Power
Bill Benight
ELECTRICIAN	QUALIFICATIONS
(a)	Electrician Level 1 - Successful completion
of fourth year N.S.
Dept. of Labour Industrial Electrician Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Electrical trade
(b)	Electrician Level 2 - successful completion
of fourth year N.S.
Dept. of Labour Industrial Electrician Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Electrical trade: and further upon completion of 36 months Farmers Inplant Experience (F.I.E.) in the Electrician Level 1 classification
(c)	Electrician Level 3 - Successful completion
of fourth year N.S.
Dept. of Labour Industrial Electrician Apprentice Program: and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Electrical trade: and further upon completion of 36 months F.I.E. in the Electrician Level 2 classification
(d)	Electrician Level 4 - Successful completion
of fourth year N.S.
Dept. of Labour Industrial Electrician Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Electrical trade; and further upon completion of 48 months F.I.E. in the Electrician Level 3 classification
WELDER
QUALIFICATIONS
(a)	Welder Level 1	- 8000 hours worked in
the Welding trade and must be able to pass Company and Government inspections (may include x-ray) for quality of sanitary stainless steel welds
(b) Welder Level 2
(c) Welder Level 3
Upon completion of 24 months Farmers Inplan Experience (F. I.E.) in the Welder Level 1 classification
Upon completion of 36 months F.I.E. in the Welder Level 2 classification
An employee in any Maintenance classification shall be immediately reclassified upon successful completion of the requirements listed in the classification schedule.
(a) The following courses will be offered to indiciduals in Industrial Mechanics or Power and Refrigeration Technician classifications:
Basic Stick Welding Basic Electronics Hydraulics Pneumatics Forklift Mechanics
Tetra Pak TBA 9, Mechanic Level 1 Course Tetra Pak P.L.E., Mechanic Course Tetra Rex Mechanic Course Machinist
Plus designated future courses as requirements dictate
(b)	All employees in Industrial Mechanics and Power and Refrigeration Technicians classifications, with the exception of those employees in the I.M. Grandfathered classification, shall be required to complete three (3) of the above mentioned courses as determined by the employer.
Any courses in excess of the three (3) mandatory courses will be offered on a voluntary basis, with seniority, plant requirements, rotation, degree of relevance being used to determine who shall attend courses.
(c)	All employees in Electrician classifications will
be required to complete both the Allen Bradley P.L.C. train Level 1 and Square D P.L.C. training Level 1 course within two years from date of hire. It shall be the responsibility of the employer to schedule these courses.
(d)	All employees in Electrician classifications will
receive an extra $3.75 per week per course/block completed for the following courses:
. Journeyman Instrumentation (max. one employee)
. Journeyman Electronic Repair (max. tw° employees)
This payment will not be considered as part of the employees base rate, rather it will be paid as a "lump sum payment".
(e)	The employer shall continue to cover the registration costs for all mandatory courses and shall continue to cover the costs of airfare, lodging and living expenses (as per company policy) for Tetra Pak and Square D P.L.C. courses given off-site.
3.	Employees in Industrial Mechanic classifications (up to a maximum of two) may by the nature of their jobs, be required to work a normal work week other than the regular work week described in Article 13 B or C(l) and in this case, shall have two consecutive days off, one of which shall be Saturday or Sunday.
WAGES APPENDIX "E» - GARAGE
JOURNEYMAN BUS AND TRANSPORT (Heavy Duty With 8 Years Experience)
JOURNEYMAN MECHANIC (Includes Reefer)
JOURNEYMAN BODYMAN
BODY AND FENDER (No Papers)
MECHANIC APPRENTICE
1st six months 50%
2nd six months 55%
3rd six months 60%
4th six months 65%
5th six months 70%
6th six months 75%
7th six months 80%
8th six months 90%
TRUCK SERVICE
EQUIPMENT MOVER
It is understood that attainment of Journeyman's papers will automatically create a reclassification. Journeymen must be able to qualify under flat rate.
It is understood that Journeymen will continue to function as they now do, and that any classification may be required to perform work in any other classification where qualified.
When a garage employee is called in to work, such employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours pay at regular rate, or premium rate if applicable. At the time of the call, the employee shall be advised of the nature and extent of the work required and an estimate of completion time. Should this employee report to work and find that there is additional work, other than that related in the initial call, the employee may elect to call his superior and request that another employee be called for this additional work. In this case, the first employee shall be paid only for the time actually worked and the second employee is entitled to the four (4) hour call-in pay. It is understood that a second employee must be available before the first can be released from the requirement to complete the additional work.
JUNE 21/92 OG1. 25/93
PER HR.
$	17.27
$ 16.16
$ 16.16 $	15.20
$	8.36
$	9.19
$	10.03
$ 10.86 $	11.70
$	12.54
$	13.37
$	15.04
$	14.16
$	13.33
WAGES APPENDIX "F" - MTDDLFTON
CLASSIFICATION
Machine Operator Plant Labourer Maintenance (1) Maintenance (2) Electrician Stationary Engineer Shipper Operator
JUNE 21/92 OCT. 25/93
PER HR.
$	14.50
$	14.16
$	14.42
$	14.16
$	15.02
$	14.63
$	14.50
WAGE APPENDIX "G» - BULK TANK DRIVERS
1.	The regular workweek of a Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operator shall consist of picking up milk from farms on an assigned route or routes for periods averaging five days per week throughout the year. Such routes to be agreed upon by the Company and the Union representative upon origination and before subsequent adjustments are made.
2.	The present system of alternating days of work shall continue during the term of the Collective Agreement.
3.	The Company will attempt to schedule runs to average 40 hours per week. Where this is not practical, overtime will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week.
4.	If a Bulk Tank Grader is required to work on a scheduled rest day, he will be paid as follows for the actual hours worked:
5 day work schedule - first day at time and one half
-	second day at double time if first day off worked
4 day work schedule - first day at time and one half
-	second day at time and one half
-	third day at double time if first and second day off worked
5.	Any Bulk Pick-up Truck Operator required to perform work other than his regular workweek shall be reimbursed for expenses for meals and lodgings incurred as a result of the requirements of this extra work.
6.	Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operators will forfeit the privilege of taking trucks home at night at the discretion of the Company.
7.	Any Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operator who shall work Sunday, and that day being one of their regular five (5) days of work, shall be paid an extra one tenth (1/10) of their regular weekly pay for the day in question.
8.	If a spare driver works more than 8 hours per day, he will be paid at time and one half his hourly pay for hours worked in excess of the 8 hours.
BULK TANK GRADER	JUNE 21/92
OCT. 25/93
Bulk Tank Grader Tractor-Trailer
$	582.40
579.80
Bulk Tank Grader
$
WAGES APPENDIX "H"
HAULERS
JUNE 21/92 OCT. 25/93
PER HOUR
HAULERS
(Tractor-Trailer)	$	14.56
HAULERS	$	14.32
(Straight Truck)
PER WEEK
MODIFIED LONG HAUL	$	655.20
Plus Commission of 20 per equivalent case for Chainstore deliveries
WAGES APPENDIX "I" - MERCHANDISERS - fttt.t. ttmt?
Full time Merchandisers - $ 13.52/hour
1.	The regular work week for a full time merchandiser shall be 40 hours per week.
2.	Full time Merchandisers shall receive time and nnp half (1 1/2) for work performed in excess of 40 hours in one week.
3.	The following uniform policy shall apply to ’Full time Merchandisers:
two pairs of pants two golf shirts
one sweat shirt
4.	A driving allowance of 23<? per kilometre shall be paid to merchandisers for the distance required to be driven between stores.
5.	A maximum of two employees shall be granted vacation at any one time and no vacation shall be granted during the period of December 1st to January 1st.
6.	Full time Merchandisers shall be exempt from Article 13 and 17.
APPENDIX J - MERCHANDISERS - PART TIME
Part time Merchandisers - $7.80 per hour
1.	Part time merchandisers shall work 24 or less hours averaged over a 4 week period. This provision shall not apply during the period of December 1st - January 10th and May 15th - September 15th when their hours may exceed the 24 hour limit.
2.	The seniority for each part time merchandiser shall be established after a probationary period of 200 working hours and shall be calculated for days worked with the company.
3.	Part time merchandisers shall be eligible for statutory holiday pay for the number of hours they would have worked if such holiday is part of their regular schedule, provided they report for work their scheduled day before and their scheduled day after.
Part time merchandisers shall be paid at a rate of time and one half their regular rate of all hours worked on a holiday.
4.	Vacation pay for part time merchandisers will be 4% of their previous years earnings (May-May). Vacation pay will be paid each May.
5.	Christmas bonus will be paid to part time merchandisers in the amount of $100.00.
6.	The following uniform policy shall apply to part time merchandisers:
one pair of pants two golf shirts one sweat shirt
7.	a driving allowance of 230 per kilometre shall be paid to merchandisers for the distance required to be driven between stores.
Part time merchandisers shall be exempt from Article 8, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 21, 22 and 23 F.
In the case of a part time merchandiser who moves into a full time position, he/she shall be entitled to the provisions of the Collective Agreement which apply to full time employees.
Any full time employee who exercises his/her seniority rights as per Article 9 (k) of the Collective Agreement by bumping into a part time merchandiser position shall not lose entitlement to the provisions of Article 21 (a) for a period of 4 months from the day they become a part time merchandiser.
APPENDIX "K" ~ BOILER ROOM
CLASSIFICATION
QUALIFICATIONS
RATE OF PAY
Stationary Engineer Level 1
4th Class Stationary $ Engineer - Boiler ticket and 2nd Class Stationary Engineer - Refrigeration ticket
15.86
Stationary Engineer Level 2
3rd Class Stationary $ Engineer - Boiler ticket and 1st Class Stationary Engineer - Refrigeration ticket
17.42
Stationary Engineer Spare
Stationary Engineer Level 1 classification minimum
appropriate rate plus 50d per hr.
Power and Refrig-	Journeyman Industrial	$ I8.30y
eration Technician	Mechanics ticket plus
4th Class Stationary Engineer - Boiler ticket and 2nd Class Stationary Engineer - Refrigeration ticket
1.	An employee in any Stationary Engineering classification shall be immediately reclassified upon successful completion of the requirements listed in the classification schedule.
It is understood that automatic re-classification does not apply for the Power and Refrigeration Technician position unless a vacancy exists.
2.	Employees in stationary Engineer classifications who are required to work.twelve (12) continuous hour shifts shall work a 3 on/3 off shift format, alternating with a day and night rotation. The regular hours of work for the twelve (12) hour continuous shift schedule shall be spread over six (6) consecutive weeks, that is three (3) weeks of thirty six (36) hours and three (3) weeks of forty eight (48) hours.
3.	The work week for all employees covered by the classifications in this appendix starts at 0600 hours Sunday and ends the following Sunday at 0600 hours.
4.	(a) Any work performed in excess of regular scheduled
hours of work shall constitute overtime and shall be paid at one and one-half times the employee's straight time classified rate.
(b)	Any work performed in excess of forty (40) hours in
the work week described above shall constitute overtime and shall be paid at one and one half times the employees straight time classified rate.
(c)	Employees in Stationary Engineer classifications
who are required to work on their scheduled days off shall be paid
(i)	at one and one half times the employees
straight time classified rate for all hours worked on their first and second scheduled days off
(ii)	at two times the employee's straight time classified rate for all hours worked on their third scheduled day off
5.	Any employee(s) whose schedule calls for him/her to work on a holiday as defined in Article ll A, shall be the person who works that holiday and shall be paid as per Article 11.
When a paid holiday occurs on an employees scheduled day off and the employee is not required to work, he/she shall be paid the applicable hours that are called for in their schedule.
6.	For the purpose of determining the sickness benefits as described in Article 22, it is understood that those employees working the twelve (12) continuous hour shifts shall be eligible for a maximum of 50 hours under this entitlement.
7.	Employees covered by the classifications in this appendix shall be eligible to receive shift differential as described in Article 13 J.
8.	For the purpose of Article 12 B(5) (i) and Article 23 F, the number of hours in an employee's work week shall be assumed to be forty (40).
9.	Employees covered by the classifications in this appendix shall be exempt from Article 11 E and Article 13 unless otherwise specified.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm our agreement reached at negotiations.
It is agreed to reclassify Phil Camplin as Power and Refrigeration Technician effective upon the ratification date of this agreement even though he does not meet all the qualifications for Stationary Engineer tickets described in Appendix K - Boiler Room. it is agreed that he must meet these qualifications before the expiration of this collective agreement.
It is agreed that he shall be paid as per the qualification schedule set out in Appendix D - Maintenance Classifications for Industrial Mechanics,. until he attains his required Stationary Engineer tickets.
Upon attainment of both required tickets, a $20.00 lump sum payment will be added to the applicable rate of pay.
FOR THE UNION:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm our agreement reached at negotiations. The employees listed below will have their current paid rate maintained, adjusted for general wage increases, for the period of this Collective Agreement from December 3, 1991 provided that:
(a)	If any of the employees should be the successful bidder on a job posting, he/she shall receive the wages for that position as per the classification in the Collective Agreement.
(b)	If any of the employees exercise his/her seniority rights as per Article 9 J of the Collective Agreement, he/she shall receive the wages for that position as per the classification in the Collective Agreement.
Employees!
Ted W. Allen Tom Butt Bruce Hanson Owen Johnson Mark MacKinnon John Wolfe
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE COMPANY:
LETTER of UNDERSTANDING
Effective May 4, 1992, Bedford Milk, Ice Cream, Ice Cream Shipping, Milk Shipping, U.H.T., Processing, Warehouse, Maintenance, Boiler Room, Stockroom and Quality Control shall be considered as one Seniority group.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Effective May 4, 1992, Seniority of new groups unionized as of December 3, 1991 shall have their seniority calculated from their most recent date of hire.
Part Time Merchandisers shall have their seniority calculated for time worked with the company.
For the purposes of this "Letter of Understanding":.
Part Time Merchandisers shall only be given seniority credit for the days they actually work
It is understood that this letter only applies to the employee who joined the union on December 3, 1991 and in no way affects or interferes with any personnel adjustments, including bumping, lay off or job postings that occurred prior to May 4, 1992.
The use of "most recent date of hire" for seniority calculation shall only be applicable to the employees who joined the union as of December 3, 1991.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
ADDENDUM TO COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
FARMERS CO-OPERATIVE DAIRY LIMITED
AND
ENERGY AND CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION LOCAL 40
DATED APRIL 20, 1990
The parties agree that the following two items form part of the Agreement:
1.	When there is a work shortage in the Ice Cream Department, the Company will endeavour to give a minimum average of forty hours of work per week for the six most senior persons in the Department unless they prefer a lay-off.
2.	The Company will recognize a union negotiating committee limited to five (5) employee/members and will pay these employees at regular time for wages lost, during direct bargaining sessions, up to a maximum of two hundred and fifty (250) hours for the Committee.
)R THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
February 19, 1990
RAIN GEAR POLICY
Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited agrees to supply adequate rain gear to applicable employees provided they read over the following policy and sign, if agreed, at the bottom of the page.
1.	All rain gear is the property of Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited and will be used for work related duties only.
2.	Torn or damaged rain gear will be repaired or replaced by
Farmers provided the items are returned to the supervisor.	Lost or stolen items will be the
responsibility of the employee and will, therefore, be replaced immediately by them.
3.	A signed copy of the issue will be given to the employee, their supervisor and Personnel for their file.
4.	Should an employee terminate employment with Farmers Dairy, the gear shall be returned to the supervisor before they issue the employee's final pay.
Issue:
Received by: ______________________ Date:
Authorized by: ____________________ Date:
MAIMTEMAMCE POLICY STATEMENT
Farmers Co-operative Dairy is committed to the ultimate goal of having all personnel in Maintenance classifications attain journeyman status through the Nova Scotia i Department of Labour Apprentice Training Program. To facilitate this, Farmers Dairy will sign an Apprentice Training Agreement for any employee in a Maintenance classification who is interested in completing their apprenticeship. Every individual (with the exception of those Grandfathered individuals) in a Maintenance classification below journeymen status must enrol in the Apprentice Program, and also sign a letter of intent outlining their desire to complete their apprenticeship and abide by the following conditions.
1.	An individual who fails to pass a block examination after attending course for two times may be dropped from he Apprentice Program and at that time will have their position at Farmers Dairy re-assessed in discussions between management and the union.
2.	An individual who fails to pass a block examination and then fails to attend two consecutive offerings of the same block without a valid reason acceptable to management, may be dropped from the Apprentice Program and at that time will have their position at Farmers Dairy re-assessed in discussions between management and the union.
In return, Farmers Dairy agrees that the following conditions shall be in force for those individuals who enrol in the Apprentice Program:
1.	Any individual interested in attending a block course shall make a request in writing to the Company in reasonable time before its offering. When more than °ne individual applies to attend a block course at the same time and conflict exists, seniority, rotation, and the length of time since last attending a block course will be used to determine who shall attend.
2.	As a means of support for those individuals that are going on course during their Apprenticeship, Farmers will offer a monetary bonus for those who successfully complete each block. This bonus will be egual to the two
weeks pay which were lost awaiting U.I.C. benefits to begin, plus a "topping off" amount equal to the
difference between what is received as weekly gross wages from U.I.C. and what is a current week (40 hrs.) pay for that individual for each of the remaining weeks on course. The bonus will be paid upon notification of successful completion of the course. Those who fail to pass the block examination will not be eligible for the bonus.
Should an individual leave the employment of the Dairy within one year after receipt of their bonus, they would agree to repay the bonus in an amount equal to l/12th of the total for each month remaining to reach one year. (For example, if an individual left after 5 months of receiving-their bonus, they would have to repay 7/i2ths of the total.)
3.	Any writing of block examination credits for third or forth level without prior course attendance must have approval in writing by the Company.
4.	All participants in the Apprentice Program will supply the tools listed in Schedule A (attached). Each mechanic will be given a yearly tool allowance of $200.00 upon presentation of purchase receipts equal to half the allowance, on or before April 15th of each year. This allowance is to be used to purchase relevant tools.
It is agreed that this policy will remain in full force and
effect during the term of the Collective Agreement dated
DATE
QARAGB POLICY STATEMENT
Farmers Co-operative Dairy is committed to the ultimate goal of having all personnel in applicable garage classifications attain journeyman status through the Nova Scotia Department of Labour Apprentice Training Program. To facilitate this, Farmers Dairy will sign an Apprentice Training Agreement for any employee in an applicable garage classification who is interested in completing their apprenticeship. Every individual in an applicable garage classification below journeymen status must enrol in the Apprentice Program, and also sign a letter of intent outlining their desire to complete their apprenticeship and abide by the following conditions.
1.	An individual who fails to pass a block examination after attending course for two times may be dropped from he Apprentice Program and at that time will have their position at Farmers Dairy re-assessed in discussions between management and the union.
2,	An individual who fails to pass a block examination and then fails to attend two consecutive offerings of the same block without a valid reason acceptable to management, may be dropped from the Apprentice Program and at that time will have their position at Farmers Dairy re-assessed in discussions between management and the union.
In return, Farmers Dairy agrees that the following conditions shall be in force for those individuals who enrol in the Apprentice Program:
As a means of support for those individuals that are going on course during their Apprenticeship, Farmers will offer a monetary bonus for those who successfully complete each block. This bonus will be equal to the two weeks pay which were lost awaiting U.I.C. benefits to begin, plus a "topping off'1 amount equal to the difference between what is received as weekly gross wages from U.I.C. and what is a current week (40 hrs.) pay for that individual for each of the remaining weeks on course. The bonus will be paid upon notification of successful completion of the course. Those who fail to pass the block examination will not be eligible for the bonus.
Should an individual leave the employment of the Dairy within one year .after receipt of their bonus, they would agree to repay the bonus in an amount equal to l/12th of the total for each month remaining to reach one year. (For example, if an
individual left after 5 months of receiving their bonus, they would have to repay, 7/12ths of the total.)
It is agreed that this policy will remain in full force and effect during the term of the Collective Agreement dated
FOR THE COMPANY
^2,
DATE