COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
DATED THIS 15 th day of the month of January 15, 2008
BETWEEN:
Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited P. O. Box 8118 Halifax, Nova Scotia B3K 5Y6
AND:
Communication, Energy & Paper Workers Union Local 40 N
WITNESSETH that the Employer and the Union hereby mutually agree as follows:
00374 (11)
INDEX OF ARTICLES
ARTICLE 1 - OBJECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT..........................................1
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING UNIT....................................................1
ARTICLE 3 - MUTUAL RIGHTS AND BENEFITS.........................................1
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY.....................................................2
ARTICLE 5 - UNION REPRESENTATION...............................................3
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE................................................4
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION........................................................5
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY..........................................................6
ARTICLE 9 - PROMOTIONS, LAY-OFFS, REHIRING AND JOB OPENINGS....................8
ARTICLE 10 - FLOATERS.........................................................15
ARTICLE 11 - DISCHARGE........................................................16
ARTICLE 12 - PAID HOLIDAYS....................................................16
ARTICLE 13 - PAID VACATION AND PAID ABSENCE...................................17
ARTICLE 14 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME.......................................21
ARTICLE 15 - RULES GOVERNING DRIVER SALESPERSONS..............................30
ARTICLE 16 - ROUTE CUTTING....................................................31
ARTICLE 17- WAGES.............................................................34
ARTICLE 18 - UNIFORMS.........................................................34
ARTICLE 19 - ABSENCES.........................................................35
ARTICLE 20 - BULLETIN BOARDS..................................................36
ARTICLE 21 - MEDICAL EXAMINATION..............................................36
ARTICLE 22 - SECURITY PLAN....................................................36
ARTICLE 23- GENERAL...........................................................37
ARTICLE 24 - SAFETY...........................................................38
ARTICLE 25 - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE..............................................38
ARTICLE 26 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE.............................................38
ARTICLE 27 - STUDENTS.........................................................39
ARTICLE 28 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT............................................40
WAGES APPENDIX "A" - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE.......................................41
WAGES APPENDIX "B" - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE.......................................44
WAGES APPENDIX "B1" ASSIGNMENT OF OVERITME FOR WHOLESALE, ICE-CREAM, .........45
WAGES APPENDIX "C" - DAIRY DIVISION/ICE CREAM DIVISION........................48
WAGES APPENDIX "D" - MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATION...............................49
WAGES APPENDIX "E" - MIDDLETON................................................53
WAGES APPENDIX "F" - BULK TANK DRIVERS........................................54
WAGES APPENDIX "G" - HAULERS..................................................55
WAGES APPENDIX "H" - MERCHANDISERS............................................56
APPENDIX "I" - BOILER ROOM....................................................58
APPENDIX “J” - DRIVER JOB BIDDING AND BUMPING CRITERIA........................60
RAIN GEAR POLICY..............................................................62
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SPLIT SHIFTS........................................63
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - RETURN TO WORK......................................64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SENIORITY OF NEW GROUPS.............................65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - ON-GOING PROCESS....................................66
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - MERCHANDISERS.......................................67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - NUMBER OF MERCHANDISERS.............................68
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SHIFTS..............................................69
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - WEEKEND WORK............................................70
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - PAYMENT FOR TRAINING AND MEETINGS...................72
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - PENSION BRIDGING....................................73
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - EMPLOYER’S PENSION..................................74
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - 2 CONSECUTIVE DAYS OFF..............................76
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - THREE DAY WORK WEEK FOR WHOLESALE DRIVERS...........78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - COVERAGE OF ABSENCES IN BRANCH AREAS................80
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - STORMDAY............................................81
GUIDELINES FOR EMPLOYEES WHO ATTEND JURY SELECTION............................82
ARTICLE 1 - OBJECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT
1.1	The intent and purpose of this Agreement shall be to promote and improve industrial and economic relations in the industry, to establish and maintain a high degree of discipline and efficiency and to set forth herein the basic agreements covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment which will render justice to all.
1.2.	The parties hereto desire to cooperate in establishing and maintaining proper and suitable conditions in the Company which will tend to secure uniform and equitable terms of employment satisfactory to Employer and employees, to provide methods for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes which may arise between them, and foster goodwill, friendly relations and better understanding between the parties.
ARTICLE 2	- BARGAINING UNIT
2.1	The Employer recognizes the Union to be the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees hereinafter defined to be in the bargaining unit, and those employees shall be all employees of the Employer excluding supervisors, employees of the rank of foreperson or above, salespersons other than driver salespersons, office staff and those excluded by Section 2 (2) (a) and (b) of the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia.
2.2	Forepersons and those above the rank of forepersons will not perform bargaining unit work except: (a)	In emergency conditions (b)	For the purpose of demonstration or training (c)	To relieve an employee for breaks (d)	When the regular employee is absent and no replacement is available
2.2.1	Sales supervisors shall continue to perform their normal sales and merchandising activities provided, however, that such activities shall not be extended by the Employer so as to cause the lay-off of any bargaining unit employee.
2.3	There will be no contracting out of Wholesale Routes, Long Haul or Bulk Tank during the life of this agreement. This section is not retroactive and applies to work being currently performed by the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 3	- MUTUAL RIGHTS AND BENEFITS
3.1	No employee shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written contract which may limit, alter, modify, or conflict with the stipulations of this Agreement.
3.2	There shall be no lockout by the Employer and no strike by the Union during the term of this Agreement.
3.3.	In administering this Agreement, the Union and the Employer shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a manner consistent with this agreement.
3.3.1	The parties agree that each will comply with the provisions of the Nova Scotia Human Rights Act.
3.4	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Employer to
manage and control the Employer's operations and without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing:
(a)	To maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	To hire, discharge, transfer, promote, classify, demote, discipline, suspend, layoff, transfer and assign work to employees and to introduce new or improved methods or facilities; provided that a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided;
(c)	Generally, to manage, control, continue, discontinue in whole or in part, the Employer's operations and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number of employees, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines and processes to be used, and the expansion, limitation or cessation of operations.
(d)	The Employer shall retain at all times the right to maintain a sufficient qualified workforce for the proper efficient operation of the Employer.
(e)	Nothing in this management rights clause shall detract from the rights of management as exercised in the past.
(f)	However, the exercise of the functions of Management will be consistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY
4.1	All employees covered by this agreement shall at the time of hiring sign a dues check off form for the union as a condition of employment.
4.2	Monthly union dues shall be deducted from the pay of all employees in the bargaining unit. The amount to be deducted shall be determined by a resolution of the Union and the Employer will be advised of the amount.
4.2.1	The dues collected shall be forwarded to the Secretary Treasurer of the local union, by the tenth day of the month following the period for which deductions have been made.
4.2.2	The Employer shall include a list in alphabetical order showing the names of the employees from whom deductions have been made and the total amount deducted from each employee.
4.3	The Employer shall deduct monthly union dues from high school, college and
university students of two hours wage per month. Students will be hired from the period of April 15 through to September 15 of the same year. Students, upon completing 120 working days in a calendar year, will join the Union and his/her seniority date will be calculated on the 121st working day for that individual.
4.3.1	If a student does not return to school, and is not laid off, the seniority date will be assigned on the 26th working day after September 15. The student, at this point, must go to the unclassified pool if there is an opening.
4.3.2	The Employer shall deduct initiation fees along with monthly union dues and remit same to the Union.
- 2 -
ARTICLE 5 - UNION REPRESENTATION
5.1	The Employer acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or elect a Shop Steward for the employees, and if the operations are such as cannot be handled by one steward only, additional stewards may be appointed or elected.
5.2	The Employer shall recognize a Union Grievance Committee comprised of two (2) members, both of whom shall be employees of the Employer and appointed by the Union.
5.3	The Union agrees to advise the Employer in writing of the names of the Shop Steward(s) and members of the Grievance Committee and of any subsequent change in the names thereof.
5.4	The Union Representative shall with the permission of the Employer be permitted to enter the Employer's premises on Union business provided he/she does not unduly interfere with the operations or progress of the work.
5.5	For matters arising within the Bedford Plant, the Shop Steward(s) shall be allowed the necessary time off with pay to investigate and settle grievances on the premises. They shall be free to discharge their duties without fear that their relations with the Employer may be affected. The Shop Steward shall act in good faith and not abuse these rights and shall make honest attempts to settle grievances.
5.5.1	For matters arising outside the Bedford Plant, the Employer agrees to provide compensation to the Shop Steward(s) who are required to attend personally, at one of the branches for union business. This compensation will include travel time and time spent on the Employer's premises. It is mutually agreed, however, that the Employer's obligation to provide such compensation shall be limited to a maximum amount equal to 200 hours (at regular rates) in any given calendar year.
5.5.2. Both the Union and the Employer agree the following conditions will apply for negotiating contract renewals;
(a)	The parties will meet 9 times a year, for two consecutive days each month except for December, July and August. The discussion of monetary issues will be scheduled for the October meeting in the contract expiry year. Meeting will be pre-scheduled for the year and will be confirmed one month ahead. Meetings will normally be held on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday of the third week in the month (Monday being a grievance meeting). Meetings will proceed unless there is an emergency in such cases an attempt will be made to reschedule the meetings.
(b)	The Employer and the Union may by mutual agreement increase the number of days beyond the 18 per year indicated above.
(c)	The Employer will release up to 5 employees from work and pay their regular pay for each day of negotiations up to conciliation at which time employees will be released from work but paid by the union.
(d)	The Employer agrees to pay employees who attend negotiations as part of payroll and bill the union monthly for any wages and any other expenses not covered by the Employer under this article.
(e)	Shift premium will be paid to employees who would have received it had
- 3 -
they worked the shift from which they have been released.
(f)	In any week where an employee is released for negotiations he/she will not be scheduled more than 40 hours, which will include credit for the shift (8 or 10 hours) from which he/she is being released. The employee will be entitled to regular overtime for any work (but not time spent in negotiations that exceeds his regular shift) performed beyond the 40 hours worked and/or credited.
(g)	The Union will pay the full cost of meeting space (if held off the Employer’s premises) and meals for both the Employer and Union representatives. Such costs will not exceed $250.00 per day.
(h)	The parties agree for the purpose of Article 14.6.4, rules regarding replacing employees, that the employees’ release from their regular job to attend negotiations will be considered to be an “other absence”.
(i)	The Parties recognize that new committee members, Union and Employer, will require training and they will incur costs beyond those set forth in this article. If there are new committee members, the parties will discuss the matter each January and determine the best method of training and how those additional costs will be shared.
(j)	Should the parties properly end the IBN process the above provision will end and the following will apply.
(k)	The Employer will recognize a union negotiating committee limited to five (5) employee/members and will pay these employees at regular time for wages lost, during direct bargaining sessions, up to a maximum of two hundred and fifty (250) hours for the Committee.
5.5.3	A Shop Steward shall be an employee of the Employer. There shall be no discrimination against a Shop Steward for Union activities.
5.5.4	An employee shall have the right to have his/her Shop Steward present at any meeting with a supervisor when such meeting concerns disciplinary action for that employee. In the absence of the regular Shop Steward, the Chief Shop Steward may attend.
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.1	The parties to this Agreement recognize that within the Grievance Procedure there lies the means for resolution of differences of interpretation or violation or alleged violation of any one of the stipulations of this Agreement or working conditions by the Employer or the employees who are covered by this Agreement.
6.1.1	The Union may file a grievance on behalf of all employees or any restricted number of employees or on behalf of an individual employee where the Union believes there has been violation of the Collective Agreement affecting an employee or a group of employees. Such grievance may be filed directly at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
6.2	First Step:
An attempt will be made between the shop steward and the employee, with the department supervisor to settle the matter verbally.
6.3	Second Step:
If this attempt is unsuccessful, a grievance shall be submitted in writing to the
- 4 -
department supervisor within ten (10) working days of the day the matter of the grievance occurred. The supervisor shall then meet with the Steward and employee and a decision shall be rendered within five (5) working days of receipt of the grievance.
6.4	Third Step:
Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement at step two, the Union shall within five (5) working days, submit the grievance to the manager or his representative who shall then meet with the grievance committee and render a decision within five (5) working days. The grievance committee may have the assistance of the National Representative of the Union at this stage.
6.5	Fourth Step:
Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement, the grievance may within ten (10) days then be referred to an arbitrator in accordance with Article 7 of this Agreement.
6.6	Any grievance not submitted within the time limits provided for in steps one, two or three shall automatically expire; however, the time limits may be extended by mutual agreement of both parties.
6.7	The Grievance Committee, as a special agenda item during its regular monthly meetings, will review the use of unclassifieds and casuals as well as any grievances filed concerning their employment.
6.7.1	The Committee may, if there is agreement, determine that the pattern of employment of unclassifieds indicates a need for a new regular position to be created and posted as a vacancy. If the need is primarily in a single work area (department) a regular job will be created. If the need is in two or more areas a “spare” position will be created. A Spare employee differs from a regular employee in that his/her primary function is to replace absent employees and as such will be required to undergo shift changes on short notice. Article 14.6 does not apply to spares. In cases of layoff the spare jobs must be eliminated before any other jobs and cannot exist if there are employees on layoff.
6.7.2	The Committee may, if there is agreement, determine that the pattern of employment of casuals indicates that the over all number of unclassifieds (currently seven) will be increased.
6.7.3	The Committee will also on an ongoing basis review all the Collective Agreement provisions regarding assignment of company work and make suggestions to the parties for improvement.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
7.1. No matter may be submitted to an Arbitrator unless settlement thereof has been attempted through the Grievance Procedure set forth in Article 6.
7.2	The Employer and Union shall agree on an Arbitrator within four (4) days following the notice of Arbitration given by one or the other party.
7.3	Should either party refuse to agree on an Arbitrator, such appointment may be made by final and binding decision of the Nova Scotia Minister of Labour.
7.4	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be given within fourteen (14) days following the hearing and shall be final and binding on both parties. It is understood, however, that the Arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the stipulations of this Agreement, nor to delete, alter, or
- 5 -
modify any part thereof, provided however, the Arbitrator may alter any discipline imposed by the Employer, including altering a discharge to a suspension if the Arbitrator deems it just.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
8.1.	Seniority shall be defined as the length of continuous employment with the Employer while a member of the bargaining unit.	
8.1.1	Seniority rights shall be established separately for:	
	(a)	Bedford Milk Division & Ice Cream Division
	(b)	Bulk Tank Graders
	(c)	Haulers
	(d)	Truro Distribution Centre
	(e)	Kentville Distribution Centre
	(f)	Middleton Distribution Centre
	(g)	Yarmouth Distribution Centre
	(h)	Shelburne Distribution Centre
	(i)	Bridgewater Distribution Centre
	(j)	Spread Plant - Middleton
	(k)	Merchandisers - Bedford - Full Time and Part Time
8.1.2	All branches except for (b), (c), (k), (l), (m) and (n) shall have two seniority groups:	
	(a)	Drivers and Driver-Salespersons
	(b)	All other employees
8.1.3	Seniority in all cases is to be calculated from the date of acquisition by Farmers or at the date of completion of the probationary period as outlined in Article 8.2, whichever is the latter.
8.1.4	Articles 8.1.1 through 8.1.4 shall not be construed to mean that unskilled employees shall be promoted into jobs requiring special qualifications.
8.2	The seniority of each full-time employee covered by this Agreement shall be established after a probationary period of sixty (60) working days upon completion of which seniority shall be calculated from the day the employee was hired. During this probationary period, there will be regular meetings between the new employee and his/her supervisor to review the new employee’s progress.
The supervisor will solicit and consider the views of the new employee’s coworkers in determining the employee’s progress. The new employee will be evaluated, at least in part, against a list of core skills required for the job he/she is doing, such list to have been developed by the Employer with input from the Union.
8.3	An employee's seniority shall be forfeited for the following reasons:
(a)	If he/she voluntarily resigns;
(b)	If he/she is discharged for just cause;
(c)	If he/she has been absent for five (5) working days without notifying the Employer, or without reasonable excuse
- 6 -
8.4.1	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, and employee unable to work because of proven illness or injury shall accumulate and retain seniority rights. When such employee returns to work within twenty-four (24) months, he/she shall have his/her same job, provided he/she is able to perform the work.
8.4.2	The accumulation and retention of seniority rights while an employee is unable to work because of proven illness or injury shall not entitle the employee to pyramid benefits.
8.4.3	A medical Doctor's certificate shall constitute sufficient proof of illness or injury. It is clearly understood that a false report of illness may be cause for discipline up to and including discharge.
8.4.3.1. If an employee has been absent from work for less than twelve (12) months, they will be eligible to receive benefits under Article 13, and 23.5.
8.4.3.2	If an employee has been absent from work for 12 months or longer, they will not be eligible for benefits under Article 13, and 23.5. When an employee has returned to work for a period of 60 calendar days, they will then be eligible to receive benefits under Article 13, and 23.5.
It is clearly understood:
(a)	That the returning employee does not have to repeat his/her probationary period, as per Article 8.
(b)	That an employee's seniority accrues through the period mentioned in
8.4.3.1	and 8.4.3.2 above.
(c)	If during the sixty day period mentioned above an employee is absent through illness, he/she shall be eligible to receive a sick day(s) as per the provisions of Article 13.
(d)	An employee shall not be eligible to accumulate benefits under Article 13, and 23.5 during their absence of more than twelve months.
8.4.3.3	Full-time employees who do not have five years of service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be entitled to the provisions of Article 13, and 23.5 on the basis of one fifty-second (1/52nd) for each week of active employment.
8.5	If an employee is ill when recalled to work, Article 8.4 to 8.4.3.3 will apply.
8.6	An employee who is promoted out of the bargaining unit shall retain his/her seniority rights for a period of six (6) months, said period to be included in the seniority rating, in the case of demotion, voluntary return to the bargaining unit or abolishment of the position.
8.7	The Employer agrees to post seniority lists by seniority group. The lists will be posted at the conclusion of each fiscal quarter i.e. end of January, April, July and October. It is the responsibility of all employees to immediately notify the Employer of any errors in the listings. The Union is to receive copies plus a master list showing Employer seniority.
8.8	Casuals shall not attain seniority and shall not be subject to the terms of this Agreement. Summer students shall attain seniority in accordance with the provisions of Article 4. The provisions of the Nova Scotia Labour Standards Code Act shall cover casuals and summer students.
- 7 -
ARTICLE 9 - PROMOTIONS, LAY-OFFS, REHIRING AND JOB OPENINGS
9.1
9.2.
9.2.1
9.2.2
9.2.3
Vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be filled in order of seniority, provided the candidate is qualified as defined in 9.2.3 and subject to the provisions of this Article..
Subject to Article 9.4 below, announcements of opening for all jobs within the bargaining unit (including unclassified positions) will be posted by 9:00 am on Tuesday for a period of three working days. Job bids are due by midnight Thursday and the successful candidate will be notified on Friday of the same week. In the event there is a holiday, deadlines for the posting procedure will be extended and concluded on the following Monday. Employees may access job announcements in the following manner.
A)	Physical bulletin boards located at each plant facility or branch
B)	Employee telephone information centre:
835-4005 or 1-800-574-5585
At main greeting, press 5
Enter security code: 38888
C)	Employer’s Web Page: @ www.farmersdairy.ca
Careers section
ID: Farmers / Password: Dairy.
(a)	A job posting shall show:
(i)	The classification of the job;
(ii)	Department;
(iii)	The days and hours of work;
(iv)	The salary;
(v)	The shift premium (if applicable);
(vi)	The qualifications	or	skills and training
requirements (if applicable).
(b)	When posting an original job vacancy as per article 9.4 the job may be changed at the time of a posting (i.e. days and hours)
Employees wishing to apply for a job vacancy must apply in writing to Human Resources. An applicant may request a signed receipt for his/her job bid.
(a)	If the posted job is in driving, the trades, or the quality control lab (not the processing lab), the Employer will include the required qualifications on the posting, and an applicant will not be considered qualified unless he/she possesses the specified qualifications. (For driver qualifications, see Appendix “J”. For trades qualifications, see Appendices “D”, and “I”. Quality control qualification is a two-year food technology or lab technology diploma or equivalent training or experience.)
(b)	For all other jobs, the skills and training requirements may be set out on the posting. An applicant will be considered qualified unless the Employer reasonably determines that he/she will not be able to demonstrate the ability to successfully perform the job within the twenty-five (25) working day period referred to in Article 9.3 below.
- 8 -
9.2.4
Observation Period
(a)	If the successful candidate has previously performed or otherwise become familiar with the job he/she will be awarded the job
(b)	If the successful candidate has not previously performed or otherwise become familiar with the job applied for, he/she will be allowed two (2) full shifts to observe the job being performed and determine his desire for the job.
(c)	If the successful candidate is from another area (outside workers, inside workers, branches) and has not previously performed or otherwise become familiar with the job applied for, he/she will be allowed up to five (5) full shifts equal to 40 hours or 45 hours for specific driving positions to observe the job being performed and determine his/her desire for the job.
(d)	If the most successful candidate either does not want or is not confirmed in the job, the next successful applicant will be granted the same opportunity to observe the job being performed.
(e)	During the observation period an employee will continue to receive their normal hourly rate.
(f)	Hourly paid employees scheduled to perform an observation period for a salaried position for a full week will be paid 40 hours.
(g)	Hourly paid employees scheduled to perform an observation period for a salaried position for less than a full week will be paid as follows:
(i)	Those employees who work a 5 day work week will be paid a minimum of 8 hours plus the applicable rate for hours worked in excess of their normal day for the day(s) of the observation period.
(ii)	Those employees who work a 4 day work week will be paid a minimum of 10 hours plus the applicable rate for hours worked in excess of their normal day for the day(s) of the observation period.
(iii)	Those employees who work a 3 day work week will be paid a minimum of 13 hours plus the applicable rate for hours worked in excess of their normal day for the day(s) of the observation period.
9.2.5	All job openings will be awarded within five (5) working days of the completion
of the observation period(s) referred to above, and the successful bidder will be placed on the awarded job within a period not to exceed eight (8) weeks from the date of the award.
9.3	An employee to whom a job has been awarded will have a period of within
twenty-five (25) working days from the date of being placed on the job to receive training and to successfully perform the job. In most cases, the Employer will confirm an employee in the job at or prior to the end of the twenty-five (25) working day period. This twenty-five (25) working day period may be extended by the Employer in the case of jobs that require more than twenty-five (25) working days to learn. If, during the twenty-five (25) working day period (or such extended period as may have been determined by the Employer) the employee is unable to successfully perform the job, he/she will be
- 9 -
returned to his/her former job.
9.3.1	During any such period of training, the employee will be paid 90% of the full rate for the awarded job.
9.4	Each original job vacancy will result in a maximum of two postings (one to fill the original vacancy and the second to fill the vacancy created by the filling of the original vacancy) unless for either (or both) of these two postings there is a combination of observation and training periods not exceeding five (5) days, in which case there will be a third posting, to fill the vacancy created by the posting of the second vacancy. The second and, if applicable, the third postings resulting from the posting of the original opening shall be marked as such. The vacant position which is available following the completion of the posting/bidding process will be awarded to the most senior employee from that department who is interested in taking on the position. In the event there is no such senior employee, the remaining applicants for the previous two (or three, as the case may be) postings will be canvassed in order of seniority for interest in filling the vacancy. Finally, if the vacancy remains unfilled, the unclassified employee who is senior on the seniority list for the “side” where the vacancy exists will be assigned the job. In all of the foregoing circumstances (the senior employee, the remaining applicants and the senior unclassified employee), the provisions of Articles 9.2.3, 9.2.4, 9.2.5, 9.3 and 9.3.1 will apply so that the employee in question will be treated as though he/she had applied for the position in the first place (except that 9.2.4 and 9.3.1 will not apply to the senior unclassified employee, who will hold his/her unclassified rate during any training period).
9.5	An employee who is new in a job as a result of a bid shall not bid on any posting for a period equal to 6 (six) times the amount of training required before the individual was deemed to be qualified up to a maximum of 24 months (these times may be reduced by management).
9.5.1	For the purpose of this article the training period will be expressed in weeks (part weeks will be rounded) and is deemed to be the time in which two people are assigned to the job.
9.5.2	Employees bidding into a Floater, Unclassified or Spare driver position shall be required to stay in the position for a period of 6 months.
9.6	A job shall not be considered vacant if an employee is absent through sickness or injury or authorized leave. If it is known that an employee will be absent for more than 25 days but less than 26 weeks, the staff within the department will be canvassed, with the most senior employee applying being assigned to the work provided retraining is not necessary for that person or his/her replacement. Upon completion of the temporary assignment, the employee shall be returned to his/her former job.
9.6.1	If it is determined an employee will be absent for more than 26 weeks the Employer may elect to post the position. The posting will indicate that the vacancy is as the result of an employee’s absence. Candidates applying for the position will be aware that should the employee return to work he/she may be bumped from the position. The employee who has been bumped may exercise his/her seniority rights as per Article 9.10 of the Collective Agreement.
9.6.2	If not previously posted the position will be posted after the employee has been absent for two years.
9.7	Where a senior applicant does not receive the position applied for, he/she shall
- 10 -
be able to request of the appropriate manager the reason why his/her application was refused.
9.8	Absent employees may contact the Human Resource Department for information on current job openings.
9.9	If the Employer does not intend to fill a vacancy, it will notify the Union accordingly within two (2) weeks of the position being vacated.
9.10	Layoff and Bumping:
9.10.1	For the purposes of Article 9.10, a job will be defined as a specific work assignment in a department, and will include the classification and shift (hours and days).
For the purpose of this article a shift change will be defined as being longer than a week in duration and is expected at the time of the change to last more than 4 weeks.
9.10.2	An employee will be deemed “displaced” from their job as a result of any of the following circumstances:
(a)	The employee receives a notice from the Employer that his position will be eliminated. A reduction in work of one week or less is not job elimination but will be considered a transfer as per Article 14.18.
(b)	If the employee’s job has a shift change or a series of shift changes over time that results in a shift that is more than 3 hours different from the posted job he/she was awarded and such change is not acceptable to the employee. If an employee accepts a shift change or over time, a series of shift changes that causes his new shift to be more than 3 hours from the posted job, this new shift will be deemed to be his/her posted job.
(c)	If the number of days an employee works in a week changes and such change is not acceptable to the employee. If an employee accepts the change in the number of days worked in a week, this new shift will be deemed to be his/her posted job
It is the employee’s responsibility to notify management that a shift change or a series of shift changes exceeds the 3 hours or a change in the number of days worked is not suitable at the time of the change or he/she is considered to have accepted the new hours, or the new number of days they will work in a week.
(d)	Article 9.10.2 (b) and (c) will not apply to floaters or spare drivers.
9.10.3	If as a result of a shift change of hours (B above) or a change of days (C above) a vacancy exists, the “changed” job will be posted as per the job posting procedures. If more than one person is performing the same job on the same shift, the “changed” job will be first offered to those employees on that shift in order of seniority. If no employee on that shift accepts the “changed” job, the “changed” job will be posted as per the job posting procedures.
9.10.4	An employee who has been displaced from their job can bump by indicating on forms provided by the Employer within two full weekdays of his /her choice of the job of any junior employee in the bargaining unit whose job they have performed and were previously deemed qualified or will be able to
- 11 -
perform the job with a familiarization period of 5 days or less.
9.10.5	If an employee chooses not to bump as per Article 9.10.4 that employee will be allowed to bump any employee junior to him/her who is the junior employee in any classification in any department in the bargaining unit subject to the following conditions.
(a)	In order to bump into driving, trades and quality control jobs, an employee must be able to meet the bumping criteria agreed to by the Employer and the Union for the job. (For driving bumping criteria, see Appendix “J”. For trades bumping criteria, see Appendices “D”, and “I. Quality control bumping criterion is a two-year food technology or lab technology diploma or equivalent training or experience.)
(b)	For all other jobs, there must be the expectation that an employee will be able to do the job within the period of time that would be required by the average employee to learn that job.
(c)	Where there are jobs in a classification in more than one geographic location (i.e., Bedford plant, Middleton spreads plant, distribution centres) within the bargaining unit, the job(s) in that classification will be considered a separate classification in each geographic location so that an employee will not be required to move from one city or town to another in order to avail him/herself of his/her right to bump a junior employee.
A weekend shift job will be defined as a separate classification distinct from the classification that includes the same weekday shift jobs.
(d)	An employee will be paid the rate for that job he/she bumps into as of the date of the bump, except that if an employee’s weekly earnings in his/her old job are lower than the weekly earnings of the position he/she is bumping into, the employee will continue to receive the weekly earnings of his/her old job for the period of time referred to in Article 9.10.5 (b) above.
(e)	If an employee proves unable to do the job he/she has bumped into within a reasonable period of time (at least the period of time that would be required by an average employee), he/she will then bump into the job held by the most junior employee in his/her geographic location he/she is qualified to do. If there is no job he/she is qualified to do which is held by an employee junior to the one he/she first bumped into, he/she will be laid off.
9.10.6	If an employee chooses not to bump as per Article 9.10.4 and 9.10.5 he/she will be laid off.
9.10.7	The foregoing provisions Article 9.10.4 through 9.10.6 will also apply to any employee displaced by a bump.
9.10.8. Seven (7) calendar days notice will be given to an employee who will be laid off from active employment.
9.10.9 At the time of a layoff another employee in the department who is not affected by the layoff may express their interest in taking a layoff. In this case the employee may take a layoff from active employment and work as per Article
- 12 -
9.11.2	or request to be considered for a severance allowance as per Article 25, they will not be granted bumping options. In either case the request will be subject to management approval.
9.10.10	Notwithstanding Article 8.1.1 to 8.1.4, there will, for the purposes of this Article, be one seniority list for the whole bargaining unit with the exception of part-time merchandisers, who will have a separate seniority list.
9.10.11	In the case of a full-time employee who moves into a part-time merchandiser position he/she shall be entitled to only the provisions of the Collective Agreement which pertain to part-time merchandisers while working in the parttime merchandiser position.
9.11	Rights of Laid Off Employees
9.11.1	An employee who is laid off shall retain his/her seniority for a period of twelve (12) months from the last day on which he/she worked.
9.11.2	Where the Employer has forty (40) or more hours of work available within the Employer’s work week (Monday to Sunday inclusive), it will recall the employee on layoff with the most seniority who is able to do the work in question. An employee on layoff must accept any recall offered to him/her unless he/she has a reasonable excuse (which includes approved training). If personal circumstances necessitate (for example, arranging for child care), an employee can delay being recalled for up to twenty- four (24) hours after the time he/she is to report for work. However, the employee must advise the Employer at the time of the recall of his/her need to delay reporting before the delay in reporting will be excused.
9.11.3	Where the Employer has less than forty (40) hours of work available within the Employer’s work week (Monday to Sunday inclusive), it will get that work done by first offering it to the senior person with recall rights able to do the work in question who has indicated his/her desire and ability to respond to a short-notice shift, in accordance with the following procedure:
(a)	A laid-off employee who wishes to be recalled for work for less than forty hours at a time must telephone the Employer by 10 a.m. each Friday morning to put his/her name on the list for the following week. For each week, this list of names of laid-off employees will constitute the “Short Notice Work List”.
(b)	During each week, work will be offered to the laid-off employees o n the Short Notice Work List for the week in order of seniority provided the employee is able to do the work in question. The laid-off employees on the Short Notice Work List must remain available by their telephones between 8:30 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. each day during the week to receive offers of work.
(c)	A laid-off employee on the Short Notice Work List must call the Employer and take him/herself off the Short Notice Work List if his/her circumstances change during the week and he/she is no longer able to respond to an offer of work during that week.
(d)	If, on any given day, no laid-off employee on the Short Notice Work List accepts an offer of work, the Employer will require these laid-off employees to work in reverse order of seniority.
- 13 -
9.11.4
9.11.5
9.11.6
9.12.
9.13
9.14
9.15 9.15.1
(e)	A laid-off employee on the Short Notice Work List who turns down an offer of work more than three (3) times in a thirty (30) day period will not be permitted to put his/her name on the Short Notice Work List for a further thirty (30) day period.
An employee on layoff will not be required to respond to a recall to work until after the expiry of seven (7) calendar days from the date of layoff.
If, within six (6) months (9 months for ice cream drivers), the former job of an employee who was displaced by the elimination of work or the bump of another employee reappears (as distinct from a vacancy caused by an employee leaving the department), he/she is entitled to return to that former job before it is filled by any other means. If more than one employee was displaced from the classification in which the work reappears, entitlement to return will be on the basis of seniority. Any other employee who had been displaced by a bumping employee now returning to his/her former job will also have the right to return to his/her former job.
Any employee bumping into a position shall not be allowed to bid on any postings for a period equal to six (6) times the amount of the training period required before the individual was deemed to be qualified up to a maximum of 24 months (unless agreed to by management).
(a)	For the purpose of this article the training period will be expressed in weeks and is deemed to be the time in which two people are assigned to the job.
(b)	Employees bumping into a Floater or Spare driver position shall be required to stay in the position for a period of 6 months.
When a vacancy that exceeds or is expected to exceed nine (9) months in duration (or twenty-four (24) months in the case of a requirement to fill in for an absent employee) arises in a department, it must be posted and made available to be filled in accordance with the regular job posting procedures before an employee on layoff can be permanently recalled into it.
A laid off employee will be entitled to continued group insurance benefits (with the exception of short-term and long-term disability insurance benefits) if he/she continues to pay his/her share of the premiums during the twelve (12) month period referred to Article 9.11.1. During this twelve (12) month period, a laid off employee can also continue to participate in the Employer’s pension plan, and have the time on layoff credited as pensionable service, by continuing to pay his/her pension contribution during the period of layoff. When a laid off employee is recalled, his/her vacation, sick days and Christmas bonus will be reduced by one fifty-second (1/52) for every week he/she is on layoff for the entire week.
Casuals or students will not be utilized if they prevent the recall of a laid-off employee.
Hybrid Positions
If the Employer eliminates a position because of a reduction of hours of a classified position (more than one full shift) and provides the incumbent notice as per Article 9.10.8, the Employer will, if possible, create a full time position (40 hours) by combining work between two (2) departments. This position will be referred to as a Hybrid position. This hybrid position will first
- 14 -
be offered to the incumbent who has been displaced. If the incumbent does not wish to accept the position, it will be posted and the incumbent will be displaced as per Article 9.10. It is agreed that hybrid positions will be inside jobs only and the two departments where the employee will be working will be on the same side (i.e. production or shipping) but not both
9.15.2	When the hybrid position is created, a specific department will be designated and identified on the job posting as the primary department. Employees will not be required to work in different departments on the same day; each daily shift will be scheduled within a single department. If the hybrid position’s work falls into two different wage classifications, the hybrid position will, for all purposes, pay the wage of the higher classification.
9.15.3	When there is a regular and reoccurring increase in the scheduled number of hours to be worked in the primary department, that work will be assigned to the hybrid employee and his/her scheduled work in the secondary department will be assigned as extra work as per Article 14.6.1.
9.15.4	When there is a reduction in the number of people within the primary or secondary department, the hybrid position will be the first position to be eliminated.
9.15.5	Where operationally possible, the Employer will not use hybrid positions but will create jobs within a single department. An employee will not be considered transferred as per Article 14.18 if he/she has been awarded a hybrid position and is regularly scheduled to work between two departments.
ARTICLE 10 - FLOATERS
10.1.	Floaters
10.1.1	Employees classified in trades or driver positions are excluded from the application of this article.
10.2	A floater is expected to:
a)	be able to perform at least 90% of the duties in the department;
b)	undergo shift changes on short notice;
c)	be called first for relief (this does not include overtime to which the floater would not otherwise be entitled); and
d)	cover employee absences and meet production needs (this does not include overtime to which the floater would not otherwise be entitled).
10.3	Article 14.7 to 14.7.6 does not apply to floaters.
10.4. If a floater who normally works Monday to Friday works a weekend shift, he/she will be entitled to the premium pay provided for by Article 14.2 to 14.2.1 and
14.3	to 14.3.1. (Premium pay will not be paid when the floater job in question regularly involves weekend work.)
10.5	A floater will be paid the premium pay provided for by Article 14.2 to 14.2.1 and 14.3 to 14.3.1 for work performed in excess of eight or ten hours in a day. A floater has the right to refuse to work a second shift in a day if that second shift is at straight time rates.
10.6	Floaters will be selected by first canvassing the employees in the department. The employee who expresses an interest in the position (or, if more than one employee expresses an interest in the position, in order of seniority) will be given a twenty-five (25) working day trial period within which it will be
- 15 -
10.7
ARTICLE
11.1
11.2
11.3
ARTICLE
12.1
12.2
12.3
12.4
12.5
determined whether the employee is going to be able to do the job. If the position is not filled through this process, it will be posted.
Apart from the provisions of this Article, the floater classification will be treated the same as the other classifications in the bargaining unit. The maximum number of floaters will be limited to three (3) in milk shipping, one (1) in processing, two (2) in UHT, three (3) in ice cream, (1) in Middleton and two (2) in milk filling.
11	- DISCHARGE
In all cases involving the discharge of an employee, the Employer must immediately notify the discharged employee, in writing, of his/her discharge and the reason therefore.
Any discharged employee must be paid, in full, all wages owed to the employee by the Employer, including earned vacation pay, if any, within ten (10) working days from the date of discharge and after any legal liability to the Employer has been paid or satisfied.
A claim, by an employee, that the employee has been unjustly discharged from employment shall be submitted in writing as a grievance and presented to the Manager or the responsible representative, within five (5) working days from date of discharge and such grievance will be accepted at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
12	- PAID HOLIDAYS
New Years Day, Good Friday, the day observed as the Queen's Birthday, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and Heritage Day if proclaimed a legal holiday, shall be paid holidays, provided nevertheless that if because of paid holidays, three off days occur consecutively, one of such off days as determined by the Employer shall be worked as a regular working day.
Any employee absent without good cause satisfactory to the Employer on the working day preceding or the working day following any of these holidays will not receive the benefit of the provisions of this Article 12 or be permitted to use the sick days referred to in Article 13.13. For the holiday in question, when an employee is required to work on any of the above mentioned holidays, the employee shall be remunerated at the rate of double time for the work performed on such paid holiday in addition to the holiday pay.
The Employer agrees that should a paid holiday occur on an employee's day off, such employee shall be compensated with an additional day's pay or a day off in lieu of the holiday, the choice between the day's pay or the day off to be at the discretion of the employee. If a day off is chosen, such day off must be scheduled within four months after the holiday in question unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Employer and employee for the advantage of the employee.
Non-probationary employees who are laid off ten or less working days prior to a holiday shall be paid for the holiday.
When a paid holiday occurs on a scheduled day off, and the employee is not required to work, he/she shall be paid:
- 16 -
one fifth of regular weekly wage if working a 5 day week one quarter of regular weekly wage if working a 4 day week
12.5.1	When a paid holiday occurs on a scheduled work day, and the employee is not required to work, he/she shall be paid:
one fifth of regular weekly wage if working a 5 day week
one quarter of regular weekly wage if working a 4 day week
12.6. An employee shall not be entitled to receive holiday pay pursuant to this article for any holiday which falls within the time period in which the employee is also qualified to receive Short Term Disability, Long Term Disability or Workers Compensation Benefits.
12.7	Work which occurs on holidays shall be assigned by the same procedure as work on a callback or call-in as per Article 14.11.4. The Bulk Tank Hauling Department will continue to follow their current procedures for assigning work on holidays.
ARTICLE 13 - PAID VACATION AND PAID ABSENCES
13.1	Vacation, banked statutory holidays, personal days and Banked Overtime are all pooled as Paid Absences and can be taken as paid time off in one of three ways, vacation, personal leave as defined in article 13.13.2, and paid leave. Time can be taken in less than full day blocks.
13.1.1	With the exception of Sick Leave and Scheduled Vacations, requests for Paid Absences will be considered on a first come, first served basis.
13.2 The Employer agrees to grant vacation entitlement on the anniversary of the employee's hiring date, however, the vacation year is January 1 - December 31
13.2.1	The Employer will endeavour to grant employees vacations as requested throughout the year provided, however, that sufficient trained vacation replacements are available so as not to prevent the Employer from operating in an efficient, effective manner to meet the needs of our customers. Employees are required to take all of the vacation time to which they are entitled, and all employees who want to take their full vacation time entitlement may do so, subject to the scheduling provisions of this Article.
13. 3 Each employee who has completed one (1) year’s continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay.
13.3.1	Each employee who has completed five (5) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay.
13.3.2	Each employee who has completed ten (10) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay.
13.3.3	Each employee who has completed twenty (20) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation with pay.
13.3.4	Each employee who has completed twenty-five (25) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation with pay.
13.3.5	For each of Articles 13.3 through 13.3.4, employees will be granted the extra week of vacation in the vacation year that they achieve the next continuous service threshold. By way of illustration, the first vacation year in which an employee will get three (3) weeks vacation is the vacation year in which his five
- 17 -
year anniversary falls. However, the third week of vacation may not be taken until after the employee’s anniversary date.
13.3.6	The pay referred to in Article 13.3 to 13.3.4 inclusive, for all full-time employees, shall be the greater of:
(i)	the straight time hourly earnings, at the time of vacation, multiplied by the number of hours in the employee's work week for each week of vacation entitlement.
OR
(ii)	two & one half percent (2.5%) for each week of vacation entitlement, multiplied by the figure which results from the gross earnings in the previous calendar year being reduced by Christmas bonus.
13.4	Any employee entitled to such one, two, three, four, five or six weeks vacation with pay when is discharged, leaves of his/her own accord, or is laid off due to lack of work prior to taking such vacation shall be compensated at the rate of pay he/she would have received for such vacation.
13.5	Employees who become ill or are injured prior to or during their scheduled vacation may postpone the vacation (or the remainder of the vacation) if the Employer is satisfied that the following conditions are met:
(a)	the illness or injury is sufficiently severe that the employee is confined to bed or hospitalized for three days or more;
(b)	the employee is incapable of taking the vacation he/she had planned;
(c)	the employee is incapable of performing his/her normal duties; and
(d)	the employee provides satisfactory medical information confirming that all of these conditions have been met.
13.5.1	The vacation days that may be postponed under Article 13.4 above are those days remaining in the particular block of vacation. The postponed vacation will be rescheduled by the Employer to a time convenient to the Employer and to a time that does not affect the scheduled vacations of any other employees.
13.5.2	As long as the employee is receiving short-term disability benefits, he/she will remain off work. However, once the employee’s doctor indicates that the employee is fit to return to work, the employee will either come back to work or continue with the balance of his/her vacation, at the option of the Employer.
13.5.3	If the employee whose vacation is postponed has received his/her vacation pay in advance of the vacation, the vacation pay relating to the postponed vacation must be repaid to the Employer prior to a claim for short-term disability benefits being filed. (It is understood that if the employee fails to repay the vacation pay, he/she will not be able to access short-term disability benefits.)
13.6	The choice of vacation periods of driver-salespersons shall be according to seniority ratings.
13.7	Employees shall not be permitted to accumulate vacation periods from year to year except when proven illness or injury prevents them from using their earned vacation for the year in which they were absent.
13.8	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it shall be understood that the Employer will recognize the years of continuous service that an employee has had with any Company Farmers Co-operative Dairy has purchased, and such employee(s) shall be entitled to the full vacation benefits of this Agreement as if
- 18 -
13.9
13.9.1
13.9.2
13.10
13.10.1
13.10.2
13.10.3
13.10.4
13.10.5
13.10.6
the years of service were with Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited (not applicable to companies purchased after September 1, 1972).
For the purpose of scheduling vacations, a week will be considered a 7-day period beginning with the first day of the Employer’s workweek, which is Monday to Sunday inclusive. The vacation week shall be considered to have started on the Monday of the calendar week that they requested off. During this seven-day vacation period the employee will not be considered available for regular work or overtime except under Article 13.10.7 when there are no alternatives available.
This will also include employees that do not have a normal workweek due to varied schedules e.g. spare, floater or unclassified.
Employees who work as Bulk Tank Drivers or Stationary Engineers will have a vacation week that starts with the first day they are scheduled off on vacation and will continue for the next six days (five days for Stationary Engineers) exclusive of the first day. During this seven-day vacation period the employee will not be considered available for regular work or overtime except under Article 13.10.7 when there are no alternatives available.
The vacation list shall be posted no later than December 1st for the following vacation year (January 1 - December 31).
All employees shall submit their preferred vacation dates to the Employer by January 1st and each employee is entitled to use seniority to establish a claim for two (1) one week blocks of their vacation entitlement.
Having thus established the vacation priorities for two weeks for all employees, employees may then exercise seniority to schedule, in one week blocks, the balance of their vacation entitlement for periods which may be available within their department in accordance with provisions of this Contract.
After the vacation schedule is completed employees may, if available, reschedule vacation on a day-by-day basis, such rescheduling will be in accordance with the rules for paid absence. For example, if an employee wishes to take one day in September they may draw it from a week, which was scheduled by the supervisor for later in that year. Weeks that include a holiday will be considered full week blocks for the purpose of this article.
Any weeks not requested will be scheduled by the supervisor in order of seniority starting with the first available vacation week closest to end of the calendar year.
The Employer shall post the vacation lists no later than January 15th and employees shall have two weeks from the posted date to register a protest. Any employee who does not apply for their vacation dates by January 31st shall not have the right to protest. The vacation list will be considered final as of January 31st, and the final list will be posted.
Employees shall only be allowed a maximum of two (2) weeks vacation during the summer vacation period unless it is mutually agreed between the Employer and the employee for the employee to receive extra weeks of vacation. Any extra weeks of vacation granted shall not interfere with other employees' vacation.
Should an employee's vacation be cancelled or altered by the Employer, the employee shall be reimbursed for the non-returnable portion of vacation contracts and reservations provided satisfactory proof of such amounts are
- 19 -
13.10.7
13.10.8
13.11
13.12
13.13
13.13.1
13.13.2
13.13.3
13.13.4
provided by the employee and that such contracts and reservations are through public carriers and bona fide agencies.
Should an employee be called back to work while on his/her scheduled vacation, he/she shall be compensated at two times his/her regular rate of pay for the time worked or granted double time off at a future date at the discretion of the manager.
Notwithstanding anything else herein contained, vacations for ice cream employees shall be subject to the following conditions: A maximum of five employees on vacation at one time and not more than two weeks vacation for any one employee during the period May 1st to October 1st unless agreed to by management.
The Employer agrees that should a paid holiday occur during an employee's vacation, such employee shall be compensated with an additional days pay or a day off in lieu of the holiday, the choice between the days pay or the day off to be at the discretion of the employee. If a day off is chosen, such day off must be scheduled within four months after the holiday in question unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Employer and the employee.
Once the final vacation schedule is posted, there can be no changes by either party except by mutual consent other than emergency conditions when the needs of our customers shall be paramount.
Personal Leave
The Employer agrees to allow six (6) days (equivalent to 48 hours for those on a five day work week or to 50 hours for those on a 4 day work week) off with pay per calendar year for personal days.
New employees will be credited at the time of hiring with a pro-rated number of personal days for use during the balance of the calendar year in which they are hired. On the first January 1st following a new employee’s date of hire, he/she will begin to be covered by the provisions of Article 13.13 above.
Personal leave is a paid Leave of Absence to cover employees;
(a)	Who are unable to work due to personal sickness,
(b)	Who have an emergency care giver issue i.e. a member of their immediate family is sick and there is no other option other than the employee for short term care,
(c)	Who have a domestic emergency that requires their personal immediate attention,
(d)	Who are unable to travel to work due to severe weather conditions.
Because of the emergency nature of personal leave no prior approval is required; however employees may be required to provide proof satisfactory to the Employer that the use of personal leave was justified and in the cases of leave for family sickness, domestic emergency or absences due to weather that all reasonable effort was made to make alternate arrangements.
It is understood and agreed between the Employer and the Union that a false report of sickness by any employee shall be grounds for discipline, up to and including dismissal of the employee, and any employee so disciplined shall also forfeit to the Employer any amount of sickness benefits otherwise payable to
- 20 -
13.13.5
13.13.6
13.13.7
13.13.8
13.14
13.14.1
13.14.2
13.15
13.16
ARTICLE
14.1.
14.1.1.
him/her.
Employees must call their supervisor prior to their shift with as much advance notice as possible.
On or about the last Friday in January of each year, the Employer will payout any Personal Days credited but not claimed during the previous calendar year.
Any employee who leaves the employ of the Employer of his/her own accord, or is discharged, and has received sickness pay under this Article in excess of the amount entitled, shall pay the Employer the amount of such excess, or the Employer may deduct the amount of such excess from any amount owed to the employee by the Employer at the time the employee leaves or is discharged.
All full time employees who are off on STD or WCB will be required to pay LTD premiums for the period which they are off. The Employer will pay medical and dental premiums during the period they are off.
Paid Leave and Rescheduled Vacation.
Notice period of less than 2 weeks notice (Short Notice):
Employees, at the Employer’s discretion, which will be based on work requirements and the availability of others to do the work, may be granted scheduled paid leave of absences. Employees should, if feasible and with as much notice as possible, make written application on forms provided by their supervisor. It is agreed that with the exception of unclassifieds, spare drivers, and floaters, no regular employees will be forced to change a shift to accommodate another employee’s Short Notice leave. If an employee and his supervisor mutually agree on a day off and it is scheduled, it should not be cancelled. However if it cancelled, the employee will receive a ^ basic penalty payment for all hours worked.
Notice period of 2 weeks or more:
Employees requesting paid leave of absences with two weeks or more notice must do so in writing on forms provided by their supervisor with as much notice as possible. The Employer will reply to the request within one week. The Employer will accommodate and schedule the request, where there is a qualified unclassified, spare driver or floater available. Once scheduled, the leave will not be cancelled unless absolutely necessary and the employee will receive a ^ basic penalty payment for all hours worked.
Personal Leave, regardless of notice, will be compensated by first using banked time (overtime and statutory holidays) and then personal days. Only if there are no remaining personal days, banked time or banked holidays may an employee, at his/her choice, take the personal leave as unpaid leave or use scheduled vacation.
If the employee wishes to cancel a scheduled day of paid leave, it shall be at the discretion of the supervisor.
14 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
The overall Employer’s workweek is Monday to Sunday inclusive. An individual's workweek is within those days.
An individual workweek will be 5 days of 8 hours each or 4 days of 10 hours each.
- 21 -
14.1.2	The workweek will be posted showing the days to be worked and the days off.
14.2	Inside workers working a regular 5 day week will work:
a)	Monday to Friday inclusive
b)	8 hours per day
c)	when an employee works in excess of 8 hours per day, he/she will be paid at the rate of time and one half.
14.2.1	Inside workers working the regular 5 day workweek above who are called in on Saturdays or Sundays will receive pay as scheduled below:
a)	Saturdays - time and one half
b)	Sundays - double time
14.3	Inside workers working a regular 4 day week will work:
a)	within Monday to Friday	inclusive
b)	10 hours per day
c)	when an employee works more than 10 hours per day, he/she will be paid at the rate of time and one half
14.3.1.	Inside workers working the regular 4 day work week above who are called in to work on their scheduled days off will be paid:
a)	on their scheduled single day off - time and one half
b)	Saturday - time and one half
c)	Sunday - double time
14.4	Employees who by the nature of their jobs have a normal workweek other than the regular week in Article 14.2 and 14.3 above shall have two consecutive days off.
14.4.1	When as a result of a shift change, an employee on a five day schedule must work six or more consecutive days, the 6th consecutive day of work will be paid at time and one half.
14.4.2	When as a result of a shift change, an employee on a four day schedule must work 5 or more consecutive days, the 5th consecutive day of work will be paid at time and one half.
14.4.3. This will not apply in cases where the change is made at the request of the employee.
14.4.4	It is mutually agreed that nothing in the foregoing shall imply the guarantee of a forty hour week.
14.5	Employees working as in Article 14.4 who are called in to work on their scheduled days off will be paid as follows:
(a)	for the scheduled single day off on a 4 day work schedule - time and one half
(b)	for the first of the 2 consecutive days off - time and one half
(c)	for the second of the 2 consecutive days off - double time.
14.6	These provisions apply to all bargaining unit work except merchandising.
14.6.1	“Extra work” is any work the Employer requires beyond that performed by regular employees on scheduled, normal workweeks.
14.6.2	Notwithstanding Article 9.12, extra work will be assigned daily in the following
- 22 -
order and manner:
(a)	as provided for in Article 14.18, by transferring available regular employees who are at work,
(b)	in accordance with Article 9.12, by recalling any employees who are on lay off,
(c)	if there is still work the Employer requires performed, it may, subject to the conditions set forth below, employ an unclassified employee,
(d)	if there is still work that the Employer requires performed, it must offer that work to regular employees on an overtime basis in accordance with this Article 14.
14.6.3	Only if it is not possible to get the work performed using one of the above means may the Employer employ casuals. Before employing casuals the Employer must first offer the work as casual employment to available qualified unclassified employees.
14.6.4	When assigning extra work the Employer may skip the discretionary steps (a) and (c) and, for less than a full shift, step (b) in Article 14.6.2. In cases of replacing a regular employee who is off work for at least a full shift because of sickness, vacation or other absence the Employer may skip 14.6.2 Step (d).
14.6.5	If a casual or unclassified works because no regular employee is available for the extra work, he/she will be allowed to work to a maximum of four hours. If work is still required after the four hours and regular employees become available because their shifts have ended during the four hours of the casual or unclassifieds assignment, it will be offered to these regular employees as overtime.
14.6.6	Replacing employees:
If an employee who has started a shift leaves prior to its scheduled finish and an unclassified or casual is properly assigned to complete the work of the absent employee, the unclassified or casual is allowed to work to a maximum of the total hours of the scheduled shift less any hours worked by the employee prior to leaving. The commencement of the unclassified’s assignment need not necessarily be contiguous to the departure of the regular employee. In all cases of absence the unclassified can only do the work of the regular employee he/she is replacing or the work of the regular employee who is replacing the absent employee (one bump maximum).
14.6.7	Terms and Conditions for Unclassified Workers:
(a)	Unclassified employees shall only be utilized:
(i)	to replace regular employees who are off work for a full day because of sickness, vacation or other absence,
(ii)	when workers are required to replace broken machinery, but not to increase production, or when there is a requirement for regular and recurring extra work (including co-pack) that is scheduled at least seven days in advance of the assignment.
Due to the requirements of the unclassified position, he/she must be trained to perform the duties of as many positions as possible, and can therefore be scheduled for training on an as-needed basis. Their assignment to training is not considered “extra work” for the purposes of this Article.
- 23 -
(b)	Unclassified workers are members of the bargaining unit and covered by the collective agreement.
(c)	Apart from this Article 14.6.7, the provisions of Article 14 do not apply to unclassified workers.
(d)	Unclassified employees will be paid overtime after 40 regular hours in a week.
(e)	Their rate of pay is the plant labour rate and they have all the benefits of regular employees. Benefits will be prorated based on the hours they work (twenty week average). Uniforms will be issued as required.
(f)	Their seniority is calculated on the basis that 40 hours of work equals one week’s seniority.
(g)	There shall be no more than seven unclassified employees without the written agreement of the Grievance Committee.
(h)	Work will be assigned to unclassifieds in the order of their seniority. There shall be three distinct seniority lists (“sides”), one for each of production, distribution, and drivers. If they are qualified, unclassifieds may on a per day basis work on any side, although each unclassified will have a “home” location of one of the three lists. They will have separate seniority for each side and only the work performed on a side will earn credit on that side’s seniority list. If hired to a regular position the employee will be credited with the total seniority of all three lists.
(i)	When a vacancy exists and no regular employee or unclassified employee successfully bids for the job, the senior qualified unclassified in whose “home” location the vacancy exists will be forced to take the position.
(j)	An unclassified worker cannot be used if a regular employee who is able to perform the work is on layoff or scheduled to work less than 40 hours in that week.
14.6.8	All of the foregoing is subject to the understanding that when an unclassified employee, a casual or a student comes in to work, it is to meet a particular need or for a specific purpose, in accordance with this Agreement. Therefore, once at work, he/she can only perform the job he/she was brought in to do.
14.7 All classified persons will be given seven (7) calendar days notice of a change of days off, unless mutually agreed between the employee and the Employer, the day the person is notified shall be considered the first of the seven days.
14.7.1	If a classified person is required to change their days off without the seven (7) calendar days notice, then he/she will be paid the premium rate of time and one half (1 1/2) or the applicable rate for off days worked without the appropriate notice, unless mutually agreed upon between the employee and Employer. The day the person is notified will be considered the first of the seven notice days.
14.7.2	The scheduled days off will not be changed in any week containing a Statutory Holiday.
14.7.3	All classified persons will be given seven (7) calendar days notice of a shift change of more than three (3) hours. The day the person is notified will be considered the first of the seven notice days.
14.7.4	If a classified person is required to change their shift without the required seven
- 24 -
14.7.5
14.7.6.
14.7.7
14.8
14.9
14.10
(7) days notice, then he/she will be paid the premium rate of time and one half (1 1/2) for all hours worked outside their regular shift for the days for which notice was not given, unless mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Employer.
All classified persons will be given twelve (12) hours notice of a shift change of three (3) hours or less.
If a classified person is required to change their shift without the required twelve (12) hours notice, then he/she will be paid the premium rate of time and one half (1 1/2) for all hours worked outside their regular shift hours for the day for which notice was not given, unless mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Employer.
At the same time an employee is notified of a shift change as provided in this article, he will also be explicitly advised that it is a “shift change” and will be provided with both a new starting time and new finishing time. Failure by the Employer to provide this information will result in full payment for the regular scheduled shift and overtime pay for any hours worked or credited outside the regular scheduled shift.
Employees will not work more than 13 continuous hours. If the employee and his/her supervisor agree an employee may exceed the 13 hour maximum, however in no circumstance will an Employee work more than 16 hours (including callback) in any 24 hour period.
When an employee works and/or is credited with more hours than his Regular Workday, it will be one of the four types of overtime;
a)	An EARLY START occurs when an employee starts work earlier than his regular workday. An EARLY START must extend into the start of his regular workday. The work assignment is expected to be one (1) hour or less in duration.
b)	An EXTENSION OF SHIFT occurs when an employee works past the end of his regular work day without any period of unpaid time, except for a meal as provided in Article 23.6. The work assignment is expected to be one (1) hour or less in duration.
c)	A CALLBACK occurs when there is “extra work” as defined in
14.6.1	that is expected to be more than one hour in duration beyond an employee’s regular workday. The employee may return to work after a period of unpaid time. A callback will not attract a minimum four (4) hour call-in pay.
d)	A CALL-IN occurs when the employer requires an employee to perform work and there is no qualified available employee on site or scheduled to perform the work in the next four (4) hours. A CALL-IN will attract a minimum four (4) hours pay at the applicable rate. An employee must be able to report within a reasonable period of time.
The Employer will post a sign-up sheet in each department for employees to indicate their willingness to work additional hours. A sheet will be dated and posted for every day of the week and will be available at least seven days in advance. Employees will be able to add their name to the sheet from the time it is posted up to 2pm of the last weekday (not Saturday, Sunday or Statutory Holiday) prior to the date on the sheet. The form of the sign-up sheet will be as agreed between the parties. Employees who consistently put their name on the
- 25 -
sign-up sheet and without valid excuse refuse to work the additional hours when called will not be allowed to put their name on a sign-up sheet for a period of two weeks.
14.11	When the employer determines that there is an overtime assignment available to employees the employer will first estimate the length of the assignment. Overtime will be assigned as follows:
14.11.1	EARLY START
If the work that is to be assigned is one (1) hour or less in duration and will continue without a break into the start of an employee’s regular workday it will be first offered to the employee who is expected to perform the work at the start of his regular workday. If there is more than one employee who would be performing the work at the start of their regular workday the EARLY START will be offered to those employees in order of seniority.
14.11.2	EXTENSION OF SHIFT
Step 1 If the work that is to be assigned is a continuation of work that is being performed at the end of an employee’s regular workday and is expected to be one hour or less in duration it will be first offered to the employee who is performing the work at the end of his regular workday. If more than one employee is performing the work that will continue at the end of the regular workday it will be offered to those employees in order of seniority.
Step 2 If the employee(s) who is performing the work is not willing to work the overtime or no employee is performing the work at the end of his regular workday, the Employer, in order of seniority, will canvass the department for qualified volunteers who are on the premises and are willing to work the one (1) hour extension.
Step 3 If the above steps do not result in the work being assigned, the Employer may, on a rotating basis starting with the least senior, force a qualified unclassified employee who is working in the Department to work if he/she is eligible. If that is not possible the Employer may, on a rotating basis starting with the least senior employee, force a qualified classified employee who is working in the department to work if he/she is eligible.
14.11.2.1	Employees can only be forced to work a maximum of one hour on an extension of shift, no more than twice in any scheduled workweek.
14.11.3	For EARLY START overtime, employees who are expected to perform the work,
or for EXTENSION OF SHIFT overtime, employees who are performing the work, will not be reassigned to perform other work that results in their not being offered the overtime assignment unless it is for valid operational needs.
14.11.4	CALLBACK AND CALL-IN
If the work assignment is estimated to be greater than one (1) hour in duration or there is still a requirement for work to be assigned after the above steps (14.11.1 and 14.11.2) the employer will offer the work to the most senior employee in the following order:
- 26 -
(a)	The work that is to be assigned will be first offered in order of seniority to qualified, classified department employees who have placed their names on the sign-up sheet.
(b)	If there is still a requirement for employees to work, the work will be offered in order of seniority to qualified, classified employees from outside the department who have placed their names on the sign-up sheet.
(c)	If there is still a requirement for employees to work, the work will be offered in order of seniority to qualified, unclassified employees who have placed their names on the sign-up sheet.
(d)	If there is still a requirement for employees to work the employer will canvass, in order of seniority, qualified, classified department employees who did not place their names on the sign-up sheet. Employees may complete a form to exclude themselves from being called for voluntary overtime in this step. Such request to be excluded from the call list may be reversed in writing at the employee’s discretion. (This does not preclude employees from being forced)
(e)	If there is still a requirement to have the work performed the employer will attempt to hire a qualified casual employee.
(f)	If there is still a requirement to have the work performed the employer will offer the assignment to the most senior employee who indicated that they were interested in the assignment should it become a four (4) hour call-in when called by their supervisor as per Article 14.11.4.1 (b). The employee will be paid four (4) hours at the applicable rate.
(g)	If there is still a requirement to have the work performed the Employer may, on a rotating basis, force a qualified unclassified employee who is eligible. The employee will be paid four (4) hours at the applicable rate.
(h)	If there is still a requirement to have the work performed the Employer may on a rotating basis force the junior qualified classified employee in the department who is eligible. The employee will be paid four (4) hours at the applicable rate.
14.11.4.1	When assigning overtime as per Article 14.11.4, the employer will:
(a)	Explain the overtime assignment and estimated length of time.
(b)	If the employee refuses the initial assignment the employer will ask the employee if they are interested in being called again if the current assignment becomes a four (4) hour call-in or if a new overtime assignment becomes available before their next shift.
(c)	If the employee does not answer and the employer has an opportunity to leave a message they will do so and such employees will be deemed to have refused the overtime. It is understood that the employer will call the employee again for a new overtime assignment should one become available.
(d)	The employer will keep a log of calls made to employees for assignment of overtime.
14.11.5. In recognizing that the various shifts for inside workers can make acceptance of
overtime difficult for senior employees the employer will, if the assignment of
work is greater than six (6) hours, allow employees by seniority to split the
- 27 -
assignment into a maximum of two (2) blocks of work. (For example: If the most senior employee accepts three (3) hours of an eight (8) hour overtime assignment the supervisor will then offer the remaining five (5) hours of overtime by seniority).
14.11.5.1	When splitting the overtime assignment, it is understood that no block of work may be less than three (3) hours. Blocks of three (3) hours or more may not be taken in the middle of the assignment.
14.11.5.2	Any employee may accept an overtime assignment to a maximum of 16 hours.
14.11.5.3	If the block of work is six (6) hours or less the employee must be available for the full assignment of work.
14.11.6	If an employee arrives at work for an overtime assignment which has been subsequently cancelled, the employee will be paid for the number of hours in the initial assignment up to a maximum of four (4) hours at the applicable rate. If an employee arrives for an assignment that is expected to be four (4) hours or greater and the actual number of hours is less than four (4) hours the employee will receive a minimum of four (4) hours overtime.
14.11.7	An employee who has accepted an overtime assignment is expected to finish the particular assignment. An employee can however cancel their commitment for emergency reasons (i.e. sickness, family commitments etc.).
14.11.8	Employees will be called when the employer determines the overtime is necessary to avoid delays. Should a delay occur due to notice of less than one hour to the senior employee then the overtime will be offered to the employee performing the job until the senior person arrives.
14.12	When a “crew” works an EXTENSION OF SHIFT and there are students or casuals who were members of that crew during the regular workday and there is a requirement for the work that the students or casuals performed to be continued into the EXTENSION OF SHIFT, such work will be offered, first to any available, senior, qualified employee in the department who is at work, then to any senior, available, qualified employee whose name is on the sign-up sheet who is in the plant. Only after these steps may the work be assigned to the students or casuals who were members of that crew during the regular workday.
14.13	Hourly paid workers and haulers will be paid a shift differential for all regularly scheduled hours worked between 6pm and 12am of $0.75 per hour and for all regularly scheduled hours worked between 12am and 6am of $1.00 per hour.
14.14	It is clearly understood that nothing in the foregoing shall prevent the Employer from assigning a qualified workforce sufficient to meet the needs of the business.
14.15	The regular workweek and assignment of overtime for all drivers (Bulk Tank Graders, Special Delivery Driver, Chain Store Driver, Spare Driver, Wholesale Driver, Long Haul Drivers and Ice Cream Drivers) will be posted in the Appendix. Drivers will be exempt from Article 14.9 to 14.12
14.16	This Article 14 is not applicable to Bulk Tank Graders and shall not affect the present schedule of work and days off.
14.17	Banking Overtime Pay
(It is agreed that the following provisions are a trial only. Either the Employer or the Union may, with 30 days written notice, advise the other of its intention to exercise its right to void this article. If this article is voided, all banked pay will
- 28 -
14.17.1
14.17.2
14.17.3
14.17.4
14.17.5
14.17.6
14.17.7
14.17.8
14.17.9 14.18 14.18.1
be paid out in the next pay period and employees will no longer be able to bank overtime pay or take time off in lieu.)
Subject to making his/her intentions known on his/her timecard, an employee may elect to defer overtime pay and/or pay for work on a day off and take time off with pay at a later time. Such deferred pay shall accumulate as a cash value and be known as lieu time. The Maximum cash value an employee is allowed to accumulate is $2000.00
Lieu time will be credited at the rate the overtime was earned (e.g. a two hour extended shift would equal three times the basic hourly rate in effect at the time).
At any time, an employee can request that Lieu Time be taken as time off with pay. It can be taken in part (one hour minimum) or in whole.
Employees will make any request for Lieu Time to their supervisor. Such requests will be subject to operational needs and staff availability and the granting of Lieu Time shall be at the Employer’s discretion. An employee may also request to take Lieu Time in conjunction with their vacation. However, the scheduling of any Lieu Time will not interfere with the vacation choice of another employee.
The Employer will respond to requests for Lieu Time in a timely manner.
The Employer can request that an employee take Lieu Time in part or whole. However, the employee must explicitly agree to the request before he/she is scheduled off.
Scheduled Lieu Time will not be cancelled unless the employee is given notice during or prior to his last shift of work before the scheduled Lieu Time. His last shift of work includes any overtime worked on that day.
An employee can at any time, receive part or all of the cash value of his/her Lieu Time as pay, provided he/she notifies the Employer at least one (1) month in advance of the pay period in which he/she wishes to receive it.
Lieu Time cannot carry over to the next calendar year. All accumulated Lieu Time, not scheduled, will be paid out on the final pay for the year. Employees cannot bank overtime pay from December 15 to December 31 in any year.
Inside employees may be required to be temporarily reassigned i.e. transferred from their own job to respond to temporary increases or decreases in work within a department or to adjust to changing work priorities.
These transfers will be for one of two reasons:
a)	A “push” will occur when an employee is temporarily transferred from his regular job because there is no work currently available in his//her regular position. The employee may be temporarily moved to another position within his/her own department or outside his/her department. “Push” transfers will be on a daily basis for a period not to exceed one week; employees who are prepared to accept a “push” will be provided 40 hours of work for this week.
b) .	A “pull” will occur when an employee is required to temporarily
transfer from his regular position to another position within or outside his/her own department because of a change of work priorities or the need for his particular skills elsewhere.
- 29 -
A “push” and “pull” cannot occur at the same time. The employee is either transferred because he/she has no work or because there is a need elsewhere.
14.18.2	Before an employee is transferred the supervisor will provide a clear explanation of the reason for the transfer, state whether it is a push or a pull and give the expected duration of the assignment
14.18.3	A qualified employee who has “free time” (push) will be transferred before an employee is “pulled” to a work assignment.
14.18.4	Employees will not be transferred between production and shipping.
14.18.5	If more than one employee is available and qualified to perform the work, the available push or pull work will be offered in order of seniority and in a pull situation, if a force is necessary, in reverse order of seniority.
14.18.6	In the case of a push, employees have the option to punch out and not be paid or use paid time in accordance with Article 13 rather than accepting another work assignment in another department. If an employee chooses to go home they will not be eligible for overtime until their regular shift has expired. If they return to work they will be paid straight time until the scheduled end of their regular shift.
14.18.7	In the case of a “pull” the employee will be entitled to a premium of one-quarter (1/4) his basic rate for all hours worked outside his regular department.
14.18.8	The Employer will not use the provisions of this article if it allows it to avoid posting what would otherwise be a full time vacancy.
14.18.9	Employees who are transferred outside their department from their own job will, for overtime purposes, be considered as being in their regular department and will retain their overtime extension of shift rights on their regular job. They will not have additional overtime rights in the job to which they have been pulled. Overtime that would normally be an extension of shift will be assigned starting at Article 14.10.2 Step 2 with the assumption that there is no employee performing the work at the end of the regular workday.
14.19 Any classified employee who is temporarily transferred from his/her regular job to another job with a higher rate shall be paid the higher rate for the day worked on the higher rated job, provided the time worked is four hours or more per shift on the higher rated job. However, an employee who is temporarily transferred from his/her regular job to another job with a lower rate shall continue to receive his/her regular rate for all the time worked on such other job.
ARTICLE 15 - RULES GOVERNING DRIVER SALESPERSONS
15.1	It is mutually agreed that a driver salesperson's duties shall consist of delivery of dairy products, and collecting payment for same. The Employer further agrees to provide adequate cashing-in facilities in order to permit driver salespersons to spend the least possible time in their prescribed settling of accounts.
15.2	No driver salesperson shall be expected to clean the outside of his/her truck, but shall be responsible for keeping the cab of the vehicle clean and tidy.
15.3	Upon proper evidence furnished by the employee, to the satisfaction of the Employer, allowance shall be made daily for all goods broken, spilled or soured.
- 30 -
15.4	Order sheets, return and cashing sheets shall be in enough copies to supply both the Employer and the employee.
15.5	Credit customers shall not be permitted unless authorized by the Employer. Where credit has been so authorized, responsibility therefore shall rest solely with the Employer.
15.6	Each driver salesperson shall complete his/her daily return each day before leaving the premises of the Employer.
15.7	All driver salespersons shall be furnished each week with a full report of all units sold and the total earnings of the week with all deductions, shortages, and overages indicated thereon. The Employer shall have an employee available during reasonable working hours who is able to assist any driver salesperson in finding a shortage.
15.8	No driver salesperson shall start to deliver product before 4:15 a.m. unless otherwise determined by the by-laws of the Municipality concerned.
15.9	When wholesale customers are on regular routes of the salesperson (institutions, etc.) the Employer will give consideration to any request by the salesperson to include such accounts in his/her daily deliveries.
15.10	Driver salespersons shall be permitted to transfer milk from one route to another and be credited and/or charged with the sale, providing both salespersons report the transaction on the day it occurs.
15.11	The Employer will endeavour at all times to keep any delay time during loading operations to a functional minimum for driver salespersons and also to monitor loading operations on a continual basis.
ARTICLE 16 - ROUTE CUTTING
16.1	Establishing Routes:
Driving routes will be established on a weekly schedule based on reasonable expectations (reasonable = average driver). At the time a route is established the schedule will include the times spent on the following things:
(a)	driving and
(b)	serve time (e.g. stops, off loading, stocking, pricing, merchandising, returns, breaks, customer relations) and
(c)	non-delivery activities (e.g. Pre/post trip, cleaning inside of vehicle, paperwork and invoicing, end of day settlement, ordering, checking voice mail, replenishing supplies, verifying load on truck) and
(d)	may include a contingency for unexpected events.
16.1.2	Driving routes are assembled so as not to exceed 45 hours, except where the driver requests and the Employer agrees, routes may exceed the regular hours of work on a regular basis because the drivers pace of work is causing the job to be more than the regular hours of work established for that route. Hours greater than 40 will be compensated with commission provided it can cover 1.5 times the metro wholesale guarantee hourly rate for hours in excess of 40. The following formulas will be used to determine the number of hours being compensated for on a particular route:
Wholesale Drivers:
- 31 -
Driver base rate + commission = total salary
Total salary - guarantee = pay available to cover hours over 40
Guarantee / 40 = hourly rate X 1.5 = overtime rate
Pay available to cover hours over 40 / overtime rate = hours which can
be worked over 40 hours with no additional pay.
Chainstore, Metro Spare, Rural Wholesale, Metro Ice Cream, Rural Ice Cream and Rural Seasonal Ice Cream Drivers:
Driver base rate / 40 = hourly rate X 1.5 = overtime rate Commission / overtime rate = hours which can be worked over 40 hours with no additional pay.
16.1.3	In the case of ice cream routes, helpers, overtime, phone power or layoffs may be used to accommodate seasonal bumps in business.
16.2	Unexpected Events - to be included in contingency for unexpected events include:
(a)	Breakdowns of less than 1 hour
(b)	Road construction
(c)	Product delays due to breakdown of production equipment of less than 30 minutes
(d)	Hand held malfunction
(e)	Delays at chain stores
(f)	DOT stop - not including a full inspection
(g)	Order errors
(h)	New stops until they are incorporated into a route
16.2.1	The following steps will be taken when an unexpected event occurs:
(a)	Event occurs
(b)	Driver Reports - normally the same day
(c)	Supervisor decides whether events constitutes an unexpected event (verbally advises driver) - normally within 24 hours
(d)	Driver responds verbally to supervisor - at the time of discussion with supervisor
(e)	Supervisor verbally refers to 2 person committee - same day
(f)	Committee makes decision and puts in writing with reasons.
Copies are provided to employee and union. A consensus decision means matter ends. - normally within 48 hours
(g)	If committee does not agree, issue will go to grievance committee for review.
16.2.2	At the point it is determined that an unexpected event has occurred the supervisor will see if the driver has any time in his established schedule to allow for unexpected events and if there is sufficient time available the driver will not receive additional compensation. In the event that the driver does not have the time available in his established schedule he/she will be paid the established overtime rate for his type of route for any hours over the time his route allows for unexpected events.
16.3	If drivers are held up due to the following they will be paid 1.5 times the
metro wholesale guarantee hourly rate for additional time worked regardless of whether there is time in their contingency for unexpected events:
- 32 -
(a)	Breakdowns of more than 1 hour
(b)	Trucks not loaded as scheduled
(c)	Product delays due to breakdown of production equipment of more than 30 minutes - some guidelines will be needed for this.
(d)	DOT stop for a full inspection
16.4	Route Changes
The following steps will be taken when there is a need to modify a route or when a review is triggered.
(a)	Route review is triggered by a driver in the classification, supervisor, or committee member or a modification to a route.
(b)	Advise driver prior to the assignment with a fact sheet. The fact sheet will contain: current hours, volume and time range
(c)	Fact sheet goes to the Driver Committee and route is reviewed. The committee advises driver of estimated time for review process.
(d)	Committee makes decision and puts in writing with reasons. A copy of the decision is provided to the employee and the union. A consensus at this time means the matter ends. The review is documented, filed and signed by all parties.
(e)	If the committee does not agree the issue will go to the grievance committee for review.
16.5	It is agreed that when a route is split into two or more routes, the driver whose route is split shall have the first choice as to which route he/she shall work.
16.6	The route driver whose route is split shall receive a guaranteed minimum pay to be governed by the four (4) weeks sales average previous to the aforementioned split, for twenty-two weeks following the splitting of the route, with the understanding that the months of July and August shall not constitute the aforementioned four (4) week period, except where wages are higher during these months. Should an employee be absent from his/her route during the twenty-two (22) week period, the balance of the guarantee will be paid; week by week, during the weeks following his/her return to that route.
16.7	In the event that through increased sales commission, the driver whose route is split is able to make a pay higher than the minimum guaranteed in Article 16.2 above, it is understood he/she shall be granted such increase.
16.8	Should the Employer cut a route for the second time within a period of twelve (12) months, the salesperson concerned shall receive the guaranteed minimum outlined in Article 16.2 above.
16.9	For the purpose of Article 16.51 and 16.6, a route will be considered to have been split when:
(a)	It has been divided into two or more routes;
(b)	A portion has been removed and placed on another existing route.
16.9.1	The guarantee shall not apply in the event that:
(a)	The route is cut at the request of the employee;
(b)	The customer is removed from a route at the request of the customer
(c)	The customer is removed from a route, when in the opinion of the
- 33 -
Employer; such customer must be removed in order to prevent loss of sales to such customer.
16.10	When a route is discontinued entirely or split and portions placed on existing routes, the salesperson whose route is discontinued shall be guaranteed their present earnings on any available route for twenty-two (22) weeks.
ARTICLE 17- WAGES
17.1	It is agreed by both parties hereto that the wages, salaries, and other conditions outlined in the appendices shall be paid during the term of this Agreement, in addition to any other applicable clause.
17.2	Barring machinery breakdown or Acts o f God, the Employer agrees to have the pay available by 2:00 p.m. at the latest, on Thursday. If a holiday falls on Thursday, the Employer will endeavour to pay on Wednesday. The Employer agrees to pay employees on a weekly basis.
ARTICLE 18 - UNIFORMS
18.1	The Employer agrees to supply yearly, free of charge, to plant employees as follows: four pairs of pants and four shirts or smocks for those employees wearing white clothing, three pairs of pants and three shirts for those employees wearing dark clothes, except for stationary engineers who will be supplied with four of each. The Employer may substitute coveralls, overalls or lab coats for white or dark clothes as long as the total issue (4 white and 3 dark) remains the same. It is understood that the substitution of one coverall, overall or lab coat will be for one pair of pants plus one shirt or one pair of pants plus one smock. Employees working in the cold room may substitute insulated pants in place of pants or overalls in place of pants and shirts. If plant employees require additional clothing before the next year’s supply is issued, they may bring in their old clothing and obtain replacements.
18.1.1	If requested, a winter jacket will be supplied to plant employees who are required to go into the cold room on a regular basis. The first jacket will be cost shared 50/50 with the employee and will be replaced as needed.
18.2	Bulk Tank Graders, Long Haul Drivers and Driver Salespeople shall receive, each year, two pairs of trousers, three shirts and one hat. One windbreaker will be supplied in alternate years. A winter jacket will be supplied once every three years, the first jacket to be cost shared 50/50 with the employee. One pair of overalls or coveralls per year shall be supplied to Bulk Tank Graders and Long Haul Drivers if required.
18.3	A winter jacket will be supplied to workers in the Bedford milk cold room once every two years; the first jacket will be cost shared 50/50 with the employee.
18.4	Appropriate winter suits will be provided to employees in the ice cream shipping area.
18.5	The Middleton employee will be supplied with one pair of thermal coveralls for working on the exterior tank in cold weather. Such coveralls shall be used only at work.
18.6	Where specialized clothing is required on an occasional basis, a reasonable supply will be made available for groups of employees.
- 34 -
18.7	The employees shall maintain themselves and their clothing in a neat, tidy and clean condition at all times. Whites will be laundered by the Employer, and the Employer will not hold an employee responsible for the condition of his/her whites resulting from this laundering.
18.8	The Employer will use its best efforts to ensure that employees receive their clothing allotment in October of each year.
18.9	The Employer will pay each year $90.00 plus the actual amount of HST reflected on the receipt toward the cost of approved safety footwear appropriate for the type of work being performed. In the case of employees in the ice cream shipping area, boots will be provided in lieu of the allowance. Footwear must remain on Employer’s property, or be used in the performance of Employer’s business.
18.10	The Employer will provide a list of recommended boots. If an employee working in the cold room buys from the list, and the boots are destroyed within a year because of the environment in the cold room, the Employer will pay the boot allowance again if the employee replaces the boots.
ARTICLE 19 - ABSENCES
19.1	Union delegates and officers may be absent from work for Union business, but at their own expense and provided the Employer has adequate relief available. The maximum time off shall be twenty (20) working days per calendar year.
19.2	Temporary Leave of Absence for Union Business:
19.3	Leave of Absence, without pay, for the purpose of attending Union schools, conventions, or conferences may be granted by the Employer upon written request by the Union subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Leave shall only be granted subject to the operational requirements of the business and the Employer's ability to locate suitable replacements.
(b)	A maximum of three (3) employees shall be granted leave at any one time.
(c)	A maximum number of days off that will be granted in a calendar year under this Article will be 100.
(d)	If the employee is elected or appointed to a full time position with the CEP Union, Leave of Absence not to exceed six (6) months shall be granted.
(e)	Employees granted such leave shall continue to accumulate seniority except that entitlement for vacation pay, sick days and Christmas Bonus shall be reduced by one fifty second (1/52) for each week of absence.
(f)	Coverage under the Security Plan as described in Article 22 may be continued provided the employee or the Union pay the full cost of the coverage. Contribution to the retirement plan may also be continued for a period of up to six months provided the employee continues to pay their portion.
19.4	The Employer agrees to grant all employees covered by this Agreement five (5) consecutive days off, commencing from the day after the death, without loss of pay upon the death of their father, mother, brother, sister, wife, husband, child, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandparents, grandchild or legal guardian. Should an employee require extra time off for purposes connected with the bereavement, it is agreed that such time off, up to a maximum of seven days, will be granted
- 35 -
without pay, provided that such leave has been requested by the employee and granted by the Employer. Time off without loss of pay, to a maximum of one (1) day, will be granted to attend the funeral of a sister-in-law, brother-in-law and spouse's grandparents.
19.4.1	The above shall apply to common- law relationships provided that the employee represents him/herself as married, the parties are co-habitant, and a statutory declaration is made to the Employer.
19.5	An employee will not lose seniority as a result of absence from work provided that such leave of absence has been requested in writing and permission has been granted by the Employer in writing. Permission for such leave of absence shall not be unreasonably withheld.
19.6	An employee who loses time from his/her regularly scheduled work as a result of jury service shall be paid his/her straight time earnings for the hours he/she would have otherwise worked if he/she turns over to the Employer all payments received from the court in respect of the jury service. Time off for jury selection will be handled in accordance with the procedure attached.
ARTICLE 20 - BULLETIN BOARDS
20.1	The Employer agrees to permit posting of any notices of Union meetings or other activities on a bulletin board conspicuously placed and provided for that purpose.
20.1	Discreet areas will be made on existing bulletin boards for postings only.
ARTICLE 21 - MEDICAL EXAMINATION
21.1.	Any medical examination required by the Employer shall be promptly complied with by all employees, provided, however, that the Employer be required to pay all expenses for such examination.
21.2	The Employer reserves the right to select their own medical examiner or physician, and the Union may, if in its opinion an injustice has been done, cause an employee to be re-examined at the Union's expense, by its chosen examiner physician.
ARTICLE 22 - SECURITY PLAN
22.1	The Employer and the employees agree to participate in maintaining a Security Plan involving Group Life Insurance, Dependent Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Medical Benefits, Vision Care, Long Term Disability Benefits, and Dental Care. The Employer agrees to discuss the benefits and costs of this Plan with the Union from time to time as may be required.
22.2	Farmers Co-operative Dairy has established a Pension Plan. Membership in the Plan will be mandatory after two (2) years of service. Employees may apply earlier, on a voluntary basis, to join the Plan.
22.2.1	The Employer agrees to have two (2) Union members sit on the Pension Committee. It must be clearly understood that these persons must agree to maintain as confidential, all personal information to which they may have access.
- 36 -
ARTICLE 23- GENERAL
23.1	Any classified employee present ly receiving more than the minimum wages now existing under the terms of this Agreement will not suffer a decrease through the signing of this Agreement, and any classified employee enjoying working conditions more favourable than those stipulated herein shall continue to enjoy same.
23.2	The Union maintains the privilege to negotiate with the Employer wage rates covering new types of work not established by this Agreement. In such cases, the rates agreed upon shall be effective as of the date the said work goes into effect. Should the parties be unable to agree as to the rate to be applied to that job classification, the Union shall have recourse to the Grievance Procedure at the second step.
23.3	Employees shall not be permitted to engage in any other major occupation or business during the course of their employment if it interferes with their employment with Farmers Dairy.
23.4	The Employer agrees to classify all employees in the bargaining unit and supply a copy of same to the Union.
23.5	All employees in the bargaining unit shall receive an extra 1/12 of a weeks pay (guaranteed earnings plus full commissions where it applies), for each full continuous month of service terminating December 31st of each year, same to be given to the employee on December 18th or the nearest banking day, provided that the employee has not resigned or been discharged prior to December 31st.
23.6	A supper break is to be optional for any employee working one hour or more overtime, such option to be exercised by a production unit as a whole after a vote by a show of hands of the employees in the production unit and the majority of those voting shall carry the decision.
23.7	The Employer agrees to provide adequate lunchroom facilities for all employees who are employed during a meal period. In particular, the Employer agrees to provide sufficient tables and chairs and an adequate eating area for employees working through the evening meal and between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m.
23.8	If an employee makes a written request to the Employer, all records and correspondence in that employee's file shall be made available for that employee to see.
23.9.1	The Employer agrees that letters of discipline will be null and void after two (2) years provided:
a)	there is no repeat of the matter disciplined for
b)	no violence
c)	no illegal acts that pertain to Employer’s personnel and/or property
23.9.2	Letters of discipline that involve alcohol or drugs will be null and void after three years provided there is no repeat of the matter disciplined for.
23.10	Any employee who is required to appear as a witness by the Employer, or its agents acting on the Employer's behalf, shall not suffer a loss of regular wages as a result.
- 37 -
23.11	If an employee is injured at work and requires medical attention, and the attending physician advises that he/she may not return to work that day, the Employer will pay his/her wages for the remainder of the regular work day.
ARTICLE 24 - SAFETY
24.1	It is the desire of the Employer and the Union to maintain high standards of safety in order to continue to eliminate, insofar as possible, industrial accidents and illness. There is hereby established a safety committee consisting of not less than four (4) members, two of whom shall be management employees and two of whom shall be Union employees.
24.1.2	The Committee will determine their own terms of reference, frequency of meetings and inspection tours, and will post the terms of reference as agreed to between Union and Management.
All reports and recommendations and a written statement of the action taken thereon shall be kept by the safety committee as a permanent record and shall at all times be available to any member of the committee. A written report of Safety Committee Meetings is to be posted.
Where an employee alleges that a machine or equipment is unsafe to operate, the employee may ask for an immediate determination of this by his/her Foreperson and be entitled to have a decision within two (2) hours. If the matter is not settled to the employee's satisfaction, the employee shall refer it to the Safety Committee for determination.
ARTICLE 25 - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
25.1	Each full time employee who ceases to be a full time employee of the Employer by reason of the permanent closing of a department, by the introduction of labour saving equipment, or a permanent layoff for a reduction in the work force, shall be entitled to a severance allowance as follows:
Less than 2 years service	-	3	weeks
2 - 5 years	-	5	weeks
5 - 10 years	-	7	weeks
10 - 15	years	-	12	weeks
15 - 20	years	-	15	weeks
20 - 25	years	-	17	weeks
25 years and over of service	-	21	weeks
25.2	Employees who are laid off may elect to receive a severance allowance under this Article 25 either at the time of the layoff or after their recall rights under Article 9.11.1 have expired.
25.3	An employee who requests payment of the severance allowance or receives it after his/her recall rights have expired shall have his/her employment with the Employer terminated and shall have no further rights under this Agreement.
ARTICLE 26 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
26.1	Technological change means the introduction of equipment different in nature from that previously utilized that results in a reduction in manpower requirements. Should such technological change occur, a Joint Committee will be reconstructed to deal with:
24.2
24.3
- 38 -
26.1.1
26.2
ARTICLE 27
27.1
27.2
27.3
27.4
27.5
27.6
27.7
27.8
(a)	retraining;
(b)	transfers on a voluntary basis to vacant positions with the Employer;
(c)	any other such remedies as may be appropriate.
The Committee will be advisory in nature and not executive.
The Employer will endeavour to make every effort to avoid layoffs.
- STUDENTS
For the purpose of this article, Seasonal Work will be any bargaining unit work that is performed by students to meet the summer increase in ice cream sales.
Seasonal work will be restricted to Ice Cream production, ice cream shipping, ice cream drivers and their helpers, batcher’s helper and dry goods warehouse.
Seasonal Workers will only be employed from April 15 to September 15 of each year.
The only other situation where the Employer may employ students to do bargaining unit work is to replace employees who take vacation during the summer (April 15 to September 15) and Christmas /New Year period (last two weeks of December and the first week of January). Vacation Relief Students can be used freely across department lines but will only be used to replace employees who are on vacation. When they are not covering employees’ vacations they may perform any other work where it is permissible to use casuals, replace employees on training and perform work not normally performed by employees (i.e. grounds work, building maintenance, drivers helpers).
Students will be allowed to train for work assignments provided that during their training period they will be working directly with a regular employee.
Students hired for vacation relief will not be employed to perform Seasonal Work, however, students hired to do Seasonal Work may do vacation relief within the same department of the seasonal work they are performing.
Prior to December 1st of each year, the Employer will advise the Union of the expected number of students that will be used to grant employees their vacation requests. By April 15 of each year, the Employer will post the expected master schedule for vacation relief students, showing the week by week vacation relief assignments for all the vacation relief students it intends to hire. The Employer may change the “master schedule” throughout the period to adapt to changes in employees’ vacation requests, and unplanned absences.
The Seasonal Student requirements will be discussed with the union through the grievance committee prior to their employment.
If a student, while covering for vacations, sick leave, leave of absence or seasonal work is absent from work, he/she may be replaced in the same manner as a regular employee is replaced.
Regular classified employees will have preference over student shift assignments subject to the following conditions:
a. After the vacation schedules are posted, but prior to April 1st,
employees must express their interest to their supervisor for the shift - 39 -
preference, in writing.
b.	No additional training is required for the student or the employee.
c.	The employee is qualified to do the job.
d.	Approval of the request will be considered as notice of shift change.
e.	There will be no penalty for cancellation by the Employer with a reasonable explanation.
f	Preference will be given to qualified employees on a seniority basis.
g.	A one-bump maximum i.e. the employee has to directly replace the student.
h.	Employees’ requests will be approved or denied by April 15 of each year.
i.	Employees who take a student work assignment will forfeit any vacation scheduled during the period of the work assignment unless it does not interfere with the vacation schedule of the department
ARTICLE 28 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
28.1	This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from October 28, 2007 to October 31, 2009 and shall automatically renew itself on each anniversary date unless, within the period of two months prior to October 31, 2009, or any subsequent October 31 thereafter one of the parties hereto notifies the other of its intentions to revise, amend or conclude a new Collective Agreement.
28.2	The Employer and Union agree that all prior Letters of Understanding are void upon signing of this Collective Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE HERETO SIGNED: FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE EMPLOYER
- 40 -
WAGES APPENDIX "A" - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE
METRO WHOLESALE ROUTES
Commission $ 0.02 1/2 per equivalent litre on all sales
Bonus $0.01 per equivalent litre on all sales above 7500 litres when 8500 litre sales reached
Routes averaging in excess of 8500 equivalent litres over a fiscal month to receive bonus on all litres over 7500 per week. All bonuses to be paid monthly.
Driving Allowance	EFFECTIVE	
	OCT 28, 2007	OCT 26, 2008
Up to 9,999 litres	597.00	612.54
10,000 -12,999 litres	587.00	602.54
13,000 - Up litres	577.00	592.54
Driving allowance is calculated by averaging weekly sales of prior fiscal month.
Guaranteed Earnings OCT 28, 2007 OCT 26, 2008
776.99	792.53
Holiday Pay	If not required If required to work
	to work	OCT 28, 2007	OCT 26, 2008
Up to 9,999 litres	$70.00	438.50	446.27
10,000 - 11,499 litres	$75.00	443.50	451.27
11,500 - 12,499 litres	$80.00	448.50	456.27
12,500 and over	$95.00	478.50	486.27
The regular work week for driver salespeople shall consist of either five (5) days or four (4) days per week. Driver salespeople who work five days per week may be required to work Saturdays as regular working days and have another day as their day off in addition to Sunday.
Driver salespeople who work four days per week, shall work three days on a scheduled route, the fourth day to be worked as assigned. The delivery schedules will fall within Monday to Saturday inclusively.
- 41 -
CHAIN ROUTES
Driving Allowance	OCT 28, 2007	OCT 26, 2008
761.20	776.42
Commission $ .02 per equivalent case (equiv. litres divided by 16)
Days of work - 5 per week
The regular workweek for Chain Store Driver Salespeople shall consist of five days per week. The delivery schedules will fall within Monday to Saturday inclusively.
DEFINITION OF AN EQUIVALENT LITRE - 1 litre of product sold by fluid measure - 1 kilogram of product sold by weight
METRO SPARE DRIVERS
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007	OCT 26, 2008
Rate of Pay	794.28	810.17
The regular workweek for spare drivers will normally consist of five days. When a Spare Driver is covering a four day route for a full week, his regular work for that week shall consist of four days.
If a spare driver is removed from his/her scheduled duties after starting such for that day and is assigned a regular route, he/she will be paid time and one half for all hours worked in excess of the hours required to complete the regular route that he/she is assigned on that day.
Additional Lump Sum (Daily)		4 Day work week
1.	Chain Route	$10.00
2.	Wholesale Route	
	Up to 10,999 L	$26.00
	11,000 - 11,999	$33.00
	12,000 - 12,999	$40.00
	13,000 and over	$45.00
3.	Ice Cream Route	$10.00
- 42 -
SPECIAL DELIVERY DRIVERS (MILK AND ICE CREAM)
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007 OCT 26, 2008
Rate of Pay	769.12	784.50
The work week for special delivery drivers shall be forty (40) hours performed in five (5) days of eight (8) hours each and they shall receive two consecutive days off, one of which will be Sunday.
DRIVERS HELPERS
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007 OCT 26, 2008
Rate of Pay	611.44	623.68
RURAL WHOLESALE ROUTES
Commission $ .01 per unit wholesale
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007
Driving Allowance	745.20
.02 per unit retail OCT 26, 2008
760.10
DEFINITION OF A UNIT
1 litre or its equivalent of all fluid products except cream and blend = .88 of a unit
-	250 mL	Blend = .44 of a unit
-	250 mL	Whipping = .88 of a unit
-	500 mL	Blend = .88 of a unit
-	500 mL	18% = 1.10
-	500 mL Whipping = 1.76
-	1 pound of spread or margarine
-	500 gm yogourt = 1.654 units
-	1 - 4 litre bag of spring water = 1.75 units
-	Juice equivalents as provided to drivers
RURAL SPARE DRIVERS
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007 OCT 26, 2008
765.72	781.04
- 43 -
WAGES APPENDIX "B" - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE
METRO ICE CREAM
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007 OCT 26, 2008
Driving Allowance	757.13	772.27
Commission $ .01 per equivalent litre
METRO ICE CREAM CHAIN ROUTE
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007 OCT 26, 2008
Driving Allowance	591.58	603.41
Commission $ .01 per equivalent litre
RURAL ICE CREAM
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007	OCT. 26, 2008
Driving Allowance	765.08	780.38
Plus in each year 1% (one per cent) of all sales to regular customers made by driver salespeople including cash and credit sales.
RURAL SEASONAL ICE CREAM
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007	OCT. 26, 2008
Driving Allowance	737.92	752.68
Plus in each year 1% (one per cent) of all sales to regular customers made by driver salespeople including cash and credit sales.
ICE CREAM SPARE DRIVERS
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007	OCT. 26, 2008
Rate of Pay	765.72	781.04
- 44 -
APPENDIX “B1”- ASSIGNMENT OF OVERTIME FOR WHOLESALE, ICE-CREAM, LONG HAUL, CHAIN STORE, SPECIAL DELIVERY AND MODIFIED DRIVERS.
1.	When an employee works and/or is credited with more hours than his Regular Workday, it will be one of the two types of overtime;
a)	Route Event is an unexpected event that occurs during a driver’s regular scheduled route as defined in Article 16. The assignment of overtime may be at the beginning of the driver’s regular route or at the end of his normal work day.
b)	Non Route Event is work that occurs outside the driver’s regular route and is not related to his specific route. Non Route Events will be assigned as an early start, extension of shift or call back.
(i)	An Early Start occurs when an employee starts work earlier than his regular workday. An EARLY START must extend into the start of his regular workday. It will be less than 4 hours in duration.
(ii)	An Extension of Shift occurs when an employee works past the end of his regular work day without any period of unpaid time. It will be less than 4 hours in duration.
(iii)	A Call Back occurs when
1.	an employee has finished his regular workday and, after any period of unpaid time, returns to work or
2.	an employee is called in four (4) hours or more before the start of his regular shift, or
3.	the reason for the assignment is to cover an employee’s absence or vacanc of four (4) or more hours.
2.	The Employer will post a sign-up sheet in each department for employees to indicate their willingness to work additional hours. A sheet will be dated and posted for every day of the week and will be available at least seven days in advance. Employees will be able to add their name to the sheet from the time it is posted up to 2pm of the last weekday (not Saturday, Sunday or Statutory Holiday) prior to the date on the sheet. The form of the signup sheet will be as agreed between the parties. Employees who consistently put their name on the sign-up sheet and without valid excuse refuse to work the additional hours when called will not be allowed to put their name on a sign-up sheet for a period of two weeks.
3.	Overtime will be assigned as follows:
3. 1.	ROUTE EVENT:
Step 1: Work that is created as a result of a route event will be assigned
to the driver performing the work. The driver is expected to complete the full assignment unless the driver will exceed the maximum hours of work. If it is determined the driver will exceed the maximum hours of work the work may be carried over to the next day or reassigned to another driver who has hours available.
3.2	NON ROUTE EVENT:
EARLY START:
- 45 -
If the work that is to be assigned is less than 4 hours in duration and will continue without a break into the start of an employee’s regular workday it will be first offered to the employee who is expected to perform the work at the start of his regular workday. If there is more than one employee who would be performing the work at the start of their regular workday the EARLY START will be offered to those employees in order of seniority.
If the employee(s) who is expected to perform the work at the start of his or her regular workday is not willing to work the overtime or there is no employee who would have been performing the work at the start of their regular workday, or the work assignment is 4 hours or more, the work will be assigned as a CALLBACK.
3.	3 EXTENSION OF SHIFT
Step 1 If the work that is to be assigned is expected to be less than 4 hours in duration, it will first be offered to available qualified drivers on the premises in order of seniority.
Step 2 If the above steps do not result in the work being assigned, the employer may, on a rotating basis starting with the least senior, force a qualified unclassified employee who is working in the Department to work if he/she is eligible. If that is not possible the Employer may, on a rotating basis starting with the least senior, force a qualified classified employee who is working in the department to work if he/she is eligible.
3.3.1.	Employees can only be forced to work either:
a)	a maximum of one hour on an extension of shift, no more than twice in any scheduled workweek, or
b)	once a week, a maximum of two hours on an extension of shift.
At the time an employee is forced, he/she will be advised whether it is a one or two hour force.
3.3.2.	If there is still a requirement for work to be assigned after the above steps (3.2 and 3.3) the
work will be assigned as a CALLBACK.
3.4.	CALLBACK
Step 1	The work that is to be assigned will be first offered in order of seniority to qualified,
classified, department employees who have placed their names on the sign-up sheet.
Step 2 If there is still a requirement for employees to work, the work will be offered in order of seniority to qualified, classified, employees from outside the department who have placed their names on the sign-up sheet.
Step 3 If there is still a requirement for employees to work, the work will be offered in order of seniority to qualified, unclassified, employees who have placed their names on the sign-up sheet.
Step 4 If there is still a requirement for employees to work the Employer will canvass, in order of seniority, qualified, classified, department employees who did not place their names on the sign-up sheet.
Step 5 If there is still a requirement to have the work performed the Employer will attempt to hire a qualified casual.
Step 1
Step 2
- 46 -
Step 6 If there is still a requirement to have the work performed the Employer may, on a rotating basis, force a qualified unclassified who is eligible.
Step 7 If there is still a requirement to have the work performed the Employer may on a rotating basis force the junior qualified classified in the department who is eligible.
4.	An employee who is accepting an assignment of overtime must be available to work for the complete assignment.
5.	Hourly paid haulers will be paid a shift differential for all regularly scheduled hours worked between 6pm and 12am of $0.75 per hour and for all regularly scheduled hours worked between 12am and 6am of $1.00 per hour.
6.	When an employee is required to report for duty, such employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of 4 hours pay at regular rate. (Premium pay when applicable.) It is understood that nothing in the provisions of this Agreement shall guarantee a forty hour week. An employee must be able to report within a reasonable period of time.
- 47 -
WAGES APPENDIX "C" - DAIRY DIVISION/ICE CREAM DIVISION
EFFECTIVE
PROCESSOR FLOATER who processes FLOATER OPERATOR
SHIPPER OPERATOR
MACHINE OPERATOR
SANITATION OPERATOR
LABOURER
QUALITY CONTROL
STOCKROOM
PACKAGER
UNCLASSIFIED
OCT 28, 2007 OCT. 26, 2008
Rate of Pay per Hour
21.37	21.80
21.64	22.07
20.46	20.87
19.11	19.49
19.54	19.93
19.11	19.49
18.79	19.17
19.64	20.04
19.11	19.49
18.06	18.42
17.96	18.32
Any position requiring an employee to hold a valid forklift license will be paid a premium of $0.17 per hour on all hours paid.
- 48 -
WAGES APPENDIX "D" - MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATION
INDUSTRIAL MECHANICS (I.M.) CLASSIFICATIONS
EFFECTIVE	Oct. 28, 07 Oct. 26, 08
I.M. Level 1	24.06	24.54
I.M. Level 2	24.57	25.06
I.M. Level 3	25.04	25.54
I.M. Level 4	25.55	26.06
INDUSTRIAL ELECTRICIAN (I.E.) CLASSIFICATIONS
EFFECTIVE	Oct. 28, 07 Oct. 26, 08
I.E. Level 1	23.89	24.37
I.E. Level 2	24.57	25.06
I.E. Level 3	25.04	25.54
I.E. Level 4	25.55	26.06
All employees in Electrician classifications will receive an extra $3.75 per week per course/block completed for the following courses:
a.	Journeyman Instrumentation (max. one employee)
b.	Journeyman Electronic Repair (max two employees)
PLANT WELDER CLASSIFICATIONS
EFFECTIVE	Oct. 28, 07 Oct. 26, 08
Plant Welder Level 1 22.72 23.18Plant Welder Level 2	23.23	23.69
Plant Welder Level 3 25.55	26.06
INDUSTRIAL MECHANIC (I.M.): LEVELS 1-4
Level 1:	Successful completion of fourth year NS Dept of Labour Industrial
Mechanics Apprenticeship Program (Journeyman Industrial Mechanic).
Level 2:	Upon completion of 3000 hours Farmers In-Plant Experience
(F.I.E.) in IM Level 1 classification.
Level 3:	Upon completion of 3000 hours of F.I.E. in IM Level 2
classification.
Level 4:	Upon completion of 3000 hours F.I.E. in IM Level 3 classification.
- 49 -
INDUSTRIAL ELECTRICIAN (I.E.): LEVELS 1-4
Level 1:	Successful completion of fourth year NS Dept of Labour Industrial
Electricians Apprenticeship Program (Journeyman Industrial Electrician).
Level 2:	Upon completion of 3000 hours Farmers In-Plant Experience
(F.I.E.) in IE Level 1.
Level 3:	Upon completion of 3000 hours F.I.E. in IE Level 2 classification.
Level 4:	Upon completion of 3000 hours F.I.E. in IE Level 3 classification.
PLANT WELDER QUALIFICATIONS: LEVELS 1-3
Level 1:	Successful completion of fourth year NS Dept of Labour Welder
Apprenticeship Program (Journeyman Welder) with 8000 hours worked in the Welding Trade. Must be able to pass, at the time of hire, The Employer and Government standard tests for the quality of welds (may include x-ray and sanitary weld testing).
Level 2:	Upon completion of 3000 hours Farmers In-Plant Experience
(F.I.E.) in the Plant Welder Level 1 classification.
Level 3:	Upon completion of 3000 hours F.I.E. in the Plant Welder Level 2
classification.
GENERAL
1.	An employee in any Maintenance classification shall be immediately reclassified upon successful completion of the requirements listed in the classification schedule.
2.	Training courses will be offered to the individuals in the Maintenance Classifications. A list of courses will be developed by the Employer and reviewed with the union on an annual basis. The list will be updated as required to ensure that the courses listed remain current.
(i)	Each Industrial Mechanic may be required to take a minimum of 5 courses from the current Industrial Mechanics course list . Courses will be provided to Industrial Mechanics based on the following three criteria:
(ii)	Plant requirements will be the first priority when deciding who is being sent for training, i.e., shift requirements must be met and the training must be divided amongst mechanics to ensure that the
- 50 -
proper shift coverage is available on equipment.
The second priority will be that training must be relevant to the Industrial mechanic. They must be able to use the training in the normal course of their job.
Seniority will be used to give preference for courses to Industrial Mechanics as long as the first two criteria are met.
(iii)	All employees in Industrial Electrician classifications will be
required to attend both the Allen Bradley P.L.C. training Level 1 and Square D P.L.C. training Level 1 course within 2 years from date of hire. It shall be the responsibility of the employer to schedule these courses.
Each Industrial Electrician may also be required to take a minimum of 3
additional courses from the current Industrial Electricians course list. Courses will be provided to Industrial Electricians based on the following three criteria:
Plant requirements will be the first priority when deciding who is being sent for training, i.e., shift requirements must be met and the training must be divided amongst Industrial Electricians to ensure that the proper shift coverage is available on equipment.
The training must be relevant to the Industrial Electrician. They must be able to use the training in the normal course of their job.
Seniority will be used to give preference for courses to Industrial Electricians as long as the first two criteria are met.
- 51 -
MAINTENANCE BASIC TOOL LIST
Upon hire, each Industrial Mechanic shall supply the tools listed below.
The tools listed must be of a brand covered by a lifetime warranty (for some items it will not be possible to get a warranty).
All mechanics will supply the tools listed below. Each mechanic will be given a yearly tool allowance of $200.00 paid on or before June 1 of each year.
Lost, broken, or stolen tools not covered under warranty will be the responsibility of the mechanic and shall be replaced at the mechanic’s expense.
A new toolbox will only be purchased when the maintenance supervisor has assessed the old toolbox and deems it unusable. The mechanic will use one year’s tool allowance toward the purchase of the toolbox and the employer will cover the rest. The toolbox will become the property of the mechanic. (Maximum cost of the toolbox is $500.00).
Basic tool list:
1 Grease gun 1 Trouble light 1 Measuring tape 1 Hack saw 1 Hammer 1 Side cutters 1 Linesman pliers 1 Needle nose pliers 1 Channel lock pliers 1 Retaining ring pliers - internal 1 Retaining ring pliers - external 1 10” pipe wrench 1 Set of wrenches up to 1”
1 Set of wrenches up to 24mm 1 Hex key wrench set - standard 1 Hex key wrench set - metric
1	Socket set up to 3A” = 38” drive
2	Slotted screwdrivers
3	Robertson screwdrivers #1, #2, #3 2 Phillips screwdrivers
1 Toolbox
- 52 -
WAGES APPENDIX "E" - MIDDLETON
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007	OCT 26, 2008
Classification		Per Hour
Machine Operator	19.22	19.61
Maintenance (1)	19.11	19.49
Maintenance (2)	18.79	19.17
Electrician	19.87	20.27
Stationary Engineer	19.38	19.77
Shipper Operator	19.22	19.61
- 53 -
WAGES APPENDIX "F" - BULK TANK DRIVERS
1.	The regular workweek of a Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operator shall consist of picking up milk from farms on an assigned route or routes for periods averaging five days per week throughout the year. Such routes to be agreed upon by the Employer and the Union representative upon origination and before subsequent adjustments are made.
2.	The present system of alternating days of work shall continue during the term of the Collective Agreement.
3.	The Employer will attempt to schedule runs to average 40 hours per week. Where this is not practical, overtime will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week.
4.	If a Bulk Tank Grader is required to work on a scheduled rest day, he/she will be paid as follows for the actual hours worked:
5 day work schedule - first day at time and one half
second day at double time if first day off worked 4 day work schedule - first day at time and one half
second day at time and one half
third day at double time if first and second day off worked
5.	Any Bulk Pick-up Truck Operator required to perform work other than his regular workweek shall be reimbursed for expenses for meals and lodgings incurred as a result of the requirements of this extra work.
6.	Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operators will forfeit the privilege of taking trucks home at night at the discretion of the Employer.
7.	Any Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operator who shall work Sunday, and that day being one of their regular five (5) days of work, shall be paid an extra one tenth (1/10) of their regular weekly pay for the day in question.
BULK TANK GRADER
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007
Bulk Tank Grader	789.00
(Tractor-Trailer)
Bulk Tank Grader	785.68
OCT 26, 2008
804.78
801.40
- 54 -
WAGES APPENDIX "G" - HAULERS
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007	OCT 26, 2008
	PER HOUR	
HAULERS (Tractor-Trailer)	19.73	20.13
HAULERS (Straight Truck)	19.42	19.81
	PER WEEK	
MODIFIED LONG	887.94	905.70
HAUL
Plus Commission of 20 per equivalent case for Chain Store deliveries
- 55 -
WAGES APPENDIX "H" - MERCHANDISERS
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007 OCT 26, 2008
PER HOUR
Full time Merchandisers	18.79	19.17
1.	The regular work week for a full time merchandiser shall be 40 hours per week.
2.	Full time Merchandisers shall receive time and one half (1 1/2) for work performed in excess of 40 hours in one week.
3.	The Employer will supply to the full-time merchandisers each year four pairs of pants and three shirts. If full-time merchandisers require additional clothing before the next year’s supply is issued, they may bring in their old clothing and obtain replacements. Full time merchandisers will be supplied with one windbreaker jacket once every two years and one winter jacket every three years, the first jacket to be cost shared 50/50 with the employee. Merchandisers classified as a full-time merchandiser on October 28, 2007 will not be required to pay the employee 50% cost share of the first winter jacket.
The Employer will pay each year $90.00 plus the actual amount of HST reflected on the receipt toward the cost of approved safety footwear appropriate for the type of work being performed. Such footwear must be used in the performance of the Employer’s business.
4.	A per kilometre driving allowance shall be paid to merchandisers for the distance required to be driven between stores. The rate will be set as per the Employer’s policy.
5.	A maximum of two employees shall be granted vacation at any one time and no vacation shall be granted during the period of December 1st to January 1st.
6.	Full time Merchandisers shall be exempt from Article 14 and 18.
PART-TIME MERCHANDISERS
EFFECTIVE	OCT 28, 2007 OCT 26, 2008
PER HOUR
Part time Merchandisers	10.33	10.54
1.	Part time Merchandisers shall work 24 or less hours averaged over a 4 week period. This provision shall not apply during the period of December 1st - January 10th and May 15th -September 15th, or when they are replacing an employee who is on vacation, sick or injured, or on leave of absence when their hours may exceed the 24 hour limit.
2.	The seniority for each part time merchandiser shall be established after a probationary period of 200 working hours and shall be calculated on the basis of hours worked with the Employer, with each forty (40) hours worked counting as one (1) week for the purposes of accumulation of seniority.
3.	Part time merchandisers shall be eligible for statutory holiday pay for the number of hours they would have worked if such holiday is part of their regular schedule, provided they report for
- 56 -
work their scheduled day before and their scheduled day after.
Part time merchandisers shall be paid at a rate of time and one half their regular rate of all hours worked on a holiday.
4.	Vacation pay for part time merchandisers will be 4% of their earnings. Part-time merchandisers can elect on an annual basis whether to receive their vacation pay in each pay period or to accumulate it and receive it at the time they take vacation.
5.	Christmas bonus will be paid to part time merchandisers in the amount of $100.00.
6.	The Employer will supply to the part-time merchandisers on hiring one pair of pants and one shirt, and will supply additional pants and shirts if required to a maximum of four pairs of pants and three shirts each year. If part-time merchandisers require additional clothing before the next year’s supply is issued, they may bring in their old clothing and obtain replacements.
The Employer will pay each year $45.00 plus the actual amount of HST reflected on the receipt toward the cost of approved safety footwear appropriate for the type of work being performed. Part-time merchandisers may utilize their receipt from each purchase of safety footwear in each of two consecutive years in order to recover the full $90.00 allowance over a two-year period, however the HST will be reimbursed only once. Such footwear must be used in the performance of the Employer’s business.
7.	A per kilometre driving allowance shall be paid to merchandisers for the distance required to be driven between stores. The rate will be set as per the Employer’s policy.
Part time merchandisers shall be exempt from Article 8, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 22, and 23.5.
In the case of a part time merchandiser who moves into a full time position, he/she shall be entitled to the provisions of the Collective Agreement which apply to full time employees.
Any full-time employees who exercise his/her seniority rights by bumping into a part- time merchandiser position shall not lose entitlement to the provisions of Article 22.1 for a period of four (4) months from the day they become a part time merchandiser.
8.	A part time merchandiser who bids on and receives any full time position must complete a sixty (60) working day probationary period as per Article 8.2. Should they be unsuccessful in completing the probationary period they will be reinstated to their part time position.
- 57 -
APPENDIX "I" - BOILER ROOM
CLASSIFICATION	QUALIFICATIONS	RATE OF PAY OCT 28, 2007 OCT 26, 2008 PER HOUR
Stationary Engineer Level 1	4th Class Stationary Engineer -	Boiler ticket and 2nd Class Stationary Engineer -	Refrigeration ticket	21.96 22.40
Stationary Engineer Level 2	3rd Class Stationary Engineer -	Boiler ticket and 1st Class Stationary Engineer -	Refrigeration ticket	24.00 24.48
Stationary Engineer	Stationary Engineer	appropriate rate plus500 per
Spare	Level l classification minimum	hr.
Power and Refrigeration	Journeyman Industrial	appropriate rate as per
Technician	Mechanics ticket plus4th Class Stationary Engineer - Boiler ticket and 2nd Class Stationary Engineer - Refrigeration ticket	Industrial Mechanics Classification F.I.E. schedule (appendix D) plus $20.00 lump sum payment.
1.	An employee in any Stationary Engineering classification shall be immediately reclassified upon successful completion of the requirements listed in the classification schedule.
It is understood that automatic re-classification does not apply for the Power and Refrigeration Technician position unless a vacancy exists.
2.	Employees in stationary Engineer classifications who are required to work twelve (12) continuous hour shifts shall work a 3 on/3 off shift format, alternating with a day and night rotation. The regular hours of work for the twelve (12) hour continuous shift schedule shall be spread over six (6) consecutive weeks, that is three (3) weeks of thirty six (36) hours and three (3) weeks of forty eight (48) hours.
3.	The work week for all employees covered by the classifications in this appendix starts at 0600 hours Sunday and ends the following Sunday at 0600 hours.
4.	(a) Any work performed in excess of regular scheduled hours of work shall constitute
overtime and shall be paid at one and one-half times the employee's straight time classified rate.
- 58 -
(b)	Employees in Stationary Engineer classifications who are required to work on their
scheduled days off shall be paid
(i)	at one and one half times the employees straight time classified rate for all hours worked on their first and second scheduled days off
(ii)	at two times the employee's straight time classified rate for all hours worked on their third scheduled day off
5.	Any employee(s) whose schedule calls for him/her to work on a holiday as defined in Article 12.1, shall be the person who works that holiday and shall be paid as per Article 12.
When a paid holiday occurs on an employees scheduled day off and the employee is not required to work, he/she shall be paid the applicable hours that are called for in their schedule. On a paid holiday stationary engineer spare operators will be paid ten (10) hours) unless they are covering a regular employee who is off as per Article 9.6 in which case they will be paid as a regular stationary engineer.
6.	For the purpose of determining the sickness benefits as described in Article 13, it is understood that those employees working the twelve (12) continuous hour shifts shall be eligible for a maximum of 50 hours under this entitlement.
7.	Employees covered by the classifications in this appendix shall be eligible to receive shift differential as described in Article 14.13.
8.	For the purpose of Article 13.3 to 13.3.6 and Article 23.5, the number of hours in an employee's work week shall be assumed to be forty (40).
9.	Employees covered by the classifications in this appendix shall be exempt from Article 12.5, 12.5.1 and Article 14 unless otherwise specified.
10.	Employees will be paid for hours actually worked in each workweek (i.e. 36 or 48 straight time hours).
11.	An employee in any Stationary Engineering classification shall not work beyond 15 continuous hours except in the case of emergency. Each employee must have 9 hours between the end of their previous shift, including any overtime hours, and the beginning of their next shift.
12.	Employees in the stationary engineer spare classification will be paid in the following way: when they work a forty-eight (48) hour shift they have the choice to be paid forty (40) regular hours and save eight (8) regular hours or be paid the total forty-eight (48) regular hours. In the weeks in which they work thirty-six (36) regular hours they will be paid thirty-six (36) regular hours and may draw on their saved hours to top up their pay. Saved hours may be taken at other times with the permission of the department supervisor
13.	Paragraph 12 will also apply to an employee in the Power and Refrigeration Technician classification when they are required to cover a Stationary Engineer shift (s) and work 48 hour shift in a work week at regular time.
14.	Overtime for employees in the Stationary Engineer classifications (including the spare) or Power and Refrigeration Technician classification will be assigned as per Article 14.9 to 14.11.8.
- 59 -
APPENDIX “J” - DRIVER JOB BIDDING AND BUMPING CRITERIA
CLASS 03
-	must be 19 years of age or older
-	must have a valid Nova Scotia drivers license for at least 3 years
-	must provide satisfactory medical and optical report prior to training
-	must provide a recent driving abstract from the Nova Scotia Registry of Motor vehicles to be reviewed by the Distribution Supervisor/Trainer
-	must comply with current and future pre-requisites for commercial drivers as outlined in the Provincial Safety Code
-	candidates for driver training will be assessed by a qualified Trainer to ensure that they demonstrate the ability to obtain a license within a reasonable period of time
CLASS 01 (excludes bulk tank - live loads)
-	must be 19 years of age or older
-	must have a valid class 03 Nova Scotia license with air brake endorsement
-	must have at least one year of experience in operating a vehicle registered in excess of 14,000 kg during the past 2 years
-	must provide satisfactory medical and optical reports prior to training
-	must provide a recent driving abstract from the Nova Scotia Registry of Motor Vehicles to be reviewed by the Distribution Supervisor/Trainer
-	must comply with current and future pre-requisites for commercial drivers as outlined in the Provincial Safety Code
-	candidates for driver training will be assessed by a qualified Trainer to ensure that they demonstrate the ability to obtain a class 01 license within a reasonable period of time
-	for employees who currently hold a class 01 licence and have had at least 2 years experience driving Farmers Dairy vehicles requiring a class 01 license, the previous point will not apply and there will be an assessment to determine whether they can satisfactorily perform the driving component of the job they are applying for or seeking to bump into.
-	If the position is awarded to a newly licensed class 01 driver, whether on a posting or a bump, he/she will be required to perform 160 hours on the road training with an experienced driver prior to operating a Farmers vehicle
- 60 -
CLASS 01 - Bulk Tank (Live Load)
-	must be 19 years of age or older
-	must have a valid class 01 Nova Scotia license with air brake endorsement
-	must have at least 3 years of experience (minimum 200 hundred hours per year) in operating a vehicle requiring class 01 license during the past 4 years or 2 years experience driving bulk tank (minimum 200 hours per year) in the previous 4 years.
-	must provide satisfactory medical and optical reports prior to training
-	must provide a recent driving abstract from the Nova Scotia Registry of Motor Vehicles to be reviewed by the Distribution Supervisor/Trainer
-	must comply with current and future pre-requisites for commercial drivers as outlined in the Provincial Safety Code
-	candidates for the driver training will be assessed by a recognized training institute to ensure that they demonstrate the ability to haul ‘live loads’
-	Following the awarding of the position, whether on a posting or on a bump, the successful candidates will be required to perform 160 hours on the road training with an experienced “bulk tank” driver prior to operating a Farmers vehicle carrying ‘live loads’.
- 61 -
RAIN GEAR POLICY
Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited agrees to supply adequate rain gear to applicable employees provided they read over the following policy and sign, if agreed, at the bottom of the page.
1.	All rain gear is the property of Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited and will be used for work related duties only.
2.	Torn or damaged rain gear will be repaired or replaced by Farmers provided the items are returned to the supervisor. Lost or stolen items will be the responsibility of the employee and will, therefore, be replaced immediately by them.
3.	A signed copy of the issue will be given to the employee, their supervisor and Personnel for their file.
4.	Should an employee terminate employment with Farmers Dairy, the gear shall be returned to the supervisor before they issue the employee's final pay.
Issue:
Received by:	Date:
Authorized by:	Date:
- 62 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SPLIT SHIFTS
This letter will confirm our understanding reached at negotiations with respect to "split shifts".
The present use of split shifts shall remain in practice at the distribution branches. It is not the intent of the Employer to extend this practice to Bedford operations.
FOR THE EMPLOYER:	FOR THE UNION:
DATE
- 63 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - RETURN TO WORK
An employee who returns to work after an absence due to illness or injury within 2 years and can perform the essential duties of their pre injury/illness position shall return to his or her same job.
An employee who returns after these time limits have expired, or within the time limits but is determined he/she will be unable to perform their former job on a permanent basis, may exercise his/her seniority rights as per Article 9.10 to obtain a work assignment he/she can safely perform.
The employee who is displace may exercise his seniority rights as per Article 9.10 of the Collective Agreement.
If an employee returns under the Progressive Return to Work Program to a job other than his pre injury/illness position and his/her condition later improves so that he/she can perform the essential duties of his pre injury/illness job the employee may at that time return to his former position provided it is within the 2 year time limit.
In the event an employee is unable to perform any of the positions as described above, the Disability Management Committee will meet to discuss what alternative options might be available to the employee.
The committee will consider both the Union and Employer’s duty to accommodate.
In all cases, an employee’s eligibility to perform the required work satisfactorily shall be determined:
1.	through discussions with the employee, his doctor, occupational health nurse and the insurer’s return to work coordinator.
2.	and a reasonable training period (at least the period of time that would be required by an average employee)
An unclassified or casual may be assigned to work as a second to an employee who has returned to work under the progressive return to work program and is unable to complete all aspect of his job. The unclassified or casual employee may only work the same number of hours as the disabled employee.
(i.e. driver helper)
If an employee returns to work and is unable to work the full number of hours in their shift an unclassified or casual may be assigned to work the remaining hours of the scheduled shift.
FOR THE EMPLOYER:	FOR THE UNION
DATE
- 64 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SENIORITY OF NEW GROUPS
Effective May 4, 1992, Seniority of new groups unionized as of December 3, 1991 shall have their seniority calculated from their most recent date of hire.
Part Time Merchandisers shall have their seniority calculated for time worked with the Employer.
For the purposes of this "Letter of Understanding":
-	Part Time Merchandisers shall only be given seniority credit for the days they actually work It is understood that this letter only applies to the employee who joined the union on December 3, 1991 and in no way affects or interferes with any personnel adjustments, including bumping, lay off or job postings that occurred prior to May 4, 1992.
-	The use of "most recent date of hire" for seniority calculation shall only be applicable to the employees who joined the union as of December 3, 1991.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE EMPLOYER
DATE
- 65 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - ON-GOING PROCESS
The intention of the parties is to establish an ongoing process by which they can negotiate and resolve the remaining bargaining issues and any new issues that may arise.
Structure of Meetings:
The parties agree to come to the meeting prepared to discuss the agenda items in order to minimize the need for caucuses and maximize the use of meeting time.
The parties agree to use the IBN process during the meetings.
Minutes of the meetings will be kept and circulated to the participants following the meeting (and in sufficient time that they can be used to prepared for the next month’s meeting).
Agreements Reached:
How an agreement reached is formalized will depend on the nature of the agreement and specifically on whether an amendment to the collective agreement is required to implement the resolution of the issue.
Communication of issues resolved and other outcomes will be determined by the parties on a case-bycase basis.
There is no restriction on the issues that can be brought forward by the parties, but if the other party will not discuss an issue, or an issue cannot be resolved in this process, the party advancing it must put it on their bargaining agenda for the next round of formal negotiations.
If a party is frustrated by the process, it must call for help to Laurie Rantala - unilateral quitting of the process is not permitted.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE EMPLOYER
DATE
- 66 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - MERCHANDISERS
This will confirm our understanding reached at negotiations that the three employees listed below will be recognized as full time merchandisers. As such each of these employees will be granted union seniority as per the collective agreement.
Ted Thompson Steve Clattenburg Jeff Dowling
FOR THE EMPLOYER	FOR THE UNION
- 67 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - NUMBER OF MERCHANDISERS
This will confirm our understanding reached at negotiations regarding the review of part time merchandising positions. It is agreed that a review has been undertaken of all part time merchandiser work in an attempt to increase the number of full time merchandising positions. This review has indicated that there will be three new full time positions. These jobs will be posted on the signing of the collective agreement
The total number of full time merchandisers will be fifteen. If the number of full time merchandisers falls below this level the union and the Employer will meet to discuss the ratio of full to part time merchandisers.
FOR THE EMPLOYER
FOR THE UNION
- 68 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SHIFTS
This will confirm our understanding reached at negotiations regarding employees who work shifts which cross over two days, one of which is part of a weekend. It is agreed that employees who have requested and are permitted to work this type of shift due to their own convenience will be allowed to continue this practice. It is understood that these employees are not entitled to any premium pay to which they would have otherwise been entitled due to the nature of their shift. Each of these employees will be required to sign off on their agreement. By signing off they are not agreeing to waive any premium to which they are entitled due to working hours outside their normal shift (ie. If they are required to come in earlier or stay later than their normal shift or for a call in). Either the Employer or the employee with seven (7) days written notice copied to the union can terminate these agreements.
If any of these positions are vacated or changed they will not be posted as weekend work shifts.
If any other employee wishes to enter into an agreement to work hours that fall into this category they must make a request to their supervisor who will examine the request against operational requirements.
If the request is granted the employee will be required to sign an agreement as established above and the union will be provided with a copy.
Employees who are currently in shifts which cross over two days for their own convenience have signed letters in their employee files. On request from the union the Employer will provide a complete list of employees who have entered into this agreement
There are a number of positions which currently are required to cross over two days one of which is part of a weekend and are paid premium pay for the hours which are on a weekend day. The following positions fall into this category.
Processor
Sanitation Operator Milk Filling Operator
It is agreed by both parties that the following positions have been properly posted as having shifts which include weekend work at straight time pay as per article 14.4:
Sanitation Operator - Processing - 3 positions Shipper Operator - Milk Shipping - 6 positions
FOR THE EMPLOYER	FOR THE UNION
- 69 -
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - WEEKEND WORK
On March 29, 1996, Bruce Outhouse issued an Arbitration Decision concerning the assignment of weekend work. The decision clearly addressed the matters raised in the grievance but left a number of issues still unresolved. Rather than return to the Arbitrator at this time, the parties have agreed to the following;
A)	This Agreement applies to inside workers only.
B)	There are only four possible ways an employee can be assigned to work Saturday or Sunday as regular work days;
1)	Reschedule employees who currently work Monday to Friday to work Saturday or Sunday.
2)	Create, post and fill new positions that have Saturday, Sunday or both as regular workdays such that the total number of employees in the department increases. The Employer will notify the union when a new weekend shift job is added under this provision.
3)	Take existing Monday to Friday work and transfer it to a new job that has Saturday, Sunday or both as regular work days, post and fill the position, then through layoff eliminate a Monday to Friday position. The total number of employees in the department will remain the same.
4)	Post and fill an existing, previously occupied, weekend position that has become vacant.
C)	The Employer will not reschedule employees who currently work Monday to Friday to work Saturday or Sunday as a regular workday. (# 1 above)
D)	The Union will not object to the Employer creating new positions that have Saturday, Sunday or both as regular work days provided that these new positions will not cause or result in the lay-off of any Monday to Friday workers and that the total number of employees in the department will increase. (# 2 above)
- 70 -
E)	If the Employer intends to take existing Monday to Friday work and transfer it to a new job that has Saturday, Sunday or both as regular work days (# 3 above), it will;
1)	In advance, notify the Union in writing of the nature of the job and why weekend work
is necessary
2)	Convene a meeting with the Union Grievance Committee to fully discuss the matter
and explore other possible solutions that minimize weekend assignments.
3)	Only if the Union Grievance Committee agrees that weekend work is acceptable for
the new job the Employer will;
a)	In order of seniority, canvass the department for volunteers for the new job.
b)	If there are no volunteers for the new job, post the position as contemplated in Article 9.
c)	As the filling of the new job will result in increasing the number of employees in the department, the Employer may reduce the number of employees in the department back to the level that existed prior to the new job being filled. Reduction will be through a normal layoff in accordance with Article 9 except that prior to awarding the posted position to the successful candidate, the Employer will indicate to the junior department employee that is to be laid off the name, department and seniority of the successful candidate. If the junior department employee is senior to the successful employee and chooses to bump into the new job he/she will be given the job and the successful candidate who bid on the new position will stay in his old position. The junior department employee who bumps into the new job will not be able to bid on another position for six months.
F)	The Union will not object to nor is Union Agreement necessary for the Employer to post and fill an existing, previously occupied, vacant weekend position (# 4 above). However the Union may request that the Employer comply with steps E 1 and 2 above.
The Parties agree that either of them, for any reason, with written notice to the other can cancel and void this Letter of Agreement. If this Letter is cancelled and voided, neither weekend work assignments that occurred after January 1, 2000 nor this Letter of Agreement will be used as evidence in any grievance or arbitration proceeding concerning weekend work. Further, this Letter or any understanding of the operation of the Collective Agreement regarding weekend work expressed in this Letter is without prejudice to any position either party may take in the future regarding weekend work.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE EMPLOYER
DATE
- 71 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - PAYMENT FOR TRAINING AND MEETINGS
This will confirm our understanding with regard to how employees are to be paid for attending training or meetings that are required by management.
Training and meetings will be paid at the applicable rate required by the collective agreement. Payment will be made for time actually spent in the training session.
Management will attempt to schedule this training on employees’ regular shifts. An employee may be required to report to their job before or after the training in order to make a full day of work or if the supervisor decides this is not feasible they will be paid for a full day. Employees will be advised of their schedule prior to the day of training. If the training cannot be scheduled on the employee’s regular shift, the employees shift will be changed to accommodate the training requirements. If there is a need to cover the employees regular shift, that can not be met by rescheduling another classified employee, or by using an unclassified, floater or spare in the position at straight time, the employee’s regular shift will be offered as overtime and assigned as per article 14.11.
These provisions do not apply to meetings when employees attend on union business, off site training which is away from home (ie. maintenance training), training initiated by the employee for their own upgrading, Employer training which is not required, but which the employee has expressed a desire to attend, community college or university training, and employee meetings which are optional.
It is up to supervisors to make clear when training or meetings are scheduled if it is voluntary and that it will be paid at straight time.
When employees are required to travel on Saturday and/or Sunday to attend training they will be paid a non-taxable lump sum payment for the inconvenience of traveling during the weekend.
(i)	if the employee leaves any time during the day on Saturday to attend training on Monday they would receive $ 160.00 lump sum payment or
(ii)	if the employee leaves prior to 12 noon on Sunday they would receive $80.00.
(iii)	if the employee leaves after 12 noon on Sunday they would not receive a payment.
(iv)	if the employee requests an earlier flight they would not receive a payment.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE EMPLOYER
DATE
- 72 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - PENSION BRIDGING
In lieu of an additional .5% increase on October 31, 2003, ($60,000) .2%,($20,000), on October 30,
2005 and .12% ($11,000) on October 29, 2006 In total, the Employer agrees to allocate $80,000 on an annual basis for 2006 and $91,000 annually thereafter to a fund for the purpose of providing a bridging allowance to employees retiring prior to the normal retirement age (65 years of age).
To be eligible to draw from this fund the employee must: retire, be between the ages of 60 and 65 years, and have a minimum of 30 years service with the Employer at the time of retirement ( which will include any time receiving LTD wage replacement only if the employee fully returns to work prior to retirement) .
If employee who has achieved the 30 years of service chooses to retire in advance of reaching age 60 shall become eligible to start drawing from the fund the month following their 60th birthday.
An employee meeting the criteria is entitled to draw from the fund on a monthly basis $450.00 until they reach the age of 65. It is understood that the purpose of this fund is to provide additional retirement income to employees until they are eligible for the Old Age Security.
The annual $91,000 allocation as well as any money that remains in this fund will not be available to the Union to fund any pension plan improvements or collective agreement retirement provisions that the Employer and the Union may agree to in the future until the fund can satisfy all past bridging commitments and those made to employees who commenced receiving the bridging payment during the period of this contract to age 65.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE EMPLOYER
DATE
- 73 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING- EMPLOYER’S PENSION:
This will confirm and document the understanding between Farmers Dairy and the CEP Union, Local 40N, regarding the Farmers Dairy Pension Plan. It supersedes the previous agreement on Pension, which was outlined in Point 25 (possible creation of a separate pension plan) of the Memorandum of Agreement dated and signed by the parties on December 13, 2002. It does not affect Point 26 (Bridging Window) of that document.
Definitions:
Improvements are the specific improvements, funding and timetable, together with all other points outlined in the Employer’s July 22, 2004 presentation and any clarifications or agreed amendments contained in follow-up e-mails. Also included are any future amendments to the specific improvements, funding, timetable, or priorities which the parties may make provided they are agreed in writing and form part of this Understanding.
Acceptable Delays are delays of Improvements caused by:
1.	Poorer than anticipated performance of the Plan’s investments,
2.	Changes in the demographics of the workforce,
3.	Updating of actuarial assumptions which will take priority,
4.	Higher than anticipated actual costs at the time of the upgrade
5.	Any impact such that the implementation of the Improvements would require the costs of such improvements to be paid for, other than by employees (by increased premium contributions or forgoing wage increases or exchanges of benefits identified by employees and agreed by the Employer). At the point that these actions by employees, allow the implementation of the improvements, the Employer shall recommence implementation of the improvements as provided for in the July 22, 2004 presentation and agreed amendments.
6.	The solvency fund failing to have a surplus at all times.
The Improvements, implemented and proposed, will be reviewed by the Parties annually.
Subject to Acceptable Delays, the Employer commits to implement the Improvements.
Should it fail in this commitment, for reasons within its control, and such failure is confirmed by an arbitrator as outlined below, the Union will have the right to move the bargaining unit employees of the Employer, represented by CEP Local 40N, into a separate pension plan as contemplated in Point 25 of the Memorandum of Agreement dated and signed by the parties on December 13, 2002.
For any period of time the Union does not agree to increased contributions or to forgo the wage increases as required for the improvements at the time outlined in the plan, it will not be entitled to exercise its above right to a separate Pension Plan nor to submit the question outlined below to arbitration.
If the Union feels that the Employer has failed to meet its commitment for reasons within its control, it must give written notice of such to Farmers (to the Vice-President of Human Resources).
Upon receipt, the Employer shall have two (2) months to implement the Improvements or provide an
- 74 -
agreed plan for implementation of improvements 1to explain in writing how the failure to implement the Improvements is an Acceptable Delay or for reasons not within its control, or take the actions necessary to establish a separate Pension Plan for Union members as contemplated in the December 13, 2002 Memorandum
If the Employer chooses a written explanation (point 1) and the Union is not satisfied with it, it may submit the following question for determination by the arbitration process provided for under the Arbitration Act (NS).
“Has the Employer failed in its commitment to implement the Improvements for reasons that are not Acceptable Delays and are within its control?”
The Employer and Union will agree upon Milton Veinot as the arbitrator to hear the matter. The parties will share the expense of the arbitrator however, Mr. Veinot’s rate will be compared to Mr. Outhouse’s. Any amount that Mr. Veinot’s rate exceeds Mr. Outhouse’s will be borne by the Employer.
If the Arbitrator affirms the above question the Employer will have a reasonable time as determined by the Arbitrator in keeping with the July 22, /04 presentation and amendments, to either implement the Improvements or take the actions necessary to establish a separate Pension Plan for Union members as contemplated in Point 25 in the December 13, 2002 Memorandum.
It is agreed that the only matter, which may be referred to arbitration as a result of this letter of understanding, is the above question (including the determination of ‘reasonable time’ if the arbitrator finds the Employer has failed).
Although it is reproduced in this printed document, it is agreed that neither this Letter of Understanding, the Employer’s Pension Plan, the July 22, 2004 presentation shall in any way form part of the Collective Agreement between the parties, nor shall they be subject to any grievance/arbitration procedure under the Nova Scotia Trade Union Act.”
As of April 26, 2005 the Employer will increase its contribution to the Pension Plan by .65% as contemplated in the above letter of understanding on pensions.
As of October 30, 2005 the Employer will increase its contribution to the Pension Plan by .65% as contemplated in the above letter of understanding on pensions.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE EMPLOYER
DATE
- 75 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - 2 CONSECUTIVE DAYS OFF
This will confirm our understanding with regard to the route changes for the Metro Chain Store
and Special delivery drivers. The intent of the agreement is to restructure the current work of the
Chain Store Drivers in an effort to resolve grievance 29.02 and provide Metro Chain Store
Drivers with two consecutive days off. The parties have agreed to the following:
1.	The Employer will implement the attached route schedule prior to July 1, 2007.
2.	The attached route schedule is comprised of the current work of the five Metro Chain Store Drivers, one Special Delivery Driver #2 (Special Delivery Driver #1 will not be affected Monday-Friday) and eight hours work from the current Wholesale Drivers Work (Wal-Mart Bedford and Atlantic Cash & Carry).
3.	The Employer and Union will monitor the new routes to ensure the route structure is compliant with the letter of understanding entitled “Driver Routes”.
4.	The Employer and Union will also monitor the routes and restructure where required to ensure that the workload will be distributed as evenly as possible between the five Chain Store Drivers.
5.	Work may be added to the routes if the regular work schedule is less than the number of regular hours calculated as per the “Driver Routes” agreement. If the regular work schedule is less the Employer will:
a.	First assign chain store customers to the routes; or
b.	Assign other work as per the Collective Agreement.
6.	Any assignment of other work must be in compliance with the Collective Agreement.
The Union will meet at the request of the Employer to discuss other work.
7.	In recognition of the fact the changes will occur during the summer vacation period, the Employer will ensure appropriate provisions are made so that the new route changes will not affect vacations already scheduled for this vacation year.
8.	Drivers affected by the route changes may select their preferred route by seniority within their classification.
9.	Training will be provided to the drivers affected to upgrade their license qualification if needed.
10.	If a driver does not accept the route changes, he/she may exercise his seniority rights as per Article 9.10 to obtain another work assignment when the initial schedule changes take place or after 12 weeks of performing the new route (not including training time).
11.	Special Delivery drivers who are required to perform chain store deliveries for a full scheduled day will be paid a $10 lump sum and overtime after the regular scheduled hours in the day.
- 76 -
12.	Either party may withdraw from this agreement with 30 days written notice and revert back to the previous schedule for hours and days of work. This time period may be extended by mutual agreement.
13.	The arbitration will be rescheduled for March 27 & 28, 2008. The Employer and Union agree that the arrangement set forth under this Letter of Understanding is on a without prejudice basis and the existence of this arrangement can not be referenced or referred to at any arbitration hearing dealing with the issues which form the basis of grievance
29.02."
14.	The Employer and the Union will discuss before the expiration of the current collective agreement changes required to amend the Collective Agreement to reflect this letter of understanding.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE EMPLOYER
DATE
- 77 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - THREE DAY WORK WEEK FOR WHOLESALE DRIVERS
This will confirm our understanding with regard to the implementation of a three day work week for
Wholesale Drivers. The parties have agreed to the following:
Operation of Routes:
1.	The normal work week for wholesale drivers with a three day work schedule will consist of Monday, Wednesday, and Friday or Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
2.	Each work day will be established in compliance with the legislated requirements and the guidelines set forth in Article 16. Drivers will not be required to depart from the home base two or more times unless mutually agreed by the union.
3.	This three day work week agreement will only apply to Wholesale Drivers.
Route Selection:
1.	The new routes will be posted for all members to bid and will be filled by the most senior employee who meets the qualifications as outlined in Appendix J.
2.	If a current wholesale driver is not satisfied with the route structure selected, he/she may request to access his/her bumping rights, without meeting the normal lay off criteria at the beginning of the bidding process or at the end of 5 work weeks.
3.	The vacant position will then be posted for all members to bid.
Payment:
1.	Overtime will be paid to salaried drivers as per Article 16.
2.	The Employer agrees to allow each Wholesale Driver who works a three day work week the equivalent of one week plus one day (total of 52 hours) off with pay per calendar year for personal leave. Each week will equal the amount of scheduled hours normally worked by the employee.
3.	Current Wholesale Drivers who are successful in bidding into a revised wholesale route will not be affected by the loss of wages from route changes while they remain in the wholesale classification for a period of 22 weeks as per article 16.2. This guarantee does not include a loss of wages due to normal volume loss on the route.
4.	A wholesale driver working a three day work schedule will receive the following compensation for Holiday Pay.
Holiday Pay	If not required to work	If required to work
		July 30, 2007
Upto to 9,999 litres	93.00	568.90
10,000-11,499 litres	100.00	576.24
11,500-12,499 litres	107.00	590.24
12,500 and over	127.00	623.58
- 78 -
5.	Spare Drivers performing 3 Day wholesale routes will be paid an addition lump sum daily.
Up to 10,000 L
11.000	to 11,999 L
12.000	to 12,999 L
13.000	and over
$35 per day $44 per day $53 per day $60 per day
Route Review:
1.	The three day route schedule will be reviewed after six (6) months (March 1, 2008). After this point, if both parties mutually agree not to continue the three day work schedule the routes will be reorganized to a four or five day work schedule.
2.	If only one party elects not to continue the three day work schedule arrangement, it will remain in place until September 1, 2008 or such time that both parties agree not to continue the arrangement.
3.	After September 1, 2008 either party may give 90 days notice not to continue the three day work schedule arrangement and revert back to a four (4) or five (5) day work schedule.
It is mutually agreed that the current drivers will be assigned to operate the routes during the initial implementation period, July 30, 2007 to September 1, 2007. Current drivers who expressed a desire to bump out of their current position will not be required to remain on a wholesale route beyond September 1, 2007.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE EMPLOYER
DATE
- 79 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - COVERAGE OF ABSENCES IN BRANCH AREAS
The following agreement is intended to outline procedures in covering employee absences in the Branch areas effective January 31, 2008.
Step #1 - Branch employees who travel frequently from the Bedford Plant to their area of work (e.g. Kentville, Bridgewater & Truro ice cream drivers) may have their absences covered by qualified Bedford unclassifieds or spare drivers.
Step #2 - Canvass full time branch employees by seniority for volunteers willing to train and cover for driver’s absences within their branch. Full time branch employees who cover for driver’s absences will be paid the higher rate for the day worked on the higher rated job as per Article 14.19.
Step #3 - Offer training to part time branch merchandisers to cover absences in the branch areas. Part time merchandisers will be paid the higher rated job if they work in place of a full time merchandiser who is covering for a driver’s absence.
Step #4 -	Utilize Bedford spare drivers and unclassifieds to cover absences.
Step #5 -	Establish new unclassified positions for 2 geographical areas:
1) Truro/Bridgewater	2) Yarmouth/Kentville
Travel expenses will be reimbursed as per the Employer’s travel policy. Employees who are expected to travel to another branch to work or pick up a vehicle will be paid their hourly rate from the time they leave their regular reporting home base to the time they arrive back to their regular reporting home base.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE EMPLOYER
DATE
- 80 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - STORM DAY
In the event of severe weather conditions that may force school closure or a recommendation from law enforcement for individuals to stay off the road, employees must call into the Employee Information Centre to receive information concerning the work day in their department. Employees located at a Branch or Middleton Plant must call their supervisor. Merchandisers must call into their voice mail.
Call 835-4005 - At main greeting press 5 and enter Security Code 38888.
Employees will receive one of the following three messages regarding their respective department.
A.	Message that employees are required to come to work
B.	Message that employees are required to stay home
C.	Message that employees are required to call their supervisor
If the message received is (a) and employees are required to come to work, employees are expected to report to work at their regular scheduled start time.
1.	If due to individual circumstances an employee is unable to report to work, that employee must call their supervisor and arrange to use personal leave as per Article
13.13.2.	(d).
2.	If an employee is late and cannot provide a definite time for their arrival, that employee will be deemed to be unavailable for work unless other arrangements can be made with their supervisor. An employee must use personal leave for any hours not worked as per Article 13.13.2. (d).
3.	If the conditions are such that it is practical to pick employees up, and transportation is made available, an employee cannot refuse to be picked up and taken home unless there are critical conditions requiring an employee’s personal attention at home.
4.	Employees will not be disciplined for not coming to work in storm conditions if they have a satisfactory explanation and have reported in to their supervisor.
If the message received is (b) and employees are required to stay home, employees will be paid for the scheduled hours they would have worked for that day or balance of hours if required to leave while on shift.
1.	If employees are at work and an option to leave is available because the department will be closed, the senior employee will get to leave first. If employees are required to stay, the junior employees will be forced to stay as long as there is a qualified workforce remaining.
2.	If an employee is on leave and is off prior to a closure of a department, the employee will continue on that leave. (e.g. An employee had a prescheduled vacation or personal day, or the employee is on sick leave.)
If the message received is (c) and employees are required to call their supervisor, the supervisor will provide individuals with more specific details or instructions regarding their respective departments.
1. If there is a delay in production, employees are expected to report to work when work becomes available. Any agreement or notification of shift change will be made prior to coming to work.
- 81 -
GUIDELINES FOR EMPLOYEES WHO ATTEND JURY SELECTION
These guidelines will provide a reference for managers and supervisors to use when employees are required to attend jury selection. It is the intention that these guidelines will help ensure that employees are treated fairly and as consistently as circumstances will permit.
1.	employees will be required to notify their supervisor as soon as possible when they receive notice for jury selection.
2.	the employee and the supervisor will try to find a solution which will cause the least disruption to the operation of the department.
3.	employees will not be required to work an unreasonable number of hours when combined with those spent at jury selection or an unreasonable combination of shifts.
4.	employees will be provided with a reasonable amount of time prior to their attendance at jury selection to clean up and change.
5.	when time does not allow an employee to report to work prior to jury selection the supervisor and employee will discuss options to schedule the day.
6.	the supervisor may change an employees shift to better accommodate their attendance at jury selection. This must be done within the constraints of the collective agreement.
7.	The employee may be required to return to work if it is feasible.
8.	supervisors should ensure that employees are treated as consistently as possible, remembering that individual circumstances may require some employees receiving different treatment.
- 82 -