COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
DATED THIS 33(Q day of the month of felrfiMWq, J<M 1/
BETWEEN :	Famers Co-operative Dairy Limited
P. 0. BOX 8118 Halifax, Nova Scotia B3K 5Y6
AND:	Communication, Energy 4 Paper
Workers Union Local 40 N
iron or reticles
1.	OBJECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT
2.	BARGAINING UNIT
3.	MUTUAL RIGHTS AND BENEFITS
4.	UNION SECURITY
5.	UNION REPRESENTATION
6.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.	ARBITRATION
8.	SENIORITY
9.	PROMOTIONS, LAY-OFFS, REHIRINGS
10.	DISCHARGE
11.	PAID HOLIDAYS
12.	PAID VACATION
13.	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
14.	RULES GOVERNING DRIVER SALESPERSONS
15.	ROUTECUTONG
16.	WAGES
17.	UNIFORMS
18.	ABSENCES
19.	BULLETIN BOARDS
20.	MEDICAL EXAMINATION
21.	SECURITY PLAN
22.	SICKNESS BENEFITS
23.	general
24.	SAFETY
25.	SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
26.	DURATION OF AGREEMENT

COLLECTIVE LABOUR AgBEEKEHT
DATED THIS	day of the month of fiJb/oOrq, iQ^U
BETWEEN;	Earners Co-operative Dairy Limited
P. 0. BOX 8118,
Halifax, Nova Scotia
hereinafter referred to as the "Employer*
AND:	Connunication, Energy 6 Paper Workers Union
Local 40 N
hereinafter referred to as the "Union*
WITNESSETH that the Employer and the Union hereby mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - OBJECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT:
A.	The intent and purpose of this Agreement shall be tC promote and improve industrial and economic relations in the industry, to establish and maintain a high degree of discipline and efficiency and to Set forth herein the basic agreements c overing rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment which will render justice to all.
B« The parties hereto desire to cooperate in establishing and maintaining proper and suitable conditions in the Company which will tend to secure uniform and equitable terms of employment satisfactory to Employer and employees, to provide methods for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes which may arise between them, and foster goodwill, friendly relations and batter understanding between the parties.
ARTICLE,.BARGAINING UNIT:
A.	The Employer recognizes the Union to be the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees hereinafter defined to be in the bargaining unit, and those employees shall, be all employees of the Employer excluding supervisors, employees of the rank of foreperson or &b0V6; salespersons other than driver salespersons/ office staff and those excluded by Section 2 (2) (a) and (b) of the Trade Union Act of Nova
Scotia*
B.	Porepersons end those above the rank of forepersons will not perform bargaining unit work except:
X* In emergency conditions
2. For the purpose of demonstration or training 3* To relieve W employee for breaks 4. When the regular employee is absent and no replacement is available
Sales supervisors shall continua to perform their normal sales and ■erchandlsing activities provided, however, that such activities shall not be extended by the Company so as to cause the ley-Off of any bargaining Unit employee.
C.	There will be no contracting out of Wholesale Routes, Long Haul, Bulk Tank or Garage during the life of this agreement. This section is not retroactive end appli es to work being currently performed by the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 3 - MimiAL RIGHTS AND BENEFITS;
A.	Ho employee shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written contract which may limitf alter, modify, or conflict with tbe stipulations of this Agreement.
B.	There shall be no lockout by the Employer and no strike by the Union during the term of this Agreement*
C.	In administering this Agreement the Union and the Company shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a manner consistent with this agreement.
The parties agree that each Vill comply With the provisions of the Nova Scotia Human Rights Act.
D* The union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the employer to manage and control the Employer's operations and without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing:
1.	To maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
2.	To hire, discharge, transfer, promote, classify, demote, discipline, suspend, layoff, transfer and assign work to eaploy.es and to introduce new or improved methods or. facilities; provided that a claim that an employee h®S been.- discharged or disciplined without just cause may 'be the subject of a grievance. and dealt with as hereinafter provided;
3. Generally, tO menage, control, continue, discontinue in whole or in part, the Employer's operations and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to detersine the number of employees, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines and processes to be used, and the expansion, limitation or cessation of operations.
4« The Employer shall retain at all times the right to maintain a sufficient qualified Workforce for the proper efficient operation of the Company.
5. Nothing in this management rights clause shall detract from the rights of management as exercised in the past.
6« However, the exercise of the functions of Management trill be consistent with the terse and provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - DNIPN SECURITY;
A.	All employees covered by this agreement shall at the time of hiring sign a dues check off fora for the union as a condition of employment.
B.	Monthly union dues shall be deducted from the pay of any employee who has completed a probationary period of twenty-five (25) working days and has worked at least five (5) days in the month. The amount to be deducted shall be that determined by a resolution of the Union and such resolution to be provided to the Company.
The dues collected shall be forwarded to the Secretary Treasurer of the local union, by the tenth day of the month following the period for which deductions have been made.
The Company shall include a list in alphabetical order showing the names of the employees from Whom deductions have bean made and the total amount deducted from each employee.
C.	The Company shall deduct monthly union dues from high school, college and university students of two hours wage per month. Students will be hired from the period of April 15 through to September 15 of the 0&oe year. Students, Upon completing 120 working days in e calendar year, will Join the Union and his/her seniority date Will be calculated on the 221St working day for that individual.
If a student does not return to school, and is not laid off, the seniority date will be assigned on the 26th working day after September 15. The Student, at this point, must go to the unclassified pool if there is an opening.
The Company shall deduct initiation fees along with monthly union dues and remit sane to the Union*
A.	The Employer acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or elect a Shop Steward for the employees, and if the operations are fiUCh as cannot be handled by one steward only, additional stewards say he appointed or elected.
B.	The Employer shall recognize a Union Grievance Committee
comprised of tVO (2) members, both of whom shall be employees of the Company and appointed by the Union.
C.	The Union agrees to advise the Employer in writing of the names of the Shop Steward(s) and members of the Grievance
Committee and of any subsequent change in the names thereof.
D.	The Union Representative Shall With the permission of the Employer be permitted to enter the Employer's premises on
Union business provided he/she does not unduly interfere with the operations or progress of the work .
E. (l) For matters arising within the Bedford Plant, the shop Steward(s) shalLbe allowed the necessary time off with pay to investigate and settle grievances on the premises. They shall
be free to discharge their duties without fear that their relations with the Company may be affected. The Shop Steward
shall act in good faith and not abuse these rights and Shall make honest attempts to settle grievances.
M2) For matters arising outside the Redford Plant, the Employer agrees to provide compensation to the Shop Steward (s) who are required to attend personally, at one of the branches for union business* This compensation Will include travel tine and time spent on the Employer's premises. It i s mutually agreed, however, that the Employer's obligation to provide such compensation shall be limited to a maximum amount
equal to 200 hours (at regular rates) in any given calendar year.
P. A Shop Steward shall be an employee of the Employer.
There shall he no discrimination against a Shop Steward for Union activities.
G» An employee shall have the right to have his/her Shop Steward present at any meeting With a supervisor when such meeting Concerns disciplinary action far that employee. In the absence of the regular Shop Steward, the Chief shop
steward may attend.
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
A.	(1) The parties to this Agreement recognize that within the Grievance Procedure there lies the Beans for resolution of differences of interpretation or Violation or alleged violation of any one of the stipulations of this Agreement or working conditions by the Employer or the employees who are wavered by this Agreement.
(2) The Union may file a grievance on behalf of all employees or any restricted number of employees or Oil behalf of au individual employee Where the Union believes there has been violation of the Collective Agreement affecting ah employee or e group of employees. Such grievance may be filed directly at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
FIRST STEP:
B.	An attempt Will be made between the shop steward and the employee, with the department supervisor to settle the matter verbally.
SECOND SIEEl
C.	If this attempt is unsuccessful, a grievance shall be submitted in writing to the department supervisor within tan (10) working days of the day the matter of the grievance
occurred. The supervisor shall then meet with the Steward and employee and a decision shall be rendered within five (5) working days of receipt of the grievance.
THIRD mPi
D* Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement at step two, the Union shall within five (5) working days, submit the grievance to the manager or his representative who shall then meet with the grievance committee and render a decision Within five (5) working days. The grievance committee may have the assistance of the National Representative of the Union at this stage.
rWRIH.STSE:.
E.	Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement, the grievance may within ten (10) days then be referred to An arbitrator in accordance with Article 7 of this Agreement.
F.	Anyy grievance not submitted within the tine lilitS provided for in steps one, tWQ. or three shall automatically expire; however, the tine Units nay be extended by mutual agreeaent of both parties.
ARTICL - ASBITRATIOH i
A.	No natter may be submitted to an Arbitrator unless settlement thereof has been attempted through the Grievance Procedure set forth in Article 6.
B.	The Enployer and Union shell agree on an Arbitrator within four (4) days following the notice of Arbitration given by one or the other party.
C» should either party refuse to agree on an Arbitrator, such appointment may be made by final and binding decision of the Nova Scotia Minister of Labour.
D. Thfe decision of the Arbitrator Shall be given within fourteen (14) days following the hearing and shall be final and binding on both parties. It is understood, however, that the Arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the stipulations of this Agreement, nor to delete, alter, or modify any part thereof, provided however, the Arbitrator my alter any discipline imposed by the Company, including altering a discharge to a suspension if the Arbitrator deems it just.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY:
A. Seniority Shall be defined as the length of continuous employment with the Company while a member of the bargaining unit.
B. Seniority rights shall be established separately for:
u) Bedford HilX Division 4 Ice Cream Division
(2)	Bulk Tank Graders
(3)	Haulers
w Truro Distribution Centre
(5)	Kentville Distribution Centre
(6)	Annapolis Distribution Centre (7} Middleton Distribution Centre
(8)	Yarmouth Distribution Centre
(9)	Shelburne Distribution Centre
(10)	Bridgewater Distribution Centre
(11)	Garage Workers " Bedford
(12)	Spread P lant - Middleton
(13)	Merchandisers - Bedford • Pull Time and Part Time
(14)	Lunenburg Dairy
All branches except for (2), (3), (11), (12), (13) and (14)
shall have two seniority groups:
(A) Drivers and Driver-Salespersons <B) All other employees
Seniority m all cases is to be calculated from the date of Acquisition by Farmers or at the date of completion of the probationary period as outlined in paragraph C, whichever is the latter.
This section B shall not be construed to mean that unskilled employees shall be promoted into jobs requiring special
qualifications.
C.	The seniority of each fulltime employee covered by this Agreement shall be established after a probationary period of twenty-five (25) working days upon completion of Which seniority shall be calculated from the day the employee was hired.
Employees hired as unclassified Union workers will have their seniority assigned on the 26th day worked during their probationary period 80 as to protect any person hired the same day as a fulltime employee. If during the probationary period the unclassified employee is accepted on A posted position f their seniority date will be their date of hire.
D.	An employee’s seniority shell be forfeited for the following reasons:
(1)	If he/she voluntarily resigns;
(2)	If he/she is discharged for just cause;
(3)	If be/she has been absent for five (5) working days without notifying the Employer, or without reasonable excuse
E.	(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, an employee unable to work because of proven illness or injury shall accumulate and retain seniority rights. When such employee returns to work within twelve (12) months, he/she shall have his/her same job , provided be/She is able to perform the work.
If upon discussion between the employee, his/her medical doctor, and the Employer, it is obvious that the employee cannot return to his/her same job within the twelve (12) month period, the position will be posted, upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
(2)	The accumulation And retention of seniority rights while an employee is unable to work because of proven illness or injury shall not entitle the employee to pyramid benefits.
(3)	A medical Doctor's certificate shall constitute sufficient proof of illness or injury. It is clearly understood that A false report of illness may be Cause for discipline up to and including discharge.
(4) (i) If an employee has been absent from work for less than twelve (12) months, they will be eligible to receive benefits under Article 12, 22 and 23 F.
(4) (ii) If an employee has been absent from work for 12 months or longer, they will not be eligible for benefits under Article 12, 22 and 23 F, When en employee has returned to work for a period of 60 calendar days, they will then be eligible to receive benefits under Article 12 f 22 and 23 F.
It is clearly understood:
1* That the returning employee does not: have to repeat his/her probationary period, as per Article 8.
2.	That an employee’s seniority accrues through the period mentioned in 4(i> and 4(ii) above.
3.	If during the sixty day period mentioned above an employee is absent through illness, he/she shall be eligible to receive a sick day(s) as per the provisions Of Article 22.
4.	An employee shall not be eligible to accumulate benefits under Article 12, 22 and 23 F during their absence of more than tvelve months.
(4) (iii) Full time employees hired after December 31st, 1993 shall be entitled to the provisions of Article 12, 22, and 23F on the basis Of one fifty-second (l/52nd) far each week Of active employment. These employees shall only be entitled to the provisions Of Article 21 while actively employed. Company contributions to these benefits shall cease in the f irst month following layoff. Coverage for Group Life Insurance, Dependent Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Medical Benefits, Vision Care, and Dental Care may be continued during the time limits provided for in Article 8E provided the employee pays the full premium .
F.	An employee who is laid off shall retain his/her seniority rights for a period of twelve months and if he/she is ill when called back to work, shall fall VUlder "E* of this Article 8.
G.	An employee Who is promoted out of the bargaining unit shall retain his/her seniority rights for a period of six (6) months, said period to be included in the seniority rating, in the case of demotion, voluntary return to the bargaining unit or abolishment of the position.
H.	The Company agrees to Post seniority lists by seniority group» The lists vill be posted at the conclusion of each fiscal quarter i.e» Wld of January, April, July and October. It is the responsibility of all employees to immediately notify the Company of any errors III the listings. The Union is to receive copies plus a MSter list showing Company seniority.
I.	Casuals shall not attain seniority and shall not be subject to the terms of this Agreement. Summer students shall attain seniority in accordance With provisions of Article 4. Casuals and summer Students shall be used to replace employees who are on vacation, Who are sick or injured, when there are insufficient volunteers for overtime, and to cover leaves of absence. Casuals and SUMdT students shall be covered by the provisions of the Nova Scotia Labour Standards Act.
ij* A new employee, acquiring seniority after the required probationary period, shall&come an unclassified Union worker and shall draw the rate of pay for that designation until such time as that employee has successfully bid Oil a job. There will be a maximum of five (5) SUCh employees unless this number is changed by mutual agreement of the Union and Company.
ARTICLE 9 - PROMOTIONS, LAY-OFFS. REHIRIKG AND JOB OPENINGS!
A.	Vacancies, new positions and promotions within the bargaining unit Shall be filled on the basis of seniority, provided the senior applicant has the ability to qualify to perform the job.
A posting shall not be required if circumstances result in a department having the same number of employees or fewer in number. If a fewer number in a classification is needed, the junior enployee in that classification, within that department, shall be reclassified, upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
B.	(1) Subject to sub-section (2) below, announcements of openings for all jobs vithin the bargaining unit will be Posted on the bulletin boards for a period of five (5) full working days prior to the filling of the job vacancy. Employees desiring consideration in the filling of the job vacancy shall signify their desire by applying in Writing to the appropriate manager. The applicant may request a signed receipt for his/her job bid. All openings shall be awarded within ten (10) working days of the date of removal of the job posting.
With in five (5) working days of the removal of the job posting, the senior applicants, to a B&xiBUn of two (2) persons, shall be allowed a familiarization period of five (5) days each to determine their desire for the job. Their decision is to be made by the end of the fifth day in each case.
Ability to perform the job will be determined by an appropriate familiarization or training period.
B. (2) There shall he one posting of a vacancy resulting from the posting of the original opening. The vacant position which is available at that point will be awarded to the most senior volunteer from that department provided he/she has the ability to qualify to perform the job.
Ci Employees accepted by management on a posted job who fail to qualify within twenty-five (25) working days shall be returned to their former job. The qualifying period may be extended by mutual agreement.
Dt Any successful job bidder shall be paid 901 of the full rate during the training period.
B. (1) Successful bidders shall be placed on their awarded jobs within a period not to exceed eight (8) weeks from the date the position was awarded.
(2) A successful bidder shall not bid on any other posting for a period of six (5) months.
F« Jobs shall not be considered vacant if an employee is absent through sickness, injury or authorized leave. .If Jt is known that an employee is to be abs.ent for more than twenty-five (25)_working days, the staff Within the department .will be canvassed, with the most senior employee applying being assigned to the work provided retraining is not necessary for that person or his/her replacement. Upon completion of the temporary assignment, the employee Shall be returned to his/her former job.
G. Where a senior applicant dOBfl not receive the position applied for, be/she shall be able to request of the appropriate lanager the reason why his/her application was refused.
H» A job posting shall show:
(1)	The classification of the job
(2)	The current days and hours of work
(3)	The salary
(4)	The shift premium (if applicable)
I» Absent employees nay contact thfc Human Resource department or shop steward for information on current job openings.
J* (1) Seven (7) calendar days notice will be given to an employee vho will be laid off from active employment.
(2)	In the event of a lay-off, the Employer agrees that
employees shall be laid-off in the reverse order of their seniority. The employees shall be recalled to work in order of their seniority.
(3)	(a) When a layoff is to occur within a department, the junior parson in the department shall be the parson to receive the lay-off notice, provided the remaining employees have the ability to perform the vorX, A short familiarization period shall be granted.
0>) In the case of a person who is laid-off, that employee Bay exercise his/her seniority by bumping the junior employee in their seniority group, provided he/6he has the ability to perform the work. A short familiarization period shall be granted.
Where necessary in J(3) (a) & (b) read plural for singular.
(4)	In the case of an employee who is laid-off and VbO is the junior person within his/her seniority group, that employee say exercise his/her seniority by bunping the most junior employee in his/her branch, provided he/she has the ability to perform the work. If he/she is already the junior employee in his/her own branch, he/she say exercise his/her seniority by bumping the B08t junior employee Of the employer provided he/she has the ability to perfora the work .
(5)	A laid-off person say not have the right to bump
a trades person unless he/she is so qualified. This means the junior person referred to in 3 and 4 above would have the right to bump the junior non-trades person.
(6)	Employees who have bumped shall be reinstated to their former position if Such becomes available within one year from the date of bumping. All other such bumps shall
likewise be reinstated.
X* (1) Full time employees sh all exercise their seniority rights as per Article 0(J) 3(a) (b) ( 4 in full time positions before displacing a part time merchandiser.
(2) In the event of a layoff, part time merchandisers shall exercise their seniority rights to bump the most junior part time merchandiser and shall not displace full tine
employees.
(3) In the case of a full tine employee vho moves into a part time merchandiser position he/she shall be entitled to only the provisions of the Collective Agreement which pertain to part time merchandisers while working in the part time merchandiser position.
La If an employee’s job is eliminated and he/she is transferred, and if the same job is reopened within a year, that employee shall be given the first opportunity to take the job. The onus is on the employee to make management aware of his/her interest in returning to his/her former job.
K* Any employee Who feels that he/she has been unjustly dealt with in the above matters may have recourse to the grievance procedure set out in Article 6 of this Agreement .
N.	Positions of full	bargaining unit employees on lay-
off will not be filled by casuals or students so as to displace the bargaining unit members. It is clearly understood that this will in no way preclude the management from meeting customer demand.
O.	Unclassifieds or persons on layoff must indicate their desire to work by calling the Company on a daily basis. A predetermined time and phone number to call will be made available to those individuals involved.
Unclassifieds vho refuse three (3) requests for Work within a period of six (6) months, will be subject to dismissal.
ARTICLE 10 - DISCHARGE
A.	In all cases involving the discharge of an employee, the Employer must immediately notify the discharged employee, in writing, of his/her discharge and the reason therefore .
B.	Any discharged employee must be paid, in full, all wages owed to the employee by the Employer, including earned vacation pay, If any, within ten (10) working days from the date of discharge and after any legal liability to the Employer has been paid or satisfied.
C.	A claim, by an employee, that the employee has ken
unjustly discharged from employment shall be submitted in
writing as a grievance and presented to the Manager or the responsible representative, within five (5) working days from date of discharge end such grievance will be accepted at Step 3 Of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 11 - PAID HOLIDAYS
A. New Years toy, Good Friday, the day observed as the Queen's Birthday, C anada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remenbrance Day, Christmas Day, Sowing Day, and Heritage Day if proclaimed a legal holiday, shall be paid holidays, provided nevertheless that if because of paid holidays, three off days OCCUT consecutively, one of such off days as determined by the Employer shall he worked as a regular working day. The Civic Holiday ehall be that day which is defined in a "Letter of Understanding" signed by the Union and Enployer and posted at each location.
a. Any employee absent without good cause satisfactory to the Company on the Working day preceding or the working day
following any of these holidays will not: receive the benefit of the provisions of this Article 11 or be penitted to use the sick days referred to in Article 22, Section For the holiday in question, vhtn an MBployee is required to work on
any of the above mentioned holidays, the employee shall be remunerated at the rate of double time for the Work performed on SUCh paid holiday in addition to the holiday pay.
C, The Company agrees that should a paid holiday OCCUT on an employee's day off, such employee shall be compensated with en additional day’s pay or a day off in lieu of the holiday, the choice between the day’s pay or the day off to be at the discretion of the employee. If a day off is chosen, such day off RUSt be scheduled within four months after the holiday in question unless Mutually agreed otherwise between the Employer and employee for the advantage of the employee.
D« Non-probationary employees who are laid off ten or less working days prior to a holiday shall be paid for the holiday.
E« (1) When a paid holiday OCCUTS on a scheduled day off, and the eMployee is not required to Work, he/she shall be paid:
ore fifth of regular weekly wage if working a 5 day week one quarter of regular weakly wage if working a 4 day week
(2) when a paid holiday occurs on a scheduled work da;j , and the employee is not required to work, he/she shall be paid:
one fifth of regular weekly wage if working a 5 day vsek
one quarter of regular weekly wage if working a 4 day week
F* An employee shall not be entitled to receive holiday Day pursuant to this article for any holiday which falls within the tile period in which the MiplOySS is also qualified to receive Short Ten Disability, Long Tars Disability or Workers Compensat ion Benefits.
MCTICLE 12 - PAID VACATION:
A.	(1) In the event an employee shall have completed less than one U) full year Of continuous employment vith the Employer, year ending May lot in any year, he/she shall be granted vacation or pay according to the provisions of the Labour Standards Code of Nova Scotia.
(2)	The Company agrees to grant vacation entitlement on the anniversary of the employee’s hiring date, however, scheduling of vacations is to remain as of lay 1st of each year.
(3)	The Company Will endeavour to grant employees vacations as requested throughout the year provided, however, that sufficient trained vacation replacements are available 60 as not to prevent the Company from operating in an efficient, effective planner to meet the needs of our customers.
B.	(1) Each employee who has completed one (1) year's continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to two (2) week's vacation with pay.
(2)	Each employee who has conplated five (5) years continuous service vith the Employer Shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay.
(3)	Each employee who has completed ten (10) years continuous service with the Employer shall ha entitled to four («) weeks vacation with pay.
(4)	Each employee who has completed twenty (20) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to five
(5) weeks vacation with pay.
(5)	Bach employee who has completed twenty-eight (28) years continuous Service vith the Employer shall be entitled to Six (6) weeks vacation With pay.
The pay referred to inB{l)to B(5) inclusive, for all fulltime employees, shall be the greater of:
u> the Straight time hourly earninga, at the time of vacation, multiplied by the number of hOUIS in the
employee's wor k week for each Week of vacation entitlement.
SB
(ii) ttfO & one half percent (2.5%) for each week of vacation entitlement, multiplied by the figure Which results from the gross earnings in the previous calendar year being reduced by Christmas bonus.
Ci Any employee entitled to SUCh one, two, three, tour, five or six vesks vacation with pay when is discharged, leaves of his/her own accord, or is laid off due to lack of work prior to taking such vacation shall be compensated at the rats of pay he/she would have received for such vacation.
D* Should the per iod of an employee’s absence resulting frOB sickness or accident correspond with his/hex vacation period., the latter shall be delayed until after said employee returns
to work, such vacation time sh&ll be taken at the Employer's discretion.
E.	The choice of vacation periods of driver-salespersona shall be according to seniority ratings.
F.	Employees shall not be permitted to accumulate vacation periods frOB year to year except when proven illness or injury prevents then frOB using tbeir earned vacation for the year in which they were absent.
Gi Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it shall be understood that the Company will recognize the years of
continuous service that an employee has had with any Company Farmers co-operative Dairy has purchased, and SUCh employee(s) shall be entitled to the full vacation benefits of this Agreement es it the years of service were with Farmers Cooperative Dairy Limited (not applicable to companies purchased after September 1, 1972).
H. (1) The vacation list shall be posted no later than March 15k
All employees shall submit their preferred vacation &tee to the Employer by April 1st and each employee is entitled to use seniority to establish a claim for two weeks of their vacation entitlement. The Employer shall poet the vacation lists no later than April 15th and employees shall have two weeks frOB the posted date to register a protest. Any employee who does not apply for their vacation dates by April 30th shall not have the right to protest and shall accept vacation assigned to them by the Employer,
Having thus established the vacation priorities for two weeks.
employees may then exercise seniority to Claim for other vacation periods which may be available within their department in accordance with provisions of this Contract.
(2) Employees shall only be allowed a maximum of two (2) weeks vacation during the summer vacation period UtlleSS it is mutually agreed between the Employer and the enployee tor the employee to receive extra vasts of vacat ion . Any extra Veeks
Of vacation granted shall not interfere with Other employees' vacation.
should an employee's vacation be cancelled or altered by the Employer, the employee Shall be reimbursed for the nonreturnable portion of vacation contracts and reservations provided satisfactory proof of such amounts are provided by the employee and that SUCh contracts and reservations are through public carriers and bona fide agencies.
Should an employee be called back to work while on his/her scheduled vacation, he/she shall be compensated at two times his/her regular rate of pay for the time worked or granted double time off at a future date at the discretion of the manager.
{3) Notwithstanding anything else herein contained, vacations for ice cre&B) employees shall be subject to the following conditions: A maximum of five employees on vacation at one time and not more than two weeks vacation for any one employee during the period May 1st to October 1st unless agreed to by management.
I.	The Employer agrees that should a paid holiday occur during an nployee's vacation, such employee shall be compensated with an additional days pay or a day off in lieu of the holiday, the choice betveen the days pay or the day off to be at the discretion of the employee. If a day off is chosen, such day off must be scheduled within four months after the holiday in question unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Enployer and the employee.
J.	Once the final vacation Schedule is posted, there can be no changes by either party except by mutual consent other than emergency conditions when the needs of our CUStOlBTS shall be
paramount.
miSM______=____URS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
A. (1) The overall Company VOriCVeeJc is Monday to Sunday inclusive. An individual’s workweek is within those days.
(2)	An individual workweek will be 5 days of 6 hours each or 4 days of 10 hours each.
(3)	The workweek will be posted showing the days to be worked and tie days off.
B. (1) Inside workers working a regular 5 day veek will
work:
a)	Monday to Friday inclusive
b)	8 hours per day
C) when an C&ployaa VOfAfl in excess of 8 hours per day, he/she will be paid at the rate of tins and one half.
(2) Inside workers working the regular 5 day workweek
above who are called in on Saturdays or Sundays vill receive pay as scheduled beloVS
a)	Saturday® - time and one half
b)	Sundays • double tiae
C.	(1) Inside workers working a regular 4 day week will work:
a)	within Monday to Friday inclusive
b)	lo hours per day
C) When an employee works sore than 10 hours par day, he/she will be paid at the rate of time and one half
(2) Inside workers working the regular 4 day workweek
above who are called in to work on their scheduled days off Will be paid:	.
a)	on their scheduled single day off - tine end one half
b)	Saturday - tiae and one half
c)	Sunday * double time
D,	(1) Employees who by the nature of their jobs have a normal workweek other than the regular week in B (1) and C u) above shall have two consecutive days off.
(2) When as a result of a shift change , an employee on a five day schedule must work six or more consecutive days, the 6th consecutive day Of work will be paid at time and one half.
When as a result of a shift change, an employee on a four day schedule must work 5 or more consecutive days, the 5th consecutive day of work will be paid at tiM and one half.
This will Dot apply in cases where the change is made at the request of the employee,
It is mutually agreed that nothing in the foregoing shall imply the guarantee of a forty hour week.
S. Employees working as in D (1) who are called in to work on their scheduled days off will he paid as follows:
1* for the scheduled single day off on a 4 day work schedule • tii, and one half
2.	for the first of the 2 consecutive days off • time and one half
3.	for the second of the 2 consecutive days off - double tile.
F. All classified persons will be given Seven (7) calendar days notice of a change of days off, Unless mutually agreed between the employee and the Employer.
If a Classified person is required to change their days off without the S8V8A (7) calendar days notice, then he or She Will be paid the preaJ.ua rate of tint and One half (1 1/2) or
the applicable rate for off days worked without the appropriate notice, unless mutually agreed Upon between the employee and Employer.
The scheduled days off will not be changed in any week containing a Statutory Holiday.
All classified persons will be given seven (7) calendar days notice of a shift change of BOtS than three (3) hours.
If a classified person is required to change their shift without the required seven (7) days notice, then he or 8tl6 will be paid the premium rate of time and one half (1 1/2) for all hours worked outside their regular shift for the days for which notice was not given, unless mutually agreed upon between the employs. and the Employer.
All classified persons will be given twelve (12) hours notice of a shift change of three (3) hours or lass.
If a classified person Is required to change their shift without the required twelve (12) hours notice, then he or she will be paid the premium rate of time end one half (11/2) for
all hours worked outside their regular shift hours for the day for which notice was not given, Unless mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Employer.
G.	Inside workers working a 4 or 5 day week shall not Work more than 16 continuous hours unless it is by mutual agreement between the employee and his/her supervisor,
H.	(1) when overtime occurs during the regular workday, it shall be assigned to the person performing the work. If the employee wishes to he relieved from the overtime, th® employee must inform his/her Poreperson no less than one hour before the normal end of the shift; and, if a volunteer is available on the premises and is dsemed qualified, that parson will be substituted.for that overtime. If no volunteer is available, the employee will be required to work to a maximum of one hour, no more than twice in any scheduled workweek. When a substitute perform the overtime, it shall not constitute an assignment under this section.
(2)	If additional parsons are required, the overtime will be offered to the senior qualified employee at work.
(3)	If there are still Insufficient volunteers at work; the overtime will be offered to the senior qualified person from the department who is off Bhift.
(4)	If there are still insufficient volunteers, the overtime will be offered to the employees within the seniority group who are qualified to do the work.
(5)	If there are still insufficient qualified volunteers to perform the work, casual workers who are able to perform the work say be used.
(6)	If there are still insufficient qualified volunteers and casual workers, the junior qualified employee at work will be forced to work, such forcing will be on a rotating basis.
(7)	If there are still insufficient qualified volunteers and casuals, and there is no qualified person at work, the junior qualified employee from within the departnent will be forced to work, SUCh forcing will be on a rotating basis.
I.	(1) When overtire is required other than above, that is
on Scheduled days off, volunteers Who are qualified will be called for.
(2)	The overtime will be assigned starting with the senior most qualified volunteer from the departnent*
(3)	If there are insufficient qualified volunteers from vithin the department, the most senior qualified person on the Availability List Will be assigned the overtime.
(4)	Qualified unclassified Union Workers will be
assigned the overtime once the Availability List has bees exhausted* Non-Union casuals will be called When there are insufficient Union volunteers.
(5)	If there are Still insufficient volunteers or casual workers, the junior qualified employee within the department will be forced to work on a rotating bdsii.
J.	Hourly paid VOtkerS and haulers that have regularly scheduled work startingbetveen4:00p«m.andl0:59pa., will
be paid a shift differential of 35 cents per hour for those hours* If their shift has regularly scheduled hours starting between 11:00 p.B. end 4:00 a.B*, the shift differential will be 55 cents pwr hour for those hours.
K< When an employee ii requ ired to report for duty, such
employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of 4 hOUTS pay at regular rate. (Premium pay when applicable.) It is understood that nothing in the provisions of this Agreement
shall guarantee a forty hour Week.
An employee must be able to report within a reasonable period of time.
L. It is clearly understood that nothing in the foregoing shall prevent the Company from assigning a qualified workforce sufficient to meet the needs of the business*
K. The regular VOfKveeK ftp all drivers (Bulk Tank Graders, Driver-Salespersons, Long Haul Drivers and Ice Cream Drivers) via be posted in the Appendix.
N. This Article 13 is not applicable to Bulk Tank Graders and shall not affect the present schedule of work and days Off.
ARTICLE H-RPLES GOVERNING DRIVER SALESFERSOHSl
A. It is nutually agreed that a driver salesperson’s duties shall consist of delivery of dairy products^ and collecting payment for 8AB6> The EBPloyer further agrees to provide adequate cashing-in facilities in order to peniit driver salespersons to spend the laafit possible time in their prescribed settling of accounts.
B* No driver salesperson Stall be expected to clean the outside of his/her truck, but shall be responsible for keeping
the cab of the vehicle Clean and tidy.
c. Upon proper evidence furnished by the enployae* to the
satisfaction of the Employer, allowance shall be made daily for all goods broken, spilled or soured.
D.	Order Bhssts, return and cashing sheets shall be in enough copies to supply both the Employer and the eiployee*
E.	Credit customers shall not be permitted unless authorized by the Employer. Where credit has been so authorized*
responsibility therefore shall rest solely with the Eiployer.
F.	Each driver salesparson shall coaplete his/her daily
return each day before leaving the preaises of the Enployer*
G.	All driver salespersons shall be furnished each week with a full report of all units sold and the total earnings 0f the week vith all deductions, shortages* and overages indicated thereon. The Employer shall have an enployae available during reason able working hours who is able to assist any driver salesperson in finding a shortage.
H.	No driver salesparson shall start to deliver product before 4:15 a.n. unless otherwise determined by the by-laws of the Municipality concerned.
I.	When wholesale customers are on regular routes of the salesperson (institutions, etc.) the Employer will give consideration to any request by the salesperson to include such accounts in his/her daily deliveries.
J.	Driver salespersons Shall be permitted to transfer Btllk from one mute to another and be credited and/or charged vith the sale, providing both salespersons report the transaction on the day it occurs.
K.	The Company will endeavour at all thee to keep any delay time during loading operations to a functional minimum for driver salespersons and also to monitor loading Operations on a continual basiSi
ARTICLE 15 - ROUTE CUTTING!
A . It is agreed that when a route is split into two or BOrfi routes, the driver VhOSS route is split shall have the first choice AS to vbich route he/She Shall work.
B* The route driver whose route is split Shall receive a guaranteed minimum pay to be governed by the four (4) weeks sales average previous to the aforementioned split, for twenty-two weeks following the splitting of the route, with the understanding that the DOttthS of July and August shall not constitute the aforementioned four (4) week period, except where wages are higher during these aonths* Should an employee be absent from his/her route during the tWenty-tWO (22) week period, the balance of the guarantee will be paid; week by week, during the weeks following his/her return to that route.
C. In the event that through increased sales commission, the
driver whose route is split is able to make a paV higher than the minimum guaranteed in Section "B" above, it 15 understood he/she snail be granted such increase.
0* Should the Esployer cut a route for the second time vithin a period of tvelvs (12) months, the salasperson concerned Shall receive the guaranteed minimum outlined in this Article 15, Section "B".
E. For the purpose of Sections A and B of this Article, a route Vill be considered to have been split Vhsni
1* It ham been divided into two or more routes;
2. a portion has Len removed and placed OR another existing route.
The guarantee Shall not apply in the event that;
1.	The route is cut at the request of the employee;
2.	The customer is removed fro* a route at the request a f the customer
3* The customer is moved iron a route, vhen in the
opinion of the Company, SUCh CUStOlST must be removed in order to prevent loss of sales to such customer,
t.	Wbeie n a route is discontinued entirely or split and
portions placed on existing routes, the salesperson whose route is discontinued shall be guaranteed their present earnings on any available route for twenty-two (22) weeks.
ARTICLE IS- WAGES;
A.	It is agreed by both parties hereto that the wages, salaries, end other conditions outlined in the appendices shall be paid during the term of this Agreement, in addition to any other applicable clause.
B.	Barring B&chinery breakdown or Acts of God, the Company agrees to have the pay available by 2'00 p.m. at the latest, on Thursday, If a holiday falls on Thursday, the Company will endeavour to pay on Wednesday. The Employer agrees to pay employees on a weekly basis.
ARTICLE 17 - UNIFORMS!
A.	The Employer agrees to supply yearly, free of charge, to plant employees es follows:	five pairs Of pants and five
shirts for those employees wearing white clothing, three pairs of pants end three shirts for those employees wearing dark clothes. The Employer may substitute coveralls and/or overalls and/or lab coats for whites or dark clothes if required by government inspection agencies as long as the total issue (5 white and 3 dark) remains the same. It is understood that the substitution of one COVSTall or overall or lab coat Will displace one pair of pants plus one shirt or one pair of pants plus one smock. Employees working in the cold room may substitute insulated pants in place of pants or overalls in place Of pantf and shirts. Rubber boots will be supplied at cost, if requested. Packers shall receive pants and tops in lieu of smocks provided they have at least twelve months service. For employees in the stationary engineering and maintenance classifications, substitute the word four where three (3) is mentioned above for dark clothing.
Bulk Tank Graders, Haulers, Milk Salesp ersons end Ice Cream Salespersons shall receive one complete Uniform each year. such uniforn shall consist of two pairs of trousers, three shirts, one tie and one bat, if requested. One windbreaker will he supplied in alternate years. A winter jacket Will be supplied once every three years, the first jacket to be cost shared 50/90 with the employee.
One pair Of overalls or COVtrdllS per year shall be supplied to Bulk Tank Graders end tong B&Ul Drivers, if required.
A winter jacket will be supplied to workers in the Bedford milk cold room end to the one equipment mover in the garage
once every two years, the first jacket will be cost shared 50/50 with the employee.
The Employer agrees to provide four (4) pairs of coveralls to garage workers. Thermal coveralls shall he supplied for garage workers. Such coveralls shall be used only et work.
The Employer agrees to supply yearly, free of charge, to garage employees SB follows:	five pairs of pants end five
shirts for those employees veering dark clothes. such clothing shall be used only et work .
The Middleton employee vill be supplied vith one pair of
thermal coveralls for working on the exterior tank in cold weather. Such coveralls shall be used only at work.
B.	The employees shall maintain themselves and their clothing in a neat, tidy and clean condition at all times. This clothing to be cleaned on company premises. Employees shall receive their clothing allotment in October of each year if possible.
C.	The Company Vill pay $95 per year toward the cost of approved safety footwear appropriate for the type of work being performed. Such footwear must remain on Company property, or be used in the performance Of-''Company business,
ARTICLE 19 - ABSENCES!
A* Union delegates and officers may be absent from work for Union business-iy^-rSf their own expense’ end provided the company has adeguats relief available. The maximum time off shall be twenty (20) VOrking days per Calendar year.
B* Temporary Leave of Absence for Union Business:
Leave of Absence, without pay, for the purpose of attending Union schools, conventions, or conferences may be granted by the company upon written request by the Union subject to the following conditions:
Leave shall only be granted subject to the
&rational requirements of the business and the company’s ability to locate suitable replacements.
2* A maximum of three (3) employees shall be granted leave at any one tllTIS.
3.	A maximum number of days off that will be granted in
a calendar year under this Article will be 100*
4.	If the employee is elected or appointed to a full time position vith the CEP Union, Leave of Absence not to exceed six (6) months shall be granted .
5» Enployees granted SUCh leave shall continue to accumulate seniority except that entitlement for vacation pay, sick days and Christmas Bonus Shall be reduced by one fifty second (1/52) for each Week of absence.
6* Coveraqe under the Security Plan as described in Article 21 may be continued provided the employee or the Union pay the full cost of the coverage. Contribution to the retirement plan may also be continued for a period of up to six months provided the employee continues to pay their portion.
C.	The Employer agrees to grant all employees covered by this Agreement five (5) consecutive days Off, commencing from the day after the death, without lore of pay Upon the death of their father, mother, brother, sister, vita, husband, child, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandparents, grandchild or legal guardian. Should an employee require extra tine off for purposes connected with the bereavement, it is agreed that such time off, up to a maximum of seven days, will be granted without pay, provided that such leave has been requested by the employee and granted by the Company. Time off without toss of pay, to a maximum of one (1) day, will be granted to attend the funeral of a siater-in-lav, brother-in-law and spouse’s grandparents.
The above shall apply to COIBBOfl*lfiV relationships provided that the employee represents him/herself as married, the parties are co-habitant, and a statutory declaration is made to the company.
D.	An employee will not lose seniority as a result of absence from work provided that such leave of absence has been requested in writing and permission has been granted by the Company in writing. Permission for such leave of absence shall not be unreasonably withheld.
E.	An employee who loses time fro# his/her regularly scheduled work as a result of jury service shall have the difference between the pay received for SUCh jury service and his/her straight time earnings he/She would have received if it were not for the jury service paid by the Company, subject to the following:
1. Five days advance notice in writing tO his/her
Foreperson
2* Proof of jury service satisfactory to the Company
ARTICLE 19 - BULLETIN BOARDSl
A. The Employer agrees to permit posting Of any notices Of Union meetings or other, activities on a bulletin board conspicuously placed and provided for that purpose.
B.	Discreet areas will be made on existing bulletin boards for postings only.
ARTICLE 20 - MEDICAL EXAMINATION:
A . Any Bedical examination required by the Employer shall be promptly complied with by all employees, provided, however, that the Employer be required to pay all expenses for such examination.
The Employer reserves the right to select their own medical exaainer or physician, and the Union say, if in its opinion an injustice has been done, cause an employee to be re^eXdllined at the Union’s expense, by its chosen examiner physician.
MTIfimisJKTOTY ELMl
A.	The Eaployer and the employees agree to participate in maintaining a Security Plan involving Group Life Insurance, Dependent Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Disnembetient, Medical Benefits, Vision Care, Long Term Disability Benefits, and Dental Care. The Employer agrees to discuss the benefits and costs of this Plan with the Union from time to time as may be required.
B.	Farmers Co-operative Dairy has established a Pension Plan. Membership in the Plan will be mandatory after two (2)
years of service* Esployeee say apply earlier, on a voluntary basis, to join the Plan.
The Company agrees to have two (2) Union members sit on the Pension Committee. It BUSt be clearly understood that these persons must agree to maintain as confidential, all personal information to which they may have access.
ARTICLE 22 - SICKHESS BENEFITS!
A. In order for any employee to receive a sick day for a reason other than illness, they BUSt make a request, in
advance of 8UCh day, to the departsent supervisor. The request will be granted only where, in the opinion of the department supervisor or appropriate B&nager, the employee’s absence will not cause disruption to operations and a suitable replacement Can be located.
B* (U The Cospany agrees to allow six (6) days (equivalent 48 hours for those on a five day work week or SO hours for those on a 4 day work week) off with pay per yeas is case of sickness. On or about the last Friday in Hay of each year,
the Employer will pay six (6) days pay to any S&ploytt who has not been paid for days Off Bidt Under this Article, Mid the
difference between six (6) days pay and any days drawn Oil account of sicknSSS in the case of all other employees. Th® above-mentioned Sick days Shall not be accumulative from year to year. It is understood that one day’s entitlement is equivalent to one fifth (1/5) or one fourth (1/4) of a basic VeeX® pay up to a MX 1 BUB of 48 or 50 hours as applicable.
(2)	New employees must have completed ten (10)
continuous weeks service in order to qualify for their first sick day, Thereafter they will become eligible for one additional sick day after each ten (10) continuous weeks to a maximum of six (6) sick days per calendar year.
C.	Any employee claiming sickness benefits under this Article must produce a doctor's certificate.
D.	The Employer may investigate any report of sickness by visiting the home of the employee reported sick, or by any other Beans. Any such visit may be made by any official of the Employer appointed for the purpose.
E.	It is understood and agreed between the Employer and the Union that a false report of sickness by any employ®® shall be grounds for discipline, up to and including disuiteeal of the employee, and any employee SO disciplined shall also forfeit to the Employer any amount of sickness benefits otherwise payable to him/her.
F» Any employee who leaves the employ of the Employer of his/her own accord, or is diecharged and h&8 r®C®lv®d sickness pay under this Article in excess of the amount entitled, shall pay the Employer the amount of such excess, or the Employer may deduct the amount of such excess from any amount OV®d to the employee by the Employer, at the time th® employee leaves or is discharged.
ARTICLE 23 - OmBAL:
A.	Any classified employee presently receiving more than the minimum wages now existing under the terms of this Agreement will not suffer a decrease through the signing of this Agreement, and any classified employee enjoying working conditions more favourable than those stipulated herein Shall continue to enjoy same.
B.	Any Classified employee who is temporarily transferred
from his/her regular job to another job with a higher rate shall be paid the higher rate for the day worked on the higher rated job, provided the tine worked is four hours or more per shift on the higher rated job. HOV®V®T, ait employee who is temporarily transferred from his/her regular job to another job with a lower rate shall continue to receive his/her
regular rate for all the tine worked on 5UCh other job if this is done for management convenience.
C.	The Union maintains the privilege to negotiate with the Employer wage rates covering new types of work not established by this Agreement. In such cases, the rates agreed Upon shall be effective. _as._of the date the said work goes into effect, should the parties be unable to agree as tO the rate to be applied to that job classification, the Union shall have recourse to the Grievance Procedure at the second step.
D.	Employees shall not be permitted to engage in any other major occupation or business during the course of their employment if it interferes with their employment with Farmers Dairy;
E.	The Employer agrees to classify all employees in the bargaining unit and supply a copy of same to the Union.
F.	All employees in the bargaining unit shall receive ah extra 1/12 of a weeks pay (guaranteed earnings plus full commissions where it applies), for each full continuous month of service terminating Deceater 31st of each year, same to be given to the employee on December lath or the nearest banking day, provided that the employee has not resigned or bean discharged prior to December 31st.
C. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article 23, the Employer and the employees agree that Garage workers are to
supply their own tools subject to the following exceptions:
The company agrees to cost share on the purchase of tools to a maximum cost of $400* Upon presentation of purchase receipts equal to half this amount on or before April 15th, the Company Vill reimburse’ the tool costs to a maximum of $270.
Ii. A supper break is to be optional for any employee working one hour or more overtime, such option to be exercised by a production unit as a whole after a vote by a show Of hands of the employees in the production unit and the majority of those voting shall carry the decision.
I.	The Employer agrees to provide adequate lunchroom facilities for all employees who are employed during a meal period. In particular, the Employer agrees to provide sufficient tables and chairs and an adequate eating area for employees working through the evening Mai and between the hours of 4l00 p.tt. and 0:00 A*B.
J,	If an employee makes a written request to the Bnploysr, all records and correspondence in that eaploy«#'s file shall be made available for that employee to see.
The coapany agrees that letters Of discipline will be null and void after two (2) years provided:
a)	there is no repeat of the matter disciplined for
b)	no violence
C) no illegal acts that pertain to Company personnel and/or property
Letters of discipline that involve alcohol or drugs will be null and void after three years provided there is no repeat of the natter disciplined for .
K.	Any employee who is required to appear as a witness by the Company, or its agents acting on the Company's behalf, shall not suffer a loss of regular wages as a result.
L.	Lead hands will be appointed from time to time at the discretion of management to assist in the maintenance of the proper flow of work.
Mi If an employee is injured at work and requires medical attention, and the attending physician advises that he/she may not return to work that day, the Company will pay his/her wages for the remainder of the regular work day.
ARTICLE 24 - SAFETY?
A.	It is the desire of the Company and the Union to maintain high standards Of safety in order to continue to eliminate, insofar as possible, industrial accidents and illness. There is hereby established a safety committee consisting of not less than four (4) members, two of whom shall be management employees and tvo of whoa Shall be Union employees.
The Committee will determine their own terms of reference,
frequency of meetings and inspection tours, and will post the terms of reference as agreed to between Union and Management.
B.	All reports and recommendations and a Witten statement of the action taken thereon shall be kept by the safety committee as a permanent record and Shall at all times be available to any member of the committee* A written report of Safety Committee Meetings if to be posted*
C* Where an employee alleges that a XAChini or equipment is unsafe to operate, the employee may ask for an immediate determination of thie by his/her Foreperson and be entitled to have a decision within two (2) hours, if the matter is not settled to the employee's satisfaction, the employee shall refer it to the Safety Committee for determination,
ARTICLE 25 - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE:
Each full time employee who ceases to be a full tins employee of the company by reason of the permanent closing1 of a department, by the introduction of labour saving equipment, 0r
a permanent layoff for a reduction in the work force, shall be entitled to a severance allowance as follows:
Less than 2 years service
2-5 yearn
5-10 years
10 - 15 years
15 “ 20 years
20 - 25 years
25 years and over of service
3 weeks 5 weeks 7 weeks 11 weeks 11 weeks 15 weeks 19 weeks
Technological change means the introduction of equipment different in nature from that previously Utilized that results in a reduction in manpower requirements. Should such technological change occur, a Joint Committee will be reconstructed to deal with:
1.	Retraining
2.	Transfers on a voluntary basis to vacant positions
with the Company
3.	Any other such remedies as may be appropriate
The Committee will be advisory in nature and not executive.
The Company will endeavour to make every effort to avoid layoffs.
Employees who do not exercise their seniority rights when laid off as par Article 9{J) nay elect to receive a Severance
allowance as per the article either at the tine of the layoff or shall receive it after their recall rights under 8 (P) have expired.
Should the laid off employee be the junior employee with no bumping rights under Article 9 W , they shall be entitled to receive a severance allowance after their recall rights under 8 (F) have expired.
Upon receiving the severance, the employee Shall terminate their seniority and suploymant relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement.
ARTICLE
DURATION OP AGREEMENT:
A. —This Agreement shall be in full force and	*rnm
the 13th day of FflBrUAry, 1194 to o Ob*t 27. 998* and shall hfftSBaticatiy ftaw Hi IJ11 UUU11 anniversary^^, unless,
>
within the period of two ttonths prior to October 27, 1996 or any subsequent October 27th thereafter one of the parties hereto BBtifiBS the other, in writing, of its intentions to revise, wend or conclude a new Collective Agreement*
B. Wages shall be in full force and effect from the 13th of
February to October 27th, 1996.
The wages shall thereafter autoaatically renew itself on each anniversary date unless, within the period of two months prior to October 27th, 1996 or any subsequent October 27th
thereafter one of the parties hereto notifies the other, in writing, of its intention to revise, emend, or conclude a new wages agreement.
C> The Company and Union agree that all prior Letters of Understanding are void upon signing of this Collective Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE HERETO SIGNED:
fflGBS APPBHDIX "A" - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE
METRO WHOLESALE ROPTBS
Commission $ .02 1/2 per equivalent litre on all sales Bonus	.01 per equivalent litre on all sales
above 7500 litres when 8500 litre sales reached
Routes averaging in 6XC68S of 8500
equivalent litres over a fiscal SOnth to receive bonus on all litres over 7500 per week. All bonuses to be Raid monthly by cheque.
Driving Allowance
Op to - 9 ,.999 litres
10.000	- 12,999 litres
13.000	- Op litres
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
U&.W3A OCT.
$ 406.56	$ 415.36
396.56	405.36
366.56	395.36
EFFECTIVE OCT.29/95 $ 426.67
416.67
406.67
Drivingallowance is calculated by averaging weekly sales of prior fiscal month.
Guaranteed Earnings
Holiday Pay
If not required to work:
Up to 9, 999 litres
10.000	- 11,499 litres
11.500	- 12,499 litres
12.500	and over
Ii required to work:
Up to 9,999 litres
10.000	- 11,499 litres
11.500	- 12,499 litres
12.500	and over
$ 595.36	$ 606.67
S 70.00	$ 70.00
75.00	75.00
80.00	80.00
95.00	95.00
$ 333.83	$ 337.75
353.75	357.57
363.75	367.57
383.68	387.41
$	586.56
70.00
75.00
80.00 95.00
$ 330.78
350.78
360.78
380.78
The regular work VSeX for driVSr salsspsopls shall consist of either five (5) days or four (4) days per week. Driver salespeople who work five days per week My be required to work Saturdays as regular working days and have another day as
their day off in addition to Sunday.
Driver salespeople vho work four days per week, shall work three days on a Scheduled route, the fourth day to be worked
as assigned. The delivery schedules will fall within Monday to Saturday inclusively.
f-H*m BOOTES	EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE
Fra, 13/94 OCT.. 30/94 OCT. 29/9.5
commission $	,02 p e r equivalent case (equiv. litres
divided by 16)
Driving Allowance	$ 560.56	$ 568.97	$ 579.78
Days of work - 5 per week
The regular VOtKWeeX for chain Store Driver Salespeople shall consist of five days per week. The delivery schedules will fall within Monday to Saturday inclusively.
DEFINITION1 OF AR EQUIVALENT LITRE - 1 litre of product sold
by fluid measure -l kilogram of product sold by weight
METRO SPARE DRIVERS
Rats of Pay	$586.56	$595.36	$606.67
The regular workweek for spare drivers will normally consist of five days. When a spare Driver is covering a four day route for a full veekr his regular VOlk for that weak shall consist of four days.
If a spare driver is reMOVtd frOJK his/her scheduled duties after starting such for that day end is assigned a regular
route, he/She will be paid tine and one half for all hOUTS worked in excess of the hours required to conplete the regular route that hft/she is assigned on that day.
Additional Lump Sun (Daily)
1, chain Route	$
2.	wholesale Route
up to 10,999 L $
11.000	- 11,999
12.000	- 12,999
13.000	and over
3« Ice Cream Route	$
SPECIAL DELIVERY DRIVERS fMILK AHD_ICS_ CRBAMLL___________
Rate of Pay	$ 566,80	$ 575.30	$ 586.23
The workweek for special delivery drivers shall be forty (40) hours perfoned in five (5) days of eight (8) hours each and they shall receive two consecutive days off, oni of which will be Sunday.
10.00 $ 10.00 $ 10.00
26.00	26.00	26.00
33.00	33.00	33.00
40.00	40.00	40.00
45.00	45.00	45.00
10.00	10.00	10.00
Overtime work* of a nature generally conceded to be that required, of the special, delivery drivers, will first be
assigned by seniority to this group of employees. Should a volunteer from this group not be available, the work will go to the most senior volunteer in the Metro wholesale group of drivers.
DRIVERS HELPERS
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
FEB* 13794	OCT.30/94	QCTt £
Rate of Pay
$ 456.56	$ 463*41	$ 472.21
RTmi, WHOLESALE ROUTES
Commission $.01 per unit wholesale .02 per unit retail
Driving Allowance	$ 561.60	$ 570.02	$ 580.85
DEFINITION OF A UNIT - 1 litre or its equivalent of all fluid products except cream and blend ■ *88 of a unit
-	250 mL Blend “ .44 of a unit
-	250 all Whipping . • 88 of a unit
•	500 mL Blend * .88 of a unit
-	500 mi let - l.io
-	500 mL Whipping * 1.76
*	L pound of spread or margarine
-	500 gm yogourt = 1.654 units
-	1 - 4 litre hag of spring Water ■ 1.75 units
-	Juice equivalents as provided to drivers
RURAL SPAKE DRIVERS $ 577.72	$ 586.39	$ 597.53
mSSS APPENDIX »B» - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE
METRO ICE CREM
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
FEB,.H/?4	p.qjaisi	OCT. 29/95
Driving Allovanoft	$ 570.95	$ 579.52	$ 590.54
Cosnissioa $ .01 par equivalent litre
METRO ICE CREAM CHAIN ROUTE
Driving Allowance	$ 440.96	$ 447.57	$ 456.08
Conaission $ .01 per equivalent litre
RDRAL ICE M	$ 577.20	$ 585.86	$ 596.99
Plus in each year 1% (one per Cent) of all sales to regular customers made by driver salespeople including cash and credit sales.
RURAL SEASONAL ICE CREAM
Driving Allowance	$ 555.88	$ 564.22	$ 574.94
Plus in each year It (one per cent) of all sales to regular customers Hade by driver salespeople including cash aitd credit sales.
ICE CREAM SPARK DRIVERS
Rate of Pay	$ 577.72	9 586.39	$ 597.53
W*SBS APPENDIX -C* - DAIRY DIYISIOM/ICB CREAM DIVISIOH
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
m.-.. UX9A	0CT.3.fl/,gA	OCT.29/95
PROCESSOR
ASEPTIC PROCESSOR
FLOATER OPERATOR (must be able to
perform 901 of all duties within the Department)
SKIPPER OPERATOR [holding valid Forklift License)
MACHINE OPERATOR
SANITATION OPERATOR
LABOURER
QUALITYCONTROL
STOCKROOM
PACKAGER
UNCLASSIFIED
PER HR . $ 15.51
14.94
14.94
14.42 14.55
14.42
14.42
14.16
14.16 13.73 13.59
14.16
9 15.74	$ 16.04
15.16	15.45
15.16	15.45
14.64	14.91
14.77	15.05
14.64	14.91
14.64	14.91
14.37	14.65
14.37	14.63
13.94	14.20
13.79	14.06
14.37	14.65
*PPRHPIX "B» - MXIHTEHAHCE CLASSIFICmOK
INDUSTRIAL MECHANICS (I.H.) CLASSIFICATIONS
Emcim	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
m. 13/94	BCTuM/tA	OCI,a»/»
I.H. Entry Level I.M. Level 1 l.H. Level 2 I.H. Level 3 I.M. Level 4 I.H. Level 5 I.M. Level 6 I.M. Level 7 I.M. Level 8 I.M. Grandfatherad
$ 14.66 14.92 15.18
16.35 17.78 18.30 18.70 19.07 19.47
16.35
14.88 $ 15.16 15.14 15.43 15.41 15.70
16.60	16.91 18.05 18.39 18.57 18.93 18.98 19.34 19.36 19.72 19.76 20.14
16.60	16.91
ELECTRICIAN CLASSIFICATIONS
Electrician Level L Electrician Level 2 Electrician Level 3 Electrician Level 4
$ 18.17	18.44
18.70	18.98
19.07	19.36
19.47	19.76
18.79
19.34
19.72
20.14
VELDER CLASSIFICATIONS
Welder Level 1 Welder Level 2 Welder Level 3
17.26
17.65
18.04
17.52
17.91
18.31
17.85
18.26
18.66
DEFINITIONS OF NAINTENANCI CLASSIFICATIONS
IMDOSTHIAl MECHANIC HJLA OOrayiCIBfflfl
(a) I.M. Entry Ltvtl
(b) I.M. Level 1
- Graduate of N«S. Vocational School or other institution or experience recognized by the company; and
Qualified to enter
N*5» Dept, of Labour Industrial Mechailicfl
Apprentice PTOgThB
•• Successful completion of first year of N»S. Dept, of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and
-	2000 hoar* worked m
the Industrial Mechanics trade
(c)	I.M. level 2	- Successful completion
of second year of N.S.
Dept, of Labour Industrial Mechanic* Apprentice Progran; and
-	4000 hours worked in
the Industrial Mechanic* trade
(d)	I.M. lerel 3	- Successful coapletion
of third year of M.S. Dept, of Labour Industrial Mechanic* Apprentice Program; and
• 6000 hours worked in the Industrial Mech&flic8
trade
(e) I.M. Level 4	- Successful completion
of fourth year M*S*
Dept, of Labour Industrial Mechanics
Apprentice Progras; and
• 8000 hours worked in
the Industrial Mechanics
trade
<f) I.M. Level*	• Successful completion
of fourth year H. S.
Dept, of Labour
Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked m the Industrial Machanics trade/ and further upon completion of 72 V0nth8f
Farcers Inplant Experience
(F.I.E.) In any Industrial Mechanic, classification sc upon coapletion of 24 aonths 7*1.2* in the Level 4 Industrial Mechanic classification
(g) I.M. Level 6	- Successful eoapletion
of fourth year M.S.
Dspt. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Prograa; and 8000 hours worked in Industrial Mechanics trade; and further upon
completion of 96 months F.I.E. in any Industrial
Mechanics classification QL upon completion of 24 months F.Z*B* in the
Industrial Mechanics Level 5 classification
(h)	!• K. Level 7	- Successful completion
of fourth year H.S.
D0Dt, Of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours Worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade; and further upon completion of 120 months 7.I*E*
in any Industrial Mechanics classification or upon completion of 36 months F.I.E.inthe Industrial Mechanics Level 6 classification
(i)	I.M. Level 8	• Successful completion of
fourth year M.S. Dept, of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade; and further upon completion of 144 months F«X»E. in any Industrial Mechanics classification fit upon completion of 36 nonths F.I.E. in the Industrial Mechanics Levsl 7 classification
(j) I-K. Grandfathered - Keith Ganno Individuals	Vic Power
Bill might
HiEcraicm	OTMJTICMima
(a) Electrician Level 1 * Successful completion of fourth year H.S.
Dept, o f labour Industrial Electrician Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Electrical trade
(b) BWOtriclaft Level 2 • Successful completion of fourth year N.S,
Dept, or Labour Industrial Electrician
Apprentice Program; and
8000 hours worked in thu Industrial Electrical trade; end further upon cospletion of 36 souths Farmers Inplant Experience (F.I.E.) in the Electrician
Level 1 classification
(c)	Bleetrioia* Level 3 • Successful completion
of fourth year N.S.
Dept. Of Labour Industrial Electrici an Apprentice ProCfTSB/ and
8000 hours vorJced i n the Industrial Blsctrical
trade; and further upon completion of 36lOnthl F.I.E. in the Sloctrician Level 2 classification
(d)	Eleetzislan Level 4 - Successful ccepletion
of fourth year N.S.
Dept. Of Labour Industrial Electrician
Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the
Industrial Blsctrical trade ; and further upon completion of 48 months F.I.E. in the
Electrician LOVSl 3 classification
WELDER	{roMiMCMIMt
(a) loldsr Level l - 8000 hours worked in the Welding trade and SUSt he able to pars Conpany and Government inspections (may include x-ray) for quality of
sanitary stainless
steel welds
(b)	wilder Level 2	- upon completion o f 24 months
Farmers Inplant	Experience
(P.I.B.)
in the Welder Level 1 classification
(c)	Wilder Level 2	• upon completion of 36
months P.I.E, In tha Welder Level 2 classification
14 An employee in any MaintSlUttCS classification Shall be immediately rsclasslfisd upon successful completion of tbs requirements listed in tbs classification schedule.
2,	(a) The following COUTSSS will be offered to
individuals m Industrial Mechanics or Power and Refrigeration Technician classificationsi
Basic Stick Welding Basic Electronics
Hydraulics Pneumatics Forklift Mechanics
Tetra Pak TBA 9, Mechanic Level 1 Course Tetra Pak P.L.E., Mechanic Course Tetra Rex Mechanic course Machinist
Plus designated future courses as requirements
dictate
(b)	All employees in Industrial Mechanics and Power and Refrigeration Techniciansclassifications,With the
exception of those employees in the I#M. Grandfathered classification shall be required to complete three (3) Of ths above mentioned COUTSeS as determined by the employer.
Any courses in excess of the three (3) mandatory courses Will be Offered On a voluntary basis, With seniority, plant requirements, rotation, degree of relevance being used to determine who shall attend courses.
(c)	All employees in Electrician classifications will
be required to complete both the Alien Bradley P.L.C. train Level 1 and Square D P.L.C. training Level 1 course within two years from pate of hire .
It shall he the responsibility of the employer to schedule these COUTSSW.
(«) All employees in Electrician classifications will receive an extra $3.75 per week per course/block completed for the following courses!
, Joumeynanlnstrumentation(max.one employee)
. Journeyman Electronic R e p a i r {max. two employees)
This payment will' not be considered as part of the employees base rate, ra;ther it will be paid as a
■Imp sua paysent*.
(e) The eaployer shall continue to cover the registration costs for all aandatory courses and shall continue to cover the costs of airfare,
lodging and living expenses (SB per COapany policy) for Tatra Tsk and Square D P.l.C. courses given off-site.
3. Eaployees m Industrial Mechanic classifications (up to a aaxiaua of two) my by the nature Of their jobs, be
required to work a normal Work week other then the regular work week described in Article 13 B or C(l) end in this case, shall have two consecutive days off, one of vvh ich shall be Saturday or Sunday.
MMBS APPENDIX "E" - CARACB
per hr.
effective	effective	effective
mi H/M CCT.M/M	oct.2»/m
JOURNEYMAN BUS AND	$	17.27
transport (Heavy Duty
With 8 Years Experience)
JOURNEYMAN MECHANIC	$	16.16
(Includes Reefer)
JOURNEYMAN BODYMAN	$	16.18
$	17.53	$	17.86
16.40	16.71
16.40	16.71
BODYANDFENDER	$ 15.20	15.43	15.72
(No Papers)
MECHANIC APPRENTICE
1st six months 508 $ 8.36 2nd six months 558 $ 9.19 3rd six months 608 $ 10.03 4th six months 658 $ 10.86 5th six months 708 $ 11.70 6th six months 758 $ 12.54 7th six months 808 $ 13.37 8th six months 908 $ 15.04
8.49
9.33
10.18
11.02
11.88
12.73
13.57
15.27
8.65
9.51
10.37
11.23
12.10
12.97
13.83
15.56
TRUCK SERVICE
$ 14.16	14.37	14.65
EQUIPMENT MOVER
$ 13.33	13.53	13.79
It is understood that attainment of Journeyman’s papers will automatically create a reclassification. Journeymen must be able to qualify under flat rate.
It is understood that Journeymen will continue to function as they now do, and that any classification My be required to perform work m any other classification where qualified.
When a garage employee is called in to work, such employee Shall be guaranteed a minimus of four (4) hours pay at regular rate, or premiua rate if applicable. At the time of the call, the employee shall be advised of the nature and extent of the work required and on estimate of completion time. Should this employee report to work and find that there is additional work, other than that related in the initial call, the
employee lay elect to call his superior and request that another employee be called for this additional work. In this Case, the first employee shall be paid only for the tint actually worked and the second employee is entitled to the four (4) hour call-in pay. It is understood that a second employee must be available before the first can be released from the requirement to Complete the additional work.
WWH5Jff?8HPBL JCEPAEOH
CLASSIFICATION
vncim	imenw	miciiii
n»t. »/,M 0CtiJ?/>l	2SL21111
Machine Operator Plant Labourer Maintenance (1) Maintenance (I)
Electrician Stationary Engineer
Shipper Operator
pm hr,
$ U.50 $	14.IS
$ 14.42 $	14.IS
$ 15.02 $ 14.S3 $ 14.50
S 14.72
14.37
14.64
14.37 15.25 14.85 14.72
$	15.00
14.65 14.91
14.65 15.53 15.13
15.00
WMB APPENDIX "G‘ - BULK TAMK DRIVERS
1.	The regular workweek of a Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operator shall consist Of picking up lilk from farm on an assigned route or router for periods averaging five days per week throughout the year. Such routes to be agreed upon by the Company and the Onion representative upon origination and before subsequent adjustments are made.
2.	The present system of alternating days of work shall continue during the ten of the Collective Agreement.
3.	The Coepany will attempt to schedule runs to average 40 hours per week, Where this is not practical, overtime will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week.
4.	If a Bulk Tank Grader is required to VOrX on a scheduled rest day, he will be paid as follows for the actual hours worked:
5 day work schedule ■ first day at time and one half
-	second day at double time if first day off worked
4 day work schedule * first day at time and one half • second day at tine and one half
-	third day at double time if first and second day off worked
5.	Any Sulk Pick-up Truck Operator required to perform work other than his regular workweek shall be reimbursed for expenses for meals and lodgings incurred as a result of tht requirements of this extra work.
6.	Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operators will forfeit the privilege Of taking trucks hOVS at night at the discretion of the Company.
7.	Any Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operator who shall work Sunday, and that day being one of their regular five (5) days of work, shall be paid an extra one tenth (1/10) of their regular weekly pay for the day in question.
BULK TANK GRADER
B77ECTXV8	OTBCTZVl	E7HCTI71
MB. 13/94	OCT.30/14	QgX.a?,/»
Bulk Tank Grader Tractor-hailer
582.40	$ 591.14	$ €02.37
Bulk Tank Grader
$ 579.80	$ 588.50	$ 599.68
WAGES XPPBTOIX "H« - HAULERS
nncmi anetm
ra. 13/u assMiu
smcrni
assxitm
PER HOUR
HAULERS
(Tractor-Trailer)	$ 14.56	$	14.78	$ is,06
HAULERS	$ -U.32	14.53	14.B1
(Straight Truck)
mm
MODIFIED LONG HAUL	5 655. JO $ 665,03	$ 677.66
Plus Coanission of 2$ per equivalent case for Chainstore deliveries
Full time Merchandisers - $ 13.52/hr. $ 13.72	$ 13.98
1.	The regular work week for a full time merchandiser shall be 40 hours per week.
2.	Full tine Merchandisers shall receive time and one half (1 1/2) for work performed in excess of 40 hours in one veeX*
3.	The following uniform policy shall apply to Full time Merchandisers:
-	two pairs of pants
-	two g o 1 f shirts
• one sweat shirt
4.	A driving allowance of 230 per kilomstrs shall be paid to merchandisers for the distance required to be driven between stores.
5.	A maximum of two eiployees shall bS granted vacation at any one tine and no vacation shall be g-ranted during the period of December lflt to January 1st.
6.	Full time Merchandisers shall be exempt from Article 13 and 17.
Apparent J - wmeHxmTsmg - PART TIME
UTKTITB imenyi smctm
ro.. urn mMH esusm
Part time Merchandiser*-$7.80 per hr $	7.92	$	8.07
1. Part time Merchandisers shall work 24 or leas hours averaged over a d Veak_period. This _ provision shall not apply-during the period of Deceiber "let - January 10th and Kay 15th - September 15th, or When they are replacing an employes vho is on vacation , flick or injured; or on leave of absence when their hours may exceed the 24 hour
limit
2* ttie seniority for flflCh part time merchandiser shall be established after a probationary period of 200 working hours and shall he calculated for days worked With the company.
3.	Part tine merchandisers shall be eligible for statutory
holiday pay for the number of hours they would have VOrked if such holiday ifl part of their regular schedule, provided they report for work their scheduled day before and their scheduled day after .
Part time merchandisers shall be paid at a rate of time and one half their regular rate of all hours worked on a holiday.
4.	Vacation pay for part time merchandisers will be 48 of their previous ye&rfl earnings (Hay-Hay).
Vacation pay
will be paid each May»
5.	Christmas bonus will be paid to part the merchandisers in the amount of $100.00.
6* The following uniform policy shall apply to pa* time
merchandisers:
•	one pair of pant*
- tVO golf shirts
•	one want shirt
7* A driving allOV&nca of 23d par kilometre shall be paid to merchandisers for the distance required to be driven bfltveen storer..
Part time merchandisers shall be exempt from Article 8, U, 12, 13, 17, 18, 21, 22 a n d 23 P.
In the case of a part tin* merchandiser who moves into a full time position, he/she shall be entitled to the I'toivisjo.11s of the Collective Agreement Which apply to full tins eaployeea. ’
Any full time employee who exercieee his/her seniority rights as per Article 9 (ll) of the Collective Agreement by bumping1 into a part tl*S Merchandiser position shall not lose entitleaent to the provisions of Article 21 (a) for a period Of 4 months frOB the day they become a part time merchandiser.
amBPiK.riff - boimumh
glA8?X?lSmQH
munaxiw	rate of pay
Stationary tiiglmi level l
Stationary Engineer level 2
ana imn am
mum octii/m sa«
4tb class Stationery $ IMS ♦ u>,g
Engineer - Boiler ticket
art 2nd Claes Stationary
Engineer - Rsfrigeratloa
ticket
3rd Claes stationary $ u.25 $ 11.52 S is,a
Engineer - Boiler ticket
and let class Stationary
Engineer - Refrigeration
ticket
Stationary Engineer	appropriate
level l claislflca-	rate pine
tiro linista	50$ per hr.
Jocrneyun Industrial appropriate rate Hechanici ticket pins aa per Industrial 4th Claes Stationary	Hactanica
Engineer - Bailer ticket classification and 2nd Claes Stationary !.I,E. schedule Engineer - Refrigeration (appendix D) ticket	plus $20.00 lujp
suapayunt.
l. An eiployae i any stationary Engineering classification shall be imsdiataly reclassified upon successful completion of t h e rsquireaents listed lathe classification schedule:.
It is understood that automatic ra-clawification doas
not apply for tha fCWtr and Refrigeration Technician position unless a Vacancy exists.
2 e	Baployeas in stationary StiglnfiftT classifications Who are
raquired to work twelve (12) continuous hour shifts shall work a 3 on/3 off shift format, alternating vlth a day end night rotation. Tha regular hours of VOrk for the twelve (12) hour continuous shift schedule shall be spread OVtt six («) consecutive weeks, that is three (3) weeks of thirty sir (35) hours and three (3) veeka of forty eight (48) hours'.
Stationary Engineer -Spare
Pover and Refrig*
erationTechnician
3d The wor k VMk for all employees covered by the classifications ill this appendix starts at 0600 hours Sunday and ends the following Sunday at 0600 hours.
4*	(a) Any work perforBOd in excess of regular scheduled
hours of work shell constitute overtime and shall be paid at one and one-half times the employee’s straight time classified rate.
(b) Employees in Stationary Engineer classifications
who are required to Work on their scheduled days off Shall be paid
(i)	at one and one ‘half tines the employees
straight tine classified rate for all hours worked on their first and second scheduled days off
(ii)	at two times the employee’s straight time classified rate for all hours worked on their third scheduled day off
5.	Any employee(e) whose schedule calls for his/her to work on a holiday as defined in Article 11 A, shall be the person who Works that holiday and shall be paid as per Article 11.
When a paid holiday occurs on an employees scheduled day off and the employee is not required to Work, he/she shall be paid the applicable hours that are called for in their schedule.
6.	For the purpose of determining the sickness benefits as described in Article 22, it is understood that those employees working the twelve (12) continuous hour shifts shall be eligible for a BaxinUl of 50 hours under this entitlenent.
7.	Employees covered by the classif ications in this appendix shall be eligible to receive Shift differential as described in Article 13 J.
8.	For the purpose of Article 12 8(5) (1) and Article 23 F,
the number of hours in an employee’s work week shall be assumed to be forty (40).
9.	Employees covered by the Classifications in this appendix shall be exempt from Article 11 E end Article 13 unless otherwise specified.
10.	Employees will be paid for hours actually worked in each
workweek (ie. 36 or 48 straight tine hours).
APPEHDrX »L« - UnOBBTOB DXm
Dnctrra wncnvi Dnam
maim pa-am pcti^m
PAYS4TE
M» HOW $ 14.06
$ 14.27
$14.54
1) Lunenburg Dairy employees shall be eligible for statutory holiday pay for the number of hour* they Would have worked if • uch holiday is part of their regular schedule.
2) Lunenburg Dairy •aployees shall not be entitled to vacation entitlement according to the provisions of Article 12 (B) until the vacation year beginning nay, 1994.
Lunenburg Dairy employees shall be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) tines their regular rate for all hours worked in any day that ftTO in excess of two (2) hours beyond their normal work hours for the day or in exc98$ of forty (40) hours per week.
4) Lunenburg Dairy employees shall be exempt from Article 11E, 13, 14, 15 fc 17 (A) fc (B),
LETTER 07 UHDSRSTUmniS
This letter will confirm our understanding reached at negotiations with respect tO "split shifts".
The present use of split 8hift0 shall remain in practice at the distribution branches. It lfl not the intent of the company to extend this practice to Bedford operations.
FOR THE COMPANY;
FOR THE UNION:
LETTER OP USDSRSmroXSG
This will confirm our agreement reached at negotiations regarding the distribution of work on holidays recognized in
Article 11.
Work which occurs on these holidays should be offered to the senior qualified employee in the department. Should the senior employee in the department not wish to work/ the work Will be offered to the next senior qualified employee and so on. Should additional employees be required the work will be offered by seniority to qualified employees within the seniority group. Should additional employees be required the work will be offered by seniority to qualified employees within the branch. Should no qualified employee wish to work the holiday and no suitable student or Casual replacement Can be found, the junior qualified employee will be forced to work. Forcing employees to work will be done on a rotating basis, for example, the Junior employee forced to work on one holiday will not be forced to work the next.
The exception to this procedure will be the Bulk Tank Hauling Department who will continue to follow their current procedures for assigning work on holidays.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
DATE
LETTER QT UKDCR6TEEDXK8
An employee who returns to work after an absence due tO illness or injury within the time limits laid out in Article B(E) (1) shell return to his/her sane job provided he/she is able to perform the work. An employee who returns after these time Halts have expired, or within the time Halts but is unable to perform their former job, will displace a junior employee in his/her former department providing they can perform the required vork satisfactorily. Should he/she not be able to perfora the work of a junior eiployee m their foraer department, they will displace a junior eaployee in their seniority group, providing they Can perform the required work satisfactorily. Should he/she not be able to perform the work of the junior employee in their Seniority group, they will displace a junior employee in the branch , providing they can psrfor* the required work satisfactorily. In either Case, the employee who is displaced nay exercise his/her seniority rights as par Article 9 (J) of the Collective Agreement .
In the event that an employee is unable to perform any of the positloneas described above, management end the union shall meet to discuss what alternative options night be available to the employee.
An employee’s eligibility to perform the required work satisfactorily shall be determined by:
-	the employee obtaining a physician’s signature on a document provided by management and the union indicating that the employee ie physically able to perform all the duties required for the position.
-	A short familiarization period.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
LITTER OF UXDSUTRHDXVa
This Vill confirm our agreement reached at negotiations. The employees listed below will have their currant paid rate maintained, adjusted for general wage increases, for the
period of this Collective Agreement from December 3, 1991 provided that:
(a]	If 8By of the employees should be the successful bidder
on a job posting, be/be shall receive the wages for that position as per the classification in the Collective Agreement.
(b)	If any of the employees exercise his/her seniority rights as per Article 9 J of the Collective Agreement, he/she shall receive the wages for that position as per the classification in the Collective Agreement.
Employees:
Ted W, Allen
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COKPANY:
LETTER OT tHDBBSTRSDXEQ
Effective Way *, 19921 Bedford Xilk, Ice Creaia, Ice Cream
shipping, Milk Shipping, D.E.T., Processing, Warehouse, Maintenance, Boiler Room, Stockroom and Quality control Shall be considered 88 one Seniority cpTOUp*
LWJIR or nXDSB8T&KD»a
Effective May 4, 1992, Seniority of nev groups unionized as of
December 3, 1991 shall have their seniority calculated from
their most recent date of hire.
Part Time Merchandisers shall have their seniority calculated
for tine worked with the company.
Por the purposes of this "Letter of Understanding’:
-	Part Tins Merchandisers shall only be given seniority credit for the days they actually work
-	It is understood thst this letter only applies to the enployee who joined the union on December 3, 1991 and in
no way affects or interferes with any personnel adjustments, including b-ping, lay off or job postings that occurred prior to Nay 4, 1992.
-	The use of *most recent date Of hire* for seniority calculation shall only be applicable to the employees who joined the union es of December 3, 1991.
Limn or tnroiuxuDiirs
This will confirm OUT agrement raacbed at negotiations.
It is agreed that employees Who bid for driving positions will fall under tht following provisions:
1)	All employees who are successful in their bid for a position requiring a class 1 or class 3 license will be required to successfully under go a driving evaluation es decided by the Company*
2)	Driving positions will be awarded to the senior employee
who has the license required for the position, provided they successfully pass the required driving evaluation.
3)	Should there be no employee vith the required license apply or be SUCCSSSful in passing the driving evaluation, the
position will be awarded based on a combination of seniority and score on the driving evaluation. Preference in this case will be given to employees Who are currently in a driving position. If this should OCCUT employees will be provided with f/j£ training required to qualify then for the license required for this position.
A) Where training is required the tine required for training will be a combination of time paid by the COnpany end the employees OWn tins.
5) A list will be compiled of employees who are interested in upgrading their driving license Whet) there is not a position available. As tine permits these employees will be trained upon successful completion Of a driving evaluation. Training time will be a combination of time paid by the company and the employees own time*
FOR THE COKPAHY:	FOR THE UNION:
ttPLOYlI nUOTTXR OTITMUT
The purpose of this statement is to Outline the rules and
procedures to be followed 1J1 the transfer of employees within the operations of the company.
These provisions vill not apply to any cases where an employee is assigned new job duties, hOUT8 of VOrJt or days off as long AS the employee remains in the same classification and in the sane department. A change in Shift or a change in days off shall not be considered to be a transfer.
(1)	Subject to the provisions of the collective agreement, the skill and ability of employees, and taking into account seniority, employees Bay be transferred to meet the business requirements of the company. For the purposes of Article 11, Article 12, Article 18(C), Article 21, Article 22, and Article 23(F) the rate of pay shall be the current rate which the employee is receiving at the time payment is made under these provisions.
(2)	When an employee is transferred to a job in a
classification with 6 lover rate of pay the new rate will be phased in gradually.
-	The employee's rate of pay will not be reduced for the first six (6} veekfl of a transfer.
-	During the Second six (6) weeks the employee's rate of pay will be reduced to thi mid-point between the rate of their former rats of pay and the new rate of pay.
-	After twelve (12) weeks the employee will be paid at the rate of pay for the classification.
Should an employee be returned temporarily to a job in their former classification during the twelve (12) week period outlined above, the number of days spent in that job will be added to any of the remaining time periods specified above.
(3)	Where a transfer is to occur as a result Of a lack of work and where it is known at the time of the transfer that it will be for a period of more then one (1) week, the employee
will be given the option of exercising any seniority rights he or She Say have pursuant to Article 9 Of the collective agTeenent. If an employee elects not to exercise their Seniority rights at the time of the transfer they will have no further right to do SO Until there is no further work available.
(4)	Where an uployee is transferred to a new position and has remained in that position for a period of sixty (60) days, the position will inaedlately be posted in accordance with Article 9 of the collective agreement, Unless the company is required to continue to hold the position Open for an absent employee, by virtue of some other provision in the collective agreement. I f the position is posted and their are no successful applicants for it, the company may assign it to the junior employee without a permanent position.
(5) An employe* who is assigned to a shift which lasts more than seven(7) calendar days shall have the right to exercise shift preference over junior employees performing the ease duties in the sue classification and the saae seniority group.
(S) When an employee is assigned to a shift which includes Saturday and Sunday work , the company Vill give consideration to the personal circumstances of the eaployee for the first two weekends.
(7)	Employees will not normally be assigned to work in more than two dspartBSRtS in one day.
(8)	Subject to Article 9(L) saployses who are transferred due to a lack of work Shall have the right to return to their former department in order of Seniority■
(9)	Where ah eaployee has been transferred they Bay be removed fron the position in the following vays*
(a) Where they are returned to their former position,
<b) By successfully bidding on a posted position*
(C) Through a layoff from active employment pursuant to Article 9 of the collective agreement*
(d) When a further transfer 0CCUT6*
(10)	When an employee is transferred and 1b required to change their Shift without seven (7) Calendar days notice, then he or she will be paid the premium rate of tine end one half (1 1/2) for all hours worked outside their regular shift hours, but only for the first shift of the change. However, the premium rate ■hall not be paid in cases where the employee’s Shift is changed in order to cover the absence of another employee, or where the change is made at the rsgusst of the employee.
(U) In other C866S where employees are moved due to skill requireaents and there is work in their former department, Article 23(B) applies.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
milUTIOR or 1TUDEHTS
This will confirm our understanding reached at negotiations regarding the US® of students.
Students will be employed from the period of April 15 through to September 15 Cf the SMB® calendar year. Students may be used to perform seasonal VOrt, to replace employees VfcO are on vacation, who are sick OJT injured, when there ate insufficient volunteers for overtime and to cover leaves of absence.
The number of itudents vho are employed at any one til)® shall be limited to the follovinc unless they axe increased by mutual agreement:
Area:	Number:
Production	12
Shipping	12
Services	5
Distribution and Merchandising	4
Distribution Centres	10
	43
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COKPAKY

DATE
racLusiriiD bdioikes
Subject to Article S(J)
•	unclassified* will only be utilised when all classified employees are working
■* unclassified rate increased to plant labour rate
-	unclaealfieds should be used in areas where casuals are presently employed (as per BI) es well &S where extra workers are required
*	casuals shall only be utilised when all unclassified employees are employed
-	STD and LTD benefits to be based on average hOUTS worked for last 20 (twenty) weeks
-	provisions of the transfer agreement are not:	applicable
to unclassifieds
-	unclassified seniority to accrue on the basis of days they actually work
“ unclassified employees shall be exempt from Article 13
-	overtine shall be paid after 40 hours worked in a work
week
•* unclassified employees shall be exempt from Article 17 f uniforms shall be issued as required
FOE THE UNION:
DATE
ADDEmOM TO rffl.T.SCTTvs mmm BETWEEK
barkers co-operative dairy ldhted AND
EHERGT un> CHEMICAL BOWERS OHIOH
LOCAL 40
DATED ABRIL 20, 1000
The parties agree that the following two itefiS font part of the Agreenent:
1. When ttaero is a vork shortage m the let Cream Department, t ho Conpany will endeavour to give a nininun average of forty hours of work per week for the six most senior persons in the Departsent unless they prefer a lay-off.
2. The Company will recognise a union negotiating committee limited to five (5) fiSployet/EtmberS and will pay these employees at regular tine for wages lost, during direct bargaining sessions, up to a naxinun of two hundred and fifty (250) hours for the Comnittee.
February 19, 1990
«M» 8EMt JOL1CT
Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited agrees to supply adequate
rain gear to applicable employees provided they read over the
following policy and sign, if agreed, at the bottom of the
page.
1.	All rain gear is the property of Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited and will be wed for work related duties only.
2.	T orn or daaaged rain gear will be repaired or replaced by Farmers provided the itsas are returned to the supervisor. lost or stolen iteas Vill be the responsibility of the employee and will, therefore, be replaced immediately by then.
3.	A signed copy of the issue will be given to the employee, their supervisor and Personnel for their file.
4.	Should an employee terminate employment with Farmers Dairy, the gear shall be returned to the supervisor before they issue the employee's Final pay.
Issue:	____________________________________
Received by: _____________________ Date:
Authorised by:	Date:
nanmtnwcs POLICE aiMBCW
Parn«r»CO-Ci	_
of having all personnel in Maintenancs classifications attain journeyman status through the Nova Scotia Department of lAbour Apprentice Training Program. To facilitate this, Farmers
Dairy vill sign an Apprentice Training Agreement for any employee in a Maintenance classification who is interested in completing their apprenticeship. Every individual (with the exception of those Grandfathered individuals) in a Maintenance classification below Journeymen status must enrol in the Apprentice Program, and also sign a letter of intent outlining their desire to complete their apprenticeship and abide by the following conditions.
1, An individual who fails to pass a block examination after attending COUTSe for two times may be dropped from the Apprentice Program and at that time Will have their position at Farmers Dairy re-assessed in discussions
between management and the union.
2. An individual VhO fails to pass a block examination and then fails to attend two consecutive offerings of the same block without a valid reason acceptable to management, may be dropped from the Apprentice program and at that time Will have their position et Farmers Dairy re-assessed m discussions between management and the union.
In return, Farmers Dairy agrees that the following conditions shall be in force for those individuals Who enrol in the Apprentice Program:
1. Any individual interested in attending a block course Shall make a request in writing to the Company in reasonable time before _its_of faring. when more than one individual applies to attend a block course at the same
time and conflict exists, seniority, rotation, and the
length of time since last attending a block course will be used to determine who shall attend.
2. As a means of aupport for those individuals that are going on course during their Apprenticeship, Farmers will offer a monetary bonus for those who successfully complete each block. ftliS bonus Will be ftQU&l to the tVO weeks pay which were lost awaiting C.I.C, benefits to begin, plus a "topping off" amount equa 1 to the difference between Vhfit is received as weekly gross wages from U. I.C. and what is a current week (40 hrs.) pay for that individual for each of the remaining weeks oh course. The bonus will be paid upon notification of successful completion of the course. Those Who fail to pass the block examination Will not be eligible for the
bonus.
Should as individual leave the employment of the Dairy vithin one year after receipt of their bonus, they would agree to repay the bonus in an mount equal to l/12th of the total for each month remaining to reach one year. (For example, if as individual left after 5 months of receiving their bonus, they would have to repay 7/12ths of the total.)
3* Any writing of block examination credits for third or forth level without prior course attendance must have
approval in writing by the Company.
At All participants in the Apprentice Program will supply the tools listed in schedule A (attached) . Each mechanic will be gives a yearly tool allowance of $200.00 upon presentation of purchase receipts equal to half the
allowance, Oil or before April 15th of each year. This allowance is to be used to purchase relevant tools.
It is agreed that this policy Will remain in full force and effect during the ten of the Collective Agreement dated
swum Potter rtvHBiarr
fanners Co-operative Dairy is conaitted to the ultimate goal of having all personnel in applicable garage Classifications attain journeyman status through the Nova Scotia Department of Labour Apprentice Training Program. To facilitate this, Parsers Dairy will sign an Apprentice Training Agreement for any employee m an applicable garage classification who is interested in completing their apprenticeship. Every individual in as applicable garage classification below journeyman status AUSt enrol in the Apprentice Program, and also sign a letter of intent outlining their desire to complete their apprenticeship and abide by the following conditions.
1. An individual Who fails to pass a block examination after attending course for tVO times say be dropped frOB the Apprentice Program and at that time will have their position St Farmers Dairy re-assessed in discussions between management and the union.
2* An individual who fails to pass a block examination and then fails to attend two consecutive offerings of the same bl ock without a valid reason acceptable to managesent, may be droppad fro* the Apprentice Program and at that time will have their position at Parners Dairy re-assessed in discussions between eanagement and the union.
In return, Parsers Dairy agrees that the following conditions shall be in force for those individuals who enrol in the Apprentice Progxas.
AS a means Of support for those individuals that are going on course during their Apprenticeship, Farmers will offer a monetary bonus for those who successfully conplete each block. This bonus will be • qual to the two weeks pay which were lost awaiting U.I.C. benefits to begin, plus a "topping off aaount equal to the difference between what is received SS weekly g-roes wages from O.I.C. and what is 8 current week (40 hrs.) pay for that individual for each of the remaining weeks on course. The b onus will be paid upon notification of Successful completion of the course. Those Who fail to pass the block examination will not be eligible for the bonus.
Should an individual Leave the employment of the Dairy within one year after receipt of their bonus, they would agree to repay the bonus in an amount equal to l/12th of the total for each month remaining to reach one year. (For example, if an
individual left after 5 nontbs Of receiving their bonus, they VOUld have to repay 7/12tha of the total.)
It is agreed that this policy Vill remain in full force and effect during the term of the Collective Agree&ent dated