j SOURCE |			i
	£	(o	
TER'1-. !??		JJL	
N’ o. Or			i
EMPi.O'-'?ES		oi a # !	
NOMiKE			
D'tWPLO EES			
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
DATED THIS day of the month of
BETWEEN:	Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited
P.O.Box 8118 Halifax, Nova Scotia B3K 5Y6
AND:	Communication, Energy & Paper Workers Union
Local 40 N
April 16,1998
0! ;T !
00374 (06)
TNDEX OF ARTICLES
1	OBJECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT................................ 1
2	BARGAININGUNIT .......................................... •
3	MUTUAL RIGHTS AND BENEFITS ............................. .2
4	UNION SECURITY .......................................... .
5	UNIONREPRESENTATION ................................... •
6	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE .................................... .5
7	ARBITRATION ............................................. .
8	SENIORITY ............................................... •
9	PROMOTIONS, LAY-OFFS, REHIRING AND JOB OPENINGS...........9
10	FLOATERS ............................................ • • 14
11	DISCHARGE................................................l5
12	PAID HOLIDAYS............................................l5
13	PAID VACATION ....................................... •••16
14	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME ............................. 19
15	RULES GOVERNING DRIVER SALESPERSONS .....................23
16	ROUTECUTTING ........................................ ..2 4
17	WAGES ............................................... ..2 5
18	UNIFORMS ............................................ ..2 5
19	ABSENCES ............................................ ..2 6
20	BULLETINBOARDS ...................................... ...2 8
21	MEDICALEXAMINATION .................................. -28
22	SECURITY PLAN............................................28
23	SICKNESSBENEFITS .................................... ..2 9
24	GENERAL.. ........................................... ..3 0
25	SAFETY .............................................. -3 1
26	SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE ................................... .32
27	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE .................................. .33
28	DURATION OF AGREEMENT
WAGES APPENDIX “A” - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE .................... -34
WAGES APPENDIX "B" - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE ......................37
WAGES APPENDIX "C" - DAIRY DIVISION/ICE CREAM DIVISION .......38
WAGES APPENDIX "D" - MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATION...............39
WAGES APPENDIX "E" - GARAGE ..................................44
WAGES APPENDIX "F" - MIDDLETON................................46
WAGES APPENDIX "G" - BULK TANK DRIVERS........................42
WAGES APPENDIX "H" - HAULERS ............................... • 48
WAGES APPENDIX “I” - MERCHANDISERS - FULL TIME ...............49
APPENDIX “J” - MERCHANDISERS - PART TIME ................... .50
APPENDIX "K" - BOILER ROOM ................................. .52
APPENDIX “L” - DRIVER BUMPING CRITERIA ..................... -54
ADDENDUM TO COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT............................ -55
RAIN GEAR POLICY	-56
April 16, 1998
MAINTENANCE POLICY STATEMENT ..............................
GARAGE POLICY STATEMENT....................................
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SPLIT SHIFTS.....................
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - DISTRIBUTION OF WORK ON HOLIDAYS.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - RETURN AFTER ABSENCE DUE TO ILLNESS ...
UTILIZATION OF STUDENTS....................................
UNCLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES.....................................
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SENIORITY........................
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - DRIVING POSITIONS ...............
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - FLOATER POSITIONS................
SPECIAL SEVERANCE PROVISIONS FOR GARAGE EMPLOYEES: ........
CALL PROCEDURE FOR RECALLS OF LESS THAN 40 HOURS...........
.57
.59
.60
.61
.62
.63
.64
.65
.66
.67
.68
.69
April 16, 1998
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
DATED THIS day of the month of
BETWEEN:	Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited
P. O. Box 8118,
Halifax, Nova Scotia
hereinafter referred to as the “Employer”
AND:	Communication, Energy & Paper Workers Union
Local 40 N
hereinafter referred to as the “Union”
WITNESSETH that the Employer and the Union hereby mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - OBJECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT
A.	The intent and purpose of this Agreement shall be to promote and improve industrial and economic relations in the industry, to establish and maintain a high degree of discipline and efficiency and to set forth herein the basic agreements covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment which will render justice to all.
B.	The parties hereto desire to cooperate in establishing and maintaining proper and suitable conditions in the Company which will tend to secure uniform and equitable terms of employment satisfactory to Employer and employees, to provide methods for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes which may arise between them, and foster goodwill, friendly relations and better understanding between the parties.
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING UNIT
A.	The Employer recognizes the Union to be the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees hereinafter defined to be in the bargaining unit, and those employees shall be all employees of the Employer excluding supervisors, employees of the rank of foreperson or above, salespersons other than driver salespersons, office staff and those excluded by Section 2 (2) (a) and (b) of the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia.
April 16, 1998
2
B.	Forepersons and those above the rank of forepersons will not perform bargaining unit work except:
1.	In emergency conditions
2.	For the purpose of demonstration or training
3.	To relieve an employee for breaks
4.	When the regular employee is absent and no replacement is available
Sales supervisors shall continue to perform their normal sales and merchandising activities provided, however, that such activities shall not be extended by the Company so as to cause the lay-off of any bargaining unit employee.
C,	There will be no contracting out of Wholesale Routes, Long Haul or Bulk Tank during the life of this agreement. This section is not retroactive and applies to work being currently performed by the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 3 - MI ITT I AT, RIGHTS AND BENEFITS
A.	No employee shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written contract which may limit, alter, modify, or conflict with the stipulations of this Agreement.
B.	There shall be no lockout by the Employer and no strike by the Union during the term of this Agreement.
C.	In administering this Agreement, the Union and the Company shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a manner consistent with this agreement.
The parties agree that each will comply with the provisions of the Nova Scotia Human Rights Act.
D.	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Employer to manage and control the Employer’s operations and without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing:
1.	To maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
2,	To hire, discharge, transfer, promote, classify, demote, discipline, suspend, layoff, transfer and assign work to employees and to introduce new or improved methods or facilities; provided that a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided;
April 16, 1998
3
3.	Generally, to manage, control, continue, discontinue in whole or in part, the Employer’s operations and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number of employees, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines and processes to be used, and the expansion, limitation or cessation of operations.
4.	The Employer shall retain at all times the right to maintain a sufficient qualified workforce for the proper efficient operation of the Company.
5.	Nothing in this management rights clause shall detract from the rights of management as exercised in the past.
6.	However, the exercise of the functions of Management will be consistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY
A.	All employees covered by this agreement shall at the time of hiring sign a dues check off form for the union as a condition of employment.
B.	Monthly union dues shall be deducted from the pay of all employees in the bargaining unit. The amount to be deducted shall be determined by a resolution of the Union and the Company will be advised of the amount.
The dues collected shall be forwarded to the Secretary Treasurer of the local union, by the tenth day of the month following the period for which deductions have been made.
The Company shall include a list in alphabetical order showing the names of the employees from whom deductions have been made and the total amount deducted from each employee.
C.	The Company shall deduct monthly union dues from high school, college and university students of two hours wage per month. Students will be hired from the period of April 15 through to September 15 of the same year. Students, upon completing 120 working days in a calendar year, will join the Union and his/her seniority date will be calculated on the 12 1 st working day for that individual.
If a student does not return to school, and is not laid off, the seniority date will be assigned on the 26th working day after September 15. The student, at this point, must go to the unclassified pool if there is an opening.
The Company shall deduct initiation fees along with monthly union dues and remit same to the Union.
April 16, 1998
4
ARTICLE 5 - UNION REPRESENTATION
A.	The Employer acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or elect a Shop Steward for the employees, and if the operations are such as cannot be handled by one steward only, additional stewards may be appointed or elected.
B.	The Employer shall recognize a Union Grievance Committee comprised of two (2) members, both of whom shall be employees of the Company and appointed by the Union.
C.	The Union agrees to advise the Employer in writing of the names of the Shop Steward(s) and members of the Grievance Committee and of any subsequent change in the names thereof.
D.	The Union Representative shall with the permission of the Employer be permitted to enter the Employer’s premises on Union business provided he/she does not unduly interfere with the operations or progress of the work.
El. For matters arising within the Bedford Plant, the Shop Steward(s) shall be allowed the necessary time off with pay to investigate and settle grievances on the premises. They shall be free to discharge their duties without fear that their relations with the Company may be affected. The Shop Steward shall act in good faith and not abuse these rights and shall make honest attempts to settle grievances.
E2. For matters arising outside the Bedford Plant, the Employer agrees to provide compensation to the Shop Steward(s) who are required to attend personally, at one of the branches for union business. This compensation will include travel time and time spent on the Employer’s premises. It is mutually agreed, however, that the Employer’s obligation to provide such compensation shall be limited to a maximum amount equal to 200 hours (at regular rates) in any given calendar year.
F.	A Shop Steward shall be an employee;‘: of the Employer. There shall be no discrimination against a Shop Steward for Union activities.
G.	An employee shall have the right to have his/her Shop Steward present at any meeting with a supervisor when such meeting concerns disciplinary action for that employee. In the absence of the regular Shop Steward, the Chief Shop Steward may attend.
April 16, 1998
5
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Al. The parties to this Agreement recognize that within the Grievance Procedure there lies the means for resolution of differences of interpretation or violation or alleged violation of any one of the stipulations of this Agreement or working conditions by the Employer or the employees who are covered by this Agreement.
A2. The Union may file a grievance on behalf of all employees or any restricted number of employees or on behalf of an individual employee where the Union believes there has been violation of the Collective Agreement affecting an employee or a group of employees. Such grievance may be filed directly at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
FIRST STEP:
B.	An attempt will be made between the shop steward and the employee, with the department supervisor to settle the matter verbally.
SECOND STEP:
C.	If this attempt is unsuccessful, a grievance shall be submitted in writing to the department supervisor within ten (10) working days of the day the matter of the grievance occurred. The supervisor shall then meet with the Steward and employee and a decision shall be rendered within five (5) working days of receipt of the grievance.
THIRD STEP:
D.	Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement at step two, the Union shall within five
(5)	working days, submit the grievance to the manager or his representative who shall then meet with the grievance committee and render a decision within five (5) working days. The grievance committee may have the assistance of the National Representative of the Union at this stage.
FOURTH STEP:
E.	Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement, the grievance may within ten (10) days then be referred to an arbitrator in accordance with Article 7 of this Agreement.
F.	Any grievance not submitted within the time limits provided for in steps one, two or three shall automatically expire; however, the time limits may be extended by mutual agreement of both parties.
April 16, 1998
6
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
A.	No matter may be submitted to an Arbitrator unless settlement thereof has been attempted through the Grievance Procedure set forth in Article 6.
B.	The Employer and Union shall agree on an Arbitrator within four (4) days following the notice of Arbitration given by one or the other party.
C.	Should either party refuse to agree on an Arbitrator, such appointment may be made by final and binding decision of the Nova Scotia Minister of Labour.
D.	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be given within fourteen (14) days following the hearing and shall be final and binding on both parties. It is understood, however, that the Arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the stipulations of this Agreement, nor to delete, alter, or modify any part thereof, provided however, the Arbitrator may alter any discipline imposed by the Company, including altering a discharge to a suspension if the Arbitrator deems it just.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
A.	Seniority shall be defined as the length of continuous employment with the Company while a member of the bargaining unit.
B.	Seniority rights shall be established separately for:
(1)	Bedford Milk Division & Ice Cream Division
(2)	Bulk Tank Graders
(3)	Haulers
(4)	Truro Distribution Centre
(5)	Kentville Distribution Centre
(6)	Annapolis Distribution Centre
(7)	Middleton Distribution Centre
(8)	Yarmouth Distribution Centre
(9)	Shelburne Distribution Centre
(10)	Bridgewater Distribution Centre
(11)	Garage Workers - Bedford
(12)	Spread Plant - Middleton
(13)	Merchandisers - Bedford - Full Time and Part Time
(14)	Lunenburg Dairy
All branches except for (2), (3), (11), (12), (13) and (14) shall have two seniority groups:
April 16, 1998
7
(A)	Drivers and Driver-Salespersons
(B)	All other employees
Seniority in all cases is to be calculated from the date of acquisition by Farmers or at the date of completion of the probationary period as outlined in paragraph C, whichever is the latter.
This section B shall not be construed to mean that unskilled employees shall be promoted into jobs requiring special qualifications.
C.	The seniority of each full-time employee covered by this Agreement shall be established after a probationary period of sixty (60) working days upon completion of which seniority shall be calculated from the day the employee was hired. During this probationary period, there will be regular meetings between the new employee and his/her supervisor to review the new employee’s progress. The supervisor will solicit and consider the views of the new employee’s co-workers in determining the employee’s progress. The new employee will be evaluated, at least in part, against a list of core skills required for the job he/she is doing, such list to have been developed by the Employer with input from the Union.
D.	An employee’s seniority shall be forfeited for the following reasons:
(1)	If he/she voluntarily resigns;
(2)	If he/she is discharged for just cause;
(3)	If he/she has been absent for five (5) working days without notifying the Employer, or without reasonable excuse
El. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, an employee unable to work because of proven illness or injury shall accumulate and retain seniority rights. When such employee returns to work within twelve (12) months, he/she shall have his/her same job, provided he/she is able to perform the work.
If upon discussion between the employee, his/her medical doctor, and the Employer, it is obvious that the employee cannot return to his/her same job within the twelve (12) month period, the position will be posted, upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
E2. The accumulation and retention of seniority rights while an employee is unable to work because of proven illness or injury shall not entitle the employee to pyramid benefits.
E3. A medical Doctor’s certificate shall constitute sufficient proof of illness or injury. It is clearly understood that a false report of illness may be cause for discipline up to and including discharge.
April 16, 1998
8
E4(i). If an employee has been absent from work for less than twelve (12) months, they will be eligible to receive benefits under Article 13, 23 and 24 F.
E4(ii). If an employee has been absent from work for 12 months or longer, they will not be eligible for benefits under Article 13,23 and 24 F. When an employee has returned to work for a period of 60 calendar days, they will then be eligible to receive benefits under Article 13, 23 and 24 F.
It is clearly understood:
1.	That the returning employee does not have to repeat his/her probationary period, as per Article 8.
2.	That an employee’s seniority accrues through the period mentioned in 4(i) and 4(ii) above.
3.	If during the sixty day period mentioned above an employee is absent through illness, he/she shall be eligible to receive a sick day(s) as per the provisions of Article 23.
4.	An employee shall not be eligible to accumulate benefits under Article 13,23 and 24 F during their absence of more than twelve months.
E4(iii) Full time employees hired after December 3 1st, 1993 shall be entitled to the provisions of Article 13,23, and 24F on the basis of one fifty-second (l/52nd) for each week of active employment. These employees shall only be entitled to the provisions of Article 22 while actively employed. Company contributions to these benefits shall cease in the first month following layoff. Coverage for Group Life Insurance, Dependent Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Medical Benefits, Vision Care, and Dental Care may be continued during the time limits provided for in Article 8E provided the employee pays the full premium.
F.	If an employee is ill when recalled to work, Article 8E will apply.
G.	An employee who is promoted out of the bargaining unit shall retain his/her seniority rights for a period of six (6) months, said period to be included in the seniority rating, in the case of demotion, voluntary return to the bargaining unit or abolishment of the position.
H.	The Company agrees to post seniority lists by seniority group. The lists will be posted at the conclusion of each fiscal quarter i.e. end of January, April, July and October. It is the responsibility of all employees to immediately notify the Company of any errors in the listings. The Union is to receive copies plus a master list showing Company seniority.
April 16, 1998
9
I.	Casuals shall not attain seniority and shall not be subject to the terms of this Agreement. Summer students shall attain seniority in accordance with provisions of Article 4. Casuals and summer students shall be used to replace employees who are on vacation, who are sick or injured, when there are insufficient volunteers for overtime, and to cover leaves of absence. Casuals and summer students shall be covered by the provisions of the Nova Scotia Labour Standards Act.
J.	A new employee, acquiring seniority after the required probationary period, shall become an unclassified Union worker and shall draw the rate of pay for that designation until such time as that employee has successfully bid on a job. There will be a maximum of five (5) such employees unless this number is changed by mutual agreement of the Union and Company.
ARTICLE 9 - PROMOTIONS. LAY-OFFS. REHIRING AND JOB OPENINGS
A. Vacancies, new positions and promotions within the bargaining unit shall be filled on the basis of seniority, provided the senior applicant has the ability to qualify to perform the job.
A posting shall not be required if circumstances result in a department having the same number of employees or fewer in number: ‘If a fewer number in a classification is needed, the junior employee in that classification, within that department, shall be reclassified, upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
B1. Subject to sub-section (2) below, announcements of openings for all jobs within the bargaining unit will be posted on the bulletin boards for a period of five (5) hill working days prior to the filling of the job vacancy. Employees desiring consideration in the filling of the job vacancy shall signify their desire by applying in writing to the appropriate manager. The applicant may request a signed receipt for his/her job bid. All openings shall be awarded within ten (10) working days of the date of removal of the job posting.
Within five (5) working days of the removal of the job posting, the senior applicants, to a maximum of two (2) persons, shall be allowed a familiarization period of five (5) days each to determine their desire for the job. Their decision is to be made by the end of the fifth day in each case.
Ability to perform the job will be determined by an appropriate familiarization or training period.
B2. There shall be one posting of a vacancy resulting from the posting of the original opening. The vacant position which is available at that point will be awarded to the most
April 16, 1998
10
senior volunteer from that department provided he/she has the ability to qualify to perform the job.
C.	Employees accepted by management on a posted job who fail to qualify within twenty-five (25) working days shall be returned to their former job. The qualifying period may be extended by mutual agreement.
D.	Any successful job bidder shall be paid 90% of the full rate during the training period.
El.	Successful bidders shall be placed on their awarded jobs within a period not to exceed
eight (8) weeks from the date the position was awarded.
E2.	A successful bidder shall not bid on any other posting for a period of six (6) months.
F.	Jobs shall not be considered vacant if an employee is absent through sickness, injury or authorized leave. If it is known that an employee is to be absent for more than twenty-five (25) working days, the staff within the department will be canvassed, with the most senior employee applying being assigned to the work provided retraining is not necessary for that person or his/her replacement. Upon completion of the temporary assignment, the employee shall be returned to his/her former job.
G.	Where a senior applicant does not receive the position applied for, he/she shall be able to request of the appropriate manager the reason why his/her application was refused.
H.	A job posting shall show:
(1)	The classification of the j ob
(2)	The current days and hours of work
(3)	The salary
(4)	The shift premium (if applicable)
I.	Absent employees may contact the Human Resource department or shop steward for information on current job openings.
J.	Layoff and Bumping:
Jl. In the case of work elimination resulting in the need to reduce the work force in a classification, the junior employee in the classification in the department where work is being eliminated can bump by choosing the work assignment of any employee junior to him/her who is the junior employee in any classification (defined to include a weekend shift job as a separate classification) in any department in the bargaining unit subject to the following three conditions:
April 16, 1998
11
(a)	In order to bump into driving, trades and quality control jobs, an employee must be able to meet the bumping criteria agreed to by the Employer and the Union for the job. (For driving bumping criteria, see Appendix “L”. For trades bumping criteria, see Appendices “D”, “E” and “K”. Quality control bumping criterion is a two-year food technology or lab technology diploma or equivalent training or experience.)
(b)	For all other jobs, there must be the expectation that an employee will be able to do the job within the period of time that would be required by the average employee to do that job.
(c)	Where there are jobs in a classification in more than one geographic location (i.e., Bedford plant, Middleton spreads plant, distribution centres) within the bargaining unit, the job(s) in that classification will be considered a separate classification in each geographic location so that an employee will not be required to move from one city or town to another in order to avail himself/herself of his/her right to bump a junior employee.
J2. If an employee proves unable to do the job he/she has bumped into within a
reasonable period of time (at least the period of time that would be required by an average employee), he/she will then bump into the job held by the most junior employee in his/her geographic location he/she is qualified to do. If there is no job he/she is qualified to do held by an employee junior to the one he/she first bumped into, he/she will be laid off.
J3.	The foregoing provisions also apply to any employee displaced by a bump.
J4.	Seven (7) calendar days notice will be given to an employee who will be laid off from
active employment.
J5. At the time of a layoff, any employee can volunteer to take a layoff.Employees will not be forced to bump but can choose to be laid off instead.
J6. Notwithstanding Article 8B, there will, for the purposes of this Article, be one seniority list for the whole bargaining unit with the exception of part-time merchandisers, who will have a separate seniority list.
J7. In the case of a full-time employee who moves into a part-time merchandiser position he/she shall be entitled to only the provisions of the Collective Agreement which pertain to part-time merchandisers while working in the part-time merchandiser position.
April 16, 1998
12
K.	Shift Changes Resulting From Bumping
Kl. When an employee bumps into a classification in a department, he/she may pick any shift (or route, as applicable), within that classification subject to the following conditions:
(a)	that the present shift that he/she has bumped into has a starting time that varies from the starting time of the shift of the bumping employee’s former job by more than three (3) hours;
(b)	that the employee working that shift or route is junior to the bumping employee;
(c)	that no additional training is required beyond what has to be provided as a result of the bump;
(d)	that the changes in shifts or routes do not create any customer service issues. If the Employer considers that this applies in a particular situation, it will discuss it with the Union.
L.	Rights of Laid Off Employees
LI. An employee who is laid off shall retain his/her seniority for a period of twelve (12) months from the last day on which he/she worked.
L2. Where the Employer has forty (40) or more hours of work available within a Company work week (Monday to Sunday inclusive), it will recall the employee on layoff with the most seniority who is able to do the work in question. An employee on layoff must accept any recall offered to him/her unless he/she has a reasonable excuse (which includes approved training). If personal circumstances necessitate (for example, arranging for child care), an employee can delay being recalled for up to twenty-four (24) hours after the time he/she is to report for work. However, the employee must advise the Employer at the time of the recall of his/her need to delay reporting before the delay in reporting will be excused.
L3. Where the Employer has less than forty (40) hours of work available within a Company work week (Monday to Sunday inclusive), it will get that work done by first offering it to the senior person with recall rights able to do the work in question who has indicated his/her desire and ability to respond to a short-notice shift. (The details are in the attached procedure.)
L4. An employee on layoff will not be required to respond to a recall to work until after the expiry of seven (7) calendar days from the date of layoff.
April 16, 1998
13
L5. If, within six (6) months, the former job of an employee who was displaced by the elimination of work or the bump of another employee reappears (as distinct from a vacancy caused by an employee leaving the department), he/she is entitled to return to that former job before it is filled by any other means. If more than one employee was displaced from the classification in which the work reappears, entitlement to return will be on the basis of seniority. Any other employee who had been displaced by a bumping employee now returning to his/her former job will also have the right to return to his/her former job.
L6. When a vacancy that exceeds or is expected to exceed nine (9) months in duration (or twelve (12) months in the case of a requirement to fill in for an absent employee) arises in a department, it must be posted and made available to be filled in accordance with the regular job posting procedures before an employee on layoff can be permanently recalled into it.
L7. If there is a requirement for extra work in a department where there has been a layoff within the preceding six (6) months (twelve (12) months in the ice cream department) that is not met by overtime in the department, the recall of a laid-off employee, or the use of an unclassified or casual employee, the Employer will provide the Union with the details.
L8.	A laid off employee will be entitled to continued group insurance benefits (with the
exception of short-term and long-term disability insurance benefits) if he/she continues to pay his/her share of the premiums during the twelve (12) month period referred to Article 9L-1. During this twelve (12) month period, a laid off employee can also continue to participate in the Company pension plan, and have the time on layoff credited as pensionable service, by continuing to pay his/her pension contribution during the period of layoff. When a laid off employee is recalled, his/her vacation, sick days and Christmas bonus will be reduced by one fifty-second (1/52) for every week he/she is on layoff for the entire week.
L9. Casuals or students will not be utilized if they prevent the recall of a laid-off
employee.
M.	Additional Provisions for Ice Cream Employees
Ml. For the purposes of these additional provisions, “ice cream employees” includes ice cream shippers and ice cream drivers.
M2. At or after the time of layoff or bump, ice cream employees can choose to use these additional provisions (Article 9M-3) or the regular layoff provisions (Article 9J-1). Any ice cream employee who chooses the regular provisions ceases to be considered an ice cream employee and has no further access to these additional provisions.
M3. An ice cream employee who chooses to bump rather than be laid off shall bump into
April 16, 1998
14
the job held by the most junior person in the Bedford plant he/she is qualified to do. If there is no job he/she is qualified to do held by an employee junior to him/her, he/she will be laid off. For a period of twelve (12) months from the effective date of the layoff or bump, ice cream employees retain recall rights to their former job (as distinct from a vacancy caused by an employee leaving the department), and any non-ice cream employees displaced by a bumping ice cream employee have these same recall rights to their former jobs. However, if more than one ice cream employee was displaced, entitlement to return will be on the basis of seniority subject to ability to do the work. Any other employee who had been displaced by a bumping employee now returning to his/her former job will also have the right to return to his/her former job.
ARTICLE 10 - FLOATERS
A.	Employees classified in trades or driver positions are excluded from the application of this article.
B.	A floater is expected to:
a)	be able to perform at least 90% of the duties in the department;
b)	undergo shift changes on short notice;
c)	be called first for relief (this does not include overtime to which the floater would not otherwise be entitled); and
d)	cover employee absences and meet production needs (this does not include overtime to which the floater would not otherwise be entitled).
C.	Article 14F does not apply to floaters.
D.	If a floater who normally works Monday to Friday works a weekend shift, he/she will be entitled to the premium pay provided for by Article 14B and C. (Premium pay will not be paid when the floater job in question regularly involves weekend work.)
E.	A floater will be paid the premium pay provided for by Article 14B and C for work performed in excess of eight or ten hours in a day. A floater has the right to refuse to work a second shift in a day if that second shift is at straight time rates.
F.	Floaters will be selected by first canvassing the employees in the department. The employee who expresses an interest in the position (or, if more than one employee expresses an interest in the position, in order of seniority) will be given a twenty-five (25) working day
April 16, 1998
15
trial period within which it will be determined whether the employee is going to be able to do the job. If the position is not filled through this process, it will be posted.
G.	Apart from the transitional letter of understanding and the provisions of this Article, the floater classification will be treated the same as the other classifications in the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 1 1 - DISCHARGE
A.	In all cases involving the discharge of an employee, the Employer must immediately notify the discharged employee, in writing, of his/her discharge and the reason therefore.
B.	Any discharged employee must be paid, in full, all wages owed to the employee by the Employer, including earned vacation pay, if any, within ten (10) working days from the date of discharge and after any legal liability to the Employer has been paid or satisfied.
C.	A claim, by an employee, that the employee has been unjustly discharged from employment shall be submitted in writing as a grievance and presented to the Manager or the responsible representative, within five (5) working days from date of discharge and such grievance will be accepted at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 12 - PAID HOLIDAYS
A.	New Years Day, Good Friday, the day observed as the Queen’s Birthday, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and Heritage Day if proclaimed a legal holiday, shall be paid holidays, provided nevertheless that if because of paid holidays, three off days occur consecutively, one of such off days as determined by the Employer shall be worked as a regular working day. The Civic Holiday shall be that day which is defined in a “Letter of Understanding” signed by the Union and Employer and posted at each location.
B.	Any employee absent without good cause satisfactory to the Company on the working day preceding or the working day following any of these holidays will not receive the benefit of the provisions of this Article 12 or be permitted to use the sick days referred to in Article 23, Section B. For the holiday in question, when an employee is required to work on any of the above mentioned holidays, the employee shall be remunerated at the rate of double time for the work performed on such paid holiday in addition to the holiday pay.
C.	The Company agrees that should a paid holiday occur on an employee’s day off, such employee shall be compensated with an additional day’s pay or a day off in lieu of the
April 16, 1998
16
holiday, the choice between the day’s pay or the day off to be at the discretion of the employee. If a day off is chosen, such day off must be scheduled within four months after the holiday in question unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Employer and employee for the advantage of the employee.
D.	Non-probationary employees who are laid off ten or less working days prior to a holiday shall be paid for the holiday.
El. When a paid holiday occurs on a scheduled day off, and the employee is not required to work, he/she shall be paid:
one fifth of regular weekly wage if working a 5 day week one quarter of regular weekly wage if working a 4 day week
E2. When a paid holiday occurs on a scheduled work day, and the employee is not required to work, he/she shall be paid:
one fifth of regular weekly wage if working a 5 day week one quarter of regular weekly wage if working a 4 day week
F. An employee shall not be entitled to receive holiday pay pursuant to this article for any holiday which falls within the time period in which the employee is also qualified to receive Short Term Disability, Long Term Disability or Workers Compensation Benefits.
ARTICLE 13 - PAID VACATION
Al. In the event an employee shall have completed less than one (1) full year of continuous employment with the Employer, year ending May 1 st in any year, he/she shall be granted vacation or pay according to the provisions of the Labour Standards Code of Nova Scotia.	•
A2. The Company agrees to grant vacation entitlement on the anniversary of the employee’s hiring date, however, scheduling of vacations is to remain as of May 1 st of each year.
A3. The Company will endeavour to grant employees vacations as requested throughout the year provided, however, that sufficient trained vacation replacements are available so as not to prevent the Company from operating in an efficient, effective manner to meet the needs of our customers.
Bl. Each employee who has completed one (1) year’s continuous service with the
April 16, 1998
17
Employer shall be entitled to two (2) week’s vacation with pay.
B2. Each employee who has completed five (5) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay.
B3. Each employee who has completed ten (10) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay.
B4. Each employee who has completed twenty (20) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation with pay.
B5. Each employee who has completed twenty-eight (28) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation with pay.
The pay referred to in B( 1) to B(5) inclusive, for all fulltime employees, shall be the greater
O f
(i)	the straight time hourly earnings, at the time of vacation, multiplied by the number of hours in the employee’s work week for each week of vacation entitlement.
OR
(ii)	two & one half percent (2.5%) for each week of vacation entitlement, multiplied by the figure which results from the gross earnings in the previous calendar year being reduced by Christmas bonus.
C. Any employee entitled to such one, two, three, four, five or six weeks vacation with pay when is discharged, leaves of his/her own accord, or is laid off due to lack of work prior to taking such vacation shall be compensated at the rate of pay he/she would have received for such vacation.
Dl. Employees who become ill or are injured prior to or during their scheduled vacation may postpone the vacation (or the remainder of the vacation) if the Employer is satisfied that the following conditions are met:
(a)	the illness or injury is sufficiently severe that the employee is confined to bed or hospitalized for three days or more;
(b)	the employee is incapable of taking the vacation he/she had planned;
(c)	the employee is incapable of performing his/her normal duties; and
(d)	the employee provides satisfactory medical information confirming that all of these conditions have been met.
April 16, 1998
18
D2. The vacation days that may be postponed under paragraph 1 above are those days remaining in the particular block of vacation. The postponed vacation will be rescheduled by the Employer to a time convenient to the Employer and to a time that does not affect the scheduled vacations of any other employees.
D3. As long as the employee is receiving short-term disability benefits, he/she will remain off work. However, once the employee’s doctor indicates that the employee is fit to return to work, the employee will either come back to work or continue with the balance of his/her vacation, at the option of the Employer.
D4. If the employee whose vacation is postponed has received his/her vacation pay in advance of the vacation, the vacation pay relating to the postponed vacation must be repaid to the Employer prior to a claim for short-term disability benefits being filed. (It is understood that if the employee fails to repay the vacation pay, he/she will not be able to access short-term disability benefits.)
E.	The choice of vacation periods of driver-salespersons shall be according to seniority ratings.
F.	Employees shall not be permitted to accumulate vacation periods from year to year except when proven illness or injury prevents them from using their earned vacation for the year in which they were absent.
G.	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it shall be understood that the Company will recognize the years of continuous service that an employee has had with any Company Farmers Co-operative Dairy has purchased, and such employ ee(s) shall be entitled to the full vacation benefits of this Agreement as if the years of service were with Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited (not applicable to companies purchased after September 1,1972).
HI. The vacation list shall be posted no later than March 15.
All employees shall submit their preferred vacation dates to the Employer by April 1 st and each employee is entitled to use seniority to establish a claim for two weeks of their vacation entitlement. The Employer shall post the vacation lists no later than April 15th and employees shall have two weeks from the posted date to register a protest. Any employee who does not apply for their vacation dates by April 30th shall not have the right to protest and shall accept vacation assigned to them by the Employer.
Having thus established the vacation priorities for two weeks, employees may then exercise seniority to claim for other vacation periods which may be available within their department in accordance with provisions of this Contract.
April 16, 199B
19
H2. Employees shall only be allowed a maximum of two (2) weeks vacation during the summer vacation period unless it is mutually agreed between the Employer and the employee for the employee to receive extra weeks of vacation. Any extra weeks of vacation granted shall not interfere with other employees’ vacation.
Should an employee’s vacation be cancelled or altered by the Employer, the employee shall be reimbursed for the non-returnable portion of vacation contracts and reservations provided satisfactory proof of such amounts are provided by the employee and that such contracts and reservations are through public carriers and bona fide agencies.
Should an employee be called back to work while on his/her scheduled vacation, he/she shall be compensated at two times his/her regular rate of pay for the time worked or granted double time off at a future date at the discretion of the manager.
H3. Notwithstanding anything else herein contained, vacations for ice cream employees shall be subject to the following conditions: A maximum of five employees on vacation at one time and not more than two weeks vacation for any one employee during the period May 1st to October 1st unless agreed to by management.
I.	The Employer agrees that should a paid holiday occur during an employee’s vacation, such employee shall be compensated with an additional days pay or a day off in lieu of the holiday, the choice between the days pay or the day off to be at the discretion of the employee. If a day off is chosen, such day off must be scheduled within four months after the holiday in question unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Employer and the employee.
J.	Once the final vacation schedule is posted, there can be no changes by either party except by mutual consent other than emergency conditions when the needs of our customers shall be paramount.
ARTICLE 14 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Al. The overall Company workweek is Monday to Sunday inclusive. An individual’s workweek is within those days.
A2.	An individual workweek will be 5 days of 8 hours each or 4 days of 10 hours each.
A3.	The workweek will be posted showing the days to be worked and the days off.
Bl. Inside workers working a regular 5 day week will work:
April 16, 1998
20
a)	Monday to Friday inclusive
b)	8 hours per day
c)	when an employee works in excess of 8 hours per day, he/she will be paid at the rate of time and one half.
B2. Inside workers working the regular 5 day workweek above who are called in on Saturdays or Sundays will receive pay as scheduled below:
a)	Saturdays - time and one half
b)	Sundays - double time
Cl. Inside workers working a regular 4 day week will work:
a)	within Monday to Friday inclusive
b)	10 hours per day
c)	when an employee works more than 10 hours per day,
he/she will be paid at the rate of time and one half
C2. Inside workers working the regular 4 day work week above who are called in to work on their scheduled days off will be paid:
a)	on their scheduled single day off - time and one half
b)	Saturday - time and one half
c)	Sunday - double time
D1. Employees who by the nature of their jobs have a normal workweek other than the regular week in B (1) and C (1) above shall have two consecutive days off.
D2. When as a result of a shift change, an employee on a five day schedule must work six or more consecutive days, the 6th consecutive day of work will be paid at time and one half.
When as a result of a shift change, an employee on a four day schedule must work 5 or more consecutive days, the 5th consecutive day of work will be paid at time and one half.
This will not apply in cases where the change is made at the request of the employee.
It is mutually agreed that nothing in the foregoing shall imply the guarantee of a forty hour week.
E.	Employees working as in D (1) who are called in to work on their scheduled days off will be paid as follows:
1.	for the scheduled single day off on a 4 day work schedule - time and one half
2.	for the first of the 2 consecutive days off - time and one half
April 16, 1998
21
3.	for the second of the 2 consecutive days off - double time.
F.	All classified persons will be given seven (7) calendar days notice of a change of days off, unless mutually agreed between the employee and the Employer.
If a classified person is required to change their days off without the seven (7) calendar days notice, then he or she will be paid the premium rate of time and one half (11/2) or the applicable rate for off days worked without the appropriate notice, unless mutually agreed upon between the employee and Employer.
The scheduled days off will not be changed in any week containing a Statutory Holiday.
All classified persons will be given seven (7) calendar days notice of a shift change of more than three (3) hours.
If a classified person is required to change their shift without the required seven (7) days notice, then he or she will be paid the premium rate of time and one half (11/2) for all hours worked outside their regular shift for the days for which notice was not given, unless mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Employer.
All classified persons will be given twelve (12) hours notice of a shift change of three (3) hours or less.
If a classified person is required to change their shift without the required twelve (12) hours notice, then he or she will be paid the premium rate of time and one half (11/2) for all hours worked outside their regular shift hours for the day for which notice was not given, unless mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Employer.
G.	Inside workers working a 4 or 5 day week shall not work more than 16 continuous hours unless it is by mutual agreement between the employee and his/her supervisor.
HI. When overtime occurs during the regular workday, it shall be assigned to the person performing the work. If the employee wishes to be relieved from the overtime, the employee must inform his/her foreperson no less than one hour before the normal end of the shift, and, if a volunteer is available on the premises and is deemed qualified, that person will be substituted for that overtime. If no volunteer is available, the employee will be required to work to a maximum of one hour, no more than twice in any scheduled workweek. When a substitute performs the overtime, it shall not constitute an assignment under this section.
H2. If additional persons are required, the overtime will be offered to the senior qualified employee at work.
April 16, 1998
22
H3. If there are still insufficient volunteers at work, the overtime will be offered to the senior qualified person from the department who is off shift.
H4. If there are still insufficient volunteers, the overtime will be offered to the employees within the seniority group who are qualified to do the work.
H5. If there are still insufficient qualified volunteers to perform the work, casual workers who are able to perform the work may be used.
H6. If there are still insufficient qualified volunteers and casual workers, the junior qualified employee at work will be forced to work, such forcing will be on a rotating basis.
H7. If there are still insufficient qualified volunteers and casuals, and there is no qualified person at work, the junior qualified employee from within the department will be forced to work, such forcing will be on a rotating basis.
11.	When overtime is required other than above, that is on scheduled days off, volunteers who are qualified will be called for.
12.	The overtime will be assigned starting with the senior most qualified volunteer from the department.
13.	If there are insufficient qualified volunteers from within the department, the most senior qualified person on the Availability List will be assigned the overtime.
14.	Qualified unclassified Union workers will be assigned the overtime once the Availability List has been exhausted. Non-Union casuals will be called when there are insufficient Union volunteers.
15.	If there are still insufficient volunteers or casual workers, the junior qualified employee within the department will be forced to work on a rotating basis.
J.	Hourly paid workers and haulers that have regularly scheduled work starting between 4:00 p.m. and 10:59 p.m., will be paid a shift differential of 35 cents per hour for those hours. If their shift has regularly scheduled hours starting
between 11:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m., the shift differential will be 55 cents per hour for those hours.
K.	When an employee is required to report for duty, such employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of 4 hours pay at regular rate. (Premium pay when applicable.) It is understood that nothing in the provisions of this Agreement shall guarantee a forty hour week.
April 16, 1998
23
An employee must be able to report within a reasonable period of time.
L.	It is clearly understood that nothing in the foregoing shall prevent the Company from assigning a qualified workforce sufficient to meet the needs of the business.
M.	The regular workweek for all drivers (Bulk Tank Graders, Driver-Salespersons, Long Haul Drivers and Ice Cream Drivers) will be posted in the Appendix.
N.	This Article 14 is not applicable to Bulk Tank Graders and shall not affect the present schedule of work and days off.
ARTICLE 15 - RULES GOVERNING DRIVER SALESPERSONS
A.	It is mutually agreed that a driver salesperson’s duties shall consist of delivery of dairy products, and collecting payment for same. The Employer further agrees to provide adequate cashing-in facilities in order to permit driver salespersons to spend the least possible time in their prescribed settling of accounts.
B.	No driver salesperson shall be expected to clean the outside of his/her truck, but shall be responsible for keeping the cab of the vehicle clean and tidy.
C.	Upon proper evidence furnished by the employee, to the satisfaction of the Employer, allowance shall be made daily for all goods broken, spilled or soured.
D.	Order sheets, return and cashing sheets shall be in enough copies to supply both the Employer and the employee.
E.	Credit customers shall not be permitted unless authorized by the Employer. Where credit has been so authorized, responsibility therefore shall rest solely with the Employer.
F.	Each driver salesperson shall complete his/her daily return each day before leaving the premises of the Employer.
G.	All driver salespersons shall be furnished each week with a full report of all units sold and the total earnings of the week with all deductions, shortages, and overages indicated thereon. The Employer shall have an employee available during reasonable working hours who is able to assist any driver salesperson in finding a shortage.
H.	No driver salesperson shall start to deliver product before 4: 15 a.m. unless otherwise determined by the by-laws of the Municipality concerned.
April 16, 1998
24
I.	When wholesale customers are on regular routes of the salesperson (institutions, etc.) the Employer will give consideration to any request by the salesperson to include such accounts in his/her daily deliveries.
J.	Driver salespersons shall be permitted to transfer milk from one route to another and be credited and/or charged with the sale, providing both salespersons report the transaction on the day it occurs.
K.	The Company will endeavour at all times to keep any delay time during loading operations to a functional minimum for driver salespersons and also to monitor loading operations on a continual basis.
ARTICLE 16 - ROUTE CUTTING
A.	It is agreed that when a route is split into two or more routes, the driver whose route is split shall have the first choice as to which route he/she shall work.
B.	The route driver whose route is split shall receive a guaranteed minimum pay to be governed by the four (4) weeks sales average previous to the aforementioned split, for twenty-two weeks following the splitting of the route, with the understanding that the months of July and August shall not constitute the aforementioned four (4) week period, except where wages are higher during these months. Should an employee be absent from his/her route during the twenty-two (22) week period, the balance of the guarantee will be paid; week by week, during the weeks following his/her return to that route.
C.	In the event that through increased sales commission, the driver whose route is split is able to make a pay higher than the minimum guaranteed in Section "B" above, it is understood he/she shall be granted such increase.
D.	Should the Employer cut a route for the second time within a period of twelve (12) months, the salesperson concerned shall receive the guaranteed minimum outlined in this Article 16, Section "B".
E.	For the purpose of Sections A and B of this Article, a route will be considered to have been split when:
1.	It has been divided into two or more routes;
2.	A portion has been removed and placed on another existing route.
The guarantee shall not apply in the event that:
April 16, 1998
25
1.	The route is cut at the request of the employee;
2.	The customer is removed from a route at the request of the customer
3.	The customer is removed from a route, when in the opinion of the Company, such customer must be removed in order to prevent loss of sales to such customer.
F.	When a route is discontinued entirely or split and portions placed on existing routes, the salesperson whose route is discontinued shall be guaranteed their present earnings on any available route for twenty-two (22) weeks.
ARTICLE 17- WAGES
A.	It is agreed by both parties hereto that the wages, salaries, and other conditions outlined in the appendices shall be paid during the term of this Agreement, in addition to any other applicable clause.
B.	Barring machinery breakdown or Acts of God, the Company agrees to have the pay available by 2:00 p.m. at the latest, on Thursday. If a holiday falls on Thursday, the Company will endeavour to pay on Wednesday. The Employer agrees to pay employees on a weekly basis.
ARTICLE 18 - UNIFORMS
A.	The Employer agrees to supply yearly, free of charge, to plant employees as follows: four pairs of pants and four shirts or smocks for those employees wearing white clothing, three pairs of pants and three shirts for those employees wearing dark clothes, except for stationary engineers who will be supplied with four of each. The Employer may substitute coveralls, overalls or lab coats for white or dark clothes as long as the total issue (4 white and 3 dark) remains the same. It is understood that the substitution of one coverall, overall or lab coat will be for one pair of pants plus one shirt or one pair of pants plus one smock. Employees working in the cold room may substitute insulated pants in place of pants or overalls in place of pants and shirts. If plant employees require additional clothing before the next year’s supply is issued, they may bring in their old clothing and obtain replacements.
B.	Bulk Tank Graders, Long Haul Drivers and Driver Salespeople shall receive, each year, two pairs of trousers, three shirts and one hat. One windbreaker will be supplied in alternate years. A winter jacket will be supplied once every three years, the first jacket to be cost shared 50/50 with the employee. One pair of overalls or coveralls per year shall be supplied to Bulk Tank Graders and Long Haul Drivers if required.
C.	A winter jacket will be supplied to workers in the Bedford milk cold room once every
April 16, 1998
26
two years; the first jacket will be cost shared 50/50 with the employee.
D.	Appropriate winter suits will be provided to employees in the ice cream shipping area.
E.	The Employer agrees to provide four (4) pairs of coveralls to garage workers. Thermal coveralls shall be supplied for garage workers. Such coveralls shall be used only at work. The Employer agrees to supply yearly, free of charge, to garage employees as follows: four pants and four shirts for those employees wearing dark clothes. Such clothing shall be used only at work. If garage employees require additional clothing before next year’s supply is issued, they may bring in their old clothing and obtain replacements.
F.	The Middleton employee will be supplied with one pair of thermal coveralls for working on the exterior tank in cold weather. Such coveralls shall be used only at work.
G.	Where specialized clothing is required on an occasional basis, a reasonable supply will be made available for groups of employees.
H.	The employees shall maintain themselves and their clothing in a neat, tidy and clean condition at all times. Whites will be laundered by the Employer, and the Employer will not hold an employee responsible for the condition of his/her whites resulting from this laundering.
I.	The Employer will use its best efforts to ensure that employees receive their clothing allotment in October of each year.
J.	The Company will pay each year $90.00 plus the actual amount of HST reflected on the receipt toward the cost of approved safety footwear appropriate for the type of work being performed. In the case of employees in the ice cream shipping area, boots will be provided in lieu of the allowance. Footwear must remain on Company property, or be used in the performance of Company business.
K.	The Employer will provide a list of recommended boots. If an employee working in the cold room buys from the list, and the boots are destroyed within a year because of the environment in the cold room, the Employer will pay the boot allowance again if the employee replaces the boots.
ARTICLE 19 - ABSENCES
A. Union delegates and officers may be absent from work for Union business, but at their own expense and provided the Company has adequate relief available. The maximum
April 16, 1998
27
time off shall be twenty (20) working days per calendar year.
B.	Temporary Leave of Absence for Union Business:
Leave of Absence, without pay, for the purpose of attending Union schools, conventions, or conferences may be granted by the Company upon written request by the Union subject to the following conditions:
1.	Leave shall only be granted subject to the operational requirements of the business and the Company’s ability to locate suitable replacements.
2.	A maximum of three (3) employees shall be granted leave at any one time.
3.	A maximum number of days off that will be granted in a calendar year under this Article will be 100.
4.	If the employee is elected or appointed to a full time position with the CEP Union, Leave of Absence not to exceed six (6) months shall be granted.
5.	Employees granted such leave shall continue to accumulate seniority except that entitlement for vacation pay, sick days and Christmas Bonus shall be reduced by one fifty second (1/52) for each week of absence.
6.	Coverage under the Security Plan as described in Article 22 may be continued provided the employee or the Union pay the full cost of the coverage. Contribution to the retirement plan may also be continued for a period of up to six months provided the employee continues to pay their portion.
C.	The Employer agrees to grant all employees covered by this Agreement five (5) consecutive days off, commencing from the day after the death, without loss of pay upon the death of their father, mother, brother, sister, wife, husband, child, father-in-law, mother-inlaw, grandparents, grandchild or legal guardian. Should an employee require extra time off for purposes connected with the bereavement, it is agreed that such time off, up to a maximum of seven days, will be granted without pay, provided that such leave has been requested by the employee and granted by the Company. Time off without loss of pay, to a maximum of one (1) day, will be granted to attend the funeral of a sister-in-law, brother-inlaw and spouse’s grandparents.
The above shall apply to common-law relationships provided that the employee represents him/herself as married, the parties are co-habitant, and a statutory declaration is made to the company.
D.	An employee will not lose seniority as a result of absence from work provided that
April 16, 1998
28
such leave of absence has been requested in writing and permission has been granted by the Company in writing. Permission for such leave of absence shall not be unreasonably withheld.
E.	An employee who loses time from his/her regularly scheduled work as a result of jury service shall be paid his/her straight time earnings for the hours he/she would have otherwise worked if he/she turns over to the Company all payments received from the court in respect of the jury service. Time off for jury selection will be handled in accordance with the procedure attached.
ARTICLE 20 - BULLETIN BOARDS
A.	The Employer agrees to permit posting of any notices of Union meetings or other activities on a bulletin board conspicuously placed and provided for that purpose.
B.	Discreet areas will be made on existing bulletin boards for postings only. ARTICLE 21 - MEDICAL EXAMINATION
A.	Any medical examination required by the Employer shall be promptly complied with by all employees, provided, however, that the Employer be required to pay all expenses for such examination.
The Employer reserves the right to select their own medical examiner or physician, and the Union may, if in its opinion an injustice has been done, cause an employee to be re-examined at the Union’s expense, by its chosen examiner physician.
ARTICLE 22 - SECURITY PLAN	.
A.	The Employer and the employees agree to participate in maintaining a Security Plan involving Group Life Insurance, Dependent Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Medical Benefits, Vision Care, Long Term Disability Benefits, and Dental Care. The Employer agrees to discuss the benefits and costs of this Plan with the Union from time to time as may be required.
B.	Farmers Co-operative Dairy has established a Pension Plan. Membership in the Plan will be mandatory after two (2) years of service. Employees may apply earlier, on a voluntary basis, to join the Plan.
April 16, 1998
29
The Company agrees to have two (2) Union members sit on the Pension Committee. It must be clearly understood that these persons must agree to maintain as confidential, all personal information to which they may have access.
ARTICLE 23 - SICKNESS BENEFITS
A. In order for any employee to receive a sick day for a reason other than illness, they must make a request, in advance of such day, to the department supervisor. The request will be granted only where, in the opinion of the department supervisor or appropriate manager, the employee’s absence will not cause disruption to operations and a suitable replacement can be located.
Bl. The Company agrees to allow six (6) days (equivalent 48 hours for those on a five day work week or 50 hours for those on a 4 day work week) off with pay per year in case of sickness. On or about the last Friday in May of each year, the Employer will pay six (6) days pay to any employee who has not been paid for days off sick under this Article, and the difference between six (6) days pay and any days drawn on account of sickness in the case of all other employees. The above-mentioned sick days shall not be accumulative from year to year. It is understood that one day’s entitlement is equivalent to one fifth (1/5) or one fourth (1/4) of a basic weeks pay up to a maximum of 48 or 50 hours as applicable.
B2. New employees must have completed ten (10) continuous weeks service in order to qualify for their first sick day. Thereafter they will become eligible for one additional sick day after each ten (10) continuous weeks to a maximum of six (6) sick days per calendar year.
C.	Any employee claiming sickness benefits under this Article must produce a doctor’s certificate.
D.	The Employer may investigate any report of sickness by visiting the home of the employee reported sick, or by any other means. Any such visit may be made by any official of the Employer appointed for the purpose.
E.	It is understood and agreed between the Employer and the Union that a false report of sickness by any employee shall be grounds for discipline, up to and including dismissal of the employee, and any employee so disciplined shall also forfeit to the Employer any amount of sickness benefits otherwise payable to him/her.
F.	Any employee who leaves the employ of the Employer of his/her own accord, or is discharged and has received sickness pay under this Article in excess of the amount entitled, shall pay the Employer the amount of such excess, or the Employer may deduct the amount
April 16, 1998
30
of such excess from any amount owed to the employee by the Employer at the time the employee leaves or is discharged.
ARTICLE 24- GENERAL
A.	Any classified employee presently receiving more than the minimum wages now existing under the terms of this Agreement will not suffer a decrease through the signing of this Agreement, and any classified employee enjoying working conditions more favourable than those stipulated herein shall continue to enjoy same.
B.	Any classified employee who is temporarily transferred from his/her regular job to another job with a higher rate shall be paid the higher rate for the day worked on the higher rated job, provided the time worked is four hours or more per shift on the higher rated job. However, an employee who is temporarily transferred from his/her regular job to another job with a lower rate shall continue to receive his/her regular rate for all the time worked on such other job if this is done for management convenience.
C.	The Union maintains the privilege to negotiate with the Employer wage rates covering new types of work not established by this Agreement. In such cases, the rates agreed upon shall be effective as of the date the said work goes into effect. Should the parties be unable to agree as to the rate to be applied to that job classification, the Union shall have recourse to the Grievance Procedure at the second step.
D.	Employees shall not be permitted to engage in any other major occupation or business during the course of their employment if it interferes with their employment with Farmers Dairy.
E.	The Employer agrees to classify all employees in the bargaining unit and supply a copy of same to the Union.
F.	All employees in the bargaining unit shall receive an extra 1/12 of a weeks pay (guaranteed earnings plus full commissions where it applies), for each full continuous month of service terminating December 3 1st of each year, same to be given to the employee on December 18th or the nearest banking day, provided that the employee has not resigned or been discharged prior to December 3 1st.
G.	Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article 24, the Employer and the employees agree that Garage workers are to supply their own tools subject to the following exceptions:
The Company agrees to cost share on the purchase of tools to a maximum cost of $400. Upon presentation of purchase receipts equal to half this
April 16, 1998
31
amount on or before April 15th, the Company will reimburse the tool costs to a maximum of $270.
H.	A supper break is to be optional for any employee working one hour or more overtime, such option to be exercised by a production unit as a whole after a vote by a show of hands of the employees in the production unit and the majority of those voting shall carry the decision.
I.	The Employer agrees to provide adequate lunchroom facilities for all employees who are employed during a meal period. In particular, the Employer agrees to provide sufficient tables and chairs and an adequate eating area for employees working through the evening meal and between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
J.	If an employee makes a written request to the Employer, all records and correspondence in that employee’s file shall be made available for that employee to see.
The Company agrees that letters of discipline will be null and void after two (2) years provided:
a)	there is no repeat of the matter disciplined for
b)	no violence
c)	no illegal acts that pertain to Company personnel and/or property
Letters of discipline that involve alcohol or drugs will be null and void after three years provided there is no repeat of the matter disciplined for.
K.	Any employee who is required to appear as a witness by the Company, or its agents acting on the Company’s behalf, shall not suffer a loss of regular wages as a result.
L.	Lead Hands will be appointed from time to time at the discretion of management to assist in the maintenance of the proper flow of work.
M.	If an employee is injured at work and requires medical attention, and the attending physician advises that he/she may not return to work that day, the Company will pay his/her wages for the remainder of the regular work day.
ARTICLE 25 - SAFETY
A. It is the desire of the Company and the Union to maintain high standards of safety in order to continue to eliminate, insofar as possible, industrial accidents and illness. There is hereby established a safety committee consisting of not less than four (4) members, two of
April 16, 1998
32
whom shall be management employees and two of whom shall be Union employees.
The Committee will determine their own terms of reference, frequency of meetings and inspection tours, and will post the terms of reference as agreed to between Union and Management.
B.	All reports and recommendations and a written statement of the action taken thereon shall be kept by the safety committee as a permanent record and shall at all times be available to any member of the committee. A written report of Safety Committee Meetings is to be posted.
C.	Where an employee alleges that a machine or equipment is unsafe to operate, the employee may ask for an immediate determination of this by his/her Foreperson and be entitled to have a decision within two (2) hours. If the matter is not settled to the employee’s satisfaction, the employee shall refer it to the Safety Committee for determination.
ARTICLE 26 - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
A. Each full time employee who ceases to be a full time employee of the Company by reason of the permanent closing of a department, by the introduction of labour saving equipment, or a permanent layoff for a reduction in the work force, shall be entitled to a severance allowance as follows:
Less than 2 years service -2-5 years 5-10 years 10-15 years 15-20 years 20 - 25 years
25 years and over of service -
3 weeks 5 weeks 7 weeks 11 weeks 13 weeks 15 weeks 19 weeks
B. Employees who are laid off may elect to receive a severance allowance under this Article 26 either at the time of the layoff or after their recall rights under 9L have expired.
C.	An employee who requests payment of the severance allowance or receives it after his/her recall rights have expired shall have his/her employment with the Company terminated and shall have no further rights under this Agreement.
April 16, 1998
33
ARTICLE 27 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
A.	Technological change means the introduction of equipment different in nature from that previously utilized that results in a reduction in manpower requirements. Should such technological change occur, a Joint Committee will be reconstructed to deal with:
1.	retraining;
2.	transfers on a voluntary basis to vacant positions with the	Company;
3.	any other such remedies as may be appropriate.
The Committee will be advisory in nature and not executive.
B.	The Company will endeavour to make every effort to avoid layoffs.
ARTICLE 28 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
A.	This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from the April 16, _1998-ta October 24. 1998 and shall automatically renew itself on each anniversary date unless, within the period of two months prior to October 24,1998 or any subsequent October 24th thereafter one of the parties hereto notifies the other, in writing, of its intentions to revise, amend or conclude a new Collective Agreement.
B.	The Company and Union agree that all prior Letters of Understanding are void upon signing of this Collective Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE HERETO SIGNED:
April 16, 1998
34
WAGES APPENDIX “A” - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE
METRO WHOLESALE ROUTES
per equivalent litre on all sales per equivalent litre on all sales above 7500 litres when 8500 litre sales reached
Routes averaging in excess of 8500 equivalent litres over a fiscal month to receive bonus on all litres over 7500 per week. All bonuses to be paid monthly by cheque.
Commission $ .02 1/2 Bonus	.01
Driving Allowance
Up to - 9,999 litres
10.000	- 12,999 litres
13.000	- Up litres
Holiday Pay -
Up to 9,999 litres 10,000- 11,499 litres 11,500- 12,499 litres 12,500 and over
EFFECTIVE OCT. 28/96
$435.77
$425.77
$415.77
If not required to work
$70.00
$75.00
$80.00
$95.00
of prior fiscal month.
If required to work
$340.97
$360.71
$370.70
$390.47
Driving allowance is calculated by averaging weekly sales Guaranteed Earnings	$615.77
The regular work week for driver salespeople shall consist of either five (5) days or four (4) days per week. Driver salespeople who work five days per week may be required to work Saturdays as regular working days and have another day as their day off in addition to Sunday.
Driver salespeople who work four days per week, shall work three days on a scheduled route, the fourth day to be worked as assigned. The delivery schedules will fall within Monday to Saturday inclusively.
April 16, 1998
CHAIN ROUTES
EFFECTIVE Oct. 28/96
35
Commission S .02 per equivalent case (equiv. litres divided by 16)
Driving Allowance	$588.48
Days of work - 5 per week
The regular workweek for Chain Store Driver Salespeople shall consist of five days per week. The delivery schedules will fall within Monday to Saturday inclusively.
DEFINITION OF AN EQUIVALENT LITRE - 1 litre of product sold by fluid measure -1 kilogram of product sold by weight
METRO SPARE DRIVERS
EFFECTIVE Oct. 28/96
Rate of Pay	$615.77
The regular workweek for spare drivers will normally consist of five days. When a Spare Driver is covering a four day route for a full week, his regular work for that week shall consist of four days.
If a spare driver is removed from his/her scheduled duties after starting such for that day and is assigned a regular route, he/she will be paid time and one half for all hours worked in excess of the hours required to complete the regular route that he/she is assigned on that day.
Additional Lump Sum (Daily)
1. Chain Route	$10.00
2.	Wholesale Route
up to 10,999 L	$26.00
11.000	-11,999	$33.00
12.000	- 12,999	$40.00
13.000	and over	$45.00
3.	Ice Cream Route	$10.00
April 16, 1998
SPECIAL DELIVERY DRIVERS (MILK AND ICE CREAM)
36
Rate of Pay	$595.02
The work week for special delivery drivers shall be forty (40) hours performed in five (5) days of eight (8) hours each and they shall receive two consecutive days off, one of which will be Sunday.
Overtime work, of a nature generally conceded to be that required of the special delivery drivers, will first be assigned by seniority to this group of employees. Should a volunteer from this group not be available, the work will go to the most senior volunteer in the Metro Wholesale group of drivers.
DRIVERS HELPERS	EFFECTIVE
Oct. 28/96
Rate of Pay
$479.29
RURAL WHOLESALE ROUTES
Commission $ .0 1 per unit wholesale .02 per unit retail
Driving Allowance
DEFINITION OF A UNIT -
$589.56
1 litre or its equivalent of all fluid products except
cream and blend = .88 of a unit
250 mL Blend = .44 of a unit
250 mL Whipping = .88 of a unit
500 mL Blend = .88 of a unit
500 mL 18% = 1.10
500 mL Whipping = 1.76
1 pound of spread or margarine
500 gm yogourt = 1.654 units
1 - 4 litre bag of spring water = 1.75 units
Juice equivalents as provided to drivers
RURAL SPARE DRIVERS
$606.49
April 16, 1998
37
WAGES APPENDIX "B” - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE
METRO ICE CREAM	EFFECTIVE
Oct. 28/96
Driving Allowance	$599.40
Commission $ .01 per equivalent litre
METRO ICE CREAM CHAIN ROUTE
Driving Allowance	$462.92
Commission $ .01 per equivalent litre
RURAL ICE CREAM
Driving Allowance	$605.94
Plus in each year 1% (one per cent) of all sales to regular customers made by driver salespeople including cash and credit sales.
RURAL SEASONAL ICE CREAM
Driving Allowance	$583.56
Plus in each year 1% (one per cent) of all sales to regular customers made by driver salespeople including cash and credit sales.
ICE CREAM SPARE DRIVERS
Rate of Pay
$606.49
April 16, 1998
38
WAGES APPENDIX "CM - DAIRY DIVISION/1CE CREAM DIVISION
PROCESSOR
ASEPTIC PROCESSOR
FLOATER OPERATOR (must be able to perform 90% of all duties within the Department)
SHIPPER OPERATOR (holding valid Forklift License)
MACHINE OPERATOR
SANITATION OPERATOR
LABOURER
QUALITY CONTROL
STOCKROOM
PACKAGER
UNCLASSIFIED
EFFECTIVE Oct. 28/96
PER HR. $16.28 $15.68 $16.24
$15.13
$15.28
$15.13
$15.13
$14.87
$14.87
$14.41
$14.27
$14.87
April 16, 1998
39
WAGES APPENDIX "D" - MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATION INDUSTRIAL MECHANICS (I.M.) CLASSIFICATIONS
EFFECTIVE Oct. 28/96
PER HR.
I.M. Entry Level I.M. Level 1 I.M. Level 2 I.M. Level 3 I.M. Level 4 I.M. Level 5 I.M. Level 6 I.M. Level 7 I.M. Level 8 I.M. Grandfathered
$15.39
$15.66
$15.94
$17.16
$18.67
$19.21
$19.63
$20.02
$20.44
$17.16
ELECTRICIAN CLASSIFICATIONS
Electrician Level 1	$ 19.07
Electrician Level 2	$19.63
Electrician Level 3	$20.02
Electrician Level 4	$20.44
WELDER CLASSIFICATIONS
Welder Level 1	$18.12
Welder Level 2	$18.53
Welder Level 3	$18.94
DEFINITIONS OF MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATIONS INDUSTRIAL MECHANIC (I.M.I QUALIFICATIONS
(a)	I.M. Entry Level	- Graduate of N.S. Vocational School or other
institution or experience recognized by the Company; and
- Qualified to enter N.S. Dept, of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program
April 16, 1998
40
(b) I.M. Level 1
(c) I.M. Level 2
(d) I.M. Level 3
(e) I.M. Level 4
(f) I.M. Level 5
(g) I.M. Level 6
(h) I.M. Level 7
-	Successful completion of first year of N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and
-	2000 hours worked in the Industrial
Mechanics trade
-	Successful completion of second year of N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and
-	4000 hours worked in the Industrial
Mechanics trade
-	Successful completion of third year of N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and
-	6000 hours worked in the Industrial
Mechanics trade
-	Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and
-	8000 hours worked in the Industrial
Mechanics trade
-	Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade; and further upon completion of 72 months, Farmers Inplant Experience (F.I.E.) in any Industrial Mechanics classification or upon completion of 24 months F.I.E. in the Level 4 Industrial Mechanic classification
-	Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in Industrial Mechanics trade; and further upon completion of 96 months F.I.E. in any Industrial Mechanics classification or upon completion of 24 months F.I.E. in the Industrial Mechanics Level 5 classification
-	Successful completion of fourth year N.S.
April 16, 1998
41
Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade; and further upon completion of 120 months F.I.E. in any Industrial Mechanics classification or upon completion of 36 months F.I.E. in the Industrial Mechanics Level 6 classification
(i)	I.M. Level 8	- Successful completion of fourth year N.S.
Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade; and further upon completion of 144 months F.I.E. in any Industrial Mechanics classification or upon completion of 36 months F.I.E. in the Industrial Mechanics Level 7 classification
(j)	I.M. Grandfathered Individuals - Keith Gammon
Vic Power Bill Benight
ELECTRICIAN
QUALIFICATIONS
(a) Electrician Level 1
(b) Electrician Level 2
(c) Electrician Level 3
(d) Electrician Level 4
Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Electrician Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Electrical trade
Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Electrician Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Electrical trade; and further upon completion of 36 months Farmers Inplant Experience (F.I.E.) in the Electrician Level 1 classification
Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Electrician Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Electrical trade; and further upon completion of 36 months F.I.E. in the Electrician Level 2 classification
Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Electrician
April 16, 1998
42
WELDER
(a) Welder Level 1
(b) Welder Level 2
(c) Welder Level 3
Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Electrical trade; and further upon completion of 48 months F.I.E. in the Electrician Level 3 classification
QUALIFICATIONS
-	8000 hours worked in the Welding trade and must be able to pass Company and Government inspections (may include x-ray) for quality of sanitary stainless steel welds
-	Upon completion of 24 months Farmers
Inplant Experience (F.I.E.) in the Welder Level 1 classification
-	Upon completion of 36 months F.I.E. in the Welder Level 2 classification
1. An employee in any Maintenance classification shall be immediately reclassified upon successful completion of the requirements listed in the classification schedule.
2.	(a) The following courses will be offered to individuals in Industrial Mechanics
or Power and Refrigeration Technician classifications:
Basic Stick Welding Basic Electronics Hydraulics Pneumatics Forklift Mechanics
Tetra Pak TBA 9, Mechanic Level 1 Course Tetra Pak P.L.E., Mechanic Course Tetra Rex Mechanic Course Machinist
Plus designated future courses as requirements dictate
(b)	All employees in Industrial Mechanics and Power and Refrigeration Technicians classifications, with the exception of those employees in the I.M. Grandfathered classification, shall be required to complete three (3) of the above mentioned courses as determined by the employer.
Any courses in excess of the three (3) mandatory courses will be offered on a voluntary basis, with seniority, plant requirements, rotation, degree of relevance being used to determine who shall attend courses.
(c)	All employees in Electrician classifications will be required to complete both the Allen Bradley P.L.C. train Level 1 and Square D P.L.C. training Level 1 course within two years from date of hire. It shall be the responsibility of the
April 16, 1998
43
employer to schedule these courses.
(d)	All employees in Electrician classifications will receive an extra $3.75 per week per course/block completed for the following courses:
. Journeyman Instrumentation (max. one employee)
. Journeyman Electronic Repair (max. two employees)
This payment will not be considered as part of the employees base rate, rather it will be paid as a “lump sum payment”.
(e)	The employer shall continue to cover the registration costs for all mandatory courses and shall continue to cover the costs of airfare, lodging and living expenses (as per company policy) for Tetra Pak and Square D P.L.C. courses given off-site.
3.	Employees in Industrial Mechanic classifications (up to a maximum of two) may by the nature of their jobs, be required to work a normal work week other than the regular work week described in Article 14 B or C( 1) and in this case, shall have two consecutive days off, one of which shall be Saturday or Sunday.
April 16, 1998
44
WAGES APPENDIX "E" - GARAGE
EFFECTIVE Oct. 28/96
PER HOUR
JOURNEYMAN BUS AND TRANSPORT (Heavy Duty With 8 Years Experience)
JOURNEYMAN MECHANIC (Includes Reefer)
JOURNEYMAN BODYMAN
BODY AND FENDER (No Papers)
MECHANIC APPRENTICE
1st six months 50%
2nd six months 55%
3rd six months 60%
4th six months 65%
5th six months 70%
6th six months 75%
7th six months 80%
8th six months 90%
TRUCK SERVICE
EQUIPMENT MOVER
It is understood that attainment of Journeyman’s papers will automatically create a reclassification. Journeymen must be able to qualify under flat rate.
It is understood that Journeymen will continue to function as they now do, and that any classification may be required to perform work in any other classification where qualified.
When a garage employee is called in to work, such employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours pay at regular rate, or premium rate if applicable. At the time of the call, the employee shall be advised of the nature and extent of the work required and an estimate of completion time. Should this employee report to work and find that there is additional work, other than that related in the initial call, the employee may elect to call his superior and request that another employee be called for this additional work. In this case, the first
$18.13
$16.96
$16.96
$15.96
$8.78
$9.65
$10.53
$11.40
$12.28
$13.16
$14.04
$15.79
$14.87
$14.00
April 16, 1998
45
employee shall be paid only for the time actually worked and the second employee is entitled to the four (4) hour call-in pay. It is understood that a second employee must be available before the first can be released from the requirement to complete the additional work.
April 16, 1998
46
WAGES APPENDIX »F" - MIDDLETON
CLASSIFICATION
Machine Operator Plant Labourer Maintenance (1) Maintenance (2) Electrician Stationary Engineer Shipper Operator
EFFECTIVE Oct. 28/96
PER HOUR
$15.23
$14.87
$15.13
$14.87
$15.76
$15.36
$15.23
April 16, 1998
47
WAGES APPENDIX "G" - BULK TANK DRIVERS
1.	The regular workweek of a Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operator shall consist of picking up milk from farms on an assigned route or routes for periods averaging five days per week throughout the year. Such routes to be agreed upon by the Company and the Union representative upon origination and before subsequent adjustments are made.
2.	The present system of alternating days of work shall continue during the term of the Collective Agreement.
3.	The Company will attempt to schedule runs to average 40 hours per week. Where this is not practical, overtime will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week.
4.	If a Bulk Tank Grader is required to work on a scheduled rest day, he will be paid as follows for the actual hours worked:
5 day work schedule - first day at time and one half
second day at double time if first day off worked
4 day work schedule - first day at time and one half
second day at time and one half
third day at double time if first and second day off worked
5.	Any Bulk Pick-up Truck Operator required to perform work other than his regular workweek shall be reimbursed for expenses for meals and lodgings incurred as a result of the requirements of this extra work.
6.	Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operators will forfeit the privilege of taking trucks home at night at the discretion of the Company.
7.	Any Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operator who shall work Sunday, and that day being one of their regular five (5) days of work, shall be paid an extra one tenth (1/1 0) of their regular weekly pay for the day in question.
BULK TANK GRADER
EFFECTIVE Oct. 28/96
Bulk Tank Grader
Tractor-Trailer	$611.41
Bulk Tank Grader	608.68
April 16, 1998
48
WAGES APPENDIX "H" - HAULERS
EFFECTIVE Oct. 28/96
PER HOUR
HAULERS	
(Tractor-Trailer)	$15.29
HAULERS	$15.03
(Straight Truck)	
PER WEEK
MODIFIED LONG HAUL	$687.82
Plus Commission of 20 per equivalent case for Chainstore deliveries
April 16, 1998
49
WAGES APPENDIX “T” - MERCHANDISERS - FULL TTME
EFFECTIVE Oct. 28/96
PER HOUR
Full time Merchandisers -
1. The regular work week for a full time merchandiser shall be 40 hours per week.
2.	Full time Merchandisers shall receive time and one half (11/2) for work performed in excess of 40 hours in one week.
3.	The Employer will supply to the full-time merchandisers each year four pairs of pants and three shirts. If full-time merchandisers require additional clothing before the next year’s supply is issued, they may bring in their old clothing and obtain replacements.
The Employer will pay each year $90.00 plus the actual amount of HST reflected on the receipt toward the cost of approved safety footwear appropriate for the type of work being performed. Such footwear must be used in the performance of Company business.
4.	A driving allowance of $0.29 per kilometre shall be paid to merchandisers for the distance required to be driven between stores.
5.	A maximum of two employees shall be granted vacation at any one time and no vacation shall be granted during the period of December 1st to January 1st.
6.	Full time Merchandisers shall be exempt from Article 14 and 18.
April 16, 1998
50
APPENDIX “J” - MERCHANDISERS - PART TIME
EFFECTIVE Oct. 28/96
PER HOUR
Part time Merchandisers -	$8.19
1.	Part time Merchandisers shall work 24 or less hours averaged over a 4 week period. This provision shall not apply during the period of December 1 st - January 10th and May 15th - September 15th, or when they are replacing an employee who is on vacation, sick or injured, or on leave of absence when their hours may exceed the 24 hour limit.
2.	The seniority for each part time merchandiser shall be established after a probationary period of 200 working hours and shall be calculated for days worked with the company.
3.	Part time merchandisers shall be eligible for statutory holiday pay for the number of hours they would have worked if such holiday is part of their regular schedule, provided they report for work their scheduled day before and their scheduled day after.
Part time merchandisers shall be paid at a rate of time and one half their regular rate of all hours worked on a holiday.
4.	Vacation pay for part time merchandisers will be 4% of their previous years earnings (May-May). Vacation pay will be paid each May.
5.	Christmas bonus will be paid to part time merchandisers in the amount of $100.00.
6.	The Employer will supply to the part-time merchandisers on hiring one pair of pants and one shirt, and will supply additional pants and shirts if required to a maximum of four pairs of pants and three shirts each year. If part-time merchandisers require additional clothing before the next year’s supply is issued, they may bring in their old clothing and obtain replacements,
The Employer will pay each year $45.00 plus the actual amount of HST reflected on the receipt toward the cost of approved safety footwear appropriate for the type of work being performed. Part-time merchandisers may utilize their receipt from each purchase of safety footwear in each of two consecutive years in order to recover the full $90.00 allowance over a two-year period, however the HST will be reimbursed only once. Such footwear must be used in the performance of Company business.
7.	A driving allowance of $0.29 per kilometre shall be paid to merchandisers for the distance required to be driven between stores.
April 16, 1998
51
Part time merchandisers shall be exempt from Article 8, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 22, 23 and 24 F,
In the case of a part time merchandiser who moves into a full time position, he/she shall be entitled to the provisions of the Collective Agreement which apply to full time employees.
Any full-time employees who exercise his/her seniority rights by bumping into a parttime merchandiser position shall not lose entitlement to the provisions of Article 22A for a period of four (4) months from the day they become a part time merchandiser.
April 16, 1998
52
APPENDIX "K" - BOILER ROOM
CLASSIFICATION QUALIFICATIONS
RATE OF PAY
EFFECTIVE Oct. 28/96
Stationary Engineer	4th Class Stationary
Level 1	Engineer - Boiler ticket
and 2nd Class Stationary Engineer - Refrigeration ticket
$17.48
3rd Class Stationary Engineer - Boiler ticket and 1st Class Stationary Engineer - Refrigeration ticket
Stationary Engineer Level 1 classification minimum
Journeyman Industrial Mechanics ticket plus 4th Class Stationary Engineer - Boiler ticket and 2nd Class Stationary Engineer - Refrigeration ticket
1.	An employee in any Stationary Engineering classification shall be immediately reclassified upon successful completion of the requirements listed in the classification schedule.
It is understood that automatic re-classification does not apply for the Power and Refrigeration Technician position unless a vacancy exists.
2.	Employees in stationary Engineer classifications who are required to work twelve (12) continuous hour shifts shall work a 3 on/3 off shift format, alternating with a day and night rotation. The regular hours of work for the twelve (12) hour continuous shift schedule shall be spread over six (6) consecutive weeks, that is three (3) weeks of thirty six (36) hours and three (3) weeks of forty eight (48) hours.
Stationary Engineer Level 2
Stationary Engineer Spare
Power and Refrigeration Technician
$19.16
appropriate rate plus 500 per hr.
appropriate rate as per Industrial Mechanics Classification F.I.E. schedule (appendix D) plus $20.00 lump sum payment.
April 16, 1998
53
3.	The work week for all employees covered by the classifications in this appendix starts at 0600 hours Sunday and ends the following Sunday at 0600 hours.
4.	(a) Any work performed in excess of regular scheduled hours of work shall
constitute overtime and shall be paid at one and one-half times the employee’s straight time classified rate.
(b) Employees in Stationary Engineer classifications who are required to work on their scheduled days off shall be paid
(i)	at one and one half times the employees straight time classified rate for all hours worked on their first and second scheduled days off
(ii)	at two times the employee’s straight time classified rate for all hours worked on their third scheduled day off
5.	Any employee(s) whose schedule calls for him/her to work on a holiday as defined in Article 12 A, shall be the person who works that holiday and shall be paid as per Article 12.
When a paid holiday occurs on an employees scheduled day off and the employee is not required to work, he/she shall be paid the applicable hours that are called for in their schedule.
6.	For the purpose of determining the sickness benefits as described in Article 23, it is understood that those employees working the twelve (12) continuous hour shifts shall be eligible for a maximum of 50 hours under this entitlement.
7.	Employees covered by the classifications in this appendix shall be eligible to receive shift differential as described in Article 14J.
8.	For the purpose of Article 13 B(5)(i) and Article 24 F, the number of hours in an employee’s work week shall be assumed to be forty (40).
9.	Employees covered by the classifications in this appendix shall be exempt from Article 12 E and Article 14 unless otherwise specified.
10.	Employees will be paid for hours actually worked in each workweek (ie. 36 or 48 straight time hours).
April 16, 1998
54
APPENDIX “L” - DRIVER BUMPING CRITERIA
CLASS 03
■ must be 19 years of age or older
•	must have a valid Nova Scotia drivers license for at least 3 years
•	must provide satisfactory medical and optical report prior to training
•	must provide a recent driving abstract from the Nova Scotia Registry of Motor vehicles to be reviewed by the Distribution Supervisor/Trainer
•	must comply with current and future pre-requisites for commercial drivers as outlined in the Provincial Safety Code
•	candidates for driver training will be assessed by a qualified Trainer to ensure that they demonstrate the ability to obtain a license within a reasonable period of time
CLASS 01 (excludes bulk tank - live loads)
•	must be 19 years of age or older
•	must have a valid class 03 Nova Scotia license with air brake endorsement
•	must have at least one year of experience in operating a vehicle registered in excess of 14,000 kg during the past 2 years
■	must provide satisfactory medical and optical reports prior to training
■	must provide a recent driving abstract from the Nova Scotia Registry of Motor Vehicles to be reviewed by the Distribution Supervisor/Trainer
■	must comply with current and future pre-requisites for commercial drivers as outlined in the Provincial Safety Code
■	candidates for driver training will be assessed by a qualified Trainer to ensure that they demonstrate the ability to obtain a license within a reasonable period of time
■	a newly licensed class 01 driver will be required to perform 160 hours on the road training with an experienced driver prior to operating a Farmers vehicle
CLASS 01 - Bulk Tank (Live Load)
•	must be 19 years of age or older
•	must have a valid class 01 Nova Scotia license with air brake endorsement
•	must have at least 3 years of experience (minimum 200 hundred hours per year)	in
operating a vehicle requiring class 01 license during the past 4 years
■	must provide satisfactory medical and optical reports prior to training
■	must provide a recent driving abstract from the Nova Scotia Registry of Motor Vehicles to be reviewed by the Distribution Supervisor/Trainer
■	must comply with current and future pre-requisites for commercial drivers as outlined in the Provincial Safety Code
■	candidates for the driver training will be assessed by a recognized training institute to ensure that they demonstrate the ability to haul ‘live loads’
■	candidates will be required to perform 160 hours on the road training with an experienced “bulk tank” driver prior to operating a Farmers vehicle carrying ‘live loads’
April 16, 1998
55
ADDENDUM TO COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
FARMERS CO-OPERATIVE DAIRY LIMITED
AND
ENERGY AND CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION LOCAL 40
DATED APRIL 20,1990
The parties agree that the following two items form part of the Agreement:
1.	When there is a work shortage in the Ice Cream Department, the Company will endeavour to give a minimum average of forty hours of work per week for the six most senior persons in the Department unless they prefer a lay-off.
2.	The Company will recognize a union negotiating committee limited to five (5) employee/members and will pay these employees at regular time for wages lost, during direct bargaining sessions, up to a maximum of two hundred and fifty (250) hours for the Committee.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
April 16, 1998
56
RAIN GEAR POLICY
Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited agrees to supply adequate rain gear to applicable employees provided they read over the following policy and sign, if agreed, at the bottom of the page.
1.	All rain gear is the property of Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited and will be used for work related duties only.
2.	Tom or damaged rain gear will be repaired or replaced by Farmers provided the items are returned to the supervisor. Lost or stolen items will be the responsibility of the employee and will, therefore, be replaced immediately by them.
3.	A signed copy of the issue will be given to the employee, their supervisor and Personnel for their file.
4.	Should an employee terminate employment with Farmers Dairy, the gear shall be returned to the supervisor before they issue the employee’s final pay.
Issue: _____________________________________________________
Received by: ______________________________ Date:
Authorized by: ____________________________ Date:
April 16, 1998
57
MAINTENANCE POLICY STATEMENT
Farmers Co-operative Dairy is committed to the ultimate goal of having all personnel in Maintenance classifications attain journeyman status through the Nova Scotia Department of Labour Apprentice Training Program. To facilitate this, Farmers Dairy will sign an Apprentice Training Agreement for any employee in a Maintenance classification who is interested in completing their apprenticeship. Every individual (with the exception of those Grandfathered individuals) in a Maintenance classification below journeymen status must enrol in the Apprentice Program, and also sign a letter of intent outlining their desire to complete their apprenticeship and abide by the following conditions.
1.	An individual who fails to pass a block examination after attending course for two times may be dropped from the Apprentice Program and at that time will have their position at Farmers Dairy re-assessed in discussions between management and the union.
2.	An individual who fails to pass a block examination and then fails to attend two consecutive offerings of the same block without a valid reason acceptable to management, may be dropped from the Apprentice Program and at that time will have their position at Farmers Dairy re-assessed in discussions between management and the union.
In return, Farmers Dairy agrees that the following conditions shall be in force for those individuals who enrol in the Apprentice Program:
1.	Any individual interested in attending a block course shall make a request in writing to the Company in reasonable time before its offering. When more than one individual applies to attend a block course at the same time and conflict exists, seniority, rotation, and the length of time since last attending a block course will be used to determine who shall attend.
2.	As a means of support for those individuals that are going on course during their Apprenticeship, Farmers will offer a monetary bonus for those who successfully complete each block. This bonus will be equal to the two weeks pay which were lost awaiting U.I.C. benefits to begin, plus a “topping off’ amount equal to the difference between what is received as weekly gross wages from U.I.C. and what is a current week (40 hrs.) pay for that individual for each of the remaining weeks on course, The bonus will be paid upon notification of successful completion of the course. Those who fail to pass the block examination will not be eligible for the bonus.
Should an individual leave the employment of the Dairy within one year after receipt of their bonus, they would agree to repay the bonus in an amount equal to 1/12th of the total for each month remaining to reach one year. (For example, if an individual left after 5 months of receiving their bonus, they would have to repay 7/12ths of the total.)
3.	Any writing of block examination credits for third or forth level without prior course
April 16, 1998
58
attendance must have approval in writing by the Company.
4.	All participants in the Apprentice Program will supply the tools listed in Schedule A (attached). Each mechanic will be given a yearly tool allowance of $200.00 upon presentation of purchase receipts equal to half the allowance, on or before April 15th of each year. This allowance is to be used to purchase relevant tools.
It is agreed that this policy will remain in full force and effect during the term of the Collective Agreement dated____________________________
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
DATE
April 16. 1998
59
GARAGE POLICY STATEMENT
Farmers Co-operative Dairy is committed to the ultimate goal of having all personnel in applicable garage classifications attain journeyman status through the Nova Scotia Department of Labour Apprentice Training Program. To facilitate this, Farmers Dairy will sign an Apprentice Training Agreement for any employee in an applicable garage classification who is interested in completing their apprenticeship. Every individual in an applicable garage classification below journeymen status must enrol in the Apprentice Program, and also sign a letter of intent outlining their desire to complete their apprenticeship and abide by the following conditions.
1.	An individual who fails to pass a block examination after attending course for two times may be dropped from the Apprentice Program and at that time will have their position at Farmers Dairy re-assessed in discussions between management and the union.
2.	An individual who fails to pass a block examination and then fails to attend two consecutive offerings of the same block without a valid reason acceptable to management, may be dropped from the Apprentice Program and at that time will have their position at Farmers Dairy re-assessed in discussions between management and the union,
In return, Farmers Dairy agrees that the following conditions shall be in force for those individuals who enrol in the Apprentice Program:
As a means of support for those individuals that are going on course during their Apprenticeship, Farmers will offer a monetary bonus for those who successfully complete each block. This bonus will be equal to the two weeks pay which were lost awaiting U.I.C. benefits to begin, plus a “topping off’ amount equal to the difference between what is received as weekly gross wages from U.I.C. and what is a current week (40 hrs.) pay for that individual for each of the remaining weeks on course. The bonus will be paid upon notification of successful completion of the course. Those who fail to pass the block examination will not be eligible for the bonus.
Should an individual leave the employment of the Dairy within one year after receipt of their bonus, they would agree to repay the bonus in an amount equal to 1/12th of the total for each month remaining to reach one year. (For example, if an individual left after 5 months of receiving their bonus, they would have to repay 7/12ths of the total.)
It is agreed that this policy will remain in full force and effect during the term of the Collective Agreement dated___________________________
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
DATE
April 16, 1998
60
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This letter will confirm our understanding reached at negotiations with respect to “split shifts”.
The present use of split shifts shall remain in practice at the distribution branches. It is not the intent of the company to extend this practice to Bedford operations.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
DATE
April 16, 1998
61
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm our agreement reached at negotiations regarding the distribution of work on holidays recognized in Article 12.
Work which occurs on these holidays should be offered to the senior qualified employee in the department. Should the senior employee in the department not wish to work, the work will be offered to the next senior qualified employee and so on. Should additional employees be required the work will be offered by seniority to qualified employees within the seniority group. Should additional employees be required the work will be offered by seniority to qualified employees within the branch. Should no qualified employee wish to work the holiday and no suitable student or casual replacement can be found, the junior qualified employee will be forced to work. Forcing employees to work will be done on a rotating basis, for example, the junior employee forced to work on one holiday will not be forced to work the next.
The exception to this procedure will be the Bulk Tank Hauling Department who will continue to follow their current procedures for assigning work on holidays.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UN-ION:
DATE
April 16, 1998
62
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
An employee who returns to work after an absence due to illness or injury within the time limits laid out in Article 8(E) (1) shall return to his/her same job provided he/she is able to perform the work. An employee who returns after these time limits have expired, or within the time limits but is unable to perform their former job, will displace a junior employee in his/her former department providing they can perform the required work satisfactorily. Should he/she not be able to perform the work of a junior employee in their former department, they will displace a junior employee in their seniority group, providing they can perform the required work satisfactorily. Should he/she not be able to perform the work of the junior employee in their seniority group, they will displace a junior employee in the branch, providing they can perform the required work satisfactorily. In either case, the employee who is displaced may exercise his/her seniority rights as per Article 9 (J) of the Collective Agreement.
In the event that an employee is unable to perform any of the positions as described above, management and the union shall meet to discuss what alternative options might be available to the employee.
An employee’s eligibility to perform the required work satisfactorily shall be determined by:
the employee obtaining a physician’s signature on a document provided by management and the union indicating that the employee is physically able to perform all the duties required for the position.
A short familiarization period.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
DATE
April 16, 1998
63
UTILIZATION OF STUDENTS
This will confirm our understanding reached at negotiations regarding the use of students.
Students will be employed from the period of April 15 through to September 15 of the same calendar year. Students may be used to perform seasonal work, to replace employees who are on vacation, who are sick or injured, when there are insufficient volunteers for overtime and to cover leaves of absence.
The number of students who are employed at any one time shall be limited to the following unless they are increased by mutual agreement:
Area:
Production
Shipping
Services
Distribution and Merchandising
Distribution Centres
Number:
12
12
5
4
10
43
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
DATE
April 16, 1998
64
UNCLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES
Subject to Article 8 (J)
unclassifieds will only be utilized when all classified employees are working unclassified rate increased to plant labour rate
unclassifieds should be used in areas where casuals are presently employed (as per 81) as well as where extra workers are required
casuals shall only be utilized when all unclassified employees are employed
STD and LTD benefits to be based on average hours worked for last 20 (twenty) weeks
provisions of the transfer agreement are not applicable to unclassifieds
unclassified seniority to accrue on the basis of days they actually work
unclassified employees shall be exempt from Article 14
overtime shall be paid after 40 hours worked in a work week
unclassified employees shall be exempt from Article 18, uniforms shall be issued as required
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE COMPANY:
DATE
April 16, 1998
65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Effective May 4,1992, Seniority of new groups unionized as of December 3,1991 shall have their seniority calculated from their most recent date of hire.
Part Time Merchandisers shall have their seniority calculated for time worked with the company.
For the purposes of this “Letter of Understanding”:
Part Time Merchandisers shall only be given seniority credit for the days they actually work
It is understood that this letter only applies to the employee who joined the union on December 3,199 1 and in no way affects or interferes with any personnel adjustments, including bumping, lay off or job postings that occurred prior to May 4,1992.
- The use of “most recent date of hire” for seniority calculation shall only be applicable to the employees who joined the union as of December 3,1991.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
DATE
April 16. 1998
66
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm our agreement reached at negotiations.
It is agreed that employees who bid for driving positions will fall under the following provisions:
1)	All employees who are successful in their bid for a position requiring a class 1 or class 3 license will be required to successfully under go a driving evaluation as decided by the company.
2)	Driving positions will be awarded to the senior employee who has the license required for the position,provided they successfully pass the required driving evaluation.
3)	Should there be no employee with the required license apply or be successful in passing the driving evaluation, the position will be awarded based on a combination of seniority and score on the driving evaluation. Preference in this case will be given to employees who are currently in a driving position. If this should occur employees will be provided with the training required to qualify them for the license required for this position.
4)	Where training is required the time required for training will be a combination of time paid by the company and the employees own time.
5)	A list will be compiled of employees who are interested in upgrading their driving license when there is not a position available. As time permits these employees will be trained upon successful completion of a driving evaluation. Training time will be a combination of time paid by the company and the employees own time.
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE COMPANY:
DATE
April 16, 1998
67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
1.	An employee who holds a floater position as of Monday, May 4,1998 has a maximum period of twelve (12) months from that date to opt out of the floater position.
2.	If a floater decides to opt out:
(a)	he/she stays in the floater position, earning the floater rate, until the earlier of another employee being trained and ready to move in to the floater position he/she is opting out of and eight weeks from the date that he/she formally declared his/her desire to opt out of the floater position. When he/she leaves the floater position, he/she reverts to an operator position, and Article 14F becomes applicable to him/her in the same way as it is to other employees who are not floaters;
(b)	he/she can displace any employee junior to him/her in the department, as long as he/she is qualified and able to perform the work of the junior employee. Should this result in a need to reduce staff from the department, the junior employee in the department will receive a lay-off notice, and the provisions of Article 9J will be applied.
3.	Attached to this letter is a list of the numbers of floaters in each department as of the date of signing of the new collective agreement. These numbers will not be exceeded without the agreement of the Union.
4.	The new article - Floaters takes effect Monday, May 4,1998.
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
DATE
April 16, 1998
68
SPECIAL SEVERANCE PROVISIONS FOR GARAGE EMPLOYEES:
For garage employees who are unable to bump and for whom the Employer has been unable to arrange an offer of employment with the outside supplier of fleet maintenance, there will be an enhanced severance package consisting of two (2) weeks’ pay for every year of service (or part thereof) and a program of relocation counselling.
For garage employees who are able to bump but choose not to, or who decline an offer of employment with the outside supplier of fleet maintenance, severance pay under Article 26 is available.
In recognition of the closure of the garage, the Employer agrees to reallocate certain resources from the garage to the maintenance department. To effect this reallocation, an entry level industrial mechanic position will be offered to present garage employees who are licensed mechanics. The successful mechanic (including qualifying within twenty-five (25) working days under Article 9C) will be assessed by the Department of Labour for placement in the apprenticeship program, and will be placed at the I.M. level that corresponds with the outcome of the assessment. He will be given credit for the number of hours of experience related to that level.
April 16, 1998
69
CALL PROCEDURE FOR RECALLS OF LESS THAN 40 HOURS
A laid-off employee who wishes to be recalled for work for less than forty hours at a time must telephone the Employer by 10 a.m. each Friday morning to put his/her name on the list for the following week. For each week, this list of names of laid-off employees will constitute the “Short Notice Work List”.
During each week, work will be offered to the laid-off employees on the Short Notice Work List for the week in order of seniority provided the employee is able to do the work in question. The laid-off employees on the Short Notice Work List must remain available by their telephones between 8:30 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. each day during the week to receive offers of work.
A laid-off employee on the Short Notice Work List must call the Employer and take him/herself off the Short Notice Work List if his/her circumstances change during the week and he/she is no longer able to respond to an offer of work during that week.
If, on any given day, no laid-off employee on the Short Notice Work List accepts an offer of work, the Employer will require these laid-off employees to work in reverse order of seniority.
A laid-off employee on the Short Notice Work List who turns down an offer of work more than three (3) times in a thirty (30) day period will not be permitted to put his/her name on the Short Notice Work List for a further thirty (30) day period.
April 16, 1998