COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
DATED THIS	day of the month of
BETWEEN:	Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited P. O. Box 8118 Halifax, Nova Scotia B3K 5Y6
AND:	Communication, Energy & Paper Workers Union Local 40 N
28 September 1999
INDEX OF ARTICLES
1	- OBJECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT............................... 1
2	- BARGAINING UNIT......................................... 1
3	- MUTUAL RIGHTS AND BENEFITS.............................. 2
4	- UNION SECURITY.......................................... 3
5	- UNION REPRESENTATION.................................... 4
6	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE..................................... 5
7	- ARBITRATION............................................. 6
8	- SENIORITY............................................... 7
9	- PROMOTIONS, LAY-OFFS, REHIRING AND JOB OPENINGS........ 10
10	- FLOATERS AND PLANT OPERATORS.......................... 16
11	- DISCHARGE ............................................ 2 0
12	- PAID HOLIDAYS......................................... 21
13	- PAID VACATION......................................... 22
14	- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME............................ 2 5
15	- RULES GOVERNING DRIVER SALESPERSONS................... 35
16	- ROUTE CUTTING......................................... 3 6
17- WAGES.................................................. 37
18	- UNIFORMS.............................................. 38
19	- ABSENCES.............................................. 39
20	- BULLETIN BOARDS....................................... 4 0
21	- MEDICAL EXAMINATION................................... 4 0
22	- SECURITY PLAN......................................... 41
23	- SICKNESS BENEFITS..................................... 41
24- GENERAL................................................ 42
25	- SAFETY................................................. 4	4
26	- SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE.................................... 4	5
27	- TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE................................... 4	5
28	- DURATION OF AGREEMENT.................................. 4	6
WAGES APPENDIX A - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE...................... 4 7
WAGES APPENDIX B - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE...................... 51
WAGES APPENDIX C - DAIRY DIVISION/ICE CREAM DIVISION....... 52
WAGES APPENDIX D - MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATION.............. 53
WAGES APPENDIX E - MIDDLETON............................... 5 9
WAGES APPENDIX F - BULK TANK DRIVERS....................... 60
WAGES APPENDIX G - HAULERS................................. 60
WAGES APPENDIX H - MERCHANDISERS........................... 62
APPENDIX I - BOILER ROOM................................... 66
APPENDIX J - DRIVER JOB BIDDING AND BUMPING CRITERIA....... 69
RAIN GEAR POLICY........................................... 71
MAINTENANCE POLICY STATEMENT............................... 72
28 September 1999
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SPLIT SHIFTS.................. 7 5
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - DISTRIBUTION OF WORK ON HOLIDAYS.... 76
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - RETURN TO WORK................ 7 7
UTILIZATION OF STUDENTS................................. 7 8
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SENIORITY OF NEW GROUPS....... 7 9
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - ON-GOING PROCESS.............. 8 0
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - MERCHANDISERS.................82
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - NUMBER OF MERCHANDISERS.......83
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SHIFTS........................84
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - WEEKEND WORK..................86
28 September 1999
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
DATED THIS	day of the month of
BETWEEN:	Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited
P. O. Box 8118,
Halifax, Nova Scotia
hereinafter referred to as the "Employer"
AND:	Communication, Energy & Paper Workers Union
Local 40 N
hereinafter referred to as the "Union"
WITNESSETH that the Employer and the Union hereby mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - OBJECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT
A.	The intent and purpose of this Agreement shall be to promote and improve industrial and economic relations in the industry, to establish and maintain a high degree of discipline and efficiency and to set forth herein the basic agreements covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment which will render justice to all.
B.	The parties hereto desire to cooperate in establishing and maintaining proper and suitable conditions in the Company which will tend to secure uniform and equitable terms of employment satisfactory to Employer and employees, to provide methods for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes which may arise between them, and foster goodwill, friendly relations and better understanding between the parties.
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING UNIT
A.	The Employer recognizes the Union to be the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees hereinafter defined to be in the bargaining unit, and those employees shall be all employees of the Employer excluding supervisors, employees of the rank of foreperson or above, salespersons other than driver salespersons, office staff and those excluded by Section 2 (2) (a) and (b) of the Trade Union Act of Nova Scotia.
28 September 1999
B1. Forepersons and those above the rank of forepersons will not perform bargaining unit work except:
(a)	In emergency conditions
(b)	For the purpose of demonstration or training
(c)	To relieve an employee for breaks
(d)	When the regular employee is absent and no replacement is available
B2. Sales supervisors shall continue to perform their normal sales and merchandising activities provided, however, that such activities shall not be extended by the Company so as to cause the lay-off of any bargaining unit employee.
C.	There will be no contracting out of Wholesale Routes, Long Haul or Bulk Tank during the life of this agreement. This section is not retroactive and applies to work being currently performed by the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 3 - MUTUAL RIGHTS AND BENEFITS
A.	No employee shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written contract which may limit, alter, modify, or conflict with the stipulations of this Agreement.
B.	There shall be no lockout by the Employer and no strike by the Union during the term of this Agreement.
C1. In administering this Agreement, the Union and the Company shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a manner consistent with this agreement.
C2. The parties agree that each will comply with the provisions of the Nova Scotia Human Rights Act.
D.	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Employer to manage and control the Employer's operations and without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing:
(a)	To maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	To hire, discharge, transfer, promote, classify, demote, discipline, suspend, layoff, transfer and assign work to employees and to introduce new or improved methods or facilities; provided that a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with
28 September 1999
-3-
as hereinafter provided;
(c)	Generally, to manage, control, continue, discontinue in whole or in part, the Employer's operations and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number of employees, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines and processes to be used, and the expansion, limitation or cessation of operations.
(d)	The Employer shall retain at all times the right to maintain a sufficient qualified workforce for the proper efficient operation of the Company.
(e)	Nothing in this management rights clause shall detract from the rights of management as exercised in the past.
(f)	However, the exercise of the functions of Management will be consistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY
A.	All employees covered by this agreement shall at the time of hiring sign a dues check off form for the union as a condition of employment.
B1. Monthly union dues shall be deducted from the pay of all employees in the bargaining unit. The amount to be deducted shall be determined by a resolution of the Union and the Company will be advised of the amount.
B2. The dues collected shall be forwarded to the Secretary Treasurer of the local union, by the tenth day of the month following the period for which deductions have been made.
B3. The Company shall include a list in alphabetical order showing the names of the employees from whom deductions have been made and the total amount deducted from each employee.
C1. The Company shall deduct monthly union dues from high school, college and university students of two hours wage per month. Students will be hired from the period of April 15 through to September 15 of the same year. Students, upon completing 120 working days in a calendar year, will join the Union and his/her seniority date will be calculated on the 121st working day for that individual.
C2. If a student does not return to school, and is not laid off, the seniority date will be
28 September 1999
-4-
assigned on the 26th working day after September 15. The student, at this point, must go to the unclassified pool if there is an opening.
C3. The Company shall deduct initiation fees along with monthly union dues and remit same to the Union.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION REPRESENTATION
A.	The Employer acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or elect a Shop Steward for the employees, and if the operations are such as cannot be handled by one steward only, additional stewards may be appointed or elected.
B.	The Employer shall recognize a Union Grievance Committee comprised of two (2) members, both of whom shall be employees of the Company and appointed by the Union.
C.	The Union agrees to advise the Employer in writing of the names of the Shop Steward(s) and members of the Grievance Committee and of any subsequent change in the names thereof.
D.	The Union Representative shall with the permission of the Employer be permitted to enter the Employer's premises on Union business provided he/she does not unduly interfere with the operations or progress of the work.
E1. For matters arising within the Bedford Plant, the Shop Steward(s) shall be allowed the necessary time off with pay to investigate and settle grievances on the premises. They shall be free to discharge their duties without fear that their relations with the Company may be affected. The Shop Steward shall act in good faith and not abuse these rights and shall make honest attempts to settle grievances.
E2. For matters arising outside the Bedford Plant, the Employer agrees to provide compensation to the Shop Steward(s) who are required to attend personally, at one of the branches for union business. This compensation will include travel time and time spent on the Employer's premises. It is mutually agreed, however, that the Employer's obligation to provide such compensation shall be limited to a maximum amount equal to 200 hours (at regular rates) in any given calendar year.
E3. The Company will recognize a union negotiating committee limited to five (5) employee/members and will pay these employees at regular time for wages lost, during direct bargaining sessions, up to a maximum of two hundred and fifty (250) hours for the Committee.
28 September 1999
-5-
F.	A Shop Steward shall be an employee of the Employer. There shall be no discrimination against a Shop Steward for Union activities.
G.	An employee shall have the right to have his/her Shop Steward present at any meeting with a supervisor when such meeting concerns disciplinary action for that employee. In the absence of the regular Shop Steward, the Chief Shop Steward may attend.
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A1. The parties to this Agreement recognize that within the Grievance Procedure there lies the means for resolution of differences of interpretation or violation or alleged violation of any one of the stipulations of this Agreement or working conditions by the Employer or the employees who are covered by this Agreement.
A2. The Union may file a grievance on behalf of all employees or any restricted number of employees or on behalf of an individual employee where the Union believes there has been violation of the Collective Agreement affecting an employee or a group of employees. Such grievance may be filed directly at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
B.	First Step:
B1. An attempt will be made between the shop steward and the employee, with the department supervisor to settle the matter verbally.
C.	Second Step:
C1. If this attempt is unsuccessful, a grievance shall be submitted in writing to the department supervisor within ten (10) working days of the day the matter of the grievance occurred. The supervisor shall then meet with the Steward and employee and a decision shall be rendered within five (5) working days of receipt of the grievance.
D.	Third Step:
D1. Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement at step two, the Union shall within five (5) working days, submit the grievance to the manager or his representative who shall then meet with the grievance committee and render a decision within five (5) working days. The grievance committee may have the assistance of the National Representative of the Union at this stage.
E.	Fourth Step:
28 September 1999
-6-
E1. Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement, the grievance may within ten (10) days then be referred to an arbitrator in accordance with Article 7 of this Agreement.
F.	Any grievance not submitted within the time limits provided for in steps one, two or three shall automatically expire; however, the time limits may be extended by mutual agreement of both parties.
G.	(a) The Grievance Committee, as a special agenda item during its regular monthly meetings, will review the use of unclassifieds and casuals as well as any grievances filed concerning their employment.
(b)	The Committee may, if there is agreement, determine that the pattern of employment of unclassifieds indicates a need for a new regular position to be created and posted as a vacancy. If the need is primarily in a single work area (department) a regular job will be created. If the need is in two or more areas a “spare” position will be created. A Spare employee differs from a regular employee in that her primary function is to replace absent employees and as such will be required to undergo shift changes on short notice. Article 14G does not apply to spares. In cases of layoff the spare jobs must be eliminated before any other jobs and cannot exist if there are employees on layoff.
(c)	The Committee may, if there is agreement, determine that the pattern of employment of casuals indicates that the over all number of unclassifieds (currently seven) will be increased.
(d)	The Committee will also on an ongoing basis review all the Collective Agreement provisions regarding assignment of company work and make suggestions to the parties for improvement.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
A.	No matter may be submitted to an Arbitrator unless settlement thereof has been attempted through the Grievance Procedure set forth in Article 6.
B.	The Employer and Union shall agree on an Arbitrator within four (4) days following the notice of Arbitration given by one or the other party.
C.	Should either party refuse to agree on an Arbitrator, such appointment may be made by final and binding decision of the Nova Scotia Minister of Labour.
28 September 1999
-7-
D.	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be given within fourteen (14) days following the hearing and shall be final and binding on both parties. It is understood, however, that the Arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the stipulations of this Agreement, nor to delete, alter, or modify any part thereof, provided however, the Arbitrator may alter any discipline imposed by the Company, including altering a discharge to a suspension if the Arbitrator deems it just.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
A. Seniority shall be defined as the length of continuous employment with the Company while a member of the bargaining unit.
B1. Seniority rights shall be established separately for:
(a)	Bedford Milk Division & Ice Cream Division
(b)	Bulk Tank Graders
(c)	Haulers
(d)	Truro Distribution Centre
(e)	Kentville Distribution Centre
(f)	Annapolis Distribution Centre
(g)	Middleton Distribution Centre
(h)	Yarmouth Distribution Centre
(i)	Shelburne Distribution Centre
(j)	Bridgewater Distribution Centre
(k)	Garage Workers - Bedford
(l)	Spread Plant - Middleton
(m)	Merchandisers - Bedford - Full Time and Part Time
(n)	Lunenburg Dairy
B2. All branches except for (b), (c), (k), (l), (m) and (n) shall have two seniority groups:
(a)	Drivers and Driver-Salespersons
(b)	All other employees
B3. Seniority in all cases is to be calculated from the date of acquisition by Farmers or at the date of completion of the probationary period as outlined in paragraph C, whichever is the latter.
B4. This section B shall not be construed to mean that unskilled employees shall be promoted into jobs requiring special qualifications.
28 September 1999
-8-
C.	The seniority of each full-time employee covered by this Agreement shall be established after a probationary period of sixty (60) working days upon completion of which seniority shall be calculated from the day the employee was hired. During this probationary period, there will be regular meetings between the new employee and his/her supervisor to review the new employee’s progress. The supervisor will solicit and consider the views of the new employee’s co-workers in determining the employee’s progress. The new employee will be evaluated, at least in part, against a list of core skills required for the job he/she is doing, such list to have been developed by the Employer with input from the Union.
D.	An employee's seniority shall be forfeited for the following reasons:
(a)	If he/she voluntarily resigns;
(b)	If he/she is discharged for just cause;
(c)	If he/she has been absent for five (5) working days without notifying the Employer, or without reasonable excuse
E1. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, an employee unable to work because of proven illness or injury shall accumulate and retain seniority rights. When such employee returns to work within twelve (12) months, he/she shall have his/her same job, provided he/she is able to perform the work.
E2. If upon discussion between the employee, his/her medical doctor, and the Employer, it is obvious that the employee cannot return to his/her same job within the twelve (12) month period, the position will be posted, upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
E3. The accumulation and retention of seniority rights while an employee is unable to work because of proven illness or injury shall not entitle the employee to pyramid benefits.
E4. A medical Doctor's certificate shall constitute sufficient proof of illness or injury. It is clearly understood that a false report of illness may be cause for discipline up to and including discharge.
E5(i). If an employee has been absent from work for less than twelve (12) months, they will be eligible to receive benefits under Article 13, 23 and 24F.
E5(ii). If an employee has been absent from work for 12 months or longer, they will not be eligible for benefits under Article 13, 23 and 24F. When an employee has returned to work for a period of 60 calendar days, they will then be eligible to receive benefits under Article 13, 23 and 24F.
28 September 1999
-9-
It is clearly understood:
(a)	That the returning employee does not have to repeat his/her probationary period, as per Article 8.
(b)	That an employee's seniority accrues through the period mentioned in E5(i) and E5(ii) above.
(c)	If during the sixty day period mentioned above an employee is absent through illness, he/she shall be eligible to receive a sick day(s) as per the provisions of Article 23.
(d)	An employee shall not be eligible to accumulate benefits under Article 13, 23 and 24F during their absence of more than twelve months.
E5(iii) Full time employees hired after December 31st, 1993 shall be entitled to the provisions of Article 13, 23, and 24F on the basis of one fifty-second (1/52nd) for each week of active employment. These employees shall only be entitled to the provisions of Article 22 while actively employed. Company contributions to these benefits shall cease in the first month following layoff. Coverage for Group Life Insurance, Dependent Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Medical Benefits, Vision Care, and Dental Care may be continued during the time limits provided for in Article 8E1 to E5 provided the employee pays the full premium.
F.	If an employee is ill when recalled to work, Article 8E1 to E5 will apply.
G.	An employee who is promoted out of the bargaining unit shall retain his/her seniority rights for a period of six (6) months, said period to be included in the seniority rating, in the case of demotion, voluntary return to the bargaining unit or abolishment of the position.
H.	The Company agrees to post seniority lists by seniority group. The lists will be posted at the conclusion of each fiscal quarter i.e. end of January, April, July and October. It is the responsibility of all employees to immediately notify the Company of any errors in the listings. The Union is to receive copies plus a master list showing Company seniority.
I.	Casuals shall not attain seniority and shall not be subject to the terms of this Agreement. Summer students shall attain seniority in accordance with the provisions of Article 4. The provisions of the Nova Scotia Labour Standards Code Act shall cover casuals and summer students.
28 September 1999
-10-
ARTICLE 9 - PROMOTIONS, LAY-OFFS, REHIRING AND JOB OPENINGS
A. Vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be filled in order of seniority, subject to the provisions of this Article.
B1. Subject to section D below, announcements of opening for all jobs within the bargaining unit (including unclassified positions) will be posted on the bulletin boards for a period of five (5) working days prior to the filling of the job vacancy.
B2. A job posting shall show:
(a)	The classification of the job;
(b)	The current days and hours of work;
(c)	The salary;
(d)	The shift premium (if applicable);
(e)	The qualifications or skills and training requirements (if applicable).
B3. Employees wishing to apply for a job vacancy must apply in writing to Human Resources. An applicant may request a signed receipt for his/her job bid.
B4.	(a)	If the posted job is in driving, the trades, or the quality control lab (not the
processing lab), the Company will include the required qualifications on the posting, and an applicant will not be considered qualified unless he/she possesses the specified qualifications. (For driver qualifications, see Appendix “J”. For trades qualifications, see Appendices “D”, “E” and “K”. Quality control qualification is a two-year food technology or lab technology diploma or equivalent training or experience.)
(b)	For all other jobs, the skills and training requirements may be set out on the posting. An applicant will be considered qualified unless the Company reasonably determines that he/she will not be able to demonstrate the ability to successfully perform the job within the twenty-five (25) working day period referred to in section C1 below.
B5. As soon as practical following the removal of the job posting, the most senior qualified applicant, if he/she has not previously performed or otherwise become familiar with the job applied for, will be allowed up to five (5) working days to observe the job being performed and determine his/her desire for the job. The applicant must decide by the end of the observation period whether he/she wants the job applied for. If the most senior qualified applicant either does not want or is not confirmed in the job, the second most senior qualified applicant will be granted the same opportunity to observe the job
28 September 1999
-11-
being performed.
B6. All job openings will be awarded within five (5) working days of the completion of the observation period(s) referred to above, and the successful bidder will be placed on the awarded job within a period not to exceed eight (8) weeks from the date of the award.
C1. An employee to whom a job has been awarded will have a period of within twenty-five (25) working days from the date of being placed on the job to receive training and to successfully perform the job. In most cases, the Company will confirm an employee in the job at or prior to the end of the twenty-five (25) working day period. This twenty-five (25) working day period may be extended by the Company in the case of jobs that require more than twenty-five (25) working days to learn. If, during the twenty-five (25) working day period (or such extended period as may have been determined by the Company) the employee is unable to successfully perform the job, he/she will be returned to his/her former job.
C2. During any such period of training, the employee will be paid 90% of the full rate for the awarded job.
D.	Each original job vacancy will result in a maximum of two postings (one to fill the original vacancy and the second to fill the vacancy created by the filling of the original vacancy) unless for either (or both) of these two postings there is a combination of observation and training periods not exceeding five (5) days, in which case there will be a third posting, to fill the vacancy created by the posting of the second vacancy. The second and, if applicable, the third postings resulting from the posting of the original opening shall be marked as such. The vacant position which is available following the completion of the posting/bidding process will be awarded to the most senior employee from that department who is interested in taking on the position. In the event there is no such senior employee , the remaining applicants for the previous two (or three, as the case may be) postings will be canvassed in order of seniority for interest in filling the vacancy.
Finally, if the vacancy remains unfilled, the unclassified employee who is senior on the seniority list for the “side” where the vacancy exists will be assigned the job. In all of the foregoing circumstances (the senior employee, the remaining applicants and the senior unclassified employee), the provisions of B4, B5, B6, C1 and C2 will apply so that the employee in question will be treated as though he/she had applied for the position in the first place (except that B5 and C2 will not apply to the senior unclassified employee, who will hold his/her unclassified rate during any training period).
E.	An employee who is newly in a job for any reason apart from having bumped or been recalled into it shall not bid on any posting for a period of six (6) months from the date he/she is awarded the job.
28 September 1999
-12-
F.	A job shall not be considered vacant if an employee is absent through sickness, injury or authorized leave. If it is known that an employee is to be absent for more than twenty-five (25) working days, the staff within the department will be canvassed, with the most senior employee applying being assigned to the work provided retraining is not necessary for that person or his/her replacement. Upon completion of the temporary assignment, the employee shall be returned to his/her former job.
G.	Where a senior applicant does not receive the position applied for, he/she shall be able to request of the appropriate manager the reason why his/her application was refused.
H.	Absent employees may contact the Human Resource Department for information on current job openings.
I.	If the Company does not intend to fill a vacancy, it will notify the Union accordingly within two (2) weeks of the position being vacated.
J.	Layoff and Bumping:
J1. In the case of work elimination resulting in the need to reduce the work force in a classification, the junior employee in the classification in the department where work is being eliminated can bump by choosing the work assignment of any employee junior to him/her who is the junior employee in any classification in any department in the bargaining unit subject to the following three conditions:
For the purposes of this article a weekend shift job will be defined as a separate classification distinct from the classification that includes the same weekday-shift jobs.
(a)	In order to bump into driving, trades and quality control jobs, an employee must be able to meet the bumping criteria agreed to by the Employer and the Union for the job. (For driving bumping criteria, see Appendix “J”. For trades bumping criteria, see Appendices “D”, “E” and “K”. Quality control bumping criterion is a two-year food technology or lab technology diploma or equivalent training or experience.)
(b)	For all other jobs, there must be the expectation that an employee will be able to do the job within the period of time that would be required by the average employee to do that job.
(c)	Where there are jobs in a classification in more than one geographic location (i.e., Bedford plant, Middleton spreads plant, distribution centres) within the bargaining unit, the job(s) in that classification will be considered a separate classification in each geographic location so that an
-13-
employee will not be required to move from one city or town to another in order to avail himself/herself of his/her right to bump a junior employee.
(d)	An employee will be paid the rate for that job he/she bumps into as of the date of the bump, except that if an employee’s weekly earnings in his/her old job are lower than the weekly earnings of the position he/she is bumping into, the employee will continue to receive the weekly earnings of his/her old job for the period of time referred to in J1(b) above.
J2. If an employee proves unable to do the job he/she has bumped into within a reasonable period of time (at least the period of time that would be required by an average employee), he/she will then bump into the job held by the most junior employee in his/her geographic location he/she is qualified to do. If there is no job he/she is qualified to do held by an employee junior to the one he/she first bumped into, he/she will be laid off.
J3.	The foregoing provisions also apply to any employee displaced by a bump.
J4.	Seven (7) calendar days notice will be given to an employee who will be laid off
from active employment.
J5. At the time of a layoff, any employee can volunteer to take a layoff. Employees will not be forced to bump but can choose to be laid off instead.
J6. Notwithstanding Article 8B1 to B4, there will, for the purposes of this Article, be one seniority list for the whole bargaining unit with the exception of part-time merchandisers, who will have a separate seniority list.
J7. In the case of a full-time employee who moves into a part-time merchandiser position he/she shall be entitled to only the provisions of the Collective Agreement which pertain to part-time merchandisers while working in the part-time merchandiser position.
K.	Shift Changes Resulting From Bumping
K1. When an employee bumps into a classification in a department, he/she may pick any shift (or route, as applicable), within that classification subject to the following conditions:
(a)	that the present shift that he/she has bumped into has a starting time that varies from the starting time of the shift of the bumping employee’s former job by more than three (3) hours;
(b)	that the employee working that shift or route is junior to the bumping
-14-
employee;
(c)	that no additional training is required beyond what has to be provided as a result of the bump;
(d)	that the changes in shifts or routes do not create any customer service issues. If the Employer considers that this applies in a particular situation, it will discuss it with the Union.
L.	Rights of Laid Off Employees
L1. An employee who is laid off shall retain his/her seniority for a period of twelve (12) months from the last day on which he/she worked.
L2. Where the Employer has forty (40) or more hours of work available within a Company work week (Monday to Sunday inclusive), it will recall the employee on layoff with the most seniority who is able to do the work in question. An employee on layoff must accept any recall offered to him/her unless he/she has a reasonable excuse (which includes approved training). If personal circumstances necessitate (for example, arranging for child care), an employee can delay being recalled for up to twenty-four (24) hours after the time he/she is to report for work. However, the employee must advise the Employer at the time of the recall of his/her need to delay reporting before the delay in reporting will be excused.
L3. Where the Employer has less than forty (40) hours of work available within a Company work week (Monday to Sunday inclusive), it will get that work done by first offering it to the senior person with recall rights able to do the work in question who has indicated his/her desire and ability to respond to a short-notice shift, in accordance with the following procedure:
(a)	A laid-off employee who wishes to be recalled for work for less than forty hours at a time must telephone the Employer by 10 a.m. each Friday morning to put his/her name on the list for the following week. For each week, this list of names of laid-off employees will constitute the “Short Notice Work List”.
(b)	During each week, work will be offered to the laid-off employees on the Short Notice Work List for the week in order of seniority provided the employee is able to do the work in question. The laid-off employees on the Short Notice Work List must remain available by their telephones between 8:30 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. each day during the week to receive offers of work.
(c)	A laid-off employee on the Short Notice Work List must call the Employer
-15-
and take him/herself off the Short Notice Work List if his/her circumstances change during the week and he/she is no longer able to respond to an offer of work during that week.
(d)	If, on any given day, no laid-off employee on the Short Notice Work List accepts an offer of work, the Employer will require these laid-off employees to work in reverse order of seniority.
(e)	A laid-off employee on the Short Notice Work List who turns down an offer of work more than three (3) times in a thirty (30) day period will not be permitted to put his/her name on the Short Notice Work List for a further thirty (30) day period.
L4. An employee on layoff will not be required to respond to a recall to work until after the expiry of seven (7) calendar days from the date of layoff.
L5. If, within six (6) months, the former job of an employee who was displaced by the elimination of work or the bump of another employee reappears (as distinct from a vacancy caused by an employee leaving the department), he/she is entitled to return to that former job before it is filled by any other means. If more than one employee was displaced from the classification in which the work reappears, entitlement to return will be on the basis of seniority. Any other employee who had been displaced by a bumping employee now returning to his/her former job will also have the right to return to his/her former job.
L6. When a vacancy that exceeds or is expected to exceed nine (9) months in duration (or twelve (12) months in the case of a requirement to fill in for an absent employee) arises in a department, it must be posted and made available to be filled in accordance with the regular job posting procedures before an employee on layoff can be permanently recalled into it.
L7. If there is a requirement for extra work in a department where there has been a layoff within the preceding six (6) months (twelve (12) months in the ice cream department) that is not met by overtime in the department, the recall of a laid-off employee, or the use of an unclassified or casual employee, the Employer will provide the Union with the details.
L8. A laid off employee will be entitled to continued group insurance benefits (with the exception of short-term and long-term disability insurance benefits) if he/she continues to pay his/her share of the premiums during the twelve (12) month period referred to Article 9L1. During this twelve (12) month period, a laid off employee can also continue to participate in the Company pension plan, and have the time on layoff
-16-
credited as pensionable service, by continuing to pay his/her pension contribution during the period of layoff. When a laid off employee is recalled, his/her vacation, sick days and Christmas bonus will be reduced by one fifty-second (1/52) for every week he/she is on layoff for the entire week.
L9. Casuals or students will not be utilized if they prevent the recall of a laid-off employee.
M.	Additional Provisions for Ice Cream Employees
M1. For the purposes of these additional provisions, “ice cream employees” includes ice cream shippers and ice cream drivers.
M2. At or after the time of layoff or bump, ice cream employees can choose to use these additional provisions (Article 9M3) or the regular layoff provisions (Article 9J1). Any ice cream employee who chooses the regular provisions ceases to be considered an ice cream employee and has no further access to these additional provisions.
M3. An ice cream employee who chooses to bump rather than be laid off shall bump into the job held by the most junior person in the Bedford plant he/she is qualified to do. If there is no job he/she is qualified to do held by an employee junior to him/her, he/she will be laid off. For a period of twelve (12) months from the effective date of the layoff or bump, ice cream employees retain recall rights to their former job (as distinct from a vacancy caused by an employee leaving the department), and any non-ice cream employees displaced by a bumping ice cream employee have these same recall rights to their former jobs. However, if more than one ice cream employee was displaced, entitlement to return will be on the basis of seniority subject to ability to do the work. Any other employee who had been displaced by a bumping employee now returning to his/her former job will also have the right to return to his/her former job.
ARTICLE 10 - FLOATERS AND PLANT OPERATORS
A.	Floaters
A1. Employees classified in trades or driver positions are excluded from the application of this article.
B.	A floater is expected to:
a)	be able to perform at least 90% of the duties in the department;
b)	undergo shift changes on short notice;
-17-
c)	be called first for relief (this does not include overtime to which the floater would not otherwise be entitled); and
d)	cover employee absences and meet production needs (this does not include overtime to which the floater would not otherwise be entitled).
C.	Article 14G1 to G7 does not apply to floaters.
D.	If a floater who normally works Monday to Friday works a weekend shift, he/she will be entitled to the premium pay provided for by Article 14B1 to B2 and 14C1 to C2. (Premium pay will not be paid when the floater job in question regularly involves weekend work.)
E.	A floater will be paid the premium pay provided for by Article 14B1 to B2 and 14C1 to C2 for work performed in excess of eight or ten hours in a day. A floater has the right to refuse to work a second shift in a day if that second shift is at straight time rates.
F.	Floaters will be selected by first canvassing the employees in the department. The employee who expresses an interest in the position (or, if more than one employee expresses an interest in the position, in order of seniority) will be given a twenty-five (25) working day trial period within which it will be determined whether the employee is going to be able to do the job. If the position is not filled through this process, it will be posted.
G.	Apart from the provisions of this Article, the floater classification will be treated the same as the other classifications in the bargaining unit. The maximum number of floaters will be limited to two (2) in milk shipping, one (1) in processing, one (1) in UHT, three (3) in ice cream and one (1) in milk filling.
H.	Plant Operators
H1. There is a need to respond to “upsurges” in the Bedford Plant production caused
by:
-	Sales by large customers
-	Short-term co-pack contracts
-	Inventory build up (but not if it can result in a subsequent layoff)
I The Company will create and post a maximum of six (6) new full-time regular jobs called Plant Operator.
J.	For all purposes of the agreement, except the assignment of overtime, the Plant
-18-
Operator classification will be considered to be its own department.
K.	Employees who occupy this classification will only be assigned to production functions. They will not be assigned to distribution, quality control, warehouse, power and refrigeration, maintenance, or bulk.
L.	Plant Operators will be scheduled and assigned to one of three distinct types of work:
(a)	In any production department where an upsurge in business necessitates additional manpower.
(b)	Training and Familiarization.
© In any production department that could otherwise have unclassified employees scheduled to work, ie:
-	Vacation relief.
-	Replacing employees who have been absent for more than a week due to sickness.
-	Plant Operators, when scheduled or assigned as an unclassified, shall not work Saturday or Sunday.
M.	General Conditions
M1. All the articles of the Collective Agreement will apply to Plant Operators except as set forth in this article.
M2. Notwithstanding article 24B, Plant Operators will not be transferred from an “upsurge assignment” or scheduled training or familiarization to any other assignment.
M3. If the assignment of Plant Operators to upsurge production results in a need for extra manpower in the shipping department the Company may hire, in addition to the number allowed in article 14F8(g), a maximum of three unclassified employees to meet the extra shipping demands.
N.	Training
N1. Initially, Plant Operators will be trained to operate various pieces of equipment in order to work in any production area.
-19-
N2. When this training is complete, there will be an ongoing requirement for Plant Operators to familiarize themselves with the various pieces of equipment to keep current with practices and procedures.
N3. To allow training and familiarization, it is agreed:
(a)	If Plant Operators are scheduled for training (including refresher training) they will be additional to the compliment of workers who would otherwise be in the department.
(b)	If Plant Operators are scheduled for familiarization and they replace an employee who would otherwise be in the department, the “replaced” employees, for training only, can be assigned elsewhere.
0.	Scheduling
01.	Plant Operators will be assigned their work by a schedule, which will be posted at the time clocks, with a copy to the Union’s chief steward. On a weekly basis, they will be assigned either four - ten hour days or five - eight hour days.
02.	The schedule will show:
(a)	One of the three types of work (upsurge, training/familiarization, unclassified).
(b)	The department.
(c)	The days and hours of work.
The schedule must be posted at least seven calendar days in advance of the day of work.
Any day for which the schedule is not posted as required, the previous week’s schedule will carry over, with any changes subject to article 14G1 to G7.
03.	Plant Operators will have Saturday and Sunday as days off unless:
(a)	The department to which they are assigned to do upsurge work is at its practical maximum production capacity during Monday to Friday.
(b)	The training/familiarization is only available on a Saturday or Sunday.
-20-
P.	Overtime
P1. For the Collective Agreement overtime provisions, including work on days off, Plant operators will be considered members of either:
(a)	The department in which they are working, or
(b)	The department in which they last worked, if they have finished work for the day or the week, or
(c)	The department in which they will work their first shift of the week, if the overtime is between 12:01 a.m. Monday and the start of their first shift of the week.
Q.	Shift and Assignment Preference
Q1. Specific assignments and shifts of Plant Operators within their own group will be allocated in order of seniority preference subject to the individual’s qualifications. Plant operators will not displace regular department employees from their shifts nor will regular department employees be assigned to the shifts of plant operators when they are working in the department.
ARTICLE 11 - DISCHARGE
A.	In all cases involving the discharge of an employee, the Employer must immediately notify the discharged employee, in writing, of his/her discharge and the reason therefore.
B.	Any discharged employee must be paid, in full, all wages owed to the employee by the Employer, including earned vacation pay, if any, within ten (10) working days from the date of discharge and after any legal liability to the Employer has been paid or satisfied.
C.	A claim, by an employee, that the employee has been unjustly discharged from employment shall be submitted in writing as a grievance and presented to the Manager or the responsible representative, within five (5) working days from date of discharge and such grievance will be accepted at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
-21-
ARTICLE 12 - PAID HOLIDAYS
A.	New Years Day, Good Friday, the day observed as the Queen's Birthday, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and Heritage Day if proclaimed a legal holiday, shall be paid holidays, provided nevertheless that if because of paid holidays, three off days occur consecutively, one of such off days as determined by the Employer shall be worked as a regular working day. The Civic Holiday shall be that day which is defined in a "Letter of Understanding" signed by the Union and Employer and posted at each location.
B.	Any employee absent without good cause satisfactory to the Company on the working day preceding or the working day following any of these holidays will not receive the benefit of the provisions of this Article 12 or be permitted to use the sick days referred to in Article 23, Section B. For the holiday in question, when an employee is required to work on any of the above mentioned holidays, the employee shall be remunerated at the rate of double time for the work performed on such paid holiday in addition to the holiday pay.
C.	The Company agrees that should a paid holiday occur on an employee's day off, such employee shall be compensated with an additional day's pay or a day off in lieu of the holiday, the choice between the day's pay or the day off to be at the discretion of the employee. If a day off is chosen, such day off must be scheduled within four months after the holiday in question unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Employer and employee for the advantage of the employee.
D.	Non-probationary employees who are laid off ten or less working days prior to a holiday shall be paid for the holiday.
E1. When a paid holiday occurs on a scheduled day off, and the employee is not required to work, he/she shall be paid:
one fifth of regular weekly wage if working a 5 day week one quarter of regular weekly wage if working a 4 day week
E2. When a paid holiday occurs on a scheduled work day, and the employee is not required to work, he/she shall be paid:
one fifth of regular weekly wage if working a 5 day week
-22-
one quarter of regular weekly wage if working a 4 day week
F. An employee shall not be entitled to receive holiday pay pursuant to this article for any holiday which falls within the time period in which the employee is also qualified to receive Short Term Disability, Long Term Disability or Workers Compensation Benefits.
ARTICLE 13 - PAID VACATION
A1. The Company agrees to grant vacation entitlement on the anniversary of the employee's hiring date, however, the vacation year is January 1 - December 31
A2. The Company will endeavour to grant employees vacations as requested throughout the year provided, however, that sufficient trained vacation replacements are available so as not to prevent the Company from operating in an efficient, effective manner to meet the needs of our customers. Employees are required to take all of the vacation time to which they are entitled, and all employees who want to take their full vacation time entitlement may do so, subject to the scheduling provisions of this Article.
B1. Each employee who has completed one (1) year’s continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay.
B2. Each employee who has completed five (5) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay.
B3. Each employee who has completed ten (10) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay.
B4. Each employee who has completed twenty (20) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation with pay.
B5. Each employee who has completed twenty-eight (28) years continuous service with the Employer shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation with pay.
B6. For each of B2 through B5, employees will be granted the extra week of vacation in the vacation year that they achieve the next continuous service threshold. By way of illustration, the first vacation year in which an employee will get three (3) weeks vacation is the vacation year in which his five year anniversary falls. However, the third week of vacation may not be taken until after the employee’s anniversary date.
B7. The pay referred to in B1 to B5 inclusive, for all full-time employees, shall be the
-23-
greater of:
(i)	the straight time hourly earnings, at the time of vacation, multiplied by the number of hours in the employee's work week for each week of vacation entitlement.
OR
(ii)	two & one half percent (2.5%) for each week of vacation entitlement, multiplied by the figure which results from the gross earnings in the previous calendar year being reduced by Christmas bonus.
C. Any employee entitled to such one, two, three, four, five or six weeks vacation with pay when is discharged, leaves of his/her own accord, or is laid off due to lack of work prior to taking such vacation shall be compensated at the rate of pay he/she would have received for such vacation.
D1. Employees who become ill or are injured prior to or during their scheduled vacation may postpone the vacation (or the remainder of the vacation) if the Employer is satisfied that the following conditions are met:
(a)	the illness or injury is sufficiently severe that the employee is confined to bed or hospitalized for three days or more;
(b)	the employee is incapable of taking the vacation he/she had planned;
(c)	the employee is incapable of performing his/her normal duties; and
(d)	the employee provides satisfactory medical information confirming that all of these conditions have been met.
D2. The vacation days that may be postponed under paragraph 1 above are those days remaining in the particular block of vacation. The postponed vacation will be rescheduled by the Employer to a time convenient to the Employer and to a time that does not affect the scheduled vacations of any other employees.
D3. As long as the employee is receiving short-term disability benefits, he/she will remain off work. However, once the employee’s doctor indicates that the employee is fit to return to work, the employee will either come back to work or continue with the balance of his/her vacation, at the option of the Employer.
D4. If the employee whose vacation is postponed has received his/her vacation pay in advance of the vacation, the vacation pay relating to the postponed vacation must be
-24-
repaid to the Employer prior to a claim for short-term disability benefits being filed. (It is understood that if the employee fails to repay the vacation pay, he/she will not be able to access short-term disability benefits.)
E.	The choice of vacation periods of driver-salespersons shall be according to seniority ratings.
F.	Employees shall not be permitted to accumulate vacation periods from year to year except when proven illness or injury prevents them from using their earned vacation for the year in which they were absent.
G.	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it shall be understood that the Company will recognize the years of continuous service that an employee has had with any Company Farmers Co-operative Dairy has purchased, and such employee(s) shall be entitled to the full vacation benefits of this Agreement as if the years of service were with Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited (not applicable to companies purchased after September 1, 1972).
H1. The vacation list shall be posted no later than December 1st for the following vacation year (January 1 - December 31).
H2. All employees shall submit their preferred vacation dates to the Employer by January 1st and each employee is entitled to use seniority to establish a claim for two weeks of their vacation entitlement.
H3. Having thus established the vacation priorities for two weeks, employees may then exercise seniority to claim for other vacation periods which may be available within their department in accordance with provisions of this Contract.
H4. The Employer shall post the vacation lists no later than January 15th and employees shall have two weeks from the posted date to register a protest. Any employee who does not apply for their vacation dates by January 31st shall not have the right to protest and shall accept vacation assigned to them by the Employer. The vacation list will be considered final as of January 31st, and the final list will be posted.
H5. Employees shall only be allowed a maximum of two (2) weeks vacation during the summer vacation period unless it is mutually agreed between the Employer and the employee for the employee to receive extra weeks of vacation. Any extra weeks of vacation granted shall not interfere with other employees' vacation.
H6. Should an employee's vacation be cancelled or altered by the Employer, the employee shall be reimbursed for the non-returnable portion of vacation contracts and
-25-
reservations provided satisfactory proof of such amounts are provided by the employee and that such contracts and reservations are through public carriers and bona fide agencies.
H7. Should an employee be called back to work while on his/her scheduled vacation, he/she shall be compensated at two times his/her regular rate of pay for the time worked or granted double time off at a future date at the discretion of the manager.
H8. Notwithstanding anything else herein contained, vacations for ice cream employees shall be subject to the following conditions: A maximum of five employees on vacation at one time and not more than two weeks vacation for any one employee during the period May 1st to October 1st unless agreed to by management.
I.	The Employer agrees that should a paid holiday occur during an employee's vacation, such employee shall be compensated with an additional days pay or a day off in lieu of the holiday, the choice between the days pay or the day off to be at the discretion of the employee. If a day off is chosen, such day off must be scheduled within four months after the holiday in question unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Employer and the employee.
J.	Once the final vacation schedule is posted, there can be no changes by either party except by mutual consent other than emergency conditions when the needs of our customers shall be paramount.
ARTICLE 14 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
A1. The overall Company workweek is Monday to Sunday inclusive. An individual's workweek is within those days.
A2. An individual workweek will be 5 days of 8 hours each or 4 days of 10 hours each.
A3. The workweek will be posted showing the days to be worked and the days off.
B1. Inside workers working a regular 5 day week will work:
a)	Monday to Friday inclusive
b)	8 hours per day
c)	when an employee works in excess of 8 hours per day, he/she will be paid at the rate of time and one half.
-26-
B2. Inside workers working the regular 5 day workweek above who are called in on Saturdays or Sundays will receive pay as scheduled below:
a)	Saturdays - time and one half
b)	Sundays - double time
C1. Inside workers working a regular 4 day week will work:
a)	within Monday to Friday inclusive
b)	10 hours per day
c)	when an employee works more than 10 hours per day, he/she will be paid at the rate of time and one half
C2. Inside workers working the regular 4 day work week above who are called in to work on their scheduled days off will be paid:
a)	on their scheduled single day off - time and one half
b)	Saturday - time and one half
c)	Sunday - double time
D1. Employees who by the nature of their jobs have a normal workweek other than the regular week in B1 and C1 above shall have two consecutive days off.
D2. When as a result of a shift change, an employee on a five day schedule must work six or more consecutive days, the 6th consecutive day of work will be paid at time and one half.
D3. When as a result of a shift change, an employee on a four day schedule must work 5 or more consecutive days, the 5th consecutive day of work will be paid at time and one half.
D4. This will not apply in cases where the change is made at the request of the employee.
D5. It is mutually agreed that nothing in the foregoing shall imply the guarantee of a forty hour week.
-27-
E. Employees working as in D1 who are called in to work on their scheduled days off will be paid as follows:
(a)	for the scheduled single day off on a 4 day work schedule - time and one half
(b)	for the first of the 2 consecutive days off - time and one half
(c)	for the second of the 2 consecutive days off - double time.
F1. These provisions apply to all bargaining unit work except merchandising.
F2. “Extra work” is any work the Company requires beyond that performed by regular employees on scheduled, normal workweeks.
F3. Notwithstanding Article 9L, extra work will be assigned daily in the following order and manner:
(a)	as provided for in Article 24B, by transferring available regular employees who are at work,
(b)	in accordance with Article 9L, by recalling any employees who are on lay off,
(c)	if there is still work the Company requires performed, it may, subject to the conditions set forth below, employ an unclassified employee,
(d)	if there is still work that the Company requires performed, it must offer that work to regular employees on an overtime basis in accordance with this Article 14.
F4. Only if it is not possible to get the work performed using one of the above means may the Company employ casuals. Before employing casuals the Company must first offer the work as casual employment to available qualified unclassified employees.
F5. When assigning extra work the Company may skip the discretionary steps (a) and
(c)	and, for less than a full shift, step (b). In cases of replacing a regular employee who is off work for at least a full shift because of sickness, vacation or other absence the Company may skip Step (d).
-28-
F6. If a casual or unclassified works because no regular employee is available for the extra work, she will be allowed to work to a maximum of four hours. If work is still required after the four hours and regular employees become available because their shifts have ended during the four hours of the casual or unclassifieds assignment, it will be offered to these regular employees as overtime.
F7. Replacing employees:
If an employee who has started a shift leaves prior to its scheduled finish and an unclassified or casual is properly assigned to complete the work of the absent employee, the unclassified or casual is allowed to work to a maximum of the total hours of the scheduled shift less any hours worked by the employee prior to leaving. The commencement of the unclassified’s assignment need not necessarily be contiguous to the departure of the regular employee. In all cases of absence the unclassified can only do the work of the regular employee she is replacing or the work of the regular employee who is replacing the absent employee (one bump maximum).
F8. Terms and Conditions for Unclassified Workers:
(a)	Unclassified employees shall only be utilized:
(i)	to replace regular employees who are off work for a full day because of sickness, vacation or other absence,
(ii)	when workers are required to replace broken machinery, but not to increase production, or
(iii)	when there is a requirement for regular and recurring extra work (including co-pack) that is scheduled at least seven days in advance of the assignment.
Due to the requirements of the unclassified position, he/she must be trained to perform the duties of as many positions as possible, and can therefore be scheduled for training on an as-needed basis. Their assignment to training is not considered “extra work” for the purposes of this Article.
(b)	Unclassified workers are members of the bargaining unit and covered by the collective agreement.
(c)	Apart from this 14F8, the provisions of Article 14 do not apply to unclassified workers.
(d)	Unclassified employees will be paid overtime after 40 regular hours in a
-29-
week.
(e)	Their rate of pay is the plant labour rate and they have all the benefits of regular employees. Benefits will be prorated based on the hours they work (twenty week average). Uniforms will be issued as required.
(f)	Their seniority is calculated on the basis that 40 hours of work equals one week’s seniority.
(g)	There shall be no more than seven unclassified employees without the written agreement of the Grievance Committee.
(h)	Work will be assigned to unclassifieds in the order of their seniority. There shall be three distinct seniority lists (“sides”), one for each of production, distribution, and drivers. If they are qualified, unclassifieds may on a per day basis work on any side, although each unclassified will have a “home” location of one of the three lists. They will have separate seniority for each side and only the work performed on a side will earn credit on that side’s seniority list. If hired to a regular position the employee will be credited with the total seniority of all three lists.
(i)	When a vacancy exists and no regular employee or unclassified employee successfully bids for the job, the senior qualified unclassified in whose “home” location the vacancy exists will be forced to take the position.
(j)	An unclassified worker cannot be used if a regular employee who is able to perform the work is on layoff or scheduled to work less than 40 hours in that week.
F9. All of the foregoing is subject to the understanding that when an unclassified employee, a casual or a student comes in to work, it is to meet a particular need or for a specific purpose, in accordance with this Agreement. Therefore, once at work, he/she can only perform the job he/she was brought in to do.
G1. All classified persons will be given seven (7) calendar days notice of a change of days off, unless mutually agreed between the employee and the Employer, the day the person is notified shall be considered the first of the seven days.
G2. If a classified person is required to change their days off without the seven (7) calendar days notice, then he or she will be paid the premium rate of time and one half (1 1/2) or the applicable rate for off days worked without the appropriate notice, unless mutually agreed upon between the employee and Employer. The day the person is
-30-
notified will be considered the first of the seven notice days.
G3. The scheduled days off will not be changed in any week containing a Statutory Holiday.
G4. All classified persons will be given seven (7) calendar days notice of a shift change of more than three (3) hours. The day the person is notified will be considered the first of the seven notice days.
G5. If a classified person is required to change their shift without the required seven (7) days notice, then he or she will be paid the premium rate of time and one half (1 1/2) for all hours worked outside their regular shift for the days for which notice was not given, unless mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Employer.
G6. All classified persons will be given twelve (12) hours notice of a shift change of three (3) hours or less.
G7. If a classified person is required to change their shift without the required twelve (12) hours notice, then he or she will be paid the premium rate of time and one half (1 1/2) for all hours worked outside their regular shift hours for the day for which notice was not given, unless mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Employer.
G8. At the same time an employee is notified of a shift change as provided in this article, he will also be explicitly advised that it is a “shift change” and will be provided with both a new starting time and new finishing time. Failure by the Company to provide this information will result in full payment for the regular scheduled shift and overtime pay for any hours worked or credited outside the regular scheduled shift.
H. For this article a shift is defined to include an employee’s regular hours of work, breaks and Early Start and/or Extension of Shift overtime. Callback will not be considered in the calculation of the maximum hours of work.
Employees will not be required to work a shift of more than 13 hours. However, if the employee and her supervisor both agree, an employee may work a shift to a maximum of 15 hours and in such cases there must be a minimum of 9 consecutive hours between the end of a shift and the beginning of the next shift.
I1. When an employee works and/or is credited with more hours than his Regular Workday, as defined in Article 14 A2, it will be one of the three types of overtime;
a)	An EARLY START occurs when an employee starts work earlier than his regular workday. An EARLY START must extend into the start of his regular workday.
-31-
b)	An EXTENSION OF SHIFT occurs when an employee works past the end of his regular work day without any period of unpaid time, except for a meal as provided in Article 24H.
c)	A CALLBACK occurs when an employee has finished his regular workday and, after a period of unpaid time, returns to work.
The Company will post a sign-up sheet in each department for employees to indicate their willingness to work additional hours. A sheet will be dated and posted for every day of the week and will be available at least seven days in advance. Employees will be able to add their name to the sheet from the time it is posted up to 2pm of the last weekday (not Saturday, Sunday or Statutory Holiday) prior to the date on the sheet. The form of the sign-up sheet will be as agreed between the parties. Employees who consistently put their name on the sign-up sheet and without valid excuse refuse to work the additional hours when called will not be allowed to put their name on a sign-up sheet for a period of two weeks.
Overtime will be assigned as follows:
a)	EARLY START
Step 1. If the work that is to be assigned will continue without a break into the start of an employee’s regular workday it will be first offered to the employee who is expected to perform the work at the start of his regular workday. If there is more than one employee who would be performing the work at the start of their regular workday the EARLY START will be offered to those employees in order of seniority.
Step 2. If the employee(s) who is expected to perform the work at the start of his or her regular workday is not willing to work the overtime or there is no employee who would have been performing the work at the start of their regular workday, the work will be assigned as a CALLBACK.
b)	EXTENSION OF SHIFT
Step 1. If the work that is to be assigned is a continuation of work that is being performed at the end of an employee’s regular workday it will be first offered to the employee who is performing the work at the end of his regular workday. If more than one employee is performing the work that will continue at the end of the regular workday it will be offered to those employees in order of seniority.
Step 2. If the employee(s) who is performing the work is not willing to work the overtime or no employee is performing the work at the end of his regular workday, the Company, in order of seniority, will canvass the department
-32-
for qualified volunteers who are on the premises.
Step 3. If the above steps do not result in the work being assigned, the Company may, on a rotating basis starting with the least senior, force a qualified unclassified who is working in the Department to work if he is eligible. If that is not possible the Company may, on a rotating basis starting with the least senior, force a qualified classified employee who is working in the department to work if he is eligible.
Employees can only be forced to work either:
a)	a maximum of one hour on an extension of shift, no more than twice in any scheduled workweek, or
b)	once a week, a maximum of two hours on an extension of shift.
At the time an employee is forced, he will be advised whether it is a one or two hour force.
If there is still a requirement for work to be assigned after the above steps the work will be assigned as a CALLBACK.
For EARLY START overtime, employees who are expected to perform the work, or for EXTENSION OF SHIFT overtime, employees who are performing the work, will not be reassigned to perform other work that results in their not being offered the overtime assignment unless it is for valid operational needs.
When an unclassified employee is replacing a classified employee, as per Article 14 F8 (a) (i), in cases of EARLY START or EXTENSION OF SHIFT, the Company can choose to assign the extra work to the unclassified who is replacing the classified employee or they can offer the work to a classified employee in accordance with this article. If the work is not offered to a classified employee and it is assigned to the unclassified who is replacing the classified employee for the shift that starts early or is extended, that unclassified, notwithstanding Article 14 F8 (d), will be paid 1 'A their basic rate. This provision does not apply to CALLBACKS.
When a “crew” works an EXTENSION OF SHIFT and there are students or casuals who were members of that crew during the regular workday and there is a requirement for the work that the students or casuals performed to be continued into the EXTENSION OF SHIFT, such work will be offered, first to any available, senior, qualified employee in the department who is at work, then to any senior, available, qualified employee whose name is on the sign-up sheet who is in the plant. Only after these steps may the work be assigned to the students or casuals who were members of that crew during the regular workday.
-33-
c)	CALLBACK
Step 1. The work that is to be assigned will be first offered in order of seniority to qualified, classified, department employees who have placed their names on the sign-up sheet.
Step 2. If there is still a requirement for employees to work, the work will be offered in order of seniority to qualified, classified, employees from outside the department who have placed their names on the sign-up sheet.
Step 3. If there is still a requirement for employees to work, the work will be offered in order of seniority to qualified, unclassified, employees who have placed their names on the sign-up sheet.
Step 4. If there is still a requirement for employees to work the Company will canvass, in order of seniority, qualified, classified, department employees who did not place their names on the signup sheet.
Step 5. If there is still a requirement to have the work performed the Company will attempt to hire a qualified casual.
Step 6. If there is still a requirement to have the work performed the Company may, on a rotating basis, force a qualified unclassified who is eligible.
Step 7. If there is still a requirement to have the work performed the Company may on a rotating basis force the junior qualified classified in the department who is eligible.
J 1 Work on scheduled days off will be assigned as follows:
Step 1. The work that is to be assigned will be first offered in order of seniority to qualified, classified, department employees who have placed their names on the sign-up sheet described in 14A2.
Step 2. If there is still a requirement for employees to work, the work will be offered in order of seniority to qualified, classified, employees from outside the department who have placed their names on the sign-up sheet.
Step 3. If there is still a requirement for employees to work, the work will be offered in order of seniority to qualified, unclassified, employees who have placed their names on the sign-up sheet.
Step 4. If there is still a requirement for employees to work the Company will canvass, in order of seniority, qualified, classified, department employees who did not place their names on the sign-
-34-
up sheet.
Step 5. If there is still a requirement to have the work performed the Company will attempt to hire a qualified casual.
Step 6. If there is still a requirement to have the work performed the Company may, on a rotating basis force a qualified unclassified who is eligible.
Step 7. If there is still a requirement to have the work performed the Company may, on a rotating basis force the junior qualified classified in the department who is eligible.
K.	Hourly paid workers and haulers that have regularly scheduled work starting between 4:00 p.m. and l0:59 p.m., will be paid a shift differential of 35 cents per hour for those hours. If their shift has regularly scheduled hours starting between 11:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m., the shift differential will be 55 cents per hour for those hours.
Effective May 1, 2001 shift differential will change from 35 cents per hour to 45 cents per hour and from 55 cents per hour to 65 cents per hour.
L.	When an employee is required to report for duty, such employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of 4 hours pay at regular rate. (Premium pay when applicable.) It is understood that nothing in the provisions of this Agreement shall guarantee a forty hour week.
An employee must be able to report within a reasonable period of time.
M.	It is clearly understood that nothing in the foregoing shall prevent the Company from assigning a qualified workforce sufficient to meet the needs of the business.
N.	The regular workweek for all drivers (Bulk Tank Graders, Driver-Salespersons, Long Haul Drivers and Ice Cream Drivers) will be posted in the Appendix.
O.	This Article 14 is not applicable to Bulk Tank Graders and shall not affect the present schedule of work and days off.
P.	Banking Overtime Pay
(It is agreed that the following provisions are a trial only. Either the Company or the Union may, with 30 days written notice, advise the other of its intention to exercise its right to void this article. If this article is voided, all banked pay will be paid out in the next pay period and employees will no longer be able to bank overtime pay or take time off in lieu.)
-35-
Subject to making her intentions known on her timecard, an employee may elect to defer overtime pay and/or pay for work on a day off and take time off with pay at a later time. Such deferred pay shall accumulate as a cash value and be known as lieu time. The Maximum cash value an employee is allowed to accumulate is $1000.00
Lieu time will be credited at the rate the overtime was earned (e.g. a two hour extended shift would equal three times the basic hourly rate in effect at the time).
At any time, an employee can request that Lieu Time be taken as time off with pay. It can be taken in part (one hour minimum) or in whole.
Employees will make any request for Lieu Time to their supervisor. Such requests will be subject to operational needs and staff availability and the granting of Lieu Time shall be at the Company’s discretion. An employee may also request to take Lieu Time in conjunction with their vacation. However, the scheduling of any Lieu Time will not interfere with the vacation choice of another employee.
The Company will respond to requests for Lieu Time in a timely manner.
The Company can request that an employee take Lieu Time in part or whole. However, the employee must explicitly agree to the request before she is scheduled off.
Scheduled Lieu Time will not be cancelled unless the employee is given notice during or prior to his last shift of work before the scheduled Lieu Time. His last shift of work includes any overtime worked on that day.
An employee can at any time, receive part or all of the cash value of her Lieu Time as pay, provided she notifies the Company at least one (1) month in advance of the pay period in which she wishes to receive it.
Lieu Time cannot carry over to the next calendar year. All accumulated Lieu Time, not scheduled, will be paid out on the final pay for the year. Employees cannot bank overtime pay from December 15 to December 31 in any year.
ARTICLE 15 - RULES GOVERNING DRIVER SALESPERSONS
A.	It is mutually agreed that a driver salesperson's duties shall consist of delivery of dairy products, and collecting payment for same. The Employer further agrees to provide adequate cashing-in facilities in order to permit driver salespersons to spend the least possible time in their prescribed settling of accounts.
B.	No driver salesperson shall be expected to clean the outside of his/her truck, but shall be responsible for keeping the cab of the vehicle clean and tidy.
-36-
C.	Upon proper evidence furnished by the employee, to the satisfaction of the Employer, allowance shall be made daily for all goods broken, spilled or soured.
D.	Order sheets, return and cashing sheets shall be in enough copies to supply both the Employer and the employee.
E.	Credit customers shall not be permitted unless authorized by the Employer. Where credit has been so authorized, responsibility therefore shall rest solely with the Employer.
F.	Each driver salesperson shall complete his/her daily return each day before leaving the premises of the Employer.
G.	All driver salespersons shall be furnished each week with a full report of all units sold and the total earnings of the week with all deductions, shortages, and overages indicated thereon. The Employer shall have an employee available during reasonable working hours who is able to assist any driver salesperson in finding a shortage.
H.	No driver salesperson shall start to deliver product before 4:15 a.m. unless otherwise determined by the by-laws of the Municipality concerned.
I.	When wholesale customers are on regular routes of the salesperson (institutions, etc.) the Employer will give consideration to any request by the salesperson to include such accounts in his/her daily deliveries.
J.	Driver salespersons shall be permitted to transfer milk from one route to another and be credited and/or charged with the sale, providing both salespersons report the transaction on the day it occurs.
K.	The Company will endeavour at all times to keep any delay time during loading operations to a functional minimum for driver salespersons and also to monitor loading operations on a continual basis.
ARTICLE 16 - ROUTE CUTTING
A.	It is agreed that when a route is split into two or more routes, the driver whose route is split shall have the first choice as to which route he/she shall work.
B.	The route driver whose route is split shall receive a guaranteed minimum pay to be governed by the four (4) weeks sales average previous to the aforementioned split, for twenty-two weeks following the splitting of the route, with the understanding that the months of July and August shall not constitute the aforementioned four (4) week period,
-37-
except where wages are higher during these months. Should an employee be absent from his/her route during the twenty-two (22) week period, the balance of the guarantee will be paid; week by week, during the weeks following his/her return to that route.
C.	In the event that through increased sales commission, the driver whose route is split is able to make a pay higher than the minimum guaranteed in Section "B" above, it is understood he/she shall be granted such increase.
D.	Should the Employer cut a route for the second time within a period of twelve (12) months, the salesperson concerned shall receive the guaranteed minimum outlined in this Article 16, Section "B".
E.	For the purpose of Sections A and B of this Article, a route will be considered to have been split when:
(a)	It has been divided into two or more routes;
(b)	A portion has been removed and placed on another existing route.
The guarantee shall not apply in the event that:
(a)	The route is cut at the request of the employee;
(b)	The customer is removed from a route at the request of the customer
(c)	The customer is removed from a route, when in the opinion of the Company, such customer must be removed in order to prevent loss of sales to such customer.
F.	When a route is discontinued entirely or split and portions placed on existing routes, the salesperson whose route is discontinued shall be guaranteed their present earnings on any available route for twenty-two (22) weeks.
ARTICLE 17- WAGES
A.	It is agreed by both parties hereto that the wages, salaries, and other conditions outlined in the appendices shall be paid during the term of this Agreement, in addition to any other applicable clause.
B.	Barring machinery breakdown or Acts of God, the Company agrees to have the pay available by 2:00 p.m. at the latest, on Thursday. If a holiday falls on Thursday, the Company will endeavour to pay on Wednesday. The Employer agrees to pay employees
-38-
on a weekly basis.
ARTICLE 18 - UNIFORMS
A.	The Employer agrees to supply yearly, free of charge, to plant employees as follows: four pairs of pants and four shirts or smocks for those employees wearing white clothing, three pairs of pants and three shirts for those employees wearing dark clothes, except for stationary engineers who will be supplied with four of each. The Employer may substitute coveralls, overalls or lab coats for white or dark clothes as long as the total issue (4 white and 3 dark) remains the same. It is understood that the substitution of one coverall, overall or lab coat will be for one pair of pants plus one shirt or one pair of pants plus one smock. Employees working in the cold room may substitute insulated pants in place of pants or overalls in place of pants and shirts. If plant employees require additional clothing before the next year’s supply is issued, they may bring in their old clothing and obtain replacements.
If requested, a winter jacket will be supplied to plant employees who are required to go into the cold room on a regular basis. The first jacket will be cost shared 50/50 with the employee and will be replaced as needed.
B.	Bulk Tank Graders, Long Haul Drivers and Driver Salespeople shall receive, each year, two pairs of trousers, three shirts and one hat. One windbreaker will be supplied in alternate years. A winter jacket will be supplied once every three years, the first jacket to be cost shared 50/50 with the employee. One pair of overalls or coveralls per year shall be supplied to Bulk Tank Graders and Long Haul Drivers if required.
C.	A winter jacket will be supplied to workers in the Bedford milk cold room once every two years; the first jacket will be cost shared 50/50 with the employee.
D.	Appropriate winter suits will be provided to employees in the ice cream shipping area.
E.	The Employer agrees to provide four (4) pairs of coveralls to garage workers. Thermal coveralls shall be supplied for garage workers. Such coveralls shall be used only at work. The Employer agrees to supply yearly, free of charge, to garage employees as follows: four pants and four shirts for those employees wearing dark clothes. Such clothing shall be used only at work. If garage employees require additional clothing before next year’s supply is issued, they may bring in their old clothing and obtain replacements.
F.	The Middleton employee will be supplied with one pair of thermal coveralls for working on the exterior tank in cold weather. Such coveralls shall be used only at work.
G.	Where specialized clothing is required on an occasional basis, a reasonable supply
-39-
will be made available for groups of employees.
H.	The employees shall maintain themselves and their clothing in a neat, tidy and clean condition at all times. Whites will be laundered by the Employer, and the Employer will not hold an employee responsible for the condition of his/her whites resulting from this laundering.
I.	The Employer will use its best efforts to ensure that employees receive their clothing allotment in October of each year.
J.	The Company will pay each year $90.00 plus the actual amount of HST reflected on the receipt toward the cost of approved safety footwear appropriate for the type of work being performed. In the case of employees in the ice cream shipping area, boots will be provided in lieu of the allowance. Footwear must remain on Company property, or be used in the performance of Company business.
K.	The Employer will provide a list of recommended boots. If an employee working in the cold room buys from the list, and the boots are destroyed within a year because of the environment in the cold room, the Employer will pay the boot allowance again if the employee replaces the boots.
ARTICLE 19 - ABSENCES
A.	Union delegates and officers may be absent from work for Union business, but at their own expense and provided the Company has adequate relief available. The maximum time off shall be twenty (20) working days per calendar year.
B.	Temporary Leave of Absence for Union Business:
B1. Leave of Absence, without pay, for the purpose of attending Union schools, conventions, or conferences may be granted by the Company upon written request by the Union subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Leave shall only be granted subject to the operational requirements of the business and the Company's ability to locate suitable replacements.
(b)	A maximum of three (3) employees shall be granted leave at any one time.
(c)	A maximum number of days off that will be granted in a calendar year under this Article will be 100.
(d)	If the employee is elected or appointed to a full time position with the CEP Union, Leave of Absence not to exceed six (6) months shall be granted.
-40-
(e)	Employees granted such leave shall continue to accumulate seniority except that entitlement for vacation pay, sick days and Christmas Bonus shall be reduced by one fifty second (1/52) for each week of absence.
(f)	Coverage under the Security Plan as described in Article 22 may be continued provided the employee or the Union pay the full cost of the coverage. Contribution to the retirement plan may also be continued for a period of up to six months provided the employee continues to pay their portion.
C1. The Employer agrees to grant all employees covered by this Agreement five (5) consecutive days off, commencing from the day after the death, without loss of pay upon the death of their father, mother, brother, sister, wife, husband, child, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandparents, grandchild or legal guardian. Should an employee require extra time off for purposes connected with the bereavement, it is agreed that such time off, up to a maximum of seven days, will be granted without pay, provided that such leave has been requested by the employee and granted by the Company. Time off without loss of pay, to a maximum of one (1) day, will be granted to attend the funeral of a sister-in-law, brother-in-law and spouse's grandparents.
C2. The above shall apply to common-law relationships provided that the employee represents him/herself as married, the parties are co-habitant, and a statutory declaration is made to the company.
D.	An employee will not lose seniority as a result of absence from work provided that such leave of absence has been requested in writing and permission has been granted by the Company in writing. Permission for such leave of absence shall not be unreasonably withheld.
E.	An employee who loses time from his/her regularly scheduled work as a result of jury service shall be paid his/her straight time earnings for the hours he/she would have otherwise worked if he/she turns over to the Company all payments received from the court in respect of the jury service. Time off for jury selection will be handled in accordance with the procedure attached.
ARTICLE 20 - BULLETIN BOARDS
A.	The Employer agrees to permit posting of any notices of Union meetings or other activities on a bulletin board conspicuously placed and provided for that purpose.
B.	Discreet areas will be made on existing bulletin boards for postings only.
ARTICLE 21 - MEDICAL EXAMINATION
-41-
A1. Any medical examination required by the Employer shall be promptly complied with by all employees, provided, however, that the Employer be required to pay all expenses for such examination.
A2. The Employer reserves the right to select their own medical examiner or physician, and the Union may, if in its opinion an injustice has been done, cause an employee to be re-examined at the Union's expense, by its chosen examiner physician. ARTICLE 22 - SECURITY PLAN
A.	The Employer and the employees agree to participate in maintaining a Security Plan involving Group Life Insurance, Dependent Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Medical Benefits, Vision Care, Long Term Disability Benefits, and Dental Care. The Employer agrees to discuss the benefits and costs of this Plan with the Union from time to time as may be required.
B1. Farmers Co-operative Dairy has established a Pension Plan. Membership in the Plan will be mandatory after two (2) years of service. Employees may apply earlier, on a voluntary basis, to join the Plan.
B2. The Company agrees to have two (2) Union members sit on the Pension Committee. It must be clearly understood that these persons must agree to maintain as confidential, all personal information to which they may have access.
ARTICLE 23 - SICKNESS BENEFITS
A.	In order for any employee to receive a sick day for a reason other than illness, they must make a request, in advance of such day, to the department supervisor. The request will be granted only where, in the opinion of the department supervisor or appropriate manager, the employee's absence will not cause disruption to operations and a suitable replacement can be located.
B1. The Company agrees to allow six (6) days (equivalent to 48 hours for those on a five day work week or to 50 hours for those on a 4 day work week) off with pay per calendar year in case of sickness.
B2. New employees will be credited at the time of hiring with a pro-rated number of sick days for use during the balance of the calendar year in which they are hired. On the first January 1st following a new employee’s date of hire, he/she will begin to be covered by the provisions of B1 above.
B3. On or about the last Friday in January of each year, the Employer will pay six (6)
-42-
days pay to any employee who has not been paid for days off sick under this Article during the previous calendar year, and the difference between six (6) days pay and any days drawn on account of sickness in the previous calendar year in the case of all other employees. In the case of new employees, the payout will be the number of sick days to which they were entitled in the previous calendar year under B2 less any days drawn on account of sickness. The above-mentioned sick days shall not be accumulative from year to year. It is understood that one day's entitlement is equivalent to one fifth (1/5) or one fourth (1/4) of a basic week’s pay up to a maximum of 48 or 50 hours as applicable.
C.	Any employee claiming sickness benefits under this Article must produce a doctor's certificate.
D.	The Employer may investigate any report of sickness by visiting the home of the employee reported sick, or by any other means. Any such visit may be made by any official of the Employer appointed for the purpose.
E.	It is understood and agreed between the Employer and the Union that a false report of sickness by any employee shall be grounds for discipline, up to and including dismissal of the employee, and any employee so disciplined shall also forfeit to the Employer any amount of sickness benefits otherwise payable to him/her.
F.	Any employee who leaves the employ of the Employer of his/her own accord, or is discharged, and has received sickness pay under this Article in excess of the amount entitled, shall pay the Employer the amount of such excess, or the Employer may deduct the amount of such excess from any amount owed to the employee by the Employer at the time the employee leaves or is discharged.
G.	As a transitional provision from the previous May - April year to a calendar ear, employees will be credited with four (4) sick days for use during the May -December, 1999, period (prorated for employees hired between May and December), and will be permitted to borrow up to two (2) days’ sick leave from calendar year 2000 for use in 1999. Employees wishing to avail themselves of this option must so elect in writing prior to December 31, 1999. Borrowing from 2000 is permitted only to cover sick days actually taken, not for the purposes of the January payout.
ARTICLE 24- GENERAL
A. Any classified employee presently receiving more than the minimum wages now
existing under the terms of this Agreement will not suffer a decrease through the signing
-43-
of this Agreement, and any classified employee enjoying working conditions more favourable than those stipulated herein shall continue to enjoy same.
B.	Any classified employee who is temporarily transferred from his/her regular job to another job with a higher rate shall be paid the higher rate for the day worked on the higher rated job, provided the time worked is four hours or more per shift on the higher rated job. However, an employee who is temporarily transferred from his/her regular job to another job with a lower rate shall continue to receive his/her regular rate for all the time worked on such other job if this is done for management convenience.
C.	The Union maintains the privilege to negotiate with the Employer wage rates covering new types of work not established by this Agreement. In such cases, the rates agreed upon shall be effective as of the date the said work goes into effect. Should the parties be unable to agree as to the rate to be applied to that job classification, the Union shall have recourse to the Grievance Procedure at the second step.
D.	Employees shall not be permitted to engage in any other major occupation or business during the course of their employment if it interferes with their employment with Farmers Dairy.
E.	The Employer agrees to classify all employees in the bargaining unit and supply a copy of same to the Union.
F.	All employees in the bargaining unit shall receive an extra 1/12 of a weeks pay (guaranteed earnings plus full commissions where it applies), for each full continuous month of service terminating December 31st of each year, same to be given to the employee on December 18th or the nearest banking day, provided that the employee has not resigned or been discharged prior to December 31st.
G.	Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article 24, the Employer and the employees agree that Garage workers are to supply their own tools subject to the following exceptions:
(a)	The Company agrees to cost share on the purchase of tools to a maximum cost of $400. Upon presentation of purchase receipts equal to half this amount on or before April 15th, the Company will reimburse the tool costs to a maximum of $270.
H.	A supper break is to be optional for any employee working one hour or more overtime, such option to be exercised by a production unit as a whole after a vote by a show of hands of the employees in the production unit and the majority of those voting shall carry the decision.
-44-
I.	The Employer agrees to provide adequate lunchroom facilities for all employees who are employed during a meal period. In particular, the Employer agrees to provide sufficient tables and chairs and an adequate eating area for employees working through the evening meal and between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
J1. If an employee makes a written request to the Employer, all records and correspondence in that employee's file shall be made available for that employee to see.
J2. The Company agrees that letters of discipline will be null and void after two (2) years provided:
a)	there is no repeat of the matter disciplined for
b)	no violence
c)	no illegal acts that pertain to Company personnel and/or property
J3. Letters of discipline that involve alcohol or drugs will be null and void after three years provided there is no repeat of the matter disciplined for.
K.	Any employee who is required to appear as a witness by the Company, or its agents acting on the Company's behalf, shall not suffer a loss of regular wages as a result.
L.	Lead Hands will be appointed from time to time at the discretion of management to assist in the maintenance of the proper flow of work.
M.	If an employee is injured at work and requires medical attention, and the attending physician advises that he/she may not return to work that day, the Company will pay his/her wages for the remainder of the regular work day.
ARTICLE 25 - SAFETY
A1. It is the desire of the Company and the Union to maintain high standards of safety in order to continue to eliminate, insofar as possible, industrial accidents and illness. There is hereby established a safety committee consisting of not less than four (4) members, two of whom shall be management employees and two of whom shall be Union employees.
A2. The Committee will determine their own terms of reference, frequency of meetings and inspection tours, and will post the terms of reference as agreed to between Union and Management.
-45-
B.	All reports and recommendations and a written statement of the action taken thereon shall be kept by the safety committee as a permanent record and shall at all times be available to any member of the committee. A written report of Safety Committee Meetings is to be posted.
C.	Where an employee alleges that a machine or equipment is unsafe to operate, the employee may ask for an immediate determination of this by his/her Foreperson and be entitled to have a decision within two (2) hours. If the matter is not settled to the employee's satisfaction, the employee shall refer it to the Safety Committee for determination.
ARTICLE 26 - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
A. Each full time employee who ceases to be a full time employee of the Company by reason of the permanent closing of a department, by the introduction of labour saving equipment, or a permanent layoff for a reduction in the work force, shall be entitled to a severance allowance as follows:
Less than 2 years service 2 - 5 years 5 - 10 years 10 - 15 years 15 - 20 years 20 - 25 years
25 years and over of service
3 weeks 5 weeks 7 weeks 12 weeks 15 weeks 17 weeks 21 weeks
B. Employees who are laid off may elect to receive a severance allowance under this Article 26 either at the time of the layoff or after their recall rights under 9L have expired.
C.	An employee who requests payment of the severance allowance or receives it after his/her recall rights have expired shall have his/her employment with the Company terminated and shall have no further rights under this Agreement.
ARTICLE 27 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
A1. Technological change means the introduction of equipment different in nature from that previously utilized that results in a reduction in manpower requirements. Should such technological change occur, a Joint Committee will be reconstructed to deal with:
(a) retraining;
-46-
(b)	transfers on a voluntary basis to vacant positions with the Company;
(c)	any other such remedies as may be appropriate.
A2. The Committee will be advisory in nature and not executive.
B. The Company will endeavour to make every effort to avoid layoffs.
ARTICLE 28 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
A.	This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from the	to
October 28, 2000, and shall automatically renew itself on each anniversary date unless, within the period of two months prior to October 28, 2000, or any subsequent October 28 thereafter one of the parties hereto notifies the other, in writing, of its intentions to revise, amend or conclude a new Collective Agreement.
B.	The Company and Union agree that all prior Letters of Understanding are void upon signing of this Collective Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE HERETO SIGNED: FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE EMPLOYER
-47-
WAGES APPENDIX "A" - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE
METRO WHOLESALE ROUTES
Commission $ .02 1/2 per equivalent litre on all sales Bonus	.01	per equivalent litre on all sales
above 7500 litres when 8500 litre sales reached
Driving Allowance
Routes averaging in excess of 8500 equivalent litres over a fiscal month to receive bonus on all litres over 7500 per week. All bonuses to be paid monthly.
EFFECTIVE
OCT. 29,2000	OCT. 28, 2001
Up to - 9,999 litres
10.000	- 12,999 litres
13.000	- Up litres
$477.87
$467.87
$457.87
$493.00
$483.00
$473.00
Driving allowance is calculated by averaging weekly sales of prior fiscal month.
Guaranteed Earnings
OCT. 29,2000 $657.87
OCT.28.2001
$673.00
HOLIDAY PAY If not required
To Work
If required To Work
OCT. 29,2000	OCT.28,2001
Up to 9,999 litres	$70.00	$362.02	$369.58
10,000 - 11,499 litres	$75.00	$381.76	$389.32
11,500 - 12,499 litres	$80.00	$391.75	$399.31
12,500 and over	$95.00	$411.52	$419.09
The regular work week for driver salespeople shall consist of either five (5) days or four (4) days per week. Driver salespeople who work five days per week may be required to work Saturdays as regular working days and have another day as their day off in addition to Sunday.
Driver salespeople who work four days per week, shall work three days on a scheduled
-48-
route, the fourth day to be worked as assigned. The delivery schedules will fall within Monday to Saturday inclusively.
CHAIN ROUTES
Driving Allowance
EFFECTIVE
OCT. 29,2000	OCT. 28,2001
$629.84	$644.32
Commission $ .02 per equivalent case (equiv. litres divided by 16)
Days of work - 5 per week
The regular workweek for Chain Store Driver Salespeople shall consist of five days per week. The delivery schedules will fall within Monday to Saturday inclusively.
DEFINITION OF AN EQUIVALENT LITRE - 1 litre of product sold by fluid measure - 1 kilogram of product sold by weight
METRO SPARE DRIVERS
EFFECTIVE
OCT. 29,2000	OCT. 28,2001
Rate of Pay	$657.87	$673.00
The regular workweek for spare drivers will normally consist of five days. When a Spare Driver is covering a four day route for a full week, his regular work for that week shall consist of four days.
If a spare driver is removed from his/her scheduled duties after starting such for that day and is assigned a regular route, he/she will be paid time and one half for all hours worked in excess of the hours required to complete the regular route that he/she is assigned on that day.
Additional Lump Sum (Daily)
1. Chain Route	$10.00
2. Wholesale Route Up to 10,999 L
$26.00
-49-
11,000 - 11,999	$33.00
12,000 - 12,999	$40.00
13,000 and over	$45.00
3. Ice Cream Route	$10.00
SPECIAL DELIVERY DRIVERS (MILK AND ICE CREAM)
Rate of Pay	OCT. 29,2000	OCT. 28,2001
$636.56	$651.20
The work week for special delivery drivers shall be forty (40) hours performed in five (5) days of eight (8) hours each and they shall receive two consecutive days off, one of which will be Sunday.
Overtime work, of a nature generally conceded to be that required of the special delivery drivers, will first be assigned by seniority to this group of employees. Should a volunteer from this group not be available, the work will go to the most senior volunteer in the Metro Wholesale group of drivers.
DRIVERS HELPERS	EFFECTIVE
OCT. 29,2000	OCT. 28,2001
Rate of Pay	$517.70	$529.61
RURAL WHOLESALE ROUTES
Commission $ .01 per unit wholesale .02 per unit retail
OCT. 29,2000
OCT. 28,2001
Driving Allowance	$630.95	$645.46
DEFINITION OF A UNIT -	1 litre or its equivalent of all fluid products except
cream and blend = .88 of a unit
-	250	mL	Blend = .44 of a unit
-	250	mL	Whipping = .88 of a unit
-	500	mL	Blend = .88 of a unit
-50-
500 mL 18% = 1.10
500 mL Whipping = 1.76
1 pound of spread or margarine
500 gm yogourt = 1.654 units
1 - 4 litre bag of spring water = 1.75 units
Juice equivalents as provided to drivers
RURAL SPARE DRIVERS
OCT. 29,2000	OCT. 28,2001
$648.33	$663.25
-51-
WAGES APPENDIX "B" - DRIVER SALESPEOPLE
METRO ICE CREAM	EFFECTIVE
OCT. 29,2000	OCT. 28,2001
Driving Allowance	$641.05	$655.80
Commission $ .01 per equivalent litre METRO ICE CREAM CHAIN ROUTE
OCT. 29,2000	OCT. 28,2001
Driving Allowance	$500.89	$512.41
Commission $ .01 per equivalent litre RURAL ICE CREAM
OCT. 29,2000	OCT. 28,2001
Driving Allowance	$647.77	$662.67
Plus in each year 1% (one per cent) of all sales to regular customers made by driver salespeople including cash and credit sales.
RURAL SEASONAL ICE CREAM
QCT.29.2000	OCT. 28,2001
Driving Allowance	$624.79	$639.16
Plus in each year 1% (one per cent) of all sales to regular customers made by driver salespeople including cash and credit sales.
ICE CREAM SPARE DRIVERS
OCT. 29,2000	OCT.28,2001
Rate of Pay
$648.33
$663.25
-52-
WAGES APPENDIX "C" - DAIRY DIVISION/ICE CREAM DIVISION
EFFECTIVE
OCT. 29,2000	MAY 6, 2001 OCT. 28,2001
PER HR
PROCESSOR	$17.36		$17.76
ASEPTIC PROCESSOR	$16.74		$17.13
FLOATER OPERATOR (must be able to perform 90% of all duties within the Department)	$17.32		$17.71
SHIPPER OPERATOR (holding valid	$16.18		$16.55
Forklift License)	$16.33		$16.70
MACHINE OPERATOR	$16.18		$16.55
SANITATION OPERATOR	$16.18		$16.55
LABOURER	$15.91		$16.27
QUALITY CONTROL	$15.91	$16.18	$16.55
STOCKROOM	$15.44	$16.18	$16.55
PACKAGER	$15.29		$15.64
UNCLASSIFIED	$15.91		$16.27
PLANT OPERATOR	$18.49		$18.91
-53-
WAGES APPENDIX "D" - MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATION
INDUSTRIAL MECHANICS (I.M.) CLASSIFICATIONS
EFFECTIVE
	OCT.29,2000 MAY 6, 2001		OCT. 28,2001
I.M. Entry Level	$16.44	PER HR.	$16.82
I.M. Level 1	$16.72		$17.10
I.M. Level 2	$17.01		$17.40
I.M. Level 3	$18.26		$18.68
I.M. Level 4	$19.81		$20.27
I.M. Level 5	$20.37		$20.83
I.M. Level 6	$20.80		$21.28
I.M. Level 7	$21.20		$21.68
I.M. Level 8	$21.63		$22.13
I.M. Grandfathered	$18.26		$18.68
ELECTRICIAN CLASSIFICATIONS
Electrician Level 1	$20.22	$20.69
Electrician Level 2	$20.80	$21.28
Electrician Level 3	$21.20	$21.68
Electrician Level 4	$21.63	$22.13
WELDER CLASSIFICATIONS
Welder Level 1	$19.25	$19.69
Welder Level 2	$19.67	$20.12
Welder Level 3	$19.25	$21.63	$22.13
-54-
DEFINITIONS OF MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATIONS INDUSTRIAL MECHANIC (I.M.)QUALIFICATIONS
(a) I.M. Entry Level	-Graduate of N.S. Vocational School or
(b) I.M. Level 1	other institution or experience recognized by the Company; and -Qualified to enter N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program -Successful completion of first year of N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and -2000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade
(c) I.M. Level 2	-Successful completion of second year of N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and -4000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade
(d) I.M. Level 3	-Successful completion of third year of N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and -6000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade
(e) I.M. Level 4	-Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and -8000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade
(f) I.M. Level 5	-Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and
-55-
(g) I.M. Level 6	8000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade; and further upon completion of 72 months, Farmers Inplant Experience (F.I.E.) in any Industrial Mechanics classification or upon completion of 24 months F.I.E. in the Level 4 Industrial Mechanic classification -Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in Industrial Mechanics trade; and further upon completion of 96 months F.I.E. in any Industrial Mechanics classification or upon completion of 24 months F.I.E. in the Industrial Mechanics Level 5 classification
(h) I.M. Level 7	-Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade; and further upon completion of 120 months F.I.E. in any Industrial Mechanics classification or upon completion of 36 months F.I.E. in the Industrial Mechanics Level 6 classification
(i) I.M. Level 8	-Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Mechanics Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Mechanics trade; and further upon completion of 144 months F.I.E. in any Industrial Mechanics classification or upon completion of 36 months F.I.E. in the Industrial Mechanics Level 7 classification
(j) I.M. Grandfathered Individuals
-56-
-Keith Gammon Vic Power Bill Benight
ELECTRICIAN	QUALIFICATIONS
(a) Electrician Level 1	-Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Electrician Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Electrical trade
(b) Electrician Level 2	-Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Electrician Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Electrical trade; and further upon completion of 36 months Farmers Inplant Experience (F.I.E.) in the Electrician Level 1 classification
(c) Electrician Level 3	-Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Electrician Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Electrical trade; and further upon completion of 36 months F.I.E. in the Electrician Level 2 classification
(d) Electrician Level 4	-Successful completion of fourth year N.S. Dept. of Labour Industrial Electrician Apprentice Program; and 8000 hours worked in the Industrial Electrical trade; and further upon completion of 48 months F.I.E. in the Electrician Level 3 classification
- 57-
WELDER
QUALIFICATIONS
(a) Welder Level 1
(b) Welder Level 2
(c) Welder Level 3
-8000 hours worked in the Welding trade and must be able to pass Company and Government inspections (may include x-ray) for quality of sanitary stainless steel welds
-Upon completion of 24 months Farmers Inplant Experience (F.I.E.) in the Welder Level 1 classification
-Upon completion of 36 months F.I.E. in the Welder Level 2 classification
1.	An employee in any Maintenance classification shall be immediately reclassified upon successful completion of the requirements listed in the classification schedule.
2.	(a) The following courses will be offered to individuals in Industrial
Mechanics or Power and Refrigeration Technician classifications:
Basic Stick Welding Basic Electronics Hydraulics Pneumatics Forklift Mechanics
Tetra Pak TBA 9, Mechanic Level 1 Course Tetra Pak P.L.E., Mechanic Course Tetra Rex Mechanic Course Machinist
Plus designated future courses as requirements dictate
(b)	All employees in Industrial Mechanics and Power and Refrigeration Technicians classifications, with the exception of those employees in the
I.M. Grandfathered classification, shall be required to complete three (3) of the above mentioned courses as determined by the employer.
Any courses in excess of the three (3) mandatory courses will be offered on a voluntary basis, with seniority, plant requirements, rotation, degree of relevance being used to determine who shall attend courses.
-58-
(c)	All employees in Electrician classifications will be required to complete both the Allen Bradley P.L.C. train Level 1 and Square D P.L.C. training Level 1 course within two years from date of hire. It shall be the responsibility of the employer to schedule these courses.
(d)	All employees in Electrician classifications will receive an extra $3.75 per week per course/block completed for the following courses:
. Journeyman Instrumentation (max. one employee)
. Journeyman Electronic Repair (max. two employees)
This payment will not be considered as part of the employees base rate, rather it will be paid as a "lump sum payment".
(e)	The employer shall continue to cover the registration costs for all mandatory courses and shall continue to cover the costs of airfare, lodging and living expenses (as per company policy) for Tetra Pak and Square D P.L.C. courses given off-site.
3.	Employees in Industrial Mechanic classifications (up to a maximum of two) may by the nature of their jobs, be required to work a normal work week other than the regular work week described in Article 14B or C and in this case, shall have two consecutive days off, one of which shall be Saturday or Sunday.
-59-
WAGES APPENDIX "E" - MIDDLETON
CLASSIFICATION
	EFFECTIVE OCT. 29, 2000	OCT.28, 2001
	PER HOUR	
Machine Operator	$16.28	$16.65
Plant Labourer	$15.91	$16.27
Maintenance (1)	$16.18	$16.55
Maintenance (2)	$15.91	$16.27
Electrician	$16.82	$17.21
Stationary Engineer	$16.41	$16.79
Shipper Operator	$16.28	$16.65
-60-
WAGES APPENDIX "F" - BULK TANK DRIVERS
1.	The regular workweek of a Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operator shall consist of picking up milk from farms on an assigned route or routes for periods averaging five days per week throughout the year. Such routes to be agreed upon by the Company and the Union representative upon origination and before subsequent adjustments are made.
2.	The present system of alternating days of work shall continue during the term of the Collective Agreement.
3.	The Company will attempt to schedule runs to average 40 hours per week. Where this is not practical, overtime will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week.
4.	If a Bulk Tank Grader is required to work on a scheduled rest day, he will be paid as follows for the actual hours worked:
5 day work schedule - first day at time and one half
-	second day at double time if first day off worked
4 day work schedule - first day at time and one half
-	second day at time and one half
-	third day at double time if first and second day off worked
5.	Any Bulk Pick-up Truck Operator required to perform work other than his regular workweek shall be reimbursed for expenses for meals and lodgings incurred as a result of the requirements of this extra work.
6.	Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operators will forfeit the privilege of taking trucks home at night at the discretion of the Company.
7.	Any Bulk Milk Pick-up Truck Operator who shall work Sunday, and that day being one of their regular five (5) days of work, shall be paid an extra one tenth (1/10) of their regular weekly pay for the day in question.
BULK TANK GRADER	EFFECTIVE
OCT.29 ,2000	OCT. 28,2001
Bulk Tank Grader	$653.39	$668.42
Tractor-Trailer
$650.58
WAGES APPENDIX "G" - HAULERS
Bulk Tank Grader
$665.55
-61-
HAULERS
(Tractor-Trailer)
HAULERS (Straight Truck)
MODIFIED LONG HAUL
EFFECTIVE
OCT. 29,2000	OCT.28,2001
PER HOUR
$16.34	$16.72
$16.07	$16.44
PER WEEK
$731.86	$748.69
Plus Commission of 20 per equivalent case for Chainstore deliveries
-62-
WAGES APPENDIX "H" - MERCHANDISERS
FULL-TIME MERCHANDISERS:
EFFECTIVE
OCT. 29,2000	OCT. 28,2001
PER HOUR
Full time Merchandisers -	$15.21	$15.56
With lead hand responsibility	$16.46	$16.84
1.	The regular work week for a full time merchandiser shall be 40 hours per week.
2.	Full time Merchandisers shall receive time and one half (1 1/2) for work performed in excess of 40 hours in one week.
3.	The Employer will supply to the full-time merchandisers each year four pairs of pants and three shirts. If full-time merchandisers require additional clothing before the next year’s supply is issued, they may bring in their old clothing and obtain replacements.
The Employer will pay each year $90.00 plus the actual amount of HST reflected on the receipt toward the cost of approved safety footwear appropriate for the type of work being performed. Such footwear must be used in the performance of Company business.
4.	A per kilometre driving allowance shall be paid to merchandisers for the distance required to be driven between stores. The rate will be set as per company policy.
5.	A maximum of two employees shall be granted vacation at any one time and no vacation shall be granted during the period of December 1st to January 1st.
6.	Full time Merchandisers shall be exempt from Article 14 and 18.
LEAD HAND MERCHANDISERS
This letter only applies to lead hands working as merchandisers in the Bedford Sales Department.
-63-
These individuals are classified for all purposes, including layoff, as full time merchandisers.
A lead hand merchandiser is a full time merchandiser who has been designated by management, and has accepted the position, to be responsible for efficiently coordinating all merchandising related activities for a designated territory.
Lead hand merchandisers are chosen at the discretion of management and should management decide to no longer have any or all lead hand merchandisers or conclude that an employee who is currently assigned this responsibility is not suitable they may take this added responsibility away from that employee. Any decision made by management to remove this responsibility from an employee will not be made in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner or in bad faith. An employee in this situation will maintain their position as a full time merchandiser.
In addition to normal merchandiser duties lead hand merchandisers activities will include ordering products, maintaining proper inventory levels, receiving instructions from the sales representative/supervisor, liasing with store personnel, training other merchandisers, assigning merchandisers to various tasks, reporting any required information to sales representatives/supervisors and other related duties as assigned.
The lead hand merchandiser will maintain quality service levels and report any problems to an appropriate member of management.
It is recognized that lead hand merchandisers may have irregular work hours. Overtime which occurs in the performance of their normal duties will be paid if an employee has worked more than forty (40) hours per week, less holidays and sick days, averaged over a four (4) week period.
The lead hand merchandiser will not discipline employees. The lead hand merchandiser can recommend discipline, but management must carry out its own investigation and make the decision regarding discipline before proceeding.
The lead hand merchandiser will not actively participate in disciplinary actions taken by management including the grievance process and arbitration hearings.
-64-
APPENDIX “H” CONTINUED - MERCHANDISERS
PART-TIME MERCHANDISERS
EFFECTIVE
OCT. 29,2000	OCT. 28,2001
PER HOUR
Part time Merchandisers -	$8.75	$8.95
1.	Part time Merchandisers shall work 24 or less hours averaged over a 4 week period. This provision shall not apply during the period of December 1st -January 10th and May 15th - September 15th, or when they are replacing an employee who is on vacation, sick or injured, or on leave of absence when their hours may exceed the 24 hour limit.
2.	The seniority for each part time merchandiser shall be established after a probationary period of 200 working hours and shall be calculated on the basis of hours worked with the company, with each forty (40) hours worked counting as one (1) week for the purposes of accumulation of seniority.
3.	Part time merchandisers shall be eligible for statutory holiday pay for the number of hours they would have worked if such holiday is part of their regular schedule, provided they report for work their scheduled day before and their scheduled day after.
Part time merchandisers shall be paid at a rate of time and one half their regular rate of all hours worked on a holiday.
4.	Vacation pay for part time merchandisers will be 4% of their earnings. Part-time merchandisers can elect on an annual basis whether to receive their vacation pay in each pay period or to accumulate it and receive it at the time they take vacation.
5.	Christmas bonus will be paid to part time merchandisers in the amount of $100.00.
6.	The Employer will supply to the part-time merchandisers on hiring one pair of pants and one shirt, and will supply additional pants and shirts if required to a maximum of four pairs of pants and three shirts each year. If part-time
-65-
merchandisers require additional clothing before the next year’s supply is issued, they may bring in their old clothing and obtain replacements.
The Employer will pay each year $45.00 plus the actual amount of HST reflected on the receipt toward the cost of approved safety footwear appropriate for the type of work being performed. Part-time merchandisers may utilize their receipt from each purchase of safety footwear in each of two consecutive years in order to recover the full $90.00 allowance over a two-year period, however the HST will be reimbursed only once. Such footwear must be used in the performance of Company business.
7.	A per kilometre driving allowance shall be paid to merchandisers for the distance required to be driven between stores. The rate will be set as per company policy.
Part time merchandisers shall be exempt from Article 8, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 22, 23 and 24F.
In the case of a part time merchandiser who moves into a full time position, he/she shall be entitled to the provisions of the Collective Agreement which apply to full time employees.
Any full-time employees who exercise his/her seniority rights by bumping into a part- time merchandiser position shall not lose entitlement to the provisions of Article 22A for a period of four (4) months from the day they become a part time merchandiser.
8.	A part time merchandiser who bids on and receives any full time position must complete a sixty (60) working day probationary period as per Article 8 C. Should they be unsuccessful in completing the probationary period they will be reinstated to their part time position.
-66-
APPENDIX "I" - BOILER ROOM
CLASSIFICATION QUALIFICATIONS RATE OF PAY
EFFECTIVE
OCT. 29,2000	OCT.28,2001
Stationary Engineer 4th Class Stationary $18.59 Level 1	Engineer - Boiler ticket
and 2nd Class Stationary Engineer - Refrigeration ticket
$19.02
Stationary Engineer 3rd Class Stationary $20.31 Level 2	Engineer - Boiler ticket
and 1st Class Stationary Engineer - Refrigeration ticket
$20.78
Stationary Engineer - Stationary Engineer Spare	Level l classification
minimum
appropriate rate plus 500 per hr.
Power and Refrig-	Journeyman Industrial
eration Technician	Mechanics ticket plus
4 th Class Stationary Engineer - Boiler ticket and 2nd Class Stationary Engineer - Refrigeration ticket
appropriate rate as per Industrial Mechanics Classification F.I.E. schedule (appendix D) plus $20.00 lump sum payment.
1.	An employee in any Stationary Engineering classification shall be immediately reclassified upon successful completion of the requirements listed in the classification schedule.
It is understood that automatic re-classification does not apply for the Power and Refrigeration Technician position unless a vacancy exists.
2.	Employees in stationary Engineer classifications who are required to work twelve (12) continuous hour shifts shall work a 3 on/3 off shift format, alternating with a day and night rotation. The regular hours of work for the twelve (12) hour
-67-
continuous shift schedule shall be spread over six (6) consecutive weeks, that is three (3) weeks of thirty six (36) hours and three (3) weeks of forty eight (48) hours.
3.
The work week for all employees covered by the classifications in this appendix starts at 0600 hours Sunday and ends the following Sunday at 0600 hours.
4.	(a) Any work performed in excess of regular scheduled hours of work shall
constitute overtime and shall be paid at one and one-half times the employee's straight time classified rate.
(b) Employees in Stationary Engineer classifications who are required to work on their scheduled days off shall be paid
(i)	at one and one half times the employees straight time classified rate for all hours worked on their first and second scheduled days off
(ii)	at two times the employee's straight time classified rate for all hours worked on their third scheduled day off
5.	Any employee(s) whose schedule calls for him/her to work on a holiday as defined in Article 12A, shall be the person who works that holiday and shall be paid as per Article 12.
When a paid holiday occurs on an employees scheduled day off and the employee is not required to work, he/she shall be paid the applicable hours that are called for in their schedule. On a paid holiday stationary engineer spare operators will be paid ten (10) hours) unless they are covering a regular employee who is off as per Article 9F in which case they will be paid as a regular stationary engineer.
6.	For the purpose of determining the sickness benefits as described in Article 23, it is understood that those employees working the twelve (12) continuous hour shifts shall be eligible for a maximum of 50 hours under this entitlement.
7.	Employees covered by the classifications in this appendix shall be eligible to receive shift differential as described in Article 14K.
8.	For the purpose of Article 13B7(i) and Article 24F, the number of hours in an employee's work week shall be assumed to be forty (40).
9.	Employees covered by the classifications in this appendix shall be exempt from
-68-
Article 12E1, 12E2 and Article 14 unless otherwise specified.
10.	Employees will be paid for hours actually worked in each workweek (ie. 36 or 48 straight time hours).
11.	An employee in any Stationary Engineering classification shall not work beyond 15 continuous hours except in the case of emergency. Each employee must have 9 hours between the end of their previous shift, including any overtime hours, and the beginning of their next shift.
12.	Employees in the stationary engineer spare classification will be paid in the following way: when they work a forty-eight (48) hour shift they have the choice to be paid forty (40) regular hours and save eight (8) regular hours or be paid the total forty-eight (48) regular hours. In the weeks in which they work thirty-six (36) regular hours they will be paid thirty-six (36) regular hours and may draw on their saved hours to top up their pay. Saved hours may be taken at other times with the permission of the department supervisor.
-69-
APPENDIX “J” - DRIVER JOB BIDDING AND BUMPING CRITERIA
CLASS 03
•	must be 19 years of age or older
•	must have a valid Nova Scotia drivers license for at least 3 years
•	must provide satisfactory medical and optical report prior to training
•	must provide a recent driving abstract from the Nova Scotia Registry of Motor vehicles to be reviewed by the Distribution Supervisor/Trainer
•	must comply with current and future pre-requisites for commercial drivers as outlined in the Provincial Safety Code
•	candidates for driver training will be assessed by a qualified Trainer to ensure that they demonstrate the ability to obtain a license within a reasonable period of time
CLASS 01 (excludes bulk tank - live loads)
•	must be 19 years of age or older
•	must	have a valid class 03 Nova Scotia license with air brake endorsement
•	must	have at least one year of experience in operating a vehicle registered
in excess of 14,000 kg during the past 2 years
•	must	provide satisfactory medical and optical reports prior to training
•	must	provide a recent driving abstract from the Nova Scotia Registry of
Motor Vehicles to be reviewed by the Distribution Supervisor/Trainer
•	must comply with current and future pre-requisites for commercial drivers as outlined in the Provincial Safety Code
•	candidates for driver training will be assessed by a qualified Trainer to ensure that they demonstrate the ability to obtain a class 01 license within a reasonable period of time
•	for employees who currently hold a class 01 licence and have had at least 2 years experience driving Farmers Dairy vehicles requiring a class 01 license, the previous point will not apply and there will be an assessment to determine whether they can satisfactorily perform the driving component of the job they are applying for or seeking to bump into.
If the position is awarded to a newly licensed class 01 driver, whether on a posting
or a bump, he/she will be required to perform 160 hours on the road training with
an experienced driver prior to operating a Farmers vehicle
-70-
CLASS 01 - Bulk Tank (Live Load)
•	must be 19 years of age or older
•	must	have a valid class 01 Nova Scotia license with air brake endorsement
•	must	have at least 3 years of experience (minimum 200 hundred hours per
year) in operating a vehicle requiring class 01 license during the past 4 years or 2 years experience driving bulk tank (minimum 200 hours per year) in the previous 4 years.
•	must	provide satisfactory medical and optical reports prior to training
•	must	provide a recent driving abstract from the Nova Scotia Registry of
Motor Vehicles to be reviewed by the Distribution Supervisor/Trainer
•	must comply with current and future pre-requisites for commercial drivers as outlined in the Provincial Safety Code
•	candidates for the driver training will be assessed by a recognized training institute to ensure that they demonstrate the ability to haul ‘live loads’
Following the awarding of the position, whether on a posting or on a bump, the
successful candidates will be required to perform 160 hours on the road training
with an experienced “bulk tank” driver prior to operating a Farmers vehicle
carrying ‘live loads’.
-71-
RAIN GEAR POLICY
Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited agrees to supply adequate rain gear to applicable employees provided they read over the following policy and sign, if agreed, at the bottom of the page.
1.	All rain gear is the property of Farmers Co-operative Dairy Limited and will be used for work related duties only.
2.	Torn or damaged rain gear will be repaired or replaced by Farmers provided the items are returned to the supervisor. Lost or stolen items will be the responsibility of the employee and will, therefore, be replaced immediately by them.
3.	A signed copy of the issue will be given to the employee, their supervisor and Personnel for their file.
4.	Should an employee terminate employment with Farmers Dairy, the gear shall be returned to the supervisor before they issue the employee's final pay.
Issue:
Received by: ______________________________ Date:
Authorized by: ____________________________ Date:
-72-
MAINTENANCE POLICY STATEMENT
Farmers Co-operative Dairy is committed to the ultimate goal of having all personnel in Maintenance classifications attain journeyman status through the Nova Scotia Department of Labour Apprentice Training Program. To facilitate this, Farmers Dairy will sign an Apprentice Training Agreement for any employee in a Maintenance classification who is interested in completing their apprenticeship. Every individual (with the exception of those Grandfathered individuals) in a Maintenance classification below journeymen status must enrol in the Apprentice Program, and also sign a letter of intent outlining their desire to complete their apprenticeship and abide by the following conditions.
1.	An individual who fails to pass a block examination after attending course for two times may be dropped from the Apprentice Program and at that time will have their position at Farmers Dairy re-assessed in discussions between management and the union.
2.	An individual who fails to pass a block examination and then fails to attend two consecutive offerings of the same block without a valid reason acceptable to management, may be dropped from the Apprentice Program and at that time will have their position at Farmers Dairy re-assessed in discussions between management and the union.
In return, Farmers Dairy agrees that the following conditions shall be in force for those individuals who enrol in the Apprentice Program:
1.	Any individual interested in attending a block course shall make a request in writing to the Company in reasonable time before its offering. When more than one individual applies to attend a block course at the same time and conflict exists, seniority, rotation, and the length of time since last attending a block course will be used to determine who shall attend.
2.	As a means of support for those individuals that are going on course during their Apprenticeship, Farmers will offer a monetary bonus for those who successfully complete each block. This bonus will be equal to the two weeks pay which were lost awaiting U.I.C. benefits to begin, plus a "topping off" amount equal to the difference between what is received as weekly gross wages from U.I.C. and what is a current week (40 hrs.) pay for that individual for each of the remaining weeks on course. The bonus will be paid upon notification of successful completion of the course. Those who fail to pass the block examination will not be eligible for the bonus.
-73-
Should an individual leave the employment of the Dairy within one year after receipt of their bonus, they would agree to repay the bonus in an amount equal to 1/12th of the total for each month remaining to reach one year. (For example, if an individual left after 5 months of receiving their bonus, they would have to repay 7/12ths of the total.)
3.	Any writing of block examination credits for third or forth level without prior course attendance must have approval in writing by the Company.
4.	All mechanics will supply the tools listed in Schedule A (attached). Each
mechanic will be given a yearly tool allowance of $200.00 paid on or before June 1 of each year.
It is agreed that this policy will remain in full force and effect during the term of the Collective Agreement dated___________________________.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
DATE
-74-
Schedule A - Maintenance Basic Tool List
Upon hire, each maintenance mechanic shall supply the tools listed below.
The tools listed must be of a brand covered by a lifetime warranty (for some items it will not be possible to get a warranty).
Each mechanic will be given a yearly tool allowance as per the Collective Agreement.
Lost, broken, or stolen tools not covered under warranty will be the responsibility of the mechanic and shall be replaced at the mechanics’ expense.
A new toolbox will only be purchased when the maintenance supervisor has assessed the old toolbox and deems it unusable. The mechanic will use one year's tool allowance toward the purchase of the toolbox and Farmers will cover the rest. The toolbox will become the property of the mechanic. (Maximum cost of the toolbox is $500.00)
Bask Tool List for Mechanics
*	l Grease gun
*	1 Trouble light
*	1 Measuring tape
*	1 Hacksaw
*	1 Hammer
*	1 Side Cutters
*	1 Linesman pliers
*	1 Needle nose pliers
*	1 Channel lock pliers
*	1 Retaining ring pliers - internal
*	1 Retaining ring pliers - external
*	1 10" pipe wrench
*	1 Set of wrenches up to 1"
*	1 Set of wrenches up to 24 mm
*	1 Hex key wrench set - standard
*	1 Hex key wrench set - metric
*	1 Socket set up to 3/4"= 38" drive
*	2 Slotted screwdrivers
*	3 Robertson screwdrivers #1, #2, #3
*	2 Phillips screwdrivers
*	1 Toolbox
-75-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SPLIT SHIFTS
This letter will confirm our understanding reached at negotiations with respect to "split shifts".
The present use of split shifts shall remain in practice at the distribution branches. It is not the intent of the company to extend this practice to Bedford operations.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
DATE
-76-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - DISTRIBUTION OF WORK ON HOLIDAYS
This will confirm our agreement reached at negotiations regarding the distribution of work on holidays recognized in Article 12.
Work which occurs on these holidays should be offered to the senior qualified employee in the department. Should the senior employee in the department not wish to work, the work will be offered to the next senior qualified employee and so on. Should additional employees be required the work will be offered by seniority to qualified employees within the seniority group. Should additional employees be required the work will be offered by seniority to qualified employees within the branch. Should no qualified employee wish to work the holiday and no suitable student or casual replacement can be found, the junior qualified employee will be forced to work. Forcing employees to work will be done on a rotating basis, for example, the junior employee forced to work on one holiday will not be forced to work the next.
The exception to this procedure will be the Bulk Tank Hauling Department who will continue to follow their current procedures for assigning work on holidays.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
DATE
-77-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - RETURN TO WORK
An employee who returns to work after an absence due to illness or injury within the time limits laid out in Article 8E1 and 8E2 shall return to his/her same job provided he/she is able to perform the work. An employee who returns after these time limits have expired, or within the time limits but is unable to perform their former job, will displace a junior employee in his/her former department providing they can perform the required work satisfactorily. Should he/she not be able to perform the work of a junior employee in their former department, they will displace a junior employee in their seniority group, providing they can perform the required work satisfactorily. Should he/she not be able to perform the work of the junior employee in their seniority group, they will displace a junior employee in the branch, providing they can perform the required work satisfactorily. In either case, the employee who is displaced may exercise his/her seniority rights as per Article 9J of the Collective Agreement.
In the event that an employee is unable to perform any of the positions as described above, management and the union shall meet to discuss what alternative options might be available to the employee.
An employee's eligibility to perform the required work satisfactorily shall be determined
by:
the employee obtaining a physician's signature on a document provided by management and the union indicating that the employee is physically able to perform all the duties required for the position.
A short familiarization period.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
DATE
-78-
UTILIZATION OF STUDENTS
This will confirm our understanding reached at negotiations regarding the use of students.
Students will be employed from the period of April 15 through to September 15 of the same calendar year. Students may be used to perform seasonal work, to replace employees who are on vacation, who are sick or injured, when there are insufficient volunteers for overtime and to cover leaves of absence.
The number of students who are employed at any one time shall be limited to the following unless they are increased by mutual agreement:
Area:	Number:
Production	12
Shipping	12
Services	5
Distribution and
Merchandising	4
Distribution Centres	10
43
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE COMPANY:
DATE
-79-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SENIORITY OF NEW GROUPS
Effective May 4, 1992, Seniority of new groups unionized as of December 3, 1991 shall
have their seniority calculated from their most recent date of hire.
Part Time Merchandisers shall have their seniority calculated for time worked with the
company.
For the purposes of this "Letter of Understanding":
-	Part Time Merchandisers shall only be given seniority credit for the days they actually work
-	It is understood that this letter only applies to the employee who joined the union on December 3, 1991 and in no way affects or interferes with any personnel adjustments, including bumping, lay off or job postings that occurred prior to May 4, 1992.
-	The use of "most recent date of hire" for seniority calculation shall only be applicable to the employees who joined the union as of December 3, 1991.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
DATE
-80-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - ON-GOING PROCESS
The intention of the parties is to establish an ongoing process by which they can negotiate and resolve the remaining bargaining issues and any new issues that may arise.
Participants:
From management - Paul Shapleigh, Joanne Brown, Kim Hamilton, Terry Anderson
From union - Local Union President plus TBA Scheduling of Meetings:
Meetings to be held on the last Tuesday of each month, beginning in October, 1999. The parties will first hold their monthly grievance meeting and will then move to the ongoing process meeting as soon as the grievance meeting is finished but no later than 12 noon (any unfinished business from the grievance meeting will be deferred to the next grievance meeting).
Structure of Meetings:
An agenda will be developed and circulated a week in advance of the meeting, but the agenda will always have a “new business” section.
The parties agree to come to the meeting prepared to discuss the agenda items in order to minimize the need for caucuses and maximize the use of meeting time. The parties agree to use the IBN process during the meetings.
Minutes of the meetings will be kept and circulated to the participants following the meeting (and in sufficient time that they can be used to prepared for the next month’s meeting).
The meetings will be held at Farmers subject to getting meeting room space. Agreements Reached:
How an agreement reached is formalized will depend on the nature of the agreement and specifically on whether an amendment to the collective agreement is required to implement the resolution of the issue.
The union committee will be taking agreements back to the membership for resolution on an issue-by-issue basis.
Communication of issues resolved and other outcomes will be determined by the parties on a case-by-case basis.
There is no restriction on the issues that can be brought forward by the parties, but if the other party will not discuss an issue, or an issue cannot be resolved in this process, the party advancing it must put it on their bargaining agenda for the next round of formal negotiations.
If a party is frustrated by the process, it must call for help to Laurie Rantala -
-81-
unilateral quitting of the process is not permitted.
Start-up agenda:
The parties will review their respective bargaining agendas and decide which items are still issues and therefore need to go on the agenda for discussion and resolution in the ongoing process. The parties agree to develop their lists of agenda items and send it to the other party (management will send to Local Union President, union will send to Joanne Brown) no later than the close of business on Friday, October 8, 1999.
-82-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - MERCHANDISERS
This will confirm our understanding reached at negotiations that the three employees listed below will be recognized as full time merchandisers. As such each of these employees will be granted union seniority as per the collective agreement.
Ted Thompson Steve Clattenburg Jeff Dowling
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION	DATE
-83-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - NUMBER OF MERCHANDISERS
This will confirm our understanding reached at negotiations regarding the review of part time merchandising positions. It is agreed that a review has been undertaken of all part time merchandiser work in an attempt to increase the number of full time merchandising positions. This review has indicated that there will be three new full time positions. These jobs will be posted on the signing of the collective agreement
The total number of full time merchandisers will be fifteen. If the number of full time merchandisers falls below this level the union and the company will meet to discuss the ratio of full to part time merchandisers.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION	DATE
-84-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - SHIFTS
This will confirm our understanding reached at negotiations regarding employees who work shifts which cross over two days, one of which is part of a weekend. It is agreed that employees who have requested and are permitted to work this type of shift due to their own convenience will be allowed to continue this practice. It is understood that these employees are not entitled to any premium pay to which they would have otherwise been entitled due to the nature of their shift. Each of these employees will be required to sign off on their agreement. By signing off they are not agreeing to waive any premium to which they are entitled due to working hours outside their normal shift (ie. If they are required to come in earlier or stay later than their normal shift or for a call in). Either the company or the employee with seven (7) days written notice copied to the union can terminate these agreements.
If any of these positions are vacated or changed they will not be posted as weekend work shifts.
If any other employee wishes to enter into an agreement to work hours that fall into this category they must make a request to their supervisor who will examine the request against operational requirements. If the request is granted the employee will be required to sign an agreement as established above and the union will be provided a copy.
Employees who are currently in shifts which cross over two days for their own convenience are:
P. Braun
L.	Mason K. Chin W. Dunphy A Cipak
M.	Sampson J. MacDonald
Following is a list of employees who currently work a shift which crosses over two days one of which is a weekend shift. These employees will either have their shifts changed so that it no longer falls into the weekend day or they can enter into an agreement as set out above:
J. Coffin M. Jollota M. Crawley J. Lefebvre
-85-
D. Aft S. Chayter
There are a number of positions which currently are required to cross over two days one of which is part of a weekend and are paid premium pay for the hours which are on a weekend day. The following positions fall into this category:
Processor Sanitation Operator Milk Filling Operator
It is agreed by both parties that the positions held by the following people have been properly posted as having shifts which include weekend work at straight time pay as per Article 14 D 1:
C. Nussey R. MacLean R. Sekhon
C.	Knockwood
D.	Anderson M. Bigney
J. McManus A. Bennett
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
DATE
-86-
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - WEEKEND WORK
On March 29, 1996, Bruce Outhouse issued an Arbitration Decision concerning the assignment of weekend work. The decision clearly addressed the matters raised in the grievance but left a number of issues still unresolved. Rather than return to the Arbitrator at this time, the parties have agreed to the following;
A)	This Agreement applies to inside workers only.
B)	There are only four possible ways an employee can be assigned to work Saturday or Sunday as regular work days;
1)	Reschedule employees who currently work Monday to Friday to work Saturday or Sunday.
2)	Create, post and fill new positions that have Saturday, Sunday or both as regular workdays such that the total number of employees in the department increases.
3)	Take existing Monday to Friday work and transfer it to a new job that has Saturday, Sunday or both as regular work days, post and fill the position, then through layoff eliminate a Monday to Friday position. The total number of employees in the department will remain the same.
4)	Post and fill an existing, previously occupied, weekend position that has become vacant.
C)	The Company will not reschedule employees who currently work Monday to Friday to work Saturday or Sunday as a regular workday. (# 1 above)
D)	The Union will not object to the Company creating new positions that have Saturday, Sunday or both as regular work days provided that these new positions will not cause or result in the lay-off of any Monday to Friday workers and that the total number of employees in the department will increase. (# 2 above)
E)	If the Company intends to take existing Monday to Friday work and transfer it to a new job that has Saturday, Sunday or both as regular work days (# 3 above), it will;
1)	In advance, notify the Union in writing of the nature of the job and why weekend work is necessary
2)	Convene a meeting with the Union Grievance Committee to fully discuss the matter and explore other possible solutions that minimize weekend assignments.
3)	Only if the Union Grievance Committee agrees that weekend work is acceptable for the new job the Company will;
-87-
a)	In order of seniority, canvass the department for volunteers for the new job.
b)	If there are no volunteers for the new job, post the position as contemplated in Article 9.
c)	As the filling of the new job will result in increasing the number of employees in the department, the Company may reduce the number of employees in the department back to the level that existed prior to the new job being filled. Reduction will be through a normal layoff in accordance with Article 9 except that prior to awarding the posted position to the successful candidate, the Company will indicate to the junior department employee that is to be laid off the name, department and seniority of the successful candidate. If the junior department employee is senior to the successful employee and chooses to bump into the new job he will be given the job and the successful candidate who bid on the new position will stay in his old position. The junior department employee who bumps into the new job will not be able to bid on another position for six months.
F)	The Union will not object to nor is Union Agreement necessary for the Company to post and fill an existing, previously occupied, vacant weekend position (# 4 above). However the Union may request that the Company comply with steps E 1 and 2 above.
The Parties agree that either of them, for any reason, with written notice to the other can cancel and void this Letter of Agreement. If this Letter is cancelled and voided, neither weekend work assignments that occurred after January 1, 2000 nor this Letter of Agreement will be used as evidence in any grievance or arbitration proceeding concerning weekend work. Further, this Letter or any understanding of the operation of the Collective Agreement regarding weekend work expressed in this Letter is without prejudice to any position either party may take in the future regarding weekend work.