mxaozacG:.
BEATWCEFGODS ffilG
MQDERHQAIRIES
WlNNlPEOOIVtSION
EXWRVWT6:JAN.»1,1998

ARTICLE 1 -PURPOSE......................................... 1
ARTICLE 2 -RECOGNITION..................................... 1
ARTICLE 3 -SCOPE...........................................1
ARTICLE 4-MANAGEMENT CONTROL ......................... Page
ARTICLE 5-UNION SECURITY.............................. Pag*
ARTICLE 8 GRIEVANCE COMMITTSEANO PROCEDURE ........... Page
ARTICLE T -ARBITRATION ............................... Page
ARTICLE 8-SENIORITY................................... Page
ARTICLE 9 -TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE....................... Page
ARTICLE 10 -BULLETIN BOARDS ....................;..... Page
ARTICLE 11 -SUPPLY OF WORK CLOTHING................... Pag*
ARTICLE 12 -ACCOUNTING TIME........................... Pag*
ARTICLE 13-SALESMENS STARTING TIME ................... P*o*
.ARTICLE 14 -ROUTE REDUCTION.......................... Page
ARTICLE 15 -CASES AfO EQUIPMENT ...................... Page
ARTICLE 16 -SALESMENS-BONDS.........................   Pag*
ARTICLE 17 -SALESMEN NOTTOCHL AND REPAFl TRUCKS ...... Page
ARTICLE la -CHECKINGROUTE BOOK........................ Page
ARTICLE 19 -SUFFICIENT HELP TO BE PROVIDED ........... Page
ARTICLE 20 -SALESMEN TO ASSIST EACH OTHER ............ P*B*
' 'ARTICLE21 -CREDIT ACCOUNTS......................... Pag*
ARTICLE 22-ACCIDENT LOSS ............................. Pag*
ARTICLE 23 -ROUTE AND JOB POSTING..................... Page
ARTICLE 24-TERMINATING EMPLOYMENT..................... Page I
n Id <& Cl'tt
Expiry Date: January 31,1998
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:	BEATRICE FOODS INC..
MODERN DAIRIES - WINNIPEG DIVISION (hereinafter referred to as She •Company")
AND:	RETAIL. WHOLESALE CANADA
CANADIAN SERVICE SECTOR DIVISION OF UMTED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA AFL-CIO, CLC, AND ITS LOCAL 755 (hereinafler referred to as tha “UntarT)
arucle i - PURPOSE
101	The general purpose at tills Agreement is to establish mutuafy
^sfacto»Y relations between the Company and is empteyeesand to provide machinery far the prompt and equitable disposition of giiwanoas. and to eafebWi and. maintah satisfactory working canriitae, haunt of work and wages tor a> employees who are subject to the provisions of (Ms Agreement.
ARTICLE 2'	RgCOONmON
2.01	The Company recognizes the Uni..
bargaining agent ofal employees- of Eie Company wHHn die scope of mm AumemanL
ARTICLE 3- SCOPE
3.01	a) Tha scope ofttw Agreement aha* cow a» employees of
the Company save and: except Main Office Stall. Stationary Enrfneeie. Fireman. Foremen and those above tha rank o< Foremen.
b)	Al matters relating to regular pert-tine, temponny^semnal
part-time, or casual employees hdmfing ltieir wagee, hours and wortnng Condfflena
Page 2
shall be only as setout in Appendix "B" attached hereto.
c)	The Company veil supply the Union with a first of foreran,
superintendents, members of the Management Committee and other persons wife authority, and wifi keep such list up to date.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT CONTROL
4.01	Resporwibifity far planning. dinectrg and cnrtroling thebusewssof the Company shall rest exclusively with Management, provided tat these functions are exercised in a manner tat wft not conlict with the terms and conditions of the Coiective Agreement The Company retains hi management rights except as specifically modified elsewhere in this Agreement
4.02	A probationary employee may be discharged without cause and at the sote discretion of Ihe Company. Such employee does not have recourse to the grievance and arbitration sections of this Agreement
ARTICLE S • UNION SECURITY
5.01	a) All present employees now members of the Union as a
condition of employment must remain members in good standing during the Me of the Agreement AS new employees must become and remain members in good atandsig with die Union within tarty (30) days of tair staffing data of antptaymant during tie fife of this Agreement. The Company writ advise the Union Steward wifitin one (1) working day of the hiring of a new amptoyee.
The Company a^ees to give a memo to every new employee with his first pay cheque indicating to said employee that he is to join the Union within thirty (30) days of being hired.
b)	The Company agrees upon a compulsory check-off of Union dues upon al employees who Cat within the bargaining unit as certified by the Maadoba Labour Rotations Board and sha* transmit the amount so deducted to the Union upon authorization by the employee prior to the 15th day of eachmcnth. Ail laid off employees who return to work temporarily shal pay dues.
c)	Subject to the Labour Retedons Act S M. T9S7, cL10s7B
(1)(aMb), (0.876(3).
ARTICLE 6 -
Page 3
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE AND PROCEDURE
6.0^	STEP*	in Me ewe** Man employee feet* (hat he Ms
been aggrieved, he shall immediately iafce the matter up wth toe Shop Steward of that Department as soon as it is
possible to do so Wing into consideration toe operation of toe job, so that notoing is si anyway disrupted.
STEP 2	The Shop Steward sha* then take the matter op
with the antire Grievance Committee and tha Committee shall make a request far a meeting with the Fleet and Oistriiulian Manager or Plant Supertaendent whichever live case may be. The Fleet and Distribution Manager Or the Plant Superintendent sha* give his dedsron.
STEP 6	Failing satisfactory settlement then srithin three (3)
working days of the decision at Step 2, toe ComiriHtea shaf submit a written statement of such grievance, dated and signed by the employee, along with a written request for a meeting vrito the Manager of the Company or his designate Hie nature of toe grievance, the articte of the Agreement that has bean violated, mtaaoctad. or misinterpreted and the relief or remedy sought shad be dearly set out m toe grievance,
A meeting shat taka place within a further three {3} woridng days and the partes shal attempt to settle the dispute as quiddy as possible. The grievor shall attend the meeting. As this point the Union business agent may be called in at the request of either patty. Any decision sha* be given in writing within one (1) working day of ihe above meeting.
6.02	to mkmsb ana ftne maunra used sha* tie workhg days and
shall not include Saturdays, Sundays, or statutory Hobdays.
ARTICLE 7- ARBITRATION
7.01	In the ament that toe parties are sll not in agreement then either party may invoke arbitration- Eeitoaf party requests arbitration Ihey shall give to toe otoer party such notice in witting witoto ton (10) days after Step 3 has been completed, and at the same Hme shal name their appointee.
7.02	The recipient of Ihe notice shall within ten (10) working days nominate and notify the other party of their sppninte*.
703	the two appointees shal communicate within five (5) days of toe
appninlment of Ihe second of them for the purpose of selecting a third party who start
Page 4
be Chairman.
7.04	Inme event that the second party feUs to appoint in the time allotted or the two appointees fail to agree the Minister of Labour shall so appoint.
7.05	The decision of the majority of the Board shallbe final and binding upon both parties and each party shall pay the expenses of the Chairman of the Board.
7.05	No mattermay be submitted to arbitration which has not gone through the unevanoe Procedure, and the Board may not make any decision inconsistent with this Agreement nor alter <r modify this Ayeemetf.
7.07	No person may serve on a Board of Arbitration vrho has been
involved in an attempt b negotiate or settle the grievance.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
8.0f	a}	The Company agrees to recognize tie length of seniority
within department in making promotions, transfer, Sting new position, vacancies, law-ops and redoing within Ihe groups, provided the na one employee nasmeaoety to perform the duties to be performed.
When a temporary lay-off occurs, employees w» be catad back to work on a seniority basis and in reverse order of layoffs. The Company wil notify ihe Union Office when an employee vrho has been laid off is caled back to work.
b) The Company agrees to forward to the Union Committee within thirty (30) days of Ihe signing of this Agreement a fed of the foil time employees included in this Agreement giving the date on which each Iu8 time employee joined ihe Company. The Company agrees to furnish the Union Committee with a tat containing the names and addresses and department numbers, deletions and addkkxts each month.
c) A list showing seniority of service sbal bo kept posted on ihe Union's notice boards and revised in January and July of each year.
8.02	A full time employee's seniority shall be forfeited and his
employment shaS be deemed to bis terminated for any of foe fbUuvring reasons;
a)	he quits or resigns or accepts severance payment;
b)	he retires or is retired;
Page 5
6) he s discharged and not reinstated through the grievance
procedure:
d)	he is laid off (or a period in excess of twelve (12) months:
e)	he feiht to respond to recall from lay-off within five (5) working days after the Company has contacted him, and delivosdor sent by registered mad or courier, a notice «f recat to tee last address on the Company's records;
f)	beds absent tor more than three (3) working days without having appiiad for and obtained a leave of absence for a definite petted from fie management or unless a reason satisfactory to management has been given.
8.03	A futl dme employee shaft be considered a probationary'employee unfit he has worked a total of forty-five (45) shifts as a foil time ampteyea and during this period he shaft have no seniority rights. Bis expressly understood by both parties! that during the probationary period an employee shaft be considered as being employed on a that basis and mav be disc barged at any fine at the sole discretion of the Company.
8.04 _____________In this ameament forfeit time employees who mav switch
departments in accordance with the terms of this agreement, seniority means' (he length of fime walked as a ft# time employee te hi* department and service refers to the length of continuous toft time employment with tin Company.
ARTICLE 9 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
9.01	A M time employee who is displaced ftam his jeto by virtue of
technological change wH tie given the opportunity to lift other vaemtes which are. or become, available. Such Ml lime employee ta receive no redueften in pay.
ARTICLE 10 - BULLETIN BOARDS
10.01	The Company agrees to provide three (3) buflefin boards ter the
Union to be placed in the punts to departments mutually agreed upon for proper Union business.
ARTICLE 11 -	SUPPLY OF WORK CLOTHING
11,01	a)	The i-ompany wil supply and pay the foil cost of production
employee's aprons, whites (powerafts. stacks and starts and greens as required).
Page 6
b) Production and truck driver employees shallbe supplied with overalls where necessary at no cost to the employee.
e)	The Company will maintain the cfofting as provided in a)
and b). in a dean andsafisfactary condition.
<j)	Employees on the unloadingdoclc will be supplied with
parkas and mitts and employees working in the ice cream freezer shall be supplied with mitts, parkas, insulated pants and insulatedvests at no cost to (he employee.
e)	Driver-salesmen shal be suppled with uniforms including three (3) pants, three (3) shirts, a tie. an insulated vest, a jacked, a pair of gloves and aprons with the Company paying 10034 of die cost The uniform Shan remain the. property of the Company and shall be returned to the Company when an employee o laid off or terminates. If the uniform is not returned 10 the Company, it may deduct foe cost of same from any monies owing to the employee.
f)	Driver-salesmen
Drtver-salesmanshal.racavBJhceannuaHyjon.. proof of purchase of approved safety footwear, a safety footworn ailowanoe. Full fime employees who receive the safety footwear sBowance are required to vraar safety footwear at al times while an duty,
ii) Production
FuH time production employees, may an an optional basis, receive once in each calendar year on proof of purchase of approved safety footwear, a safety footwear atowanoe. Full time employees who receive the safety footwear allowance are required to wear safety footwear at aft times wtiie on duty. Laboratory and wusfwjp enptoyws shal not be entitled ho this aSowanca. The Company wd continue to supply, at no coat to the fui tima employee, safety toad rubber boots or rubbers in accordance with currant policy to those.hi! time employee; who do not etact to receive the safety footwear eitawance. Relief employees who perform wash-19 dudes win beeBgfote to receive the safety footwear alfowance and the safety-toed rubber bools.
in)	The safety footwear aSowanca wil be as foUaws;
Effective May 1.1996 Effective February 1,1996 EffectiveFebruary 1,1997
$59.00
$60.00
$69.00
Page 7
The amountof alowance sbaB not exceed lha actual cost of the safety footwear. ARTICLE 12 - ACCOUNTING TIME
12.01	K is agreed by the Company that driver-salesmen sh»B be allowed
to drive in, unload Hwir returns and settle (hair accounts as soon as their routes are
property finished.
ARTICLE 13 - ROUTE REDUCTION
13.01	In the event of a route being disposed of, tie Ml time employee
affected shall retain his seniority and shat have the privtsga at taldng over the route or job being worked by the junior man in tha Distribution Department Such fcrt time employee exerdsing his seniority rights and burnpino into another job in distribution shall receive his reguiar rale.
Orivsr-sataamen affected bi Has msrinacMiljuit be repaired to qualify as in Section <a), Aitide21. covering Route and Jab Fosilna. far the oumose of bidding on route vacancies.
ARTICLE H- CASES AND EQUIPMENT
14.01	Its agreed that drtver-salegnMn at the dbcre&aB of the Company
can be charged for cases or equipment and the drirer-aaiesinon trill in turn pare the charge on to the customer provided that arrangements are made that the goods or crnHels can be checked Id daJy and Arrfeer that if any low h Jaeuned by the drive* salesman, he w* be givan a lair hearing before any claim is made.
ARTICLE 15 - Drivar-SALESMEN'S BONDS
15.01	Wholesale driver-salesmen shel deposit with the Company the
minimum sum of Two Hundred Dollars (S20C.00) as bond or indemniy against lore to the Company which sum shad be returned to the driver salesman when leaving lha servioe of tie Company. The Company agree* to pay interest yearly on a» monies haU by them at the rata of bar* interest on savings account in effactaadi January 1, provided that the bond is fuJy paid up. Payment of Interest	be made prior to
February 1Sth, of each year.
ARTICLE1*
Page 9
DRIVER-SALESMEN NOT TO OIL AND REPAIR TRUCKS
IQ,01
OrtveT'Setoemen and ralteftnen shall have nothing to do with
greasing, oiling, repairing or washing (nicks or any Iraki* work. Drive-salesmen and relwlmen, having under their central equipment with pneumatic tire* shall tee that thla
equipment is properly Inflated. Each driver-salesman i« responsible for keeping the interior of the cab of ms truck In a dean condition. Each drivar-ialeaman la raqMnilbte to promptly report to Management and Auto-Pec arty accident or damage kwoMno Ida vehicle.
16.02	Driver-talesmen, when required to If j out track repair report, the*
make seme out in tripfcate with one (1) copy to the Garage, era (1) fOrthe Company and one (l) lo be retained by Ihe employee concerned.
ARTICLE 17 - CHECKING ROUTE BOOK
17.01	Every nowdrivet-eataaman upon assuming Me duties or
responsibilities on Ms own shall have his route book checked by en official authorized by the Company, to assure hfs competency to keep a true account.
ARTICLE 19 -	DRIVER-SALESMEN TO ASSIST EACH OTHER
1B.Q1	Ail milk shall be loaded or trucks and conveyors, and sil driver-
salesmen shall assist each other to load end unload their vehicles.
ARTICLE 19- CREDIT ACCOUNTS
19 01	Credit for accounts may only bo extended where the driver hss
received the prior written authorization kern Ik* Company. Tha Company shafl not bo responsible ter any credit that It did not authorize.
ARTICLE 20. ACCIDENT LOSS
20 01	In the case of an accident causing major loss through breakage tha
driver-salesman shall bo given a fair hearing before a decision It reached. Afowenoa shall b« made for each day on proper evidence being furnished for aH goods, broken,
stolen, spilled or soured.
Pag* 9
ARTICLE 21 - ROUTE AND JOB POSTING
21.01	a) The Company agrees seniority and abiRy sbal ba the determining (actors vthert route or job vacancies are available. Subject to (c| below, rout* or job vacancies shaR be posted on th* UnionTa Bulletin Board* within two (2) working days of the vacancy occurring and shad remain on theUnbrfe EkdteSn Boards for three (3) working days during which 6mo applications for the route or job vacancies shafl be mads to tte Department Manager. The Company aril accept a written application. on behalf of a lull tlmeemployee absent on vseatiorv presented by a Union officer, it being agreed and understood such Jul tima eraptayee stiail accept the new position m accordance with 21.01 (b) if be a the suooessfu) appfcant
b)	The Company s ha 11, post a none* asm ih* successful applicant to fil the vacant pasitioo within fire (6) working days Mowing dm teat day an which appfications were submitted to the Company In accordance with th* nodes posted. The successful appdeant shad be pitted en Ha rob or route oa soon as practical or in any case within ten (10) working days of thedecision.
c)	The Company will post for tha original opening and tha &st
backup position, (hereafter tfie Company can IBstdsdteciulion.
d> The Company wig consider applicants in the Mloming sequence for Ming vacancies; {IJt-fUt tfcn* employees m th* same department where the vacancy exists; <H) full time employees in the other dapa^nent; and {Si) part time employees coveted under Appendix TF
e)	Drivm-iaiasman making appdeatien fat a route vacancy
must have served Ms present mute far a period of net lass than faur <4} months amt plant employees who make application fix a job posting must have worked In Ha present job for a period of not less ttmnfbur (4) months.
$	in tha event of a production job being oesposed of. the Sul
time employee affected shall retain his seniority and hav* tha Privilege of taidno over the production job then being worked by the junior man.
21.02	It is agreed that tub tune employees may Bid Into the other department under the fodowirtg teams and conditions whan new faHmepoattons am created or vacancies .occur:
pj	Full time employees who move to anoSwr deparknent wffl
be placed at the bottom of the sonority list in the nevr'departmsnl
b)	The fliJI time emptayea wit retain his Company service tor
Page 10
purposes of delermsnrig length of vacation eotjttroent, but selection of vacation dates wM be based on :he lull time employee's seniority irt the new department
C) Notwithstanding 801 a],21.01 a), or any other wording to the contrary, when a hill time employe* wishes to bid into another department the Company will f» such imerdepartjnent vacancies on the basis <£ seniority, sUI and abaty to perform the requireddubes within a famSarizadon period-of up to throe weeks. In the went :he tut) time employee can not perform the required duties within the famiNanzaijan period. the M time employee vrtt revert to Ik previous position and department.
dl It is understood and agreed that employees can not bump from one department to another.
ARTICLE 22 -	TERMINATING EMPLOYMENT
22.01	Employees wishing to leave the service of the Company shad give
the Company two <2) week's notice and in the event of the Company wishing to discharge an employee they shell give him two (2) week's notice. The Company agrees to have the book checked within the notice period at the axpiretioct of which week the employee shall receive aR monies due to him.
ARTICLE Z3 - IN Lieu OF TWO WEEK’S NOTICE
23.01	In lieu of two (2) week's notice the employee shall receive two (2)
week's wage in advance. Proven drinking of aicohoic beverages whde on duty, dishonesty, ncompetency, absence without leave, shall be reason tor rtismrrsat without notice.
Employees who have not given proper "leaving notice' may have deducted from* monies due but not paid, for wages or vacation pay the amount of which would have been earned by the enptoyev during the period of notice which should have been given the Company.
ARTICLE 24-	VACATIONS WITH PAY
24.01	3|	Holiday schedules shad be arranged by the Company
beginning m the monlh of February. Lists requesting ful lima employees preferred vacation dates wtI be posted by February 1, and wR remain posted uni! March 1. The lists wilt be taken down on March 1 for review by management--A fu3 time err^toyee
Page 51
who submits vacation dates Mowing Match t. may only apply far available dates.
Seniority of service atari detennine chaos of holidays for aU lull time employees in each department excluding foreman, so long as operations are not disrupted.
The normal holiday period shall be between May 1st and the and of the second fun week of October.
fe)	After these fists are prepared and before they am peated, a
meeting w* be held between the Company and the Union to ratify such fats.
The Company agrees that vacancies that occur alter the posting of the hofiday lists strati be dealt with by the management and the Union.
24.02	a)	Al fall time employees with lass than one <1} year's aenicB
shall be paid four percent (4%). or emiivatent in daws off prior to May tat.
b) A foil time employee in the service of the Company who has completed one{1) year's service start* entitled to two (Z) weeks vacaficawitii pay anntiagy.
c)	AS foH time employees witft service of three (3) years or more prior Is May 1st shal be entted:to fores (3) weeks holday wfth pay amualy.
d)	AS hfibrnsr employees wfthetght (8) years of ssnics or more prior Co May 1st shal receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay. The fourth (4lh) week of vacation must be taken between the beginning of the foH fill week In October and April 30th.
e)	At foil time employees with eighteen {IS) years of service or more prior to May 1st shal receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay. The fourth (4th) and fifth (Sth) weeks of vaculoa must be taken between.the beginning of foe foud hd week in October and April 30th.
f>	All fufi time emptoyees with twenty-two (2Z) years of service
or mare prior to May 1st shal receive six (8) weeks vacation with pay. The fourth (4th). fifth (Sth> and sixth (6th> weeks of vacation must be taken between the beginning of foe third foil week in October and April 30th.
24.03	Should a fuH time employee who is anStiad to hofiday resign or be
discharged, said fu8 time employee shal receive pay in 8eu of holidays at these rates:
Page 12
a ftjO time employee entitled,to two <2] weeks hoSdays shall be paid four percent (4%) of his total earnings in that vacation year a fu* time employee entitled to three (3) weeks holidays shall be paidsix percent (6%) of his total earnings in thatvacatian year; a lull time employs® entitled to four (4) weeks holidays shal be paid eight percent (8%) of his total earnings in that vacation year a M time employee enttead to five (6) weeks holidays shat be paid ten percent (10%) of his total earnings in that vacation yuan a fill t i employee entitled to six (6) weeks holidays shal be paid twelve percent (12%) of his total earnings in that vacation year.
24.04	Employees not covered by the foregoing vacation provisions shal
be paid vacation benefits as provided in the Province cf Manitoba Vacation* wit) Pay Act
24.05	Any temporary lapse m employment due to ilness or accident to the ful time employee shall not affect the continuity of employment tor vacation purposes.
24.06	If a statutory hofcfay fats in a full time employee'shoMay period, an additional day's holiday wM beaflowed or a day's pay in Sou thereof. AddRfonal day's holiday shall be mutualy agreed upon between toe employee and employer.
24.07	Each week's hoiday with pay wat be the regular weekly base rate. /Wegular day's pay shall be one-fifth (1/5) of the reguiarweekly base rate tor those employee on a five (5) day schedule, and one<juarier(1#4) of the regular week y base rate for (hose employees on a four (4) day schedule.
24.06	Before leaving for their vacation, employees shal be antBted to
their vacation pay for the portion of their vacation period upon which they are embarking. The employee shal adwsa the payruR department foree (3) weeks in advance K he changes his scheduled vacation, except in special circumstances.
24.09	Afl employees entitled to vacation shal take same ip ina current
vacation year. Vacation efltfRement shall not be canted over to a subsequent vacation year. The vacation year is from May 1st to the folcwing April 30th.
24 10	A temporary lapse in employment due to ilness or accidents to Iha
fuB time employee shall not affect continuity of employment for purposes of vacation credits. However, for purposes of vacation time off and pay, such full time employee shal be dealt with in accordance with the following scale;
Absent one (1) day to thirteen (13> weeks	-100%
Absent thirteen (13) weeks to twenty-six (26) weeks	- 75%
Absent twenty-six (26) weeks to thirty-nine (39) weeks	- 50%
Absent thirty-nine (39)we«fcs to fifty-two (SZ) waska Absent mare than Sty-two (52} weeks
- 25*
• no vacation
ARTICLE 25 - REST PERIOD
25.01	AH employees shall be given a fifteen (15) minuta rest period
midway through each four (4} hour shill far those employees on a foe (E) day
schedule, and midway through each foe (5) hour shift for those employees en afbur (4) day schedule.
ARTICLE 26-	STATUTORY HOUDAYS
26.01	The fodowng or any day subsStuted stia9be recognized as
Statutory HoSdaya wth pay at straight time rate:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic HoMay (First Monday in Aug.)
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day rui membrane® Day Ctuttnas'Day Boxing Day
and stl crther holidays proclaimed by Federal and Provincial Governments.
26.02	The Company wR grant each fcti time employee hawng ram than six (6) months seniority a floating hoBdsy. This foaling holiday wM be arranged by mutual agreement between the Company and the employee, and shal be taken prior lo Tie last pay period in fte calendar year, in the event tiiefederal Government proclaims an additional statutory holiday, this floating hoHtywK cease.
26.03	If a Statutory Hoiday Me one fei time employee's ragtdar day off, the employee shat receive an addEanal-daye pay or an additional day off by mutual agreement in advance of the holiday.
26.04	Employeaa must work the normal working day prior to and the
normal working day Mowing a Statutory HoBdsy hi radar to motive payment for the Statutory Holiday. Exception to this wE be as folows;
a) Deafo Si Ihe immodiate fondly Le. wife, husband, mother, lather, brother, sister, mother-tnJayr. Mher-in4aw. brothor-Maw. sister-in-law. grandparents, grandchildren or chidrett of the employee.
Page 14
b)	Absence due to ilnesswhere the employee is not receivirig payment from the Company, a weekly indemnity plan or Workers' Compensation and provided the employes has actively worked within (Seen {19) calendar days of the Statutory Holiday.
c)	Permission from?heCompany
d>	Jury Outy or subpoenaed witness.
ARTICLE 27 .	LEAVEO F ABSENCE
27.01	a)	Employees wit be granted necessary leave of absence
without pay to attend their meetings and conventions. Such leave will be granted Ihem only when <t wul not interfere with the requirements of the service and provided the Company a not put to any additional expanse.
b> Employees w«fl be granted a leave of absence at the discretion cl the Company not to exceed ninety (90) days. Permission shad be obtained in writing. H employees granted such leave return to wodt later than the agreed date, they shall lose their seniority raniong-and their service shad be doomed terminated. However, ouch leave may be extended by the Company prior to the expiration cf leave for reasons of bona tide sickness.
c)	Leave of absence wit not be granted under <b) above for the purpose of engaging in woik outside tbs Company's service, except 1ha Company agrees to giant leave of absence without pay and at no cost to the Company tor a period of not more than twelve (1Z) months which may be renewed at the Company's discretion lo any employee elected to dice as a Union Officer who is required by the Union to take lime off tor officiai Union business.
d)	Such leave mil be requested three (3) weeks prior to the
appropriate date and wifi beconlhmed by the Company no later than one (1) weak prior to die requested leave date.
ARTICLE 28- HOURS OF WORK
28.01	Hours of work for production fufi Hina employees shall be forty <40}
hours per week, to be worked in five {5) days or kar (4) days. Overtime rates wB be paid alter eight {8) hotas worked-si a day on a five ($) day schedule, or aftertan 110) hours worked in a day oo a four	day ache (tide. Overtime w« be paid at fee rate of
one and oneJialf {1-K2) the regular rate. Fora* hours worked over forty-four (44) hours in a week the rate will be double time (2x) 1he regular rate.
Page 15
Sunday.
Norma! day* elf far aJ fuB Urne employees shall bo Saturday end
No toil time amptoyee she* He sent home tor the purpose of avoiding overtime due to aeeinHittM hours previously worked In that week.
28.02	Work performed on regular Bchaduted days cdshal be peW at die
rate of time and one-half {1*16) far ad fui time empfciyees.
28.1		A tuti time employee called in k> work on a Statutory Holiday slsril
be guaranteed not loss than six (8) tours wort at overtime rales of pay.
28.04	No plant employee stral tse requred to work mote 1wn Sve (5) hours without a meat bread! of Uiirty (30) minutes duration.
28.05	&npfcjyeesrequaeo to work overtime shafcnot be requited to punch out for meal breaks after a regular day's wort.
28.08	AC production lul lime employees requfced to work Mo (2)
unscheduled nows beyonrfjis regular schedtded shift eheC be provided wtoi • meat or given a meal allowance for sic dulls ra aod Sfty Cents (ffl.50). The meal aOowance vril be inducted to die employee's ragtdar pay cheque. SfecUve February 1.1981,the meai aBourance w* be increased to seven dollars (STjGQ).
ARTICLE 2S WAGES
Hourly Base Rate Effective Feb. 1, IMS
iwcf
Wholesale Route SpaiemerVHoSday Men Speciat Trucks •Ice Cream Roa«
29.01	Hourly
Bee* Rate Effective Jan. 23,1984
Oistrfcution Employees	S 15.95
Hourly Base Rate Effective FMx 1.1997
16.45
29.02	A* neiw driver-salesmen shall receive up to few (4) weeks'traHne
and she* be paid at a rale of Ally dotars (550.00) briow the bare rale per week Wile learning. tmmediaeely oo assuminc mspooabiRy otitis envn or any route, be atari be paid the base rate wage.
29.03
Production Employees
Hourly Base Rats Effective Jan. 23.1994
Hourly Base Rate Effective Fob. 1,1996
Hourly Sana Rata Effective Fab. 1.1997
Group *A"	1S.9S	1830	16/45
Milk and Cream Receive Pasteurizer
Pute-Pak Filler Operator Pcuch-Pak Filter Operator Portion Pak Ooerator Dispenser Operator (Bag N Box) ice Cream Department Storage Department Shipping/Receiving Drive bShuntman Laboratory
General Plant Relief Vlari Night t/Uashup Jug Filer
Group "B"	1555	16.20	16.45
Trans Canada Freezer Warehouseman 1
Group TT	15.71	tS-B6	1631
General Plant Help
29.04	fnexperivced dairy help shall be paid at Ihe hourly base rate tabs
one dollar and twenty-five cents (61.25) far the first twenty (20) working days. Thereafter, they shafi be paid the rate of pay of the classification then baerg worked as
outlined in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 30 - GENERA). PROVISIONS
30.31	Higher Classification - Any full time employee who is assigned
to relieve to a higher classification than his own shall receive the rate of such
Page 17
classification from thefkst fill day of work in such cfassiGcation.
30 02	Shift Premium - AlhJI fen* srapicyMO who work Bra major
portion of their assigned shifts, four (4) hours or mote, or live (5) hours or more, depending on the length of the assigned shift between thehours of 8:00 pm and 7:00 am. shall receive seventy cants ($0.70) par hour ever and above the regular fade of pay for all hours worked on such shifts.
30.03	Ids Cream Fraezar Premium-Any fotSme employee who spends the majority of his working rime actuaRy In the ice «asm freezer shad receiver a special premium of twenty dolais (320.00) par week.
30.04	Sunday Prernitim-Shippers and receivers scheduled to work on Sunday shaB receive a premium of ninety cants ($0.90) per hour (or atltmureiMikSd on Sunday.
30.05	Discrimination - The Manrioba Human Rights Act prohibda oacntrenalion because of a parecn's race. naBonaBty; nrlgiorv ootoer, sex. age. a ttmicAiahonal origin. maritaJ status, source of income and pd Gcal beKet
30.06	Circling of Speciste-Drive hiNssi nan viW be required la ctrcte apedat Herns.
30.07	Route ConuoHdadori-Vrirere two or more routes am consolidated the drown nlesmah affected wil be given B»e choice of prefer tad route on the basis of sanierky and abity to do th# work.
30.08	Employees »a be paid on a bhueatiy basis.
30.09	An adjustment of twenty dotos (S20.QQ) per week w* be payable to those run time employees classified as General Plant Re*af who are qualified according to the Company, to perfann lour or more production jobs. Such erripioyees must re-quelffy on each each production job at least every so months in aider In remain eSgWe lor this premium.
ARTICLE 31 - HOSPITALIZATION AND SICK BENEHTS
31.01	(i>	it d agreed that the Company assume one-half the cost of
the Manitoba HospilalSarriee Plan, aruf ooehad the cost of the Maritnba Haa8h Service'H C-X-'Plan untiMedfcare becomes effecthe. The Company sMBihen contribute pour Dollars and Ninety-two cants (34E2) par month par Ml Urns employee on the individual plan and Eleven Cotasand Forty-seyan cents (311-47) per mor* par SJ1 time employee onthe^ambypiaa.
Page 18
fo) Weekly Indemnify
The Company provides an Mewed weekly indemnify benefit at no premium cost to Hie full tune employees which effective February 1,1882, provides a weekly benefit of 88-20% at the fill Ume employees base rate up to a maximum of three hundred and ninety-five dotes ($394.00). Effective May 1,1985, the maximum wfl be increased to four hundred and twenty-five dates ($425.00). The Company agrees la pay kill wages for the fast, second and third scheduled weiring dayoff for sickness provided the fun time employee establishes a dakn tor sick benefits.
ul time employee off wo* at the efiecfive oases would not be eligible for the increased benefit unii he has returned to work and became eligible lor a new claim under the terms of the plan.
(St) Dental
The Company provides an insured Company admintstered dental plan through its carrier with the Company paying seventy-five percent (75%) of the premium cost with the fuit»ne empiOyees paying twanty^ve percent (25%) of the premium cost of the Dental Plan. Effective May 1,1995, benefits wit be paid an Ihe f 994 M O.A. Fee'Schedule. Effective February 1,199B, benefits w> be paid on 1995 M.O.A. Fees Schedule. Effective February 1.1987. benefits wS be paidUo 1988 M.D.A. Fees Schedule.
Coverage tor tntarmadMe procedures is included m the present Denial Plan. This coverage is on a fifty percent (50%) co-insurance basis.
The maximum dental bereft payable in anyone (t) year period far all dental sendee rendered under the plan is one thousand dollars ($1,000.0(1) per person.
(iv) Ufa Insurance
Effective May 1.1995, the Company Writ pay the fut premium cost to provide a benefit of twefve thousand dates ($12,000.00) life insurance for each full tints employee who has completed the probation period, l.nr insurance wiT cease on termination or retire me nrt h accordance with ihe rales and regulalfans of the policy.
(vj Long Term Ofsabkify
EftecSve May 1.1990, the Company wM arrange far an Long Term Dsability benefit lhrough 4s insurancecarrier. The benefit wril be based on sixty percent (G0K> of the full time employee's base rate up to a maximum of
Page 1»
St .25000 pet month subjectlo the teens and Conditions of the pten. The masornum benefl period ialwenty-four months fbtowing a queifying cBsabRy period of fifty-two (52) weeks of continuous dteabHty. Benefits received by a full time employee under the Canada Pension Plan onV.sh^jootbe an o*eet under this plan. hoivcvoroOw income seal be an off-sad. 8eoefit*shaS ce«3e K theeariler of twenty-feur (24) months or age srrty-ffve (85). The ptemitim cost vdlSe sbafed with Hie Company end fill lime employees each paying Sty (SQ%) percent
Effectfre February 1,1996, the maximum bene# wit be increased to SI ,500.00 pec month. Etfectrve February 1. 1997, the masarnum benefit wfll be in creased to S1.700.00 per month.
ARTICLE 32 - GENERAL
52.01	No employee shall be asked or parmHed to make e written or
verbal agreement which may oonffict vrith Otis Agreement
ARTICLE 33 - PENSION PLAN
3301	The Company provides a pension benefit as set out in AppencSs
"A" v»hich is attached hereto ~~A terms part of this CofecSve Agreement
ARTICLE W -	RIG UTS AW) PRIVILEGES
34.01	The Company agrees hat afi erisfing privileges and ccndMons
now onpyedby Hie *u# time employees shall not be dfeturbed and shat continue as
heretofore.
---------- or me sfgnkig of thie
-----angrier rate mao amt speckled in tie wage scale ahal not
have his wage reduced.
ARTICLE 3S-	BEREAVEMENT
35.01	In the event of adeath in the irwnediaie family. Le. husband.***,
mother. Esther, sisler. brother; mother-in-law, father-in-law. grandpaterSs. or cMdran of a Ml Bme employee covered-in this Agreement, the Company agrees to gmnt up to three (3) days* leave of absence with full pay for [ustiftable absence.
Page 20
The Company «iH grant a one (1) day leave of absencewith payment for working time lost resultingfrom a (uH time employee acting as a pallbearer cr because <f the death cf brother-in-law. sister-in-law Of grandchildren.
ARTICLE 3S - JURY PAY
36.01	;3( The Company wil. on receiving from a IMUkira employee a
certificate from a proper officer of the Carat certifying that the saidfut time employee has been required to reportfor jury duty for a number of days to be stated In the same certificate and that the said lull time employee has received a sum to be stated si fa certificate, gay to the full time employee Ihe difference between tie sum cf money slated in the certificate and the sum the fuS time employee would have received had he worked during Ihe pehbd referred toil the certificate.
(b)	Full time’ mployeestsqiirad to da jury duty an days off Payment for same shaS accrue to the fit! time employees.
(c)	An ful time employee who has been subpoenaed as a witness shalt be paid Ihe difference between the witness fees and his regular daily
ARTICLE 37- GENDER
37.01	In 0tis Agreementwhenevertbe masciAne gender is wed itshal
be construed to be the masculine gender or the feminine as the context requires.
ARTICLE 38 - PERSONAL INFORMATION
38 01	It is Ihe responsibly of each employee to notify the Company of
any change in his home address and maSng address if dWBrent from Ns home address, telephone number, martial status, number of dependents or othervial statistics. Failure to keep fa Company informed of the above matters wl release the Company of any responsibility for feline to comply wlh any part of lMs Agreement where such information is necessary in order to comply.
ARTICLE 39 -	STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
39.01	ItisunderstoodandagreedthattbepartiestothisAgreemerjfare
governed by the provisions of Section 89(2) cf the Manitoba Labour Relatione Act
Page 21
The Company agrees not to ask or expect a member of the Union to cross legally established picket lines. However, if a strike occurs which affects the operations of the Company, ttie Union and the Company shall at: once call a meeting to discuss the operation (fries clause.
ARTICLES') - SEVERANCEPAY
40.01	A regular fuKtkne employee with five (S> or more years of
continuous service who is permanently laid off and who is not subject to rtteatt shaH receive severance pay based on one {1) week’s pay (breach completo year of continuous service up to a fflaxfrnutt ^f twenty-six (26) weeks psy.
ARTICLE 41 -	BUSINESS AGENT VISITS
41.01	Duty authorized fuH rime representatives of the' Union shall be enbtled to vtsk the plant for She purpose of communicating witi bargaining Urat employees. The Representative shall notify rite Plant Manager in advance, to arrange tor his vis*, which shaS take place at a time and place agreeable with the Plant Manager so as nottodiaiupt toe operation of ihe-woitrplaca. The RaiprcBontuthra shall not meat with more than one «mpk)>eo at a time, except with ttie express permission of the Plant Manager or his designate.
ARTICLE 42.	NEGOTIATING COMMTTES
42.01	The Company wE recognize up to three (3) bargaining unit employees to negotiate the renewal of tNs AgreemanL Isnployses on he negolM committee shsB suffer no loss in pay for the time spent during tiles' regular scherMad hours of work in attendance at negotiating moorings wit) Mari npoment. Such payment shall be tor a maximum of six (S) days.
ARTICLE 43 - HUMANITARIAN FUND
43.01	Effective February 1.1907. he Company wtii contribute one
(SD 01) cent per regular hour wotted by bargaining unSemployees to Ore Steetworker* Hum arity Fund.
ARTICLE 44.
44.01
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Agreement CO become effective Aprrt 3D. 1995, and eupse Jarwary
Page 22
31. 1998. and thereafter from year to year unless written noBes of intent to amend or terminate the Agreement e given by either party to the other party, not more than sixty (SO) days and not toss than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of any yearly period. Upon receipt of the Union’s and Company’s amendments, the Company shaft within five (S) days of receipt of gnid amendments commence cofieetive bargaining with a view to the renewal or revision of this Agreement or conchmioo ef a new Cofecfira Labour Agreement
IK WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES hereto have caused this Agreement to ba duty executed this	, day of	, 1996.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
PENSION PLAN
Page 23 APPSeWC'A-
1.01	Benefits formarnbers of iheCrownUve plan wit be put on a paM up status as at January 31,1982, and wld b« payable at five time of redremari in accordance vdth pie lams of that plan.
1.02	Effective February 1,1982. the Company w8 bnptamenlalutitre service pay plan, non-contributory, which wil provide to a full Sme erryjloyee at die mandatary retremenl aga of saty-fiv« (65) a servicerefcited pension benefit a{five deHart ($5.00) per month pet yeat of fetura credited servicet
1.03	Effective February 1.1083, the Company w9 amend the Mum service pay plan, naeoontributory, tppovlda tufi Una employees at fee mandatary retiremenl age of sixty-five (S5) a service related pension benefit:of Teti Defiant ($10.00) per month per year of Mute credited service tom February 1.1983.
1.0»	EffiscSve February 1.138S, the Company v<S amend die future
service pay ptanTncn^gnsbutery. to pmvidaful time employees at the mandatory retiremenl age o< sixty-five (95) a service raialed pension benefit cf Thirteen Dollars ($13.00) per month per year of future cmdhsd'aarvico fiom February 1.1965.
1.05	Effective February 1.1388. the CocrpanywB amend die future
service pay plan, norveontributory. to provide fufi line employees at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-live (fg) ■ service related pension benefit of Fifteen Dollars {$ 15.00) per month per year of fcikire credfied sendee from February 1, '1986.
1.08	Effective February 1.1S87, fhe company wHamsnd (tie future
sendee pay plan, non-contributory, to provide fu> time employee s at the mandatory retirement age cf sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of Seventeen Dottare ($17.00) per month per year of tout* credited sendee from February 1, $987.
1.07	Qfactive February 1.1988. die Company wia amend the Mure service pay plan, noo-con tributary, to provide Ml Hmeemptoyeeaet fee mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (85) a sendee related pension benefit of Nhetaan Ocfiore (St 9.00) per month per year of Mute cradled service from February 1.1088.
1.08	Effective February 1.1988. the Company wil amend the Mure service pay plan, norvcontribukxy, to provide fob Sme employees at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a service rotated pennon beneft ofTfeenty-one defiart (S21.00) per month par year of Mure credited service from February 1.1999.
Page 2A
1.09	Effective February 1. 1990, the Company will amend the future
service pay plan, non-contributory, to provide full lime employeesai me mandatary retirement age of sixty-live (65} a service related pension benefit ofTwenty-ftxrr Dollars ($24 00) per month peryear of future creditedservice from February 1,1990.
110	Effective February 1,1991, the Company vril amend the tubes
serves pay plan, no-------tributary, to provide full fine employees at the mandatory
retirement age cf sixty-five (55} a service related pension benefit of Thirty Oofiars (£30.00) permonth per year of future credited service from Fabruay 1,1991.
1.11	Effective January 1.1993, fbeCompany vril emend thefulure servioepay pian. non-contributory, to provide full time employees at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of Thirty-One Calais (S3t 00) per month peryearof future Credited service fromlanuary 1,1993.
1.12	Effective January 1.1394. the Company wi amend the future service p ay star, non-contributory, to provide toil lima employees at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-tve (85) a service related pension benefit of Thirty-Three Oofiars ($33.00) per month peryear of fulurs credited service from January 1.1904.
1.13	Effective January1.1996, theCompariy wfl amenc (he future service pay pfan. non-contnbutory. to provide toll line employees at the mandatory retirement age cf sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of Thirty-Four Cottars ($34.00) per month peryearof future credited service from January 1.1996.
1.14	Effective January 1,1997, the Company wit amend the future service pay plan, non-coo tributary, to provide fuS true employees at the mandatory reSremenl age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of Thirty-Six Dotes ($36.30; per month per year at future credited service from January 1.1997.
Page 25 Aupendhi ~8~
All manors relating to regular parMtaia. temporary. seasonal part-Sroe, or casual employees Including their wages, hours and miking conditions shah be only as set out in this Appendix *S*
ARTICLE 1 - DEFtamOftSf INTERPRETATION
Regular part-time	normally works 24 hours or less per week on a regularly
scheduled basis.
Casual nart-time	an employee hired on an irregular, as requited basis
throughout the year.
Seasonal	an employee hired to work between Apr* 15 to September
b)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, only those matters which
are specifically sat out as sixth, sha* apply to seasonal employees.
ARTICLE 2- PROBATION PERIOD
2.01	A probationary employee may bediecharged without cause and at
the sole discretion of the Company. Such employee does' not have recourse to the grievance and arbitration sections of tilia Agreement. The probationary period shal be ninety (90) shifts worked.
ARTICLE 3-.	MANAGEMENT CONTROL-as set out in Articia 4 of 8ta main
body o< the Agreement
ARTICLE 4-	UNION SECURITY-as set out in ArtideSofthe main body of the
Agreement
ARTICLE 5 -	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE-is set out in AitidaO of the main
body ol the Agreement.
ARTICLES-	ARBITRATION - as set out in Article 7 of the m sin body ofth*
Agreement
ARTICLE 7-
SENIORITY
7.01	Part-time employees will acrxtmulale seniority within their group
based on the number of hours worked since their ivost recent dated/ hire.
A seasonal employee who Is transferred to negularparttime status i 11 be credited with the number of hoursworked since his last date of hire, for seniority purposes within that group.
Employees shall be given a fifteen (IS) minute rest period midway through each four (4) hour shift.
ARTICLE 8- FULL TIME VACANCIES
6.01	The Company wE advise employees when it has a permanent ftjfi
lime vacancy which it wishes to fit! so that interested employees may make appfcatton for the position. The Company wifi give oansideraSan to applications received from part-time employees AFTER tufl time employees have been considered under Artkde 2 lot the bodv of the Aoreement and BEFORE considering outside appficaats. Anert tme employee wno peccaries a rue one ems&uyee must snmpietethe fufttme pnmatiuti perioid.
ARTICLE 9 - WAGES
9.01	Regular Fart-lime Casual Employees-
HOURLY Base
EFFECTIVE Jan 23. 1994
HOURLY BASE
RATE
EFFECTIVE
Feb. 1,1998
HOURLY EASE RATE
EFFECTIVE Feb. 1.1937
1st year 2nd year 3rd year
$10.35
$10.50
$10.65
$10.60
S10.8S
511-10
SfcLS5
$11.10
$11.35
992	Seasonal Employees (April 15 to September 1>
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
Jan 23.1994 Feb 1,1999	Feb. 1,1997
1st year of employment	M.3S	$8.60	$8.85
2nd year at employment	SB.60	$8.85	$9.10
3rd year of employment	38.8S	59.10	S9.3S
9.03
Agreement
Shift Premium- as set out h Article 30 02 ot the main body of (be
304	tee Cream Freezer Premium
An employee who 'spends 8» majority of his working 8m* actuaiy in the ice cream freezer shai! receive a special prerrmjm of twenty debts ($20.00) per week prorated for the hours worked.
ARTICLE 10-	STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS- as sol cut in Article 39of the main
body cf the Agreement.
ARTICLE 11-	HUMANITARIAN FUND - asset outinArticie 43 of the main body
of the Agreement.
BEATRICE FOODS INC. MODERS DAIRIES • WE1JKPXG
SPECIAL,ALLOWANCE
EMPLOYEE	SAVXEK	UectiTt Mir 17/93	ElTcdbt Jaaurr 23. 1594
Bsube. Maurice	5L00	4«.eo	4Z20
BJxia. Eagme	112.0®	107.6D	JG3.20
Cramoloa. Neil	7aoo	SSfiO	61.20
G&bam. JCemtth	SLOO	56.60	52,20
Johnson. Raymond	saoo	75.60	7L20
Krebs, Rflorid	87.00	12.60	78.20
Uixjssert Patrick	90.00	8560	IL20
Mtaaeai. Frederick	101.00	96.60	92J0
Mdlnt. Mice	49.00	44.60	40.20
Monwv. Peter	69.00	0.60	59.20
NzuanEt Valerik	79.00	74.60	70120
SsiRpsonL. Gles	29.00	23.60	19.20
When. Dennis	98LOO	93.60	89.20
Zarianev. .Dennis. ..	19.00			Kit		-... -30jg. „ .
Km* 7/96
3
B3C4MS
March 7,1996

Mr. D. Oswald
Reuil Wholesale Canada
Local 753
404 Union Centre
273 Broadway Avenue
Winaipeg, Manitoba R3C4M6
DwDat
RE:	ARTICLE » - HOURS OF WORK
This will contain the undcntaadmg made daring the recently ooactoded negotiation* Jbr the renewal of the Modem Dairies - Winapeg Collective Agiuauui. which expires on January 31, 199*. to the effect that
In the event the Coarpaay dclcnwics a need to sdteckde mpioyces to work on Saturday andfor Sunday in order to property service customer seeds as a rank of Sunday stopping andtor competitive activity, the Union rgrees to meet with the Compaay to negotiate mnaimis to Article 28, ({ours of Work, with reject to the scbedLSng of days off on weekends and Article JO, General Ptownm, Ctauw JO.04,
Sunday Preroiwn-
Yourstntiy,