3RSEMENT
THE RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION
AFL-CIO, CLC LOCAL755
RETAIL, WHOLESALE DAIRY WORKERS UNION
AND
BEATRICE FOODS INC.,
MODERN DAIRIES —WINNIPEG DIVISION
EXPIRY DATE: JAN. 31,1995
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
BEATRICE FOODS INC.,
MODERN DAIRIES —WINNIPEG DIVISION (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
AND:
THE RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION
AFL-CIO, CLC, AND ITS LOCAL 755
RETAIL, WHOLESALE DAIRY WORKERS UNION (hereinafter referred to as the ’’Union”)
Expiry Date: January 31,1995
1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE	PAGENO.
1	Purpose.............................................. 3
2	Recognition........................................ 3
3	Scope................................................ 3
4	ManagementControl.................................. 4
5	UnionSecurity........................................ 4
6	GrievanceCommitteeand Procedure...................... 5
7	Arbitration.......................................... 6
8	Seniority............................................ 7
9	TechnologicalChange.................................. 9
10	Bulletin Boards...................................... 9
11	Supply of Work Clothing.............................. 9
12	Accounting Time......................................11
13	Driers-SaTesman'sStartingTime......................12
14	Route Reduction......................................12
15	Cases and Equipment..................................12
16	Driver-Salesmen's Bonds..............................13
17	Driver-SalesmenNotto Oil &	RepairTrucks..............13
18	Checking RouteBook...................................14
19	Drier-SalesmenTo Assist EachOther....................14
20	Credit Accounts......................................14
21	Accident Loss........................................14
22	Routeand Job Posting.................................14
23	Terminating Employment...............................16
24	InLieuof TwoWeek Notice..............................16
25	Vacations with Pay...................................16
26	Rest Periods.........................................20
27	Statutory Holidays...................................20
28	Leave of Absence.....................................22
39	Hours of Work........................................23
30	Wages................................................24
31	General Provisions...................................26
32	Hospitalization......................................28
33	General..............................................30
34	Pension Plan.........................................30
35	Rightsand Privileges.................................30
36	Bereavement..........................................31
37	Jury Duty............................................31
38	Gender...............................................32
39	Personal Information ................................32
40	Strikes and Lockouts.................................32
41	Severance Pay........................................33
42	Busi ness Agent Vis its..............................33
43	NegotiatingCommittee.................................33
44	Duration cf Agreement................................34
Appendix A - Pension Plan..........................35
Lettersof Understanding............................37
Collective Agreement - Part Time /Casual Employees......41
2
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees and to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours of work and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent of all employees of the Company within the scope of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 SCOPE
3.01	a) The scope of this Agreement shall cover all
employees of the Company save and except Main Office Staff, Stationary Engineers, Firemen, Foremen and those above the rank of Foremen and part-time, temporary, seasonaland casual employees covered by a subsisting agreement.
b)	The Company will supply the Union with a list of foremen, superintendents, members of the Management Committee and other persons with authority, and will keep such list up to date.
3
ARTICLE 4
MANAGEMENT CONTROL
4.01	Responsibilityforplanning,directing andcontrol-ling the businessof the Company shall rest exclusively with Management, provided that these functions are exercisedin a mannerthat will notconflict with the terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement. The Company retainsall managementrightsexceptas specifically modified elsewhere in this Agreement
4.02	A probationary employee may be discharged without cause andat the sole discretionofthe Company. Such employee does nothaverecourse to the grievance and arbitration sections of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 UNION SECURITY
5.01	a) All present employees now members of the Union as a condition of employment must remain members in good standing during the life of the Agreement. All new employees must become and remain members in good standing with the Unionwithin thirty (30) days of their starting date of employmentduring the life of this Agreement. The Company will advise the Union Steward within one (1) working day of the hiring of a new employee.
The Company agrees to give a memo to every new employee with his first pay cheque indicatingto said employee that he is to join the Unionwithin thirty (30) days of beinghired.
b)	The Company agrees upon a compulsory check-off of Union dues upon all employees
4
who fall within the bargaining unit as certified by the Manitoba Labour Relations Board and shall transmit the amount so deducted to the Union upon authorization by the employee priortothe 15thdayof each month. All laiddF employees who return to work temporarily shall pay dues.
c)	Subject to the Labour Relations Act S.M. 1987, c L10 s76 (1) (a), (b), (c), s76 (3).
ARTICLE 6
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE AND PROCEDURE
6.01	STEP 1
In the event that an employee feels that he has been aggrieved, he shall immediately take the matter up with the Shop Steward of that Department as soon as it is possible to do so taking into consideration the operation of the job, so that nothing is in any way disrupted.
STEP 2
The Shop Steward shall then take the matter up withtheentire Grievance Committee and the Committee shall make a request for a meeting with the Fleet and DistributionManageror Plant Superintendent,whichever the case may be. The Fleet and Distribution Manager or the Plant Superintendent shall give his decision.
STEP3
Failing satisfactory settlement, then within three (3) working days of the decision at Step 2, the Comm ittee shall submit a written statement of such grievance, dated and signed by the employee, along with a written request for a meeting with the Manager of the Company or his designate. The nature of the grievance, the article of the Agreement that has been violated, misapplied, or
5
misinterpreted and the relief or remedy sought shall be clearly set out in the grievance. A meeting shall take place within a further three (3) working days and the parties shall attempt to settle the dispute as quickly as possible. The griever shall attend the meeting. At this point the Union business agent may be called in at the request of either party. Any decision shall be given in writing within one (1) working day of the above meeting.
6.02	In Articles 6 and 7 the time limits used shall be working days and shall not includeSaturdays,Sundays, or Statutory Holidays.
ARTICLE7
ARBITRATION
7.01	In the event that the parties are still not in agreement then either party may invoke arbitration If either party requests arbitration they shall give to the other party such noticeinwritingwithinten (10)daysafter Step 3 has been completed, and atthe same time shall name their appointee.
7.02	The recipient of the notice shall within three (3) days nominateand notify the other party of their appointee.
7.03	The two appointees shall communicate within five (5Jdays of the appointmentof the second of them for the purpose of selecting a third party who shall be Chairman.
7.04	In the event that the second party fails to appoint inthe time allottedor the two appointees fail to agreethe Minister of Labour shall so appoint
7.05	The decision ofthe majorityof the Board shall be final and binding upon both parties and each party shall
6
pay the expenses of the Chairman of the Board.
7.06	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not gone through the Grievance Procedure, and the Board may not make any decision inconsistent with this Agreement nor alter or modify this Agreement.
7.07	No person may serve on a Board of Arbitration who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
ARTICLE 8
SENIORITY
8.01	a) Subject to 8.01 (b) the Company agrees to recognize the length of service with the Company in making promotions, transfers, filling new position, vacancies, lay-offs and rehiring within the groups, provided the employee has the ability to perform the duties to be performed.
When a temporary lay-off occurs, employees will be called back to work on a seniority basis and in reverse order of lay-offs. The Company will notify the Union Office when an employee who has been laid off is called back to work.
b)	Employeeswho were transferred to the Trans Canada Freezer location at the time of the closing of Crescent Creamery on or about Decemberl 986, will retaintheir same seniority date from Crescent Creamery thereby receiving credit for their service with Crescent Creamery. Employees of Modern Dairies working at or out of theSt. JosephSt. Plant or the Tache Street Warehouse shall not have
7
any seniority standing or seniority rights at the Trans Canada Freezer warehouse over employees who were transferred from Crescent Creamery. Coincident with the closing of Crescent Creamery the names of the employees actively employed on a full time basis at the Trans Canada Freezer warehousewillbeaddedtothe Modern Dairies St. Joseph Street senioritylistwith the date of February 1, 1987. The employees will be listedin the order of their seniorityat Crescent Creamery. For purposesof seniority, the date as shown on the Company's Seniority List shall be the determining factor.
c)	The Company agreesto forward to the Union Committeewithinthirty (30) days of the signing of this Agreement a list of the employees includedin this Agreement, giving the date on which each employee joined the Company. The Company agrees to furnish the Union Committee with a list containing the names and addresses and department numbers, deletions and additions each month.
d)	A list showing seniorityof service shallbe kept posted on the Union's notice boards and revised in January and July of each year.
8.02	An employee's seniority shall be forfeited and his employmentshall be deemedto be terminatedfor any of the following reasons:
a)	he quits or resigns or accepts severance payment;
b)	he retires or is retired;
8
c)	he is discharged and not reinstated through the grievance procedure;
d)	he is laid off for a period in excess of twelve (12) months;
e)	hefailsto respondto recall from lay-offwithin five (5) working days after the Company has contacted him, and delivered or sent by registeredmail or courier, a notice of recall to the last address on the Company’s records;
f)	he is absent for more than three (3)working days without having appliedfor and obtained a leave of absence for a definite period from the management or unless a reason satisfactory to management has been given.
ARTICLES
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
9.01	An employee who is displaced from his job by virtue of technological change will be given the opportunity to fill other vacancies whichare, orbecome, available. Such an employee to receive no reduction in pay.
ARTICLE 10
BULLETIN BOARDS
10.01	The Company agreesto providethree (3) bulletin boards for the Union to be placed in the plants in departments mutually agreed upon for proper Union business.
ARTICLE 11
SUPPLY OF WORK CLOTHING
11.01	a) The Company will supply and pay
the full cost of production employee's aprons, whites (coverall, slacks and shirts and greens as required).
b)	Production, garage, and truck driver employees shall be supplied with overalls where necessary at no cost to the employee. Parkas to be made available to the garage employees.
c)	The Company will maintain the clothing as provided in a) andb), in a clean and satisfactory condition.
d)	Employeesonthe unloadingdockwill besupplied with parkas and mitts and employeesworking in theice cream freezer shall be suppliedwith mitts, parkas, insulatedpants and i nsulatedvests at no cost to the employee.
e)	Driver-salesmenshall be supplied with uniforms includingthree (3) pants, three (3) shirts, a tie, an insulated vest, a jacket, a pair of gloves and aprons with the Company paying 100% of the cost. The uniform shall remainthe property of the Company and shall be returnedto the Company when the employee is laidoff or terminates. If the uniform is not returned to the Company, it may deductthe cost cf same from any monies owing to the employee.
f)	i) Driver-salesmen
Driver-salesmenshall receive once annually on proof of purchase of approved safety footwear, a safety footwear allowance. Employees who receive the safety footwear allowance are requiredto wear safetyfootwear at all times while on duty.
10
ii)	Production
Full time production employees, may on an optional basis, receive once in each calendar year on proof of purchase of approved safety footwear, a safety footwear allowance. Employees who receive the safety footwear allowanceare requiredto wear safety footwear at all times while on duty. Laboratory and wash-up employees shall not be entitled to this allowance. The Companywill continue to supply, at no cost to the employee, safety toed rubber boots or rubbers in accordance with currentpolicyto those employees who do not elect to receive the safety footwear allowance. Relief employees who perform wash-up duties will be eligible to receive the safety footwear allowance and the safetytoed rubber boots.
iii)	The safety footwear allowance will be as follows:
Effective on February 1, 1990 — $35.00 Effective on March 11, 1990	— $40.00
Effectiveon February 1, 1991 — $45.00 Effective on February 1, 1992 — $50.00 The amount of allowanceshall notexceed the actual cost of the safety footwear.
ARTICLE 12 ACCOUNTING TIME
12.01	It is agreedby the Company that driver-salesmen shall be allowed to drive in, unload their returns and
11
settle their accounts as soon as their routes are properly finished.
ARTICLE 13
DRIVER-SALESMEN'S STARTING TIME
13.01	No employee of the DistributionDepartmentshall be expected on the premises of the Company before 6:00 a.m. as per by-law.
ARTICLE 14 ROUTE REDUCTION
14.01	In the event of a route being disposed of, the employee affected shall retain his seniority and shall have the privilege of taking over the route or job being worked by thejunior man i n the Distribution Department. Such employee exercising his seniority rights and bumping into anotherjob in distribution shall receive his regular rate.
Driver-salesmen affected in this manner will not be requiredto qualify as in Section (d), Article 23, covering Route and Job Posting, for the purpose of bidding on route vacancies.
ARTICLE 15
CASES AND EQUIPMENT
15.01	It i s agreedthat driver-salesmenat the discretion of the Company can be charged for cases or equipment and the driver-salesmen will in turn pass the charge on to the customer provided that arrangements are made that the goods or chattels can be checked in daily and further that if any loss is i ncurredby the driver-salesman, hewill be given a fair hearing before any claim is made.
12
ARTICLE 16
DRIVER-SALESMEN’S BONDS
16.01	Wholesaledriver-salesmenshall depositwiththe Company the minimum sum of Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) as bond or indemnity against loss to the Company which sum shall be returned to the driver-salesman when leaving the service of the Company. The Company agrees to pay interest yearly on all monies held by them at the rate of bank interest on savings account in effect each January 1, provided that the bond is fully paid up. Paymentof interestwill be made prior to February 15th, of each year.
ARTICLE 17
DRIVER-SALESMEN NOT TO OIL AND REPAIR TRUCKS
17.01	Driver-salesmen and reliefmen shall have nothing to do with greasing, oiling, repairing or washing trucks or any inside work. Driver-salesmen and reliefmen, having under their control equipment with pneumatic tires shall see that this equipment is properly inflated. Each driver-salesman is responsible for keeping the interior of the cab of his truck in a clean condition. Each driver-salesman is responsible to promptly reportto Managementand Auto-Pac any accident cr damage involving his vehicle.
17.02	Driver-salesmen, when required to fill out truck repair report, shall make out in triplicatewith one (1)copy to the Garage, one (1) for the Company and one (1) to be retained by the employee concerned.
13
ARTICLE 18
CHECKING ROUTE BOOK
18.01	Every new driver-salesman upon assuming his duties or responsibilitieson his own shall have his route bookcheckedby an official authorizedby the Company, to assure his competency to keep a true account.
ARTICLE 19
DRIVER-SALESMEN TO ASSIST EACH OTHER
19.01	All milk shall be loadedon trucks and conveyors, and all driver-salesmen shall assist each other to load and unload their vehicles.
ARTICLE 20 CREDIT ACCOUNTS
20.01	Credit for accounts may only be extendedwhere the driver has received the prior written authorization from the Company. The Company shall not be responsible for any credit that it did not authorize.
ARTICLE 21 ACCIDENT LOSS
21.01	In the case of an accident causing major loss through breakage the driver-salesman shall be given a fair hearing before a decision is reached. Allowance shall be made for each day on proper evidence being furnishedfor all goods. broken,stolen, spilled or soured.
ARTICLE 22
ROUTE AND JOB POSTING
22.01	a) Subject to 8.01 (b) the Company agrees
seniority and ability shall be the determining factors when route or job vacancies are
14
available. Subject to (c) below, route or job vacancies shall be posted on the Union's Bulletin Boards within two (2) working days of the vacancy occurringand shall remain on the Union's Bulletin Boards for three (3) working days during which time applications for the route or job vacancies shall be made to the Department Manager. The Company will accept a written application, on behalf of an employee absent onvacation, presented by a Union officer, it being agreed and understood such employee shall accept the new position in accordance with 23.01 (b) if he is the successful applicant.
b)	The Company shall post a notice as to the successful applicantto fill the vacant position within five (5) working days following the last day on which applications were submitted to the Company in accordance with the notice posted. The successful applicant shall be placedon thejob or route as soon as practical or in any case within ten (10) working days of the decision.
c)	The Companywillpostfortheoriginalopening and the first backup position. Thereafter the Company can fill at its discretion.
d)	Driver-salesmenmakingapplicationfora route vacancy must have served his present route for a period of not less than four (4) months and plant employees who make application for a job posting must have worked in his present job for a period of not less than four (4) months.
15
e)	Intheeventofa productionjobbeingdisposed of, the employee affected shall retain his seniority and havetheprivilegeof taking over the productionjob then being worked by the junior man.
ARTICLE 23
TERMINATING EMPLOYMENT
23.01	Employees wishing to leave the service of the Company shall give the Company two (2) weeks notice and in the event of the Company wishing to discharge an employee they shall give him two (2) weeks notice. The Company agrees to have the book checked within the notice period at the expiration of which week the employee shall receive all monies due to him.
ARTICLE24
IN LIEU OF TWO WEEK'S NOTICE
24.01	In lieuof two (2) weeks noticethe employee shall receive two (2) week's wage in advance. Proven drinking of alcoholic beverages while on duty, dishonesty, incompetency,absence without leave, shall be reason for dismissal without notice.
Employees who have not given proper “leaving notice” may have deducted from monies due but not paid, for wages or vacation pay the amount of which would have beenearned by the employee duringthe periodof notice which should have been given the Company.
ARTICLE25 VACATIONS WITH PAY
25.01	a) Holiday schedules shall be arranged by
the Company beginning in the month of
16
February. Lists requesting employees preferred vacation dates will be posted by February 1, and will remain posted until March 1. The lists will be taken down on March 1 for review by management. An Employee who submits vacation dates following March 1, may only apply for available dates.
Seniority of service shall determine choice of holidaysforallemployeesneach department excluding foremen, so long as operations are not disrupted.
The normal holiday period shall be between May 1 st and the end of the second full week of October.
b)	After these lists are preparedand beforethey are posted, a meeting will be held between the Company and the Union to ratify such lists.
The Company agrees that vacancies that occur after the posting of the holiday lists shall be dealt with by the management and the Union.
25.02	a) All employees with less than one (1) year's service shall be paid four percent (4%), or equivalent in days off prior to May 1st.
b)	An employee in the service of the Company who has completed one (1) year's service shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay annually.
c)	All employees with service of three (3) years or more prior to May 1st shall be entitled to
17
three (3)weeks holiday with pay annually.
d)	All employees with eight (8) years of service or more priorto May 1 st shall receivefour (4) weeks vacation with pay. The fourth (4th) week of vacation must be taken between the beginningof the third full weekin October and April 30th.
e)	All employees with eighteen (18) years of service or more prior to May 1st shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay. The fourth (4th) andfifth (5th) weeks of vacation must be taken between the beginning of the third full week in October and April 30th.
(f) All employees with twenty-two (22) years of service or more priorto May 1 st shall receive six (6) weeks vacation with pay The fourth (4th), fifth (5th) and sixth (6th) weeks of vacation must be taken betweenthe beginning of the thirdfull week in October andApril 30th.
25.03	Should an employee who is entitled to holiday resign or be discharged, said employee shall receive pay in lieu of holidays at these rates:
—	an employee entitled to two (2) weeks holidays shall be paid four percent (4%) of his total earnings in that vacation year;
—	an employee entitled to three (3) weeks holidays shall be paid six percent (6%) of his total earnings in that vacation year
—	anemployeeentitiedtofour(4)weeks holidays shall be paid eight percent (8%) of his total earnings in that vacation year
18
—	an employee entitled to five (5) weeks holidays shall be paid ten percent (10%) of his total earnings in that vacation year
—	anemployee entitledto six (6weeks holidays shall be paid twelve percent (12%) of his total earnings in that vacation year
25.04	Employees not covered by the foregoing vacation provisions shall be paid vacation benefits as providedinthe ProvinceofManitoba Vacations with Pay Act.
25.05	Any temporary lapse in employment due to illness oraccidentto theemployeeshallnotaffectthecontinuity cf employment for vacation purposes
25.06	If a statutory holiday falls in an employee's holidayperiod, an additional day's holidaywill beallowed or a day's pay in lieu thereof. Additional day's holiday shall be mutually agreed upon between the employee and employer.
25.07	Each weeks holiday with pay will be the regular weekly base rate. A regular day's pay shall be one-fifth (1/5) of the regular weekly base rate for those employee on a five (5) day schedule, and one-quarter (1/4) of the regular weekly base rate for those employees on a four (4) day schedule.
25.08	Before leavingfortheirvacation, employee shall be entitled to their vacation pay for the portion of their vacation period upon which they are embarking. The employee shall advise the payroll departmentthree (3) weeks inadvance if hechanges his scheduled vacation, except in special circumstances.
25.09	All employees entitled to vacation shall take same in the current vacation year. Vacation entitlement
19
shall not be carriedover to a subsequent vacation year. The vacation year is from May 1st to the following April 30th.
25.10	A temporary lapse in employment due to illness or accidents to the employee shall not affect continuity ofemploymentforpurposesofvacationcredits. However, for purposesof vacationti me off andpay, such employee shallbe dealtwith in accordance with thefollowing scale:
Absent one (1) day to thirteen (13) weeks — 100%
Absent thirteen (13) weeks to
twenty-six (26) weeks	—	75%
Absent twenty-six (26)weeks to
thirty-nine (39) weeks	—	50%
Absent thirty-nine (39) weeks
to fifty-two (52)weeks	—	25%
Absent more than fifty-two
(52) weeks	— novacation
ARTICLE 26 REST PERIOD
26.01	Allemployeesshallbegivenafifteen (15)minute rest period midway through each four (4) hour shift for those employees on a five (5) day schedule, andmidway through each five (5)h our shift for those employees on a four (4) day schedule.
ARTICLE 27
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
27.01	The following or any day substituted shall be recognized as Statutory Holidayswith pay at straight time rate:
20
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Civic Holiday (First Monday in Aug.)
and all other holidays proclaimed by Federal and Provincial Governments.
27.02	The Company will grant each employee having more than six (^months seniority a floating holiday. This Floating holiday will be arranged by mutual agreement between the Company and the employee, and shall be taken prior to the last pay period in the calendar year. In the event the Federal Government proclaims an additional statutory holiday, this floating holiday will cease.
27.03	If a Statutory Holiday falls on an employee's regular day off, the employee shall receive an additional day's pay or an additional day off by mutual agreement in advance of the holiday.
27.04	Employees must work the normal working day prior to and the normal working day following a Statutory Holiday in order to receive payment for the Statutory Holiday. Exception to this will be as follows:
a)	Death in the immediate family i.e.wife, husband, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren or children of the employee.
21
;b) Absence due to illness where the employee is not receiving payment from the Company, a weekly indemnity plan or Workers' Compensation, and provided the employee has actively worked within fifteen (15) calendar days of the Statutory Holiday.
c)	Permission from the Company
d)	Jury Duty or subpoenaed witness.
ARTICLE 28 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
28,01	a) Employeeswillbegrantednecessaryleaveof absence without pay to attend their meetings and conventions. Such leave will be granted them only when it will not interfere with the requirements of the service and providedthe Company is notputto any additionalexpense.
b)	Employeeswillbe granted a leave of absence atthediscretionofthe Company notto exceed ninety (90)days, Permissionshallbeobtained in writing. If employees granted such leave returnto work later than the agreed date, they shall lose their seniority ranking and their service shallbedeemed terminated. However, such leave may be extended by the company prior to the expiration of leave for reasons of bona fide sickness
c)	Leave of absence will not be granted under (b) above for the purpose of engaging in work outside the Company's service, except the Company agrees to grant leave of absence without pay and at no cost to the Company
22
for a period of not more than twelve (12) months which may be renewed at the Company'sdiscretion to any employee elected to off ice as a UnionOfficer who is required by the Union to take time off for official Union business.
d)	Such leave will be requestedthree (3) weeks prior to the appropriate date and will be confirmed by the Company no later than one (1) week prior to the requested leave date.
ARTICLE 29 HOURS OF WORK
29.01	Hours of work for production employees shall be forty (40)hours per week, to be worked in five (5) days orfour (4) days. Overtime rates will be paidaftereight (8) hours worked in a day on a five (5)day schedule,of after ten (10) hours worked in a day on a four (4) day schedule. Overtime will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) the regular rate. For all hoursworked over forty-four (44) hours in a week the rate will be double time (2x) the regular rate.
Normal days off for all employees shall be Saturday and Sunday.
No employee shall be sent home for the purpose of avoiding overtime due to accumulatedhours previously worked in that week.
29.02	Work performed on regular scheduled days off shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) for all employees.
29.03	An employee called in to work on a Statutory Holiday shall be guaranteed not less than six (6) hours
23
work at overtime rates of pay.
29.04	No plant employee shall be required to work more than five (5) hours without a meal break of thirty (30) minutes duration.
29.05	Employeesrequiredto workovertimeshall not be required to punch out for meal breaks after a regular day's work.
29.06	All productionemployeesrequiredtoworktwo(2) unscheduled hours beyond his regular scheduled shift shall be providedwith a meal or given a meal allowance cf six dollars and fifty cents ($6.50). The mealallowance will be included in the employee’s regular pay cheque. Effective February 1, 1991, the meal allowance will be increasedto seven dollars ($7.00).
ARTICLE 30 WAGES
30.01	Hourly Base
Rate Effective May 17 1993
Distribution Employees 15.64 Wholesale Route Sparemen/Holiday Men Special Trucks Ice Cream Route
30.02	All newdriver-salesmenshall receive up to four (4) weeks’ training and shall be paid at a rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) below the base rate per week while learning.
Hourly Base Rate Effective January 23 1994
15.95
24
Immediately on assuming responsibility of his own or any route, he shall be paid the base rate wage.
30.03
Hourly Base	Hourly Base
Rate Effective	Rate Effective
May 17,	January 23
1993	1994
Production Employees
Group "A"	15.75	15.95
Milk and Cream Receiver
Pasteurizer
Pure-pak Filler Operator Pouch-pak Filler Operator Portion Pak Operator
Dispenser Operator (Bag N Box)
Ice Cream Department Storage Department Shipping/Receiving Driver/Shuntman Laboratory
General Plant Relief Man
NightWashup
Jug Filler
25
Hourly Base	Hourly Base
Rate Effective	RateEffective
May 17,	January 23,
1993	1994
Group “B”	15.75	15.95
Trans Canada Freezer Warehouse 1
Group “C”	15.51	15.71
General Plant Help
30.04	Inexperienced dairy help shall be paid at the hourly base rate less one dollar and twenty-five cents ($1.25)for the first twenty (20)working days. Thereafter, they shall be paidthe rateof pay of the classificationthen being worked as outlined in this Agreement.
30.05	The Company will pay all full time employeeson thepayrollon May8, 1993, a bonusoftwo hundredand fifty dollars ($250.00) at the time the collective agreement is signed.
30.06	The Company will pay all full time employees on the payroll on January 2,1995, a bonusof one hundred dollars ($100.00).
ARTICLE 31
GENERAL PROVISIONS
31.01	Higher Classification— Any employee who is assignedto relieve in a higherclassificationthan his own shall receive the rate of such classificationfrom the first full day of work in such classification.
26
31.02	Shift Premium— All employees who work the major portion of their assigned shifts, four (4) hours or more, or five (5)hours or more, dependingon the length oftheassignedshift, betweenthe hoursof 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. shall receive seventy cents ($0.70) per hour over and above the regular rate of pay for all hours worked on such shifts.
31.03	Ice Cream Freezer Premium — Any employee who spends the majority of his working time actually in the ice cream freezer shall receive a special premiumof twenty dollars ($20.00) per week.
31.04	Sunday Premium— Shippers and receivers scheduled to workon Sunday shall receive a premium of ninety cents ($0.90) per hour for all hours worked on Sunday.
31.05	Discrimination—The Manitoba Human Rights Act prohibitsdiscriminationbecauseofa person’srace, nationality, religion, colour, sex, age, ethnic/national origin, marital status, source of income and political belief.
31.06	Circling of Specials— Driver-salesmenwill be required to circle special items.
31.07	Route Consolidation — Where two or more routes are consolidated the driver-salesmen affected will be given the choice of preferred route on the basis of seniority and ability to do the work.
31.08	Employeeswill be paid on a bi-weekly basis.
31.09	An adjustment of twenty dollars ($20.00) per week will be payable to those employees classified as General Plant Relief who are qualifiedaccordingto the Company, to perform four or more production jobs.
27
Such employees must re-qualify on each such production job at least every six months in order to remain eligible for this premium.
ARTICLE 32 HOSPITALIZATION
32.01	(i) It is agreed that the Company assume one-half the cost of the Manitoba HospitalService Plan, and one-half the cost of the Manitoba Health Service “H.C.X.” Plan until Medicare becomes effective. The Company shall then contribute Four Dollars and Ninety-two cents ($4.92) per month per employee on the individualplan and Eleven Dollarsand Forty-seven cents($1 1,47)per month peremployee on the family plan.
(ii) Weekly Indemnity
The Company provides an insured weekly indemnity benefit at no premium cost to the employees which effective February 1,1992, provides a weekly benefit of 66-2/3% of the employees base rate up to a maximum of three hundred and ninety-five dollars ($395.00). The Company agrees to pay full wages forthefirst, secondandthirdscheduled working day off for sickness provided the employee establishes a claim for sick benefits. An employee off work at the effective dates would not be eligible for the increasedbenefit until he has returned to work and become eligible for a new claim under the terms of the plan.
28
(iii) Dental
The Company provides an insuredCompany administered dental plan through its carrier with the Companypayingseventy-five percent (75%) of the premium cost with theemployees paying twenty-five percent (25%) of the premium cost of the Dental Plan. Effective June 1,1993, benefitswill increasefrom 1991 M.D.A. and will be paid on 1992 M.D.A. Fee Schedule. EffectiveFebruaryl, 1994, benefits will be paid on 1993 M.D.A. Fees Schedule. Coverage for intermediate procedures is included in the present Dental Plan. This coverage is on a fifty percent (50%) co-insurancebasis. The maximum dentalbenefit payable in any one (1) year period for all dental services rendered under the plan is one thousand dollars($1,000.00) perperson. (tv) Lite Insurance
EffectiveFebruaryl, 1991, theCompanywill pay the full premium cost to provide a benefit of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) life insurance for each full time employee who has completed the probation period. The insurance will cease on termination or retirement in accordance with the rules and regulations of the policy.
(v) Long Term Disability
Effective May 1, 1990, the Company will arrange for an Long Term Disability benefit through its insurance carrier. The benefit will be based on sixty percent (60%) of the
29
employee's base rate up to a maximum of $1,250.00 per month subjecttothetermsand conditions of the plan. The maximum benefit period is twenty-four months following a qualifying disability period of fifty-two (52) weeks of continuous disability. Benefits received by an employee under the Canada Pension Plan only, shall not be an off-set under this plan, however other income shall be an off-set. Benefits shall cease at the earlier of twenty-four (24) months or age sixty-five (65). The premium cast will be shared with the Company and employees each paying fifty (50%) percent.
ARTICLE 33 GENERAL
33.01	No employee shall be askedor permittedto make a written or verbal agreement which may conflict with this Agreement.
ARTICLE 34 PENSION PLAN
34.01	The Company providesa pension benefit as set out in Appendix "A"which is attached hereto and forms part of this Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 35
RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES
35.01	The Company agrees that all existing privileges and conditionsnow enjoyed by the employees shall not be disturbed and shall continue as heretofore.
Any employee who at the time of the signing of this
30
Agreement is receiving a higher rate than that specified in the wage scale shall not have his wage reduced.
ARTICLE 36 BEREAVEMENT
36.01	In the event of a death in the immediate family, i.e., husband, wife, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, or children of an employee covered in this Agreement, the Company agrees to grant up to three (3) days leave of absence with full pay for justifiable absence.
The Company will grant one (1) day leave of absence with payment for working time lost resulting from an employee acting as a pallbeareror becauseof the death of brother-in-law, sister-in-law or grandchildren.
ARTICLE 37
JURY DUTY
37.01	(a) The Company will, on receiving from an
employee a certificate from a proper officer of the Court certifying that the said employee has been required to report for jury duty for a number of days to be stated in the same certificate and that the said employee has receiveda sum to be stated in the certificate, pay to the employee the difference between the sum of money stated i n the certificateand the sum the employee would have received had he worked during the periodreferredto in the certificate.
(b) Employees required to do jury duty on days off: Payment for same shall accrue to the employees.
31
(c) An employeewho hasbeensubpoenaedas a witness shall be paid the difference between the witness fees and his regular daily rate.
ARTICLE 38 GENDER
38.01	In this Agreement whenever the masculine gender is used it shall be construed to be the masculine gender or the feminine as the context requires.
ARTICLE 39
PERSONAL INFORMATION
39.01	It is the responsibility of each employee to notify the Company of any change in his home address and mailing address if different from his home address, telephone number, marital status, number of dependents or other vital statistics. Failuretokeepthe Company informedof the above matterswill releasethe Company of any responsibilityforfailureto comply with any partof this Agreement where such information is necessary in order to comply.
ARTICLE 40
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
40.01	Itis understoodandagreedthat the partiesto this Agreement are governed by the provisions of Section 89(2) of the Manitoba Labour Relations Act.
The Company agrees not to ask or expecta member of the Union to cross legally established picket lines. However, if a strike occurs which affects the operations of the Company, the Union and the Company shall at once call a meeting to discuss the operation of this clause,
32
ARTICLE 41 SEVERANCE PAY
41.01	A regular full time employee with five (5) or more years of continuous service who is permanently laid off and who is not subject to recall shall receive severance pay basedon one (1 )wee ks pay for each complete year of continuous service up to a maximum of twenty (20) weeks pay.
ARTICLE 42
BUSINESS AGENT VISITS
42.01	Duly authorized full time representatives of the Union shall be entitled to visit the plant for the purpose of communicatingwith bargaining unit employees. The Representative shall notify the Plant Manager in advance, to arrange for his visit, which shall take place at a time and placeagreeablewith the Plant Manager so as not to disrupt the operation of the workplace. The Rep-resentativeshall not meetwith morethan one employee atatime, exceptwiththeexpresspermissionofthe Plant Manager or his designate.
ARTICLE 43
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
43.01	The Company will recognize up to three (3) bargaining unit employees to negotiate the renewal of this Agreement. Employees on the negotiating committee shall suffer no loss in pay for the time spent during their regular scheduled hours of work in attendance at negotiating meetings with Management. Such payment shall be for a maximum of six (6) days.
33
ARTICLE 44
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
44.01	Agreementto become effective May8,1993, and expire January 31, 1995, and thereaner from year to yvm unless wrinen notice of in tent to amendorterminate the Agreement isgiven by either partyto the otherparty, not morethan sixty (60) days and notlessthan thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of any yearly period. Upon receipt of the Union'sand Company'samendments, the Company shall within five (5) days of receipt of said amendments commence collective bargaining with a view to the renewal or revision of this Agreement or conclusion of a new Collective Labour Agreement.
TN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed this 20th day of May, 1993,
34
APPENDIX “A”
PENSION PLAN
1.01 Benefits for members of the Crown Life plan will be put on a paid up status as of January 31, 1982, and will be payable atthe time of retirementin accordance with the terms of that plan.
1.02	Effective February 1, 1982, the Company will implement a future service pay plan, non-contributory, which will provide to an employee at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefitof five dollars ($5.00) per month per years of future credited service,
1.03	Effective February 1, 1983, the Company will amend the future service pay plan, non-contributory, to provide employees at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of Ten Dollars ($10.00) per month per year of future credited service from February 1, 1983.
1.04	Effective February 1, 1985, the Company will amend the future service pay plan, non-contributory, to provide employees at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a Service related pension benefit of thirteen Dollars ($13.00) per month per year of future credited service from February 1, 1985.
1.05	Effective February 1, 1986, the Company will amend the future service pay plan, non-contributory, to provide employees at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65)a service relatedpension benefitof Fifteen Dollars ($15.00) per month per year of future credited service from February 1,1986.
1.06	Effective February 1, 1987, the Company will
35
amend the future service pay plan, non-contributory, to provide employees at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of Seventeen Dollars ($17.00) per month per year of future credited service from February 1, 1987.
1.07	Effective February 1, 1988, the Company will amend future service pay plan, non-contributory, to provide employees at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of Nineteen Dollars ($19.00) per month per year of future creditedservicefrom February 1, 1988.
1.08	Effective February 1, 1989, the Company will amend the future service pay plan, non-contributory, to provide employees at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of Twenty-one Dollars ($21.00) per month per year of future creditedservicefrom February 1, 1989.
1.09	Effective February 1, 1990, the Company will amend the future service pay plan, non-contributory, to provide employees at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of Twenty-four Dollars ($24.00) per month per year of future credited service from February 1, 1990
1.10	Effective February 1, 1991, the Company will amend the future service pay plan, non-contributory, to provide employees at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of Thirty Dollars ($30.00) per month per year of future creditedservicefrom February 1, 1991.
36
May 19,1993 Mr. David Hisco,
Manitoba Joint Council Representative Retail, Wholesale & Department Store Union 404 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear David:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirmthe changestothe Weekly Indemnity Plan which the Company implementedin 1985 to the effectthat: The Company will amend the Plan effective May1, 1985, to provide that weekly indemnity benefits will be payable from the insurancecarrier from the first scheduled work day absent due to non-compensable accident or the fourth scheduled work day absent due to sicknessto the end of the four (4) weeks from the original date of absence. Providedan employee continuesto qualify he couldthen go on U.I.C. for fifteen (15) weeks followed by a further thirty-three (33) weeks on weekly indemnity in accordance with the termsofthe Plan. Effective July 1,1987, if an employee has exhausted his U.I.C. indemnity benefit, the Company will allow himto receiveweekly indemnitybenetits underthe Company Pian in keeping with the terms cf the Plan. Yours truly,
BEATRICE FOOD INC.
MODERN DAIRIES -WINNIPEG DIVISION
R. E. Dunsford, General Manager
37
May 19, 1993
Mr. David Hisco,
ManitobaJoint Council Representative Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union 404 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear David:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm the undertaking that the Company agreedto duringthe recently concluded negotiationsfor the renewal of the Modern Dairies— Winnipeg Agreement, which expires on January 31, 1995 to the effect that:
When the Company intends to franchisea route, the affected employee (i.e. - the driver on fie mute affected, or the junior employee if a bump is involved) will be given first consideration.
Yours truly,
BEATRICE FOODS INC.
MODERN DAIRIES— WINNIPEG DIVISION
R.E. Dunsford, General Manager
38
May 19, 1993
Mr. David Hisco,
Manitoba Joint Council Representative Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union 404 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear David:
LETTER CF AGREEMENT RE: WORK ON SATURDAY AND/OR SUNDAY
In the event the Company determines a need to schedule employees to work on Saturday and/or Sunday in order to properly service customer needs as a result of Sunday shopping and/or competitive activity, the union agreesto meet with the Companyto negotiate revisions to Article 30 Hours cf Work with respect to the scheduling of days off on weekends and Article 31 General Provisions clause 31.04, Sunday Premium.
Dated at Winnipeg, Manitoba, this 20th day cf May, 1993.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
/i/v

39
Beatrice Foods Inc.
Modern Dairies_ Winnipeg Division P.O. Box 40 St. Boniface Winnipeg, Manitoba R2H 3B4
Attention: Mr. George Wakefield Dear Mr. Wakefield:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: DAYS OFF
This will confirm the agreement by the Union in its Letter of UnderstandingdatedJuly22,1989 which was agreed to during the recently concluded negotiations for the Modern Dairies— Winnipeg Agreement which expires on January 31, 1995 to the effect that:
NotwithstandingArticle 29.01, the Company can continueto schedule days off for shippers and receivers who workon weekends as at present. The Company can continueto schedule employees at Modem Dairies — Winnipeg who are currently working their forty (40) hours in a four (4) day week.
AGREED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION
40
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
BEATRICE FOODS INC.,
MODERN DAIRIES— WINNIPEG DIVISION (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
AND:
THE RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION
AFL-CIO, CLC, AND ITS LOCAL 755 RETAIL, WHOLESALE DAIRY WORKERS UNION (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
Expiry Date : January 31,1995
PREAMBLE
The union recognizesthe Company's need for part-time employees in addition to seasonal employees. The Company agrees that the number of part-time employees (exclusive cf seasonal employees) working at any one time will not exceed 15% of the full time staff in the respective full time group, except in cases of emergency or other circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the Company. The Company will advise the Union of the circumstances or emergency. All matters relating to regular part-time, or casual employees including their wages, hours and working conditions shall be as set out in this document.
41
ARTICLE 1
DEFINITIONS
Fulltime	— normally works 40 hours per
week on a regularly scheduled basis.
Regular part-time— normally works 24 hoursorless per week on a regularly scheduled basis.
Casual part-time — an employee hiredon an irregular, as requiredbasis throughout the year.
Seasonal	__ an employee hired to work
betweenApril 15 to Septembers
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent of all employees of the Company within the scope of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 SCOPE
3.01	a) The scope of this Letter of agreement shall cover all part-timeemployeesof the Company save and except Main Office Staff, Stationary Engineers, Firemen, Foremen and those above the rank of foremen.
b) Notwithstandinganythingto the contrary, only those matterswhich are specificallysetout as such, shall apply to seasonal employees.
42
ARTICLE 4
MANAGEMENTCONTROL
4.01	Responsibilityfor planning, directing andcontrol-ling the business of the Company shall rest exclusively with Management, provided that these functions are exercised ina mannerthatwill not conflict with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. The Company retains all management rights except as specifically modified elsewhere in this Agreement.
4.02	A probationary employee may be discharged without cause and at the sole discretion of the Company. Such employee does not have recourseto the grievance and arbitration sections of this Agreement. The probationary period shall be ninety (90) shifts worked.
ARTICLE 5 UNION SECURITY
5.01	a) Part-time employees including seasonal employees must join the Union within thirty (30) days of being hired.
b)	The Company agrees upon a compulsory check-off of Union dues upon all employees who fall within the bargaining unit as certified by the Manitoba Labour Relations Board and shall transmit the amount so deducted to the Union upon authorization by the employee prior to the 15th day of each month.
c)	Subject to the Labour Relations Act S.M. 1987, c L10 s76 (1) (a), (b), (c), s76(3).
43
ARTICLE 6
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	The grievance procedure set out in the full time agreement will be followed.
ARTICLE 7 ARBITRATION
7.01	The procedure set out in the full time agreement will be followed.
ARTICLE 8 SENIORITY
8.01	Part-time employees will accumulate seniority within their group basedon the numberof hours worked since their most recent date of hire.
A seasonal employee who is transferredto regularparttime status will be credited with the number of hours worked since his last date of hire, for seniority purposes within that group.
Employees shall be given fifteen (15) minutes rest period midway through each four (4) hour shift.
ARTICLE 9
FULL TIME VACANCIES
9.01	The Companywill advise employeeswhen ithas a permanent full time vacancy which it wishes to fill so that interestedemployees may make applicationfor the position. The Company will give consideration to applications received from part-time employees before considering outside applications.
44
ARTICLE 10 WAGES
10.01	Hourly Base	Hourly Base
	Rate Effective	Rate Effective
	May 17,	January 23,
	1993	1994
Regular Part-time) 1st year	$10.15	$10.35
Casual		
Employees) 2nd year	$10.40	$10.60
3rd Year	$10.65	$10.85
10.02	Part-time employees who have worked during the pay period ending May 15,1993 will receive a bonus of one hundreddollars ($100.00) at the time the collective agreement is signed.
10.03	Seasonal Employees (April 15 to September!)
	Hourly Base	Hourly Base
	Rate Effective	Rate Effective
	May 17,	January 23
	1993	1994
1 st year of employment	$8.15	$8.35
2nd year f employment	$8.40	$8.60
3rd year of employment	$8.65	$8.85
10.04 Shift Premium
Employeeswho work the major portionof their assigned shifts, four (4) hours or more, or five (5) hours or more, depending on the length of the assigned shift, between the hours6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. shall receive seventy cents ($0.70) per hour over and above the regular rate of pay for all hours worked on such shifts.
45
10.05 Ice Cream Freezer Premium
An employee who spends the majority of his working time actually in the ice cream freezer shall receive a special premium of twenty dollars ($20.00) per week proratedfor the hours worked.
ARTICLE 11 GENDER
11.01	In this Agreement whenever the masculine gender is used it shall be construed to be the masculine gender or the feminine as the context requires.
ARTICLE 12
PERSONAL INFORMATION
12.01	It is the responsibilityof each employee to notify the Company of any change in his home address and mailing address if different from his home address, telephone number, marital status, number of dependents or other vital statistics. Failuretokeepthe Company informedof the above matterswill releasethe Company of any responsibilityfor failureto comply with any partof this Agreement where such information is necessary in order to comply.
ARTICLE 13
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
13.01	It is understoodand agreedthat the partiesto this Agreement are governed by the provisions cf Section 89(2) of the Manitoba Labour Relations Act.
46
ARTICLE 14
DURATION CF AGREEMENT
14.01	Agreement to become effective May 8,1893, and expire January 31, 1995, and thereafter from year to year unteas written notice of intent to amend or terminate the Agreement is given by either party to the other party, not more than sixty {60} days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of any yearly period. Upon receiptofthe Union'sand Company'samendments,the Company shall within five (5) days of receipt of said amendments commence collective bargaining with a view to the renewal <r revision of this Agreement or conclusion of a new Collective Labour Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES hereto have caused this Agreementtobe duly executed this 20th day of May, 1993.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION