00321 q3 j
Expiry Date: January 31. 1993
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN	BEATRICE FOODS INC .
MODERN DAIRIES - WINNIPEG DIVISION (hereinafter referred to ae the "Company")
AND	THE RETAIL. WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION
AFL-CJO, CLC, AN3 ITS LOCAL 755 RETAIL. WHOLESALE DAIRY WORKERS UNION (hereinafter referred to as the “Union*)
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
l.O:	The general purpose of this Agreement 1# to
establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees and to provide machinery tor the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours at work and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreeme n t .
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01
exclusive the scope
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and
bargaining agent of .nil employees of the Company within of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - SCOPE
3.01	3)	The scope of this Agreement ©hall cover
all employees of the Company save and except Main Office Staff, Stationary Engineers. Firemen. Foremen and those above the rank of Foremen and part-time, temporary, Maseru] and cousual employees covered by a subsisting agreement.
b)	The Company will supply the Union with a
list of foremen, superintendents, ©embers of the Management
Committee and other persons with authority, and will keep such list up to date.
ARTICLE	MANAGEMENT CONTROL
4.01	Responsibility for planning, directing and
controlling the business of the Company shall rest exclusively
with Management, provided that these functions are exercised In a nannsr that will not conflict with the Perms and conditions ob 'She Collective Agreement. The Company retains all management rights except as specifically modified elsewhere in thio
Agreement.
<5.02	A probationary employee may be discharged without
cause and at the sole discretion of the Employer. Such employee does not have recourse to the grievance and arbitration sections of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY
S.C1	s)	All present employees now secbers of the
Union as o condition, of employment must remain members in good standing during the life of the Agreement. All new employees oust become and remain members in good standing with the Union within thirty (30) days of their starting date of employment during the life of Phis Agreement. The Company will advise the union Steward within on@ (1) working day of the hiring of a new employee.
The Company agrees to give a memo Po every new employee with his first pay cheque indicating eo said employee that he is to Join the Union within thirty (30) days of being hired.
b)	The Coirpany agrees upon a compulsory
check-off of Union duce upon all employees who fall within the bargaining unit as certified by the Manitoba Labour Relation5 Board and ©hall transmit the mount so deducted to the Onion upon authorisation by the employee prior Po the 25th day of each month. All laid off employees who return eo work temporarily Ghall pay dues.
s)	subject to the Labour Relations Act S.K.
2.537, c UQ 376 U) (a) , (b) , (c) , o76(3) .
ARTICLE 3 - GRIEVANCE COKMITTEE AND PROCEDURE
S.OI	STEP 1 In the event that an employee feels that
he has been aggrieved, he shall immediately take the satter ceith the Shop Steward of that Department as soon as St is possible to do so taking into consideration the operation of the Job, co that nothing las in any way disrupted.
STEP 2 The Shop Steward shall then take the natter up with the entire Grievance Committee and the Committee □hall oake a request for a meeting with the Fleet and Distribution Kanag'er or Plant Superintendent, whichever the case
Page -3-
may be. The Fleet and Distribution Manager or the Plant Superintendent shall give hie decision.
STEP 3 Palling isat iaf actory settlement, then within three (3] working days of the decision at Step 2, the committee shall submit a written statement of such grievance, dated and signed by the employee, along with a written request for a meeting with the Manager of the Company or his designate. The nature of the grievance, the article of the agreement that has been violated, misapplied, or si s intsrpret ed and the relief or remedy sought shall be clearly set out in the grievance, A meeting shall take place within a further three f 3) working days and the parties shall attempt to settle the dispute as quickly as possible. The grievor shall attend the meeting. At this point the Union business agent may be called in at the request of either party. Any decision shall be given in writing within one (1) working day of the above meeting.
6-02	In Articles 6 and 7 the time limits used shall be
working days and shall not include Saturdays. Sundays, or Statutory Holidays.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
7.02	En the event that the parties are still not in agreement then Either party ray invoke arbitration. It either party requests arbitration they shall give to the other party such notice In writing within ten (10) days after Step 3 has been completed, end at the same time irhall name their appointee.
7.02	The recipient of the notice shall within three 13) days nominate ®nd notify the Other party of their appointee.
7.03	The two appointees shall communicate within five (5) days cf the appointment of the second of them for the purpose of selecting a third party who shall be Chairman.
7.04	In the event that the second party fails to appoint in the time allotted or the two appointees fall to agree the Minister of Labour shall so appoint.
7.05	The decision of the asjorlty of the Board shall be final and binding upon both parties and each party shall pay the expenses of the Chairman of the Board.
7.06	JTo matter may De submitted to arbitration which has not gone through the Grievance Procedure, and the Board say not
make any decision inconsistent with this Agreement nor alter or modify this Agreement.
Page -i
? 07	Mo person ray serve on o Board of Arbitration who
has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance
ARTICLE
SENIORITY
3.01	a)	Subject Po B.01 (b) the Cospany agreeo to
recognize the length cl service with ?he Company in salting promotions, transfer, Silling new position, vacancies, lay-off© and rehiring within the groups, provided the employee has the
ability to perform the duties to be performed.
feJhen s temporary lay-off occurs, eaployess will Be called back to work on a seniority basis and in reverse order of lay-offs. The Company will notify the Union Office when an employee who has been laid off i® called back 'towork.
b)	Employees who were transferred to the
Trans Canada Freezer location at the time of the closing of Crescent Creamery an o.-; about December 1966, will retain their same seniority date froa Crescent Creamery thereby receiving credit for their service with Crescent Creamery. Employees of Modern Dairies working at or out of the St. Joseph SI. plant or the Tsche street Warehouse ahall not hove any seniority ©tending or seniority rights at the Trane Canada Freezer warehouse over employees who sen; transferred Prom Crescent Creamery.
Coincident with the closing of Crescent Creamery the oase© of the emp.loyec-s actively employed on a full time basis at the Trans Canada Freezer warehouse will be added to the Modern Dairies St. Joseph Street seniority list with the dote of February 1. 1987, The employees will be iisted In the order of their -seniority at Crescent Creamery. Former Crescent Creamery employees will not be eligible to exercise their Hodern Dairies seniority at Modern Dairies SI. Joseph Street until February 1,	1988, lor purposes
of seniority, the date as shown on the Company's Seniority list shell be the determining factor.
®)	The Coopany agrees to forward to the Dnion
Committee within thirty {30} day© of the signing of this Agreement a list of the employees Included In thi® Agreement, giving the dote on which each employee joined the Company. The Company agrees to furnish the Onion Committee with a list containing the nanes find addresses and department number©, delations and additions each month.
d)	A list showing seniority of service shall
be kept posted on the Union'© notice boards and revised la January and July of each year.
0.02 An employee'© senior! employment Shell be deemed to be to foil owing reasons?:
shall be forfeited and his
svated for any of the
Page -5-
he quits or resigns or accepts severance
b)
c)
through the grievance
he retire® or lo retired;
he is discharged and not reinstated procedure;
A)
twelve (12) months
he is laid off for a period In excess of
®)	he fails to roopond to recall from lay-off
within five (5) storking days siit«r tho Company has contacted him, and delivered or sent by registered anil or courier, a notice of recall to the last address on the Coap-any'® record*;
f)	ha Is absent for sore than three (3)
working days without having applied for and obtained a leave of absence for a definite period from the management or u_n 1 e s s a
reason satisfactory to management has been given.
ARTICLE 9 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHARGE
9.01	An employee rho Is displaced tram hla job by virtue
of technological change will be given the opportunity to fill other vacancies which are, or become, available. Such on employee to receive no reduction 'in pay.
ARTICLE JO - BULLETIN BOARDS
20.01	The Coapany agrees to provide three (3) bulletin
boards for the Union to be placed in the plants in departments mutually agreed upon for proper Onion business.
ARTICLE 2i - SUPPLY 0? WORK CLOTHING
3 3.02	*)	The Cospnny will supply end pay the full
Cost of production employee*' sprons. whites (coveralls, slack® and shirts and greens as required).
b)	Production, garage, and truck driver employees shall be supplied with overall* *her« necessary at no cost eo the eaployee. Parkas to be made available to the garage employees.
c)	the Coapiiny will aaintain the clothing as provided in I) $nd b), 'ina claan and satisfactory condition.
dl	Employees on the unloading dock will b«
supplied with parkas end mitts and employees working In the ice
Page -3-
sreas; freeze? shall be supplied with saitto, parkas, insulated pants and insulated vest© at no cost to the employe®.
g)	Salesmen shall be supplied with uniforms
including three £3] pants, three (3) shirts, a tie. an insulated TCct., c Jacket, a pair of gloves and aprons with th® Company paying 200& of the cost. The uniform shall remain the property ©f the Company and shall be returned to the Company when an employee is laid off or terminates. If the uniform is not returned to the Company, it may deduct th© cost of same from any monies owing to the employee.
f}	11} Salesmen
Salesmen shall receive ones annually on prooir of purchase of approved safety footwear, a safety footwear allowance. Employees who receive the safety footwear allowance arc required to wear safety footwear at all tines while on duty.
(Si) Production
Full time production employees, ©ay on an optional basis, receive once in each calendar year on proof of purchase of approved safety footwear, a safety footwear allowance. Employees who receive the safety footwear allowance arc required to wear safety footwear at all times while on duty, laboratory and wash-up employees shall not be entitled to thi© allowance. The Company will continue to supply, at no cost to the employee, safety toed rubber boots or rubbers in accordance with current policy to those employees who do not elect to receive the safety footwear allowance. Relief employees who perfora wash-up duties will be eligible to receive the safety footwear allowance and the safety-toed rubber boots.
ba a« fellow©:
(iii) The safety footwear allowance will
Effective on February l, 2939 Effective on March SI, 2990 Effective on February l, 1992 Effective on February 2, 2992
@33.90
$<S0.90
$43.00
$30.00
The amount of allowance shall not osceed the actual cost of th© safety footwear.
&RT2CL2 22 - ACCOUNTING TIME
12.01	St fla agreed by the Company that salesmen shall fee
allowed to drive in, unload their returns and settle their accounts as soon o.s their routes ars properly finished.
Page -7-
ARTICLE 13 - SALESMEN'S STARTING TIME
33.01	No employee of the Sales Department shall be
expected on the premises of the Company before 6:00 a.m. as per by-law.
ARTICLE 16 - ROUTE REDUCTION
24.01	In the event of a route being disposed of, the
employee affected shall retain his seniority and shall have the privilege of taking Over the route or lob being worked by the junior san in the Sales Department. Such employee exercising hia seniority rights and bumping into another job in distribution shall receive hi® regular rate.
Salesmen affected in this manner will not be required to qualify as in Section d) . Article 23, covering Route and Job posting, for the purpose of bidding on route vacancies.
ARTICLE 25 - CASES AND EQUIPMENT
25.01	It is agreed that salesmen at the discretion of the
Company can be charged for cases or equipment and the salesman will in turn pass the charge on to the customer provided that arrangements are made that the goods or chattels can be checked in daily and further that if any loss la Incurred by the salesman. Re will be given a fair hearing before m y claim Is made .
ARTICLE IS - SALESMEN'S BONDS
16.01	Wholesale salesmen mhall deposit with the Company
the minimum sum of Two Hundred Dollars £8200.00) as bond or indemnity against loss to the Company which sub shall be returned to the salesman when leaving the oervicc of the Company. The Company agrees eo pay interest yearly on all aonlem held ty them at the rate of bank interest on savings account in effect each January I, provided that the bond i® fully paid up, Payment 0f interest will be made prior to February 15th. of each year.
ARTICLE 17 - SALESMEN NOT TO OIL AND REPAIR TRUCKS
27.01	Salesmen and relletmtn mhal 1 have nothing to do
with greasing, oiling, repairing or washing trucks or any inside work. Salesmen and rellefaen, having under their control equipment with pneumatic tires shall see that this equipment is properly inflated. Each driver is responsible for keeping the interior of the cab of his truck in a clean condition. Each driver is responsible to promptly report to Management and Auto-Pac ar.y accident or damage involving his vehicle.
Page -B-
17.Z<2	Driver-sialesnen and Drivers, when required to fill
out truck repair reports, shall stake sasse out in triplicate with one copy to the Ga.rsge, one for the Coapany and one to b© retained by the employee concerned.
ARTICLE 18 - CHECKING ROUSE 300K
23.01	Every new salesman upon assuming hia duties or
responsibi 1 ities c>n Mo own shall have his route book checked fey an official authorized by the Company, to assure his competency eo keep g true account.
ARTICLE 19 - SUFFICIENT HELP ?0 BE PROVIDED
29.01	re is agreed that the Coapany will provide
sufficient help and trucks during the loading and unloading of wholesale and ice cream salesoen's trucks so as Po avoid unnecessary congestion on both conveyors and loading platforao
ARTICLE 20 - SALESMEN TO ASSIST EACH OTHER
20,01	All nilk shall fe® loaded on trucks and conveyors,
and all ealesraen shall assist each other to load and unload thoir vehicles.
ARTICLE 21 - CREDIT ACCOUNTS
21.01	Credit for accounts oay only b© extended ishsro the
driver has received the prior written authorisation fro® th® Coapany. The Coapany aha 11 not b-s responsible for any credit that It did not authorise.
ARTICLE 22 - ACCIDENT LOSS
22.02	2n th© case of an accident causing aajor loss
through breakage the salesman shall fee given a fair hearing before; © decision is reached. Allowance shall be Bade ©ach day on proper evidence being furnished for all goods.broken, stolen, opillod or soured.
ARTICLE 23 - ROUTE AND JOB POSTING
23. SI	a!	Subject So 0.01 lb) the Coapany agrees
seniority and ability shall bo the deterelnlng factors when r="“® or job vacancies are available. &1X rout® or job vacancies ® a be posted on the Union’s Bulletin Boards "lthln two (a) wording days of the vacancy occurring and shall remain on the Onion e
Page -9'
Bulletin Boards far three (3} working days during whleh time application* for the route or job vacancies shall ba Bade to the Department Hamper. The company will accept / written application, an behalf of an employee absent on vacation, presented by a Union officer, It being agreed and understood such employee shall accept the new position in accordance with 83,01 (fe) if he ia th?	ts $ {u i applicant.
b)	The Company shall post a notice a* to th*
euccessfui applicant to fill tha vacant posltion within five (0) working days following the last day on which application* were submitted to tht Company in accordance witn the notice posted,
The successful tpp)‘,arii shall be placed an the job or route a* soon a* practical or In any case within ten (10) working days of the decision.
c)	Employees Baking application lor / route
or jot vacancy shall have the seniority question In the Company's application font filled lo by the	manager from the
Company's records.
d;	Salesmen making application for / route
vacancy must have served his present route for / period of not less then four (4) months and plant employees who make application for a job posting must have worked in hi* present job for a period of not lees than four («) months.
e)	In the event of a production job being
disposed of, the employee affected shall retain his seniority and have the privilege of taking over tha production job than being worked by the junior man.
ARTICLE 84 - TERH3KATING EMPLOVMEWT
*4.01	Employees wishing to leave tha service of the
Company shall give the conpany two <21 week's notice and in the •vent of the Company wishing to discharge an employee they shell give him two (2! week's notice. The Company agrees to have the book checked within the notiee period at the expiration of which week the employee shall receive nil monisa due to him.
ARTICLE 25 - IN LIEU OF W O WEEX' 8 BOTICE
95.01	In lieu of twe <2) week's notice the sapleyee shall
receive two |2) week'* wage in advance. Proven drinking Of alcoholic beverages while on duty, dishonesty, incompetency, absence without leave, shall be reason for dismissal without not ice.
Zaployees who have not given proper "leaving notice** may have deducted from monies due but mot paid, for wages or vacation pay the amount of which would have been earned by the
Page -10-
employee during the period of notice which should have been given the Coapany.
ARTICLE 26 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
26.01	e]	Holiday schedules shall be arranged by the
Company beginning ir. the oor.th of February. Lists requesting employees preferred vacation dates will be posted by February 1, and will remain posted until March 1. The lists will be taken down on March 2 for review by aanagement. an employee who submits vacation dates following March i, aay only apply for availcible dates.
Seniority of service shall determine choice; of holidays for all employees in each department excluding foremen, so long as operations are not disrupted.
The normal holiday period shall be between May l$jt and October 19th.
b)	After these lists are prepared and before
they are posted, a meeting will be held between the Company and the Union to ratify such lists.
The Company agrees that vacancies that occur after the posting of the holiday lists shall be dealt with by the; nanagssient and the Union.
23.02	a)	All employees with less than one year's
service shall be paid four percent (4SS), or equivalent in days off prior to May 1st.
b)	An employee in the service of the Company
who hoc completed one (2) year's service shall be entitled to two {2) weeks vacation with pay annually.
c5	All scployeea with service of throe {3}
years or more prior to May 1st shall bo entitled to three O) weeks holiday with pay annually.
d)	All ®Eployees with eight (§] years of
service or core prior to M&y 1st shall receive Sour (4) weeks vacation with pay. The fourth (4th{ week of vacation auet be token between October 16th, and April 30th.
o}	All eaployee® with eighteen (13) years of
service* or more prior to May lat shall receive five (S) weeks vacation with pay. The fourth (4th) and fifth (5th) weeks of vocation oust be taken between October 16th, ©nd April 30th.
2)	All eaployee© with twenty-two (22) years
of service or coro prior to May lot shall receive sis (6) weeks
vacation with pay. ?he fourth (4th), fifth (5th) -and sixth (5th) reeks of vacation Bust be tfiJcen between October 16th. and Apr i1 301h.
16.03	Should an employee who i© entitled to holiday
resign or be discharged, said employee (shall receive pay in lieu of holidays at these rates: an oaployoe entitled to two (2) weeks holidays shall be paid four percent (4%) of his total earnings in that vacation year: en employee entitled to three (3) weeks holidays shall be paid mix percent (6S) of his total earnings in that vacation year, an employee entitled to four (4) weeVs holidays shall be paid eight percent (8%) of hia total earning in that vacation year; an employee entitled to five (3) weeks holidays shall be paid ten percent {10%) of his total earnings in that vacation year: am employee- entitled to six (6) weeks holidays shall be paid twelve percent {12%) of his total earnings in that vacation year.
26 04
Employees not covered by the foregoing vacation
provisions shall be paid vacation benefits as provided in the Province of Manitoba Vacations with Pay Act.
26.05	Any temporary 1 &ps«! in employment due to illness or
accident to the employee shall not affect the continuity of •employment far vacation purposes.
2 6.06	I iT a statutory holiday falls In an employee ' s
holiday period, an additional day's holiday will be allowed or a day's pay In lieu thereof. Additional day's holiday shall be mutually agreed upon between the employee-and employer.
28 07	Each reek's holiday' with pay will b-e the regular
weekly base rate. A regular day's pay shall be one-fifth (1/5) of the regular weekly base rate f'or those employees on a five (	)
day schedule, and one-quarter (1/4) of the regular weekly bass rate for those employees on a four (4) day schedule.
26.0B
be en i
Before leaving for their vacation, 'employees shal led to their vacation pay Par the portion of their
vacation period upon which they shall advise the payroll depart he changer his scheduled vicaUot circumstances.
a embarking, The eoployee t three (3) weeks in advance if except in special
25.09	All employees entitled to vacation shall take saise in the current vacation year. Vacation entitlement shall not be carried over to a subsequent vacation year. The vacation year la from hay let to the following April 30th.
26.10	A temporary lapse In employment due to illness ojf accidents to the enployee shall not affect continuity of eRployse.it for purposes of vacation credit*. However, for
Page -12
■purposes of vacation time off and pay, such employee shall be dealt with in accordance with the following scale:
Absent one (3) dsiy to thirteen {13} weeks	200&
Absent thirteen 113} weeks to twenty-six {2©) weeks	?5SJ
Absent twenty-sis: (2©} weeks to thirty-nine {39) weeks SOS Absent thirty-nine {39} weeks to fifty-two (S2} weeks 2SS Absent sore than fifty-two (52} weeks	no vacation
ARTICLE 27 - RES:? PERIOD
27 01	All employees shell be given a fifteen (IS) oinute
rest period aidws.y through each four (4) hour shift for those employees or a five (5) gay schedule, and midway through each five (S) hour shift for Chose employees on e four (4) day schedule
ARTICLE 28
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
23.01
recognized as
The following or any day substituted shell be Statutory Holidays with pay at straight tiae rate:
Wew Year's Day
Good Friday
Victoria Day
Canada Day
Civic Holiday
{First Monday in Aug.?
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
and all other holidays proclaimed by Federal and Provincial Governments.
22.02	The Company will grant each employee having more
than six fS) months seniority a floating holiday. This floating holiday will be arranged by mutual agreement between the Company and the employee, and shall be taken prior to the last pay period in the calendar year. In the event the Federal Government proclaims an additional statutory holiday, this floating holiday will cease.
22.OS	Sf cs Statutory holiday fallo on an esployee’e
regular day off, the employee shall receive an additional day’© pay or an additional day off by mutual agreement in advance of the holiday.
2S.Q4	gssployees sue? work the ssormal e?orking day prior to
and the normal working day following a Statutory Holiday in order to receive payment for the Statutory holiday. Exception to this arill be as follows:
&)	Death in the i&aediate family i.c. wife,
husband, ©other, father, brother, sister, ©other-in-law.
father-in-law, brother-in-law, Elater-in-law, grandparents. grandch11dren or children of the employee.
b)	Absence due to Illness where the eaployee is not receiving payment from the Company, a weekly indemnity plan or Worker's Compensation Hind provided the eaployee has actively worked within fifteen (25) calendar days of the Statutory Holiday.
c)	Permission from the Company.
d)	Jury Duty or subpoenaed witness.
ARTICLE 29 - LEAVE OP ABSENCE
29.01	a)	Employees will be granted necessary leave
cf absence without pay to attend their meetings and conventions. Such leave will be granted then only when it will not interfere with the requirements of the sei-vice and provided the Company is not put to any additional expense.
b)	Eaployeeei will be granted a leave of
absence at the discretion of the Company not to exceed ninety (90) days. Permission shall be obtained in writing. If employees granted such leave return to work later than the agreed date, they shall lore their seniority ranking and their service shall be deemed terminated. However, such leave aay be extended By the company prior to the expiration of leave tor reasons of bona fide sickness..
c)	Leave of absence will not be granted under b) above for the purpose of engaging in work outside the Company's service, except the Company agrees to grant leave of absence without pay and at no cost to the Company for a period of not more than twelve (22) aonthe which ray be renewed at the company's discretion to any employee elected to office a* a Union Officer rho is required by the Union to take tiae off for official Union business.
d)	Such leave will be requested three (3) weeks prior to the appropriate date and will be confirmed by ^he Company no later than one (1) week prior to the requested leave da t e .
ARTICLE 30 - HOURS OF WORK
30	Ol	Hours of work for production employees shall be
forty (40) hours per week, to be worked In five (SJ days or four (4) days. Overtime rates will be paid after eight (3) hours worked In a day on a five (5) day schedule, or after ten (10) hours worked in a day on a four |4) day schedule. Overtime will
Page -24-
bs paid at the rate- of one and one-half {2-2/2} the regular rate. For all hours worked over forty-four (44} hours in o week the rate will be double; tine < 2 sc) the regular rate.
Normal days off for1 Dll employees shall be Saturday and Sunday.
No employee shall be sent hose for the purpose of avoiding overtime due to accumulated hours previously worked in that week.
30.02	Work perforaed on regular scheduled day© off shall be paid at the rata; of time and one-half (2-2/2) for all employees.
30.03	An eziployee called in to work on a Statutory Holiday shall be guaranteed not less than six (®) hours work at overtime rates of pay.
30.04	Ho plant employee shall be required to work more than five (5) hours without a seal break of thirty (30) minutes durst ion.
20.05	Employees required to work overtime shell not bo required to punch out for seal breaks after a regular day’s work.
30.05	‘	All production employees required to work two (2)
unscheduled hours beyond his regular scheduled shift shall be provided with a meal or given s> seal allowance of six dollars and fifty cents ($6.50). The seal allowance will be included in the employee’s regular pay cheque. Effective February 2, 2992; the semi allowance will be increased to seven dollars ($7.00).
ARTICLE 32 - WAGES
31.01
Distribution Employees
Wholesale Route Spareaen/Holiday Men Specie! Trucks;
See Cream Route
E3.02	All new salesmen shall receive up to four (4)
weeks' training and shall be paid et a rat© of fifty dollar© {$30.00} belov? the base rate per week while learning.
Zrasnediately on assuming responsibility of his own or any route, he shall be paid the base rate wage.
Sourly Base Rate Effective March 22. 1990
24.20
Hourly Base Rate Effective February S, 2991
26.78
Sourly Base Rate Effective February 2, 2992
IS.30
Page -23-
31.03
Production Employees Group "A"
Milk and Cream Receiver Pas teurizer
Pure-Pak Filler Operator Pouch-Pak Filler Operator Portion Pak Operator Dispenser Operator (Bag N Ice Cream Department Storage Dept. SMpping/ReceivJng Automot ive Mechanic Driver/Shuntman Labratcry
Genera] Plant Relief Man Night Washup
Group "B”	14.40	IS.00	35.60
Trans Canada Freezer Warehouseman I
Group "C'	34.36	14.76	15.36
General Plant Help
33 04 Inexperienced dairy help shall be paid at the hourly base rate leas one dollar, twenty - if ive cents ($1.25) for the first twenty (20! working (lays. Thereafter, they shall be paid the rete of pay of the classification then being worked as outlined In thin Agreement.
31	05	Retroactivity
Retroactive pay will be paid to all employees on the payroll on March 11, 1990 at the rate of fifty cents ($0.90) per hour for all hours worked and paid by the Company between January 28, 3990 and March 10, 1990. Retroactive pay will be paid after the signing of the collective agreement.
ARTICLE 32	- CENERAL PROVISIONS
32	01	Higher Classification - Any employee who is
assigned Po relieve in a higher classification than hie own shall
Hourly Base Rate St feet ive March 11, 2990
Hourly Base Rate Effective
February 3 , 1991
Hourly Base Rite Eftective February t, 1992
14.40
15.0 0
15.60
receive the rate of such elassification from the first full day of work in such classification.
32. 02	Tool Allowance - In addition to the above weekly-
rates, mechanics shaill receive a yearly tool allowance of one hundred and sixty dollars ($160.00) to be paid July 31, 2990.
32.03	Shift Premium - All employees who work the ©ajor portion of their assigned shifts, four (4) hours or sore, or five 15) hours or more, depending on the length of the assigned shift, between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and S: 00 a. at shall receive seventy cents ($0.70) per hour over and above the regular rate of pay for all hours worked on such shifts.
32.04	Ice Creaa Freezer Premium - Any employee who spends the majority of his working time actually in the ice cress freezer shall receive a special premium of twenty dollars ($20.00) per week.
32.05	Sunday Premium - Shippers and receivers scheduled to wotx on Sunday shell receive a premium of ninety cents {-@0) per hour for all hours worked on Sunday.
32.05	Discrimination - The. Manitoba Human Righto Act prohibits discrimination because of a person's race, nationality, religion, colour, ©ex, age, ethnic/nationsl origin, marital statue, source of income and political belief.
32.07	Mechanics Premium - An adjustment of twenty
dollars (@20.00) per week will be payable to those automotive Esechanicc having journeymen paper© or five (5) years or sore garage mechanical service at the dairy.
32.03	Circling of Specials - Salesmen will be required to
circle special items.
32.05	Route Consol Ida t ion - &fhere two or more routes are consolidated the drivers affected will be given the choice of preferred route on the basis of seniority and ability to do the work.
32.2$	Employees will fe® paid on a bi-weekly basis.
ARTICLE 33 - HOSPITALIZATION AND SICK BENEFITS
33.02	(i)	It is ©greed that the Company assume
one-half the cost of the Manitoba Hospital Service Plan.^and arse-bel? the cost of the Manitoba Health Service "B.C.S.* Plan until Medicare becomes effective. The Company shall then contribute Four Dollars 5 Ninety-two cents ($4.92) per aonth
Page -17
per «,!?;oyej on the individual p 5 o n and Eisven Collars i Forty-seven cents ($11.47) per aor, th per employee on the faally plan.
(11)	Weekly Indemnity
The Coapany provides an insured weekly indsan.it/ benefit at no premia® cost po the snployees which effective February 1, 19*9 will provide a weekly benefit et 66-2/35 of the employees base rate up to a »axiaun of three hundred and twenty-five dollars (S325 00). E f f ective April 1,	1990. the aaxiaua will be
Increased to three hundred and Sseventy—five dollars (S37S.OO). Effective February 1,	!99i, the maxliua will be increased to
three hundred and eighty-fi v-s dollars ($385.00). Effective February 1,	1992, the aaxlaua will be increased tc three hundred
and ninety-five dollars (5395.00). The Company agrees to pay Pull wages for the first, second and third scheduled working day off for sickness provided the employee establishes o clais for sick benefits.
An employee of? work at the effective dates would not be eligible for the increased benefit until he has returned to work and decors eligible for a new claim under the tersa of the plan.
(iii) Dental
The Company provides an insured Company administered dental Plan through its carrier with the Company paying jeventy-f ive percent (7551 of the presius cost with the employee paying twenty-five percent (.2 515) of the premium cont of the Dental Pian. Effective February 1, 1939, benefits will be paid on 1988 H.D.A. Fee Schedule. Effective April 1, 1990, benefit# will be paid on 1989 H.D.A. Pee Schedule. Effective February 1,	19 9 1, benefit. will
be paid on 1990 M.D.A. lee Schedule. Effective February 1, 1992, benefits will i>e paid on 1991 M.D.A. Fee Schedule.
Coverage for intermediate procedure* ilm included in the present Dentil Plan. This coverage is on a fifty percent (50*)
co-insurance b.ssls. The maximum dental benefit payable In M Y one (l) year period for all dental services rendered under th« plan is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) par person.
(iv)	Lif« Insurance
Effective February 2,	1 9 8 9, the Company will pay the full premium
cost to provide a benefit of eight thousand dollar* ($8,000.00} lite insurance for each full-time employee who has completed ths probation period. Effective February 1,	199!, the Company will
pay the full preeiua cost to provide & benefit of ten thousand dollars {$10,000.00) life insurance for each full-time employ®* who has completed the probation period. The insurance will cease on terain.aMon or retirement in accordance with the rules suid regulations of the policy,
Page -JS
\v)	long Ter® ©inability
Effective May a, 2590, the Company will arrange for an Long Tern Disability benefit through its insurance carrier. The benefit will be based on sixty percent (SOS} of the ©sployee'a base hate up to a Esxlaum of Si,250.00 per month subject to the terms and conditions of the plan. The saxiaua benefit period is twer.ty-fcur months following a qualifying disability period of fifty-two (52} weexs of continuous disability. Benefits received by on employee under the Canada Pension Plan only, shall not h® an off-oat under this plan, however other incose shall be an off-set. Benefits shall cease at the earlier of twenty-four months or age sixty-five. The premium cost will be shared with the Company and employees each paying fifty {50%} percent.
ARTICLE 3 G - GENERAL
3<s.o:i	JJo employee shall be asked or persisted to ask© a
written or verbal agreement which aay conflict with this
Agreement .
ARTICLE 35 - PENSION PLAN
35.01	The Company provides a pension benefit as set ©ut
in Appendix “A" which is attached hereto and fora© part of this collective agreement.
ARTICLE 3S - RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES
SG.DI	The Ceapany agrees that all evicting privileges and
conditions now enjoyed by the employees shell not be disturbed and shall continue as heretofore.
Any employee who at the tioe of the signing of this Agreement is receiving a higher rate than that specified in the wage seals shall not have his wage reduced.
ARTICLE 37 - BEREAVEMENT
37.01	In the ©vent of a death in the immediate family,
i-O., husband, wife, mother, father, sister, brother, sot her-in-law , father-in-low. grandparents, or children of an employee covered in this Agreement , the Company agrees to grant tap to three (3) days’ leave of absence with full pay tor Justifiable absence.
Tb& Company will grant o one (1} day 2save of absence with payment for working time lost resulting from an eoployee acting c, s‘n pallbearer or because of the death of brother-in-law,
D1stsr-in-law , or grandchildren.
Page -IS-
ARTICLE 38 - JURY PAY
38 Ci	(a)	The Company rill, on receiving from an
employee a certificate from a proper officer of the Court certifying that the said employee has been required to report lor jury duty for a number of days to be stated in the sane certificate and that the said «mployee has received a cub to be stated In the certificate, pay to the employee the difference between the sum of money stated in the certificate and the aua the employee would have received had he worked during the period referred to in the certificate.
(b)	Employees required to do jury duty on days
off:	Payment for same shall accrue to the employees.
(c)	An employee who has been subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid the difference between the witness fees and his regular dally rate.
ARTICLE 39 - GENDER
39.Cl	In this Agreement whenever the masculine gender is
■used it shall be construed to be the masculine gender or the feminine as ?he context requires.
ARTICLE 40 - PERSONAL INFORMATION
40.01	It is the responsibility of each employee to notify
the Company of M y change in his home address and mailing address if different from his home address, telephone number, marital status, number of dependents or other vital statistics. Failure to keep the Company informed of the abcve matters rill release the Company of any responsibility for failure to comply with any part of this Agreement where such information is necessary in order to comply.
ARTICLE 41 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
41. Cl	It is understood and agreed that the parties to
Phis Agreement are governed by the provisions of Section 89(2) of the Manitoba Labour Relations Act.
The Company agrees not to ask or expect s member of the Union to cron® legally established picket lines. However, if • strike occurs which effects the operations of the Company, the Onion and the Company shall at once call a meeting to discuss the operation of this clause.
Page -20'
ARTICLE -32 - SEVERANCE PAY
-32 02	A regular full fine employee with five or sort?
years of continuous service who is pereanently laid off and who Is net subject Po recall shall receive severance pay based on one (2) weeks pay For each complete year of continuous service up to a aaxioua of twenty (20} weeks pay.
ARTICLE S3 - BUSINESS AGENT VISITS
63.0:	Duly authorized full tisse representatives of the
Union shell be entitled to visit the plant for the purpose of eeiT.mun.lcot ing with bargaining unit employees. The Representative shall notify the Plant Manager in advance, to arrange for his visit, which shell taike glace at a time and place agreeable with the Plant Manager so as not to disrupt the operation of the workplace. The Representative shall not meet with sore than one employee at a time, except with the express permission of the Plant Manager or Rim designate.
ARTICLE $4 - NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
3-3.01	The Company will recognize up to three (3}
bargaining unit employees to negotiate the renewal of this agreement. Employees on the negotiating coaoittee shall suffer no loss in pay for the time spent during their regular scheduled hours of work in attendance at negotiating meetings with KTanagenont. Such payoent shall be for a a&xlsUB of eis (S) days
ARTICLE CS - DURATION 0? AGREEMENT
35.02	Agreement to become effective March 11, 2S9G, and
expire January 31, 29‘J3, and thereafter froa year to year tsnlesc written notice of intent to amend or tereinate the Agreement is
Page -22
given by cither party to the ether party, not more than sixty (601 days and not Jess than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of any yearly period. Upon receipt of the Onion's and Company's amendments, the Coapany shall within five (5) days of receipt of said amendments commence collective bargaining with a view to the renewal or revision of this Agreement or conclusion of a new Collective Labour Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES hereto have caused Agreement to be duly executed this <2w> ;££	, day of
2990 .
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
PENS Z DW PLAN
Page -22
APPENDIX "A"
2.01	Benefito for seabers of the Crown Life plan will be pur on a paid up status as of January 32, 2982, and will be payable at the time of retirement in accordance with the terse of that plan.
2.02	Effective February 2, 2982, the Company will implement a future service gay plan, non-contributory, which will provide to an employee at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of five dollars ($5.00) per month per years of future credited service.
1.03	Effective February 2, 2963, the Company will amend the future service pay Plan, non-contributory, Po provide employes'; at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of ten dollars ($20.00) per month per year of future credited service from February 1, 2983.
a.O'C	Effective February 2, 1985, the Company will amend
the future service pay plan, non-contributory, to provide employers at the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) c service related pension benefit of thirteen dollars ($13.00) per aonth per year of future credited service Prom February 1,	29S5.
i.05	Effective February 2, 1986, the Company will amend
the future service pay plan, non-contributory, Po provide employees at the mandatory retireoent age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of fifteen dollars ($25.00) per aonth pcr year of future credited service from February 1, 15E6.
S.DS	Effective February 2, 2987, the Company mill amend
the future service pay pian. non-contributory, to provide employees at the mandatory retirement age of cixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of seventeen dollars ($17.00) per sonth per year of future credited service from February j, 2987.
2.07	Effectls’© February 2, 1998, the Company will amend
the future service pav plan, non-contributory, to provide employees ct the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (55) a servics related pension benefit of nineteen dollars ($29.00) per month per year of future credited service from February 2, 2886.
2.0$	Effective February 2, 2989, tho Company will csend
the future service pay plan, non-contributory, to provide employee’s at the mandatory retirement age of cixty-fivs (65) a service related pension benefit of twenty-one dollars ($21.00) per oonth PeP year of future credited oervlce from February 2969 .
Pag® -23-
1.09	Effective February 1, £990, th® Coapany will amend
the future service pay plan, non-contributory, to provide employees et the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of twenty-four dollar* ($24.00) per esonth per year of future credited service froa February 1,
1990	.
1.20	Effective February 1, 1991, the Coapany will amend
th® future service pay plan, non-contributory. to provide employees at eh@sandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of twenty-six dollars ($26.00) per month per year of future credited service Prom February 1,
1991	.
1.25	Effective February 2, 1932, the Coapany will aaend
the future service pay plan, non-contributory, to provide employees at the aandatory retirement age of sixty-five (65) a service related pension benefit of twenty-eight dollars ($23.00) per month per ye*r of future credited service from February 1, 1992 .
Beatrice Foods Inc.
K&csrn Dairies - Winnipeg Division ?„0. Sox 40, Se. Boniface cJir.nioeg, Manitoba R2K 33£
Attention:	Mr
iSecrge Wakefield
Dear Mr, Wakefield:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Da:	Days Off
This will confirm the agrement by the Onion in it!; Letter of Understanding dated July 22, 1S89 which was agreed W during the recently concluded negotiations for the Modern Dairies - Winnipeg Agreement which expires on January 31, 1253 ’to the effect that:
Notwithstanding Article 30.01, the Company can cor.tinua to schedule days off for shippers and receivers who work on weekends as at present.
The Company can continue to schedule employees at Modern Dairies - Winnipeg who are currently working their forty (40) hours in a tour (4) day week.
agreed ok behalf of the union
April 2C, 199Q
Retail, Wholesale & Departmen' 311 ~ 570 Portage Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 0G4
Stare Union
Attention: Mr Dave Hisco Dear Mr Eisco:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT Re: Special Allowance
Each driver will be paid the sure, which is ret out in Appendix 1. as a special all©v?->ee. This special allowance rill not be included in my calculation for any other benefit, allowance, premium, overtime payment or compensation of m y form.
This special allowance rill be continued an an individual basis for each driver, listed in Appendix 1, so long as he is actively employed as s driver in the distribution group on a continuous basis. This special allowance will cease if tho employee is transferred outside of the distribution group or accepts a posting outside of tho distribution group.
This special allowance will be paid far each reek the driver works and is paid by the Company. This will include vacation weeks and Statutory Holidays under the Collective. Agreement. For reeks in which an employee receives less than his regular week's pay froc the company, except where this is caused by a Statutory Holiday in that week, the special allowance will be prorated accordingly.
Drivers will be paid for overtime at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) the bare rate for all hours in excess of forty (AO) hours worked per real, for all hours in excess of forty-four (44) hours worked in a week, overtime rill be paid Bt the rate of two (2) tines the bass rate. In
determining the normal work week an unpaid personal t----
allowance of w o and one-half (2-2/2) hours will be included.
EMPLOYEE Berube, Maurice Black, Georgs Blais, Eugene Cstte, Dennis Charbonnejnu, Emery Clague, Brent Crompton, Noil Fortin, Steve Gagnon, Say Gibbons, Kenneth Suyghs, Alfred Johnson, Raymond Krebs, Ronald Kunts, Eduard Labossiera, Patrick flanness, Frederick
fallen, Mike Mitenko, Raymond Morrisey, Peter Philder, Bert Hausoff, Va.lsrik Pelletier, Joseph Sampson, Sian Shouronab, Paul Straub, Willies Vandersaln, George Wilton, Dennis
MODERN DAIRIES • WINNIPEG SPECIAL ALLOWANCE
8/BY-WEEKLY 102.00
150.00
224.00
184.00
268.00
172.00
140.00
172.00
206.00 122.00 160.00 160.00
174.00
150.00
180.00 202.00
38.00
214.00
136.00
160.00
158.00
291.50
56.00
103.50
157.50
280.00 196.00
jS/VEEX
51.00
90.00 212.00
92.00 134.00
86.00
70.00
86.00
203.00 61.00 80.00 §0.00
37.00
75.00
90.00 101.00
49.00 107.00
66.00 SO. 00
70.00
95.75
23.00
95.75
78.75
90.00 98 00
3
Sunct fast Ik
Hoar" C»' -ei P C Boi «0 Si BoiiiKt
April 20, 1990	w s-
1	».-r pff U,rv,l06i W* KU
iX* ?J3 M4< fji ?W ?a-4?35
Retail, Wholesale i Department Store Union 311 - 570 Portage Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C OG4
Attention: Hr Dave Hisco
Dear Mr Bisco:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This will reconfirm the changes to the Weekly Indemnity Plan which the Company implemented in 1985 eo the effect that;
The Company rill amend the plan effective Hay 1.
1985, to provide that weekly indemnity benefits rill be payable from the insurance carrier from the first scheduled work day absent due to non-compensable accident or the fourth scheduled work day absent due to sickness to the end of the four (A) weeks from the original date of absence. Provided on employee continues to qualify he could then go on U-I-C- for fifteen (15) weeks followed by a further thirty-three (33) weeks on weekly indemnity in accordance with the terms of the plan. Effective July 1* 1987, if an employee has exhausted his U.I.C. indemnity benefit, tho Company rill allow hi. to receive weekly indemnity benefits under the Company plan in keeping with the terms of the plan.
Tours truly,
Beatrice Poods Inc.
Modem Dairies - Winnipeg Division
George Wakefield General Manager
3
DssirKe fesSs l«.
Moflt'n Oj.r^i Ainiipet 0 »i*cn PO Bo. <0 Si Sori!«c?
733 5i JW*pn St<eei B.nn.fwj Marmots ft?" 3SJ t2&a. 323 Mi
April 20, 1990	fat i2Wr zji-chs
Retail, Wholesale & Department Store Union 311 - 570 Portage Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba F.3C OQA
Attention:	Mr Dave Hisco
Dear Mr Hisco:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This rill reconfirm the undertaking that the Company agreed to during the recently concluded negotiations for eke renewal of the Modem Dairies - Winnipeg agreement, which ©spires on January 31, 1993, eo the effect that:
When the Company intends to franchise a routs, the affected employes ( i.s. - the driver on tfcs route affected, or the junior employee if a bump is involved) rill be given first consideration.
Yours truly,
Beatrice 7oods Inc.
Modern Dairies - Winnipeg Division
George Wakefield Goneral Manager
©free
COLLECTIVE AGREEMEN*
BETWEEN	BEATRICE FOODS INC.,
MODERN DAIRIES - WINNIPEG DIVISION (hereinafter referred to as the 'Company")
AH3	THE RETAIL. WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION
AFL-CIC. CLC. AND ITS LOCAL 755 RETAIL, WHOLESALE DAIRY WORKERS UNION (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
PREAMBLE
The Dr.Ion recognizes the Company1 s need for part-time employees ir. addition Po seasonal employees. The Company agrees that the number of part-time employees (exclusive of seasonal employees) working at any one time will not exceed 15* of the full time staff in the respective full time group, except In cases of emergency or other circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the Company. The Company will advise the Union of the circumstances or emergency.
All matters relating to regular part-time, or casual employees including their rages, hours and working conditions shall be as set out In this document.
ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS
Full t ime Regular part-time Casual part-time Seasonal
-	normally works 40 hours per week on ® regularly scheduled basis
-	normally works 24 hours or less per week on a regularly scheduled basis.
-	an employee hired on an irregular. as required basis throughout the year.
-	an employee hired to work between April IS to September 1 .
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01
excluslve the scope
The Company recognizes the Union me the mole and bargaining agent of all employees of the Company within Of this Agreement.
Page 2
ARTICLE 3 - SCOPS
$.Oi	a}	The scope of this Letts? of Agreement
ohal.1 cover all part-tioe employees of the Company save and except Main Office Staff, Stationary Engineers, Firemen, Foresen and those above the rank of Foremen.
b)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary,
only those natters which are mpeciSicelly set out as such, ©ball apply to seasonal employees
ARTICLE <3- &ANAGEMEN? CONTROL
0.02	Responsibility for planning, directing and
controlling the business of the Coapany shall rest exclusively with Management, provided that these functions are exercised in a canner that will net conflict with the terms and conditions cf this Agreement. The Coapany retains all sanageoent rights except os specific&ily sodified elsewhere in this Agreement.
£.02	A probationary employee say be discharged without
csuse end at the sole discretion of the Employer. Such employee does not have recourse to the grievance and arbitration sections of this Agreement. The probationary period ©hall be ninety (90} shifts worked.
ARTICLE 3 - SJNIOB SiEAiRITY
3.02	a)	Part-tide employees including seasonal
employees oust join the Union within thirty (30} days of being hired.
b)	The Company agrees upon a compulsory
check-off of Onion dues upon all employees who fall within the bargaining ^nit ©s certified by the Manitoba Labour Relations Beard and shall transmit the amount so deducted to the Onion upon authorisation by the employee prior to the 25th day of each month.
£}	Subject to the Labour Relation© Act S.M,
2S31,c L20 ©76 (1/ (a), £b), (e), ©76(3).
ARTICLE G - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
S.Gi	The grievance procedure set out in the full time
agreement will be followed.
article: ? - arbitration
2.32	^he procedure set out in the full tine agreement
will bs followed.
SENIORITY
8 03
their group recent date
Part-time employees will accumulate seniority within based on the number of hours worked since their most of hire.
A seasonal employee who is transferred to regular part-time status will be credited with the number of hours worked since him last date of hire, for seniority purposes within that group.
Employees shall be given a fifteen (15) minute rest period midway through each four (4) hour shift.
ARTICLE 9 - PULL TIME VACANCIES.
S.01	The company will advise employees when It has a
permanent full time vacancy which it wishes to fill ao that interested employees may make application for the position. The Company will give consideration to applications received from part-time employees before considering outside applicants.
ARTICLE 10 - WAGES 10.01
Regular Pare-time) Casual Employees )
Hourly Base Rate Effective March 11 1990
1st year $10.00 2nd year *10.25 3rd year $10.50
10.02
Seasonal Employees (April 13 tc September 1)
lat Yr. o? Employment 2nd Yr. of Employment 3rd Vr. or sore
Effect ive Mar il.1990 $8.00 a. 25 a. so
10.03	Shift Premium - Employee® who work the major
portion of their assigned shifts, four (41 hours or acre, or five (5) hours or more, depending on the length of the assigned shift, between the hours of 6:00 p.a. and 8:00 a.s shall receive seventy cents ($0,705 per hour over and above the regular rate of pay for all hours worked on such shifts.
10.04	Ice Cream freezer Premium - An employee rho spends
the majority of his working time actually in the ice cream freezer shall receive a special premium Of twenty dollars (SIC CC; per week prorated for the hours worked
Page 6
ARTICLE 11 - GENDER
55 Oa	In tMn Agreement whenever the aaoeuline gands? So
used It ehell be construed to be she sascuiine gender or the ffeoinine as the contest requires,
ARTICLE 33 - PERSONAL INFORMATION
3.£.01	It to the reojpohoiMlity of each employee eo notify
the Coapar.y of any <h8,n?i in hia hose address *•: asillng addreen If? different froa his hose address, telephone nuaber, earita) ototus, nuaber of dependent* or other vita] s'lusllei Failure to Itecp the Conpany informed of the above setters will roltsse ths Company of any responsibility far failure to coaply with any pert of this Agro^aont where such indorsation la necessary in order 4o comply.
ARTICLE 13 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
33.05	It lo understood and agreed Phot the parties to
thin Agreement sr* govarnsd by the provisions of Section W of tho Manitoba Labour Relations Act.
AOTXCL2 24 - DURATION DP AGREEMENT
ac.OS	Agretaant to become effective March 11, 5590, and
empire January 31, 1893, and thtrsafter iroa year to year unless written notice of intent to amend or terainote the Agr'taent lo given by either psi-ty to the other party, not acre than sixty (50) days and not lees than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration Df any yearly period. Upon receipt of the Union'o and Coaptny'a »Bendaeni:c, the Company shall within five (5) days of receipt of aaid eae-ndaenta eoMsnee collective bargaining with & view Po the renewal or revision of this ApreeatM or ccnflvoicn of a new Collective Labour Agreeaent.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PART 3 ES he rc^h^t caused OttfB
Agreaaont eo be duly executed thio 5590.
day of
!?08 7.HE COMPANY
FOB THE UNION