THIi	made in duplicate this
day of
A. D., -*993
BETWEEN:
DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
A Corporation with its HEAD OFFICE in the Province of Saskatchewan.
hereinafter called the EMPLOYER Of the FIRST PART
AND:
DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS
LOCAL UNION NO. 834, Of
REGINA, Saskatchewan,
affilated with THE INTERNATIONAL
BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS, CHAUFFEURS
WAREHOUSEMEN AND HELPERS OF AMERICA.
hereinafter called the UNION of the SECOND PART
THE PARTIES HERETO MUTUALLY AGREE;
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	It is the intent and purpose of this Agreement that the Employer and the Union co-operate to obtain full and unrestricted production and distribution of the Employer's products; to maintain harmonious relationship between the Employer and its Employees and to provide a method of settling any differences or grievances which may from time to time arise, and to set forth rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment. New Employees when being hired will be informed by Management of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 2 ~ RECOGNITION AND SCOPE
2.01	The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive Bargaining Agency for all its Employees at Regina, Saskatchewan, excluding the Manager, Office Manager, Manager's Secretary, Accountant, Assistant Accountant, Bookkeeper, Plant Superintendent, Chief Engineer, City and Country Wholesale Salesmen, Manager Cold Storage Warehouse and Supervisor Egg and Poultry Department, Head Office Staff, Payroll Clerk and One Management Trainee..
M 2* 1S32
-PAGE-1
00394 (03)
02	(a) Union members shall elect a Shop Steward in each
Department whose name, or change thereof, shall be promptly given to the Employer's Manager, at Regina, in writing by the Secretary of the Union. The Shop Steward must have Two (2) years of service with the Employer before he shall be elected.
(b)	Union Members shall, through the Shop Stewards, have the right to discuss, at any suitable time, any grievance with the proper Employer's official. The Business Agent of the Union shall at all times have the right to take up grievances and disputes after they have been presented to the Employer in writing.
(c)	Deductions shall not be made from the wages of Shop Stewards for time actually spent on the settlement of disputes and grievances.
ARTICLE 3 ~ UNION SECURITY
3.01	Every	who is now or here after becomes a Momhor of
the Union, shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his employment and every new Employee who employment commences hereafter shall, within Thirty (30) days after commencement of his employment, apply-for and maintain membership in the Union as a condition of his employment.
3.02	No person who is not a Member of the Union shall work at any job or occupation which is within the Bargaining Unit represented by the Union, as described in this Agreement, except in the case of emergency, and then only until a Member of the Union can be placed on the j ob.
ARTICLE 4 ~ CHECK OFF
4.01	Upon the request of the Employee and upon the request of the Union, both in writing, the Employer shall deduct from the first pay of each month out of the wages due to such Employee his monthly Union Dues and Assessments, and pay the same to the person designated by the Union to receive them. The Employer further agrees, upon the request of the Union and the Employee, to deduct Initiation Fees and to remit the same to the designated official of the Union. The amounts so collected shall be remitted each month in one payment within a reasonable time after collection.
ARTICLE 5 ~ GENDER
5.01	Reference to Employee or Employees or to the word "he11 or any reference to anyone contained within the Bargaining Unit of this Agreement shall be understood to mean either male or female as the context may require.
-PAGE-Z
TICLE 6
MANAGEMENT
6.01	The Union recognizes the sole right of the Employer to manage the Plant and direct the work of the Employees, including the right to hire, promote, demote, suspend, discharge for cause, lay off, assign to jobs and shifts, to transfer Employees from Department to Department, increase or decrease working forces, determine products to be handled p, processed or manufactured, the schedule of production and the methods of processing, the amount of production and the handling of the same. The Employer shall not discriminate against present and prospective Employees whether or not they are members of the Union. This clause shall not be used for the purpose of avoiding the effects of other provisions of this Agreement;.
ARTICLE 7 ~ SENIORITY
7.01	(a) A list showing seniority of service of permanent
Empl-Qi«»®« sb-aLL be compiled by the Employer and kept posted on a Notice Board; the same shall be revised every Six months and verified by the Shop Stewards before posting. Seniority with the Employer shall start from the time the Employee is first employed by the Employer. Seniority of service shall be considered broken when an Employee -
(i)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the Employer or is discharged for cause.
(ii)	Failure to report for duty after being laid off or to give satisfactory reason for not doing so promptly after notification.
(b)	In the event of a reduction of staff and in rehiring of Employees, seniority shall apply, providing such Employee is then capable of handling the job in the opinion of the Manager, subject to recourse by grievance procedure,
(i)	When an Employee holding a bid job is due to be laid 'off due to seniority - the job shall be posted. If the job cannot be filled from the applications of the present staff then that Employee will not be laid off but another Employee, even though he may have greater seniority, may be laid off instead.
(c)	(i) The Company will attempt to contact the Employee due to be recalled, and if unable to do so will notify the Union and notify the Employee (s) by registered mail addressed to the last known address, The Employee(s) concerned shall notify the Company and the Union that they shall return to work within five (5) working days of the date of mailing notification. Failure of the Employee(s) to reply to recall notice shall cause all rights to recall and to
-PAGE-3
leniority to be forfeited.
(ii)	It is agreed that in order for an Employee to benefit from the above clause (i) , he shall leave his address with the Company and the Union and notify the Company of any changes of address thereafter.
7.02	(a) Seniority of an Employee shall be established from the date an employee last enters the service of the Bargaining Unit.
(b)	New Employees shall be on probation for one hundred and twenty (120) worked days during which time they may be terminated, if in the opinion of the Company they are unsuitable or unsatisfactory. For the first 30 (thirty) worked days such terminations shall not be subject to the Grievance Procedure. The decision to terminate shall be at tfere. •iL.sfcrstjcm of the Company, which shall be exercised reasonably.
(c)	An Employee who is laid off because of shortage of work and has not completed his probationary period shall complete that portion of his probationary period if recalled to work.
(d)	Upon completion- of the probationary period the Employee shall be placed on Permanent Staff.
(e)	During the probation period outlined in (i) above, such new Employees may be laid off without reference to seniority and the Employer shall be under no obligation to rehire the said Employee.
(f)	At the end of the one hundred and twenty (120) worked days, such new Employee shall be entitled to full benefits of permanent staff members. All other hirings shall be considered temporary and paid as such, with the proviso that such Employee's status shall be reviewed at the end of Six months except where he has taken over a year-round job in the meantime. Pay increases provided for in this Agreement shall be based on the anniversary date of hiring.
7.03	VACATION RELIEF
(i)	Employees hired for Vacation Relief during the period April 15th to September 1st shall not acquire Seniority rights. The term of such employment not to exceed one hundred and thirty-five (135) calendar days in any one period unless the parties mutually agree in writing to an extension.
(ii)	The Employer shall advise the Union of the name(s) of the Employees hired for Vacation Relief.
(iii)	Should an Employee who is first hired for Vacation Relief succeed in being subsequently designated as a probationary
-PAGE-4
iployee, then such Employee, subject to (a) above, will be required €o commence a sixty (60)‘‘»otfLduJacfyt> -prdua1*c.Lonary	upon no
longer being designated as Vacation Relief. Upon becoming a Permanent Employee, he will be credited with his accumulated time worked from the date he last commenced working as a Vacation Relief Employee.
ARTICLE 8 ~ TRANSFERS. POSTINGS & VACANCIES
8.01	(i) Staff vacancies and new positions shall be posted on the. notice boards, to be provided by the Employer, in conspicuous places in the plant, and permanent appointment to the vacancy listed shall not be made until three (3) working days after the said posting. The Shop Steward shall be notified, before appointment is made, of the Employer's decision. In each case of a job posting resulting in a second vacancy, this second vacancy will be filled at Management's discretion. The effect of this statement is that every other job vacancy is posted when a succession of vacancies occur because of an initial vacancy being filled.
(ii)	Vacancies and new jobs within the Bargaining Unit shall be posted to give Employees with seniority ample time to apply for such vacancies. Jobs shall be posted within one (1) week of the vacancy occuring and the posting shall remain up for a minimum-of seventy-two (72) hours.
(iii)	Promotion within the Bargaining Unit shall be based on seniority and ability. Ability being sufficient, seniority shall prevail. Appointments to supervisory positions shall be made in accordance with Employer regulations.
8.02	Employees transferring from one Department to another shall do so on the understanding that while seniority with the Employer is retained, such seniority is not carried into the new Department insofar as choice of holidays for the first year in the Department is concerned. If, however, the Employee has been transferred to a Department by the Employer after the holiday list for the year has been approved, the Employee's holiday period shall not be changed unless otherwise mutually agreed upon.
8.03	Employees will be restricted to a maximum of two (2) successful bids within a period of one year, except where Management and the Union mutually agree otherwise. When this bidding restriction forces the hiring of a new Employee to fill a vacancy then the "two (2) successful bids" rule will be waived to allow current employees a third bid opportunity when a bracket rated vacancy is involved.
-PAGE-5
8.04	Senior Employees shall have the right to preferential work in their classification over junior Employees.
8.05	The Employer may introduce a system of on the job training so that Employees may have the opportunity to receive training and qualify for promotion or transfer in the event of a vacancy arising. Accordingly, Employees may be allowed regular opportunities to learn the work of higher or equal positions during regular working hours by working together with senior Employees for temporary periods, without affecting the salary or pay of the Employees concerned. Except where the Union and the Employer have jointly agreed to an Affirmative Action Plan to redress inequities, such opportunities for training shall be allocated according to seniority provisions of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 9 ~ WAGES
9.01	Attached to this Agreement there shall be Schedule "A", and Schedule "Bn covering the wages etc., of the Employees included under the provisions of this Agreement.
Schedule "A" shall cover all Employees other than those covered under Schedule MB" - Recognized Departmental Job Titles and Special Job Titles.
Schedule "B" shall cover all Recognized Departmental Job Titles and Special Job Titles as identified under the Classification System.
9.02	A special rate of pay, other than that listed in the schedules hereto, may be arranged by the Employer1 s Manager and the Shop Stewards, for any Employee who because of disability is unable to continue in his regular position, but whose services can be used in another capacity on the staff.
ARTICLE 10 - CLASSIFICATIONS
10.01	For the purpose of recognizing positions of leadership and resonsibility, and of establishing a uniform operating structure throughout all of the Company's plants, certain Departments and jobs will be identified under a Classifications System.
Attached to and forming part of this Agreement is a Schedule "B" outlining the recognized Departments, Departmental Job Titles and Special Job Titles.
10.02	Holders of Recognized Job Titles or Special Job Titles must meet the Minimum Qualifications as outlined for each position and perform in that position for at last 60% of his normal working time.
10.03	In order to have a recognized Department Head there shall be
-PAGE-6
minimum of four (4) Employees, including the Department Head, working in the involved Department.
In order to have a recognized Assistant Department Head there shall be a minimum of seven (7) Employees, including the Department Head, working in the involved Department.
10.04	For Classification purposes, plants will be classified in one of two categories based on volume and distribution. These categories will be entitled:
"A” PLANTS "B" PLANTS
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	(a) PLANT EMPLOYEES AND TRUCK DRIVERS
Five (5) Days, Forty (40) Hours per week, Eight (8) Hours per day.
All Plant Employees shall be entitled to Two (2) consecutive days off within each week. It is agreed that if a Four (4) Day Work Week, Ten (10) Hours per day can be arranged, then consideration shall be given provided it is agreeable to both parties. Except where the Employer has obtained the written consent of the Union to work Four (4) Ten (10) Hour Days each week with respect to certain designated positions within a Department, then the above shall apply.
(b)	OFFICE
The basic work week for all office Employees will be thirty seven and one-half (37 1/2) hours per week, seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours per day with maintenance in monthly salary. Hours will be normally scheduled as follows unless mutually agreed at the Branch level.
8:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. , with a one-half (1/2) hour lunch
period.
It is understood that coverage will be provided between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M. so as to maintain coverage on the order desk or other required areas between these hours. This is to be achieved by staggering hours and without payment of premium pay.
(C) CITY WHOLESALE DRIVER SALESMEN
The Hours of Work shall consist of Four (4) Ten (10) Hour Days per week. Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays, and where practical Statutory Holidays, to be non-delivery days. The normal lunch break for City Wholesale Driver Salesmen shall be one-half (1/2) hour without pay.
-PAGE-7
(d) COUNTRY WHOLESALE DRIVER SALESMEN
The Work Week shall be Forty (40) Hours, The hours shall be averaged on the basis of Twenty' (20) Hours for each Two Day Trip. Hours in excess of Twenty (20) per Two Day Trip, Forty (40)per week, shall, notwithstanding Article 11, Clause 11.05, be paid for at the rate of time and one-half of basic pay for the first Four (4) Hours worked in excess of Twenty (20) hours per Two (2) day trip, and double time thereafter. Should the commission based on the agreed rates be greater than the overtime, then he shall be paid the difference. It is understood that Two (2) consecutive days off shall be granted for each week worked. The normal lunch break for Country Wholesale Driver—Salesmen shall be One (1) hour wiiihsviNir pay.
(e) INTERBRANCH DEPOT TRUCK DRIVERS AND SHORT ORDER-OFF DOCK DRIVERS■
The Hours of work shall consist of Four (4) Ten (10) Hour Days per week. Two of the days off each week.s Ji.aJ-1 be consecutive. These hours to apply to those Employees, within this Classification, for whom the Union have given their consent.
11.02	The Union agrees that they are prepared, should the Company request, to negotiate with the Company with regard to the days of work.
11*03 A Schedule indicating Employee starting times will be posted on the Bulletin Boards and will require a one-week notice of change excepting in the case of emergencies.
11.04	The scheduled days in each week that a Plant Employee and Truck Driver is not required to work in order that his hours of work in that week shall not exceed Forty (40) , are to be considered as regular days off. No Employee shall be asked or permitted to work his day off except in cases of sickness or emergency.
11.05	(a) Subject to (b) herein, an Employee who works hours in
excess of his normally scheduled hours shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate for the first two hours of such excess, and double time for the remainder of such excess.
(b)	Subject to Paragraph (iv) below, in a week in which a Statutory Holiday occurs:
(i) An Employee who normally works 5 days per week at 8 hours per day, shall be paid his regular rate for 8 hours worked per day, time and one-half for the next two hours worked, and double time for hours worked in excess of 10 hours. If an Employee works on a day other than the Statutory Holidays and has already worked 32
-PAGE-8
urs at his regular rate, he shall be paid time and one-half for the first 2 hours and double time thereafter.
(ii) An Employee who normally works 4 days per week at 10 hours per day, shall be paid his regular rate for 10 hours worked, time and one-half for the next two hours worked, and double time for hours worked in excess of 12 hours. If an Employee works on a day other than the Statutory Holiday and has already worked 30 hours at his regular rate, he shall be paid time and one-half for the first 2 hours and double time thereafter.
(iii) An office Employee who normally works 5 days per week at 7 1/2 hours per day, shall be paid his regular rate for 7 1/2 hours worked per day, time and one-half for the next two hours worked, and double time for hours worked in excess of 9 1/2 hours.
If an office Employee works on a day other than the Statutory Holidays and has already worked 30 hours at his regular rate, he shall be paid time and one-half for the first 2 hours and double time thereafter.
(iv)	In respect of the Statutory Holiday, the Employee will be paid in accordance with Article 12, Clause 12.01 (b) .
(v)	The Company agrees to establish a schedule of normal starting times for all In-Plant workers. Except in cases of emergency, the Company further agrees to provide one (1) weeks' notice for any change in these posted starting times. It is understood that this notice period does not apply to any Employee working in the "Relief" designation. A reasonable effort will be made to have the same starting time for each day of the week for each Employee.
11.06	Regular Employees who are recalled to work after completion of their regular work day, or on their regular day off shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours of overtime at the applicable overtime rates of pay in this Agreement.
The above does not apply to such work immediately preceding or following the Employees scheduled hours of work.
11.07	The Union agrees to co-operate with the Management in getting necessary overtime work done. The Management agrees that overtime work shall be kept to a minimum. It is further agreed that overtime work shall be voluntary and that no Employee shall be compelled to work overtime nor shall they be discriminated against for a refusal to work overtime.
-PAGE-9
■TICLE 12 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
12.01	(a) Employees shall be entitled to the following Statutory
Holidays with pay:
NEW YEAR'S DAY GOOD FRIDAY VICTORIA DAY DOMINION DAY SASKATCHEWAN DAY
LABOUR DAY THANKSGIVING DAY REMEMBRANCE DAY CHRISTMAS DAY BOXING DAY
(1st Monday in August)
and any other Statutory Holiday declared by proper authority.
(b)	Statutory Holidays worked by Employees shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half, plus his regular rate of pay, for all hours worked on that day.
In the event of a Statutory Holiday coming on an Employee's regular day off, or during his annual vacation, he shall receive another day in lieu thereof,
(c) When a Statutory Holiday falls on an Employee's regular day off, the Employee will be given another day in lieu thereof, or paid for the same within a period of Thirty (30) days, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon; upon the further understanding that all Statutory Holidays must be cleaned up within the Fiscal Year of the Employer.
(d) Where any Civic Holiday is worked it shall be paid for at straight time in addition to regular basic wages for the time worked on that day.
12.02	In any week in which a Statutory Holiday occurs, the hours of work for that week shall be reduced by Eight (8) hours. Statutory Holidays shall be observed on days other than calendar date when so proclaimed by Governmental Authority. Where a Statutory, Public or Civic Holiday occurs in any week “ the Employer shall have the right to change the delivery days and the schedule of work in such week upon Fifteen (15) days notice to the Union.
ARTICLE 13 ~ VACATIONS
13.01	(a) Every Employee to whom this Agreement applies shall be
entitled after each year of his employment with the Employer to Annual Holidays in accordance with the following schedule -
-PAGE-10
UPON COMPLETION OF:
One year' s service	3 weeks holidays
Nine years' service	4 weeks holidays
Sixteen years' service	5 weeks holidays
Twenty-Seven years' service	6 weeks holidays
(b)	(i) Notwithstanding Article 13.01	(a), Employees hired
on or after 1 April 1986 shall receive an annual vacation based on his years of service, as set out in Article 13.01 (a), commencing on 1 January following his date of hire. For all such Employees the qualifying years of service shall be deemed to have been earned from 1 January to 31 December of the same year.
(ii)	Any such Employee with less than one year of service on 1 January following his date of hire shall be granted a vacation of 1 1/4 days for each full month of employment prior to that 1 January.
The effect of Article 13.01 (i) and (ii) is to establish a common anniversary date for all new Employees hired 1 April 1986 forward.
13.02	(a) During the month of February a list shall be posted on
which each Employee shall indicate his preference date for Vacations. Senior Employees who have not indicated their vacation preference by March 31st, may not use their seniority to dislodge Employees with less seniority but who did indicate their preference by March 31st. Any Employee who has not indicated his vacation preference by September 30th, may be subject to having his vacations assigned by the Employer to open periods within the vacation year.
(b)	The Annual Vacation period shall commence on April 1st and terminate on March 31st of the ensuing year. All vacations must be taken during this period and shall not be accumulated.
(c)	The Employer shall permit the Employee to take the entire annual holiday to which he is entitled in one continuous and uninterrupted period except in the case of an Employee who is entitled to five (5) or more weeks, in which case such additional holidays to be taken at a time to be approved by the Employer. The foregoing subject to the provisions of 13.02 (d) of this Article.
(d)	Employees selecting their Annual Vacations during the months o f June^uj:y“and August shall be limited to three (3) weeks, except in the case where further time remains available, then the more senior Employee may claim a fourth week if he is so entitled and it is mutually agreeable with Management.
(e)	During the months of June, July and August, the Employer
-PAGE-11
Ijrees to provide sufficient staff coverage to allow a minimum of 20% of the permanent staff within the Department to have simultaneous vacations.
13.03	Seniority shall govern as far as possible, in the allocation of holidays, but senior Employees must exercise the right of selection within the first two weeks of first posting or of being specifically approached by the Department Supervisor to so specify his holidays, otherewise they forfeit their right of first choice to holidays for that year. The Official Holiday Schedule shall be posted no later than April 15th for that year. Shop Stewards shall be informed of any changes in the Holiday Schedule.
13.04	(a) Annual holidays will as far as possible be granted for the period selected by the Employee and every reasonable effort will be made to avoid cancellation of preselected holidays once the schedule has been posted. The Employer, in order to assure orderly operation of all Departments, will retain the right to authorize final allocation of vacation periods but agrees to co-operate as far as possible in providing holidays at a mutually satisfactory time.
If an Employeers holidays are cancelled by Management after September 30th, then the Employee can negotiate a new holiday period which, if necessary, may extend into the subsequent year.
(b) Notwithstanding Article 13.04	(a), Management hereby
agrees that once authorized and posted, there will be no cancellation of an Employee's selected vacation period unless mutually agreed between the affected Employee and the employer. It is further understood that an affected Employee when approached regarding an emergent situation leading to a request for a change in his pre-selected vacation period will not unreasonably withhold his agreement to such proposed change if in fact the change could be made by the Employee without undue hardship,
13.05	Each Employee shall be paid by the Employer in respect to Annual holidays 1/52 of his earnings for the year immediately preceding the date on which he became entitled to that Annual Holiday for each week of holiday he is entitled to. In cases where computation of an Employee's vacation pay, according to the above method does not exceed the value of vacation pay calculated on the basis of his current rate of pay, then the latter shall apply.
Current rate of pay for Commission JVri’V'Ex.shall be oc/wa.'\hrued as meaning his present basic rate of pay plus the average commission earned during the preceding Twelve (12) months.
ARTICLE 14 ~ DISMISSAL AND SUSPENSION
14.01	Impaired ability from drinking, drinking while on duty, dishonesty, abuse of Employer's equipment, absence without good reason and permission where practical and possible to obtain the
-PAGE-12
ime, allowing unauthorized persons to ride on delivery vehicles shall be reasons for dismissal without notice. Notice of. dismissal and reasons therefore, in writing, shall be given the Shop Steward within Twenty-four hours after such action has been taken. The Shop Steward shall immediately investigate such dismissal and any protest in connection therewith shall be made within Twenty-four hours of being informed. Any Employee suspended or discharged upon grounds, which after investigation are found to be insufficient, shall be reinstated to his position and shall receive full pay for the time lost.
14>02	When an Employee who requires a driver's licence to perform
his job, has his licence revoked or suspended for a period of time, for other than valid medical reasons (other than substance abuse), the Company will assign a qualified Employee to the vacant position. Should the Employee who suffered the revocation of his Drivers Licence, not secure either a permit or have his Drivers Licence re-instated within twelve (12) months, his job will open for bid. During the period of time between losing his licence and either securing a permit or having his Drivers Licence re-instated, the Company will endeavor to provide other employment to the individual provided he is capable and work is available and that such re-employment will not result in the bumping of a Permanent Employee. The affected Employee will make every reasonable effort to secure a permit or to have his Drivers Licence re—instated. This does not preclude normal bidding or seniority rights.
14.03	An Employee will receive a copy of any written reprimands, incident reports or warning letters placed on his file, with a copy to the local Union Office and the Shop Steward. The incident causing such written reprimand, incident report, or warning letter will not be used to compound other disciplinary action taken against the Employee according to the following:
(a)	For Minor Infractions as outlined in the Company Human Resources Policy, which is not part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement — if the written reprimand, incident report or warning letter is more than twelve (12) months old.
(b)	For Major Infractions as outlined in the Company Human Resources Policy, which is not part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement - if the written reprimand, incident report or warning letter is more than thirty-six (36) months old.
(c)	In order for the above paragraphs (a) and (b) to have force and effect, the Employee concerned must have worked for the twelve (12) months or thirty-six (36) months as the case may be and any time missed from work on account of Short Term Disability, Long Term Disability, Workers Compensation claim, approved leave of absence or lay off will be added to the applicable time period.
-PAGE-13
(d)	Any unrecorded reprimands or warnings will not be used 'for disciplinary action.
ARTICLE 15 ~ TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
15.01	Any Employee wishing to leave the service of the Employer shall give Seven days prior notice, Except for cause, in the event of the Employer wishing to dispense with the services of an Employee, such Employee shall receive Seven days prior notice, or in lieu of Seven days his normal basic pay for One week. In the event of an Employee being dismissed, only those wages due up to time of leaving shall be paid and within Fourteen days all other monies due or owing either party shall be paid. An Employee leaving without notice or being dismissed because of impaired ability from drinking, drinking while on duty, dishonesty, shall not be entitled to notice or pay in lieu thereof.
ARTICLE 16 ~ GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
16.01	There shall be no strikes, slow downs, stoppage of work or suspension of the same by Employee union members, or lock-outs on . thepart of Management and/or the Employer during the settlement of disputes and the following procedure shall be followed in all cases.
(a)	The Employee shall present any differences or grievance to his Shop Steward without undue delay, in writing.
(b)	The Shop Steward shall present the grievance, and take the question up with the Head of the Department involved in the dispute at Regina and a decision shall be given within Twenty-four hours.
(c)	(i) In the event that no conclusion is reached, the Shop Steward shall take the question up with the Employer's Manager at Regina and a decision shall be given within Three (3) days.
(ii)	At this step of the Grievance Procedure the Union may present a policy or group grievance.
(iii)	Should the matter under dispute not be settled in any of the above stages to the satisfaction of the Employer and/or the Union, a written report will be made immediately by the Regina Branch Manager and the Union to the Human Resources Manager, who shall give a written decision within Fourteen (14) days.
‘(a) Should any matter or dispute not be settled in any Of the above stages, the same shall then be immediately referred to Arbitration as follows:
(i) The Company and the Union shall first consider the
-PAGE-14
ppointment of a single Arbitrator by mutual agreement. The Union shall first propose names for a single Arbitrator to the Company. Should the parties not be able to agree on the appointment of a single Arbitrator then (ii) following shall apply.
(ii) Should the parties not be able to agree on the appointment of a single Arbitrator, then the matter in dispute shall be immediately referred to a Board of Arbitration, which Board shall be composed of one Member named by the Union, one Member named by the Employer, and a Third Member, who shall be the Chairman, to be mutually agreed upon by the Parties named. Said Board to be appointed within Fourteen (14) days from the date of the written decision given by the Human Resources Manager, referred to in paragraph (c) . Should agreement not be reached on the selection of the Third Member within the above period, he shall be named by the Minister of Labour of the Province of Saskatchewan. The Chairman's expenses shall be shared equally by the Union and the Employer.
16*02 Should the Union wish to proceed to Arbitration with any proper matter they must advise the Company within fourteen (14) calendar days of the date of notification of the decision of the Human Resources Manager or his designate as outlined in 16.01 (c). •
16.03	An Arbitrator or a Board of Arbitration shall not alter, add to, subtract from, modify or amend any part of this agreement.
ARTICLE 17 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND SEVERANCE PAY
17.01	(a) The Company goals include the maintenance and
development of viable Branch operations. In pursuit of these goals, it is understood that the Company may participate in the development of training programs which will enable Employees to further their knowledge and/or skills relative to the requirements of the Company's business. Should certain Branch operations be closed or altered resulting in layoffs or job deletions then the Company will offer relocation to affected Employees elsewhere within the organization including the affected branch operations where vacancies exist.
(b) In all of the above cases, the Union will be given ninety (90) days written notice of the Company's intention to close or alter the plant operation. If no vacancy occurs during the ninety (90) day notice period the Employees affected will have another fifteen (15) months in which to have an opportunity to transfer to vacancies that may come open. The Employee may elect the option of taking another job that may be available or severance pay under Article 17.01 (g). In the event that an Employee exercises an option to transfer to another plant, then the Unions agree to provide an opportunity for the transferred Employee(s) to maintain their full seniority rights without respect to their prior Union affiliations subject to a two (2) year restriction on bidding rights. The
-PAGE-15
portunity for transfers will be allocated in accordance with Article 17.02.
(c)	New Employees hired on or after the giving of the ninety (90) day notice period will not be covered by the above clause.
(d)	An Employee who is rendered redundant or displaced from his job as a result of Technological Change (as defined in the Trade Union Act of Saskatchewan) shall be dealt with under seniority provisions of this Agreement.
(e) Where new or greater skills are required than are already possessed by the affected Employees, such Employees shall, at the expense of the Employer, be given a reasonable period of time, without reduction of hours of work or rates of pay, during which they may acquire the necessary skills required by such Technological Change (as defined in the Trade Union Act of Saskatchewan).
(f)	No additional Employee shall be hired by the Employer until Employees affected by Technological Change (as defined in the Trade Union Act of Saskatchewan) , or Employees on layoff, have been notified of the proposed Technological Change (as defined in the Trade Union Act of Saskatchewan) and allowed a reasonable training period to acquire the necessary knowledge or skill to retain their employment,
(g)	In the event of an amalgamation, permanent closure of a plant or Department or parts thereof, or automation causing Employees to lose their employment, Employees who have five (5) years or more of service will be paid Severance Pay at their current basic rate of pay as follows:
Two (2) week's pay for each year of Service to a maximum of 20 years of Service, (Pro-rated for partial years)
An Employee will forfeit any claim to employment with the Company once severance pay has been taken.
17.02	(a) An Employee (one or more) who is displaced from his job
by virtue of Technological Change (as defined in the Trade Union Act of Saskatchewan) will be given the opportunity to fill other vacancies which are or become available on the basis of seniority and ability. Where ability is equal as between two or more Employees, seniority shall prevail.
(b) The Company agrees to maintain an In-Company Labour Pool of Employees laid off due to Technological Change (as defined in the Trade Union Act of Saskatchewan) . Employees in this Pool will be advised of opportunities which come available at any of the Company's
-PAGE-16
ants and for which these laid off Employees may be qualified. Employee names will be maintained in this Pool until they, have accepted a job offered or until the expiry of a period of up to eighteen (18) months from the date they received notice of the lay-off.
ARTICLE 18 - GROUP BENEFIT PLANS
18.01	All insurance whether Employer paid, shared by the Employer and the Employee, and/or compulsory, Pension Plans, Six (6) Days Sick Leave with pay, shall be continued.
In the event of an Employee not requiring the said Sick Leave for that calendar year, he shall be paid for the number of days not taken as soon after the end of the calendar year as possible. For purposes of establishing the daily rate of the unused sick pay, it is agreed that it shall be arrived at by dividing the Employee's annual Basic rate for the year by 260.
Should it be necessary to make changes in the premiums or conditions of the above, the Employee shall be notified. New Employees who will benefit under any of the above shall be notified by the Employer's Official when being hired. Employees hired to fill a permanent vacancy shall not be entitled to Sick pay for the calendar year in which they are hired.
18.02	The Life Insurance, Short and Long Term Disability Income Plans, previously in existence, shall be continued. New Employees who become eligible shall be notified by the Company and enrolled on the effective date. Contributions from the Employee and the Employer together with the benefit resulting from the Unemployment Insurance Program, shall continue to fund the Plans through to March 31, 1983. Effective April 1, 1983, the Company will pay the full cost of the Short Term, Long Term and Life Insurance premiums, offset by the benefit resulting from the Unemployment Insurance program.
Particulars regarding the Plans are available from the Branch Administration Office.
18.03	An Employee will not be eligible for vacation pay and paid sick days during the period of absence in excess of 105 consecutive days.
18.04	Attached to the Agreement is schedule "C" which outlines the Group Benefit Plans that are in place and will remain in place during the life of the Agreement.
18.05	Effective June 1, 1991 the Company agrees to contribute to the Pension Plans for Unionized Employees as follows:
-PAGE-17
In respect of each participating Employee, 3% of total hours worked or paid based on regular rates of pay. This shall be regular straight time earnings exclusive of commissions, bonuses, and any other special payments or taxable benefits.
ARTICLE 19 ~ CLOTHING AND UNIFORMS
19.01	(i) Employees required to wear a uniform by the Employer while on duty shall do so as required.
(ii)	The Employer agrees to supply Uniforms for Driver
Salesmen, Dock Truck Drivers, Interbranch Drivers and Shipping Department staff which, for each two year period, will include 3 pair of Trousers, 4 Shirts,	2 Windbreakers (one each for winter and
summer) ,	1 winter cap (and 1 summer cap where requested) .
(iii)	Crests identifying the Company shall be provided without charge to the Employee.
(iv)	The Employer shall be responsible, without cost to the Employees, for the dry cleaning, laundry and repair (if thought advisable) of Uniforms that Employees are required to wear. Uniforms for dry cleaning and shirts for laundry will be deposited and picked up at a station in the plant.
All uniforms and shirts for dry cleaning and laundry are to be delivered and picked up by the Employee from a designated station within the plant and none of the clothing referred to herein is to be directly delivered to any dry cleaning or laundry establishment.
(v)	Material and style shall be determined by the Employer.
19.02	Suitable clothing, rubber aprons, rubber or safety footwear shall be provided by the Employer to those Employees in the plant who due to the nature of their work are required to wear the same, in the opinion of the Manager and the Occupational Health and Safety Committee. White coveralls, rubber boots and cotton gloves will be provided for Bulk Tank Drivers. At no time must this clothing be removed from the Employer's premises after an Employee is off duty at the end of his daily work. Should such clothing receive unnecessary rough usage, the Employee shall be charged for the same.
In the event of an Employee leaving the service of the Employer the uniforms shall be returned to the Employer.
19.03	Each Employee wearing a uniform must at all times keep it and himself neat and tidy.
-PAGE-18
liforms, or parts thereof may be worn only while going to and returning directly from work and while on duty, Any breach of this regulation shall, after due warning, be just cause for dismissal.
19.04	The Employer has the right to have uniforms, coveralls, rubber aprons, rubber footwear repaired if thought advisable. Management shall be responsible for allocating all clothing to Employees,
19.05	Plant Employees required to work in TUUIuS* of below freezing temperatures shall be provided with suitable parkas and mitts free, the same to be kept on the Employer' s premises at all times.
19.06	To assist Bulk Tank Drivers to purchase protective clothing, the Company agrees to pay Twenty (20) Dollars toward the purchase of a ,,roJCjLdoo Suit” for &ac±r Bulk Tank Driver on the basis of one (1) payment per man each Five (5) years, It is the Driver's responsibility and commitment to carry his "Skidoo Suit" in his truck during the period November 1st to March 31st each year. Any Driver found not to have his Skidoo Suit" with him during this period will be subject to reprimand under the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 20 - ABSENCE FOR CAUSE
20.01	Effective from the day of this Agreement, leave of absence with pay will be granted to Employees, for the purpose of arranging for and attending the funeral of members of his immediate family.
The length of such time off shall be determined by the Company following discussion with the Shop Steward and the bereaved Employee. The immediate family shall include Employee's Mother, Father, Mother-in-Law, Father-in-Law, Wife, Husband, Common-Law Spouse, Son, Daughter, Brother, Sister, Grandparents, and Grandchildren,
20.02	Employees requiring time off for medical, dental and optical appointments because they were unable to arrange for same during their non-working hours, shall be allowed such time off up to a maximum of two (2) hours on each occasion with pay.
20.03	Any Employee who for any reason finds it necessary to be absent from his duties must obtain permission from the proper authorities of the Employer in sufficient time to provide a suitable substitute.
20.04	If an Employee is called to serve on a jury, he will receive from the Company the difference between his jury pay and his regular pay. An Employee is order to qualify for the difference in payment must advise the Company that he has been called to act as a juror and must submit to the Company the cheque he receives for jury pay whereupon the Company will—pay him the difference.
-PAGE-19
>.05 If an Employee is subpoenaed or summoned to appear in a lawful Court in a matter to which the Employee is not a party and on a day when the Employee was scheduled to work, he will receive from the Company the difference between what he receives for so appearing and his regular pay. 'To qualify for such difference, the Employee must notify the Company as soon as possible that he vs required to so appear, and must submit to the Company the cheque he receives for such appearance, whereupon the Company will pay him the difference.
20.06	Special leave of absence may be granted to an Employee for the following:	educational purposes; personal and compassionate
reasons; as extra time off in conjunction with vacations. Each request will be considered on its merits and within the context of the Srt!utfri manpower requirements at the time of such request.
ARTICLE 21 - UNION BUSINESS fi BARGAINING
21.01	Employees designated by the Union to attend to official Union Business shall be granted, without pay, up to two (2) Weeks in any one Agreement Year. Such leave of absence shall be asked for by proper Union authority and the Employer informed at least Two (2) weeks in advance. Not more than Two (2) Employees shall be granted such leave at the same time.
21.02	(a) Bargaining Representatives for the Union shall be duly elected or appointed by the Union for the purpose of re-negotiating and/or amending this Agreement, Their names shall be given to the Employer, in writing, before negotiations take place, by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union. These representatives as such shall have no power after the Agreement has been completed and signed,
(b) Deductions shall not be made from the wages of any Employee on the Union Negotiating Committee to negotiate revision or amendment of this Agreement during business hours.
ARTICLE 22 - BONDING AND LICENCES
22.01	When an Employer deems it necessary to bond any of its Employees, the premium for such bond shall be paid by the Employer. Failure to obtain bond shall be reason for dismissal without notice.
22.02	The Employer shall pay for such licences and Certificates as may be required by Permanent Employees, upon the understanding that the Employer's responsibility extends to Chauffeur's or Operator's Licences (without restriction or penalty charges) only where required. Any Employee leaving the service of the Employer will refund, or may have deducted from his pay, such portion of the Licence Fee as the same bears to the unexpired time for which the Licence is granted.
-PAGE-20
ARTICLE 23 - OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
23.01	In order to provide safe and healthy working conditions for all Employees, the Company agrees that the minimum acceptable standards for the safety and health of its Employees will be provided in the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1977 and the Accident Prevention Regulations as outlined by the Occupational Health and Safety Division of the Department of Labour in the Province of Saskatchewan or as subsequently amended.
ARTICLE 24 - GENERAL CLAUSES
24.01	The Employer shall provide bulletin boards which shall be placed so that all Employees will have access to them and upon which the Union shall have the right to post notices of meetings and such other notices as may be interest to the Employees. The Union agrees that such notices shall not be offensive to the Company.
24.02	Employees shall be allowed a Ten minute rest period each morning and each afternoon. Where facilities are not provided for coffee in the Plant, Employees wishing to leave the plant for same
must obtain permission £Hjiu their Supervisor.
24.03	All Employees shall be prohibited from stamping prices, dates, etc., on products in stores and from packing products in show cases etc.
24.04	Driver ^Los^sn jm?t be capable of extendi net, and ^omnJ-afJ-ng their invoices properly and accurately and exercise this capability. Continual offenders will be discussed with the Shop Stewards.
24.05	To offset the cost of providing all Employees with updated Collective Bargaining Agreements, the Company will pay the Union the amount of .£Jv 00 per member (to cover a reasonable number of copies of the Collective Bargaining Agreement).
24.06	Truck Drivers shall not be required to wash the outside of their trucks, but must keep the inside of the truck washed and neat at all times.
24.07	No provision of this Agreement shall be deemed to authorize or approve any action or Act which is illegal under any Dominion or Provincial Legislation.
24.08	The Employer, after giving prior notice, agrees to negotiate with the Union, the commission payable on a new product and a supplementary Agreement shall be executed by the parties covering the results of such negotiations. The Union agrees to handle the new product irrespective of whether or not the negotiations are
-PAGE-21
included. The Company agrees that the negotiated commission will be paid retroactive to the introduction date of the new product.
24.09	(a) For Mechanics, Service Mechanics and others who are required to provide their own tools, Company will replace such tools which are broken at work and which are not covered by any guarantee by the supplier and/or manufacturer from whom the Employee purchased the tools.
(b) Company Fire & Theft Insurance will cover the loss of personal tools due to theft resulting from break-in to the Company premises and/or the mechanic's tool box and for fire on the Company's premises. In order to be eligible, the mechanic must supply the Company with an inventory of his tools and their cost each January.
24.10	Notwithstanding any clause or article or anything else to the contrary in this Agreement, where the normal or customary work of an Employee is completed, or not required by Management, the Employee,
if so directed, shall perform any other work he is capable of performing.
-PAGE-22
ARTICLE 25
DURATION

This Agreement and the attached Letters of Understanding shall cancel all previous agreements between the Employer and the Union and shall be in effect from the date of ratification and shall end on the 31st day of March 1993, and shall remain in force thereafter on a yearly basis which in each instance of renewal shall be regarded as the Term of the Agreement until terminated by either party giving the other not less than Thirty (30) days nor more than Sixty (60) days notice, in writing, prior to the expiration date. If amendments to not more than Three (3) paragraphs are contemplated by either party of this Agreement, such amendments shall not be considered as termination of the Agreement, but the party proposing the same shall give notice, in writing, thereof to the other party not less than Forty (40) days nor more than Sixty (60) days before the expiration date hereinbefore referred to.
Notice of intention to terminate or amend this Agreement shall be given to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union or the Human Resources Manager of the Employer, as the case may be, either by delivering the same to him personally or by registered mail.
-PAGE-23
SCHEDULE "A"
The following basic wage scale shall prevail:
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 1991 i
GENERAL PLANT HELP	OFFICE
WHOLESALE DRIVERS
STEP 1	1,750.00 per	mo
(0 to 12 months)
STEP 2	2,017.00 per	mo
(13 to 24 months)
STEP 3	2,269.00 per	mo
(25 to 36 months)
STEP 4	2,521.00 per	mo
3(after 36 months)
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 1992:
GENERAL PLANT HELP
1.650.00	per mo
1.864.00	per mo
2.097.00	per mo
2.330.00	per mo
OFFICE
1.750.00	per mo
2.019.00	per mo
2.272.00	per mo
2.524.00	per mo
WHOLESALE DRIVERS
STEP 1	1,
(0 to 12 months) STEP 2	2,
(13 to 24 months) STEP 3	2,
(25 to 36 months) STEP 4	2,
(after 36 months)
750.00	per mo
077.00	per mo
336.00	per mo
596.00	per mo
1.650.00	per mo
1.920.00	per mo
2.160.00	per mo
2.400.00	per mo
1.750.00	per BIO
2.079.00	per mo
2.339.00	per mo
2.599.00	per mo
RELIEF DRIVERS (excluding Bulk Tank Relief Drivers) shall be paid $90.00 per month over and above the General Plant Rate.
TRUCK DRIVERS - shall be paid $55.00 per month over and above the General Plant Rate.
INTERBRANCH DRIVERS:	- shall be paid $85.00 per month over and above
the General Plant Rate,
A SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL in the amount of fifty (50) cents per hour shall be paid to shift Employees who work a shift starting prior to 5 AM or after 1 PM and sixty-five (65) cents per hour for shifts beginning after 8 PM and before 1 AM, This differential shall apply to the entire shift and the shift differential shall not form part of the basic wage rate and shall not be subject to overtime rates.
-PAGE-24
-PAGE-25
SCHEDULE B
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
1.	The job titles referred to under Recognized Departmental Job Titles and Special Job Titles will be the plant Departmental job classifications recognized, where applicable, in the following Departments. All other Employees will be classified as General Plant Help.
Recognized Departments
1.	Butter Department
2.	Milk Department
3.	Ice Cream Department
4.	Cheddar Cheese Department
5.	Cultured Products Department
6.	Powder Department
7.	Shipping Department
2. RECOGNIZED DEPARTMENTAL JOB TITLES
^A11 PLANTS	*>B11 PLANTS
(a)	Department Head	(a)	Head Milk Processor
(b)	Assistant Department Head	(b)	Department Assistant
(<=)	Mix Maker	<c)	Packaging Machine
(d)	Cheddar Selector		Operator
(e)	Package Machine Operator	(d)	Buttermaker
(f)	Plant Relief Person	(e)	Cream Receiver
(g)	Cream Receiver	(f)	Cream Tester
(h)	Cream Tester	(g)	Shipper
(i)	Evaporator Dryer Operator	<h)	Cooler Person
	(with 4th Class Steam Papers)		
(j)	Evaporator Dryer Operator		
	(without 4th Class Steam Papers)		
(k)	Lead Cooler Person		
(1)	Lead Fridge Person		
	(Ice Cream Manufacturing Plants	only)	
(m)	High Rack Fork Lift Operator		
-PAGE-26
HEDULE B (Cont'd)
3. SPECIAL JOB TITLES
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j) <k) (1) (m)
Head Engineer - "A” PLANTS
Assistant Head Engineer (A Plants only)
Engineer
Engineer - Refrigeration Endorsement Automotice Mechanic
Vehicle Body Maintenace (Regina only)
Transport Refrigeration Service Mechanic (MA" Plants only)
Lab Technician
Bulk Tank Unloader/Washer
Bulk Tank Driver
Relief Bulk Tank Driver
Intercity Bulk Hauler
Foreman “ "B" Plants
5. LIST OF PLANTS AND RECOGNIZED DEPARTMENTS IN EACH "A" PLANTS	"B11 PLANTS
REGINA		LLOYDMINSTER:
1.	Milk Department	1. Butter Department
2.	Ice Cream Department	2. Milk Department
3.	Shipping Department	
4.	Cheddar Cheese Department	MELFORT:
SASKATOON:		1. Milk Department
1.	Milk Department	
2.	Ice Cream Department	NORTH BATTLEFORD:
3.	Cultured Products Department	1. Milk Department
4.	Shipping Department	
5.	Butter Department	
6.	Powder Department	PRINCE ALBERT: 1. Milk Department
YORKTON:		
1.	Butter Department	SWIFT CURRENT:
2.	Milk Department	1. Butter Department
3.	Powder Department	2. Milk Department
4.	Shipping Department	
WEYBURN:
1. Milk Department
-PAGE-27
, -unt'd)E_B
CLASSIFIED JOB TITLES AND MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS - "A" PLANTS
JOB TITLE:	DEPARTMENT HEAD	PAY BRACKET:	14
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Qualified for the complete processing and operating function of the involved Department and capable of heading the operation of that Department, which shall include directing the work force, Monitoring Operations, sustaining Good Housekeeping and Sanitary Practices, Supervising the training of new Employees and maintaining all required Department records adequately.
-	Must be capable of performing all functions assigned to each Classified Job in the Department and in emergency situations may be required to handle any given job in this Department.
JOB TITLE:	ASSISTANT DEPARTMENT HEAD	PAY BRACKET:	7
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Capable of processing and operating as assigned by the Department Head.
- Must be capable of operating all applicable equipment adequately..
- Must be capable of performing all functions assigned to the various Classified jobs in the Department.
-	Must be capable of Composition Control including Standardizing and having knowledge of Government Standards as required.
-	Knowledgeable of recognized Cleaning, Good Housekeeping and Sanitation Practices.
-	Act as a replacement for the Department Head during periods of absence.
JOB TITLE: MIX MAKER	PAY BRACKET: 5
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Qualified for and capable of processing Mixes.
-	Must be capable of operating all Mix Processing Equipment.
-	Must be capable of Composition Control and associated knowledge of Formulations and Standards.
-	Assume responsibility for proper cleaning and Sanitizing -procedure.
JOB TITLE: CHEDDAR SELECTOR	PAY BRACKET: 7
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Qualified for and capable of grading and selecting Cheddar for packaging, and for the Supervision of the cutting and packaging operation.
-	Must have the knowledge of the various Standards for the selection.
-PAGE-28
;Cont/d)S_B
JOB TITLE:	PACKAGING MACHINE OPERATOR	PAY BRACKET:. 2
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Qualified for operating Recognized Departmental packaging equipment including start-up and clean-up.
-	Assume full responsibility for particular packaging operation.
-	Must have adequate knowledge of Machine Operation.
-	Able to make minor adjustments as necessary.
-	Capable of operating routinely at capacity of machine at recognized levels.
-	Assume responsibility for Cleaning and Sanitizing.
JOB TITLE: PLANT RELIEF PERSON	PAY BRACKET: 3
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS;
-	Must be capable of relieving up to and including the Machine Operator level in both the Milk Department and the Ice Cream Department as required.
■TOR TTTT.F.;	CREAM RECEIVER	PAY BRACKET: 2
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Must be capable of Cream Receiving, Grading, Testing, Vacreating, Pasteurizing and Neutralizing.
-	When required, act as a replacement for:
(a)	The Assistant Department Head for Vacreating and Pasteuriz ing.
(b)	The Cream Tester.
■TOR TT'TT.F. •	CREAM TESTER	PAY BRACKET: 2
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Qualified for and capable of Cream Testing.
JOB TITLE:	EVAPORATOR/DRYER OPERATOR	PAY BRACKET: 9
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Capable of operating evaporator/dryer and (With 4th Class Steam Papers) related equipment including start-up and clean-up as required,
-	Must have 4th Class Steam Papers.
- Must be capable of operating all equipment in this Department.
- Must be capable of Composition Control with a knowledge of Governmental Standards.
-	Knowledge of recognized Cleaning and Sanitation practices.
-PAGE-29
PAY BRACKET:. 3
(Cont,d)E_B
JOB TITLE:	EVAPORATOR/DRYER OPERATOR
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS;
-	Capable of operating evaporator/dryer and (Without 4th Class Steam Papers) related equipment including start-up and clean-up as required.
-	Must be	capable of operating	all	equipment.
-	Must be	capable of Composition	Control	with	a knowledge	of
Governmental Standards.
-	Knowledge of recognized Cleaning and Sanitation practices.
JOB TITLE:	LEAD COOLER PERSON	PAY	BRACKET:	6
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Capable of Cooler Inventory Control which includes ordering of products into cooler, the disposition and rotation of products out of cooler.
-	Capable of supervision of other personnel in the cooler.
JOB TITLE:	LEAD FRIDGE PERSON	PAY	BRACKET:	5
(Ice Cream Mfg Plants only)
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
- Capable of Inventory Control, Inventory Rotation and Supervision of area personnel.
JOB TITLE:	HIGH RACK FORKLIFT OPERATOR	PAY BRACKET:	2
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Capable of operating the Raymond High-Lift Double-Reach Fork-Lift Truck in pallet racked storage areas where the lift exceeds twelve (12) feet.
-	Must have adequate knowledge of machine operation.
-	Able to make minor adjustments when necessary.
-	Capable of operating routinely at capacity of machine at recognized levels.
SPECIAL JOB TITLES - ENGINEERING AND MAINTENANCE
JOB TITLE:	HEAD ENGINEER	PAY BRACKET:	18
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Require a Valid 3rd Class Engineer's Certificate.
-	Must also hold a valid Refrigeration Certificate.
~ Must be capable of directing the work force, sustaining good Housekeeping and Sanitary practices and maintaining all required records adequately.
-PAGE-30
ont'dC b
JOB TITLE:	ASSISTANT HEAD ENGINEER	PAY BRACKET:	16
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Require a Valid 3rd Class Engineer's Certificate.
-	Must also hold a valid Refrigeration Certificate.
-	Must be capable of directing the work force, sustaining good Housekeeping and Sanitary practices and maintaining all required records adequately.
-	Act as a replacement for the Department Head during periods of absence.
JOB TITLE:	ENGINEER	PAY BRACKET:	15
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	In order to Qualify must be Holder of valid 4th Class Engineer's Certificate with Refrigeration Engineer's Certificate,
-	Recognized 3rd Class Engineer's Certificate with Refrigeration -only where required.
-	Increments will be paid for when positions require:
INCREMENT
i	- High Pressure and/or Stainless Steel Welding.
1	- Industrial Maintenance Certificate.
JOB TITLE:	ENGINEER - REFRIGERATION	PAY	BRACKET:	13
	ENDORSEMENT			
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:				
- In order Certificate tonnes.	to qualify must be holder of with a Refrigeration Plant	valid 4th Class Engineer's Endorsement not exceeding 200		
JOB TITLE:	AUTOMOTIVE MECHANIC	PAY	BRACKET:	9
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:				
- Require a	Journeyman's Certificate.			
JOB TITLE:	VEHICLE BODY MAINTENANCE	PAY	BRACKET:	2
(Regina Branch Only)
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
- Require Specific knowledge of Vehicle Repair and Maintenance.
PAGE-31
Cont'd)E_B
JOB TITLE: TRANSPORT REFRIGERATION	PAY BRACKET:’ 9
SERVICE MECHANIC MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Required to possess or obtain within a reasonable period, a Thermo King School Certificate or Equivalent.
-	Must be capable of dismantling and Rebuilding mobile refrigeration units.
JOB TITLE:	LABORATORY TECHNICIAN	PAY BRACKET: 2
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Laboratory Technician's Certificate required.
JOB TITLE: BULK TANK DRIVERS	PAY BRACKET: 6
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Must possess the required Class Operator's Licence.
-	Department of AgrvuitVuJiZ'as Licence as required.
JOB TITLE:	BULK TANK RELIEF DRIVERS	PAY BRACKET: 12
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Same qualifications as Bulk Tank Drivers.
JOB TITLE: BULK TANK UNLOADER/WASHER	PAY BRACKET: 2
MINIMUM OUALIFT/^Tnarg ;
-	Holder of Valid Class M1A" Licence.
-	Holder of Valid Grader's Licence.
-	Must be capable of Washing and Sanitizing Tankers and C.I.P. System in accordance with proper acceptable procedures.
-	Must be capable of taking proper care of Tanker Pump.
JOB TITLE:	INTERCITY BULK HAULER	PAY BRACKET; 3
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
-	Must possess the required Class Operator's Licence.
-PAGE-32
BRACKET VALUES
	APRIL 1, 1991	APRIL 1, 1992
0	General	Plant Rate
1	Plus $16.00	$17.00
2	32.00	34.00
3	48.00	51.00
4	64.00	68.00
5	80.00	85.00
6	96.00	102.00
7	112.00	119.00
8	128.00	136.00
9	144.00	153.00
10	160.00	170.00
11	176.00	187.00
12	192.00	204.00
13	208.00	221.00
14	224.00	238.00
15	240.00	255.00
16	256.00	272.00
17	272.00	289.00
18	288.00	306.00
19	304.00	323.00
20	320.00	340.00
When an Employee qualifies for consideration under more than one bracket classification, he will be paid the higher of the brackets involved. At no time will brackets be stacked because of dual qualification.
-PAGE-33
OVER -RATES
With job rates in effect, it is recognized that some Employees will have been receiving rates of pay which are in excess of those established. The Company agrees to protect former rates by accepting ”over-rates” which shall be in effect so long as the incumbents remain on the particular job.
Should an Employee be transferred to a lower rated job at his own request, the lower rate will be effective immediately. If, however, the transfer is involuntary, the over-rate difference will be added to the new job rate.
If a transfer to a higher rated job is involved the over-rate will be reduced by the difference between the former and the new job rate.
It is understood that any future increases in the bracket value of a job or increase in job increment will be applied against the over-rates until such time as they have been eliminated.
-PAGE-34
SCHEDULE B (Cont'd)
WAGE ADJUSTMENTS FOR TRANSFER TO CLASSIFIED JOBS
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 1982 in conjunction with the CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE.
(a)	Transfers to Special Job Titles and Certain Departmental Job Titles.
When Employees transfer to jobs with special job titles they will be paid on the basis of a rate established midway between their present wage rate and the listed wage rate for the particular Special Job Title for a period of two (2) months. Should progress, upon review, be considered satisfactory, a further increase in wages will be awarded on the basis of a rate established midway between the previously adjusted rate and the Special Job Title rate. Upon successful completion of four (4) months service in the Classified' position, the Emplove§ will be awarded the full rate established for that position. It is understood that all required licences or certificates will have been obtained and minimum qualifications met.
This same method of salary determination will be applicable to the following Recognized Departmental Job Titles:	Department Heads
"A" PLANT, Head Milk Processors "B" PLANT, Assistant Department Heads, Mix Maker, Cheddar Selector, Evaporator/Dryer Operators.
(b)	Transfers to other Recognized Departmental Job Titles
Other Recognized Departmental Jobs will have a maximum sixty (60) day qualifying period at a wage rate one-half way between his present rate and the rate established for the particular Recognized Departmental Job. If after review at the end of sixty (60) days the applicant is found satisfactory, he will receive the rate established for that Recognized Departmental Job.
(c)	Should an Employee not be considered satisfactory upon review, by Management in consultation with the Union, he will revert to a lower rated job opening for which he is qualified and receive the wage rate applicable to that job. Where circumstances warrant an extension of the qualifying period can be granted.
(d)	Where an Employee transfers to a job for which he has proven qualifications, then he shall receive the full job rate immediately.
-PAGE-35
Where an Employee regularly performs two or more jobs, one of which is classified and requires a minimum of one-third of his time, then a composite rate shall be established. In the determining of a composite rate the two highest bracket rates shall be used to calculate an average rate which recognizes the percentage of time spent on the highest rated job with the balance os his time calculated at the second highest rate.
Composite rates will be reviewed on March 31st, and October 31st each year and adjusted where necessary for changes in the normal job routine.
(f) Employees temporarily assigned to classified jobs shall receive a rate of pay n accordance with the wage procedure outlined above.
-PAGE-36
SCHEDULE "C"
Cg the cooperaiois
Dairy Producers In-Scope Employees Benefit Summary
Basic Group Life Insurance
Each Employee: $25,000 MomhhiBate- $0.26/$1,000
Weekly indemnity
Benefit is equal to 66 2/3% of gross weekly salary Maximum: $460/week
Benefits commence on the 1st day of accident or the 4th day of sickness for a maximum of 15 weeks.
Monthly Rate: $0.80/$ 10 Long Term Disability
Benefit is equal to 66 2/3% of gross monthly salary
Maximum: %T.,5/J/u/month
Benefits commence after 15 weeks of disabiltiy.
Monthly Rate: $1.87/$100
Dental (Effective April 1,1992)
Basic services: 100% coverage Major restorative: 60% coverage Orthodontics (under age 18): 50% coverage Annual maximum (basic and major combined'/: $ 1,750/person Orthodontic maximum: $1,500 lifetime/person Monthly rates: single $13.23 family $32.24 (Quoted April 30,1991)
Extended Health Care (Effective April 1,1992)
100% coverage $25 annual deductible Monthly rate: $11.88 (Quoted April 30,1991)
Lun \v*o; e>e>)
.LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
AND:	DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
RE; CONTRACTING OUT
(1)	The Company hereby confi-rmp that it is not currently considering the exercise of its option to contract out and/or franchise out Bargaining Unit work now performed by its Employees and is unlikely to do so during the term of this Collective Bargaining Agreement which expires on March 31, 1993.
(2)	Should the Company decide to reconsider its attitude toward the contracting out and/or franchising out of a portion of its present Bargaining Unit work, the Company agrees to give the Union a one hundred and fifty (150) day Notice period prior to implementing any changes. The relevant factor which the Company will consider before contracting out any such work will be the economic importance to the Company or to the affected Branch of the proposed contracting out and/or franchising out.
(3)	Should the Company give the Union the above stated one hundred and fifty (150) day Notice, the Company agrees to meet with the Union not later than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the intended date of implementation to explain the details which support the economic importance of its proposals in the context of its business.
(4)	The Union shall have the opportunity at such meeting to explain to the Company the details which support the alternatives and proposals the Union is willing to consider to attempt to persuade the Company not to contract out and/or franchise out in accordance with the Company's said Notice.
(5)	(a) Should the Company and the Union fail to reach agreement on the matter prior to one hundred and five (1U£>)- days of the intended date of implementation, the Union may file a grievance at the last step of the Grievance Procedure and the matter shall be taken to Arbitration on the written request of the Union which shall be given to the Company not less than ninety-five (95) days prior to the intended date of implementation.
-PAGE-37
(b)	Should an Arbitration Board be called on to decide the matter, pursuant to this paragraph (5) , the question before such Board will be:	"Is the proposed contracting out and/or franchising
out of such work economically important to the Company or to the affected Branch as opposed to arguments as may be presented to the contrary by the Union representing those Employees directly affected by the proposed contracting out and/or franchising out of bargaining unit work?"
(c)	Should 3 JEtaAru’	be. r.aijp^.on to
decide the matter, such Board shall be composed of one member named by the Company, one member named by the Union and the third member who shall be Chairman mutually agreed upon by the parties named. Should an agreement not be reached upon the selection of the Third Member not less than eighty-five (85) days prior to the proposed date of implementation, he shall be named by the Minister of Labour of the Province of Saskatchewan.
(d)	'The decision of the Board of Arbitration, if unfavorable to the Company, shall have force and effect only until the expiration date of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, or until the matter becomes the subject of collective bargaining between the parties, upon the parties entering into negotiations for a new or revised Collective Bargaining Agreement, whichever is the later.
(7) This Letter of Understanding will expire on March 31,
1993.
-PAGE-38
ER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
AND:	DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
RE:	INTERBRANCH DRIVERS ~ INTERBRANCH/INTERPROVINCIAL TRIPS
It is agreed between the parties:
1.	Regularly scheduled Interbranch and Interprovincial trips out of Regina Branch will be first assigned to Interbranch Drivers.
2.	Should extra Interbranch or Interprovincial trips out of Regina Branch be necessary, wherever practical and possible they will first be assigned to Interbranch Drivers, providing that such assignment does not necessitate:
(a)	' re-scheduling of trips
(b)	unnecessary overtime
(c)	undue expense for the Company
3.	Wherever practical and possible, Interbranch and/or Interprovincial trips out of Regina Branch will first be asigned to Interbranch Drivers. This means that no other Employee(s) will be assigned to an Interbranch or Interprovincial trip out of Regina Branch, subject to 2. above, when an Interbranch Driver is available and not scheduled to take any other trip on the same day.
-PAGE-39
ER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
AND:	DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
The Company will recognize a UHT DEPARTMENT under the Collective Bargaining Agreement, Schedule "BM, page 2, A Plants - REGINA:
(1)	Department Head - Bracket 14
(2)	Assistant Department Head - Bracket 7
(3)	Blend Mixers (One per shift) - Bracket 5 (REGINA
ONLY)
(4)	Packaging Machine Operators - Bracket 2
(5)	Department Head; Assistant Department Head; Blend mixers and Packaging Machine Operators in the UHT Department will only be subject to lay-off as outlined in Article 7.01, if the next more senior Employee due to be laid off is then capable of performing the job, This means that the more senior Employee has the right to take over the job of the more junior Employee provided he has the necessary training and knowledge which will permit him to take over the position immediately without any further training.
(6)	The Company and the Union are agreed that pursuant to Article 6.01 of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, the Company has the exclusive right to determine the products to be handled, processed or manufactured in the UHT Department as in any other Department.
(7)	The Union agrees that should the production in the UHT Department fall below the following agreed standard:
Any six (6) month period compared to the same six (6) month period of 1988
(a)	THAT the UHT Department will cease to be a Recognized Department and the former UHT Department will immediately revert to its status prior to this Agreement.
(b)	THAT those individuals in the above noted Classifications will revert to General Plant Help and that the Blend Mixer Position will be removed from the Classification Program.
-PAGE-40
SIGNED THIS (i
i
S9f*
iw
-----	7?—
DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERA&E LIMITED
7
DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS UNION, LOCAL NO 834	/J
PR OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
AND:	DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
RE:	TEMPORARY POSITIONS AT REGINA BRANCH
(1)	In the event of an Employee taking an extended Leave of Absence, or being placed on Long Term Disability or Workers Compensation, a notice shall be placed on the Bulletin Board requesting Employees interested in filling the position on an interim basis to submit a Letter of Intent to the Branch Manager.
(2)	Such Letters of Intent to be considered by the Branch Manager in consultation with Union representatives.
(3)	The transition to the interim position to be made in such a manner as not to disrupt the normal operations of the Branch.
(4) The length of time of the original placing of the notice and the appointment being made shall follow the guidelines as set out in Article 8 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
(5)	The above procedure shall apply to all temporary positions and only Employees not holding bid or classified positions who are presently working or on layoff shall receive consideration for any such temporary positions.
SIGNED THIS _____ DAY OF _______________ , 1991.
-PAGE-42
Sr of understanding
BETWEEN:	DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
RE:	4 X 10 HOUR DAY PROGRAM
It is agreed that the following Departments may remain on a 4 x 10 hour day program in Regina Branch -
(a)	Ice cream Department
(b)	Milk Department - Exception will be the Juice Section,
which will swing from 4 x 10rS to 5 x 8's and reverse on a Two (2) week notice of system change in recognition of the uncertain volumes and nature of this business.
(c)	Cream Section
(d)	Driver Salesmen, Dock Drivers, Interbranch Drivers.
(e)	Bulk Tank Drivers.
(f)	Laboratory Technicians
(May be required to work 5 x 8/s)
(g)	Engineers (May be required to work 5 x 8's)
It is understood that the Garage Employees, Shipjni.g" Floor Employees and all other Service classifications not referred to above will remain on a ^ v H !■><■>”*■ enhaAiia	r\FF^ Employees who will
remain on a
SIGNED THIS
DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS UNION
-PAGE-43
^TTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
AND:	DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
The Company understands and agrees that the Union may introduce a Union counselling program at the Regina, Moose Jaw and Humboldt operations and agrees to consider such terms of reference and goals of the Program as are presented to the Company. ,
ibftLoAY OF	^
c/	f
SIGNED THIS
DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE	DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS UNION,
-PAGE-44
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
BETWEEN:	DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
AND:	DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
It is agreed between the parties that the wording of item 1. of the Memorandum of Agreement signed on December 3, 1990 is made "WITHOUT PREJUDICE" to either of the parties positions with regard to the "Nichols Arbitration and Court of Queen's Bench, Court of Appeal"
-PAGE-45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
COMMISSION—RATES - COUNTRY WHOLESALE DRIVER SALESMEN
Milk & Cream	2/3	cents	per	metric unit
Ice Cream-Bulk & Pkgs	1 cent	per	litre
Ice Cream Mix	1/2	cent	per	litre
Milkshake Mix	1/2	cent	per	litre
Novelties	2 cents per dozen
Butter or Bulk Butter hauling 1/4 cent per 454 grams
Frozen Foods
Poultry
Eggs
Cottage Cheese
II	II
II	II
Sour Cream
ii	ii
□ n
Yogourt
it
•I
Cheddar Cheese Dairy Blend Flavoured Drinks Beep Supplies
Interbranch & Dealer Hauling Cream Haul
2% of Dollar Value 2 cents per KG.
1/3 cent per dozen 1/2 cent per 250 ml
1	cent	per	500 ml
2	cents per Kg 1/2 cent per 250 ml
1	cent	per	500 ml
2	cents per Kg 1/2 cent per 250 ml
1	cent	per	500 ml
2	cents	per	Kg
2	cents	per	454 grams
1	cent	per	454 grams
1	cent	per	litre
1	cent	per	litre
3% of Dollar Value 1% Net Interbranch Value less Tax
5 cents per can gallon
COMMISSION RATES-CITY WHOLESALE ICE CREAM DRIVER SALESMEN
Ice Cream-Bulk & Pkgs
Ice Cream Mix
Milkshake Mix
Novelties
Frozen Foods-
Poultry
Supplies
Cheddar Cheese
Dairy Blend
Butter
Ice Packs
Cream Pick up Commission
1	cent per litre 1/2 cent per litre 1/2 cent per litre
2	cents per dozen
2% of Dollar Value *
.015 cents per 454 grams 3% of Dollar Value less Tax 2 cents	per	454	grams
3/4 cent	per	454	grams
3/4 cent	per	454	grams
2 cents each 5 cents	per	can	gallon
In the case of City Ice Cream Salesmen who solicit and place poultry and egg orders but do not deliver the actual products, a commission equal to one-half of the normal regular commission rate shall be paid on such sales.
-PAGE-46
In the case of Holiday Weekends when a Statutory Holiday falls on either a Monday or a Saturday resulting in no regular deliveries for two or more consecutive days, the City Ice Cream Salesmen shall receive full commission credit for products picked up at the dock by customers on their route.
SHIPPING DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES
Employees working a normal shift who are required to work after 8 P.M. shall be allowed $2.00 on each occasion to cover the cost of supper. Proper vouchers to be completed and approved by Plant
-PAGE-47
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
AND:	DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
Properly licensed shipping floor Employees who are required to take intercity or interbranch hauls (i.e. Weyburn, Yorkton, Swift Current) and drivers hauling loads between Regina and Moose Jaw will be paid a premium of ten ($10) dollars per week for any week in which such trips are made.	)
-PAGE-48
LETTER OP UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
AND:	DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
Commissioned Country Drivers will be required to load or unload their trucks without further payment of overtime, only in emergency situations. When requested to do such work in non-emergency situations, regular overtime will apply.
DAY OF
-----	/I
SIGNED THIS

DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
'DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS UNION, LOCAL NO 834

-PAGE-49
felTTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
AND:	DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
REi	DENTAL PLAN AND EXTENDED HEALTH PLAN
It is agreed between the Parties that the Company will introduce on April 1, 1992 the following Employee Benefit programs:
1)	EXTENDED HEALTH PLAN - which will be identical in content to the Extended Health Plan currently provided by the Co-operators and in place for the Employees of Manco Foods Inc.
2)	DENTAL PLAN COVERAGE - as follows
100% of Basic Services 60% of Major Restorative Services
50% of Orthodontic Services (children 18 and under)
($1,500.00 lifetime max per child)
$1,750.00 yearly maximum per family member Current year fee guide
3) Both the Extended Health Plan and the Dental Plan shall be completely Employer Paid.	/
-PAGE-50
TTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
AND:	DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
REi	VACATIONS - SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
The parties are agreed that vacation entitlements may be combined during a two year period under special circumstances as outlined below:
1) The Employee must make such request at least six (6) months in advance of the date he wishes to use such special vacation entitlements.
2) Such request must be for the use of vacations during the off season and such request must not cause undue hardship for the Company.
3)	In order to be paid vacation pay for the special vacation entitlement, the Employee must have earned the same at the time he. requests such pay. In the event that the Employee makes a request for an advance in vacation entitlement, he will be paid at his appropriate rate (3/52; 4/52; 5/52) for the amount of time worked from his anniversary date to the date he takes such special vacation
4)	The parties are agreed that the provisions of this Letter of Understanding will only be used for special circumstances and that the Company will approve any such requests in Head, Office
OF	-----
SIGNED THIS
DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED

Hu^ir^Resources Manager
Dairy AND PRODUCE WORKERS UNION,
-PAGE-51
:tter of understanding
BETWEEN:	DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
AND:	DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
REi	EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The parties are agreed that as a result of the recent collective bargaining between the Parties, that the Company will investigate the possibilities of implementing an EAP (Employee Assistance Program).
The Company has agreed that it will first resource the types and costs associated with the various types of EAP's in place in the Saskatchewan marketplace.
Once the Company has resourced this information, a Committee will be struck, consisting of the Company and representative(s) of each of the Unions representing the Employees of Dairy Producers Co-Operative Limited to review and assess such information.
The Committee will either agree, revise or amend such proposals for the implementation of an Employee Assistance Program and shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors of the Company for their
-PAGE-52
JTTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
AND:	DAIRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 834
REt PARKING RATES
It is agreed that the rate for Employee parking at the Regina Branch is $7.00 per month for five (5) months per Employee for serviced parking. This parking rate is inclusive of P.S.TJ. and G.S.T..
SIGNED THIS	AY OF L____________
DAIRY PRODUCERS CO-OPERlfaflVE LIMITED
ifalRY AND PRODUCE WORKERS UNION, LOCAL NO 834
Hthjwrfi/Resources Manager

-PAGE-53
an satisfies the minimum funding and solvency requirements of the Pension Benefits Act of Saskatchewan.
(V) The Plan and Trust will be created and operated so that it is registered under the Income Tax Act and any applicable Pension Benefits Act.
(vi) Inter-Plan Transfer Agreements may be effected with the Employer and any other Board of Trustees or Plan sponsor to and from which Employees, represented by the Unions may transfer. The provisions of any such agreement between the Pension Plan for the Unionized Employees of the Employer and the new Plan shall be mutually acceptable to the Employer, the Union and the Board of Trustees.
(vii) All Employees represented by the Unions shall be informed of the provisions of the new Plan.
(C) CONTRIBUTIONS
Commencing with and for the duration of the current Collective Agreements between the Unions and the Employer and any renewals or extensions thereof, it is agreed that the following contribution shall be made to the Plan and Trust:
(i)	by each participating Employee, 3% of all hours worked or paid based on regular rates of pay.
(ii)	by the Employer in respect of each participating Employee, 3% of total hours worked or paid based on regular rates of pay.
For purposes of (i) and (ii) above, earnings shall be regular, straight time earnings received by an Employee from the Employer (exclusive of commissions, bonuses, and any other special payments or taxable benefits). Contributions from the participating Employee shall be made by payroll deduction.
Contributions, along with a list of the Employees for whom they have been made (showing Employee and Employer amount separately) shall be provided by the Employer to the Trust Company, Plan Administrator or other financial institution designated by the Trustees to receive these and shall do so not later than twenty-one (21) days after the end of the Employer's normal 4-week, 5-week or monthly accounting periods. This listing shall be prepared in a form compatible with the Company's system and shall also show the amount of the voluntary contributions, if any.
If the provisions of the Plan allow for Employees to make voluntary contributions, the Employer shall co-operate by taking payroll deductions and, subject to such time limits as may be set by
-PAGE-55
ie Employer, in changing the amount deducted from time to time.
In the event the Employer fails to forward the prescribed contributions within the above-stated time limitation, the Employer shall be liable to pay interest on such contributions equal to 1% multiplied by the number of completed plus partial months from the date such contributions were due to the date they were paid.
(d) ADMINISTRATION
The Plan shall be administered by such organization, persons or entity as the Trustees shall decide. The Employer agrees that it shall provide such details and information about Employees covered under the Plan as are needed to create Plan records and administer the Plan and shall assist the Trustees as requested to ensure the proper and efficient operation of the Plan and Trust.
(2)	Existing Staff Pension Plan (Old Plan) as of May 31, 1991
With respect to the Old Plan as at May 31, 1991:
(a)	Each active and disabled Employee participating in it who is represented by the Unions shall cease doing so as of May 31, 1991.
(b)	Each retired Employee, joint annuitant or beneficiary thereof at May 31, 1991 where the Employee is or was a member of one of the Unions at his date of retirement shall be given the option to be transferred to the new Plan or have their pension benefit provided through the purchase of an immediate annuity contract.
(c)	All terminated vested Employees in the old Plan shall have their deferred pension benefit provided through the purchase of a deferred annuity contract.
(d)	As of December 31, 1991, all the assets of the old Plan, less the amounts required to purchase the annuity and deferred annuity contracts provided for in (b) and (c) above, shall be transferred to the new Plan and Trust. It is understood and agreed that the foregoing transfer of assets and liabilities from the old Plan to the new Plan shall be subject to approval by Revenue Canada Taxation and the Department of Pension for Saskatchewan and the parties hereto agree to take all necessary steps to secure such approvals at the earliest possible date. If the transfer of assets and liabilities is delayed beyond December 31, 1991, then it is agreed by the parties that the Employer and Trustees will make reasonable arrangements for the on-going operations of the old Plan.
(e)	It is agreed that the Employer shall not have any liability for the funding and or the benefits promised under the new Plan nor will the Employer have any liability for any pension benefits from the old Plan to any Union or any former member of the former Pension
-PAGE-56
—an for the Unionized Employees of Dairy Producers Co-Operative Limited. In consideration of this fact, the parties are agreed that release forms, to be drawn up by the Company' s Actuary and Legal counsel shall be signed as follows:
(i)	by the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union
(ii)	by the Chauffeurs, Teamsters and Helpers, Local 395
(iii)	by the Dairy & Produce Workers Union, Local 834
(iv)	by the United Food and Commercial Workers Union
(v)	by each Employee or former Employee (beneficiary or Joint Annuitant) or Terminated Vested Employee who's pension benefits are transferred from the former Plan to the new Plan or to any annuity cohtract.
(3)	COSTS
Costs incurred by the Employer to implement this Letter of Understanding shall be paid out of the assets to be transferred from the old Plan into the new Plan. Costs incurred in the creation of
PAGE-57