DAIRYWORLD FOODS AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this	day of
,1998.
BETWEEN:	DAIRYWORLD FOODS
6800 Lougheed Highway Burnaby, British Columbia V5A 1W2
(hereinafter referred to as the "Employer")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION No. 464
of the City of Vancouver Province of British Columbia affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH THAT the Parties hereto agree as follows:
1
2
2
2
2
3
3
3
5
6
7
11
12
12
14
14
14
18
18
21
23
25
26
26
27
27
27
27
28
28
30
36
40
INDEX
UNION SECURITY UNION ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES UNION NOTICES DEDUCTION OF DUES, ETC.
SHOP STEWARDS CONFLICTING AGREEMENT CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES MANAGEMENT RIGHTS WELFARE PLAN & PENSION PLAN COMPENSATION COVERAGE PAY DAYS PAY STATEMENTS
POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS
NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
NEW EMPLOYEES
SENIORITY - REDUCTION OF STAFF
- SEVERANCE PAY
EATING AND REST PERIOD
ANNUAL HOLIDAYS
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
(EXCLUDING BULK TANKER DRIVERS)
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT WORK CLOTHES JURY DUTY
PERIOD OF SUMMER SEASON PERFORMANCE OF DUTY WAGES
SAVINGS CLAUSE EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT SCHEDULES "A", "B", "C" and “D”
APPENDIX "A" AND "B"
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
1
CLAUSE 1
UNION SECURITY
1.01	All employees covered by this Agreement must become members of the Union within fourteen (14) calendar days of their commencing their employment hereunder. The Employer agrees to retain, in his employ, within the group covered by this Agreement, only members of the Union in good standing and to notify the Union within ten (10) days of any new employees hired or former employees returned to the payroll.
1.02	It is further agreed: That any person not a member of the Union shall not work at occupations which come under the Union's jurisdiction, except in cases of emergency and then only until a member of the Union can be placed on the job. Where this provision operates against the efficiency of the plant, the Union undertakes to consider exemption in any particular case put before it. In the event of failure to reach agreement, the matter will be submitted to Arbitration under the provisions of Clause 8, Section 8.03.
1.03	That the Union's jurisdiction shall be deemed to include the processing, manufacture, sale and/or distribution of dairy products or such other products as the Employer may from time to time process, manufacture, sell and/or distribute.
1.04	This Agreement shall cover all employees engaged in work coming within the Union's jurisdiction and whether employed at the Employer's address set forth above or employed elsewhere in the Province of British Columbia and there engaged in the sale or distribution of dairy or other products shipped or forwarded from the aforesaid places.
1.05	The selling and distribution of dairy products being recognized as work coming within the Union's jurisdiction such work must be performed by an employee of the Company whose products are being sold or distributed provided that selling and distribution may be carried on by such persons other than employees who were on March 8th, 1960, carrying on such selling and distribution, Sub-section
1.04	shall not be deemed to include sales representatives who are not employed in distribution or delivery.
1.06	Personnel above Route Foreman or Plant Foreman shall not be required to be members of the Union unless working within the Union's jurisdiction.
1.07	Wherever the male gender is used in this agreement, it will be understood to include the female gender.
CLAUSE 2
2
UNION ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES
2.01	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for upholding the Union's principles. No employee who serves on a committee shall lose his or her position nor be discriminated against for that reason. The Employer shall allow time off work to any man or woman who is serving on a committee or as a delegate, provided that all requests for time off are reasonable or do not interfere with the proper operation of the plants or routes, and provided that requests for such time off are made by officers of the Union.
CLAUSE 3
UNION NOTICES
3.01	The Company agrees to provide space which is readily accessible for the Union notices of direct interest to the Employees.
CLAUSE 4
DEDUCTION OF DUES ETC.
4.01	Each of the employees covered by this Agreement hereby authorizes the Employer to deduct and pay over to the Secretary of the Union, any monthly dues, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's by-laws, owing by him or her hereunder to the said Union, or as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. Monies shall be deducted in accordance with the written statement supplied in duplicate by the Union which shall show the total amount owing by each employee and the names of the employees for whom the deductions are to be made. Deductions of any monies owing shall also be made from any employees in the month in which they terminate. Monies deducted shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than the 10th day of the following month and shall be accompanied by a copy of the written statement supplied by the Union.
CLAUSE 5
SHOPSTEWARDS
5.01	There shall be a Shop Steward at each operation covered by this Agreement, if the Union so desires, to see whether the members of the Union and the Employer live up to the provisions of this Agreement and to report any infractions of such provisions and rules to the manager or supervisor, who shall promptly deal with same. Such shop steward shall be elected by the Union members in the shop concerned, failing which, a shop steward may be appointed by the
3
Union, and shall be an employee of the place in which he is a steward. There shall be no discrimination against the shop steward for Union activities.
5.02	The Shop Steward shall have no authority to alter, amend, violate or otherwise change any part of this Agreement. The Shop Steward shall report to the Union Officers any violation of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 6
CONFLICTING AGREEMENT
6.01	It is further agreed by the Employer that no Union member will be asked to make any written or verbal agreement conflicting with this Agreement. No Union member shall make any written or verbal agreement with the Employer conflicting with this Agreement.
CLAUSE 7
CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT
7.01	The Employer shall not require any member of the Union to cross a picket line which has not been declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction. The Employer shall not require any member of the Union to accept any product or goods from any person, or employees of any person, with whom the Union, Local 464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction, around or against, or to deliver any product or goods to any person or employees of any person with whom the Union, Local 464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction, around or against
7.02	It shall not be a violation of this Agreement or cause for dismissal for an employee to refuse to handle, receive, ship or transport any material or equipment affected by a labour dispute which has not been declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction.
CLAUSE 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	Any violation of this Agreement must be submitted as a written grievance within thirty (30) calendar days of the violation or be considered invalid unless, upon evidence of extenuating circumstances, the grievance procedure is authorized by the Executive Board of the Union.
8.02	Disputes or differences concerning the interpretation, application, operation or violation of this Agreement shall be subject to the time limits of Section (1) of this Clause and shall be resolved according to the following procedure:
4
(a)	The employee or the Union together with such person or persons as he or the Union may wish, shall make the matter up with the Employer.
(b)	Should a solution not be reached by step (a) then an Officer or Officers of the Union, accompanied by the employee, if he or they so wish, shall discuss the matter with the Employer. If a solution is reached this shall be final.
8.03	If the procedures set forth in (a) and (b) above do not result in a solution being reached within seven (7) days of the first discussion between an officer of the Union and a representative of the Employer, or within such further period by the Employer and the Union agree to in writing, the dispute shall be referred to Arbitration Board of three persons appointed as follows:
(a)	The Party desiring arbitration shall appoint a member for the Board and shall notify the other Party in writing of the name and address of the person so appointed and particulars of the matter in dispute.
(b)	The Party receiving the notice shall within five (5) days thereafter appoint a member for the Board and notify the other party of its Appointment.
(c)	The two Arbitrators so appointed shall confer to select a third person to be Chairman and failing for three days from the appointment of the second of them to agree upon a person willing to act, either of them may apply to the Honourable, The Minister of Labour, to appoint such third member.
(d)	On mutual agreement of the Parties, a single Arbitrator may be used to resolve any dispute.
8.04	The Arbitration Board shall sit, hear the Parties, settle the terms of the question to be arbitrated and make its award within ten (10) days from the date of the appointment of the Chairman, provided the time may be extended by agreement of the Parties.
The Arbitration Board shall have the power to determine whether a particular issue is arbitrable under this Agreement.
A majority award shall be the award of the Board.
8.05	If the Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure it is found) that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, the employee shall be re-instated by the Company without loss of pay and with all his rights, benefits and privileges which he would have enjoyed if the suspension or discharge had not taken place, or if an Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure it is found) that an ex-employee should have been rehired that ex-employee shall be employed by the Employer and paid all pay which he should have enjoyed and accorded all the rights, privileges
5
and benefits which he would have enjoyed if he had been hired at the proper time, provided that, if it is shown to the Board that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period between discharge and/or suspension and reinstatement or date of failure to re-hire and re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deducted from wages payable by the Employer pursuant to this Clause, less any expenses which the employee has incurred in order to earn the wages so deducted, AND PROVIDED THAT the Arbitration Board, if circumstances are established before it, which, in the opinion of the Arbitration Board, makes it just and equitable to do so, shall have the authority to order the Employer to pay less than the full amount of wages lost.
8.06	If the award of the Arbitration Board is subsequently set aside by a court of competent jurisdiction the question shall, at the request of either party, be submitted to another Arbitration Board appointed pursuant to and with all the powers provided in this Clause.
8.07	The expenses and remuneration of the Chairman shall be paid by the Parties in equal shares.
8.08	Without restricting the specific powers hereinbefore mentioned the Arbitration Board shall have all the general powers of an Arbitration Board.
CLAUSE 9
DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES
9.01	(a) All employees shall be given fourteen (14) calendar days' notice before
being laid off save those whose layoff is dictated by supply, exceptional weather conditions, or suspension of an operation for an unscheduled breakdown. A lay-off notice may be extended up to a maximum of four (4) calendar weeks before being renewed,
(b)	Employees shall give the Employer the same notice.
(c)	These provisions shall not apply to Part-Time, Summer Help and new employees still within their probationary employment period (as per Clause 18.01 (d) ).
9.02	Except for lay-offs pursuant to Clause 18 of this Agreement, no employee shall be discharged other than for proper cause.
9.03	The Employer reserves the right to discharge any employee, without notice, for any of the following causes:
1.	Dishonesty or Theft
2.	Drunkenness
3.	Refusal to obey a lawful order
4.	Absence without leave
6
5.	Drinking or consuming/taking intoxicating liquors or drugs during working hours including coffee and lunch break.
6.	Permitting unauthorized persons on vehicles provided "no riders” stickers are on vehicles.
7.	Willful abuse of sick leave privileges
8.	Impairment due to the improper use of drugs
9.	Willful abuse of company property
9.04	Any discharged employee may within 72 hours of his discharge, in writing, require the Employer to give him the reasons for his discharge and the Employer will give such reasons to him, in writing, within 72 hours of such request, and in the event of any dispute or difference as to whether or not there was proper cause for the discharge of an employee only the reasons so set forth in writing shall constitute cause.
9.05	If an employee is discharged or suspended for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, or, if an employee, laid off pursuant to Clause 18 of this Agreement is not re-hired and feels that he should have been re-hired, the dispute shall constitute a grievance if launched within fourteen (14) calendar days of the discharge or suspension, to be settled pursuant to the provisions of Clause 8 hereof.
9.06	The nature of a suspension; length of a suspension and the date of implementation of a suspension shall be provided to an employee in writing and the Union shall be so notified immediately.
9.07	All letters of warning or reprimand shall be removed from an employee's personnel file after a period of five (5) years provided no further disciplinary documentation is on file.
CLAUSE 10
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
10.01	The Employer shall have the exclusive right and power to manage the business and direct the working forces, including the right to hire; suspend for cause: discharge for cause; lay-off; promote; assign to jobs; transfer employees from department to department; to increase or decrease the working forces; to determine the products to be handled.
10.02	Nothing in this Agreement shall be intended or is to be construed in any way to interfere with the recognized right of the Employer to manage and control the business. It is further agreed that nothing in this Clause shall be used to discriminate against any employee of the Union, its members or its Executive.
10.03	Nothing in any of the provisions of this Clause shall in any way limit, void or affect the other provisions of this Agreement.
7
CLAUSE 11
WELFARE PLAN AND PENSION PLAN
11.01	Effective the first day of the month following 1,000 regular hours worked in a continuous twelve month period, the Employer shall provide a ‘Standard Form’ Welfare Plan for all employees covered by the Agreement (excluding those listed herein). The Employer agrees to facilitate but not administer the standard form Welfare Plan with the following benefits:
(a)	Life Insurance in the sum of $30,000.00 upon death from any cause whatever.
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment in the principal sum of $30 000.00 both occupational and non-occupational coverage, on the following schedule of losses:
NATURE OF LOSS
Life
The sight of both eyes Either both hands or both feet The sight of one eye and either one hand or one foot Both the thumb and index finger of one hand One hand or one foot or the sight of one eye
AMOUNT PAYABLE
The Principal Sum The Principal Sum The Principal Sum
The Principal Sum Quarter of the Principal Sum
Half of the Principal Sum
(c)	The following schedule of additional Life insurance shall apply to all employees with dependents. To a maximum of $45,000,00,
First dependent	- $30,000.00
Each additional dependent	- $ 7,500.00
(d)	Sick benefit covering all employees in the sum of 65% of the
employee's gross weekly base rate, for a period of fifty-two (52) weeks to become effective on the first day in the event of a non-compensable accident and on the fourth (4th) day of any sickness.
Notwithstanding the above, the weekly amounts payable shall be equivalent to or, greater than the amount payable under the Unemployment Insurance Commission Program.
8
In addition, any employee with over (7) years' seniority that is on weekly indemnity may, at his option, make up his benefit to full salary by using accumulated sick days to the maximum payable as per Clause 11.03 (b).
On presentation of a receipt from the Physician an employee shall be reimbursed up to ten (10) dollars for each Physician's statement completed in each sickness or accident period.
To apply for sick benefit an employee must obtain the appropriate Sick Benefit application forms from the Employer.
(e)	Extended Health Benefits Plan equivalent to the coverage provided by the Medical Services Association of British Columbia.
Medical Travel Insurance benefits as provided for in Appendix A (attached).
Additional coverage of $1,000,000.00 in out-of-province Medical Coverage.
(f)	Medical coverage and benefits equivalent to those provided by the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia.
(g)	A Dental Plan providing the following coverage:
100% payment for claims for Plan A (Basic Services).
75% payment of claims for Plan B (prosthetic appliances crown and bridge procedures).
50% payment of claims for Plan C (Orthodontics) to a maximum of $1,500.00 per life.
(h)	A Long Term Disability Plan providing a benefit of fifty (50) percent of an employees weekly base rate to commence after weekly indemnity ceases, payable to age 65. This benefit to be reduced by any amount payable by the Canada Pension Disability Plan. Provisions of LTD plan to include eligibility if employee is unable to perform duties of his/her own occupation for a period of two (2) years and/or the Employer is unable to provide a suitable job to the disabled employee. After two (2) years, the employee must be unable to perform the normal dudes of any occupation.
(i)	An Optical Plan to provide $150.00 of coverage each two year period applicable to each eligible person.
(j)	If an Employee is entitled to recover damages for loss of income from any government supported or crown agency as a result of personal injuries which are sustained by the employee and for which he is entitled to
9
receive benefits under the Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Insurance Benefit Provisions, the carrier will be subrogated to all the rights of recovery of the employee for loss of income to the extent of the sum of the benefits paid of payable to him under such provision.
The carrier may, in connection with its right of subrogation, require that the employee complete a Reimbursement Questionnaire and execute a Reimbursement Agreement. Should the employee not complete and return the required forms within 30 days of issuance, benefits will not be paid until such forms are completed and returned.
It is understood that legal fees in proportion to the wage loss settlement are excluded from subrogation.
11.02	The cost of the benefits contained in Clause 11.01 shall be borne 100% by the Employer. The employee's portion of the U.I.C. rebate shall be retained by the Company to offset benefit costs.
11.03	Sick Leave
(a)	Commencing the first of the month following completion of the
probationary period (Per Clause 18.01	(d)) all employees shall
accumulate paid sick leave at the rate of 2.9% to	a	maximum
accumulation of 54 hours per calendar year and 270 hours in total. For the purpose of this Clause, time lost on Weekly indemnity and Workers Compensation shall be included.
(b)	Where any absence occasioned by sickness or accident is not covered for payment by either the Sick Benefit (11.01 (d) of this Clause) or Compensation, employees shall draw on time so accumulated in the following manner:
First day of Absence	-	One Half (1/2) day's pay.
Second day of Absence	-	One Full day's pay.
Third day of Absence	-	One Full day's pay.
thereafter, the balance of accumulated Sick Leave to be applied and paid at the full daily rate for each day the employee’s absence exceeds fifty-two (52) weeks. Employees absent due to a worker’s compensable accident shall draw on accumulated sick leave to provide a full day's pay on the day of such accident.
The Employer may also request a report from a qualified medical practitioner for any illness of three (3) days or less if it appears that a pattern of absence is developing.
Employees with an existing accumulated balance of 270 hours shall receive full pay on the first day of absence.
10
(c)	It is mutually agreed, the maximum loss of pay up to the payment date of the sick benefit as per 11.01 (b) on account of absence due to sickness shall be one-half (1/2) day.
(d)	An employee who achieves perfect attendance by working the complete calendar year shall have the option of receiving a pay-out of fifty percent (50%) of his annually accrued sick time or accumulate such sick leave (54 hours) for purposes of 11.03 (b) above up to a maximum accumulation of 270 hours.
(e)	Perfect attendance excludes days lost due to Worker's Compensation and approved leaves for bereavement, jury duty and time not worked (e.g. vacation, statutory holiday).
11.04	Funeral Leave
In the event of death in the immediate family of an employee, the Company shall grant up to three (3) working days leave of absence with pay to make arrangements for and/or attend the funeral. The term "immediate family” shall mean spouse (including common-law spouse providing he or she is registered as a dependent under Clause11), parents, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, grandchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law.
11.05	Leave of Absence
Any regular full-time employee may request, in writing, a leave of absence without pay and benefits once every two (2) year period. Approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Application for leave must be made within fourteen (14) calendar days of the effective date (except under extraordinary circumstances). Further leaves may be granted for compassionate reasons only. The term of a leave of absence, period shall not exceed the employee's current vacation entitlement. If a leave of absence is used for purposes other than for reasons for which it has been granted, this will be cause for dismissal.
11.06	Pension
The Employer shall continue to participate in the operation of a jointly trusteed Pension Plan in accordance with Appendix "B" attached hereto which shall form part of this Agreement.
11.07	(a) When an employee goes off work ill or on compensation or grievance
procedure is invoked on his discharge, the Company shall continue to pay both his Welfare Fees and Union Dues so that at all times, the employee shall be protected to the utmost
(b)	To provide payment for the above mentioned welfare plans, union dues, savings bonds, life insurance and other benefits, an employee must leave sufficient funds with the Employer or pay, or have paid on his behalf, in advance, the monthly payment direct to the Employer.
11
(c)	For the purpose of this Clause only, any employee off ill or on Compensation shall be deemed to be on the payroll.
(d)	All working time lost by an employee due to completing driver's tests or doctor's examinations shall, provided such test or examinations are required by his Employer, be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee.
11.08	Exclusions
(a)	Employees (Summer Help) per Clause 27.02.
(b)	Part-time employees (per Clause 18.01 (b)) who do not work more than fifty percent (50%) of the standard work week for their classification. Parttime employees may elect to continue participation in the welfare benefit plan by providing payment of the monthly premiums, in advance, directly to the Employer.
(c)	Employees who are not actively at work and who are not in receipt of disability benefits, wage loss benefits or any form of compensation.
11.09	Any dispute arising out of the administration and/or adjudication of claims with respect to the Welfare Plan shall be with the individual Plan Administrator.
CLAUSE 12
COMPENSATION COVERAGE
12.01	When employees on compensation are directed by the Compensation Board or their physician that they may return to work, they shall be returned to their previous job and rate of pay for a period of two (2) weeks to see if they are capable of performing the job at the time of injury, and if so, shall be kept on the payroll.
In the event the previous job no longer exists, the employee shall be given a job of comparable nature subject to the provisions of Clause 18.
Notwithstanding the above, when an employee returns to work following compensation with any limitations on his ability to perform all functions of his job, the Employer reserves the right to obtain additional medical clarification.
CLAUSE 13
PAY DAYS
12
13.01	Employees shall be paid every second week by electronic deposit. Pay day shall be on Thursday when possible but not later than Friday. The amount paid shall include all sums owing by way of wages earned up to and including the Saturday previous.
13.02. All employees covered by this agreement shall receive an itemized statement of earnings on each pay day.
CLAUSE 14
PAY STATEMENTS
14.01	All employees will be given a statement showing the period for which the statement is issued, the base earnings, extra earnings such as Statutory Holiday pay, accumulated earnings to date, accumulated overtime hours, and an itemization of deductions. Premium pay and shift differential will show separately.
CLAUSE 15
POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS
15.01	POSTING OF VACANCIES
(a)	Permanent positions covered by this agreement which become vacant and are determined to be required, shall be posted on the notice board in each Company location, for a period of ninety-six (96) hours.
(b)	Advancement and transfers within the bargaining unit shall be based on seniority provided that ability and qualifications, relative to position requirements as determined by the Company are relatively equal.
(c)	Positions involving the acquisition of a higher level of skills and competencies, as determined by the Employer (e.g., Foreman, Pasteurizer, Utilityman, Daws operator, UFRO Operator, Cheesemaker, Buttermaker, Machine Operator, C.I.P. Operator, First Aid Attendant, etc.) shall be filled on the basis of ability and qualifications. Employees successful in filling vacancies for these classifications shall fulfill a non-mobility period of 24 months whereby they will not be accepted to other vacant positions.
(d)	There shall be a trial period not to exceed three calendar weeks during which the employee and/or Employer can determine if the successful applicant is suitable, failing which the applicant will revert to his former position. The trial period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Parties.
(e)	Employees will be restricted to a maximum of one (1) successful bid within any six (6) month period, unless the Company and the Union mutually agree otherwise.
13
(f)	Any employee desiring to change from one branch to another may make written application to do so and all such applications will be considered in conjunction with those submitted as above for any vacancy which occurs in the branch to which the transfer is requested.
(g)	Transfer requests may be submitted only during the periods of January 1 to January 15th and July 1st to July 15th of each year on the appropriate company form. All transfer requests become null and void as of December 31st of each year.
(h)	When an employee qualifies for Long Term Disability or is off on Workers Compensation in excess of twelve (12) months, the employee's position shall be reviewed with the Union and where it does not appear that the employee will return to work in the near future, the employee's position shall be posted. Should the employee subsequently return to employment, he shall be placed on the recall list in order of seniority.
(i)	Any employee unable to return to their previous position due to a "disabling condition” that has been medically certified to the satisfaction of the Company and the Union, he/she may be exempted from seniority restrictions on job postings.
15.02	MISCELLANEOUS
(a)	Any vacancy or promotion shall result in one posting plus a maximum of one other posting.
(b)	The results of all postings to be announced and the employees affected to be notified directly. A copy of such announcement will be sent to the Union office.
CLAUSE 16
NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
16.01	The Employer shall negotiate with the Union, the establishment of and the rate of wages to be paid for any classification of work other than those set forth in Schedules " A, "B", and "C".
16.02	In the event that the Employer and the Union can not reach agreement concerning any proposed classification of work either party may invoke the Grievance Procedure set forth in Clause 8 of this Contract. The rate established by mutual agreement or Arbitration shall be retroactive to the day the employee was assigned to such position.
CLAUSE 17
NEW EMPLOYEES
14
17.01	See Letter of Understanding Re: New Employees.
17.02	Experienced employees who terminate their employment with one Employer covered by Local 464 then go to work for another Employer (in the same capacity) shall be considered experienced and paid as such, provided the employee is not absent from the trade for a period exceeding six (6) months.
CLAUSE 18
SENIORITY - REDUCTION OF STAFF - SEVERANCE PAY
18.01	SENIORITY
(a)	Seniority is defined as the length of an employee's service with the Company, calculated as the elapsed time from the date he was first employed, unless his seniority was broken, in which event such calculation shall be from the date that he returned to work following the last break in his seniority.
(b)	There shall be two separate seniority lists. Such lists shall be supplied to the Union by the Employer on January 15th and July 15th of each year and shall include all employees covered by this Agreement who have completed their probationary period.
The first list shall cover all employees other than part-time employees, and shall show the name, classification and date of employment of each employee.
The second list shall cover all part-time employees (those employees employed in a non-posted position and who may work less than the standard work week for the job classification) and shall show the name, classification and date of employment of each employee.
(c)	Seniority service shall not be considered broken by reason of:
1.	Absence on leave when granted mutually by the Company and the Union.
2.	Absence due to temporary lay off, providing the employee is available for work on the date of being recalled in the order of his Company seniority.
3.	Sickness or injury.
(d)	A probationary period of 1000 regular hours worked shall apply in the case of each new employee during which seniority shall not apply and upon completion of the probationary period seniority shall commence from the date of hire.
(e)	Seniority service shall be considered broken by reason of:
15
1.	An employee with more that 10 years of service will lose his seniority and cease to be an employee in the case of lay-off or a period of 18 months.
2.	An employee with less than 10 years of service will lose his seniority and cease to be an employee in the case of a lay-off for a period of 12 months.
3.	It is understood that if the employee is not recalled from lay-off for an aggregate of more than 52 shifts from the last day of lay-off then the employee's period of lay-off shall be considered not to have been interrupted.
(f)	Summer Help Employees
The Company may employ Summer Help employees under the following
conditions:
1.	To supplement the regular work force and provide additional help, during the period April 1st to September 15th.
2.	These employees will not displace full-time employees.
3.	Each such employee shall, as a condition of continuing employment, pay for those months in which the employee has earnings, Union Dues in accordance with Clause 4 of this Agreement.
4.	Summer Help employees under the condition of "1” above, shall not:
(a)	accrue seniority rights;
(b)	be entitled to benefits normally granted other employees;
(c)	be guaranteed a minimum number of hours per week.
5.	These employees will be employed under the classification and at wage rates as stipulated in Schedule "A".
18.02	LAYOFF AND RECALL
For the purposes of this section the Company shall be divided into the following regions and locations:
COMPANY
Region 1
(Lower Mainland)
Region 2
(Island)
Region 3
(North)
Region 4
(Interior)
16
Annacis
Abbotsford
Courtenay	Prince George Armstrong
Victoria
18.03	PERMANENT LAY-OFFS
(a)	In the event that the Company anticipates the permanent lay-off of employees of more than thirty 30 days, which may be extended by mutual agreement, due to shortage of work, manpower reduction or technological changes, it is intended that the following procedures shall be followed:
(b)	The situation will be discussed with the Union so that as much notice as possible can be given any employee that may be affected.
It is agreed and understood that in consideration of the terms and options available to employees described in this section, written notice to the Union shall be deemed to satisfy any requirements under the Employment Standards Act.
(c)	It is intended that employees be laid off in reverse order of Company seniority as follows:
(i)	Seasonal workers
(ii)	Probationary workers
(iii)	Regular employees
(d)	Where there is more than one employee working in the same job classification, lay-offs will be in reverse order of Company seniority in the:
(i)	classification;
(ii)	in the department;
(iii)	in the region;
(iv)	in the Company.
(e)	When an employee is provided notice of lay-off, the employee shall first be given the option of displacing the most junior employee in the: department location>region>company; provided the employee to be laid off has the required 'ability and qualification' or is able to perform the job within a reasonable period of time.
(f)	It is agreed and understood that an employee cannot bump into a position that he cannot post into, based on the position requirements.
(g)	Where the employee to be laid off is not qualified to displace the junior employee, or if the laid off employee elects not to displace the junior employee, the laid off employee shall have the option of receiving Severance or being
17
placed on the Recall List (on the condition that he remains readily available to accept assignments as required.)
(h)	The election of the employee must be made upon receipt of the notice of lay-off (within 48 hours) and cannot be changed by the employee.
(i)	Where practical, employees on lay-off (excluding probationary employees) will be recalled for assignments in order of their seniority provided they are available at the time the assignment is scheduled and are qualified and able to perform the assigned work in a satisfactory manner.
(j)	Employees on recall will be eligible for applicable Company benefits provided they work a minimum of 50% of regular working hours in the previous period (reviewed quarterly). Where the employee does not qualify for benefits under this provision he has the option of pre-paying these benefits.
18.04	SEVERANCE PAY
(a)	Severance pay shall apply to all employees save for summer help.
(b)	An employee who is permanently laid off due to the discontinuance of an operation shall be eligible to receive severance pay as follows:
Severance pay shall accrue at the rate of two (2) weeks of pay for each year of service commencing with the fifth (5th) year of service but shall not exceed a total of thirty (30) weeks of pay.
(c)	Senior employees in a department affected by the provisions of Clause 18.03 who would not otherwise lose their employment may select to voluntarily terminate their employment and be paid severance pay on the basis of one (1) week pay for each year of service to a maximum of twenty (20) years of service. The number of employees eligible for severance under this voluntary provision shall be determined by the Company each year.
18.05	Temporary Lay-Offs
(a)	If the Company anticipates that lay-offs will be for a temporary period (less than thirty (30) days), employees will be laid off in reverse order of Company seniority in their department.
(b)	In this case, it is intended that employees only be permitted to bump junior employees in the location or region where practical and provided that there is no disruption to the efficiency of the operation (e.g. minimal training).
(c)	Where possible, it is intended that the Company provide a minimum of 24 hours notice of temporary lay-off.
CLAUSE 19
18
EATING AND REST PERIOD
19.01	No employees shall be worked longer than five (5) hours without a half hour off for the purpose of eating a meal (except when working a twelve hour shift).
19.02	All employees shall be entitled to a ten minute break in the forenoon and afternoon, without loss of pay.
19.03	All employees shall be entitled to a paid ten (10) minute break immediately following the standard shift if overtime in excess of one (1) additional hour is anticipated.
CLAUSE 20
ANNUAL HOLIDAYS
20.01	Employees, save for summer help who may, because of the seasonal nature of the work, be employed in such a manner as to be subject to short periods of layoff, shall accumulate working time in successive years toward holiday schedule and shall receive pro-rated holiday pay depending on the number of months worked.
20.02	All employees with one (1) year or more service shall receive two (2) weeks off with full pay or 4% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with two (2) years or more service shall receive three (3) weeks off with full pay or 6% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with seven (7) years or more service shall receive four (4) weeks off with full pay or 8% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with fourteen (14) years or more service shall receive five (5) weeks off with full pay or 10% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with eighteen (18) years or more service shall receive six (6) weeks off with full pay or 12% of their annual earnings,	whichever	is	the	greater.	All
employees with twenty-five (25) years or	more	service	shall	receive	seven	(7)
weeks off with full pay or 14% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater, provided however, that any employee off ill, or on compensation shall be given an annual holiday credit of:
(a)	2 months if entitled to two weeks
(b)	3 months if entitled to three weeks
1	year worked
2	years worked 7 years worked 14 years worked 18 years worked 25 years worked
2	weeks holiday or 4% holiday pay
3	weeks holiday or 6% holiday pay
4	weeks holiday or 8% holiday pay
5	weeks holiday or 10% holiday pay
6	weeks holiday or 12% holiday pay
7	weeks holiday or 14% holiday pay
19
(c)	4	months	if entitled to	four weeks
(d)	5	months	if entitled to	five weeks
(e)	6	months	if entitled to	six weeks
(f)	7	months	if entitled to	seven weeks
in addition to all time worked during the year, provided further the sum of time credited and time worked does not exceed one (1) year, and provided such employee worked for his regular Employer during some part of the year.
20.03	Two weeks of these annual holidays, unless the employees entitled to same have, on their first selection, elected to take all or any portion of their annual holidays within the months of October to April inclusive, shall be given the employees entitled to same in the months May to September inclusive. All employees in each group shall be given the opportunity to choose their holiday dates in order of their Company seniority, i.e. length of service. Choice of holidays under each holiday reliefman or wherever possible without reference to the holiday reliefman, shall be as nearly proportionate as possible in terms of Company seniority. Annual holidays will constitute fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days off provided the days of annual holidays within the fourteen consecutive days does not exceed the employee's entitlement to holiday.
All periods of the year, save for December 24th to January 2nd at Abbotsford production department and the week immediately preceding Christmas for Wholesale, shall be available for holidays and shall be posted.
20.04	All employees entitled to more than two (2) weeks holiday may select all or any portion of their holiday entitlement in one continuous period providing they take their holidays in the months October to April inclusive.
Vacation schedules for the summer period will be posted by January 31 and all vacation selections must be completed by April 1st. It is the employee's responsibility to sign up for holidays by this time, otherwise more junior employees may have first choice or holidays may be refused during this time slot.
Employees taking all their holidays within the winter schedule shall indicate the period desired and shall be given same on the basis of their Company seniority.
20.05	Any employee requesting holidays during the months May to September inclusive shall, at their option, receive two (2) weeks in one continuous period. Employees entitled to five (5) weeks or more of annual holidays requesting annual holidays during the months May to September inclusive may receive, at their option three (3) weeks in one continuous period. The remainder of the holidays to which such employee is entitled shall be given during the months October to April inclusive.
Vacation schedules for the winter period will be posted by June 15th and all vacation selections must be completed by September 1st. It is the employee's responsibility to sign up for holidays by this time, otherwise more junior
20
employees may have first choice or holidays may be refused during this time slot.
20.06	(a) In the event the application of holiday selection as outlined above results in single weeks left open on the holiday schedule, an employee may select one of the single weeks on his or her first choice.
This selection of one week in the summer period shall constitute that employee's entire first, second or third choice with any further holiday entitlement being selected from available time in order of seniority.
(b) Should available time remain open on a holiday schedule after all employees covered by the schedule have made their first selection, the employees shall have the option of making additional summer period selections in order of Company seniority.
These additional selections, if any, shall be for one (1) week periods only and shall in no way limit the selections in order of Company seniority on the winter schedule.
20.07	The completed list of holiday periods for the months May to September inclusive shall be posted by January 31st and completed by April 1st of each year, and must also show the dates chosen by employees electing to take holidays in the months October to April inclusive. The completed list of holiday periods for the months October to April inclusive shall be posted by June 15th and completed by September 1st of each year.
20.08	All accumulated paid time off owing for the previous twelve (12) month period ending March 31st may be selected in order of Company seniority in the same fashion as Annual Holidays and taken during the months of October to April inclusive.
20.09	Each employee shall be entitled to thirty (30) days advance notice of any change of the dates of his annual holidays from the date shown in the completed lists of holiday periods provided such change is occasioned by anything other than accident or illness, or unless such change is mutually agreeable to the parties involved.
st
20.10	It is recognized that Dairyworld Foods uses April 1 as a common anniversary date for computing vacation pay and entitlement.
20.11	All part-time employees shall have their vacation paid out on a bi-weekly basis.
CLAUSE 21
21
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
21.01	All employees, save for Summer Help shall receive ten (10) Statutory Holidays and all holidays proclaimed by either the Federal or the Provincial Government with full pay during the year. The Statutory Holidays shall be:
New Year's Day	Dominion Day	ThanksgivingDay
Good Friday	B.C. Day	Remembrance Day
Empire Day	Labour Day	Christmas Day
Boxing Day
21.02	All employees shall receive one (1) additional Statutory Holiday with full pay to be given at a mutually agreed upon date for each employee.
This provision shall not apply to:
(a)	Employees whose term of employment does not exceed the probationary period (per Clause 18.01 (d)).
(b)	Employees (Summer Help) whose term of employment does not exceed the period April 1st, to September 15th, inclusive.
21.03	Each employee shall be entitled to seven (7) days advance notice prior to receiving Statutory Holidays.
21.04	Each employee shall be entitled to four (4) days advance notice prior to cancellation of Statutory Holidays. Any Statutory Holiday cancelled with less than four (4) days advance notice shall accrue at the rate of two (2) days for each day so cancelled.
21.05	Statutory Holidays shall not be given in advance save by mutual consent of the Employer and the employee.
21.06	Whenever possible, time off for Statutory Holidays will be given on the day of the Statutory Holiday but when this is nor possible any one required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall be paid at double time rate for that day, plus one time will be accrued. Accrued days off shall be tied to regular days off and given to those entitled to same in the months October to April inclusive. Any Statutory Holidays as of April 30th each year for the previous calendar year, shall be paid for in cash in the following pay period at the rate of double time. No wholesale or retail routes shall go out on Christmas Day.
The Employer will post a list of time available during which Statutory Holidays owing may be taken. This time may be selected and will be awarded on the basis of seniority; any remaining time available will be assigned in reverse order of seniority.
22
21.07	Part-time employees shall receive, in the Month of April of each year, payment of Statutory Holidays as per Clause 21.01 prorated according to the number of hours worked in the previous twelve month period.
It is agreed that should the number of Statutory Holidays be increased by the Federal or Provincial Government the prorated payment will be based on the increased number.
21.08	An employee shall be entitled to a paid day off for each such Statutory Holiday even if it falls on his weekly days off or time off taken in lieu thereof or on his annual vacation.
21.09	Each permanent employee shall be entitled to a Statutory Holiday even when he or she is off through illness, quarantine, compensation or lay-off, providing he or she is not absent for a period exceeding thirty (30) working days immediately prior to the Statutory Holiday. This payment will represent the difference between compensation or sick leave payment and his/her regular pay for that day.
23
CLAUSE 22
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
22.01 (a)
(b)
22.02 (a) (b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
The basic work week shall be thirty-six (36) hours or forty (40) hour as determined by the Company and the work day shall be nine (9) hours or ten (10) hours except where such other hours may be determined as per the Letter of Understanding Re: Hours of Work.
The basic work week for part-time employees and students shall be either 36 or 40 hours per week as determined by the Company and based on any combination of hours per day.
All time worked in excess of the regular scheduled daily shift shall be paid at double the regular rate of pay.
Overtime may be taken, at the employee's option, in money or in time off at a mutually agreed upon date. Employees will make their written declaration once per contract year by the declaration date as to the method of overtime payment. New employees will make their written declaration at time of hire.
Employees may accumulate overtime to provide up to a maximum of two (2) weeks in time off in a calendar year.
No employee shall be required to work longer than five(5) hours overtime in any one week provided however:
(i)	Hours worked on days off are not included.
(ii)	Shifts must be completed as required
(iii)	Overtime resulting from start up of new equipment not included.
There shall be a minimum break of ten (10) hours between regular scheduled shifts, excluding overtime. There shall be no split shifts.
All sums earned by way of overtime shall be paid for in the pay period following that in which they earned. All premium and overtime pay shall be calculated on the classified base rate.
All overtime pay will be calculated on the base hourly rate and will not include any shift differential and/or premium pay. All overtime will be paid out or taken as time off by April 30th following the calendar year in which it is earned.
When an employee is called to work on any of his days off he shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay or pay at the overtime rates for all time worked, whichever is the greater.
24
(i)	New or inexperienced driver salesmen shall be excluded from the
	overtime provisions of this Clause for a period of five (5) calendar weeks from the date of assignment of the learning of the route, provided such overtime is not occasioned by: (i)	Mechanical breakdown (ii)	Delays or conditions of overtime not attributable to said Driver Salesman.
22.03	All employees (excluding Bulk Tanker Drivers) working a four (4) or (5) day week shall receive at least two (2) consecutive days off each week. For purposes of this Clause, consecutive days off on Saturday and Sunday are in compliance.
22.04 (a)	A schedule of time off shall be posted so that all employees (excluding Utilityman, Trainees and Bulk Tanker Drivers) shall have at least seven (7) days advance notice of days off. Any employee required to work on any of his days off shall be paid at double time for all hours worked.
(b)	Any Statutory Holiday accumulated as a result in change of days off shall be tied to the employee's consecutive days off.
22.05 Employees (excluding Utilityman, Trainees and Bulk Tanker Drivers) shall receive twenty-four (24) hours notice for change of shifts except for the following reasons:
(i)	Short notice absenteeism of other employees.
(ii)	Reasons as outlined under Clause 9.01 (a).
22.06 (a)	Effective January 1, 1999 Company seniority shall be a determining factor in the selection of days off and corresponding block of shifts to be worked as determined by the Company. The Employer shall retain the right at all times to see that the required number of experienced employees is available on each shift, to ensure proper and efficient operations. If the person with the most seniority is away then the next most senior person has first option of that shift providing it becomes necessary to replace the most senior person with other than general relief personnel. The provisions of this Clause shall not apply to employees in the classification of Utilityman and Trainee.
(b)	Experienced workers regularly working a full shift who are directed to another shift by the Employer shall be guaranteed a full shift's pay.
22.07 Employees shall receive a ten (10) minute break in the forenoon and afternoon.
25
22.08	All drivers must submit upon completion of his shift, a completed and properly identified tachometer or recorder card from all vehicles equipped with recording devices.
22.09	All drivers shall not be deemed to have completed his days work until he has completed all duties and additional deliveries if any required of him by the Company, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, until he has unloaded his truck, checked his truck, refueled and checked oil and coolant levels, balance his daily load sheet or other record of goods supplied and sales made, completed any other necessary records, and attended at any meeting or interview called by the Company.
It is understood that employees may be temporarily re-assigned to other duties during their shift as required provided it does not displace an employee on the job.
22.10	Should a dispute arise in respect to the time taken to complete a route or routes, no driver or route foreman shall be subject to any change in status until the Union has investigated the route or routes involved by sending an Agent of the Union along with the employee involved in the dispute or an appointee of the Company.
22.11	There shall be a route selection by seniority in the event of any significant departmental reorganization.
22.12	In the event a Bulk Tanker Driver completes his work in less than eight (8) hours, nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, in any one day, he shall be deemed to have worked a full shift on that day.
22.13	All Bulk Tanker Drivers shall be entitled to one-half (1/2) hour for lunch during the unloading period. This one-half (1/2) hour period shall be calculated as part of the regular work shift.
CLAUSE 23
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
23.01	This Clause shall apply to all employees excluding janitors. Any employee working a daily shift starting between 12 noon and 12 midnight shall receive an extra 750 per hour for all hours worked during the shift.
23.02	Any employee commencing a daily shift before 6:00 a.m. shall receive an extra 750 per hour for all hours worked prior to 8:00 a.m.
26
23.03	Clause 23 does not apply to Summer Help.
CLAUSE 24
UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT
24.01	Employment - Other Classifications - When an employee is required to fill the place of another employee receiving a higher rate of pay, if only for a day or the greater part of a day, he shall receive the higher rate, but if he is required to fill temporarily, the place of another employee, receiving a lower rate, his rate will not be changed to the lower rate.
This provision shall not apply when due to lack of work an employee may be reclassified.
24.02	Combination of Classifications (Seasonal or otherwise) - All employees shall be employed in a manner conforming to the listed classifications.
It is recognized that the nature of an operation or the season of the year may render it necessary to combine two or more classifications.
Any employee affected by the combining of his classification with any other classification or with work performed under the classification of Dairyworker shall be paid at the highest rate of the combined classifications.
CLAUSE 25
WORK CLOTHES
25.01	All inside employees shall be provided with (at no cost to them) clean uniforms, coveralls or smocks, whichever is applicable, as well as gloves, to those requiring same. These clean clothes will be supplied no less than once a week and shall be Union made and Union serviced.
25.02	The Company shall provide each driver with a clean uniform at least once per week. These uniforms shall be Union made and Union serviced.
25.03	The Company shall provide suitable protective clothing to all employees required to work in the cold room, at no cost to the employee.
The Company shall provide a suitable warm coat to all Driver Salesmen working in or out of cold hold trucks.
25.04	All clothing and uniforms to be supplied and/or serviced by a company under contract to a Teamster Local Union, provided the rates are competitive.
CLAUSE 26
27
JURY DUTY
26.01	All working time lost by an employee due to necessary attendance on Jury Duty or any court proceedings arising out of his employment shall be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee.
26.02	Any employee on Jury Duty shall, subject to this provision, make himself available for work before or after being required for such duty, wherever practicable. All jury duty pay or witness fees received by the employee from the courts shall be reimbursed to the Employer.
CLAUSE 27
PERIOD OF SUMMER SEASON
27.01	The summer season shall be defined as the time of year between and including the 1st of April and the 15th of September.
27.02	Employees employed specifically for the period defined in Section 27.01, shall be classed as summer help and paid at the rate applicable, it being understood that any employee working at a classified occupation shall be paid the classified rate whilst so employed, subject to the provisions of Clause 17.01.
CLAUSE 28
PERFORMANCE OF DUTY
28.01	Each employee, while on duty, shall devote the whole of his time, attention and energies to the performance of his duties and, shall not, during the term of his employment at any time, alone, in partnership or in association, be connected with or concerned in any other business directly or indirectly connected with the milk business.
CLAUSE 29 WAGES
29.01	The Employer shall pay wages to every employee covered by this Agreement at the rates set forth in Schedules "A", "B" and "C", hereunto annexed in respect to the various classifications of work therein contained.
28
Schedules "A", "B", "C" and “D” shall be deemed to be contained in and form part of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 30
SAVINGS CLAUSE
30.01	The within Agreement and schedules hereto annexed shall be subject to, and shall be interpreted, and, where necessary altered, varied, or amended from time to time to give effect to the laws enacted by the Parliament of Canada and Province of British Columbia, including amendments thereto and regulations or orders-in-council made or passed thereunder.
30.02	In the event that any Clause or Section is held invalid or enforcement of or compliance with which has been restrained, as above set forth, the Parties affected, thereby shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations, upon the request of either Party for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such Clause or Section during the period of invalidity or restraint. If the Parties do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement, they shall submit the dispute to the procedure as outlined in Cause 8.
30.03	It is clearly understood however, that the Agreement or any Sections thereof, which are not held invalid or restrained, shall continue in effect for the balance of the Collective Agreement.
CLAUSE 31
EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT
31.01	This agreement shall be in effect from April 1, 1996 to March 31, 2003 and from year to year thereafter, unless notice of abrogation or amendment shall be given by either Party in writing within four (4) months prior to the anniversary date hereof, in any year.
All provisions of this agreement, shall be fully retroactive to April 1, 1996, except where otherwise noted.
31.02	This Agreement voids all previous agreements or letters of understanding which in any way alters the terms and conditions contained herein.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Party of the First Part has hereunto affixed its seal in the presence of its Officers duly authorized therefor and the Party of the Second Part as hereunto affixed its signatures by its Officers duly authorized therefor.
29
DATED AT	, British Columbia, this day	of	, 1998
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
30
SCHEDULE "A"
The following wages shall be paid:
PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT ETC.
CLASSIFICATION	WAGES PER HOUR
April 1, 1998 (Adjusted Rate)
A.	Foreman	$23.84	$21.46
	D.A.W.S.	$23.65	$21.29
	Utilityman	$23.64	$21.28
B.	Pasteurizer Class l	$22.90	$20.61
	Ice Cream Maker	$22.90	$20.61
	Cheddar Cheesemaker	$22.90	$20.61
	Cottage Cheesemaker	$22.90	$20.61
	Buttermaker	$22.90	$20.61
	Tetra Operator	$22.72	$20.45
C.	Shipper and/or Dispatcher	$22.55	$20.30
	Pasteurizer Class ll	$22.55	$20.30
	Evaporator Operator (Delair)	$22.55	$20.30
	Sterilizer Operator (Delair)	$22.55	$20.30
	Standardizer Operator (Delair)	$22.55	$20.30
D.	Filler Machine Operator (Fluid)	$22.22	$20.00
	Assistant Shipper	$22.22	$20.00
	Yogurt Machine Operator	$22.22	$20.00
	C.I.P. Operator	$22.22	$20.00
	Ice Cream Machine Operator	$22.22	$20.00
	Lineman Operator (Delair)	$22.22	$20.00
31
SCHEDULE "A" (cont’d)
E.	Print Machine Operator	$22.22
Cottage Cheese/Sour Cream	Operator	$22.22
Creamer Operator	$22.22
Checker and/or Loader (Fluid)	$22.22
Checker and/or Loader (Ice Cream)	$22.22
Dairyworker	$21.98
Packager	$22.16
Night Watchman	$21.98
Janitor	$12.36
General Yard Clean Up	$10.30
and Pallet repair
F.	Summer Help	$10.30
Checker/Loader	$10.30
Dairyworker	$10.30
Packager	$10.30
General and Holiday relief shall receive $.50 per hour worked.
$20.00
$20.00
$20.00
$20.00
$20.00
$19.78
$19.94
$19.78
$11.12
$9.27
$9.27
$9.27
$9.27
$9.27
First Aid Premium:
Any employee required to be a First Aid Attendant shall be paid a premium for the necessary first aid certificates as follows:
Level 2 - $.70 per hour Level 1 - $.50 per hour
SCHEDULE "B"
32
WHOLESALE SALESMEN AND DRIVERS
CLASSIFICATION	WAGES PER HOUR April 1, 1998	(Adjusted
Driver Salesman	$22.55	$20.30
Driver Salesman (Semi-Trailer)	$22.95	$20.66
Driver Salesman (Combination)	$22.76	$20.48
Driver Salesman (Combination Semi-Trailer)	$23.15	$20.84
Route Relief	$23.14	$20.83
Holiday Relief	$23.49	$21.14
Route Foreman	$23.84	$21.46
Semi-Trailer Driver	$22.74	$20.47
Train Driver	$22.98	$20.68
Tank Driver	$22.68	$20.41
Truck Driver	$22.13	$19.92
33
SCHEDULE "C"
RETAIL DRIVER SALESMEN
CLASSIFICATION	WAGES PER HOUR April 1, 1998	(Adjusted Rate)
Retail Driver Salesman	$22.45	$20.21
Route Relief	$23.04	$20.74
Holiday Relief	$23.39	$21.05
Route Foreman	$23.74	$21.10
34
MAINTENANCE
CLASSIFICATION
Chargehand
Leadhand
Journeyman
Partsman
Trade Helper
General Helper
Partsman Chargehand
STOCKROOM & STORES
Shipper/Receiver Chargehand
Shipper/Receiver
Supplies Clerk
Assistant Shipper/Receiver
Dairyworker
SCHEDULE "D"
WAGES PER HOUR
April 1, 1998
$26.78
$25.57
$25.17
$24.13
$22.59
$22.11
$24.72
$23.58
$22.59
$22.59
$22.46
$22.11
(Adjusted Rate) $24.10 $23.01 $22.65 $21.72 $20.33 $19.90 $22.25
$21.22
$20.33
$20.33
$20.21
$19.90
General and Holiday Relief shall receive $.50 per hour worked.
35
GROUP 1
GROUP 2 GROUP 3
GROUP 4 GROUP 5 GROUP 6
Group
1
2
3
4
5
OFFICE &TECHNICAL EMPLOYEES SCHEDULE "A"
Data Entry	Seasonal/Casual
Branch/Junior Clerk
But/UHT	Secretary l
Cashier	Inventory Control l
Office Clerk l Mail/Utility
Rec/Switchboard l
Garage ClerkCust. Home Service l
Route Acctg.
Cust. Service ll Prod. Control
Ipas Inventory File Clerk
Hol. Rel. clerk
Service l Dist. Clerk
Jr. Accountant Home Service ll Accts. Payable
Public Assist.
Cash Poster Keypunch Oper. Data Entry
Ipas
Inventory Control ll
Office Clerk llSecretary ll	G.O.D. Clerk Prod. Asst.
Members Acctg. Dist. Clerk	Daws/Shipping Intermed. Acct.
Branches/General Clerk
Computer Operator
Start	Step 1 6 Months (936 hours)	Step 2 12 Months (1872 hours)	Step 3 18 Months (2808 hours)	Standard 24 months (3744 hours)
	EFFECTIVE April 1, 1998			
$11.62	$12.34	$13.07	$13.79	$14.52
$12.42	$13.19	$13.97	$14.74	$15.52
$13.18	$14.01	$14.83	$15.66	$16.48
$13.85	$14.71	$15.58	$16.44	$17.31
$14.26	$15.16	$16.05	$16.94	$17.83
$16.30	$17.31	$18.33	$19.35	$20.37
6
36
OFFICE &TECHNICAL EMPLOYEES (cont’d)
Group	Start	Step 1 6 Months (936 hours)	Step 2 12 Months (1872 hours) Adjusted Rate	Step 3 18 Months (2808 hours)	Standard 24 months (3744 hours)
1	$10.46	$11.11	$11.76	$12.42	$13.07
2	$11.18	$11.88	$12.57	$13.27	$13.97
3	$11.87	$12.61	$13.35	$14.09	$14.83
4	$12.46	$13.24	$14.02	$14.80	$15.58
5	$12.84	$13.64	$14.45	$15.25	$16.05
6	$14.66	$15.58	$16.50	$17.41	$18.33
37
SCHEDULE"B"
GROUP 7 Quality Tech
Start	Step 1 6 Months (936 hours)	Step 2 12 Months (1872 hours)	Step 3 Step 4 18 Months 24 months (2808 hours) (3744 hours)	Step 5 30 months (4680 hours)	Standard 36 months (5616 hours)
		EFFECTIVE April 1, 1998			
$17.95	$18.70	$19.44	$20.19 $20.94	$21.68	$22.43
			Adjusted Rate		
$16.15	$16.82	$17.50	$18.17 $18.84	$19.52	$20.19
38
GENERAL WAGE ADJUSTMENT
Effective: April 1, 1998	$250.00 Lump sum payment for current employees
April 1, 1999	$250.00 Lump sum payment for current employees
April 1,2000	1.5% provided the Company’s 1999 Budget Target is achieved, otherwise a $500.00 lump sum payment for current employees.
April 1,2001	2.0% provided the Company’s 2000 Budget Target is achieved, otherwise a $500.00 lump sum payment for current employees.
April1,2002	2.0% provided the Company’s 2001 Budget Target is achieved, otherwise a $500.00 lump sum payment for current employees.
39
APPENDIX "A"
MEDICAL TRAVEL INSURANCE
st
Effective on the first (1 ) day of the month following the completion of the probationary period (as per Clause 18.01 (d)) provision for the following benefits shall be available for member employees and their registered dependents resident in the Province of British Columbia:
A.	Where in the opinion of the attending physician treating a member employee and/or his registered dependents, adequate treatment is not available locally, transportation by scheduled air or rail will be provided to and from the nearest locale equipped to provide the required and recommended treatment by a physician and surgeon within two months of referral but said transportation will not be provided to points beyond Vancouver, B.C.
B.	Where necessary, and at the request of the attending physician, provision for transportation of an attendant in connection with the aforementioned transportation of any employee or his registered dependents.
C.	Also, where transportation has been provided to the nearest locale where adequate facilities are available, provision for assistance regarding accommodation limited to commercial facilities for patient and/or attendant, before and after medical treatment and which shall be limited to a total of seven (7) days at a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day.
D.	It is agreed that the maximum allowable claim by an individual covered by the above provisions shall be limited to two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) per eligible person each two year period.
40
APPENDIX "B"
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION No. 464 JOINTLY TRUSTEED PENSION PLAN
FOR
ALL OF ITS MEMBERS EMPLOYED AT DAIRYWORLD FOODS
I.	OPERATION OF THE JOINTLY TRUSTEED PLAN
This plan to be operated pursuant to the Collective Agreement on the following basis:
(a)	The Plan will be operated by a Board of Trustees. Such Trustees and their successors shall be responsible for the administration and operation of the Plan and Fund and shall have all powers necessary to create, amend or terminate the Plan and Fund consistent with the terms of the Collective Agreement in effect from time to time. Each Trustee shall have one vote.
(b)	The Trustees shall select a Chairman and a Secretary. These persons shall not have a casting vote on any matters under consideration by the Trustees.
(c)	The Trustees shall meet and shall decide on the type and form of the Pension Plan and may employ legal counsel, actuaries and other consultants or advisors as they deem necessary or advisable.
(d)	The Trustees shall have the exclusive right to determine the provisions of the Plan and the benefits provided thereunder from time to time and the use of all contributions plus investment earnings thereon received by the Plan. These shall be used only for the benefit of employees on whose behalf contributions are or have been made to the Plan and to meet necessary Plan expenses.
(e)	The Employer and the Union shall enter into a Trust Agreement with the Trustees. The Trust Agreement shall provide that in the event that the Trustees are deadlocked on any issue concerning the Plan or Fund the matter shall be submitted for arbitration by a mutually agreeable party or failing mutual agreement on an arbitrator by a Judge appointed by the Supreme Court of British Columbia.
(f)	The Employers shall from time to time provide all information which is required for the administration of the Plan and shall assist and co-operate in the Plan's administration. Reasonable assistance rendered by the Employers shall be rendered without charge to the Trustees.
41
(g)	The Trustees shall establish a Trust Account into which contributions shall be paid pending execution of the Trust Agreement and establishment of the Plan.
(h)	The Plan shall not require the Employer to guarantee the benefits or assure the solvency of the Fund and further that all costs of establishing the Plan and all costs of operation and administration (except as provided in (f) above) shall be paid from the assets of the Plan.
(i)	The Trustees may effect arrangements with the Employers and other Trustees of pension plans to permit reciprocal inter-plan transfers.
(j)	The Trust Agreement shall permit the Trustees, in certain events and upon certain conditions to transfer the assets and liabilities to another Board of Trustees provided such transfer shall not adversely affect the benefits or rights of the members of the Plan.
(k)	The Employer and employee shall each be required to make payments to the Pension Trust Fund as herein set forth. Such contributions shall be for each employee working in a job classification covered by the Collective Agreement.
Effective January 1, 1997 the following cost sharing pension schedule shall be implemented:
Employer	Employee
January 1, 1997	9%	1%
January 1, 1998	8%	2%
January 1, 1999	7%	3%
January 1, 2000	6%	4%
January 1, 2001	5%	5%
The gross earnings of an employee shall be the sum of his regular earnings, overtime, shift differential premiums and any other earnings payable to the employee in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
It is understood that contributions shall be payable in respect to the earnings of employees from the first day following achievement of benefit status whether said employees are permanent, temporary, or seasonal or full-time or part-time-employees and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union.
Contributions along with a list of employees for whom they have been made and the amount of contribution in respect to each employee and his earnings shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Custodian of the assets of the Plan designated by the Trustees. A copy of the list of employees shall also be mailed to the Administrator of the Plan.
Such payment shall be made to the Custodian for each pay period not later than twenty-one (21) days after the end of each pay period. The Employer shall also submit to the Plan Administrator within ninety (90) days following the end of each plan year a listing of all employees who were covered by the Plan during
42
such plan year showing, for each, the earnings upon which the Employer's and employee’s contributions were based during the plan year. Copies of all the listings shall also be forwarded if required to the Union. These listings shall also contain such other information as the Plan Administrator and Actuary may require for the operation of the Plan.
(l)	It is intended that the Plan and Trust Fund shall be such that the Plan can be registered under the provisions of the Income Tax Act of Canada and any other applicable Federal or Provincial law respecting employee Pension Plans.
43
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING HOURS OF WORK
The Parties acknowledge alternate work week arrangements may be necessary in order to ensure the efficient operation of particular departments and satisfy customer requirements.
In support of this understanding the Union agrees to give full consideration to bona fide requests for alternate work week arrangements (e.g. 12 hours per day) for a particular department, work group or individual throughout the term of the Collective Agreement.
It is intended that any request for alternate shift arrangements must be submitted in writing to the Union in order to ensure proper documentation and consideration.
DATED AT	, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
PARTY OF FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
44
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING OVERTIME ACCUMULATION
The Parties hereby agree that in those operations (i.e. Armstrong, Abbotsford, Annacis) subject to temporary shut down and lay-off, employees may accumulate up to a maximum of four weeks in time off in a calendar year, provided two of those weeks are used during the period of temporary lay-off.
Any portion of the additional two weeks accumulated not used during the period of temporary lay-off shall be cashed out.
DATED AT	, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
PARTY OF FIRST PART	PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING EDUCATION & INDUSTRY ENHANCEMENT FUND
Effective February 1, 1997,the Company shall remit ten cents (100) per hour worked on behalf of all benefit rated employees (as per Clause 11) to the Teamsters Local 464 Education & Industry Enhancement Fund. This provision, however, is not renewable and upon expiry of the new Collective Agreement, the Employer may discontinue payment upon six (6) months written notice.
DATED AT
, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
PARTY OF FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
46
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: LAY-OFF CALL-IN PROCEDURES: LOWER MAINLAND OPERATIONS
In order to recognize seniority and facilitate the efficient lay-off and call-in of employees
within the "Lower Mainland Operations”, the following terms shall be effective.
1.	Article 18.03 (g) is amended so that an employee who accepts lay-off from the plant or operation, shall be placed on the Lower Mainland Lay-off List on the understanding he or she remains available to accept assignments as required, in accordance with the "Guidelines covering Laid-Off Employees”, as established by the Employer.
2.	Laid-off employee may apply in accordance with the job posting procedure for any subsequent job posting that may arise based on Company seniority.
3.	(a) It is intended that the Employer will schedule employees for call-in the
following week based on available information as of noon each Thursday.
(b)	Where practical, employees on lay-off will generally be called in to Lower Mainland assignments in order of Company seniority provided they are "available at the time the assignment is scheduled” and are capable of performing the assigned work in a manner that is satisfactory, as determined by the Employer.
(c)	Where an employee’s assignment is concluded prior to completing the assigned work that week, he/she will be placed back on the lay-off list and be eligible for further assignments in accordance with 3 (b).
4.	It is agreed by the Employer that the "assignment and scheduling” of laid-off employees will be made in "good faith”.
5.	It is agreed by the Union that except in the absence of "good faith”, grievances of either an individual or policy nature will not be applicable.
6.	It is understood by the Parties that nothing in this Letter of Understanding will prevent the Employer from utilizing or assigning employees with specific skills (e.g. Class 1 Drivers license) in a manner deemed necessary by the Employer.
7.	Employees who have previously achieved benefit status and are subsequently laid-off and subject to recall shall:
i) Receive credits as days worked for time lost due to scheduled holidays, compensable accidents (W.C.B.) or maternity leave (for the purpose of this Clause only) and,
47
ii) Have the option of continuing without interruption their basic medical (M.S.P.) by paying the monthly premium.
8.	Scheduling of Time Off:
(a)	Part-time and laid off employees shall receive Vacation Pay as per Clause 20.10 and Statutory Holiday Pay as per Clause 21.07 of the Collective Agreement.
(b)	The scheduling of time off for vacation must be done in advance through the employee’s supervisor.
DATED AT
, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
PARTY OF FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING SPECIAL EARLY RETIREMENT PROGRAM (SERP)
(a)	Special early retirement shall be available throughout the term of this collective agreement to all regular employees who will be age fifty-seven (57) (by December 31st each year).
(b)	A monthly bridge payment shall be provided equal to the differences in accrued pension and normal pension to age sixty-four (64).
(c)	A retiring allowance shall be provided equal to one weeks pay for each year of service to a maximum of twenty (20) years of service.
(d)	Core benefits (medical, dental and extended health) shall continue to age sixty-five (65).
(e)	The Company shall determine and advise the Union of the maximum number of special early retirement opportunities each year.
DATED AT	, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
PARTY OF FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
49
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
ENABLING PROCEDURE
In the event issues arise during the term of the collective agreement relating to current labour relations practices, and/or new business opportunities which may affect employment opportunities, then the following procedure shall apply:
1.	The Parties shall submit their differences to mediation/arbitration.
2.	The mediator/arbitrator shall be Vincent L. Ready, or at his direction, Colin Taylor.
3.	The procedure for dealing with these issues shall be as follows:
(a)	The Parties will meet in advance and reach agreement on the facts of the dispute ("Statement of Agreed Facts”).
(b)	Any disagreement on the Statement of Agreed Facts shall be submitted for resolution to Mr. Ready, or at his direction, to Mr. Colin Taylor.
(c)	The Statement of Agreed Facts shall be submitted to the named mediator/arbitrator.
(d)	In considering his arbitration award, the said, named mediator/arbitrator shall consider:
(i)	The Company's economic position in the industry;
(ii)	Comparable employment terms and conditions within the industry.
(e)	The said, named mediator/arbitrator may examine any records and hear such evidence as he deems relevant.
(f)	The decision of the mediator/arbitrator shall be final and binding and there shall be no appeal therefrom.
DATED AT	, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
PARTY OF FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
TECHNOLOGY/EMPLOYEE INTERFACE and WORK TEAMS
The Parties recognize the changing nature of work in the Company's Dairy operations as it relates to the interface between technology and employee skill requirements.
The Parties agree that as a result of this changing interface and the evolution towards 'work teams' that are responsible for the productivity of assigned work centres, employees in each team will be expected to develop skills that will improve the technology/employee interface.
It is, therefore, understood and agreed that employees in 'work teams' will receive training and be responsible for basic applications relating to programming, PLC's, technological adjustments and equipment monitoring and control.
It is further understood and agreed that these evolving requirements are reflected in the wage schedule and that the Collective Agreement and Certification will be amended where necessary to reflect these changes.
DATED AT	, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
PARTY OF FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
51
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CLERICAL AND OFFICE EMPLOYEES
In the event the Company elects to establish a central Administrative Office in British
Columbia, the Parties agree to either initiate the 'enabling procedure' in the Collective
Agreement or to renegotiate the Office & Technical Agreement on the following terms:
1.	Compensation (wages, benefits, premiums, hours of work, etc.) will take into consideration those provided to Alberta office employees.
2.	It is agreed that the Bargaining Unit for office employees will apply only to office and clerical employees as determined by the Company and shall not include: sales personnel, corporate office employees or currently excluded positions (e.g. Payroll).
3.	The Union agrees to grant exclusions as determined by the Company provided the exclusions do not result in a substantive alteration of the Bargaining Unit.
DATED AT
, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
PARTY OF FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
52
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING SCHEDULES "A, B, C, D"
The Parties agree to meet and restructure the classifications contained within the Collective Agreement so as to reflect the changing nature of work and "work teams” (e.g. machine operator and technician).
DATED AT
, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
PARTY OF FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
53
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
NEW EMPLOYEES
Pursuant to the terms and conditions contained at page 13 of Mr. Vincent L. Ready's Mediation/Arbitration Award of January 10, 1997, the Parties agree to delete those terms and conditions and replace them with the following:
Effective June 1, 1998 all new employees (excluding students and/or summer help) hired hereafter shall be subject to the following:
1.	Wage rates shall be set in accordance with the new wage schedule.
2.	New employees shall receive:
75% of the classified rate for the first 2080 regular hours worked 80% of the	classified rate	for	the next	2080	regular hours worked
85% of the	classified rate	for	the next	2080	regular hours worked
90% of the	classified rate	for	the next	2080	regular hours worked
95% of the	classified rate	for	the next	2080	regular hours worked
100% of the classified rate thereafter
3.	New employees shall be eligible for benefits and pension after 2080 regular hours worked. The Employer shall be required to pay the cost of all benefits. Pension contributions shall be in accordance with the main agreement.
4.	Shift premiums shall be in accordance with the main agreement.
5.	The hours of work shall be in accordance with the main agreement.
DATED AT	, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
PARTY OF FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE-STRUCTURING ADJUSTMENT PLAN (R.A.P.)
Effective June 1, 1998 an employee affected by re-structuring changes within the Company shall be provided with the following options:
(a)	Lay-off and/or bumping in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
(b)	"Regular Severance” in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
(c)	Special Early Retirement Program (SERP) in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
(d)	Accept a payment calculated in accordance with the "voluntary severance” provisions and a transfer in accordance with his/her seniority. Such employee shall retain his/her Company seniority for lay-off and recall but shall be treated as a new employee except that his/her new wage rate shall be fixed at eighty percent (80%) of the new classified rate during the term of the agreement. This provision is applicable to full-time posted employees only.
The Company reserves the right to limit the number of employees under section (d) and/or to ensure that the application of this section is due to re-structuring. The Company also reserves the right to approve "exit dates” in accordance with operational requirements.
DATED AT	, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
PARTY OF FIRST PART	PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
55
EMPLOYEE TRAINING
The Company and Union agree to meet on a regular basis for the purposes of assessing the need for training and development of employees.
Wherever possible, as specific training opportunities and needs are identified, the Company will, from time to time, post a notice of such opportunities in order to solicit interested employees.
In selecting employees for training, preference will first be given to those employees who are interested and available at the time the training is offered and who would be available to apply this training in future assignments.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company reserves the right to assign training as required.
Where practical, part-time and laid off employees will generally be called in to Lower Mainland assignments in order of Company seniority provided they are "available at the time the assignment is scheduled” and are capable of performing the assigned work in a manner that is satisfactory, as determined by the Employer.
DATED AT
, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
PARTY OF FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
56
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NATIONAL BENEFITS PLAN
In order that the Company may efficiently control its cost of benefits, the Union agrees to support the Company’s move to a National Benefits Plan recognizing that in doing so certain adjustments to the benefit levels may be necessary provided that such changes are not substantive.
DATED AT	, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
PARTY OF FIRST PART	PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
57
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING PAY OUT OF SICK LEAVE
Eligible employees who are entitled to accumulated sick days owing as at January 1, 1999 shall have such accumulated sick leave accrual frozen, converted to the current dollar equivalent and will to be entitled to a pay out of their accumulated sick pay upon termination as per the following:
Upon termination of employment for any reason other than just cause, an employee having completed:
7 years of service will receive 33% of accumulated sick leave owing.
14 years of service will receive 66% of accumulated sick leave owing.
18 years of service will receive 100% of accumulated sick leave, up to a maximum of 270 hours.
DATED AT
British Columbia, this day of
, 1998.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
58
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SENIORITY - REDUCTION OF STAFF (OFFICE & TECHNICAL AGREEMENT)
Effective June 1, 1998, the following amendments shall apply to Clause 18 of the Office & Technical Agreement:
18.03	Seniority - Reduction of Staff
(c) The basic principle in applying lay-off to any regular employee shall be on the basis of Company seniority provided the employee is qualified and suitable to perform the position requirements.
18.04	Bumping and Recall Rights
(a)	Any full-time employee who is subject to lay-off under the terms of the Agreement may bump the least senior employee form an equivalent or lower level job on the following basis:
(i)	the least senior employee in the same job position within the department, thereafter, the least senior employee in the same job position within the district;
then
(ii)	the least senior employee in the district provided the employee is qualified and capable to perform the position requirements within a two (2) week period;
then
(iii)	a less senior employee in a higher level job subject to the approval of the Company.
DATED AT	British Columbia, this day of	, 1998.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
59
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN: DAIRYWORLD FOODS AND TEAMSTERS LOCAL 464
RE: REGISTERED DISTRIBUTION OPERATORS (RDO'S)
The terms and conditions contained in this Letter are intended to apply to persons working as registered Distribution Operators (RDO's) in the Province of British Columbia.
PART 1 GENERAL
1.	The purpose of this letter is to establish Registered Distribution Operators (RDO's) in the province of British Columbia.
2.	Any person who desires to become a RDO shall be required to make formal application and satisfy the 'eligibility criteria' as determined by the Company. These criteria shall include but not be limited to general suitability and financial qualifications.
3.	The number and type of Territories, "purchase price/rental fee” shall be at the sole discretion of the Company.
4.	Under this arrangement, RDO's receive the right to sell Company provided, approved products within a specific geographic territory and/or to specific customers. The Company shall make available sufficient products and shall provide Sales, Marketing and other support services.
5.	(a) Products supplied to RDO's will be at ‘net price’ (with a specified sale
price) such that RDO's will receive a 'commission or ‘fee for service’ on the sale of each unit.
(b)	Other forms of remuneration may be applied at the discretion of the Company (drop charge, transportation fee, storage fee, etc.)
(c)	All RDO's are responsible for the cost of returns under their control.
6.	RDO's may be required to use the Company's automated billing and accounting system. The Company will carry the accounts receivable.
7.	RDO's who have 'purchased territories' may sell or terminate their arrangement upon six (6) months written notice to the Company. The Company shall have the first opportunity to purchase back the territory, for market value (less any outstanding monies owing the Company). Notwithstanding, the Company maintains its' right to pre-qualify and approve all potential purchasers and operators.
60
8.	RDO's are expected to adhere to the reasonable directives and guidelines set by the Company. This shall include responsibility for vehicle parking, hook-ups and loading.
9.	The Company may terminate without notice any RDO for 'just cause' or nonperformance of responsibilities and purchase back the territory at its 'original purchase price' or 'rental fee' less any outstanding monies owing.
10.	RDO's are responsible for obtaining proper 'business insurance', registration, W.C.B. coverage and for maintaining vehicles in a safe operating condition. In the event of a breakdown, the Company will attempt to provide a spare vehicle at a specified charge to the operator.
11.	RDO's are intended to be covered solely by the terms of this letter and a RDO Agreement and must remain members in good standing of Teamsters, Local 464. Union dues shall be deducted by the Company and remitted to the Union.
12.	All statutory deductions (i.e., CPP, WCB, Income Tax) are the responsibility of the employee.
13.	All RDO's will be required to enter into a standard form 'RDO Agreement' and shall form part of a separate unit covered by this Letter of Intent.
PART 2: CURRENT DISTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES
1.	Current distribution employees satisfying the eligibility criteria may apply for available Territories.
2.	Territories will be offered to present employees for a nominal annual rental fee in the case of rental territories and a preferential purchase price in the case of purchase territories.
The Company will offer severance and payback terms (repayment over 10 years) to employees who purchase or rent a territory as consideration for separation from their current position.
3.	Where the Company requires that RDO's provide their own vehicle, it shall provide present employees with the option of purchasing vehicles for their current market value. The Company shall facilitate the purchase by arranging for a common bank contact.
4.	The Company shall continue to pay for the Welfare Benefits for present distribution employees who become RDO's for a period of twelve (12) months based on the current hourly rate to a maximum of thirty-six (36) hours per week. Thereafter, present employees may purchase basic Welfare (medical, dental, extended health, life insurance) benefits by paying the cost of these benefits.
PART 3: NEW REGISTERED DISTRIBUTION OPERATORS:
61
1.	The general conditions under Part I of the Letter of Intent shall apply to new RDO's.
2.	A new RDO shall have the option of purchasing Welfare Benefits by directly paying the applicable plan premiums.
It is intended that the terms and conditions contained in this Letter of Understanding apply to RDO's and shall take precedent over the Collective Agreement.
DATED AT	, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
For the Company	For the Union
62
ADDENDUM: RE DEPENDANT OPERATORS (To Master Agreement)
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 464, of the City of Vancouver, Province of British Columbia, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.
-and-
DAIRYWORLD FOODS LTD. (British Columbia)
ARTICLE 1: Recognition & Scope
The Company recognized the Union as the sole bargaining agent for all dependant Operators who have executed a Company Operations Agreement, within the Province of British Columbia. Operators are defined as dependant Owner/Operators owning or renting the distribution rights to a sales territory in accordance with the Operations Agreement and do not include their employees (if any).
This Addendum is not intended to apply to independent operators and customers or to force distributors to become members of the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 2: Management Rights
2.01 The Union recognizes and acknowledges that the management of the Company's business is fixed exclusively with the Company unless expressly restricted by this Addendum.
2.02	This Addendum shall only prevail over Individual Operator Agreement(s) where expressly stated. The individual Operator Agreement(s) remain in effect and are not rendered invalid or unenforceable because of the existence of this Addendum.
The Letters of Understanding that are attached to this Addendum are intended to form
part	of this Addendum and Include:	
1.	Letter of Intent -	Home Service
2.	Letter of Understanding -	Registered Distribution Operators (R.D.O.'s) for Interior, Island and North Regions
3.	Letter of Understanding -	Registered Distribution Operators (R.D.O.'s) Lower Mainland
4.	Letter of Understanding -	Line Haul Operators (L.H.O.'s)
63
The terms and conditions contained in this Addendum along with the attached Letters
of Understanding and Operators Agreement form the Agreement between the Parties
in its entirety and it is understood that no part of the master collective agreement or any
other Letters of Understanding apply unless specifically referenced in this Addendum.
ARTICLE 3: Strikes and Lock-outs
3.01	During the term of this Agreement, the Company will not cause or direct any lock-out of Operators nor will the Union cause or direct, nor will the Operators participate in any strike or other collective action which would stop or interfere with service or impair efficiency of operations. If such collective action should be taken, the Union will ensure that Operators promptly return to work and perform their duties in the usual manner.
ARTICLE 4: Union Security and Representation
4.01	All Operators covered by Article 1 - Recognition and Scope, shall have Union dues deducted each month in an amount as may be prescribed by the Union from time to time, and which dues shall be remitted to the Union on a monthly basis by the 20th day of the following month. New Operators will be required to pay an initiation fee. All Operators who have executed a Company Operations Agreement shall become and remain members of the Union.
4.02	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from any and all claims for the amounts deducted and remitted under the terms of this Article.
ARTICLE 5: Dispute Resolution Procedure
5.01	It is the mutual desire of the Parties hereto that formal complaints of Operators shall be addressed as quickly as possible without interference with any work.
5.02	A formal 'Complaint' shall be defined for purposes of this Addendum as a disagreement regarding the interpretation, application or alleged violation of the terms and provisions of this Addendum, Letter of Understanding or Operators Agreement and shall be processed as set out below:
Step 1
The Operator and/or Union shall submit a signed, dated and written statement of such Complaint to the Company no later than five (5) working days from the time the Complaint first arose. The Complaint must set out the nature of any alleged breach of this Addendum, Letter of Understanding, or Operator Agreement along with the remedy sought to resolve the matter, failing which such Complaint shall be deemed to be abandoned. The Company may respond in writing within five (5) working days of the date of receipt of such Complaint, failing which the Complaint may automatically be taken to Step 2 by the Operator and/or the Union.
Step 2
64
If the Complaint has not been resolved at Step 1 or if the Operator has not received a satisfactory response, the Operator and/or the Union shall request a meeting with local management no later that five (5) working days after the expiry of the time limits for the Company's response as set out in Step 1. If such meeting is requested, local management will conduct such meeting within five (5) working days of the request.
5.03	If final settlement of the Complaint is not reached at Step 2, the Union shall notify local management in writing, within three (3) working days after the expiry of the time limits for the Company's response set out in Step 2, of its desire to refer such Complaint to arbitration. The Union shall in turn refer the complaint to arbitration within fifteen (15) working days of such notification. Failure to provide such notification to local management or to refer the Complaint within the specified time limits shall result in the Complaint being deemed to have been abandoned.
5.04	Should the Company choose to file a Complaint alleging that the Union has violated, misapplied or misinterpreted this Addendum, Letter of Understanding or Operator Agreement, the Company shall provide the Union and/or Operator with such Complaint within five (5) working days from the time the difference arose and shall request a meeting with the appropriate union officers within five (5) working days from the filing of such Complaint. If such Complaint is not resolved at that meeting, the Company shall provide written notice within five (5) working days of the scheduled date of such meeting of its intention to refer the Complaint to arbitration. The Company shall in turn refer the Complaint to arbitration within fifteen (15) working days of such notification. Failure to provide such notification shall result in the Complaint being deemed to have been abandoned.
5.05	Time limits specified in this Dispute Resolution Procedure are mandatory. The Parties hereto also agree that the time limits specific in the Dispute Resolution Procedure may only be extended by mutual agreement, in writing between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 6: Arbitration
6.01	Where a Complaint is referred to arbitration in accordance with the requirements of Article 5, such complaint shall be heard by a 3 person arbitration panel unless the Parties otherwise agree. It is understood and agreed that the Parties' nominees will make their selection of such chairman based on mutual agreement. If no actual agreement is reached, either party may request the Minister of Labour to appoint a Chairman.
6.02	An arbitration panel shall not have jurisdiction to amend, alter, modify or add to any of the provisions of the Addendum, Letter of Understanding or Operations Agreement, nor to substitute any new provision in lieu thereof, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Addendum, Letter of Understanding or Operator Agreement.
65
6.03	Each of the Parties hereto will equally share the fees and expenses of the Chairman. Each party shall pay its own costs otherwise.
6.04	Arbitrations shall be heard at a location agreeable to the Parties involved.
ARTICLE 7: Termination of Distributor's Individual Agreement
7.01	An Operator whose Operator's Agreement has been terminated may file a formal complaint in accordance with Article 6 herein that his Operators Agreement was not terminated in accordance with the Individual Operator Agreement. No right to complain under Article 6 will arise in any instance where written notice in accordance with the individual Operator Agreement has been provided to the Operator.
7.02	The Operator is entitled to request the presence of one (1) union representative at any meeting where such Operator is given written notice of breach of Individual Operator Agreement. Non-compliance with this entitlement shall not result in the written notice of breach being null and void.
ARTICLE 8: Duration
8.01 This agreement shall be in effect for the same term as the master Collective Agreement (Clause 31).
DATED AT	, British Columbia,	this day of	,1998.
For the Company
For the Union