COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION No. 464
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNI ON No. 464
and
ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES
island
.FARMS,
APRIL 1, 2000 - DECEMBFr
ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 23rd day of December, 2002
BETWEEN:
ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
P,0, Box 38 Victoria, B.C.
V8W 2M1
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 464,
Of the City of Vancouver,
Province of-British Columbia* - -Affiliated vith the International Brot^rhood, of Teamsters. ,
(Hereinafterreferred to as the "Unioh'1)
OF THE SECOND
WITNESSETH THAT the Parties hereto agree as follows:
I

INDEX
MUTUAL OBJECTIVES
PAGE
NUMBER
4
9
9
10
DEFINITIONS
CLAUSE 1 UNION SECURITY CLAUSE 2 UNION REPRESENTATIVES AND NOTICES
CLAUSE 3 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS CLAUSE 4 DEDUCTION OF DUES, ETC.
CLAUSE 5 SHOP STEWARDS CLAUSE 6 CONFLICTING AGREEMENT CLAUSE 7 CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND 10 RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT
CLAUSE 8 GRIEVANCE AND ARBHRATION
PROCEDURE	11
CLAUSE 9 DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES	15
CLAUSE 10 LEAVES OF ABSENCE	17
CLAUSE 11 WELFARE PLAN AND PENSION PLAN 19
CLAUSE 12 COMPENSATION COVERAGE AND 24 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
CLAUSE 13 PAYDAYS CLAUSE 14 PAY STATEMENTS CLAUSE 15 POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS
CLAUSE 16 NEW CLASSIFICATIONS CLAUSE 17 LOSS OF WAGES CLAUSE 18 NEW EMPLOYEES
26
26
27
33
33
33
CLAUSE 19
CLAUSE 20 CLAUSE 21 CLAUSE 22 CLAUSE 23 CLAUSE 24
CLAUSE 25 CLAUSE 26 CLAUSE 27 CLAUSE 28
CLAUSE 29 CLAUSE 30 CLAUSE 31 CLAUSE 32
PAGE
NUMBER
SENIORITY - REDUCTION OF STAFF - 34 SEVERANCE PAY
MINIMUM PAY	45
EATING AND REST PERIOD	45
ANNUAL VACATION	45
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	54
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND 56 OVERTIME INSIDE EMPLOYEES AND DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER/SALESMEN)
SHET DIFFERENTIAL AND PREMIUM 62
UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT WORK CLOTHES
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME, DRIVER/SALESMEN (Wholesale)
PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES WAGES
EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT SAVINGS CLAUSE
WAGE SCHEDULES "A", "B", "C", "D" AND "E"
63
64
65
68
68
68
71
PART-HME SCHEDULE "F"	76
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING	78
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT	86
APPENDIX "A"
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 464 DAIRY	90
INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN (VANCOUVER ISLAND DIVISION)
3
MUTUAL OBJECTIVES
The objectives of this Agreement are to maintain a harmonious and co-operative relationship between the Company, its employees and Teamsters Union Local 464; to promote the utmost co-operation consistent with the express rights of the Parties to this Agreement; to foster a friendly spirit between the Parties; to allow effective and efficient operation of the Company's business to ensure its financial health, subject to the provisions of this Agreement; to provide an amicable and equitable method of settling grievances or differences arising from the provisions of this Agreement and to maintain mutually satisfactory working conditions, hours of work and wages for all employees, subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
Consistent with Section 53 of the Labour Relations Code of B.C., the Parties agree to develop a Joint Union-Management Committee for the purpose of meeting to discuss issues which affect the relationship between the Parties and the mutual objectives of the Parties. The Parties will meet on a regular basis or as requested by either Party and, consistent with the terms of reference developed and agreed by the Parties, will work cooperatively to resolve issues placed before the Committee for their consideration.
4
DEFINITIONS
Company Seniority: The length of service within the bargaining unit from their date of hire.
Classification: Thejob or category ofjobs performed for which a rate of pay is established and listed in the Schedule(s) to the Collective Agreement.
Full-Time Employee: An employee who has been awarded or holds a posted full-time position.
Part-Time Employee: An employee who does not hold a posted full-time position and who is dispatched on a Seniority basis to work which is available from time to time consistent with the Employee's qualifications and abilities. Part-Time Employees will receive the rate of pay for the job classification performed as listed in the Schedule(s) to the Collective Agreement as well as any applicable shift differential and/or premium. A Part-Time Employee will not displace a Full- Time Employee occupying a posted position.
Summer-Help Employees: Employees who are hired seasonally by the Company to supplement work assigned during the period of April 1st to September 15th inclusive in any year. Summer-Help Employees are paid the rate for Summer Help listed in Schedule 'A' of the Collective Agreement. Summer-Help Employees will not displace any Full-Time or Part-Time Employees.
Masculine and Feminine: The masculine or feminine gender may be used interchangeably throughout this Collective Agreement. Wherever one gender is used, it will be construed as meaning the other, if the context requires.
Reliefman: A Reliefman is a Full-Time Employee who relieves two or more job classifications.
5
CLAUSE 1 ■ UNION SECURITY
1.01	All employees covered by this Agreement must become members of the Union within fourteen (14) calendar days of their commencing their employment hereunder. The Company agrees to retain in their employ, within the group covered by this Agreement, only members of the Union in good standing and to notify the Union within ten (10) days of any new employees hired or former employees returned to the payroll.
1.02	It is further agreed: That any person not a member of the Union shall not work at occupations which come under the Union's jurisdiction, except in cases of emergency and then only until a member of the Union can be placed on the job. Where this provision operates against the efficiency of the Company's operation, the Union undertakes to consider exemption in any particular case put before it. In the event of failure to reach agreement, the matter will be submitted to Arbitration under the provisions of Clause 8.
1.03	The Union's jurisdiction shall be deemed to include the processing, manufacture, sale and/or distribution of dairy products or such other products as the Company may from time to time process, manufacture, sell and/or distribute. The Unions' jurisdiction will include all employees covered by this Agreement and listed in the attached classification and wage schedules to this Agreement.
1.04	This Agreement shall cover all employees engaged in work coming within the Union's jurisdiction and whether employed at the Company's address set forth above or employed elsewhere in the Province of British Columbia and there engaged in the sale or distribution of dairy or
6
other products shipped or forwarded from the aforesaid places.
1.05	The selling and distribution of dairy products being recognized as work coming within the Union's jurisdiction such work must be performed by an employee of the Company whose products are being sold or distributed provided that selling and distribution may be carried on by such persons other than employees who were on October 1st, 1965 carrying on such selling or distribution. Section 1.04 shall not be deemed to include sales representatives who are not employed in distribution or delivery.
1.06	Personnel above Route Foreman or Assistant Plant Foreman shall not be required to be members of the Union unless working within the Union'sjurisdiction.
CLAUSE 2 - UNION REPRESENTATIVESAND UNION NOTICES
2,01	Upon receipt of a written request from the Union, not later than thirty (30) days prior to the date the leave is required to commence, an unpaid leave of absence will be granted to Employees who are elected as representatives of the Union and required to attend at Union executive meetings, Union conventions, seminars or as member(s) of the Union Negotiating Committee during collective bargaining with the Company. Where operational considerations are compromised, or where no suitable replacement is available, the Union undertakes, in good faith to consider alternate arrangements. Seniority will be unaffected by the granting of the Union's request. No employee who serves on a committee shall lose his position nor be discriminated against for that reason. No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for upholding the Unions principals.
7
2.02	To facilitate the administration of Clause 2,01, where such leave of absence is granted pursuant to 2.01, the Company will maintain the basic pay and benefits for the employee during the leave and will invoice the Union for benefits and wages paid. The payment of wages and benefits to employees who are at the bargaining table negotiating will be paid in accordance with the Letter of Understanding appended to this Agreement.
Union Notices
2.03	The Company agrees to provide bulletin board facilities for the exclusive use of the Union at each of the locations of the Company. The use of such bulletin board facilities will be restricted to posted notices and information which is the official business of the Union as authorized by the Principal Officer or Business Agent of the Union. The Company shall provide one (1) bulletin board in the Cassidy facility and two (2) bulletin boards in the Victoria facility.
CLAUSE 3 ■ MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Company shall have the exclusive right and power to manage the business and direct the working forces, including the right to hire; suspend for cause; discharge for cause; lay-off; promote; assign to jobs; transfer employees from Department to Department; to increase or decrease the working force; to determine the products to be handled.
3.02	Nothing in this Agreement shall be intended or is to be construed in any way to interfere with the recognized right of the Company to manage and control the business. It is further agreed that nothing in this Clause shall be used to discriminate against any employee of the Union, its members or its Executive.
8
3.03	Nothing in any of the provisions of this Clause shall in any way limit, void or affect the other provisions of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 4 ■ DEDUCTION OF DUES
4.01	Each of the employees covered by this Agreement hereby authorizes the Company to deduct and pay over to the Secretary of the Union, any monthly dues, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's Bylaws, owing by him or her hereunder to the said Union, or as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. Monies shall be deducted in accordance with the written statement supplied in duplicate by the Union which shall show the total amount owing by each employee and the names of the employees for whom the deductions are to be made. Deductions of any monies owing shall also be made from employees in the month in which they terminate. Monies deducted shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary- Treasurer of the Union not later than the 10th day of the following month and shall be accompanied by a copy of the written statement supplied by the Union.
CLAUSE 5 - SHOP STEWARDS
5.01	The Company recognizes the Union's right to elect or appoint the appropriate number of Shop Stewards to represent employees. The Company agrees to recognize the Shop Steward provided that the Union has first advised the Company in writing of the name(s) of the Shop Stewards so elected or appointed. There shall be no discrimination against a Shop Steward for the carrying out their duties consistent with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
9
5.02	The Company agrees to allow the Union to conduct the election of Shop Stewards in a location at the Company's facilities as directed by the Company (e.g. the employee lunchroom), providing the election process is not disruptive to the Company's operations.
5.03	In the exercise of their functions, the Shop Steward shall first obtain the necessary permission from the Manager of the Department or his designate prior to leaving their assigned duties to carry out any investigation arising out of a complaint and/or settlement of a grievance(s). The Company agrees that a Shop Steward carrying out such duties shall suffer no loss in pay.
5.04	The Shop Steward(s) shall have no authority to alter, amend or otherwise change the terms of this Agreement. The Shop Steward(s) have the authority of the Union to resolve formal grievances up to and including Step 1 of the grievance procedure as provided at Clause 8 of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 6 ■ CONFLICTING AGREEMENT
6.01	It is further agreed by the Company that no Union member will be asked to make any written or verbal agreement conflicting with this Agreement. No Union member shall make any written or verbal agreement with the Company conflicting with this Agreement.
CLAUSE 7 ■ CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND
RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT
7.01	The Company shall not require any member of the Union to cross a picket line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction. The Company shall not require any member of the Union to accept any product or
10
goods from any person, or employees of any person, with whom the Union, Local No.464, has a picket or placard
line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction, around or against, or to deliver any product or goods to any person or employees of any person with whom the Union, Local No. 464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction, around or against.
7.02	It shall not be a violation of this Agreement or cause for dismissal for an employee to refuse to handle, receive, ship or transport any materials or equipment affected by a labour dispute which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction
CLAUSE 8 - GRIEVANCE & ARBITRATION PROCEDURES
8.01	The Parties confirm that they recognize that mutual cooperation is necessary to the effective resolution of workplace disputes and all reasonable efforts should be made to determine the facts in any matter before a grievance is pursued, particularly with respect to allegations of workplace harassment.
(a)	Any difference or dispute arising between the Parties bound by this Collective Agreement may be registered as a grievance and shall be resolved without stoppage or interruption of work or work procedure.
(b)	The Union and its members agree that they will not cause, authorize or sanction any slow down in any Department nor engage in any strike or stoppage of work or curtailment of operations during the term of this Agreement.
11
(c)	The Company will not authorize, cause nor engage in any lockout of the Union or its members during the term of this Agreement.
(d)	The Company will not meet with or interview an employee without providing the employee with an opportunity to have a Shop Steward present when the purpose of the meeting/interview is to administer discipline on the employee or to determine if the employee should be disciplined. Where the employee advises the Company that he wishes to have a Shop Steward present, no such meeting/interview will commence until a Shop Steward is present and in attendance.
(e)	Either Party to this Agreement may lodge a grievance with the other Party on any difference(s) between the Parties concerning the alleged violation of, or the interpretation of, application or administration of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable. Where the Company or Teamsters Local 464 files a grievance, such grievance shall commence at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure as listed below.
(f)	For the purposes of this Clause, any grievance filed by a Party must be in writing. Any grievance filed by an employee or the Union must be submitted on a proper grievance form as authorized by the Union and filed with the Company. Any grievance must be filed within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of the issue-giving rise to the grievance or within thirty (30) days of the Party being aware of the issue. The Company will provide, in writing, acknowledged receipt of the grievance to the Union.
12
(g)	If the issue referred to in paragraph (f) is not advanced to a grievance within the time frame set aut in paragraph, (f) the issue will be deemed to be abandoned.
Grievance Procedure
8.02	(a) Any employee who has a grievance or complaint shall first discuss the matter in dispute with his immediate supervisor as soon as he becomes aware of the matter.
For the purposes of this procedure, 'immediate supervisor' means either a member of the bargaining unit (Asst. Foreman or Foreman) or a member of management to whom the employee directly reports.
(b)	Where the matter in dispute raised by the employee pursuant to 8.02(a) above is not resolved to the satisfaction of the employee, it shall be advanced as a grievance, reduced to writing consistent with 8.01(f) above. Such grievance shall set out the nature of the grievance, the relevant provision of the Agreement in dispute, the remedy requested and the signature of the grievor advancing the grievance as follows:
step 1
The grievor and the Shop Steward shall meet with the Department Manager or his designate within fourteen (14) calendar days of acknowledged receipt of the grievance by the Company. The Company shall provide the Union, grievor and Shop Steward with a written reply to the grievance as soon as is reasonably practicable but in any case, not later than ten (10) calendar days from the Step 1 meeting.
13
step2
Failing a resolve to the grievance at Step 1, and within twenty (20) calendar days of the Company's reply, the grievor and the Union representatives (Union Officer and Shop Steward) and the Director of Human Resources (or in his absence his designate) shall meet in an attempt to resolve the grievance. The Company shall provide the Union, grievor and Shop Steward with a written reply to the grievance as soon as is reasonably practicable but in any case, not later than ten (10) calendar days from the Step 2 meeting.
Where the grievance is filed by the Company or Teamsters Local 464 at this step, the Company representative(s) and the Union representative(s) shall meet in an attempt to resolve the grievance.
step 3
Failing a resolve at Step 2, and within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of a written reply, either Party may advance the grievance in accordance with Clause 8,04
Alternatively, the Parties may mutually agree to refer the matter to " Mediation - Arbitration" pursuant to Section 105 of the B,C. Labour Code.
8.03	The time limits listed above may be extended, in writing, only by mutual consent between the Parties.
Arbitration Procedure
8.04	The Company and the Union shall endeavor to agree upon the selection of an acceptable Arbitrator to hear and render a final and binding decision on the grievance or matter(s) in dispute. In the event the Parties are unable to agree upon the selection of an Arbitrator, either Party may apply to the
14
Director of the Collective Agreement Arbitration Bureau pursuant to Section 86 of the B.C. Labour Code for the appointment of an Arbitrator.
8.05	The Arbitrator, as selected or appointed, shall contact the Parties and schedule a hearing into the grievance or matter in dispute, where he/she shall consider the submissions and the evidence submitted by the Parties and render a decision within ten (10) calendar days. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the Parties. Each Party shall bear half (1/2) the costs of the Arbitrator.
8.06	Provided both Parties agree, the grievance or matter in dispute may be referred to a three- (3) person Panel of Arbitrators consisting of a Chairman as selected by the respective nominees of the Parties.
The decision of the majority will be the decision of the Panel and shall be final and binding on the Parties. If there is no majority decision, the decision of the Chairman is the decision of the Panel.
In the case of a three (3) person Panel, each Party shall bear the costs associated with their own nominee to the Panel and one-half (1/2) the costs of the Chairman.
8.07	The Arbitrator or Panel of Arbitrators shall be restricted to the authority as set out at Section 89 of the B.C. Labour Code with respect to the interpretation and application of the existing Agreement and shall have no authority or jurisdiction to alter, modify, delete or supplement any existing provision of this Agreement in any way.
CLAUSE 9 - DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES
9.01	Except for Lay-offs pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agreement, no employee shall be discharged other than for proper cause.
15
9.02	The Company reserves the right to discharge any employee, without notice, for proper cause, including but not limited to the following causes:
1.	Dishonesty
2.	Drunkenness
3.	Refusal to obey a lawful order
4.	Absence without leave
5.	Drinking intoxicating liquors while on duty
6.	Permitting unauthorized persons on vehicles provided "No Riders" stickers are on vehicles.
7.	Willful abuse of sick leave privileges
8.	Impairment due to the improper use of drugs
9.	Willful abuse of Company equipment/machinery/-facilities.
9.03	Any discharged employee may, within 72 hours of his discharge, in writing, require the Company to give to him the reasons for his discharge and the Company will give such reasons to him, in writing within 72 hours of such request, and in the event of any dispute or difference as to whether or not there was proper cause for the discharge of an employee only the reasons so set forth in writing shall constitute cause.
9.04	If an employee is discharged or suspended for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, or, if an employee, laid-off pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agreement is not re-hired and feels that he should have been re-hired, the dispute shall constitute a grievance to be settled pursuant to the provisions of Clause 8 hereof, provided that the grievance shall be launched within fourteen (14) calendar days of the discharge or suspension.
9.05	The nature of a suspension, length of a suspension, and the date of implementation of a suspension shall be
16
provided to an employee in writing and the Union shall be so notified immediately.
CLAUSE 10 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
10:01 General
(a)	Following fifty-two (52) weeks of employment, an employee may apply for a leave of absence and such application shall not be unreasonably denied by the Company.
(b)	The basis for the denial shall be when the reason for, the timing and/or duration of the leave will unduly affect the efficient operation of the Department, the reputation of the Company or the business.
(c)	Applications for a leave of absence must be in writing and registered with the Director of Human Resources or in his absence his designate, not less than thirty (30) days in advance of the anticipated commencement of the leave.
The Company may accept applications filed within the thirty (30) day period where unanticipated or compassionate circumstances are present.
(d)	Where the application for the leave is granted, the Company will confirm the approved duration and the purpose of the leave in writing. The Company agrees to provide notification of granting or denial of the application not later than ten (10) calendar days from the date the application is received by the Company.
(e)	If such leave of absence is used for purpose(s) other than those for which it is granted, it shall be cause for dismissal.
17
10.02 Bereavement Leave
In the event of death in the immediate family of an employee, the Company shall grant up to three (3) working days leave of absence with pay when such leave is necessary in order to make arrangements for and/or to attend the funeral. The term "immediate family" shall mean spouse (including common-law spouse providing he or she is registered as a dependent under Clause 11), parents, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, grandchildren, mother-in-law and father-in-law. It is understood funeral leave is payable only for working time lost.
10:03 Pregnancy, Parental, Family and Adoption Leave
(a)	The Company will grant Pregnancy, Parental, Family and Adoption Leave consistent with the provisions of Sections 50, 52 and 52 of the Employment Standards Act of B,C,
(b)	In addition to the Leave outlined in (a) above, a birth father may take up to two (2) calendar days leave on or immediately following the birth of the employee's child. Banked time (if available) shall be used to offset any wage loss on such leave.
(c)	Excluding employees at (b) above, employee(s) on leave as provided in this Clause, shall provide the Company with a minimum of two (2) weeks notice of their intended return to work from leave.
10.04 Jury Duty
(a)	All working time lost by an employee due to necessary attendance on jury duty or any court proceedings arising out of his employment shall be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee. No employees shall be paid until they have provided proof satisfactory to the Company of such attendance.
18
(b)	Any employee on jury duty shall, subject to this provision, make himself available for work before or after being required for such duty, wherever practicable. All jury duty pay or witness fees received by the employee from the courts shall be reimbursed to the Company.
CLAUSE 11 - WELFARE PLAN AND PENSION PLAN
11.01	Effective the first day of the month following one hundred four (104) shifts employment the Company shall provide a Welfare Plan for all employees covered by this Agreement (excluding those listed hereunder) with the following benefits:
(a)	Life Insurance in the sum of $30,000.00 upon death from any cause whatever.
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment in the principal sum of $30,000.00 both occupational and non-occupational coverage.
(i) In the event of death by accident, the principal sum will be paid in addition to the Life Insurance benefit in (a).
(ii) In the event of dismembermentor loss of sight due to accident, the following amounts will be paid:
1,	Both hands or feet
2,	Sight of both eyes
3,	One hand and one foot
4,	One hand and the sight of one eye
5,	One foot and the sight of one eye
6,	Sight of one eye
7,	One hand or one foot
19
The Principal Sum The Principal Sum The Principal Sum
The Principal Sum The Principal Sum
Half the Principal Sum Half the Principal Sum
(c)	The following schedule of additional life insurance shall apply to all employees with dependents upon death of the employee.
(d)	Sick benefit in the sum of 65% of the employee's gross weekly base rate for a period of fifty-two (52) weeks to become effective on the first (1 st) day in the event of a non-compensable accident and on the fourth (4th) day of any sickness.
In addition, any employee with over seven (7) years Seniority that is on Weekly Indemnity may, at his option, make up his benefit to full salary by using accumulated sick days to the maximum payable as per Clause 11.03 (c).
To apply for sick benefit an employee must obtain the appropriate Sick Benefit application forms from the Company.
On presentation of a receipt from the Physician, an employee shall be reimbursed up to ten dollars ($10.00) for each physician's statement completed in any sickness or accident period.
(e)	Medical coverage and benefits equivalent to those provided by the Medical Services Plan of B.C,
(f)	Extended Health Benefits Plan equivalent to the coverage provided by the Medical Services Association of B.C.
Additional coverage of $1,000,000.00 in out-ofprovince Medical Coverage.
First dependent
Each additional dependent
20
(g)	A Dental Plan providing the following coverage:
-	100% payment for Plan A (Basic Services)
-	75% payment of claims for Plan B (Prosthetic appliances, crown and bridge procedures).
Claims under Plans A and B are limited to $3,000.00
per year for each person covered.
-	50% payment of claims for Plan C (Orthodontics) to a maximum of $1,000.00 per annum, $2,000.00 per life.
(h)	A Long Term Disability Plan (LTD Plan) providing a benefit of fifty (50) percent of an employee's weekly base rate to commence after weekly indemnity ceases, payable to age 65, This benefit to be reduced by any amount payable by the Canada Pension Disability Plan. Provisions of LTD Plan to include eligibility if employee is unable to perform duties of his/her own occupation for a period of two years and/or the Company is unable to provide a suitable job to the disabled employee. After two (2) years, the employee must be unable to perform the normal duties of any occupation.
If deemed appropriate, benefit recipients may be required to participate in a rehabilitation program developed through consultation with the Company, the Union and professional rehabilitation specialists
(i)	An Optical Plan to provide $150.00 of coverage for each two year period applicable to each eligible person.
11.02	The cost of the benefits contained in Clause 11.01 shall be borne 100% by the Company.
21
11.03 - Sick Leave
(a)	Commencing on the first of the month following completion of the probationary period (Per Clause 19,02
(a)) all employees shall accumulate paid sick leave at the rate c£one-half (1/2) day per rncntii for each month wages are earned. For the purpose of this Clause, wages shall include Weekly Indemnity and Workers' Compensation Benefits. Accumulation while drawing such benefits shall be limited to one (1) year.
Employees who accumulate sick leave in excess of thirty (30) days shall receive such excess days accumulated in the contract year as time off in the following contract year at a mutually agreeable time at their regular rate of pay.
An employee may request by October 31st following the end of each contract year that he receive these excess days in cash rather than time off and such request shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Company. The basis of refusal shall be when such request will unduly effect the efficient operation of the business.
Employees over age 50 may, at their option, accumulate these sick days indefinitely, with the days in excess of 30 being accumulated at the rate of pay in effect when the
days are earned.
(b)	Where any absence, occasioned by sickness or accident is not covered for payment by either the Sick Benefit (11.01
(d)	of this Clause) or Compensation, employees shall draw on time so accumulated in the following manner:
(i)	First day of absence - One Eialf (1/2) day's pay
(ii)	Second day of absence - One full day's pay (ii) Third day of absence - One full day's pay
22
Thereafter, the balance of accumulated Sick Leave is to be applied and paid at the full daily rate for each day the employee's absence exceeds fifty (52) weeks and is not covered by the Sick Benefit. Employee with an existing accumulated balance of thirty (30) days and over shall receive full pay on the first day of absence.
(c)	On retirement or voluntary termination an employee having completed:
-	7 years of service will receive 33% of accumulated sick days owing.
-	14 years of service will receive 66% of accumulated sick days owing.
-	18 years of service will receive 100% of accumulated sick days owing.
11.04	- Pension
The Company shall continue to participate in the operation of the Teamsters Local 464 Dairy Industry Pension Plan in accordance with Appendix "A" attached hereto, which shall form part of this Agreement.
11.05 (a) When an employee goes off work ill or on
compensation or grievance procedure is invoked on his discharge, the Company shall continue to pay
both his welfare fees and Union dues so that at all
times the employee shall be protected to the utmost.
(b)	For the purpose of this Clause only, any employee off ill or on compensation shall be deemed to be on the payroll.
(c)	All working time lost by an employee due to completing driver's tests or doctor's examinations
23
shall, provided such test or examinations are required by his Company, be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee.
11.06	- Exclusions
(a)	Employees (Summer-Help) whose term of employment does not exceed the period April 1st to September 15th inclusive.
(b)	Part-Time Employees (per Clause 19,02 (c)) who do not work fifty percent (50%)of the standard work hours in an accounting period for their job classification.
These employees shall be excluded from the provisions of Clause 11, Welfare Plan.
CLAUSE 12 - COMPENSATION COVERAGE AND
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
Compensation Coverage
12,01	(a) A return to work program is intended to provide temporary work to an employee who is receiving eitherWCB WageLoss benefits or Weekly Indemnity benefits and who is deemed medically able to perform light and/or alternative duties. Wherever possible, and in those cases where the employee is not deemed by the Workers' Compensation Board (WCB) to be supernumerary, every attempt will be made by the Company to provide a suitable return to work program in order to facilitate an expedient return to his regular, posted position.
(b) In order to be considered for this program, support from both the WCB and the employee's doctor is required. Wherever possible, the employee will be
24
I provided with available work for which they are qualified and for which no training is required. No posted employee will lose work as a result of this program and the employee may be required, at the Company's discretion, to work temporarily in an area other than their regular position and/or Department.
(c)	Until the employee returns to his regular, posted position, the employee will be paid the wages assigned to the work they are performing or their regular rate of pay, whichever is greater and they will be paid for those hours worked. No overtime work will be assigned to an employee while on a return to work program.
(d)	When employees on WCB Wage Loss benefits are directed by the WCB or their physician that they may return to work, they shall be returned to their previous job and rate of pay to see if they are capable of performing the job held at the time of injury, and if so, they shall be kept on the payroll.
In the event the previous job no longer exists, the employee shall be subject to the provisions of Clause 19.
(e)	Any employee injured or disabled on the job and who is required to leave for medical treatment will receive the regular rate of pay for the balance of his assigned shift.
Occupational Health and Safety
12,02	(a) The Company undertakes to provide each new employee, at the time of hiring, the necessary orientation for the safe performance of work and handling of materials and products.
25
(b)	Every employee must take reasonable care to protect their health and safety and the health and safety of others who may be affected by their acts or omissions at work. To carry out their work in accordance with established safe work procedures, use and wear protective equipment, devices and clothing as required by the Company and or the OH&S Regulations.
(c)	Where required by the Company, an employee who is required to obtain or maintain a First Aid Certificate will have the cost of the Course and/or Examinations borne by the Company. Time spent attending assigned courses and/or writing examinations shall be considered as part of their workweek and scheduled as such.
CLAUSE 13 ■ PAY DAYS
13.01	Employees shall be paid every second Friday. The amount paid shall include all sums owing by way of wages earned up to and including the Saturday previous. A Letter of Understanding will cover any exception to this.
13.02	The Company shall provide for the direct deposit (electronic funds transfer) of the employee's pay in a participating chartered bank, trust company or credit union of the employee's choice on or before the appropriate payday.
CLAUSE 14 -PAY STATEMENTS
14.01	Ail Union employees will be given a pay statement for a pay period during which work was performed. Such statement shall note type of hours worked, type of time off taken in lieu of work, wages paid and other approved statutory and/or regulatory deductions.
26
14.02	A statement by Department shall be posted following each accounting period in each location showing accumulated Sick Days, Vacation Days, Banked Days and Statutory Holidays owing.
CLAUSE 15: VACANT POSITIONS
15.01- Procedures for Posting of Vacancies
(a)	All routes and vacancies shall be posted within fifteen (15) days of the new route, vacant route, new position or vacant position becoming available on the bulletin boards at all Locations for a period of six (6) calendar days with details of rate of pay, currently assigned hours of work, days off, and any other pertinent information. There will be no changes in requirements during the period of the posting.
(b)	Any employee desiring the vacancy shall make written application in the form provided by the Company to the Director of Human Resources within the period of posting. An employee selected for or appointed to a vacancy in accordance with this Clause may be required to undergo a trial period. The purpose of the trial period is to familiarize the employee with the requirements of the job and to determine if the successful applicant is suitable. However, such trial period shall not exceed three (3) working weeks except by mutual agreement between the Company and the employee. It is understood that the Company may shorten the trial period and confirm the employee in the position prior to the expiry of the established trial period. Upon completion of the trial period as confirmed by the Company, the next subsequent vacancy will be posted.
27
If the successful applicant is deemed unsuitable for the vacancy, the applicant will revert to his former route or position. Where an employee is deemed to be unsuitable by the Company, upon request from the employee., the Company will provide in writing the reason and/or reasons why the employee was not successful. An employee who by his choice reverts to his old position within the three-week trial period shall lose all bidding rights for the next six (6) months
(c)	When an employee voluntarily returns to his former position or is deemed to be unsuitable for the vacancy as stated above in 15.01 (b), the Company will fill the vacancy from applicants to the original posting in accordance with 15.02 below. If none are suitable, the Company will re-post the vacant position. There shall be a maximum of Two (2) additional vacancies resulting from the posting of the initial vacancy, with the exception of route vacancies. There shall be only one posting created by a route vacancy, unless the subsequent vacancy is a Reliefman or Route Foreman's position, in which this position only will be posted.
(d)	Any employee applying for a posted position that requires a specific Drivers License/ Engineering Certificate/ Trade Ticket and/or any other similar required qualification must possess the qualifications necessary for the position at the time cf the posting in order to be considered eligible for the position.
(e)	Applications for vacant routes shall not be entertained if the applicant has applied for and been given a vacant route within the last twelve (12) months.
In the event that no suitable applicant is available and the position cannot be filled, then Clause 15.01 (e) will be
28
waived and the position will be re-posted. This similarly applies to 15.01 (f) below under the same circumstances.
(0 The successful employee filling a vacancy in the following Specialized Positions shall fulfill a nonmobility period of twelve (12) months whereby he will not be eligible to apply for other vacant positions. The Specialized Positions are Accounts Payable Clerk, Payroll Clerk, Cost Accountant, Reliefman (All Departments), Tanker Driver, Pasteurizer, Mix Maker, Cottage Cheese Maker, Yogurt Maker, Ice Cream Maker, Head Checker, Assistant Foreman and Foreman.
(g)	The results of the posting will be announced within fourteen (14) calendar days of the closing date of the posting. Upon successful completion of the trial period, the employee shall commence the duties of the new position as soon as reasonably practical. The employee will be confirmed at their new rate of pay after they have successfully completed the trial period.
(h)	The time limit for posting of vacancies may be lowered in cases of extreme emergencies and only with the consent of the Union.
(j ) Posted vacancies shall be determined by the Company. Applicants already on the payroll shall be given the first opportunity to apply for the new route, vacant route, new position or vacant position before new employees are hired. The Company will consider applications from employees who, at the time of a posting are or will be absent from work as a result of vacation, leave of absence, or illness/WCB wage loss benefits, during the posting period provided the employee has requested consideration, in writing, to the Director of Human Resources prior to the absence. Employees who are Summer Help or who have
29
not completed the 52-shift probation period are not eligible to apply for new routes, vacant routes new positions or vacant positions.
q The Company may appoint a qualified employee to fill a vacancy on a temporary basis until a suitable candidate is selected in accordance with this Clause.
15.02	- Determination of Successful Applicant
It is agreed between the Parties that operational efficiencies must be ensured and, as such qualifications, abilities and Seniority shall be the determining factors when selecting applicants for posted positions and shall be applied as follows:
Foreman and assistant Foreman vacancies in all divisions may be filled by the Company without regard to Company Seniority.
Positions listed in 15,01 (f), Specialized Positions will be filled on the basis of Company Seniority within the Division, provided the employees' overall qualifications and abilities are relatively equal, as reasonably determined by the Company.
For remaining positions, they will be filled on the basis of Company Seniority within the Divisions set out in Clause
19.03	unless the overall qualifications and abilities of the employees' are demonstrably different, as reasonably determined by the Company.
15:03 Temporary Vacancy
(a)	On the occurrence of accident, illness or scheduled Leave of Absence, the Company will attempt to establish within twenty-one (21) days whether an employee will be off for a temporary period exceeding ninety (90) days.
30
(a)
(b)
(c)
(b)	If the absence is expected to be more than ninety (90) days, the Company will post the Temporary Vacancy for six (6) calendar days listing rate of pay, currently assigned hours of work, days off and any other pertinent information. There will be no changes in requirements during the time of the posting. The vacancy will be awarded according to Clause 15,02.
(c)	Where required, the Company will fill any subsequent temporary vacancy through appointment, by Company Seniority, to a qualified Part-Time Employee.
(d)	An employee filling a Temporary Vacancy will return to his former position on the return of the incumbent employee.
(e)	Should the Temporary Vacancy become a Vacant Position consistent with Clause 15.01(i), at any point, the Vacant Position will be re-posted pursuant to Clause 15.01.
(f)	The Company may appoint a qualified employee to fill a Temporary Vacancy until a suitable candidate is selected in accordance with this Clause.
15.04	- Vehicle Change
(a)	If the Company requires any employee to possess a higher classification of driver's license for any driving position due to a vehicle change, the cost of obtaining the license and the driving assessment will be borne by the Company. The Company will allow up to a ninety (90)-day grace period for the employee to acquire the necessary license and pass the Company Driving Assessment. The choice of any course or training to secure the appropriate upgraded license will be at the discretion of the Company.
(b)	Required attendance at driver training will be considered part of the employees' regular workday and where
31
I practical, will be scheduled in advance of the vehicle change. The employee will be expected to attend to his regular and/or other duties prior to or after attending the required driver training.
(c)	By mutual agreement between the Company and the employee, the Parties may agree to an additional ninety (90)-day grace period to upgrade to the necessary license and/or pass the Company Driving Assessment. All costs will be borne by the employee and completed on the employee's own time.
(d)	When an employee is unable or unwilling to obtain the required license, notwithstanding that there is no reduction of positions as defined in 19.04 (a), the employee will be laid- off and shall be eligible to displace the most junior employee in his classification in the Sub Department of the Division at his Location.
(e)	Where there is no junior employee in his classification or
where the employee who is to be laid-off pursuant to (d) elects not to exercise the right to displace the junior employee in the classification, he may elect to go to the Part-Time list.
(f)	The junior employee displaced pursuant to (d) shall be given the opportunity to obtain the required license in accordance with this Clause and to assume the duties of the route/position identified in 15,04 (a).
15.05	Promotion Outside Bargaining Unit
(a)	Employees who leave the bargaining unit on a trial basis (up to three (3) months) but remain in the employ of the Company, shall continue to remit Union dues and shall have the right to re-enter the bargaining unit and retain their full Company Seniority.
32
(b)	Following the trial period, bargaining unit Seniority shall be frozen and re-entry to the unit shall be at the Company's discretion.
(c)	Re-entry shall be to the Part-Time list until a position vacancy is obtained consistent with Clause 15.01 of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 16 - NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
16.01	The Company shall negotiate with the Union, the establishment of and the rate of wages to be paid for any classification of work other than those set forth in Schedules "A", "B", "C", "D" and "E".
16.02	In the event that the Company and the Union cannot reach agreement concerning any proposed classification of work, either Party may invoke the Grievance Procedure set forth in Clause 8 of this Agreement. The rate established by mutual agreement or Arbitration shall be retroactive to the day the employee was assigned to such position.
CLAUSE 17 - LOSS OF WAGES
17.01	No employee shall suffer a reduction of earnings or rate of earnings because of the adoption of this Agreement. For the purposes of this Clause, earnings shall not be deemed to include overtime earnings.
CLAUSE 18 - NEW EMPLOYEES
18.01	New, inexperienced employees (excluding Summer Help) shall receive twenty-five percent (25%) less than the rate provided herein, for the first two hundred eight (208) working shifts and fifteen percent (15%) less than the rate provided herein for the next two hundred eight (208)
33
working shifts; full scale thereafter. This shall include Pact-Time Employees.
18.02	Experienced employees who terminate their employment with another Company covered by Local 464 and are hired by the Company (in the same capacity) shall be considered experienced and paid as such, provided the employee is not absent from the trade for a period exceeding six (6) months.
CLAUSE 19- SENIORITY, PROBATIONARY PERIOD, REDUCTION OF STAFF, SEVERANCE PAY, LAYOFF AND RIGHT OF RECALL
19.01	Seniority
Company Seniority as defined at Clause 19.02 (b) of this
Agreement will be permanently lost, recall rights will be voided
and the Company will have no further obligation to an employee
where:
1.	An employee voluntarily terminates his employment;
2.	An employee is discharged forjust cause;
3.	An employee is on uninterrupted lay-off for a period exceeding twelve (12) months;
4.	An employee does not return to work on the specified date following an approved Leave of Absence; or
5.	An employee fails to report to work in response to a recall from lay-off.
19.02	- Probation Period and Seniority Lists
(a)	A probationary period for each new employee in which fifty-two (52) working shifts ate to be completed within a
34
period of one hundred and eighty-three (183) consecutive calendar days. Firing such time, Seniority will not apply and an employee may be laid- off without reference to Seniority and the Company will not be obligated to rehire such employee. The probationary period will be extended by any working time lost due to accident or illness during the probationary period or by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
(b)	Company Seniority (date of hire) will be granted to employees who have completed the probationary period and will be the length of service in the bargaining unit in the employ of the Company.
(c)	There will be two (2) Seniority lists. The first list will include all Full-Time Employees and the second list will include all Part-Time Employees. Such lists will be posted in all Locations and supplied to the Union by the Company on or about April 1st and October 1st of each year and will include all employees that have achieved a Seniority date pursuant to 19.02 (b). The Full-Time list will show the employees' name, Seniority date, and classification. The Part-Time list will show the employees' name and Seniority date.
(d)	Where a regular Full-Time Employee works more than one (1) classification on a regular basis (excluding Reliefman, Assistant Foremen and Foremen), he will have his classification listed as to where he performs the majority of his work for the six (6) month period from the last posting of the Seniority Lists.
(e)	Part-Time Employees will be asked by the Company on April 1st and October 1st to select their availability for the Victoria and/or Cassidy locations for the six (6) month period extending from May 1st to October 31st and
35
November 1st to April 30th of each year. These selections must be presented in writing to the Company within seven (7) days of April 1st and October 1st.
(f)	Part-Time Employees may express their preferences for shifts and waive their right to be scheduled for any shift less than the designated full shift by advising the Company in writing on the dates specified at 19.02 (e) above. Failure to provide the written waiver will result in the Part-Time Employee being scheduled for the available shifts at the discretion of the Company.
(g)	The Company undertakes to consider Part-Time Employees preferences and availability, however, notwithstanding the Part-Time Employees' written availability and preferences pursuant to 19.02 (e) and (0 above, it is understood that Part-Time Employees will be scheduled by qualifications and Company Seniority in accordance with the operational requirements of the Company.
(h)	Summer-Help Employees
1.	May be employed to supplement the regular workforce and provide additional help between April 1st and September 15th.
2.	Summer-Help Employees will not displace Full-Time or Part-Time Employees.
3.	Summer-Help Employees will not accrue Seniority rights, nor be guaranteed a minimum number of hours.
4.	Summer-Help Employees will be laid-off not later than September 15th in any calendar year.
36
19.03	- Reduction of Staff - Permanent Job Loss - Full-Time Employees
(a)	All Full-Time Employees shall be given fourteen (14) calendar days notice before being laid-off. Employees shall give the Company the same notice when the employee intends to terminate employment.
(b)	A reduction in staff may only be effected in accordance with the following procedures in 19.04 or 19.05, recognizing the following Divisions/Departments/Sub-Departments:
(i)	Victoria Location Divisions:
1.	Production, Sales and Distribution
2.	Office
3.	Maintenance
4.	Janitorial
(ii)	Cassidy Location Divisions:
1.	Production, Sales and Distribution
2.	Office
(c)	There shall be no bumping (displacing) into other Divisions.
(d)	The Victoria Production/Sales/Distribution Division will be divided into three (3) Departments with SubDepartments as follows:
Department-Production
1.	Sub-Dept: Ice Cream
Culture (includes YogurtjCream Cheese; Cottage Cheese; Sour Cream; Milk Cups) Fluid (includes Mix Making)
Cooler-Freezer (includes Case Dock) Warehouse
37
2.	Department-Sales
Sub-Dept: Wholesale
3,	Department-Distribution
Sub-Dept: Freight Tankers
The Cassidy Production/Sales/Distribution Division will be divided into three (3) Departments with SubDepartments as follows:
1.	Department-Production
Sub-Dept: Cooler-Freezer
2.	Department-Sales
Sub-Dept: Wholesale
3.	Department-Distribution
Sub-Dept; Freight
19.04	- Bumping Procedure for Production, Sales & Distribution Division
(a)	Where the Company decides to permanently reduce the number of Full-Time position(s) by lay-off for any reason whatsoever, in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19.03 above, the laid-off employee affected may elect to bump a more junior employee in Company Seniority, subject to the laid-off employee having the formal qualifications required (e.g. Trade Ticket or Drivers License) and the demonstrated ability in other jobs so as to be able to satisfactorily assume the duties of the position within a three week time period.
1.	The affected employee may elect to bump the junior employee in the Classification within the SubDepartment where the reduction of staff is identified. If there is no junior employee within the
38
Classification in the Sub-Department, the affected
employee will proceed to Step 2 below.
2.	The junior employee within the Classification displaced from Step 1 above may elect to bump the junior employee in the Sub-Department. If there is no junior employee within the Sub-Department, the affected employee will proceed to Step 3 below.
3.	The junior employee within the Sub-Department displaced from Step 2 above may elect to bump the junior employee in the department. If there is no junior employee within the Department, the affected employee will proceed to Step 4 below.
4.	The junior employee within the Department displaced from Step 3 above may elect to bump the junior employee in the Division. If there is no junior employee within the Division, the affected employee will proceed to Step 5 below.
5.	The junior employee within the Division displaced from Step 4 above may elect to bump the junior employee regardless of Location. If there is no junior employee regardless of Location, the affected employee will proceed to Step 6 below.
6.	The junior employee within the Location displaced from Step 5 above may elect to exercise their options under 19.04 (b) below.
Bypass
The affected employee may bypass Step 1 at his option and with the Company's concurrence, provided the employee who would have been displaced in Step 1 has more Company Seniority than the employee does in Step 2,
39
An employee displaced through Step 1 may bypass Step 2, at his option and with the Company's concurrence, provided the employee who would have been displaced in Step 2 has more Company Seniority than the employee does in Step 3.
An employee displaced through Step 2 may bypass Step 3, at his option and with the Company's concurrence, provided the employee who would have been displaced in Step 3 has more Company Seniority than the employee does in Step 4.
An employee displaced through Step 3 may bypass Step 4, at his option and with the Company's concurrence, provided the employee who would have been displaced in Step 4 has more Company Seniority than the employee does in Step 5,
(b)	Those identified for lay-off or displacement as described in the procedures above may, at any time prior to electing to displace another Full-Time Employee or who do not have the Company Seniority to bump another employee, elect to:
(i)	Be placed on the Part-Time list in order of Company Seniority, or
(ii)	Be laid-off with a Right of Recall in accordance with Clause 19.07 or
(iii)	Accept severance pay in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19.08.
(c)	Any employee who displaces an employee in a Specialized Position as set out in Clause 15.01(f) will be subject to the non-mobility period contained therein.
(d)	An employee bumping into a driving position must possess the necessary License and pass the Company Driving Assessment prior to assuming the regular duties of the position. Upon completion, the employee will assume his new position.
40
(e)	The employee to be displaced may remain in the driving position until the bumping employee passes the Company Driving Assessment.
(f)	Where the bumping employee does not possess the required Drivers License or is unable to pass the Company Driving Assessment, the employee will bypass this Step in the Bumping Procedure and proceed to the next applicable Step.
19.05	- Bumping Procedure for Office, Maintenance and Janitorial Divisions
1.	The affected employee displaces the junior employee in the Classification within the Division where the reduction of staff is identified. If there is no junior employee within the Classification in the Division, the affected employee will proceed to Step 2 below.
2.	The junior employee within the Classification displaced from Step 1 above may elect to bump thejunior employee in the Division. If there is no junior employee within the Division, the affected employee will proceed to Step 3 below.
3.	The junior employee within the (Office only) Division displaced from Step 2 above may elect to bump thejunior employee within the (Office only) Division regardless of Location.
4.	Those identified for lay-off or displacement as described in the procedures above may, at any time prior to electing to displace another Full-Time Employee or who do not have the Company Seniority to bump another employee, elect to:
(i) Be placed on the Part-Time list in order of Company Seniority or,
41
(ii)	Be laid-off with a Right of Re call in accordance with Clause 19.07 or,
(iii)	Accept severance pay in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19.08
19.06	- Temporary Lay-off
(a)	A Temporary Lay-off of staff dictated by supply, exceptional weather conditions, emergency or suspension of an operation due to maintenance or breakdown shall be in reverse order of Company Seniority and shall affect only the job classification in the Sub-Department of the Location concerned. Employees will be recalled in order of Company Seniority.
(b)	The Company may apply to the Union for its consent to waive Company Seniority and the Union will consider such application.
(c)	A Full-Time Employee will not be subject to a Temporary Lay-off if there are shifts available that are usually assigned to Part-Time Employees. Such shifts will be offered to the qualified Full-Time Employee in an attempt to provide him with as many weekly hours as possible.
19.07	- Lay-off from Full-Time and Right of Recall
(a)	Any employee laid-off or displaced from a posted position per Clause 19.04 or 19.05 will be afforded the option to waive the reduction of staff procedure and accept a lay-off from the Location in which they were employed with the Right of Recall to that Location only. This option must be completed and signed at the time of displacement from his posted position and will provide for the Right of Recall to a vacant Full-Time position for twelve (12) months from the date of initial lay-off.
42
(b)	The employee will leave with the Company an address and phone number at which the employee can be served
notice of rehire. The onus will rest with the employee to maintain a correct address and phone number.
(c)	An employee who works a total of 52 shifts or more from the first day of lay-off in the previous twelve (12) months will be entitled to:
1.	Renewal of their Right of Recall for twelve (12) months and,
2.	The option to waive the reduction of staff procedure and re-new the lay-off option previously selected.
(d)	Employees who fail to work a minimum of 52 shifts in any recall period (12 months) from the date of original lay-off will be transferred to the Part-Time Seniority list.
(e)	Employees may waive placement on the Part-Time list and accept severance pay in accordance with Clause 19.08.
(f)	Seniority will not accumulate during the lay-off period if shifts are not worked.
(g)	At any time within the twelve (12) month period from the date of lay-off, an employee on the recall list may advise the Company that he elects to accept severance pay in accordance with Clause 19.08
(h)	Any employee failing within seven (7) calendar days to respond to a recall to work notice delivered by registered mail to the employee will be deemed to have forfeited both the Right of Recall and Seniority and is subject to the provisions of Clause 19:08.
43
19:08 - Severance Pay
(a)	Severance pay shall apply to all employees.
(b)	In respect of an employee whose termination arises out of or is attributable to:
1.	The elimination of a job process, or
2.	The introduction of equipment or methods which reduces the number of employees, provided he has two (2) years or more service, he shall be eligible for severance pay at the rate paid at the time of severance.
(c)	All employees with two (2) to five (5) years of service shall receive two (2) weeks severance pay when termination is due to reasons outlined in this section. Additional severance pay shall accrue at the rate of two (2) weeks of full pay for each year of service commencing with the sixth (6th) year of service but shall not exceed a total of twenty (20) weeks of full pay.
(d)	Upon termination such employee shall be placed on the Re-Hire list as provided for in 19.07 (a) of this Clause for a period of four (4) weeks. At the end of four (4) weeks, the employee so affected shall have the option of remaining on the Re-Hire list or accepting severance pay.
Should he elect to remain on the Re-Hire list, he may renew his option every fourth (4th) week but in any event, providing no suitable employment has been provided by the Company, he must accept severance pay no later than fifty-two (52) weeks from the date of termination.
(e)	Any employee electing to take severancepay under the terms set out above shall forfeit all rights under this Agreement.
Any employee electing to retire on Pension prior to normal retirement age shall not be eligible for severance pay.
44
(f)	Severance pay shall be paid in addition to all other sums owing to the employee.
19.09 Where any dispute arises, such dispute shall constitute a grievance and will be settled pursuant to the grievance provisions of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 20 ■ MINIMUM PAY
20.01	When an employee is called to work on any of his days off, he shall receive a minimum of four (4)hours pay or pay at the overtime rates for all time worked, whichever is the greater.
CLAUSE 21 - EATING AND REST PERIOD
21.01	No employees shall be worked longer than five (5) hours without a one-half (1/2) hour off for the purpose of eating a meal.
21.02	All employees shall be entitled to a ten (10) minute break in the forenoon and afternoon, without loss of pay.
21.03	All employees shall be entitled to a paid ten (10) minute break immediately following the standard shift if overtime in excess of one (1) additional hour is anticipated.
CLAUSE 22 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
22.01	- Anniversary Date/Vacation Year
(a) January 1st of each year will be the common anniversary date for the purpose of calculating annual vacation entitlement and vacation pay. January 1st to December 31st of each year is known as the Vacation Accrual Period.
45
(b) Annual vacation entitlement earned during the vacation accrual period will be taken between May 1st of one year to April 30th of the following year. This is known as a Vacation Year.
Employees hired during a Vacation Accrual Period will be granted a pro-rata entitlement and may be entitled to schedule vacation during a Vacation Year in accordance with the procedures below.
(d)	Employees, who may, because of the seasonal nature of the work, be employed in such a manner as to be subject to short periods of lay-off, shall accumulate working time in successive years towards vacation schedule and shall receive pro-rated vacation pay depending on the number of months worked.
12 months worked - 2 weeks vacation or 4% vacation pay 24 months worked ■ 3 weeks vacation or 6% vacation pay 84 months worked - 4 weeks vacation or 8% vacation pay 168 months worked - 5 weeks vacation or 10% vacation pay 216 months worked - 6 weeks vacation or 12% vacation pay 300 months worked - 7 weeks vacation or 14% vacation pay
22.02	- Vacation Entitlement
Employees shall accrue annual vacation entitlement during the
Vacation Accrual Period and shall be granted annual vacation
during the Vacation Year on the following basis:
•	One year's service equals two (2) weeks annual vacation payable at the employee's regular rate of pay or at four percent (4%) of gross annual earnings during the Vacation Accrual Period, whichever is greater.
•	Two (2) to Six (6) years service equals three (3) weeks annual vacation payable at the employees regular rate of
46
pay or at six percent (6%) of gross annual earnings during the Vacation Accrual Period, whichever is greater.
Seven (7) to thirteen (13) years service equals four (4) weeks annual vacation payable at the employees regular rate of pay or eight percent (8%)of gross annual earnings during the Vacation Accrual Period, whichever is greater.
Fourteen (14) to seventeen (17) years service equals five
(5)	weeks annual vacation payable at the employees regular rate of pay or at ten percent (10%) of gross annual earnings during the Vacation Accrual Period, whichever is greater.
Eighteen (18) to twenty-four (24) years service equals six
(6)	weeks annual vacation payable at the employees regular rate of pay or at twelve percent (12%) of gross annual earnings during the Vacation Accrual Period, whichever is greater.
Twenty-five (25) or more years service equals seven (7) weeks annual vacation payable at the employees regular rate of pay or at fourteen percent (14%) of gross annual earnings during the Vacation Accrual Period, whichever is greater.
Employees off work during a Vacation Accrual Period due to illness or on W.C.B. wage loss benefits or other approved leave of absence shall have their vacation entitlement credited as follows:
'	2	months	if entitled	to 2	weeks
•	3	months	if entitled	to 3	weeks
'	4	months	if entitled	to 4	weeks
•	5	months	if entitled	to 5	weeks
■	6	months	if entitled	to 6	weeks
■	7	months	if entitled	to 7	weeks
47
The above credit is in addition to all time worked during the Vacation Accrual Period provided that the sum of the credit and the time worked does not exceed one year, providing such employee worked during the Vacation Accrual Period.
22.03 • Vacation Pay Top-Up
Where the calculation of vacation pay payable to an employee results in a shortfall between the employees regular rate of pay paid during the employees annual vacation period(s) taken and the percentage of vacation pay payable consistent with 22:02 above, the difference will be paid as a single "top-up'' payment not later than one (1) accounting period following the accounting period in which the last day of entitled vacation was taken or the accounting period at the end of the Vacation Year, whichever is earlier. A statement showing the calculation will be provided to the employee.
122.04 - Posting of Vacation Schedules & Procedures-Full-Time Employees
(a)	Vacation schedules for the Summer Period (May 1st to September 30th inclusive) shall be posted by January 31st and vacation selections, by Company Seniority, will be completed by April 1st of each year.
(b)	Vacation schedules for the Winter Period (October 1st to April 30th inclusive) shall also be posted by January 31st and vacation selections, by Company Seniority, will be completed by September 1st of each year, subject to 22.05(a).
(c)	An employee may schedule their entire vacation entitlement in one continuous period provided they schedule their selection during the Winter Period (October 1st to April 30th).
48
(d)	All employees in each Department at each Location shall be given the opportunity to select their annual vacation in the Summer Period and/or Winter Periods in order of Company Seniority. Employees in each Department at each Location may be divided into groups of equal number, or as nearly as reasonably possible, and listed in order of Company Seniority. Group(s) will have the most senior employee at the top of the first group followed by the second most senior employee at the top of the second group etc. until all groups are filled.
(e)	It is the employees' responsibility to make their vacation selection(s) by April 1st for the Summer Period selections and by September 1st for the Winter Period selections. After these deadlines any employee, regardless of Company Seniority, may select any unscheduled vacation periods on a first come first serve basis according to their vacation entitlement.
(f)	Upon notification of their turn by the Supervisor, an employee will have four (4)days to submit their selection in writing or the employee will, subject to extenuating circumstances, (the onus of demonstrating the extenuating circumstances will rest with the employee), forfeit their turn. The available periods remaining for that round of selections will be offered in order of Company Seniority to the remaining employees in the group.
(g)	Employees may select their vacation entitlement in periods of one (1) week or more however employees may also request authorization from the Supervisor to select vacation periods in less than one (1) week, providing their remaining vacation entitlement is less than (1) one week. Whenever possible accumulated time owing will be used to top up a part week of vacation entitlement to make a full week of vacation and that full week selection is then
49
subject to the provisions of 22,07, A selection of a vacation period of less than one (1) week is deemed an employees selection for the purposes of this clause.
All periods of the year save for the seven (7) calendar days immediately preceding Christmas for Wholesale shall be available for vacation and shall be posted.
(h)	It is understood that there is no carry over of any unused vacation entitlement, as outlined in 22.01(b) without authorization from the employees Supervisor. Any vacation entitlement earned during the Vacation Accrual Period which remains unscheduled as of January 1st in a Vacation Year will be scheduled where possible. Upon notification of their remaining entitlement by the Supervisor, the employee will have four (4) days to submit their selection in writing, or the Supervisor will schedule their remaining vacation entitlement by the expiry of the Vacation Year (April 30th ).
(i)	Any unused annual vacation entitlement from the previous vacation year will not be scheduled until after April 1st or September 1ST in a given year.
22.05	- Vacation Selection-Summer Period (May 1st to September 30th inclusive)
(a)	After all employees in each group have made their first selection or, not later than April 1st of each year, the Winter period of the schedule will be closed. The schedule for the Winter Period will re-open for employee's vacation selection on June 1st.
(b)	Employees entitled to up to four (4) weeks of annual vacation requesting annual vacation during the Summer Period shall, at their option, receive two (2) weeks in one continuous period.
50
(c)	Employees entitled to five (5) weeks or more of annual vacation requesting annual vacation during the Summer Period shall, at their option, receive three (3) weeks in one continuous period.
(d)	In the event the application of vacation selection as outlined above results in single weeks left open on the vacation schedule, an employee may select one of the single weeks on their first choice. This selection of one (1) week in the Summer Period shall constitute that employees' first choice with any further vacation entitlement being selected from the available time in order of Company Seniority.
(e)	Should available vacation time remain open in the Summer Period schedule after all employees covered by the schedule have made their first selection, the employees shall have the option of making additional Summer Period selections in order of Company Seniority. These additional selections, if any, shall be for one (1) week periods.
(f)	The remainder of the vacation entitlement to which such employee is entitled shall be given during the Winter Period.
22.06	- Vacation Selection - Winter Period (October 1st to April 30th inclusive)
(a)	Consistent with 22:04 (c) above, employees scheduling vacation entitlement during the Winter Period may, at their option, schedule all of their vacation entitlement in one continuous period.
(b)	Should available vacation time remain open on the Winter Period after all employees covered by the schedule have made their first selection, the employees shall have the option of making additional selections during the Winter Period in order of Company Seniority.
51
22.07	- Cancellation of Annual Vacation
There shall not be any change of the dates of a Full-Time
Employee's annual vacation from the dates shown in the
completed and approved vacation schedules, unless a change has
been agreed to by the employee as follows:
(a)	The employee will be asked if he would cancel his vacation only in emergency situations, or where operational requirements or lack of suitable available personnel for the safe and/or effective operation of a process exists.
(b)	If the employee does not agree to cancel some or all of his vacation, the Company will accept this decision of the employee.
22.08	- Vacation Selection & Procedures-Part-Time
Employees
(a)	Part-Time Employees will receive their vacation entitlement and vacation pay percentage rate based on his years of service per Clause 22.02 and will receive vacation pay based on his gross annual earnings during the Vacation Accrual Period. Part-Time Employees are not entitled to the "greater of "as referred to in 22.02.
(b)	A Part-Time Employee off work during a Vacation Accrual Period due to illness or on WCB wage loss benefits or other approved Leave of Absence shall have their vacation entitlement credited as follows:
'	2 months if entitled	to	2	weeks
-	3	months	if	entitled	to	3	weeks
-	4	months	if	entitled	to	4	weeks
-	5	months	if	entitled	to	5	weeks
"	6 months if entitled	to	6	weeks
'	7 months if entitled	to	7	weeks
52
The above credit is in addition to all time worked during the Vacation Accrual Period provided that the sum of the credit and the time worked does not exceed one year, providing such employee worked during the Vacation Accrual Period.
(c)	Full-Time Employees will always have priority over PartTime Employees in the selection of annual vacation periods, subject to the procedures at 22:04 (e) and (f) above.
(d)	Part-Time Employees will not be entitled to schedule annual vacation during the Summer period or the two (2) calendar weeks prior to and the one (1) calendar week following Christmas Day in any vacation year,
Part-Time Employees must submit their request for annual vacation in writing for approval by their "Home" Department Manager before forwarding their request to the Cooler-Freezer Manager by April 30th of each year. Priority will be accorded by Company Seniority. It is the employees' responsibility to make his selection for vacation by April 30th; otherwise a more junior employee may have first choice.
(e)	Any Full-Time Employee who is displaced into Part-Time status during a Vacation Year shall retain, on a one time-only basis, any vacation selection scheduled while aFull-Time Employee.
(f)	If a Part-Time Employee does not select their vacation time within a reasonable period of time, their time off will be selected for them by their scheduling Supervisor.
22.09	Vacation Pay Upon Termination
All employees terminating their employment shall receive
vacation pay at 4%; 6%; 8%; 10%; 12%;or 14% of their annual
earnings in lieu of unused vacation to which they are entitled.
53
CLAUSE 23 ■ STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
23.01	All employees shall receive ten (10) Government Statutory Holidays and all holidays proclaimed by either the Federal or the Provincial Government with full pay during the year, provided such holidays do not duplicate present Statutory Holidays. The Statutory Holidays shall be:
New Year's Day	Canada Day	Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday	B.C, Day	Remembrance Day
Victoria Day	Labour Day	Christmas Day
Boxing Day
23.02	All employees shall receive one (1) additional Statutory Holiday with full pay, to be given at a mutually agreed upon date for each employee.
This provision shall not apply to:
(a)	Employees whose term of employment does not exceed the probationary period (per Clause 19.02 (a)).
(b)	Summer-Help Employees whose term of employment does not exceed the period April 1st to September 15th, inclusive.
23.03	Each employee shall be entitled to seven (7) days' advance notice prior to receiving Statutory Holidays. Statutory Holidays shall be given immediately prior to or following the employee's weekend days off.
Each employee shall be entitled to four (4) days advance notice prior to cancellation of Statutory Holidays. Any Statutory Holidays canceled with less than four (4) days advance notice, shall accrue at the rate of two (2) days for each day so cancelled.
23.04	Statutory Holidays shall not be given in advance save by mutual consent of the Company and the employee.
54
23.05	Whenever possible, time off for Statutory Holidays will be given on the day of the Statutory Holiday but when this is not possible anyone required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall have the option of being paid at double time plus an accrued day off with pay or straight time plus the accrual of two (2) additional days off with pay.
No wholesale routes shall go out on Christmas Day or New Year's Day.
23.06	Any Statutory Holiday owing as of April 30th each year for the previous year shall be paid for in cash in the following pay period at the rate of double time.
23.07	All employees shall receive all Statutory Holidays with full pay which fall while they are on the payroll save for:
|(i) Part-Time Employees (per Clause 19.02 (c)) who shall receive on the first payroll after January 1st of each year payment of Statutory Holidays as per Clause 23.01 prorated according to the number of shifts worked in the previous twelve (12) month period.
(ii)	Summer-Help Employees shall receive on termination date, payment of Statutory Holidays as per Clause 23.01 prorated according to the number of shifts worked in the summer season.
It is agreed that should the number of Statutory Holidays be increased by the Federal or Provincial Government the prorated payment will be based on the increased number.
23.08	An employee shall be entitled to a paid day off for each such Statutory Holiday even if it falls on his weekly days off or time off taken in lieu thereof or on his annual vacation.
55
23.09	Each permanent employee shall be entitled to a Statutory Holiday even when he or she is off through illness, quarantine, WCB Wage Loss benefits or lay-off, providing he or she is not absent for a period exceeding thirty (30) working days immediately prior to the Statutory Holiday. This payment will represent the difference between WCB Wage Loss benefits or sick leave payment and his or her regular pay for that day.
CLAUSE 24 - DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND
OVERTIME - INSIDE EMPLOYEES AND DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER/SALESMEN)
24,01	Days and Hours of Work
(a)	Thirty-six (36) hour work-week, nine- (9) hour days
The Company will generally schedule its operations through the application of the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour workweek with shifts being nine (9) hours per day for four (4) days. Other shift arrangements currently in place will remain in place.
(b)	Forty (40) hour work-week, ten (10) hour days
(i)	When the Company, for legitimate business reasons and customer requirements, determines that it is necessary to introduce, in a particular work area, a forty-(40) hour work week comprising four (4) days of ten (10) hours each, the Company will provide the Union with a minimum of seven (7) days advance notice of the Company's intention. During that seven (7) day period, the Company will, at the Union's request, meet to discuss the reasons that the Company has for the introduction of the forty (40) hour work week in the particular work area.
56
(ii)	At the end of the seven (7) day period, the Company IC3!£ implement the forty (40) hour workweek in the work area concerned.
(iii)	If the Union disagrees with the Company's introduction of the forty (40) hour workweek for the particular work area, the union may refer the matter to expedited binding arbitration.
(iv)	In the expedited arbitration, the onus will be on the Company to present the Arbitrator very persuasive reasons why the forty (40) hour work week was warranted in the particular circumstances and why it should be allowed to continue in effect, based on the changed/changing business needs and customer requirements of the Company.
(c)	Forty (40) hour work-week, eight (8) hour days
|(i) If the Company determines that it is necessary, for legitimate business reasons and customer requirements, to introduce a forty (40) hour work week comprised of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each into a particular work area, it will advise the Union of it's intention and the reasons for the introduction of the work-week in that work area.
(ii) The Company may not proceed with any workweek arrangements of forty (40) hours comprising of five (5) days of eight (8) hours per day except with the Union's agreement in writing.
(iii)	The Union will give reasonable consideration to any Company request for these types of shift arrangements. The Union's agreement to any Company request will not be unreasonably withheld.
57
(iv)	In cases where the forty (40) hour workweek, comprising five (5) days of eight (8) hours each day, is solely for the purposes of responding to new and additional work and will not have any affect on current employees, the presumption will be that the Union will concur with the Company's request for implementation of the modified workweek.
24.02	(a) All time worked in excess of the regular daily shift of
nine (9) hours, ten (10) hours or other shift mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union, whichever is applicable, shall be paid for at double time.
(b)	There shall be a minimum break of ten (10) hours between scheduled shifts.
(c)	There shall be no split shifts.
(d)	No employee shall be required to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week provided however:
1.	Hours worked on days off are not included.
2.	Shifts must be completed as required.
3.	Overtime resulting from start up of new equipment not included.
4.	Overtime due to inclement weather or mechanical breakdown not included.
5.	Overtime due to delays or conditions not attributable to the normal workload not included.
24.03	(a) A schedule shall be posted so that inside employees
and drivers (Not Driver/Salesman) shall have at least seven (7) days advance notice of days off.
(b)	Any employee required to work on any of his days off shall be paid at double time.
58
(c)	It is agreed and understood that for the purposes of "seven (7) days advance notice" only, where such changes of days off are occasioned by sickness or accident to another employee then the seven (7) days notice shall not apply.
(d)	All employees will receive twenty-four (24) hours notice of change of shift except for the following reasons:
1.	Short notice absenteeism of other employees.
2,	Exceptional weather conditions.
3,	Supply of product.
4.	Suspension of an operation due to a breakdown.
24.04	(a) All inside employees and drivers (not Driver/
Salesman) working a regular schedule for their classification shall receive at least two consecutive days off each week. Each week shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday. For the purpose of this Clause, consecutive days of Saturday and Sunday are in compliance.
(A Letter of Understanding shall cover any noncomplying schedule.)
24.05	Shift selection Upon Changes to employees' Shifts, Hours of Work or Days Off
(a)	The Company retains the discretion for deciding in what circumstances a shift selection process should take place when the Company imposes changes to employees' shift, hours of work and days off.
(b)	The present practice will continue whereby shift selection occurs when major changes in work operations result in a significant number of employees in a particular work area having their shifts, hours of work or days off changed.
59
(c)	The present practice will also continue whereby the Company exercises it's discretion to allow a shift selection process to occur in other circumstances, notwithstanding that a significant number of employees are not adversely affected.
(d)	In exercising it's discretion in determining whether to permit a shift selection process in a specific situation, the Company will exercise that discretion reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a non-arbitrary manner.
(e)	If the Union believes that the Company has acted unreasonably, unfairly, in bad faith or in an arbitrary manner in determining that a shift selection process should not occur in a specific situation, the Union may refer the matter to expedited arbitration.
(f)	Company Seniority within the job classification shall be a determining factor in the selection of days off and shift to be worked.
(g)	The Company shall retain the right at all times to see that the required number of experienced employees are available on each shift to ensure proper and efficient operation.
24.06	Opportunity to Work Overtime
Where the Company schedules an overtime shift(s) to be worked, the employees within the classification will be given the opportunity to work the overtime shift(s) on the basis of Company Seniority failing which, the overtime will be assigned on the basis of qualifications and ability to the least senior employee.
60
24.07	Direction to work Another Shift
Experienced employees regularly working a full shift who are directed to another shift by the Company shall be guaranteed the pay for the original shift.
24.08	(a) All Farm and Interplant Tanker Drivers shall, upon
completion of their unloading duties, be entitled to spend the remainder of the unloading period, up to but not exceeding one-half (1/2) hour, in the lunchroom. This remainder period shall be calculated as part of the regular work shift in recognition of them having worked through their lunch period. Furthermore, it is understood that all breaks other than lunch are deemed to be taken en-route.
(b)	Based on the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour work week, ten (10) hours shall constitute the hours of work of the Bulk Haul drivers, on a schedule of four (4) days of work, followed by four (4) scheduled days off work.
(c)	Additionally, in order that each driver receives the full annual allotment of available hours under Clause 24.01, each driver may be scheduled to work up to five (5) additional ten (10) hour shifts, on an ad hoc basis throughout the year. These shifts, which will be paid for at straight time, will depend on the volume of extra Mainland trips required over the course of the year. In the event such a scheduling need arises, the shift can be waived beginning with the most senior employee; provided, however that the junior employee(s) required is available to perform such work. Applicable overtime will be paid only after all the Bulk Haul employees have been scheduled for
61
and worked their five (5) shift allotment, or in the instance where a driver is called into work a shift or work that is not part of his regular block of shifts and/or is to perform driving duties that do not fall under the extra Mainland trips described above.
(Note: SeeLetter(s) of Agreement concerning Bulk Haul)
CLAUSE 25 ■ SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL and PREMIUMS
Shift Differential
25.01	This Clause shall apply to all employees excluding Janitors. Any employee working a daily shift starting between 12 noon and 12 midnight shall receive an extra $1.65 per hour for the entire shift.
25.02	Any employee commencing a daily shift before 6;00 a.m. shall receive an extra $1.65 per hour for hours worked prior to 6:oo a.m.
25.03	Any time less than ten (10) minutes will not be computed, except where it is a daily or nearly daily occurrence, then all times shall be computed and totaled and paid for in each pay period.
25.04	Any employee working Sunday shifts (any shift that includes Sunday as a regularly scheduled workday) shall be paid a premium of ten percent (10%) of his base hourly rate in addition to any other shift premium that may be applicable for all hours worked on Sunday.
25.05	Clause 25 does not apply to Summer-Help Employees.
62
Premiums
25.06	First Aid
Any employee required to be a First Aid Attendant shall be paid a premium for the necessary first aid certificate as follows - Level II - seventy cents ($.70) per hour.
25.07	Freezer
Any employee working fifty percent (50%)or more of his daily shift in the sharp freeze room - forty cents ($.40) per hour premium.
25.08	Forklift
A premium of twenty cents ($.20) per hour above classified rates provided herein shall be paid to all employees regularly operating a ride on forklift fifty percent (50%)or more of their regular shift.
25.09	Boiler Start-un
A premium of fifty cents ($.50) per hour will be provided to non-maintenance employees who regularly assist in starting up the boiler. Such premium to apply only when this work is being performed.
CLAUSE 26 - UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT
26,01	Employment - Other Classifications - When an employee is required to fill the place of another employee receiving a higher rate of pay, if only for a day or the greater part of a day, he shall receive the higher rate. If an employee is required to fill temporarily, the place of another employee, receiving a lower rate, his rate of pay will not be changed to the lower rate.
This provision shall not apply when due to lack of work an employee may be reclassified.
63
26.02	(a) All employees shall be employed in a manner conforming to the listed classifications. It is recognized that the nature of an operation or the season of the year may render it necessary to combine two or more classifications.
(b)	Any employee affected by the combining of his classification with any other classifications or with work performed under the classification of Dairyworker shall continue to be paid at the highest rate of the combined classifications
CLAUSE 27 - WORK CLOTHES
27.01	(a) Employees shall be provided with (at no cost to them) clean uniforms, as well as gloves where required.
(b)	Where coveralls or smocks are required, these shall
also be supplied at no cost to the employee. These clean clothes will be supplied no less than once a week and shall be Union made and Union serviced.
(c)	The Company shall provide each Driver and Driver/Salesman with a clean uniform at least once per week. These uniforms shall be Union made and Union serviced.
(d)	The Company shall provide suitable protective clothing to all employees required to work in the cold room, at no cost to the employee.
(e)	The Company shall provide a suitable uniform to all Drivers and Driver/Salesmen.
(f)	All clothing and uniforms to be supplied and/or serviced by a company under contract to a Teamster Local Union, provided the rates are competitive.
64
CLAUSE 28 - DRIVER/SALESMEN (Wholesale) DAYS
AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
28.01	Time clocks and time cards must be used to provide an accurate and complete record of all time worked. Time cards, time sheets and other payroll records to be made available to the Union upon request. No employee shall record or be asked to record times other than those which show the following:
(a)	Starting Time
(b)	Finishing Time
Provided that an employee shall be deemed to have completed his day's work until he has completed all duties and additional deliveries if any required of him by the Company, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, until he has unloaded his truck; refueled and checked his truck; balanced his daily load sheet or other records; and attended at any meeting or interview called or requested by the Company.
No Driver/Salesman shall perform work of any nature prior to recording his starting time nor after recording his finishing time.
28.02	(a) All Driver/Salesmen shall work the principle of a
four (4) day work week with three (3) days off per week. Each week shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday. At least two (2) of these days off shall be consecutive. For the purposes of this Clause consecutive days of Saturday and Sunday are in compliance.
(b) Any Driver/Salesman required to work on his day off shall be paid at double time, provided that day is the fifth shift or more worked during the week.
65
(c)	Ten (10) hours shall constitute a day’s work and four (4)ten (10) hour days shall constitute a week’s work.
It is understood that employees may be temporarily reassigned to other duties during their shifts as required provided it does not displace a Full-Time Employee on thejob.
(d)	All work in excess of ten (10) hours per day shall be paid at the overtime rate of double time.
(e)	In the event any of the Driver/Salesmen completes his work in less than ten (10) hours in any one day, he shall be deemed to have worked ten (10) hours on that day.
(f)	There shall be a minimum break of ten (10) hours between scheduled shifts.
(g)	There shall be no split shifts.
(h)	No Driver/Salesman shall be required to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week provided however:
1.	Hours worked on days off are not included.
2.	Shifts must be completed as required.
3.	Overtime resulting from start up of new equipment not included.
4.	Overtime due to inclement weather or mechanical breakdown not included.
5.	Overtime due to delays or conditions not attributable to the normal workload not included.
66
28:03 Should a dispute arise in respect to the time taken to complete a route or routes, no Driver/Salesman, Reliefman or Route Foreman shall be subject to any change in status until the Union has investigated the route or routes involved by sending an Agent of the Union along with the employee involved in the dispute or an appointee of the Company.
28:04 All sums earned by way of overtime shall be paid for in the pay period following that in which they were earned.
28:05 No Driver/Salesman shall be asked or required to service or maintain trucks or equipment. This does not include driving his vehicle to the proper parking area.
28:06 Each Driver/Salesman shall be entitled to a ten (10) minute break in the forenoon and afternoon.
28:07 All routes shall be loaded or pre-stacked in an approved manner. A pre-timed departure schedule shall be posted so that each route may reach the delivery area in the time prescribed by the Company.
28:08 New, inexperienced Driver/Salesmen shall be excluded from the overtime provisions of this Clause for a period of five (5) calendar weeks from the date of assignment to the learning of a route, provided such overtime is not occasioned by:
(a)	Mechanical breakdown.
(b)	Delays or conditions, or overtime not attributable to said Driver/Salesman
28:09 New, experienced Driver/Salesmen (per Clause 18:02) will be excluded from the overtime provisions of this Clause for a period of three (3) calendar weeks from the date of assignment to the learning of the route, provided such overtime is not occasioned by:
67
(a)	Mechanical breakdown
(b)	Delays or conditions, or overtime not attributable to said Driver/Salesman
Provisions of this Clause shall be waived if the employee is directed to the new Department as a result of a reduction of the work force.
CLAUSE 29 - PERFORMANCE OF DUTY
29.01	Each employee, while on duty, shall devote the whole of his time, attention and energies to the performance of his duties and, shall not, during the term of his employment at any time, alone, in partnership or in association, be connected with or concerned in any other business directly or indirectly connected with the milk business.
CLAUSE 30 - WAGES
30.01	The Company shall pay wages to every employee covered by this Agreement at the rates set forth in Schedules "A", "B", "C", "D" and "E" hereunto annexed in respect of the various Classifications of work therein contained.
30.02	Schedules "A", "B", "C", "D" and "E" shall be deemed to be contained in and form a part of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 31 ■ EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT
31.01
This Agreement shall be in effect from April 1, 2000 to December 31, 2004 and from year to year thereafter unless notice of abrogation or amendment shall be given by either Party to the other Party in writing, four (4) months prior to the anniversary date hereof, in any year.
(b) In the event that circumstances in the dairy industry
68
change during the term of this agreement which would cause Island Farms to be placed at a distinct competitive disadvantage, the following will apply:
1.	Either side shall provide the other with written notice of the situation as soon as possible;
2.	The Parties shall meet within thirty (30) calendar days of receiving the written notice contained in point 1;
3.	The Parties will attempt to reach mutual agreement as to the approach to be taken, including any changes to be made to the Collective Agreement;
4.	If the Parties are unable to reach mutual agreement, then they shall attempt to prepare an agreed statement of facts;
5.	The agreed statement, or any disputes about the facts shall be submitted to a mutually agreed Mediator;
6.	The Mediator shall provide	non-binding
recommendations after considering the situation (including any relevant factors outside the Company but within the industry);
7.	All fees and expenses relating to the Mediator shall be shared equally by the Parties.
31,02	This Agreement voids all previous Agreements or Letters of Understanding which in any way alters the terms and conditions contained herein.
CLAUSE 32 - SAVINGS CLAUSE
32,01	The within Agreement and schedules hereto annexed shall be subject to, and shall be interpreted, and, where necessary, altered, varied, or amended from time to time to give effect to the laws enacted by the Parliament of Canada and Province of British Columbia, including amendments thereto and regulations or Orders-in-Council made or passed thereunder.
69
32.02	In the event that any Clause or Section is held invalid or enforcement of or compliance with which has been restrained, as above set forth, the Parties affected thereby shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations, upon the request of either Party for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such Clause or Section during the period of invalidity or restraint. If the Parties do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement, they shall submit the dispute to the procedure as outlined in Clause 8,
32.03	It is clearly understood however, that the Agreement or any sections thereof, which are not held invalid or restrained, shall continue in effect for the balance of the period of the Collective Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Party of the First Bet has hereunto affixed its seal in the presence of its Officers duly authorized therefor, and the Party of the Second Part has hereunto affixed its signature by its Officers duly authorized therefor.
DATED AT Victoria B.C., this 23rd day of December, 2002
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Greg Martin	Bob Ryder
Director of Operations	Secretary-Treasurer
Teamsters Local Union No. 464
70
Bill Squires
Director of Human Resources
SCHEDULE"A"
PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT, ETC.
The following wages shall be paid:
C. Pure Pak Operator
22.61
23.18
23.76
24.35
C.I.P. Operator
22.61
23,18
23.76
24.35
Checker and/or Loader
22,61
23,18
23,76
24.35
Cottage Cheese and/or Yogurt Machine Operator
22.61
23.18
23.76
24.35
Freezer Operator
22.61
23.18
23.76
24.35
Bulk Pack Operator
22.61
23.18
23.76
24.35
Creamer Operator
22.61
23.18
23.76
24.35
Bottle Machine Operator
22.61
23.18
23.76
24.35
D. Dairy Worker
22,41
22.97
23.54
24.13
Packager
21,56
22.10
22,65
23,22
E. Summer Help
Checker/Loader
10,51
10,77
11.04
Dairy Worker
10.51
10.77
11.32
Packager
10.51
10,77
11.04
11.32
23,77
24.36
24.97
25.59
All other Classifications
23.25
23.83
24.43
Any classified vacancies shall be posted to allow plant employees first opportunity prior to using Summer Help. The Company reserves the right (per Clause 3) to assign regular employees to such jobs.
71
SCHEDULE "B"
DRIVER/SALESMEN (Wholesale)
Classification	July 1/01	Jan 1/02	Jan 1/03	Jan U04
Driver Salesman (Wholesale)Ice Cream or Fluid	22.95	23.52	24.11	24.71
Driver Salesman (Wholesale)Combination RouteFluid and Ice Cream	23.16	23.74	24.33	24.94
Reliefman	23.77	24.36	24.97	25.59
Route Foreman	24.14	24.74	25.36	25.99
Country - Overnight - Ice Cream ($1.15 per week extra for Wholesale Ice Cream Driver, Reliefmen, Route Foremen in addition while employed on country-overnight routes).
SCHEDULE "C"
DRIVERS [NOT DRIVER/SALESMEN (Wholesale)]
Classification	July 1/01	Jan 1/02	Jan 1/03	Jan 1/04
				
Route Foreman	24.17	24.77	25.39	26.02
Reliefman	23.77	24.36	24.97	25.59
Semi-Trailer Driver	23.13	23.71	24.30	24.91
Tank Driver	23.07	23.65	24.24	24.85
Hauling Truck Driver	22.56	23.12	23.70	24.29
Special Delivery Driver	22.56	23.12	23.70	24.29
A premium of 150 per hour shall be paid Reliefman orForemen while driving a Semi-Trailer.
When a Pup Trailer is added to the unit, the Driver will be paid 50 per hour extra per pup axle over the Semi-Trailer rate while pulling the Pup.
72
SCHEDULE "D"
MAINTENANCE AND JANITORIAL
Classification	July 1/01	Jan 1/02	Jan 1/03	Jan 1/04
				
Maintenance Foreman	26.12	26.77	27.44	28.13
Maintenance Man	24.54	25.15	25.78	26.42
Engineer Class IV	24.54	25.15	25.78	26.42
Mechanic (Truck)	24.54	25.15	25.78	26.42
Trade Helper	22.78	23.35	23.93	24.53
Janitor	15.76	16.15	16.55	16.96
73
SCHEDULE "E"
OFFICE STAFF
CATEGORIES, CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
Cassidy Senior Clerk to receive 50 cents per hour above their current rate.
** Office Relief to receive the rate of position relieved
74
OFFICE DEPARTMENT
It is agreed that persons employed, as Management Trainee or a Private Secretary will not be required to become a member of the Union while employed and working in that capacity.
It is further agreed: That all the provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all office staff falling within the jurisdiction of the Union as outlined in Schedule “E‘save where amended below.
Nothing in any of the provisions of this Schedule, or in the
amendments listed below, shall in any way limit, void or affect
the other provisions of this Agreement.
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
1.	The standard workweek shall be thirty-five (35) hours.
2.	All Full-Time Employees shall be scheduled to work a four (4)day week, a nine (9) day fortnight or a five (5) day week.
3.	All hours worked in excess of 8 3/4, 7 3/4 or 7 hours per day for the above workweeks shall be paid at the rate of double time.
4.	All employees shall receive two (2) consecutive days off each week. Each week shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday. For the purpose of this clause, consecutive days of Saturday and Sunday are in compliance.
5.	A schedule of time off shall be posted so that Full-Time employees shall have at least seven (7) days advance notice of days off except where the unforeseen absence of another employee requires a shifting of office personnel. Any Full Time employee required to work on any of his or her days off shall be paid at double time for all hours worked.
75
SCHEDULE "F"
The terms and conditions for Part-Time Employees shall be determined exclusively by Schedule "F" and its reference to the Collective Agreement.
Mutual Objectives Clause Applicable
Clause 1-9 Clause 10
Clause 11 Clause 12
Clause 13 -14 Clause 15
Clause 16 Clause 17 -18 Clause 19
Clause 20 Clause 21 Clause 22
Clause 23
Applicable.
Clauses 10.01,10.02, and 10.04
applicable subject to provisions of 11.06 10.03 applicable.
Applicable except as outlined under Clause 11.06 exclusions.
Applicable except for the reference to returning to a posted position.
Applicable.
Clause 15.01,15.02 and 15. 03
only applicable
Applicable
Applicable.
Clauses 19.01,19.02, and 19.09
only applicable
Not applicable.
Applicable.
Clauses 22.01, 22.08,22.09Only
applicable
Applicable exceptfor 23.03, 23.04,23.05,23.06 23.08, 23.09.
76
Clause 24
Clauses
24.07 an	t t ible
Applicable.
Not Applicable
Clause 25
Clause 26
Clause 27 Clause 28
Applicable.
Applicable
Applicable.
Clause 29-32
Schedules A, B, C, D, and E Schedule F,
Applicable
Applicable
Letters of Understanding Applicable Tool Insurance	Applicable
Time Served At
Bargaining	Applicable
Part-Time Benefit
Reimbursement	Applicable
Education and Industry Enhancement Fund	Applicable
Class 1 License for Cooler Freezer Employees	Applicable
Special Early Retirement Program (SERF)	Not Applicable
Letters of Agreement
Bulk Haul Letter # 1	Applicable
Bulk Haul Letter #2	Applicable
Appendix “A " Pension Plan	Applicable
77
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
It is agreed and understood that the Company will provide tool insurance for their maintenance staff at no cost to the employee, covering loss due to fire or theft (as per insurance regulations) to a maximum of $2,000,00.
It is further agreed that the Company will reimburse these employees for any losses resulting from tool breakage occurring on the job.
A Tool Depreciation Allowance of 10% of the value of tools to a maximum of $200.00 per man per year shall also be provided.
Dated at VictoriaB.C., this 23rd day of December, 2002
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Greg Martin	Bob Ryder
Director of Operations	Secretary-Treasurer
Teamsters Local Union No. 464
Bill Squires
Director of Human Resources
78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
It is agreed to and understood that for one employee, the charge to the Union for time served at the bargaining table negotiating with management for the renewal of the Collective Agreement will be at the base rate and will not include fringe benefits.
Dated at Victoria B.C., this 23rd day of December, 2002
FOR THE COMPANY FOR THE UNION
Greg Martin	Bob Ryder
Director of Operations	Secretary-Treasurer
Teamsters Local Union No. 464
Bill Squires
Director of Human Resources
79
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
It is agreed and understood that Part-Time Employees who do not work more than fifty percent (50%) of the standard work hours in an accounting period for their job classification, as determined in arrears for each calendar quarter of the year, shall reimburse the Company for welfare benefits provided, unless they have opted for no coverage. Advance payroll deductions will be made for 2/3 of the monthly premiums for the benefits chosen by the employee.
Dated at Victoria B.C., this 23rd day of December, 2002
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Greg Martin Director of Operations
Bob Ryder Secretary -Treasurer Teamsters Local Union No. 464
Bill Squires
Director of Human Resources
80
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
It i s hereby agreed to and understood that effective April 1, 1994 the Company shall remit 5 0 per hour worked on behalf of all benefit rated employees (as per Clause 11) to the Teamsters Local 464 Education and Industry Enhancement Fund. Payments shall be made quarterly in the month following each calendar quarter.
Dated at VictoriaB.C,, this 23rd day of December, 2002
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Greg Martin	Bob Ryder
Director of Operations	Secretary-Treasurer
Teamsters Local Union No. 464
Bill Squires
Director of Human Resources
81
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
It is hereby agreed that the Class I License requirements for all Inside Cooler Freezer or Checker Loader Positions shall be as follows:
Foreman and all relief
Case Dock
Builders
Loaders
Part-time
Track
Cooler Warehouse
100%
100%
None
100%
50%
None
One person per shift.
Dated at Victoria B.C., this 23rd day of December, 2002
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Greg Martin	Bob Ryder
Director of Operations	Secretary-Treasurer
Teamsters Local Union No. 464
Bill Squires
Director of Human Resources
82
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Special Early Retirement Program (SERP)
This Special Early Retirement Program has been negotiated to afford eligible employees the opportunity to commence their retirement earlier than the unreduced retirement age of 64 years. SERP consists of three components that afford eligible employees a measure of security between the time that they retire early and their regular retirement age.
Scope
The program is available to Teamster employees of Island Farms Dairies Co-operative Association who are regular Full Time Employees.
Eligibility For Application To Program
Acceptance to the program is by written application from any employee who has either achieved or will have achieved sixty (60) years of age on or before January 1, 2001, January 1, 2002, January 1,2003 or January 1, 2004, or has a "bona fide disabling condition" that is medically certified to the satisfaction of the Company. Written applications must be submitted on an approved Company application form and received by the Human Resources manager between January 1 and January 30, 2001, or January 1 and January 30, 2002 or, between January 1 and January 30, 2003 or between January 1 and January 30, 2004.
Successful applicants will be eligible for early retirement at a "mutually agreed date" during the period from January 1 to February 28, 2001 for employees opting to retire in 2001, from January 1 to February 28, 2002 for employees opting to retire in 2002 from January 1 to February 28, 2003 for employees opting to retire in 2003 and from January 1 to February 28, 2004 for employees opting to retire in 2004.
83
Criteria For Selection To Proeram
The Company reserves the right to designate the number of early retirements under this Program. Those eligible will be taken from the list of employees who have completed the necessary application.
The list of eligible employees will initially be completed in order of those employees with "a disabling condition" and thereafter of those employees who have the most "Retirement Credits". The "Retirement Credits" are determined by:
Employees' Age + Years of Completed Continuous Service (at January 1 of each applicable year).
Proeram Components
Those employees, who are accepted to the program, will be eligible to receive the following:
A.	Eariv Retirement Allowance
This allowance will be calculated and paid to the employee as a lump sum as follows:
One week's pay (regular base rate) is given for each year of completed service to the Company up to a maximum of five (5) weeks.
B.	Core Benefits Continuation
The Company will continue to age 64 for each eligible employee (and spouse) selected under the SERP, the following core benefits:
Medical
Dental
Extended Health
84
In the case of employees retiring due to a "disabling condition" the core benefits will be continued for a maximum of two (2) years.
C.	Pension Enhancement
This component is available only to those employees who would be eligible to receive a pension from a bona fide retirement plan and would otherwise be subject to a penalty reduction for early retirement. Those employees will receive monthly payments equivalent to the penalty discount to the unreduced retirement age of 64 years.
In the case of employees retiring due to a "disabling condition", they may elect to receive either the "pension enhancement" for a maximum of two (2) years or one weeks' pay for each year of completed service up to a maximum of twenty (20) weeks.
D.	Tax Effective Options
The Company will assist eligible employees in assessing the payment options to employees so as to provide tax effectiveness (e.g. RRSP's).
Dated at VictoriaB.C,, this 23rd day of December, 2002 FOR THE COMPANY FOR THE UNION
Greg Martin	Bob Ryder
Director of Operations	Secretary-Treasurer
Teamsters Local Union No. 464
85
Bill Squires
Director of Human Resources
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
(the "Agreement)
BETWEEN:
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 464 (the "Union)
AND
ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION (the "Company")
WHEREAS the Parties are desirous of amending the terms of the Collective Agreement in effect between the Union and the Company insofar as the Collective Agreement applies to those employees classified as Tanker Drivers; and
WHEREAS the Parties wish to encourage the members of the Association to continue to use the Company's Bulk Haul and Delivery services thereby maintaining the jobs and employment of Tanker Drivers employed by the Company, the Parties enter into this Agreement and agree as follows:
1.	In the event of a labour dispute between Teamsters Local 464, and Island Farms Dairy, the Parties agree that there will be no interruption in the pick-up of raw milk and delivery to an alternate plant from designated farms who are Members of Island Farms Dairies Co-operative Association. Provided however, that the Company shall not require any member of the Union to cross a picket line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction or Labour Relations Board.
2.	Given the irreparable harm which may result to the Company and its Members should this Agreement be violated, it is specifically agreed by the Union that it will
86
ensure that employees employed pursuant to this Agreement live up to the provisions, spirit and intent of this Agreement.
3.	Wage rates, Health and Welfare benefits in accordance with Clause 11,01 of the Collective Agreement in effect between the Parties prior to the labour dispute or work stoppage shall continue for Tanker Drivers during the period of such a labour dispute or work stoppage.
4.	Notwithstanding Article 24.01 of the Collective Agreement the Company may schedule Bulk Haul and Delivery shifts to meet the most cost effective and efficient method of farm pick-up and delivery of raw milk from those farms who are Members of the Island Farms Dairies Co-operative Association to a site as designated by the Company. The schedule will, at all times, conform to the principle of a forty-(40) hour workweek. It is agreed and understood that prior to any change of schedule of shifts, the Parties agree to meet and discuss the changes to be implemented. There shall be a minimum break of ten (10) hours between scheduled shifts. There shall be no split shifts.
5.	This Agreement shall take effect immediately upon signing and ratification of affected Parties.
Grant Mebs
Steve Clark
For the COMPANY	For the UNION
Date: November 8, 2000 Date: November 8, 2000
87
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
(the "Agreement)
BETWEEN
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 464 (the "Union)
AND
ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES CO-OPERATIVEASSOCIATION (the "Company")
Clause 24,05 of the expired Collective Agreement will be incorporated into the renewal Collective Agreement as Clause 24.08.
However, the Company and the Union agree that paragraphs 2 and 3 of Clause 24.05 (now Clause 24.08 (b) & (c)) will not be operative during the term of the renewal Collective Agreement. Rather, the shift scheduling for Bulk Haul (tanker) drivers will be in accordance with a Letter of Agreement between the Company and the Union dated November 8, 2000,
At the expiry of the renewal Collective Agreement, the Union may provide the Company with written notification that paragraphs 2 and 3 of Clause 24.05 should be re-introduced.
If the Parties are unable to reach agreement in this regard, the Union or the Company may refer the issue to binding arbitration. The arbitrator will be asked to determine if the business circumstances respecting Bulk Haul and delivery services warrant continuation of the Letter of Agreement, or rather that paragraphs 2 and 3 of Clause 24,05 may be re-introduced without adversely affecting the viability of the Company's Bulk Haul and delivery services.
88
Dated at Victoria B.C., this 23rd day of December, 2002
Dated at Victoria B.C., this 23rd day of December, 2002
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Greg Martin	Bob Ryder
Director of Operations	Secretary-Treasurer
Teamsters Local Union No. 464
Bill Squires
Director of Human Resources
89
APPENDIX "A"
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 464 DAIRY INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN
VANCOUVER ISLAND DIVISION FOR
ALL OF ITS MEMBERS EMPLOYED AT
ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
BASIC PLAN PROVISIONS
This plan shall operate pursuant to the Collective Agreement on the following basis:-
1(a) The Plan will be operated by a Board of Trustees which will consist of six (6) persons, three (3) to be named by the Union and three (3) to be named by the Company. Such Trustees and their successors shall be responsible for the administration and operation of the Plan and Fund and shall have all powers necessary to create, amend or terminate the Plan and Fund consistent with the terms of the Collective Agreement in effect from time to time. Each Trustee shall have one vote.
(b) The Trustees shall select a Chairman and a Secretary. These persons shall not have a casting vote on any matters under consideration by the Trustees.
(c)	The Trustees shall meet and shall decide on the type and form of the Pension Plan and may employ legal counsel, actuaries and other consultants or advisors, as they deem necessary or advisable.
(d)	The Trustees shall have the exclusive right to
90
determine the provisions of the Plan and the benefits provided thereunder from time to time and the use of
all contributions plus investment earnings thereon received by the Plan. These shall be used only for the benefit of employees on whose behalf contributions are or have been made to the Plan and to meet necessary Plan expenses.
(e)	The Company and the Union shall enter into a Trust Agreement with the Trustees. The Trust Agreement shall provide that in the event that the Trustees are deadlocked on any issue concerning the Plan or Fund the matter shall be submitted for arbitration by a mutually agreeable party or failing mutual agreement on an Arbitrator by a Judge appointed by the Supreme Court of British Columbia.
(f)	The Company shall from time to time provide all information which is required for the administration of the Plan and shall assist and co-operate in the Plan's administration. Reasonable assistance rendered by the Company shall be rendered without charge to the Trustees.
(g)	The Trustees shall establish a Trust Account into which contributions shall be paid pending execution of the Trust Agreement and establishment of the Plan.
(h)	The Plan shall not require the Company to guarantee the benefits or assure the solvency of the Fund and further that all costs of establishing the Plan and all costs of operation and administration (except as provided in (f) above) shall be paid from the assets of the Plan.
91
(i)	The Trustees may effect arrangements with the Company and other Trustees of pension plans to permit reciprocal inter-plan transfers.
0) The Trust Agreement shall permit the Trustees, in certain events and upon certain conditions to transfer the assets and liabilities to another Board of Trustees provided such transfer shall not adversely affect the benefits or rights of the members of the Plan.
(k) The Company shall be required to make payments to the Pension Trust Fund as herein set forth. Such contributions shall be, for each employee working in a job classification covered by the Collective Agreement:
(a)	eight percent (8%)of gross earnings from June 1, 1994 up to September 30, 1994, and
(b)	eight and one-half percent (8 1/2%) of gross earnings from October 1, 1994 up to September 30, 1995, and
(c)	nine percent (9%) of gross earnings from October 1, 1995.
It is understood that contributions shall be payable in respect to the earnings of employees from the first day following achievement of benefit status whether said employees are permanent, temporary, seasonal or full-time or Part-Time Employees and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union.
The gross earnings of an employee shall be the sum of his regular earnings, overtime, shift differential, premiums and any other earnings payable to the employee in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
92
Contributions along with a list of employees for whom they have been made and the amount of
contribution in respect to each employee and his regular earnings shall be forwarded by the Company to the Custodian of the assets of the Plan designated by the Trustees. A copy of the list of employees shall also be mailed to the Administrator of the Plan.
Such payment shall be made to the custodian for each pay period not later than twenty-one (21) days after the end of each pay period. The Company shall also submit to the Plan Administrator within ninety (90) days following the end of each plan year a listing of all employees who were covered by the Plan during such plan year showing, for each, the regular earnings upon which the Company's contributions were based during the plan year. Copies of all the listings shall also be forwarded if required to the Union. These listings shall also contain such other information as the Plan Administrator and actuary may require for the operation of the Plan.
(1) It is intended that the Plan and Trust Fund shall be such that the Plan can be registered under the provisions of the Income H=k Act of Canada and any other applicable Federal or Provincial law respecting employee pension plans.
93