SOURCE
ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this	day of
EFF.			in01,
TERM.			mil
Mo. OF ~ EMPLOYEES		/ (Lq	
NOMBRC
D'EMPLOYES

BETWEEN:
ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, P.O. Box 38 Victoria, B,C.
V8W 2M1
(hereinafter referred to as the "Employer")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 464, of the City of Vancouver,
Province of British Columbia,
affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH THAT the Parties hereto agree as follows:
r ...1
NOV 1 0 1999
GOyOb'lpO’')
2
	INDEX PAGE NUMBER
CLAUSE 1	UNION SECURITY 1
CLAUSE 2	UNION ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES 1
CLAUSE 3	UNION NOTICES 2
CLAUSE 4	DEDUCTION OF DUES, ETC. 2
CLAUSE 5	SHOP STEWARDS 2
CLAUSE 6	CONFLICTING AGREEMENT 2
CLAUSE 7	CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT 3
CLAUSE 8	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 3
CLAUSE 9	DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES 4
CLAUSE 10	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 5
CLAUSE 11	WELFARE PLAN AND PENSION PLAN 5
CLAUSE 12	COMPENSATION COVERAGE 9
CLAUSE 13	PAY DAYS 9
CLAUSE 14	PAY STATEMENTS 10
CLAUSE 15	POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS 10
CLAUSE 16	NEW CLASSIFICATIONS 13
CLAUSE 17	LOSS OF WAGES 13
CLAUSE 18	NEW EMPLOYEES 13
CLAUSE 19	SENIORITY - REDUCTION OF STAFF - SEVERANCE PAY 14
CLAUSE 20	MINIMUM PAY 18
CLAUSE 21	EATING AND REST PERIOD 18
CLAUSE 22	ANNUAL HOLIDAYS 18
CLAUSE 23	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS 20
CLAUSE 24	DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME - INSIDE AND DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER SALESMEN) 22
23
24
24
25
25
25
26
26
26
28
28
28
J29
30
31
38
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
3
UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT WORK CLOTHES JURY DUTY
PERIOD OF SUMMER SEASON
CREDIT ON ROUTES
KEEPING PROPER RECORDS
PERFORMANCE OF DUTY
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME,
TIME OFF AND SPLIT ROUTES
DELIVERIES BY SPECIALS
WAGES
UNIT VALUES
EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT SAVINGS CLAUSE
WAGE SCHEDULES	"C", "D", "E" AND “F”
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
APPENDIX "A
1
CLAUSE 1 UNION SECURITY
1.01	All employees covered by this Agreement must become members of the Union within fourteen (14) calendar days of their commencing their employment hereunder. The Employer agrees to retain in his employ, within the group covered by this Agreement, only members of the Union in good standing and to notify the Union within ten (10) days of any new employees hired or former employees returned to the payroll.
1.02	It is further agreed: That any person not a member of the Union shall not work at occupations which come under the Union's jurisdiction, except in cases of emergency and then only until a member of the Union can be placed on the job. Where this provision operates against the efficiency of the Employer's operation, the Union undertakes to consider exemption in any particular case put before it. In the event of failure to reach agreement, the matter will be submitted to Arbitration under the provisions of Clause 8, Section 8.02.
1.03	That the Union's jurisdiction shall be deemed to include the processing, manufacture, sale and/or distribution of dairy products or such other products as the Employer may from time to time process, manufacture, sell and/or distribute.
1.04	This Agreement shall cover all employees engaged in work coming within the Union's jurisdiction and whether employed at the Employer's address set forth above or employed elsewhere in the Province of British Columbia and there engaged in the sale or distribution of dairy or other products shipped or forwarded from the aforesaid places.
1.05	The selling and distribution of dairy products being recognized as work coming within the Union's jurisdiction such work must be performed by an employee of the Company whose products are being sold or distributed provided that selling and distribution may be carried on by such persons other than employees who were on October 1st, 1965 carrying on such selling or distribution. Section 1.04 shall not be deemed to include sales representatives who are not employed in distribution or delivery.
1.06	Personnel above Route Foreman or Assistant Plant Foreman shall not be required to be members of the Union unless working within the Union'sjurisdiction.
1.07	Wherever the male gender is used in this agreement, it will be understood to include the female gender.
CLAUSE 2
UNION ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES
2.01	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for upholding the Union's principles. No employee who serves on a committee shall lose his or her position nor be discriminated against for that reason. The Employer shall allow time off work to any man or woman who is serving on a committee or as a delegate, provided that all requests for time off are reasonable or do not interfere with the proper operation of the plants or routes, and provided that requests for such time off are made by Officers of the Union.
2
CLAUSE 3
UNION NOTICES
3.01	The Company agrees to provide space which is readily accessible for the Union notices of direct interest to the employees.
CLAUSE 4
DEDUCTION OF DUES, ETC.
4.01	Each of the employees covered by this Agreement hereby authorizes the Employer to deduct and pay over to the Secretary of the Union, any monthly dues, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's By-laws, owing by him or her hereunder to the said Union, or as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. Monies shall be deducted in accordance with the written statement supplied in duplicate by the Union which shall show the total amount owing by each employee and the names of the employees for whom the deductions are to be made. Deductions of any monies owing shall also be made from employees in the month in which they terminate. Monies deducted shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Secretary- Treasurer of the Union not later than the 10th day of the following month and shall be accompanied by a copy of the written statement supplied by the Union.
CLAUSE 5
SHOP STEWARDS
5.01	There shall be a Shop Steward at each operation covered by this Agreement, if the Union so desires, to see whether the members of the Union and the Employer live up to the provisions of this Agreement and to report any infractions of such provisions and rules to the Superintendent or Foreman, who shall promptly deal with same. Such Shop Steward shall be elected by the Union members in the shop concerned failing which a Shop Steward may be appointed by the Union, and shall be an employee of the place in which he is a Steward. There shall be non-discrimination against the Shop Steward for Union activities.
5.02	The Shop Steward shall have no authority to alter, amend, violate or otherwise change any part of this Agreement. The Shop Steward shall report to the Union Officers any violation of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 6
CONFLICTING AGREEMENT
6.01	It is further agreed by the Employer that no Union member will be asked to make any written or verbal agreement conflicting with this Agreement. No Union member shall make any written or verbal agreement with the Employer conflicting with this Agreement.
3
CLAUSE 7
CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT
7.01	The Employer shall not require any member of the Union to cross a picket line which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction. The Employer shall not require any member of the Union to accept any product or goods from any person, or employees of any person, with whom the Union, Local No,464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction, around or against, or to deliver any product or goods to any person or employees of any person with whom the Union, Local No. 464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction, around or against.
7.02	It shall not be a violation of this Agreement or cause for dismissal for an employee to refuse to handle, receive, ship or transport any materials or equipment affected by a labour dispute which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction.
CLAUSE 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	Any alleged violation of this Agreement must be submitted to the Employer as a written grievance within thirty (30) calendar days of the alleged violation or be considered invalid unless, upon evidence of extenuating circumstances, grievance. procedure is authorized by the Executive Board of the Union.
Disputes or differences concerning the interpretation, application, operation or alleged violation of this Agreement shall be subject to the above time limit and shall be resolved according to the following procedure.
(a)	The employee or the Union together with such person or persons as he or the Union may wish, shall take the matter up with the Employer.
(b)	Should a solution not be reached by step (a) then an Officer or Officers of the Union, accompanied by the employee, if he or they so wish, shall discuss the matter with the Employer. If a solution is reached, this shall be final.
8.02	If the procedures set forth in Section 8.01 (a) and (b) above do not result in a solution being reached within seven days of the first discussion between an Officer of the Union and a Representative of the Employer, or within such further period as the Employer and the Union agree to in writing, the dispute shall be referred to an Arbitration Board of three persons appointed as follows:
(a)	The Party desiring arbitration shall appoint a member for the Board and shall notify the other party in writing of the name and address of the person so appointed and particulars of the matter in dispute.
(b)	The Party receiving the notice shall within five (5) days thereafter appoint a member for the Board and notify the other Party of its appointment.
The two Arbitrators so appointed shall confer to select a third person to be Chairman and failing for three days from the appointment of the second of them to agree upon a person willing to act, either of them may apply to the Honourable, The Minister of Labour, to appoint such third member.
4
(d)	Upon mutual agreement of the Parties a single arbitrator may be used.
8.03	The Arbitration Board shall sit, hear the Parties, settle the terms of the question to be arbitrated and make its award within ten (10) days from the date of the appointment of the Chairman, provided the time may be extended by agreement of the parties.
The Arbitration Board shall have the power to determine whether a particular issue is arbitrable under this Agreement.
A majority award shall be the award of the Board.
8.04	If the Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure it is found) that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, that employee shall be re-instated by the Company without loss of pay and with all his rights, benefits and privileges which he would have enjoyed if the suspension or discharge had not taken place, or if an Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure it is found) that an ex-employee should have been re-hired that ex-employee shall be employed by the Employer and paid all pay which he would have enjoyed and accorded all the rights, privileges and benefits which he would have enjoyed if he had been hired at the proper time, provided that, if it is shown to the Board that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period between discharge and/or suspension and re-instatement or date of failure to re-hire and re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deducted from wages payable by the Employer pursuant to this Clause, less any expenses which the employee has incurred in order to earn the wages so deducted, AND PROVIDED THAT the Arbitration Board, if circumstances are established before it, which, in the opinion of the Arbitration Board, makes it just and equitable to do so, shall have the authority to order the Employer to pay less than the full amount of wages lost.
8.05	If the award of the Arbitration Board is subsequently set aside by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction the question shall, at the request of either Party, be submitted to another Arbitration Board appointed pursuant to and with all the powers provided in this Clause.
8.06	The expenses and remuneration of the Chairman shall be paid by the Parties in equal shares.
8.07	Without restricting the specific powers herein before mentioned the Arbitration Board shall have all the general powers of an Arbitration Board.
CLAUSE 9
DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES
9.01	Except for lay-offs pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agreement, no employee shall be discharged other than for proper cause.
9.02	The Employer reserves the right to discharge any employee, without notice, for proper cause, including but not limited to the following causes:
1.	Dishonesty
2.	Drunkenness
3.	Refusal to obey a lawful order
4.	Absence without leave
5.	Drinking intoxicating liquors while on duty
5
6.	Permitting unauthorized persons on vehicles provided "no riders" stickers are on vehicles.
7.	Willful abuse of sick leave privileges
8.	Impairment due to the improper use of drugs
9.	Willful abuse of Company equipment/machinery/facilities.
9.03	Any discharged employee may, within 72 hours of his discharge, in writing, require the Employer to give to him the reasons for his discharge and the Employer will give such reasons to him, in writing within 72 hours of such request, and in the event of any dispute or difference as to whether or not there was proper cause for the discharge of an employee only the reasons so set forth in writing shall constitute cause.
9.04	If an employee is discharged or suspended for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, or, if an employee, laid off pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agreement is not re-hired and feels that he should have been re-hired, the dispute shall constitute a grievance to be settled pursuant to the provisions of Clause 8 hereof, provided that the grievance shall be launched within fourteen (14) calendar days of the discharge or suspension.
9.05	The nature of a suspension, length of a suspension, and the date of implementation of a suspension shall be provided to an employee in writing and the Union shall be so notified immediately.
CLAUSE 10
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
10.01	The Employer shall have the exclusive right and power to manage the business and direct the working forces, including the right to hire; suspend for cause; discharge for cause; lay off; promote; assign to jobs; transfer employees from department to department; to increase or decrease the working force; to determine the products to be handled.
10.02	Nothing in this Agreement shall be intended or is to be construed in any way to interfere with the recognized right of the Employer to manage and control the business. It is further agreed that nothing in this Clause shall be used to discriminate against any employee of the Union, its members or its Executive.
10.03	Nothing in any of the provisions of this Clause shall in any way limit, void or affect the other provisions of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 11
WELFARE PLAN AND PENSION PLAN
11.01	Effective the first day of the month following one hundred four (104) shifts employment the Employer shall provide a Welfare Plan for all employees covered by this Agreement (excluding those listed hereunder) with the following benefits:
(a)	Life Insurance in the sum of $30,000.00 upon death from any cause whatever.
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment in the principal sum of $30,000.00 both occupational and non-occupational coverage.
6
i.	In the event of death by accident, the principal sum will be paid in addition to the Life Insurance benefit in (a).
ii.	In the event of dismemberment or loss of sight due to accident, the following amounts will be paid:
1.	Both hands or feet	The Principal Sum
2.	Sight of both eyes	The Principal Sum
3.	One hand and one foot	The Principal Sum
4.	One hand and the sight	
	of one eye	The Principal Sum
5.	One foot and the sight	
	of one eye	The Principal Sum
6.	Sight of one eye	Half the Principal Sum
7.	One hand or one foot	Half the Principal Sum
The following schedule of additional life insurance shall apply to all employees with dependents upon death of the employee.
First dependent	$30,000.00
Each additional dependent	7,500.00
Sick benefit in the sum of 65% of the employee's gross weekly base rate for a period of fifty-two (52) weeks to become effective on the first (1st) day in the event of a non-compensable accident and on the fourth (4th) day of any sickness.
In addition, any employee with over seven (7) years seniority that is on Weekly Indemnity may, at his option, make up his benefit to full salary by using accumulated sick days to the maximum payable as per Clause 11.03 (c),
To apply for sick benefit an employee must obtain the appropriate Sick Benefit application forms from the Employer.
On presentation of a receipt from the Physician, an employee shall be reimbursed up to ten dollars ($10.00) for each physician's statement completed in any sickness or accident period.
(e)
Medical coverage and benefits equivalent to those provided by the Medical Services Plan of B.C.
Extended Health Benefits Plan equivalent to the coverage provided by the Medical Services Association of B.C,
Additional coverage of $1,000,000.00 in out-of-province Medical Coverage.
A Dental Plan providing the following coverage:
-100% payment for Plan A (Basic Services)
- 75% payment of claims for Plan B (Prosthetic appliances, crown and bridge procedures).
Claims under Plans A and B are limited to $3,000.00 per year for each person covered.
7
- 50% payment of claims for Plan C (Orthodontics) to a maximum of $1,000.00 per annum, $2,000.00 per life.
A Long Term Disability Plan providing a benefit of fifty (50) percent of an employee's weekly base rate to commence after weekly indemnity ceases, payable to age 65. This benefit to be reduced by any amount payable by the Canada Pension Disability Plan. Provisions of LTD plan to include eligibility if employee is unable to perform duties of his/her own occupation for a period of two years and/or the Employer is unable to provide a suitable job to the disabled employee. After two (2) years, the employee must be unable to perform the normal duties of any occupation.
If deemed appropriate, benefit recipients may be required to participate in a rehabilitation program developed through consultation with the Employer, the Union and professional rehabilitation specialists.
An Optical Plan to provide $150.00 of coverage for .each two year period applicable to each eligible person.
11.02	The cost of the benefits contained in Clause 11.01 shall be borne 100% by the Employer.
11.03	Sick Leave
(a)	Commencing on the first of the month following completion of the probationary period (Per Clause 19.01 (a)) all employees shall accumulate paid sick leave at the rate of one-half (1/2) day per month for each month wages are earned. For the purpose of this Clause, wages shall include Weekly Indemnity and Workers' Compensation Benefits. Accumulation while drawing such benefits shall be limited to one (1) year.
Employees who accumulate sick leave in excess of thirty (30) days shall receive such excess days accumulated in the contract year as time off in the following contract year at a mutually agreeable time at their regular rate of pay.
An employee may request by October 31 st following the end of each contract year that he receive these excess days in cash rather than time off and such request shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Employer. The basis of refusal shall be when such request will unduly effect the efficient operation of the business.
Employees over age 50 may, at their option, accumulate these sick days indefinitely, with the days in excess of 30 being accumulated at the rate of pay in effect when the days are earned.
(b)	Where any absence, occasioned by sickness or accident is not covered for payment by either the Sick Benefit (11.01 (c) of this Clause) or Compensation employees shall draw on time so accumulated in the following manner:
(i)	First day of absence - One Half (1/2) day's pay
(ii)	Second day of absence - One full day's pay
(iii)	Third day of absence - One full day's pay
thereafter, the balance of accumulated Sick Leave to be applied and paid at the full daily rate for each day the employee's absence exceeds fifty (52) weeks and is
8
not covered by the Sick Benefit. Employee with an existing accumulated balance of 30 days and over shall receive full pay on the first day of absence.
(c)	On retirement or voluntary termination an employee having completed:
-	7 years of service will receive 33% of accumulated sick days owing.
-	14 years of service will receive 66% of accumulated sick days owing.
-	18 years of service will receive 100% of accumulated sick days owing.
11.04	Funeral Leave
In the event of death in the immediate family of an employee, the Company shall grant up to three (3) working days leave of absence with pay when such leave is necessary in order to make arrangements for and/or to attend the funeral. The term "immediate family" shall mean spouse (including common-law spouse providing he or she is registered as a dependent under Clause 11), parents, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, grandchildren, mother-in-law and father-in-law.
It is understood funeral leave is payable only for working time lost.
11.05	Leave of Absence
An employee may request a leave of absence and such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
The basis of refusal shall be when such leave will unduly affect the efficient operation of the business.
Leave of absence must be requested in writing stating the time required and the purpose of the leave. The Employer must confirm in writing that the leave has been granted , identifling both the length and reason for the leave.
If such leave of absence is used for purposes other than those for which it is granted, it shall be cause for dismissal.
11.06	Paternity Leave
An employee may take up to two calendar days leave on the birth of the employee's child. Banked time (if available) shall be used to offset any wage loss on paternity leave.
11.07	Pension
The Employers shall continue to participate in the operation of the Teamsters Local 464 Dairy Industry Pension Plan in accordance with Appendix "A" attached hereto which shall form part of this Agreement.
11.08	(a) When an employee goes off work ill or on compensation or grievance procedure
is invoked on his discharge, the Company shall continue to pay both his welfare fees and Union dues so that at all times the employee shall be protected to the utmost.
(b)
For the purpose of this Clause only, any employee off ill or on compensation shall be deemed to be on the payroll.
9
All working time lost by an employee due to completing driver’s tests or doctor’s examinations shall, provided such test or examinations are required by his Employer, be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee.
11.09	Exclusions
Employees (Summer Help per Clause 29) whose term of employment does not exceed the period April 1st to September 15th inclusive.
Part-time employees (per Clause 19.01 (b)) who do not work 50% of the standard work hours in an accounting period for their j ob classification.
These employees shall be excluded from the provisions of Clause 11 Welfare Plan.
CLAUSE 12
COMPENSATION COVERAGE
12.01	(a) A return to work programme is intended to provide temporary work to an employee who is receiving either Workers’ Compensation or Weekly Indemnity benefits and who is deemed medically able to perform light and/or alternative duties. Wherever possible, and in those cases where the employee is not deemed by the Workers’ Compensation to be supernumerary, every attempt will be made by the Company to provide a suitable return to work programme in order to facilitate an expedient return to his regular, posted position.
In order to be considered for this programme, support from both the WCB and the employee’s doctor is required. Wherever possible, the employee will be provided with available work for which she is qualified, and for which no training is required. No posted employee will lose work as a result of this programme and the employee may be required, at the Company’s discretion to work temporarily in an area other than their regular position and/or department.
Until the employee returns to his regular, posted position, the employee will be paid the wages assigned to the work they are performing, or their regular rate of pay, whichever is greater and she will be paid for those hours worked. No overtime work will be assigned to an employee while on a return to work programme.
(b) When employees on compensation are directed by the Compensation Board or their physician that they may return to work, they shall be returned to their previous job and rate of pay for a period of two (2) weeks to see if they are capable of performing the job held at the time of injury, and if so, they shall be kept on the payroll.
In the event the previous j ob no longer exists, the employee shall be given aj ob of comparable nature subject to the provisions of Clause 19.
10
CLAUSE 13
PAY DAYS
13.01	Employees shall be paid every second Friday. The amount paid shall include all sums owing by way of wages and commissions earned up to and including the Saturday previous. Any exception to this will be covered by a Letter of Understanding.
13.02	The Employer shall provide for the direct deposit (electronic funds transfer) of the employee's pay in a participating chartered bank, trust company or credit union of the employee's choice on or before the appropriate pay day.
CLAUSE 14
PAY STATEMENTS
All union employees will be given a statement on each pay day showing overtime, if any, and rate of pay; how the amount is computed, including deductions, if any; and all Retail Driver Salesmen will be given a statement showing the number of units sold, retail, wholesale, plus extras, etc. how the amount is computed including deductions, if any.
Accumulated sick leave, days off, and Statutory Holidays owing shall be shown by posting a list each month at the applicable Plants and Depots. This clause shall also apply to Office employees and Retail employees.
POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS
All routes and vacancies shall be posted within fifteen (15) days of the new route, vacant route or position becoming available on the bulletin boards for a period of ninety-six (96) hours excluding Sundays with details of earnings, units, currently assigned hours of work, days off, and any other pertinent information. There shall be no changes in requirements of posted vacancies during time of posting. There shall be a maximum of two (2) additional vacancies resulting from the posting of the initial vacancy with the exception of route vacancies. There shall be only one posting created by a route vacancy provided that any vacancy of a Relief Driver's, Holiday Relief or Route Foreman's position shall be posted.
Any employee desiring the vacancy shall make written application in the form provided by the Employer to the Human Resources Manager within the period of posting. There will be a trial period not to exceed three (3) working weeks during which the employee and/or the Employer can determine if the successful applicant is suitable, failing which the applicant will revert to his former route or position. The probationary period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Parties. Any such agreement for extension shall be put in writing with a copy sent to the Union. Trial periods are to be fully exercised before any resulting vacancies are posted.
Unsuccessful applicants under (b) above shall be considered in the filling of any route or position arising out of the original vacancy.
15.01 (a)
(b)
14.01 (a)
(b)
CLAUSE 15
11
Applications for vacant routes shall not be entertained if the applicant has applied for and been given a vacant route within the last twelve (12) months.
In the event that no suitable applicant is available and the position can not be filled from within the department, then Clause 15.01 (d) will be waived.
If a higher classification of driver’s license is required for any driving job due to vehicle change or replacement, the cost of obtaining the license shall be borne by the Employer. The choice of any course required shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
Any person desiring to change from one branch to another in the same department may make written application to do so and all such applications will be considered in conjunction with those submitted as above for any vacancy which occurs in the branch to which transfer is requested.
The filling of vacancies and promotions shall be based on the length of continuous service an employee has been on the payroll of the department concerned, other considerations such as ability and qualifications being equal particularly in the case of vacancies involving customer contact.
The Parties recognize that job opportunity and security should increase in proportion to length of service. It is therefore agreed that in all cases in fillingj ob vacancies, senior employees shall be entitled to preferential consideration.
The Parties further agree that any employee presently holding or having held any position of equal responsibility and/or complexity would possess the ability to be trained in a reasonable length of time and would therefore be considered to be qualified for the vacant position.
Applications for vacant positions of Checker/Loaders and Dairyworkers shall be filled without reference to departmental seniority.
Part-time employees applying for a position shall have their shifts converted as per Clause 19.01 (b) and the part-time applicant will compete equally with fulltime applicants.
An employee who successfully bids on a posted job and by his choice reverts to his old position within the three week trial period shall lose all bidding rights for the next 6 calendar months.
The successful employees filling vacancies in the following specialized positions shall fulfill a non mobility period of twelve (12) months whereby they will not be accepted to other vacant positions. Accounts Payable, Payroll Clerk, Reliefinan positions (all areas), Tanker Drivers, Pasterurizers, Mix Maker, Cottage Cheese Maker, Assistant Foreman and Foreman.
The results of all postings to be announced and the employees affected tu be notified within seven (7) days. In the event a successful applicant is not assigned to the new position within fourteen (14) calendar days, the Company shall notify the Union.
If such vacancies or promotions are filled by other than the senior applicant, the Employer shall notify the Shop Steward and/or the Union within forty-eight (48)
hours and shall supply them with the names of all the applicants for the vacancy or promotion.
Upon request from the Shop Steward, unsuccessful applicants shall be notified in writing as to the reason why they were not chosen for the promotion or vacancy.
|(i)	If no applications are received from the department concerned, then an employee
of the other department who has applied for a change shall be given consideration for the vacancy as outlined in 15.01 (g).
(j) In determining vacancies, seniority shall be on a departmental basis, as follows:
1.	Production Department
Includes all production employees as well as checker/loaders in the cooler and freezer.
2.	Sales
Includes all Wholesale Driver Salesmen, Home Service Driver Salesmen and Special Delivery Drivers.
3.	Distribution
Includes hauler drivers (semi trailer) and tanker drivers.
4.	Office
Includes all clerical staff.
|(k)	The time limit for posting of vacancies and promotions may be lowered in cases
of extreme emergencies and only with the consent of the Union.
(1) Vacant positions shall be those which are vacant for any reason whatsoever, and must be posted. Applicants already on the payroll shall be given the new route, vacant route or position before new employees are hired. Employees on days off or holidays shall be notified of vacancies by the Employer provided the employee, in writing, has requested a change. Employees who are Summer Help or who have not completed the 52 shift probation period are not eligible to apply for new routes or vacant routes or positions.
15.02	Temporary Vacancies
A temporary posting, to cover for any employee expected to be absent for 90 days or more, will be done in the following manner:
1.	The Employer will post a notice for 72 hours at the location concerned advising of the temporary position.
2.	Employees within the department will be given first consideration for the vacancy.
13
3.	The resulting (or original if no employees have applied) vacancy will be posted in the normal manner and will be open to any employee holding the necessary qualifications.
4.	All employees shall return to their former positions on the return of the incumbent employee.
5.	Should the temporary vacancy become a permanent vacancy at any point, the position shall be re-posted in the normal manner.
6.	Employees shall continue to accrue all seniority benefits on their original position while on a temporary posting.
CLAUSE 16
NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
16.01	The Employer shall negotiate with the Union, the establishment of and the rate of wages to be paid for any classification of work other than those set forth in Schedules "A", "B", "C", "D" and "E".
16.02	In the event that the Employer and the Union can not reach agreement concerning any proposed classification of work either Party may invoke the Grievance Procedure set forth in Clause 8, of this Agreement. The rate established by mutual,agreement or Arbitration shall be retroactive to the day the employee was assigned to such position.
CLAUSE 17
LOSS OF WAGES
17.01	No employee shall suffer a reduction of earnings or rate of earnings because of the adoption of this Agreement. For the purposes of this Clause, earnings shall not be deemed to include overtime earnings.
CLAUSE 18
NEW EMPLOYEES
18.01	New, inexperienced employees (excluding Summer Help) shall receive twenty-five percent (25%) less than the rate provided herein, for the first two hundred eight (208) working shifts and fifteen percent (15%) less than the rate provided herein for the next two hundred eight (208) working shifts; full scale thereafter. This shall include part-time employees.
18.02	Experienced employees who terminate their employment with one Employer covered by Local 464, then go to work for another Employer (in the same capacity) shall be considered experienced and paid as such, provided the employee is not absent from the trade for a period exceeding six (6) months.
14
CLAUSE 19
SENIORITY- REDUCTION OF STAFF - SEVERANCE PAY
19.01	Seniority and Reduction of Staff
(a)	A probationary period of fifty-two (52) working shifts, to be completed within a period of one hundred and eighty-three (183) consecutive calendar days, shall apply in the case of each new employee, during which time seniority shall not apply, and an employee may be laid off without reference to seniority and the Employer shall not be obligated to rehire such employee. The probationary period shall be extended by any working shifts lost due to accident or illness during the probationary period. Upon completion of the probationary period seniority shall date from the date of employment.
(b)	There shall be two (2) separate seniority lists. Such lists shall be posted in all locations and supplied to the Union by the Employer on April 1st and October 1st of each year and shall include all employees covered by this agreement who have completed their probationary period, showing their date of commencement of employment and their current classifications.
The first list shall cover all employees other than part-time and Summer Help employees, and shall show the name, classification, and seniority date of each employee.
The second list shall cover all part-time employees (those employees employed for less than the standard work week for the j ob classification) and shall show the name and date of hire of each employee. Part-time employees shall be credited for shifts while off on paid holidays or maternity leave. Part-time employees shall be assigned available shifts on the basis of date of hire and qualifications.
Should a part-time employee become full-time that employee shall be transferred to the first seniority list and a seniority date shall be determined retroactively on the basis of one calendar month for each 17.3 or 19.5 or 21.7 shifts accumulated, whichever is applicable to their job classifications.
Part-time employees will be asked by the Employer on April 1st and October 1st to select their availability for the six (6) month period extending from May 1st to October 31st and November 1st to April 30th of each year. These selections must be presented in writing to the Employer within seven (7) days of April 1st and October 1st and must indicate the part-time employee's desire to waive their right to be scheduled for available shifts at the Victoria or Cassidy locations. Additionally, the part-time employee may, in writing, waive their right to be scheduled for any shift less than the designated full shift. Failure to provide the required information within the agreed upon time frames will result in the parttime employee being scheduled for available shifts on the basis of seniority and qualifications.
It is understood that, while the Employer will endeavor to schedule part-time employees according to these selections, if the requirements of the operation dictate otherwise, Clause 10.01 shall prevail and the junior, qualified employee(s) will be scheduled as required.
15
(c)	Summer Help Employees
1.	May be employed to supplement the regular work force and provide additional help between April 1 and September 15.
2.	Summer Help employees will not displace full-time employees.
3.	Summer Help employees shall not accrue seniority rights, nor be entitled to benefits normally granted other employees, nor be guaranteed a minimum number of hours per week.
(d)	Whenever it is necessary to reduce the number of employees for any reason whatsoever, the employees shall be considered as laid off and will be re- hired in order of seniority, provided that the Employer may apply to the Union for its consent to waive seniority in any case where the ability and qualifications of a particular employee are substantially superior to those of a more senior employee and provided further that such superior ability and qualifications are necessary for the job involved.
The onus of establishing the matters aforesaid shall be on the Employer.
All employees shall be given fourteen (14) calendar days notice before being laid off save those whose layoff is dictated by supply, or exceptional weather conditions or suspension of an operation for an unscheduled breakdown. Employees shall give the Employer the same notice.
A reduction in staff may only be effected by the laying off of the least senior employee in accordance with the following procedure, recognizing the following Divisions:
1.	Production /Sales and Distribution
2.	Office
3.	Maintenance
Each Division shall maintain separate seniority lists for staff reduction. There shall be no bumping (displacing) into other Divisions.
The Production/Sales/Distribution Division will be divided into three (3) sections with Departments and Sub-Departments as follows:
Department-Production
Sub-Dept:	Ice Cream
Culture Fluid
Checker-Loader
Warehouse
Department-Sales
Sub-Dept
Department-Distribution
Sub-Dept:
Retail
Wholesale
Specials
Freight
Tankers
16
A. Where the Employer eliminates a job process, route or position the employee displaced shall be determined by the following method:
Bumping Procedure for Production/Sales/Distribution Division
(By Plant/Branch - Company seniority applies)
1.	The affected employee displaces the junior employee in the subdepartment.
2.	The junior employee in the sub-department displaces the junior employee in the entire department.
3.	The junior employee in the Department displaces the junior employee in the Division.
4.	The junior employee in the Division displaces the junior employee regardless of Plant/Branch.
NOTE:	An employee affected through Step 1 will bypass Step 2, at the
Employer’s option, so long as the employee who would have been displaced in Step 2 has more Company seniority than the employee in Step 3. This would also apply to an employee displaced in Step 2, who at the Employer’s option would by-pass Step 3 so long as the employee who would have been displaced in Step 3 has more Company seniority than the employee in Step 4.
The above procedure shall not be unreasonably denied by the employer. In case of disagreement, the employer and the union will meet to resolve the dispute.
NOTE:	In the event an employee is bumped into a position requiring a Class I or
III license, a 90 day grace period will be allowed in order for the employee to acquire the necessary license and pass the Company driving assessment.
Bumping Procedure for Office and Maintenance Divisions
(By Plant/Branch - Company seniority applies)
1.	The affected employee displaces the junior employee in the Division.
2.	The junior employee in the Division displaces the junior employee regardless of Plant/Branch.
B.	Temporary Lay-offs
A temporary general reduction of staff dictated by supply, exceptional weather conditions, or suspension of an operation due to maintenance or unscheduled breakdown shall be by seniority (as per Clause 19.01 (d)) and shall affect only the Department in the Plant or Branch concerned.
As in sub-section (d) of this Clause, the Employer may apply to the Union for its consent to waive seniority and the Union, within the terms stipulated in subsection (d), undertakes to consider such application.
(g) Any employee laid off from a posted position will be afforded the option to waive the reduction of staff procedure and accept a lay-off from the Branch/Plant in which they were employed with the right of recall to that Branch/Plant only. This
17
option must be completed and signed at the time of lay-off from his/her position and will provide recall to a vacant position.
Employees laid off pursuant to this Clause shall retain the right to be rehired for fifty-two (52) weeks from the date of initial lay-off from full-time or part-time status provided that the employee shall leave with the Employer an address and telephone number at which the employee can be served notice of rehire. The onus shall rest with the employee to maintain a correct address and telephone number. The date of initial lay-off will be advanced forward by fifty-two (52) weeks if the employee has worked a minimum of one hundred and four (104) shifts in the previous fifty(52) week period. On completion of the above shifts, this would provide renewal of the 52 week right of recall.
The option for laid-off employees to waive the reduction of staff procedure and accept a lay-off from the Branch/Plant in which they were employed is subject to renewal at the time that the 52 week right of recall is renewed.
Employees who fail to work a minimum of 104 shifts in any recall period will be transferred to the part-time seniority list.
Seniority shall not accumulate during the lay-off period. Any employee failing within seven (7) calendar days to respond to a notice of recall shall be deemed to have forfeited both the right to recall and seniority.
Where any dispute arises such dispute shall constitute a grievance and shall be settled pursuant to the provisions of Clause 8 of this Agreement.
(h) Employees who leave the bargaining unit but remain in the employ of the Employer, shall have the right to re-enter the bargaining unit and retain their full Company seniority for a three (3) month trial period.
Following the three (3) month trial, bargaining unit seniority shall be frozen and re-entry to the unit shall be at the Company's discretion.
Re-entry shall be to the part-time list until a posting is obtained using previous "unit" seniority.
19.02	Severance Pay
1(a)	Severance pay shall apply to all employees.
(b) In respect of an employee whose termination arises out of or is attributable to:
1. The elimination of a j ob process, or
2. The introduction of equipment or methods which reduces the number of employees, provided he has two (2) years or more service, he shall be eligible for severance pay at the rate paid at the time of severance.
(c) All employees with two (2) to five (5) years of service shall receive two (2) weeks severance pay when termination is due to reasons outlined in this section. Additional severance pay shall accrue at the rate of two (2) weeks of full pay for each year of service commencing with the sixth (6th) year of service but shall not exceed a total of twenty (20) weeks of full pay.
18
Upon termination such employee shall be placed on the re-hire list as provided for in Section 19.01 (g) of this Clause for a period of four (4) weeks. At the end of four (4) weeks, the employee so affected shall have the option of remaining on the re-hire list or accepting severance pay.
Should he elect to remain on the re-hire list, he may renew his option every fourth (4th) week but in any event, providing no suitable employment has been provided by the Employer, he must accept severance pay no later than fifty-two (52) weeks from the date of termination.
Any employee electing to take severance pay under the terms set out above shall forfeit all rights under this Agreement.
Any employee electing to retire on pension prior to normal retirement age shall not be eligible for severance pay.
(f)
Severance pay shall be paid in addition to all other sums owing to the employee.
CLAUSE 20
MINIMUM PAY
20.01	When an employee is called to work on any of his days off, he shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours' pay or pay at the overtime rates for all time worked, whichever is the greater.
CLAUSE 21
EATING AND REST PERIOD
21.01	No employees shall be worked longer than five (5) hours without a half hour off for the purpose of eating a meal.
21.02	All employees shall be entitled to a ten minute break in the forenoon and afternoon, without loss of pay.
21.03	All employees shall be entitled to a paid ten (10) minute break immediately following the standard shift if overtime in excess of one (1) additional hour is anticipated.
CLAUSE 22
ANNUAL HOLIDAYS
22.01	Employees who may, because of the seasonal nature of the work, be employed in such a manner as to be subject to short periods of lay-off, shall accumulate working time in successive years towards holiday schedule and shall receive pro-rated holiday pay depending on the number of months worked.
12 months worked - 2 weeks holiday or 24 months worked - 3 weeks holiday or 84 months worked - 4 weeks holiday or 168 months worked - 5 weeks holiday or 216 months worked - 6 weeks holiday or 300 months worked - 7 weeks holiday or
4% holiday pay 6% holiday pay 8% holiday pay 10% holiday pay 12% holiday pay 14% holiday pay
19
22.02	All employees with one (1) year or more service shall receive two (2) weeks off with full pay or 4% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with two (2) years or more service shall receive three (3) weeks off with full pay or 6% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with seven (7) years or more service shall receive four (4) weeks off with full pay or 8% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with fourteen (14) years or more service shall receive five (5) weeks off with full pay or 10% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with eighteen (18) years or more service shall receive six (6) weeks off with full pay or 12% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with twenty-five (25) years or more service shall receive seven (7) weeks off with full pay or 14% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater, provided however, that any employee off ill, or on compensation shall be given an annual holiday credit of:
2	months if entitled to two weeks
3	months if entitled to three weeks
4	months if entitled to four weeks
5	months if entitled to five weeks
6	months if entitled to six weeks
7	months if entitled to seven weeks
In addition to all time worked during the year, provided further that the sum of time credited and time worked does not exceed one (1) year, and providing such employee worked for his regular Employer during some part of the year.
22.03	Two weeks of these annual holidays, unless the employees entitled to same have, on their first selection, elected to take all or any portion of their annual holidays within the months of October to April inclusive, shall be given the employees entitled to same in the months May to September inclusive. All employees in each group shall be given the opportunity to choose their holiday dates in order of their seniority, i.e. length of service.
Annual holidays will constitute fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days off provided the days of annual holidays within the fourteen consecutive days do not exceed the employee's entitlement to holiday.
All periods of the year save for the week immediately preceding Christmas for Wholesale, shall be available for holidays and shall be posted.
22.04	All employees entitled to more than two (2) weeks holiday may select all or any portion of their holiday entitlement in one continuous period providing they take their holidays in the months October to April inclusive.
Employees taking all their holidays within the winter schedule shall indicate the period desired and shall be given same on the basis of their seniority.
Vacation schedules for the summer period will be posted by January 3 1st and all vacation selections must be completed by April 1st. It is the employee's responsibility to sign up for holidays by this time, otherwise more junior employees may have first choice or holidays may be refused during this time slot.
22.05	Any employee requesting holidays during the months May to September inclusive shall, at their option, receive two (2) weeks in one continuous period. Employees entitled to five (5) weeks or more of annual holidays requesting annual holidays during the months May to September inclusive may receive, at their option three (3) weeks in one
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
20
continuous period. The remainder of the holidays to which such employee is entitled shall be given during the months October to April inclusive.
Vacation schedules for the winter period will be posted by June 15th and all vacation selections must be completed by September 1st. It is the employee's responsibility to sign up for holidays by this time, otherwise more junior employees may have first choice or holidays may be refused during this time slot.
22.06	(a) In the event the application of holiday selection as outlined above results in single
weeks left open on the holiday schedule, an employee may select one of the single weeks on his or her first choice.
This selection of one week in the summer period shall constitute that employee's entire first, second or third choice with any further holiday entitlement being selected from available time in order of seniority.
(b) Should available time remain open on a holiday schedule after all employees covered by the schedule have made their first selection, the employees shall have the option of making additional summer period selections in order of seniority. These additional selections, if any, shall be for one (1) week periods only and shall in no way limit the selections in order of seniority on the winter schedule.
22.07	Vacation schedules for the summer period (the months May to September inclusive) shall be posted by January 31st and completed by April 1st of each year, and must also show the dates chosen by employees electing to take holidays in the months October to April inclusive. Vacation schedules for the winter period (the months October to April inclusive) shall be posted by June 15th and completed by September 1st of each year.
22.08	There shall not be any change of the dates of an employee's annual holidays from the date shown in the completed lists of holiday periods unless a change has been agreed to by the Parties as follows:
1.	The employee will be asked if he/she would cancel his/her holidays.
2.	If the employee does not want to cancel his/her holidays. Island Farms Dairies Co-op Association will accept this decision of the employees.
3.	The employee will be asked to cancel his/her vacation only in extreme emergency situations.
22.09	All employees terminating their employment shall receive 4%; 6%; 8%; 10%; 12%; or 14% of their annual earnings in lieu of holidays to which they are entitled.
22.10	It is recognized that Island Farms Dairies uses January 1 st for a common anniversary date for computing vacation pay and entitlement.
CLAUSE 23
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
23.01	All employees shall receive ten (10) Government Statutory Holidays and all holidays proclaimed by either the Federal or the Provincial Government with full pay during the year, provided such holidays do not duplicate present Statutory Holidays. The Statutory Holidays shall be:
21
New Year's Day	Canada Day	Thanksgiving Day	Boxing Day
Good Friday	B.C. Day	Remembrance Day
Empire Day	Labour Day	Christmas Day
23.02	All employees shall receive one (1) additional Statutory Holiday with full pay, to be given at a mutually agreed upon date for each employee.
This provision shall not apply to:
(a)	Employees whose term of employment does not exceed the probationary period (per Clause 19,01 (a)).
(b)	Employees (Summer Help) whose term of employment does not exceed the period April 1st, to September 15th, inclusive.
23.03	Each employee shall be entitled to seven (7) days' advance notice prior to receiving Statutory Holidays. Statutory Holidays shall be given immediately prior to or following the employee's weekend days off.
Each employee shall be entitled to four (4) days advance notice prior to cancellation of Statutory Holidays. Any Statutory Holidays canceled with less than four (4) days advance notice, shall accrue at the rate of two (2) days for each day so canceled.
23.04	Statutory Holidays shall not be given in advance save by mutual consent of the Employer and the employee.
23.05	Whenever possible, time off for Statutory Holidays will be given on the day of the Statutory Holiday but when this is not possible anyone required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall have the option of being paid at double time plus an accrued day off with pay or straight time plus the accrual of two (2) additional days off with pay.
This provision shall not apply to Retail Driver Salesmen who shall be paid at the rate of straight time for working a Statutory Holiday and shall receive a day off with full pay at a later date.
No wholesale or retail routes shall go out on Christmas Day or New Year's Day.
23.06	Any Statutory Holiday owing as of April 30th each year for the previous year shall be paid for in cash in the following pay period at the rate of double time.
23.07	All employees shall receive all Statutory Holidays with full pay which fall while they are on the payroll save for:
I.	Part-time employees (per Clause 19.01 (b)) who shall receive on the first payroll after January 1 st of each year payment of Statutory Holidays as per Clause 23.01 prorated according to the number of shifts worked in the previous twelve month period.
II.	Summer Help (per Clause 29) who shall receive on termination date payment of Statutory Holidays as per Clause 23.01 prorated according to the number of shifts worked in the summer season.
It is agreed that should the number of Statutory Holidays be increased by the Federal or Provincial Government the prorated payment will be based on the increased number.
23.08	An employee shall be entitled to a paid day off for each such Statutory Holiday even if it falls on his weekly days off or time off taken in lieu thereof or on his annual vacation.
23.09	Each permanent employee shall be entitled to a Statutory Holiday even when he or she is off through illness, quarantine, compensation or lay-off, providing he or she is not absent for a period exceeding thirty (30) working days immediately prior to the Statutory Holiday. This payment will represent the difference between compensation or sick leave payment and his/her regular pay for that day.
CLAUSE 24
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME - INSIDE AND DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER SALESMEN)
24.01	Nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, and based on the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour work week shall constitute a day's work. All time worked in excess of the regular daily shift of nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, shall be paid for at double time. There shall be a minimum break of eight (8) hours between shifts. There shall be no split shifts.
No employee shall be required to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week provided however:
1.	Hours worked on days off are not included.
2.	Shifts must be completed as required.
3.	Overtime resulting from start up of new equipment not included.
4.	Overtime due to inclement weather or mechanical breakdown not included.
5.	Overtime due to delays or conditions not attributable to the normal workload not included.
24.02	All inside employees, office staff and drivers (not driver/salesmen) working a regular schedule for their classification shall receive at least two consecutive days off each week. Each week shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday. For the purpose of this clause consecutive days of Saturday and Sunday are in compliance.
Any non-complying schedule shall be covered by a Letter of Understanding.
24.03	A schedule of time off shall be posted so that inside employees and drivers (not Driver Salesmen) shall have at least seven (7) days advance notice of days off. Any employee required to work on any of his days off shall be paid at double time.
It is agreed and understood that for the purposes of "seven days advance notice'' only, where such changes of days off are occasioned by sickness or accident to another employee then the seven (7) days notice shall not apply.
Provide that all employees will receive 24 hours notice of change of shift except for the following reasons:
fi) Short notice absenteeism of other employees
(ii)	Exceptional weather conditions
(iii)	Supply of product
(iv)	Suspension of an operation for an unscheduled breakdown.
23
24.04	(a) Seniority within the job classification shall be a determining factor in the shift to be worked. The Employer shall retain the right at all times to see that the required number of experienced employees is available on each shift to ensure proper and efficient operation.
(b) Experienced workers regularly working a nine (9) hour shift who are directed to another shift by the Employer shall be guaranteed nine (9) hours' pay.
Any vacancy that has occurred because of sickness or accident shall be considered temporary (and shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of Clause 24.04 provided re-training is not necessary) until such time as medical evidence indicates the employee will not be returning to his former job or position.
24.05	All Farm and Interplant Tanker Drivers shall, upon completion of their unloading duties, be entitled to spend the remainder of the unloading period, up to but not exceeding one-half (1/2) hour, in the lunchroom. This remainder period shall be calculated as part of the regular work shift in recognition of them having worked through their lunch period. Furthermore, it is understood that all breaks other than lunch are deemed to be taken en-route.
Based on the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour work week, ten (10) hours shall constitute the hours of work of the bulk haul drivers, on a schedule of four (4) days of work, followed by four (4) scheduled days off work.
Additionally, in order that each driver receives the full annual allotment of available hours under Clause 24.01, each driver may be scheduled to work up to five (5) additional ten (10) hour shifts, on an ad hoc basis throughout the year. These shifts, which will be paid for at straight time, will depend on the volume of extra Mainland trips required over the course of the year. In the event such a scheduling need arises, the shift can be waived beginning with the most senior employee; provided, however that the junior employees(s) required is available to perform such work. Applicable overtime will be paid only after all the bulk haul employees have been scheduled for and worked their five (5) shift allotment, or in the instance where a driver is called into work a shift or work that is not part of his regular block of shifts and/or is to perform driving duties that do not fall under the extra Mainland trips described above.
CLAUSE 25
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
25.01	This Clause shall apply to all employees excluding Night Watchmen and Janitors. Any employee working a daily shift starting between 12 noon and 12 midnight shall receive an extra $1.65 per hour for the entire shift.
25.02	Any employee commencing a daily shift before 6:00 a.m. shall receive an extra $1.65 per hour for hours worked prior to 6:00 a.m.
25.03	Any time less than ten (10) minutes will not be computed, except where it is a daily or nearly daily occurrence, then all times shall be computed and totalled, and paid for in each pay period.
24
25.04	Any employee working Sunday shifts (any shift that includes Sunday as a regularly scheduled work day) shall be paid a premium of ten percent (10%) of his base hourly rate (in addition to any other shift premium that may be applicable for all hours worked on Sunday.
25.05	Clause 25 does not apply to Summer Help.
CLAUSE 26
UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT
26.01	Reliefman - A relief Dairy worker is an employee who relieves on two or more job classifications during the work week.
26.02	Employment - Other Classifications - When an employee is required to fill the place of another employee receiving a higher rate of pay, if only for a day or the greater part of a day, he shall receive the higher rate, but if he is required to fill temporarily, the place of another employee, receiving a lower rate, his rate will not be changed to the lower rate.
This provision shall not apply when due to lack of work an employee may be reclassified.
26.03	(a) Combination of Classifications (Seasonal or otherwise) - All employees shall be
employed in a manner conforming to the listed classifications. It is recognized that the nature of an operation or the season of the year may render it necessary to combine two or more classifications.
(b) Any employee affected by the combining of his classification with any other classifications or with work performed under the classification of Dairyworker shall continue to be paid at the highest rate of the combined classifications.
CLAUSE 27 WORK CLOTHES
27.01	All inside employees shall be provided with (at no cost to them) clean uniforms, as well as gloves to those requiring same. Where coveralls or smocks are required, these shall also be supplied at no cost to the employee. These clean clothes will be supplied no less than once a week and shall be Union made and Union serviced.
27.02	The Company shall provide each driver with a clean uniform at least once per week. These uniforms shall be Union made and Union serviced.
27.03	The Company shall provide suitable protective clothing to all employees required to work in the cold room, at no cost to the employee.
The Company shall provide a suitable warm coat to all Driver Salesmen.
27.04	All clothing and uniforms to be supplied and/or serviced by a company under contract to a Teamster Local Union, provided the rates are competitive.
25
CLAUSE 28
JURY DUTY
28.01	All working time lost by an employee due to necessary attendance on jury duty or any court proceedings arising out of his employment shall be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee, No employees shall be paid until he/she has provided proof satisfactory to the Employer of such attendance.
28.02	Any employee on jury duty shall, subject to this provision, make himself available for work before or after being required for such duty, wherever practicable. All jury duty pay or witness fees received by the employee from the courts shall be reimbursed to the Employer.
CLAUSE 29
PERIOD OF SUMMER SEASON
29.01	The summer season shall be defined as the time of year between and including the 1st of April and the 15th of September.
29.02	Employees employed specifically for the period defined in Section 29.01, shall be classed as Summer Help and paid at the rate applicable, it being understood that any employee working at a classified occupation shall be paid the classified rate whilst,so employed, subject to the provisions of Clause 18.01.
CLAUSE 30
CREDIT ON ROUTES
30.01	Credit on the routes and the rules and regulations thereof are the sole responsibility of the Employer as the Employer is the sole person who can control and regulate the credit through their employees. The Employer shall keep posted in a conspicuous place the rules and regulations regarding credit. The Employer is solely responsible for bad debts providing that the regulations in effect regarding the granting of credit have been observed by the employee and enforced by the Employer.
30.02	The Employer shall provide each Retail Driver Salesman with suitable credit application forms which, if the Employer so requires, shall be completed by any customer requiring credit. The completed form shall be returned to the Employer for his approval or rejection and such approval or rejection of credit shall be indicated by the Employer in an appropriate place in the driver's route book records and shall constitute either approval or rejection by the Employer of the customer's application for credit.
30.03	If the stated policy of the Employer is not to grant or recognize credit to any retail customer, no Retail Driver Salesman employed by that Employer shall be held responsible for any monies owing by a customer to whom he has not granted credit nor shall there be any discrimination against any driver who refuses to grant credit to any retail customer in accordance with the stated policy of the Employer.
30.04	Any deposit charged to a customer for milk containers shall be entered in the route book as a charge against that customer and shall form part of the outstanding for that route providing that the salesman enters all containers outstanding in the prescribed column.
26
30.05	For each account in a retail route book, a master sheet shall be used to display all the pertinent information relating to the account save for any outstanding amounts which shall be entered by the salesman on a separate sheet for that account to the end that the salesman will only be required to change the separate sheet as it becomes filled.
CLAUSE 31
KEEPING PROPER RECORDS
31.01	Each Retail Driver Salesman shall, subject to the control of the Employer keep his/her route book/records in the manner prescribed by the Employer. All route books must be complete and balanced not less than once every two (2) weeks. Each Retail Driver Salesman will make due and correct entries therein of all transactions and dealings of and in reference to the business of the Employer.
CLAUSE 32
PERFORMANCE OF DUTY
32.01	Each employee, while on duty, shall devote the whole of his time, attention and energies to the performance of his duties and, shall not, during the term of his employment at any time, alone, in partnership or in association, be connected with or concerned in any other business directly or indirectly connected with the milk business.
CLAUSE 33
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, TIME OFF, AND SPLIT ROUTES
33.01	Time clocks and time cards must be used to provide an accurate and complete record of all time worked. Time cards, time sheets and other payroll records to be made available to the Union upon request. No employee shall record or be asked to record times other than those which show the following:
(a)	Starting Time
No Retail Driver Salesman shall commence or be required to commence work before 6:00 a.m.
(b)	Finishing Time
Provided that an employee shall not be deemed to have completed his day's work until he has completed all duties and additional deliveries if any required of him by the Company, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, until he has unloaded his truck; refueled and checked his truck; balanced his daily load sheet or other records of goods supplied and sales made; completed any other necessary records; and attended at any meeting or interview called or requested by the Company.
33.02	No Driver Salesman shall perform work of any nature prior to recording his starting time nor after recording his finishing time.
33.03	(a) All Driver Salesmen shall work the principle of a four (4) day work week with
three (3) days off per week. At least two (2) of these days off shall be consecutive.
27
Ten (10) hours shall constitute a day’s work and four (4) ten hour days shall constitute a week’s work. It is understood that employees may be temporarily reassigned to other duties during their shifts as required provided it does not displace a full-time employee on the job.
All work in excess of ten (10) hours per day shall be paid for at the overtime rate of double time. This overtime provision shall not apply to Home Service Driver/Salesmen.
In the event that any of these Driver Salesmen completes his work in less than ten (10) hours in any one day, he shall be deemed to have worked ten (10) hours on that day.
No employee shall be required to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week provided however:
1.	Hours worked on days off are not included.
2.	Shifts must be completed as required.
3.	Overtime resulting from start up of new equipment not included.
4.	Overtime due to inclement weather or mechanical breakdown not included.
5.	Overtime due to delays or conditions not attributable to the normal workload not included.
33.04	Should a dispute arise in respect to the time taken to complete a route or routes, no Driver Salesman, Reliefman, Holiday Reliefman, or Route Foreman shall be subject to any change in status until the Union has investigated the route or routes involved by sending an Agent of the Union along with the employee involved in the dispute, or an appointee of the Company.
33.05	All sums earned by way of overtime shall be paid for in the pay period following that in which they were earned.
33.06	No driver shall be asked or required to service or maintain trucks or equipment. This does not include driving his vehicle to the proper parking area.
33.07	Each Driver Salesman shall be entitled to a ten (10) minute break in the forenoon and afternoon.
33.08	All retail and retail combination routes shall be loaded or prestacked in an approved manner. A pre-timed departure schedule shall be posted so that each route may reach the delivery area not later than 7:00 A.M.
33.09	New, inexperienced Driver Salesmen shall be excluded from the overtime provisions of this Clause for a period of five (5) calendar weeks from date of assignment to the learning of a route, provided such overtime is not occasioned by:
(a)	Mechanical breakdown
(b)	Delays or conditions, or overtime, not attributable to said Driver Salesman.
33.10	Salesmen who transfer from retail to wholesale or new, experienced Driver Salesmen (Clause 18.02), shall be excluded from the overtime provisions of this Clause for a period of three (3) calendar weeks from the date of assignment to the learning of a route, provided such overtime is not occasioned by:
(b)
(o)
(d)
28
(a)	Mechanical breakdown
(b)	Delays or conditions, or overtime, not attributable to said Driver Salesman.
Provisions of this Clause shall be waived if the employee is directed to the new department as a result of a reduction in the work force.
33.11	SPLIT ROUTES
When a Salesman's route is split, the affected Salesman, Holiday Reliefman and Route Foreman shall receive at least the same wages for a period of three (3) months as the average of the earnings of the route for the twelve (12) calendar months previous to the load being split.
This shall not apply to men who have been in the employ of the Company less than twelve (12) months.
CLAUSE 34
DELIVERIES BY SPECIALS
34.01	Any sales or deliveries made to any customer in any area must be recorded on the working day following the sale or delivery as sales on the route covering this area.
CLAUSE 35
WAGES
35.01	The Employer shall pay wages to every employee covered by this Agreement at the rates set forth in Schedules "A", "B", "C", "D" and "E" hereunto annexed in respect of the various classifications of work therein contained.
35.02	Schedules "A", "B", "C", "D" and "E" shall be deemed to be contained in and form a part of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 36
UNIT VALUES
36.01	For all fluid sales on retail routes:
1 - 4 Litre Milk
1	- Litre Milk (any kind)
2	- 500 ml. Milk (any kind)
4 - 200 ml. Milk (any kind)
1 - 20 Litre Milk (any kind)
1 - Litre Creamo
1	- 500 ml. Creamo
2	- 250 ml. Creamo 1 - 20 Litre Creamo
100 TetraPak Creamers
Fountain Whip
4 Units 1 Unit 1 Unit 1 Unit 20 Units 3 Units 1 1/2 Units 1 1/2 Units 60 Units
4 1/2 Units
3 Units
29
1 - Litre Whipping Cream 1 - 500 ml. Whipping Cream 1 - 250 ml. Whipping Cream 1 - 20 Litre Whipping Cream 1 - 500 ml. Sour Cream 1 - 250 ml. Sour Cream 1 - 2 Litre Sour Cream
6 Units 3 Units 1 1/2 Units 120 Units 2 Units 1 Unit 8 Units
Yogurt sleeve 4 oz. yogurt 1 - 250 gr. Yogurt 1 - 500 gr. Yogurt 1 - Kg. Yogurt
1 Unit 1/2 Unit
1	Unit
2	Units 4 Units
Orange Juice Orange Drink Apple Juice Lemonade 200 ml. Fruit Drink
1 Unit 1 Unit 1 Unit 1 Unit 1/4 Unit
1 lb. Margarine 1 lb. Butter
1 - 250 gr. Cottage Cheese 1 - 500 gr. Cottage Cheese 1 Kg. Cottage Cheese 13 Oz. Cheddar Cheese Cream Cheese 1 Doz. eggs 1 - Litre Eggnog
1 Unit
1	Unit 1/2 Unit
1 Unit
2	Units 1 1/2 Units
1 Unit
1	Unit
2	Units
CLAUSE 37
EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT
37.01	(a) This Agreement shall be in effect from October L 1996 to March H, 2000 and from year to year thereafter unless notice of abrogation or amendment shall be given by either Party to the other Party in writing, four (4) months prior to the anniversary date hereof, in any year.
(b) In the event that circumstances in the dairy industry change during the term of this agreement which would cause Island Farms to be placed at a distinct competitive disadvantage, the following will apply:
1.	Either side shall provide the other with written notice of the situation as soon as possible;
2.	The parties shall meet within thirty (30) calendar days of receiving the written notice contained in point 1;
3.	The parties will attempt to reach mutual agreement as to the approach to be taken, including any changes to be made to the collective agreement;
4.	If the parties are unable to reach mutual agreement, then they shall attempt to prepare an agreed statement of facts;
5.	The agreed statement, or any disputes about the facts shall be submitted to a mutually agreed mediator;
30
6.	The mediator shall provide non-binding recommendations after considering the situation (including any relevant factors outside the Company but within the industry);
7.	All fees and expenses relating to the mediator shall be shared equally by the parties.
37.02	This Agreement voids all previous Agreements or Letters of Understanding which in any way alters the terms and conditions contained herein.
CLAUSE 38 SAVINGS CLAUSE
38.01	The within Agreement and schedules hereto annexed shall be subject to, and shall be interpreted, and, where necessary, altered, varied, or amended from time to time to give effect to the laws enacted by the Parliament of Canada and Province of British Columbia, including amendments thereto and regulations or orders-in-council made or passed thereunder.
38.02	In the event that any Clause or Section is held invalid or enforcement of or compliance with which has been restrained, as above set forth, the Parties affected thereby shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations, upon the request of either Party for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such Clause or Section during the period of invalidity or restraint. If the Parties do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement, they shall submit the dispute to the procedure as outlined in Clause 8.
38.03	It is clearly understood however, that the Agreement or any sections thereof, which are not held invalid or restrained, shall continue in effect for the balance of the period of the Collective Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Party of the First Part has hereunto affixed its seal in the presence of its Officers duly authorized therefor, and the Party of the Second Part has hereunto affixed its signature by its Officers duly authorized therefor.
DATED AT
B.C.sthis	day of
1998
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
31
SCHEDULE"A"
The folowing wages shall be paid:
PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT, ETC.
Classification	Wages Per Hour
A.	Foreman Assistant Foreman Head Checker
B.	Pasteurizer Class 1 Ice Cream Maker Cottage Cheese Maker Ice Cream Mix Maker Yogurt Maker
C.	Pasteurizer Class II
D.	Pure Pak Operator C.I.P. Operator Checker and/or Loader Cottage Cheese and/or Yogurt Machine Operator Freezer Operator
Bulk Pack Operator Creamer Operator Bottle Machine Operator
E.	Dairy Worker Packager Janitor
Oct 1/96
$24.69
23.67 22.50
22.67
22.67
22.67
22.67
22.67
22.34
22.17
22.17 22.17'
22.17
22.17
22.17
22.17
22.17
21.97
21.14
15.45
F,	Summer Help Checker/Loader Dairy Worker Packager
G.	Holiday Relief Classifications A, B, & C
All other Classifications
10.30
10.30
10.30
23.30
22.79
Any classified vacancies shall be posted to allow plant employees first opportunity prior to using Summer Help. The Employer reserves the right (per Clause 10) to assign regular employees to such jobs.
Any employee required to be a First Aid Attendant shall be paid a weekly premium for the necessary first aid certificate as follows:
Level II - .700 per hour
32
Premiums:
Freezerman (Any employee working fifty percent (50%) or more of his daily shift in the sharp freeze room) - 400 per hour premium.
A premium of 200 per hour above classified rates provided herein shall be paid to all employees regularly operating a ride on forklift or tow motor fifty percent (50%) or more of their regular shift.
A premium of fifty cents ($.50) per hour will be provided to non-maintenance employees who regularly assist in starting up the boiler. Such premium to apply only when this work is being performed.
SCHEDULE"B"
Classification	Wages Per Hour Oct 1/96
Wholesale Driver Salesman	
(Ice Cream or Fluid) Wholesale Driver Salesman -Combination Route	$22.50
(Milk and Ice Cream)	22.71
Holiday Reliefman	23.30
Route Foreman	23.67
Country - Overnight - Ice Cream ($1.15 per week extra for Ice Cream Driver Salesmen, Holiday Reliefmen, Route Foremen in addition while employed on country-overnight routes).
33
SCHEDULE"C"
RETAIL DRIVER SALESMEN, HOLIDAY RELIEFMEN, ROUTE FOREMEN
Effective from the beginning of the first period following the date of signing of the new contract a new Sales Incentive Program is to be introduced based upon the following:
1.	BASIS FOR COMMISSION
Sales incentive commission to be the basis of remuneration as set out below -DATE	HOME SERVICE SALES	WHOLESALE SALES
per unit Commission per 4 week period
per Unit Commission per 4 week period
CENTS
CENTS
Oct 1/1996	20.2
13.0
The basis for determining units is unchanged.
2.	MINIMUM EARNINGS
Guaranteed Minimum earnings per period are to be provided as follows:
$2,692.31	January 1, 1999	$3,000.00
The guaranteed minimum income will apply when commission earnings fall below the threshold levels for the periods set out above.
3.	GROUP BENEFITS
Coverage is provided with respect to the Life, AD & D, W.I., LTD, Medical (MSP) extended Health (MSA) and Dental Plans. The earnings base for WI and LTD benefits is the earnings of the prior year.
4.	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS, SICK LEAVE, FUNERAL	LEAVE, JURY DUTY
An employee shall receive 10/2,080 of his previous year's gross earnings for each day of entitlement.
5.	PENSION PLAN
Membership in the Teamsters Local 464 Dairy Industry Pension Plan is included with pensionable earnings being based on total gross earnings.
6.	ROUTE RELIEF DRIVERS AND ROUTE FOREMEN
Remuneration for route relief drivers and foremen will be $2.00 Per Hour plus average route commission based on a forty hour week.
34
7.	ROUTE CHANGES
No change in routes (excepting route closures) other than by mutual agreement following discussion between the Parties.
8.	HOURS OF WORK
It is expected that Driver/Salesmen will restrict product delivery and canvassing activities to within the 7:00 a.m.to 7:00 p.m. period.
9.	NEW ENTRIES
New and trial period employees shall be paid at a rate of $15.00 per hour. The commission structure will prevail after the conclusion of the trial period.
SCHEDULE"D"
DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER SALESMEN)
Classification	Wages Per Hour
Oct 1/96
Route Foreman Holiday Reliefman Semi-Trailer Driver Tanker Driver Hauling Truck Driver Special Delivery Driver
A premium of 150 per hour shall be paid Holiday Reliefmen or Foremen while driving a semitrailer.
When a pup trailer is added to the unit, the driver will be paid 50 per hour extra per pup axle over the semi-trailer rate while pulling the pup.
$23.70
23.30
22.68
22.62
22.12
22.12
Maintenance Staff
Maintenance Foreman Maintenance Man Engineer Class IV Mechanic (Truck) Trade Helper
$25.61
24.06
24.06
24.06 22.33
35
SCHEDULE"E"
OFFICE STAFF
CATEGORIES, CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
Wages Per Hour
CATEGORY 1
General Clerk CATEGORY 2
Cassidy Senior Clerk - to receive 500 per hour above their current rate
Cassidy Clerk	$18.27
Order/Shipping Clerk
Sales Accounting Clerk
Evening Clerk
Receptionist
Shippers Pay Clerk
Home Service Clerk
Accounting Clerk
Rebate Clerk
Cashier
Office Relief - to receive the rate of position relieved CATEGORY 3 Payroll
Accounts Payable Senior Clerk
CATEGORY 4
Cost Accountant
$19.62
$20.37
Oct 1/96
$17.99
CATEGORIES, CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
It is agreed that persons employed as Management Trainee or a Private Secretary will not be required to become a member of the Union while employed and working in that capacity.
It is further agreed: That all the provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all office staff falling within the jurisdiction of the Union as outlined in Schedule "E" save where amended below.
Nothing in any of the provisions of this Schedule, or in the amendments listed below, shall in any way limit, void or affect the other provisions of this Agreement.
36
SCHEDULE "E" - CONTINUED
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
The standard work week shall be 35 hours.
All employees shall be scheduled to work a four (4) day week, a nine (9) day fortnight or a five (5) day week.
All hours worked in excess of 8 3/4, 7 3/4 or 7 hours per day for the above work weeks shall be paid at the rate of double time.
All employees shall receive two (2) consecutive days off each week. Each week shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday. For the purpose of this clause, consecutive days of Saturday and Sunday are in compliance.
A schedule of time off shall be posted so that employees shall have at least seven (7) days advance notice of days off except where the unforeseen absence of another employee requires a shifting of office personnel. Any employee required to work on any of his or her days off shall be paid at double time for all hours worked.
37
SCHEDULE "F"
The terms and conditions for re-call, and part-time employees shall be determined exclusively by Schedule “F” and its reference to the Collective Agreement.
Clause 1-10	Applicable.
Clause 11	Applicable except as outlined under Clause 11.09
exclusions.
Clause 12
Clause 13-14 Clause 15
Clause 16 Clause 17-18 Clause 19
Clause 20 Clause 21 Clause 22
Clause 23
Applicable for compensation coverage and return to work programme except for references made to “return to his regular posted position”.
Applicable.
Applicable after 15.03 (g) paragraph 5 has been applied.
Applicable.
Applicable.
Applicable, except 19.01 (d), (e), (f), (g) and(h), 19.02 (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) shall not apply to parttime employees.
Not applicable.
Applicable.
Applicable except 22.03, 22.04, 22.05, 22.06, 22.07. Part-time employees shall choose holidays according to the procedure outlined in the Letter of Understanding that covers part-time holiday pick.
Applicable except for 23.03, 23.04, 23.06, 23.08, 23.09.
Clause 24 Clause 25 Clause 26 Clause 27 Clause 28 Clause 29-38
Schedule	“C”, “D” and “E”
Applicable except for 24.02, 24.03, 24.04, 24.05. Applicable
Applicable except 26.01, 26.02 Applicable.
Not applicable.
Applicable.
Applicable
All Letters of Understanding
Applicable.
38
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
It is agreed and understood that the Employer will provide tool insurance for their maintenance staff at no cost to the Employee, covering loss due to fire or theft (as per insurance regulations) to a maximum of $2,000.00.
It is further agreed that the Employer will reimburse these employees for any losses resulting from tool breakage occurring on the job.
A Tool Depreciation Allowance of 10% of the value of tools to a maximum of $200.00 per man per year shall also be provided.
Dated at
B.C., this	day of
1998
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
39
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
It is agreed to and understood that for one employee, the charge to the Union for time served at the bargaining table negotiating with management for the renewal of the Collective Agreement will be at the base rate and will not include fringe benefits.
Dated at
B.C., this	day of
1998
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
40
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
It is agreed and understood that part-time employees who do not work more than fifty percent (50%) of the standard work hours in an accounting period for their job classification, as determined in arrears for each calendar quarter of the year, shall reimburse the Employer for welfare benefits provided, unless they have opted for no coverage. Advance payroll deductions will be made for 2/3 of the monthly premiums for the benefits chosen by the employee.
Dated at
B.C., this	day of
,1998
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
41
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
It is hereby agreed to and understood that effective April 1, 1994 the Company shall remit 50 per hour worked on behalf of all benefit rated employees (as per Clause 11) to the Teamsters Local 464 Education and Industry Enhancement Fund. Payments shall be made quarterly in the month following each calendar quarter.
Dated at
B.C., this	day of	,1998
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
42
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
It is hereby agreed that the Class I License requirements for all Inside Positions shall be as follows:
Foreman and all relief
Case Dock
Builders
Loaders
Part-time
Track
Cooler Warehouse
Dated at	B.C.,this	day of	,1998
100%
100%
None
100%
50%
None
One person per shift.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
43
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
It is agreed and understood that in respect to maternity leave, provided the employee gives the Employer a minimum of two (2) weeks written notice prior to the leave, that employee’s service shall be considered unbroken for the purposes of seniority and annual vacation and that benefit and pension coverage shall continue as if the employee were not absent from the workplace to a maximum of twenty-eight (28) weeks.
Upon the employee’s desired return to work, again, provided the employee has given the Employer a minimum of two (2) weeks written notice prior to her desire to return to the workplace, the employee shall be returned to her regular, posted position, or, as required shall retain her right to the provisions of Clause 19.
Dated at
B.C., this	day of
,1998
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
44
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Special Early Retirement Program (SERP)
This Special Early Retirement Program has been negotiated to afford eligible employees the opportunity to commence their retirement earlier than the unreduced retirement age of 64 years. SERP consists of three components that afford eligible employees a measure of security between the time that they retire early and their regular retirement age.
Scope
The program is available to Teamster employees of Island Farms Dairies Co-operative Association who are regular full-time employees.
Eligibility For Application To Program
Acceptance to the program is by written application from any employee who has either achieved or will have achieved sixty (60) years of age on or before January 1, 1998, January 1, 1999, or January 1, 2000, or has a “bona fide disabling condition” that is medically certified to the satisfaction of the Company. Written applications must be submitted on an approved Company application form and received by the Human Resources manager between January 1 and January 30, 1998, or January 1 and January 30, 1999 or, between January 1 and January 30, 2000.
Successful applicants will be eligible for early retirement at a “mutually agreed date” during the period from January 1 to February 28, 1998 for employees opting to retire in 1998, from January 1 to February 28, 1999 for employees opting to retire in 1999 and from January 1 to February 28, 2000 for employees opting to retire in 2000.
Criteria For Selection To Program
The Company reserves the right to designate the number of early retirements under this Program. Those eligible will be taken from the list of employees who have completed the necessary application.
The list of eligible employees will initially be completed in order of those employees with “a disabling condition” and thereafter of those employees who have the most “Retirement Credits”. The “Retirement Credits” are determined by:
Employees’ Age + Years of Completed Continuous Service (at January 1 of each applicable year).
Program Components
Those employees, who are accepted to the program, will be eligible to receive the following:
A. Early Retirement Allowance
This allowance will be calculated and paid to the employee as a lump sum as follows:
One week’s pay (regular base rate) is given for each year of completed service to the Company up to a maximum of five (5) weeks.
45
B.	Core Benefits Continuation
The Company will continue to age 64 for each eligible employee (and spouse) selected under the SERP, the following core benefits:
Medical
Dental
Extended Health
In the case of employees retiring due to a “disabling condition” the core benefits will be continued for a maximum of two (2) years.
C.	Pension Enhancement
This component is available only to those employees who would be eligible to receive a pension from a bona fide retirement plan and would otherwise be subject to a penalty reduction for early retirement. Those employees will receive monthly payments equivalent to the penalty discount to the unreduced retirement age of 64 years.
In the case of employees retiring due to a “disabling condition”, they may elect to receive either the “pension enhancement” for a maximum of two (2) years or one weeks’ pay for each year of completed service up to a maximum of twenty (20) weeks.
D.	Tax Effective Options
The Company will assist eligible employees in assessing the payment options to employees so as to provide tax effectiveness (e.g. RRSP’s).
Dated at
B.C.,this	day of	,1998
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
46
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Island Farms Dairies Co-operative Association is committed to providing Part-time employees
with the opportunity to be able to take time off in the form of annual vacation. As such, the
following has been designed to facilitate that process.
1.	A Full-time employee will always have the first opportunity over a Part-time employee to select a block of time in which to take annual vacation. All Full-time employees are governed by the provisions of Clause 22 in the current Collective Agreement.
2.	No time off will be granted to a Part-time employee between the period of May 15 and September 15 unless there is time available on the Full-time vacation board.
3.	No time off will be granted to a Part-time employee for the two weeks before, the week of and the week after Christmas, unless there is time available on the Full-time vacation board.
4.	If a Part-time employee does not select their vacation time within a reasonable period of time their time off will be selected for them by their scheduling Supervisor.
5.	All requests must be submitted in writing and approved through “Home” Department and Cooler-Freezer Manager by April 30 of each year. Priority will be accorded by the date of hire. Approval of the request will be dependent on the efficient operation of the business. It is the employee’s responsibility to sign up for holidays by April 30, otherwise a morejunior employee may have first choice.
Dated at
B.C., this	day of	, 1998
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
APPENDIX "A"
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 464 DAIRY INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN VANCOUVER ISLAND DIVISION
FOR
ALL OF ITS MEMBERS EMPLOYED AT ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
I.
BASIC PLAN PROVISIONS
This plan shall operate pursuant to the Collective Agreement on the following basis:-
(a)	The Plan will be operated by a Board of Trustees which will consist of six (6) persons, three (3) to be named by the Union and three (3) to be named by the Employer. Such Trustees and their successors shall be responsible for the administration and operation of the Plan and Fund and shall have all powers necessary to create, amend or terminate the Plan and Fund consistent with the terms of the Collective Agreement in effect from time to time. Each Trustee shall have one vote.
(b)	The Trustees shall select a Chairman and a Secretary. These persons shall not have a casting vote on any matters under consideration by the Trustees.
(c)	The Trustees shall meet and shall decide on the type and form of the Pension Plan and may employ legal counsel, actuaries and other consultants or advisors as they deem necessary or advisable.
(d)	The Trustees shall have the exclusive right to determine the provisions of the Plan and the benefits provided thereunder from time to time and the use of all contributions plus investment earnings thereon received by the Plan. These shall be used only for the benefit of employees on whose behalf contributions are or have been made to the Plan and to meet necessary Plan expenses.
(e)	The Employer and the Union shall enter into a Trust Agreement with the Trustees. The Trust Agreement shall provide that in the event that the Trustees are deadlocked on any issue concerning the Plan or Fund the matter shall be submitted for arbitration by a mutually agreeable party or failing mutual agreement on an Arbitrator by a Judge appointed by the Supreme Court of British Columbia.
(f)
(g)
(h)
The Employer shall from time to time provide all information which is required for the administration of the Plan and shall assist and co-operate in the Plan's administration. Reasonable assistance rendered by the Employer shall be rendered without charge to the Trustees.
The Trustees shall establish a Trust Account into which contributions shall be paid pending execution of the Trust Agreement and establishment of the Plan.
The Plan shall not require the Employer to guarantee the benefits or assure the solvency of the Fund and further that all costs of establishing the Plan and all
costs of operation and administration (except as provided in (f) above) shall be paid from the assets of the Plan.
(i)
(i)
The Trustees may effect arrangements with the Employer and other Trustees of pension plans to permit reciprocal inter-plan transfers.
The Trust Agreement shall permit the Trustees, in certain events and upon certain conditions to transfer the assets and liabilities to another Board of Trustees provided such transfer shall not adversely affect the benefits or rights of the members of the Plan.
The Employers shall be required to make payments to the Pension Trust Fund as herein set forth. Such contributions shall be, for each employee working in a job classification covered by the Collective Agreement:
(a) eight percent (8%) of gross earnings from June 1, 1994 up to September 30, 1994, and
(b)	eight and one-half percent (8 1/2%) of gross earnings from October 1, 1994 up to September 30, 1995, and
(c)	nine percent (9%) of gross earnings from October 1, 1995.
It is understood that contributions shall be payable in respect to the earnings of employees from the first day following achievement of benefit status whether said employees are permanent, temporary, seasonal or full-time or part-time employees and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union.
The gross earnings of an employee shall be the sum of his regular earnings, overtime, shift differential, premiums and any other earnings payable to the employee in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
Contributions along with a list of employees for whom they have been made and the amount of contribution in respect to each employee and his regular earnings shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Custodian of the assets of the Plan designated by the Trustees. A copy of the list of employees shall also be mailed to the Administrator of the Plan.
Such payment shall be made to the custodian for each pay period not later than twenty-one (21) days after the end of each pay period. The Employer shall also submit to the Plan Administrator within ninety (90) days following the end of each plan year a listing of all employees who were covered by the Plan during such plan year showing, for each, the regular earnings upon which the Employer's contributions were based during the plan year. Copies of all the listings shall also be forwarded if required to the Union. These listings shall also contain such other information as the Plan Administrator and actuary may require for the operation of the Plan.
(1) It is intended that the Plan and Trust Fund shall be such that the Plan can be registered under the provisions of the Income Tax Act of Canada and any other applicable Federal or Provincial law respecting employee pension plans.