VICTORIA
DAIRIES
AGREEMENT
VICTORIA DAIRIES AGREEMENT
Clause 1 Clause 2 Clause 3 Clause 4 Clause 5 Clause 6 Clause 7
Clause 8 Clause 9 Clause 10 Clause 11 Clause 12 Clause 13 Clause 14 Clause 15
Clause 16 Clause 17 Clause 18 Clause 19
Clause 20 Clause 21 Clause 22 Clause 23 Clause 24
Clause 25 Clause 26 Clause 27 Clause 28 Clause 29 Clause 30
/	INDEX
Union Security
Union Activities of Employees Union Notices Deduction ofDues, etc.
Shop Stewards
Conflicting Agreement
Crossing of a Picket Line and
Right to Handle Union Product
Grievance Procedure
Discharge of Employees
Management Rights
Welfare Plan
Compensation Coverage
Pay Days
Pay Statements
Posting of Vacancies and
Promotions
New Classifications
Loss ofWages
New Employees
Seniority - Reduction of Staff -
Severance Pay
Minimum Pay
Eating and Rest Period
Annual Holidays
Statutory Holidays
Days and Hours of Work and
Overtime - Inside and Drivers
Not Driver Salesmen)
Shift Differential Utilization of Employment Work Clothes JmyDuty
Period of Summer Season Credit on Routes
E'age
4
4
5 7 9 9
14
15
15
16 20 20 20
21
26
26
26
30
32
34
34
35
36
36
37
Clause 31 Clause 32 Clause 33
Clause 34 clause 35 Clause 36 Clause 37 Clause 38
KlgipiilK pftjpcr Records
Performance cf Duty
Days and Hours of Work, Overtime,
Time Off and Split Routes
Deliveries by Specials
wage3
Unit Values
Expiration c£ Agreement Savings Clause
38
38
38
42
42
42
43
44
Wage Schedules	”C, "D” and "E
Letters of Understanding Appendix "A"
VICTORIA DAIRIES AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this of
1986.
day
BETWEEN
ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION P.O. Box 38,
VICTORIA, B.C.
V8W2M1
PALM DAIRIES LIMITED
930 North Park Street VICTORIA, B.C.
V8T 1C6
[hereinafter referred to as the "Employer")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 464,
of the City of Vancouver, Province of British Columbia, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters,
Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America.
[hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH THAT the Parties hereto agree as follows:
CLAUSE 1 UNION SECURITY
1.01	All employees covered by this Agreement must become members of the Union within fourteen [ 14) calendar days of their commencing their employ-
1
ment hereunder. The Employer agrees to retain in his employ, within the group covered by this Agreement, only members c£ the Union in good standing and to notify the Union within ten (10) days erf any new employees hired or former employees returned to the payroll.
1.02	It is further agreed: That any person not a member of the Union shall not work at occupations which come under the Union's jurisdiction, except in cases c£ emergency and then only until a member of the Union can be placed on the job. Where this provision operates against the efficiency of the plant, the Union undertakes to consider exemption in any particular case put before it. In the event of failure to reach Agreement, the matter will be submitted to Arbitration under the provisions Clause 8, Section 8.02.
1.03	That the Union's jurisdiction shall be deemed to include the processing, manufacture, sale and/or distribution cf dairy products or such other products as the Employer may from time to time process, manufacture, sell and/or distribute.
1.04	This Agreement shall cover all employees engaged in work coming within the Union's jurisdiction and whether employed at the Employer's address set forth above or employed elsewhere in the Province of British Columbia and there engaged in the sale or distribution of dairy or other products shipped or forwarded from the aforesaid places.
1.05	The selling and distribution cf dairy products being recognized as work coming within the Union's jurisdiction such work must be performed by an employee cf the Company whose products are being sold or distributed provided that selling and distribution may be carried on by such persons other than employees who were on October 1st, 1965 canying on such selling or distribution. Section 1.04 shall not be deemed to include sales representatives who are not employed in distribution or delivery.
1.06	Personnel above Route Foreman or Assistant Plant Foreman shall not be required to be members of
2
the Union unless working within the Union's jurisdiction.
CLAUSE 2
UNION ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES
2.01	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for upholding the Union's principles. No employee who serves on a committee shall lose his or her position nor be discriminated against for that reason. The Employer shall allow time off work to any man or woman who is serving on a committee or as a delegate, provided that all requests for time off are reasonable or do not interfere with the proper operation of the plants or routes, and provided that requests for such time off are made by officers of the Union.
CLAUSE 3 UNION NOTICES
3.01	The Company agrees to provide space that is readily accessible for the Union notices of direct interest to the employees.
CLAUSE 4
DEDUCTION OF DUES. ETC.
4.01	Each of the employees covered by this Agreement hereby authorizes the Employer to deduct and pay over to the Secretary of the Union, any monthly dues, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's By-laws, owing by him or her hereunder to the said Union, or as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Umon. Monies shall be deducted in accordance with the written statement supplied in duplicate by the Union which shall show the total amount owing by each employee and the names of the employees for whom the deductions are to be made. Deductions of any monies owing shall also be made from employees in the month in which they terminate. Monies deducted shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than the 1 Oth day of the following month and shall be accom-
3
panied by a copy cf the written statement supplied by the Union.
CLAUSE 5 SHOP STEWARDS
5.01	There shall be a shop steward at each operation covered by this Agreement, if the Union so desires, to see whether the members cf the Union and the Employer live up to the provisions cf this Agreement and to report any infractions of such provisions and rules to the superintendent or foreman, who shall promptly deal with same. Such shop steward shall be elected by the Union members in the shop concerned failing which a shop steward may be appointed by the Union, and shall be an employee cf the place in which he is a steward. There shall be no discrimination against the shop steward for Union activities.
5.02	The shop steward shall have no authority to alter, amend, violate or otherwise change any part cf this Agreement. The shop steward shall report to the Union officers any violation cf this Agreement.
CLAUSE 6
CONFLICTING AGREEMENT
6.01	It is further agreed by the Employer that no Union member will be asked to make any written or verbal agreement conflicting with this Agreement. No Union member shall make any written or verbal agreement with the Employer conflicting with this Agreement.
CLAUSE 7
CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT
7,01 The Employer shall not require any member
of the Union to cross a picket line which has been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction. The Employer shall not require any member of the
4
Union to accept any product or goods from any person, or employees of any person, with whom the Union, Local No. 464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction, around or against, or to deliver any product or goods to any person or employees of any person with whom the Union, Local No. 464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction, around or against.
7.02	It shall not be a violation of this Agreement or cause for dismissal for an employee to refuse to handle, receive, ship or transport any materials or equipment affected by a Labour dispute which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction.
CLAUSE 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	Any alleged violation of this Agreement must be submitted to the Employer as a written grievance within thirty (30) calendar days of the alleged violation or be considered invalid unless, upon evidence of extenuating circumstances, grievance procedure is authorized by the Executive Board of the
Union .	.
Disputes or differences concerning the interpretation, application, o eration or alleged violation of this agreement shall %e subject to the above time limit ancT shall be resolved according to the following procedure.
(a)	The employee or the Union together with such person or persons as he or the Union may wish, shall take the matter up with the Employer.
(b)	Should a solution not be reached by step (a)then an officer or officers of the Union, accompanied by the employee, if he or they so wish, shall discuss the matter with the Employer. If a solution is reached, this shall be final.
8.02	If the procedures set forth in Section 8.01 (a) and (b) above do not result in a solution being reached
5
within seven days of the first discussion between an officer of the Union and a representative cf the Employer, or within such further period as the Employer and the Union agree to in writing, the dispute shall be referred to an Arbitration Board of three persons appointed as follows:
(a)	The Party desiring arbitration shall appoint a member for the Board and shall notify tne other party in writing of the name and address of the person so appointed and particulars of the matter in dispute.
(b)	The Party receiving the notice shall within five (5) days thereafter appoint a member for the Board" and notify the other party of its appointment.
(c)	The two arbitrators so appointed shall confer to select a third person to be chairman and failing for three days from the appointment of the second of them to agree upon a person willing to act, either of them may apply to the Honourable, The Minister of Labour, to appoint such third member.
8.03	The Arbitration Board shall sit, hear the parties, settle the terms cf the question to be arbitrated and make its award within ten (10) days from the date of the appointment of the Chairman, provided the time may be extended by agreement of the parties.
The Arbitration Board shall have the power to determine whether a particular issue is arbitrable under this Agreement.
A majority award shall be the award cf the
Board.
8.04	If the Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure it is found) that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, that employee shall be re-rnstated by the Com any without loss cf pay and with all his rights, benefits and privileges which he would have enjoyed if the suspension or discharge had not taken place, or if an Arbrtration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of
6
the grievance procedure it Is found)that an ex-employee should have been re-hlred that ex-employee shall he employed by the Employer and paid all pay which he would have enjoyed and accorded all the rights, privileges and benefits which he would have enjoyed If he had been hired at the pnoper time, provided that, if it is shown to the Board that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period between discharge and/or suspension and re-instatement or date of failure to re-nire and re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deducted from wages payable by the Employer pursuant to this Clause, less any expenses which the employee has Incurred in order to earn the wages so deducted , AND PROVIDED THAT, the Arbitration Board, if circumstances are established before it, which, in the opinion of the Arbitration Board, makes itj ust and equitable to do so, shall have the authority to order the Employer to pay less than the full amount of wages lost.
8.05	If the award of the Arbitration Board is subsequently set aside by a court of competent Jurisdiction the question shall, at the request of either party, be submitted tu another Arbitration Board appointee! pursuant to and with all the powers provided in this danse.
8.06	The expenses and remuneration of the Chairman diall be paid by the parties in equal shares,
8.07	Withput restricting the specific powers hereinbefore mentioned the Arbitration Board shall have all the general powers of an Arbitration Board.
CLAUSE 9
DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES
9.01 Except for lay-offs pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agreement, no employee shall be discharged other than for proper cause.
7
9.02	The Employer reserves the right to discharge any employee, without notice, for any of the following causes:
1.	Dishonesty
2.	Drunkenness
3.	Refusal to obey a lawful order
4.	Absence without leave
5.	Drinking intoxicating liquors while on duty
6.	Permitting unauthorized persons on vehicles provided "no riders" stickers are on vehicles.
7.	Wilful abuse of sick leave privileges
8.	Impairment due to the improper use cf drugs
9.	Wilful abuse of company equipment.
9.03	Any discharged employee may, within 72 hours of his discharge, in writing, require the Employer to give to him the reasons for his discharge and the Employer will give such reasons to him, m writing within 72 hours of such request, and in the event cf any dispute or difference as to whether or not there was proper cause for the discharge cf an employee only the reasons so set forth in writing shall constitute cause.
9.04	If an employee is discharged or suspended for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, or, if an employee, laid off pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agreement is not re-hired and feels that he should have been re-hired, the dispute shall constitute a. grievance to be settled pursuant to the provision of Clause 8 hereof, provided that the grievance shall be launched within fourteen (14) calendar days of the discharge or suspension.
9.05	The nature of a suspension, length of a suspension, and the date of imp ementation of a suspension shall be provided to an employee in writing and the Union shall be so notified immediately.
8
CLAUSE 10
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
10.01	The Employer shall have the exclusive right and power to manage the business and direct the working forces, including the right to hire: suspend for cause: discharge for cause; lay off; promote: assign to jobs; transfer employees from department to department; to increase or decrease the working force; to determine the products to be handled.
10.02	Nothing in this Agreement shall be intended or is to be construed in any way to interfere with the recognized right of the Employer to manage and control the business. It is further agreed that nothing in this Clause shall be used to discriminate against any employee of the Union, its members or its Executive.
10.03	Nothing in any of the provisions of this Clause shall in any way limit, void or affect the other provisions of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 11
WELFARE PLAN AND PENSION PLAN
11.01	Effective the first day of the month following ninety (90) days employment the Employer shall continue to provide a Welfare Plan for all employees covered by this Agreement (excludingthose listed hereunder) with the following benefits:
(a)	Life Insurance in the sum of $20,000.00 upon death from any cause whatever.
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment in the principal sum of $20,000.00 both occupational and non-occupational coverage.
i.	In the event of death by accident, the principal sum will be paid in addition to the Life Insurance benefit in (a).
9
ii. Si the event of dismemberment or loss of sight due to accident, the followingamounts will be paid:
1.	Both hands or feet	The Principal Sum
2. Sight of both eyes	The principal Sum
3.	One hand ana one foot The Principal Sum
4.	One hand and the
sight of one eye	The Principal Sum
5.	Onefoot and the
sight of one eye	The Principal Sum
6.	Sight of one eye	Half the Principal Sum
7.	One hand or one
foot	Half the Principal Sum
(c)	Effective January 1, 1987, the following schedule of additional life insurance shall apply to all employees with dependents upon death of the employee.
First dependent	$20,000.00
Each additional dependent	5,000,00
(d)	Sick Benefit in the sum of 65% of the employee's gross weekly base rate for a period of fifty-two (52) weeks to become effective on the first (1st) day in the event c£ a non-compensable accident and on the fourth (4th)day of any sickness.
In addition, any employee with over seven (7) years seniority that is on Weekly Indemnity may, at his option, make up his benefit to full salary by using accumulated sick days to the maximum payable as per Clause 11.03 (cj.
To apply for sick benefit an employee must obtain the appropriate Sick Benefit application forms from the Employer.
On presentation of a receipt from the Physician, an employee shall be reimbursed up to ten dollars ($10.00) for each physician's statement completed in any sickness or accident period.
10
(e)	Medical coverage and benefits equivalent to those provided by the Medical Services Plan of B.C.
(f)	Extended Health Benefits Plan equivalent to the coverage provided by the Medical Services Association cf B.C.
(g)	A Dental Plan providing the following coverage: -100% payment for Plan A [Basic Services)
-	75% payment of claims for Plan B ( rosthetic appliances, crown and bridge procedures?
-	50% payment of claims for Plan C (orthodontics) to a maximum of $1,500.00 per life.
(h)	A Long T erm Disability Plan providing a benefit of forty (40) percent of an employee's weekly base rate to commence after weekly indemnity ceases, payable to age 65. This benefit to be reduced by any amount payable by the Canada Pension Disability Plan. Provisions of LTD plan to include eligibility if employee is unable to perform duties of his/her own occupation for a period of two years and/or the Employer is unable to provide a suitable job to the disabled employee. After two (2)years, the employee must be unable to perform the normal duties of any occupation.
(i)	An optical plan to provide $100.00 of coverage for each two year period applicable to each eligible person.
11.02	The cost of the benefits contained in Clause
11.01	shall be borne 100% by the Employer.
11.03	Sick Leave
(a)	Commencing on the first of the month following completion of the probationary period [per Clause
19.01	[a) )all employees shall accumulate paid sick leave at the rate of one-half (1/2) day per month for each month wages are earned. For the purpose of
11
of this Clause, wages shall include Weekly Indemnity and Workers' Compensation Benefits. Accumulation while drawing such benefits shall be limited to one (1) year.
Employees who accumulate sick leave in excess of thirty (30) days shall receive such excess days accumulated in the contract year as time off m the following contract year at a mutually agreeable time at their regular rate of pay.
An employee may request by October 31st following the end of each contract year the he receive these excess days in cash rather than time off and such request shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Employer. The basis of refusal shall be when such request will unduly effect the efficient operation of the business.
Employees over age 60 may, at their option, accumulate these sick days indefinitely, with the days in excess of 30 being accumulated at the rate of pay in effect when the days are earned.
(b)	Where any absence, occasioned by sickness or accident is not covered for payment by either the Sick Benefit (11.01 (c) of this Clause] or Compensation, employees shall draw on time so accumulated in the following manner:
(i)	First day of absence - One half (1/2) day’s pay
(ii)	Second day of absence - One full day’s pay (111) Third, day of absence - One fill day’s pay
Thereafter, the balance of accumulated Sick Leave to be applied and paid at the full daily rate for each day the employee's absence exceeds fifty-two (52) weeks and is not covered by the Sick Benefit. Employees with an existing accumulated balance of 30 days and over shall receive full pay on the first day of absence.
(c)	On retirement or voluntaiy termination an employee having completed:
12
- 7 years of service will receive 33% of accumulated sick days owing.
-14 years of service will receive 66% of accumulated sick days owing.
-18 years of service will receive 100% of accumulated sick days owing.
11.04	Funeral T.eave
In the event of death in the immediate family cf an employee, the Company shall grant up to three (3) working days leave of absence with pay when such leave is necessary in order to make arrangements for and/or to attend the funeral. The term ^'immediate family" shall mean spouse (including common-law spouse providing he or she is registered as a dependent under Clause 11}, parents, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, mother-in-law and father-in-law.
It is understood funeral leave is payable only for working time lost.
11.05	Leave of Absence
An employee may request a leave of absence and such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
The basis of refusal shall be when such leave will unduly affect the efficient operation of the business.
Leave of absence must be requested in writing stating the purpose of the leave.
If such leave of absence is used for purposes other than those for which it is granted, it shall be cause for dismissal.
11.06 Pension
The Employers shall continue to participate in the operation of the Teamsters Local 464 Dairy Industry Pension Plan in accordance with Appendix "A'
13
attached hereto which shall form part cf this Agreement.
11.07
(a)	When an employee goes off work ill or on compensation or grievance procedure is invoked on his discharge, the Company shall continue to pay both his welfare fees ana Union dues so that at all times the employee shall be protected to the utmost.
(b)	To provide payment for the above mentioned welfare benefits, an employee must leave sufficient funds with the Employer or pay. or have paid on his behalf, in advance, the monthly payments direct to the Employer.
(c)	For the purpose of this Clause only, any employee off ill or on compensation shall be deemed to be on the payroll.
11.08	Exclusions
[a)	Employees [Summer Help per Clause 29.02) whose term of employment does not exceed the period April 1st to September 15th inclusive.
(b)	Part-time employees (per Clause 19.01 (b)) who do not work more than fifty percent (50%) of the standard work week for their job classification.
These employees shall be excluded from the provisions of Clause 11 - Welfare Plan.
CLAUSE 12
COMPENSATION COVERAGE
12.01	When employees on compensation are directed by the Compensation Board or their physician that they may return to work, they shall be returned to their previousjob and rate of pay for a period of two [2) weeks to see if they are capable of performing the job held at the time of injury, and if so, they shall be kept on the payroll.
14
In the event the previous job no longer exists, the employee shall be given ajob of comparable nature subject to the provisions of Clause 19.
CLAUSE 13 PAY DAYS
13.01	Emt iloyees shall be paid every second week. Pay day shall be Friday. The amount paid shall include all sums owing by way of wages earned up to and including the Saturday previous save for commissions which shall be computed on a four week period. Any exception to this will be covered by a letter of understanding.
13.02	When pay day falls on a Statutory Floliday or an employee's day off, such employee shall have the privilege of drawing his pay cheque the previous bank day.
CLAUSE 14 PAY STATEMENTS
14.01
(a)	All plant employees and non-commissioned drivers will be given a statement with each pay cheque showing overtime, if any, and rate of pay; how the amount is computed, including deductions, if any; and all retail driver salesmen will be given a statement once each period showing the number of units sold, retail, wholesale, plus extras, etc. how the amount is computed including deductions, if any.
Hours of overtime worked and the value of such overtime will be shown on the interim cheque and paid on the final cheque of each period.
(b)	Accumulated sick leave, days off, and Statutory Flolidays owing shall be shown by posting a list each month at the applicable plants and depots.
15
CLAUSE 15
POSTING OF VACANCIES AND
PROMOTIONS
15.01 Routes
(a)	All new routes, vacant routes and positions shall be immediately posted on the bulletin boards for a period of ninety -six (96)hours excluding Sundays with details of earnings, units, hours of work, days off, and any other pertinent information. There shall be no changes in requirements of posted vacancies during time of posting.
(b)	Any employee desiring the new route, vacant route or position shall mate application in writing to the necessary manager within the period of posting. There will be a trial period not to exceed three (3) working weeks during which the employee and/or the Employer can determine if the successful applicant is suitable, failing which the applicant will revert to his former route or position. The trial period may be extended by mutual agreement between the parties. Any such agreement for extension shall be put in writing with a copy sent to the Union.
(c)	Unsuccessful applicants under (b) above shall be considered in the filling of any route or position arising out of the original vacancy.
(d)	Applications for vacant routes shall not be entertained if the applicant has applied for and been given a vacant route within the last twelve (12) months.
In the event that no suitable applicant is available and the position cannot be filled from within the department,then Clause 15.01 (d) willbe waived.
(e)	There shall be only one posting created to' a Route vacancy provided that any vacancy of a Relief Driver's, Holiday Relief or Route Foreman's position shall be posted.
16
(f)	If a higher classification of driver's license is required for any drivingjob due to vehicle change or replacement, the cost of obtaining the license shall be borne by the Employer. The choice of any course required shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
15.02 Inside
(a]	All vacancies or promotions shall be posted immediately for a period of ninety-six (96) hours excluding Sundays at all operations in the district concerned. Details of earnings, hours of work and days off to be on all postings.
There shall be a maximum of two (2) additional postings of vacancies resulting from the posting of the initial vacancy or promotion.
(b)	Any inside employee desiring the vacancy or promotion shall make written application to the plant superintendent within the period of posting. There will be a trial period not to exceed three (3) working weeks during which the employee and/or the Employer can determine if the successful applicant is suitable, failing which the applicant will revert to his former position. The trial period may be extended by mutual agreement between the parties. Ary such agreement Tor extension shall be put in writing with a copy sent to the Union.
17
15.03	Miscellaneous
(a)	Any man desiring to change from one branch to another in the same department may make written application to do so and ail such applications will be considered in conjunction with those submitted as above for any vacancy which occurs in the branch to which transfer is requested.
(b)	The filling of vacancies and promotions shall be based on the length of continuous service an employee has been on the payroll of the department concerned, other considerations such as ability and qualifications being equal.
The results of all postings to be announced and the employees affected to be notified within seven (7) days. In the event a successful applicant is not assigned to the new position witnin fourteen (14) calendar days, the Company shall notify the Union.
If such vacancies or promotions are filled by other than the senior applicant, the Employer shall notify the Shop Steward and/or the Union within forty-eight (48) hours and shall supply them with the names of all the applicants for tne vacancy or promotion.
Upon request from the Shop Steward, unsuccessful applicants shall be notified in writing as to the reason why they were not chosen for the promotion or vacancy.
(c)	If no applications are received from the department concerned, then an employee of the other department who has applied for a change shall be given consideration for the vacancy as outlined in
15.03	(b).
(d)	In determining vacancies and promotions, seniority shall be on a departmental and subdepartmental basis, as follows:
18
1.	Production Department
To include all employees on the production payrolls.
Sub-departments
fi)	Tank Truck and Farm Pick-up Drivers.
(li) Checkers (iii) Plant Staff
2.	Sales Department
to include all sales department employees.
(e)	The time limit for posting of vacancies and promotions may be lowered in cases of extreme emergencies and only with the consent of the Union.
(f)	New routes, vacant routes or positions shall be those which are vacant for any reason whatsoever, and must be posted. Applicants already on the payroll shall be given the new route, vacant route or position before new employees are hired. Employees on days off or holidays shall be notified of vacancies by the Employer provided the employee, in writing, has requested a change. Employees who are Summer Help or who have not completed the 52 shift probation period are not eligible to apply for new routes or vacant routes or positions.
(g)	Ary vacancy that has occurred because of sickness or accident shall be considered temporary (and shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of Clause 24.04 provided re-trainingis not necessary) until such time as medical evidence indicates the employee will not be returning to his former job or position.
(h)	The Employer shall post on the bulletin boards at all operations on April 1st and October 1st of each year a list of all employees in the bargaining unit with their date of commencement of employment
19
and their current classification. A copy of such list or lists shall be given to the Union.
CLAUSE 16
NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
16.01	The Employer shall negotiate with the Union, the establishmentof and the rate of wages to be paid for any classification of work other than those set forth in Schedules "A", ”B", ”C", "D" and "E"
16.02	In the event that the Employer and the Union can not reach agreement concerning any proposed classification of work either party may invoke the Grievance Procedure set forth in Clause 8, of this Agreement. The rate established ty mutual agreement or Arbitration shall be retroactive to the day the employee was assigned to such position.
CLAUSE 17 LOSS OF WAGES
17.01	No employee shall suffer a reduction of earnings or rate of earnings because of the adoption of this Agreement. For the purpose of this Clause, earnings shall not be deemed to include overtime earnings.
CLAUSE 18 NEW EMPLOYEES
18.01	New, inexperienced employees (excluding
Summer Help) shall receive twenty-five percent (25%) less than the rate provided herein, for the first one hundred and four (104)working shifts and twelve percent (12%) less than the rate provided herein for the next one hundred and four (104) working shifts: full scale thereafter. This shall include part-time employees.
18.02	Experienced employees who terminate their employment with one Employer covered by local 464, then go to work for another Employer (in the same ea-
rn
pacity) shall be considered experienced and paid as such, provided the employee is not absent from the trade for a period exceeding six (6) months.
CLAUSE 19
SENIORITY- REDUCTION OF STAFF -SEVERANCE PAY
19.01 Seniority and Reduction of Staff
(a)	A probationary period of fifty-two (52J working shifts, to be completed within a period of one hundred and eighty-three (183) consecutive calendar days, shall apply in the case of each new employee, during which time seniority shall not apply, and an employee may be laid off without reference to seniority and the Employer shall not be obligated to rehire such employee. The probationary period shall be extended by any working shifts lost due to accident or illness during the probationary period. Upon completion of the probationary period seniority shall date from the date of employment.
(b)	There shall be two separate seniority lists. Such lists shall be supplied to the Union bv the Employer on April 1st and October 1 stof each year and snail include all employees covered by this Agreement who have completed their probationary period.
The first list shall cover all employees other than Part-time and Summer Help employees, and shall show the name, classification, and date of employment of each employee.
The second list shall cover all Part-time employees (those employees employed for less than the standard work week for the job classification) and shall show the name and classification of each employee and the number of shifts worked for the Employer.
21
Should a Part-time employee become full time that employee shall be transferred to the first seniority list and a date of employment for the purposes of seniority shall be determined retroactively on the basis of one calendar month for each 17.3 shifts accumulated.
(c)	Summer Help Employees
1.	May be employed to supplementthe regular work force and provide additional help between April 1 and September 15.
2. Summer Help Employees will not displace full-time employees.
3.	Summer Help Employees shall not accrue seniority rights, nor be entitled to benefits normally granted other employees, nor be guaranteed a minimum number of hours per week.
(d)	Whenever it is necessary to reduce the number of employees for any reason whatsoever, the employees shall be considered as laid c£E and will be re-hired in order of seniority, provided that the Employer may apply to the Union for its consent to waive seniority in any case where the ability and qualifications of a particular employee are substantially superior to those of a more senior employee and provided further that such superior ability and qualifications are necessary for the job involved.
The onus of establishing the matters aforesaid shall be on the Employer.
(e)	All employees shall be given fourteen (14) calendar days notice before being laid cff save those whose layoff is dictated by supply, or exceptional weather conditions or sus ension of an operation for an unscheduled breakdown. Employees shall give the Employer the same notice.
22
(f]	A reduction in staff may only be effected by the laying off of the least senior employee in accordance with the following procedure, recognizing the following Departments:
1.	Production
2.	Sales and Distribution
Procedure for reduction of staff:
a.	Where the Employer eliminates a job process, route or position, the employee displaced shall be the least senior employee within the Department affected in the Plant or Branch concerned.
b.	The displaced employee from step 1 (a)
(above) shall displace the least senior employee within the Plant or Branch concerned, regardless of Department.
c.	The displaced employee from the above steps shall displace the least senior employee on an overall seniority basis regardless of Plant or Department.
2. Temporary Lay-offs
A temporary general reduction of staff dictated by supply, exceptional weather conditions, or suspension of an operation due to maintenance or unscheduled breakdown shall be by seniority (as per Clause 19.01 (d) and shall affect only the Department in the Plant or Branch concerned.
As in Sub-section (d) of this Clause, the Employer may apply to the Union for its consent to waive seniority and the Union, within the terms stipulated in sub-section (d)), undertakes to consider such application.
(g)	Any employee laid off from a posted position will be afforded the option to waive the reduction of
23
staff procedure and accept a lay-off from the Branch/Plant in which they were employed with the right cf recall to that Branch/Plant only. This option must be completed and signed at the time cf lay-off from his/her position and will provide recall to a vacant position.
Employees laid off pursuant to this Clause shall retain the right to be re-hired for fifty-two (52) weeks from the date of initial, lay-off from permanent or part-time status provided that the employee shall leave with the Employer an address and telephone number at which the employee can be served notice of re-hire. The onus shall rest with the employee to maintain a correct address and telephone number. The date cf initial lay-off will be advanced forward by fifty-two (52) weeks if the employee has worked a minimum of one hundred and four (194) shifts in the previous fifty-two (52)week period. On completion of the above shifts, this would provide renewal cf the 52 week right of recall.
The option for laid-off employees to waive the reduction of staff procedure and accept a lay-off from the Branch/Plant in which they were employed, is subject to renewal at the time that the 52 week right of recall is renewed.
Employees who fail to work a minimum of 104 shifts in any recall period will be transferred to the part-time seniority list.
Seniority shall not accumulate during the lay-off period. Any employee failing within seven (7) calendar days to respond to a notice of recall shall be deemed to have forfeited both the right to recall and seniority.
Where any dispute arises such dispute shall constitute a grievance and shall be settled pursuant to the provisions of Clause 8 of this Agreement.
(h)	Employees who leave the bargaining unit but remain in the employ of the Employer, shall have
24
the ri ht to re-enter the bargaining unit and retain their full company seniority unless terminated.
19.02	Severance Pay
(a)	Severance pay shall apply to all employees.
(b)	In respect of an employee whose termination arises out of or is attributable to:
1.	The elimination of ajob process, or
2.	The introduction of equipment or methods which reduces the number of employees, provided he has two (2)years or more service, he shall be eligible for severance pay at the rate paid at the time of severance.
(c)	All employeewith two (2)to five (5/years of service shall receive two (2) weeks severance pay when termination is due to reasons outlined in this section. Additional severance pay shall accrue at the rate of two (2)weeks cf full pay for each year of service commencing with the sixth (6th) year of service but shall not exceed a total of twenty (20) weeks of full pay.
(d)	Upon termination such employee shall be placed on the re-hire list as provided for in Section 19.01 f] of this Clause for a period of four (4)weeks. At the end cf four (4)weeks, the employee so affected shall have the option of remaining on the re-hire list or accepting severance pay.
Should he elect to remain on the re-hire list, he may renew his option every fourth (4th) week but in any event, providing no suitable employment has been provided by the Employer, he must accept severance pay no later than fifty-two (52) weeks from the date of termination.
(e)	Any employee electing to take severance pay under the terms set out above shall forfeit all rights under this Agreement.
25
Any employee electing to retire on pension prior to normal retirement age shall not be eligible for severancepay.
(f)	Severance pay shall be paid in addition to all other sums owi n g to the employee.
CLAUSE 20 MINIMUM PAY
20.0! When an employee is called to work on any of his days off. he shall receive a minimum c£ four (4) hours' pay or pay at the overtime rates for all time worked, whichever is the greater.
CLAUSE 21
EATING AND REST PERIOD
21.01	No employee shall be worked longer than five (5)hours without a half hour off for the purpose of eating a meal.
21.02	All employees shall be entitled to a ten minute break in the forenoon and afternoon, without loss of
pay-
21.03	ALL employees shall be entitled to a paid ten (10) minute break immediately following the standard shift if overtime in excess cf one (l)additional hour is anticipated.
CLAUSE 22 ANNUAL HOLIDAYS
22.01	Employees who may, because of the seasonal nature of the work, be employed in such a manner as to be subject to short periods of lay-off, shall accumulate working time in successive years towards holiday schedule and shall receive pro-rated holiday pay depending on the number of months worked.
12 months worked • 2 weeks holiday or 4% holiday pay 24 months worked - 3 weeks holiday or 6% holiday ]ray
26
84 months waked - 4 weeks holiday or 8% holiday pay 168 months waked - 5 weeks holiday or 10% holiday pay 216 months waked - 6 weeks holiday or 12% holiday pay 300 months worked - 7 weeks holiday or 14% holiday pay
22.02	All employees with one (l)year or more service shall receive two (2)weeks off with full pay or 4% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with two (phyears or more service shall receive three (3)weeks off with full pay or 6% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with seven (7) years or more service shall receive four (4)weeks off with full pay or 8% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with fourteen (14) years or more service shall receive five (5) weeks off with full pay or 10% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with eighteen (ldi£)years or more service shall receive six (6) weeks off with full pay or 12% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with twenty-five (25) years or more service shall receive seven (7)weeks off with full pay or 14% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater, provided however, that any employee off ill, or on compensation shall be given an annual holiday credit of:
(a)	2 months if entitled to two weeks
(b)	3 months if entitled to three weeks
(c)	4 months if entitled to four weeks
(d)	5 months if entitled to five weeks
(e)	6 months if entitled to six weeks
(f)	7 months if entitled to seven weeks
In addition to all time worked during the year, provided further that the sum of time credited and time worked does not exceed one (1) year, and providing such employee worked for his regular Employer during some part of the year.
22.03	Two weeks of these annual holidays, unless the employees entitled to same have, on their first selection, elected to take all or any portion of their annual holidays within the months of October to April inclusive, shall be given the employees entitled to same in the months May to September inclusive. All em
27
ployees in each group shall be given the opportunity to choose their holiday dates in order of their seniority,
i.e. length of service.
Annual holidays will constitute fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days cff provided the days of annual holidays within the fourteen consecutive days do not exceed the employee's entitlement to holiday.
All periods of the year save for the week immediately preceding Christmas for Wholesale, shall be available for holidays and shall be posted.
22.04	All employees entitled to more than two (2) weeks holiday may select dL or any portion of their holiday entitlement in one continuous period providing they take their holidays in the months October to April inclusive.
Employees taking all their holidays within the winter schedule shall indicate the period desired and shall be given same on the basis c£ tneir seniority.
Vacation schedules for the summer period will be posted by January 31st and all vacation selections must be completed by April 1st. It is the employee's responsibility to sign up for holidays by this time, otherwise more junior employees may have first choice or holidays may be refused during this time
22.05	Any employee requesting holidays during the months May to September inclusrve shall, at their option, receive two (2)weeks in one continuous period. Employees entitled to five (5) weeks or more o£ annual holrdays requesting annual holidays during the months May to September inclusive may receive, at their option three (3)weeks in one continuous period. The remainder of the holidays to which such employee is entitled shall be given during the months October to April inclusive.
Vacation schedules for the winter period will be posted by June 15th and all vacation selections must be completed by September 1st. It is the employee's
28
responsibility to sign up for holidays by this time, otherwise more junior employees may have first choice or holidays may be refused during this time slot.
22.06
[a]	In the event the application of holiday selection as outlined above results in single weeks left open on the holiday schedule, an employee may select one of the single weeks on his or her first choice.
This selection of one week in the summer period shall constitute that employee's entire first, second or third choice with any further holiday entitlement being selected from available time in order of seniority.
(b)	Should available time remain open on a holiday schedule after all employees covered by the schedule have made their first selection, the employees shall have the option of making additional summer period selections in order ofseniority.
These additional selections, if any, shall be for one (1) week periods only and shall in no way limit the selection in order of seniority on the winter schedule.
22.07	Vacation schedules for the summer period [the months May to September inclusive] shall be posted by January 31st and completed by April 1st of each year, and must also show the dates chosen by employees electing to take holidays in the months October to April inclusive. Vacation schedules for the winter period [the months October to April inclusive] shall be posted by June 15th and completed by September 1st of each year.
22.08	There shall not be any change of the dates of an employees annual holidays from the date shown in the completed lists of holiday periods provided such change is occasioned by anything other than accident or illness, or unless such change is mutually agreeable to the parties involved.
29
22.09	All employees terminating their employment shall receive 4%; 6%; 8%; 10%; 12%; or 14% of their annual earnings in lieu of holidays to which they are entitled.
CLAUSE 23
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
23.01	All employees shall receive ten (10) Government Statutory Holidays and all holidays proclaimed by either the "Federal or the Provincial Government with full pay during the year, provided such holidays do not duplicate present Statutory Holidays. The Statutory Holidays shall be:
New Year's Day Canada Day	Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday B.C. Day	Remembrance Day
Empire Day Labour Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
23.02	Effective with an employee's birthday, such employees shall be entitled to an eleventh (11th) Statutory Holiday for that Contract year, to be given at a mutually agreed upon date for each employee.
This provision shall not apply to:
(a) Employees whose term of employment does not exceed the probationary period [per Clause 19.01 (a).
(b) Employees (SummerHelp) whose term cf employment does not exceed the period April 1st, to September 15th, inclusive.
23.03	Each employee shall be entitled to seven (7) days' advance notice prior to receiving Statutory Holidays. Statutory Holidays shall be given immediately prior to or following the employee's weekend days c£E.
Each employee shall be entitled to four (4) days advance notice prior to. cancellation of Statutory Holidays. Any Statutory Hfflilridays cancelled with less than four (4) days advance notice, provided such
30
cancellation is occasioned by anything other than accident or illness, shall accrue at the rate of two (2) days for each day so cancelled.
23.04	Statutory Holidays shall not be given in advance save by mutual consent cf the Employer and the employee.
23.05	Whenever possible, time off for Statutory Holidays will be given on the day of the Statutory Holiday but when this is not possible anyone required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall have the option of being paid at double time plus an accrued day off with pay or straight time plus the accrual of two (2) additional days off with pay.
This provision shall not apply to Retail Driver Salesmen who shall be paid at the rate of straight time for working a Statutory Holiday and shall receive a day off with full pay at a later date.
No wholesale or retail routes shall go out on Christmas Day or New Year's Day.
23.06	Any Statutory Holiday owing as of April 30th each year for the previousyear shall be paid for in cash in the followingpay periocl at the rate of double time.
23.07	All employees shall receive all Statutory Holidays with full pay which fall while they are on the payroll save for:
I.	Part-time employees (per Clause 19.01 (b)) who shall receive on April 1 st of each year payment of Statutory Holidays as per Clause 23.01 prorated according to the number of shifts worked in the previous twelve month period.
II.	Summer Help (per Clause 29) who shall receive on termination date payment of Statutory Holidays as per Clause 23.01 prorated according to the number of shifts worked in the summer season.
It is agreed that should the number of Statutory Holidays be increased by the Federal or Provincial
3]
Government the prorated payment will be based on the increased number.
23.08	An employee shall be entitled to a paid day cff for each such Statutory Holiday even if it falls on his weekly days cff or time cff taken in lieu thereof or on his annual vacation.
23.09	Each permanent employee shall be entitled to a Statutory Holiday even when he or she is cff through illness, quarantine, compensation or layoff, providing he or she is not absent for a period exceeding thirty (30) working days.
CLAUSE 24
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME - INSIDE AND DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER SALESMEN)
24.01	Nine (9)hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the parties, whichever :'s applicable, and based on the principle cf a thirty-six (36) hour work week shall constitute a day's work. All time worked in excess of the regular daily shift of nine (9)hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the parties, whichever is applicable, shall be paid for at double time. There shall be a minimum break cf eight (8)hours between drifts. There shall be no split shifts.
No employee shall be required to work longer than five (5)hours overtime in any one week provided however:
1.	Hours worked on days cff are not included.
2.	Shifts must be com leted as required.
3.	Overtime resultingfrom start up of new equipment not included.
4. Overtime due to inclement weather or mechanical breakdown not included.
5.	Overtime due to delays or conditions not attributable to the normal work load not included.
24.02	All inside employees and drivers (not driver salesmen) shall receive Saturday-Sunday or Sunday-
32
Monday, plus one other day off during the week, or Sunday plus any other two consecutive days off. Each week shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday.
Any non-oomplying schedule shall be covered by a letter of understanding.
24.03	A schedule of time off shall be posted so that inside employees and drivers (not driver salesmen) shall have at least seven (7) days advance notice of days <££. Any employee required to work on any of his days off shall be paid at double time.
It is agreed and understood that for the purposes of "seven days advance notice" &, where such changes of days off are occasioned by sickness or accident to another employee then the seven (7) days notice shall not apply.
24.04
(a)	Seniority within the job classification shall be a determining factor in the shift to be worked. The employer snail retain the right at all times to see that the required number of experienced employees is available on each shift to ensure proper and efficient operation.
(b)	Experienced workers regularly working a nine (9) hour shift who are directed to another shift by the Employer shall be guaranteed nine (9)hours' pay.
24.05	All farm and interplant tanker drivers shall, upon completion of their unloading duties, be entitled to spend the remainder of the unloading period, up to but not exceeding one-half (1/2) hour, in the lunchroom. This remainder period shall be calculated as part of the regular work shift in recognition of them having worked through their lunch period. Furthermore, it is understood that all breaks other than lunch are deemed to be taken en-route.
33
CLAUSE 25
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
25.01	This clause shall apply to dl employees excluding night watchmen and janitors. Any employee working a. daily shift starting between 12 noon and 12 midnight shall receive an extra ten percent (10%) of his base hourly rate for the entire shift.
25.02	Any employee commencing a daily shift before 6:00 a.m. shall receive 10% of his base hourly rate for hours worked prior to 6:00 a.m.
25.03	Any time less than ten (10)minutes will not be computed, except where it is a daily or nearly daily occurrence, then all times shall be computed and totalled, and paid for in each pay period.
25.04	Any employee working Sunday shifts (any shift that includes Sunday as a regularly scheduled work day) shall be paid a premium of ten percent (10%) of his base hourly rate (m addition to any other shift premium that may be applicable) for all hours worked on Sunday.
25.05	Clause 25 does not apply to Summer Help.
CLAUSE 26
UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT
26.01	Reliefman - A relief dairyworker is an employee who relieves on two or more job classifications during the work week.
26.02	Employment - Other Classifications - When an employee is required to fill the place of another employee receiving a higher rate of pay, if only for a day or the greater part of a day, he snail receive the higher rate, but if he is required to fill temporarily, the place of another employee, receiving a lower rate, his rate will not be changed to the lower rate.
34
This provision shall not apply when due to lack of work an employee may be reclassified.
26.03	...
(a)	Combination of Classifications (Seasonal or otherwise) - All employees shall be employed in a manner conforming to the listed classifications. It is recognized that the nature of an operation or the season of the year may render it necessary to combine two or more classification.
(b)	Any employee affected by the combining of his classification with any other classifications or with work performed under the classification of Dairyworker shall continue to be paid at the highest rate of the combined classifications.
CLAUSE 27
WORK CLOTHES
27.01	All inside employees shall be provided with (atno cost to them) clean uniforms, as well as gloves, to those requiring same. Where coveralls or smocks are required, these shall also be supplied at no cost to the employee. These clean clothes will be supplied no less than once a week and shall be Union made and Union serviced.
27.02	All permanent employees shall be provided with a protective footwear allowance of five dollars ^S5i®0)per year payable on October 1st of each year, provided however, any employee presently receiving more favorable consideration shall continue to do so.
27.03	The Company shall provide each driver with a clean uniform at least once per week. These uniforms shall be Union made and Union serviced.
27.04	The Company shall provide suitable protective clothing to all employees required to work in the cold room, at no cost to the employee.
35
The Company shall provide a suitable warm coat to all driver salesmen working in or out of cold hold and/or dual temperature trucks.
27.05	All clothing and uniforms to be supplied
and/or serviced by a company under contract to a Teamster Local Union, provided the rates are competitive.
CLAUSE 28 JURY DUTY
28.01	All working time lost by an employee due to necessary attendance on Jury Duty or any court proceedings arising out of his employment shall be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee.
28.02	Any employee on jury duty shall, subject to this provision, make himself available for work before or after being required for such duty, wherever practicable. All jury duty pay or witness fees received by the employee from the courts shall be reimbursed to the Employer.
28.03	All working time lost by an employee due to completing driver's tests or doctor's examinations shall, provided such test or examinations are required by his Employer, be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee.
CLAUSE 29
PERIOD OF SUMMER SEASON
29.01	The summer season shall be defined as the time of year between and including the 1st of April and the 15th of September.
29.02	Employees employed specifically for the period defined m Section 29.01 shall be classed as summer help and paid at the rate applicable, it bein understood that any em loyee workin at a classifies occupation shall be pai 8the (classifies rate whilst so employed, subject to the provisions of Clause 18.01.
36
CLAUSE 30 CREDIT ON ROUTES
30.01	Credit on routes and the rules and regulations thereof are the sole responsibility of the Employer as the Employer is the sole person who can control and regulate the credit through their employees. The Employer shall keep posted in a conspicuous place the rules and regulations regarding credit. The Employer is solely responsible for baa debts providing that the regulations in effect regarding the granting of credit have been observed by the employee and enforced by the Employer.
30.02	The Employer shall provide each retail driver salesman with suitable credit application forms which, if the Employer so requires, shall be completed by any customer requiring credit. The completed form shall be returned to the Employer for his approval or rejection and such approval or rejection of credit shall be indicated by the Employer in an appropriate place in the driver's route book records and shall constitute either approval or rejection by the Employer of the customer's application for credit.
30.03	If the stated policy of the Employer is not to grant or recognize credit to any retail customer, no retail driver salesman employed by that Employer shall be held responsible for any monies owing by a customer to whom he has not granted credit nor shall there be any discrimination against any driver who refuses to grant credit to any retail customer in accordance with the stated policy of the Employer.
30.04	Any deposit charged to a customer for milk containers shall be entered in the route book as a charge against that customer and shall form part of the outstanding for that route providing that the salesman enters all containers outstanding in the prescribed column.
30.05	For each account in a retail route book, a master sheet shall be used to display all the pertinent
37
information relating to the account save for any outstanding amounts which shall be entered by the salesman on a separate sheet for that account to the end that the salesman will only be required to change the separate sheet as it becomes filled.
CLAUSE 31
KEEPING PROPER RECORDS
31.01	Each salesman shall, subject to the control of the Employer, keep proper route books and make due and correct entries therein of all transactions and dealings of and in reference to the business of the Employer insofar as the same comes under his jurisdiction and shall serve the Employer diligently and according to the best cf his abilities in all respects.
CLAUSE 32
PERFORMANCE OF DUTY
32.01	Each employee, while on duty, shall devote the whole of his time, attention and energies to the performance of his duties and, shall not, during the term of his employment at any time, alone, in partnership or in association, be connected with or concerned m any other business directly or indirectly connected with the nilk business.
CLAUSE 33
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME. TIME OFF, AND SEUT ROUTES
33.01	Time clocks and time cards must be used to provide an accurate and complete record of all time worked. Time cards and copies of pay cheque stubs to be made available to the Union upon request. No employee shall record or be asked to record times other than those which show the following:
(a] Starting Time
No letail driver salesman shall commence or be required to commence work before 6:00 a.m.
38
(b) Finishing Time
Provided that an employee shall not be deemed to have completed his day's work until he has completed all duties required of him by the Company, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, until he has unloaded his truck refueled and checked his truck: balanced his daily load sheet or other records of goods supplied and sales made; completed any other necessary records; and attended at any meeting or interview called or requested by the Company.
33.02	No driver salesman shall perform work of
any nature prior to recording his starting time nor
after recording his finishing time.
33.03
(a)	All Driver Salesmen shall work the principle of a four (4) day work week with three (3) days off per week as follows:
Retail -Saturday, Sunday, Wednesday Wholesale - Saturday, Sunday, or Sunday, Monday, plus one other day
(b)	Ten (lO)hours shall constitute a day's work and four (4) ten (10) hour days shall constitute aweek's work.
All work in excess of ten (10) hours per day shall be paid for at the overtime rate of double time.
(c)	In the event that any of these Driver Salesmen completes his work in less than ten (10) hours in any one day, he shall be deemed to have worked ten (10) hours on that day.
(d)	No employee shall be required to work longer than five (5) hours overtime m any one week provided however:
1.	Hours worked on days off are not included.
2.	Shifts must be completed as required.
39
3.	Overtime resulting from start up cf new equipment not included.
4.	Overtime due to inclement weather or mechanical breakdown not included.
5.	Overtime due to delays or conditions not attributable to the normal workload not included.
33.04	The overtime rates of pay shall be as follows:
Oct Apr. Oct Apr. July 1/86	1/87	1/87 1/88	1/88
Route Foreman (Retail)
Route Foreman (Wholesalel Holiday Reliefman (Retail)
Holiday Reliefman (Wholesale) Retail Driver Salesman Combination Milk and Ice Cream Wholesale Driver Salesman
33.15 33.45 34.45 34.75 34.75 35.66 35.96 36.96 37.26 37.66 32.29 32.59 33.59 33.89 33.89 35.32 35.62 36.62 36.92 36.92 31.20 31.50 32.50 32.80 32.80 34.18 34.48 35.48 35.78 35.78 33.78 34.08 35.08 35.38 35.38
33.05	Should a dispute arise in respect to the time taken to complete a mute or mutes, no driver salesman, reliefman, holiday reliefman, or route foreman, shall be subject to any change in status until the Union has investigated the route or routes involved by sending an Agent of the Union along with the employee involved in the dispute, or an appointee of the Company.
33.06	AH sums earned by way of overtime shall be paid for in the pay period following that in which they were earned.
33.07	No driver shall be asked or required to service or maintain trucks or equipment. This does not include driving his vehicle to the proper parking area.
40
33.08	Each driver salesman shall be entitled to a ten (10)minute break in the forenoon and afternoon
33.09	All retail and retail combination routes shall be loaded or prestacked in an approved manner. A pretimed departure schedule shall be posted so that each route mav reach the delivery area not later than 7:00
A.M.
33.10	New, inexperienced driver salesmen shall be excluded from the overtime provisions of this Clause for a period of five (5)calendar weeks from date of assignment to the learning of a route, provided such overtime is not occasioned by:
[a)	Mechanical breakdown
(b)	Delays or conditions, or overtime, not attributable to said driver salesman.
33.11	Salesmen who transfer from retail to wholesale or from wholesale to retail or new, experienced driver salesmen (Clause 18.02), shall be excluded from the overtime provisions c£ this Clause for a period c£ three (3)calendar weeks from the date of assignment to the learning of a route, provided such overtime is not occasioned by:
(a)	Mechanical breakdown
(b)	Delays or conditions, or overtime, not attributable to said driver salesman.
Provisions of this Clause shall be waived if the employee is directed to the new department as a result of a reduction in the work force.
33.12	Split Routes
When a Salesman's route is sp lit. the affected Salesman, Eloliday Reliefman and Route Foreman shall receive at least the same wages for a period of three (3) months as the average of the earnings of the route for the twelve (12)c alendar months previous to the load being split.
41
This shall not apply to men who have been in the employ of the Company less than twelve (12) months.
CLAUSE 34
DELIVERIES BY SPECIALS
34.01	Any sales or deliveries made to any customer in any area must be recorded on the working day following the sale or delivery, as sales on the route covering this area.
CLAUSE 35 WAGES
35.01	The Employer shall pay wages to every employee covered by this Agreement at the rates set forth in Schedules "A", ”B”, "C", "D” and " E hereunto annexed in respect of the various classifications c£ work therein contained.
35.02	Schedules "A", "B", "C”, ”D" and " E shall be deemed to be contained in and form a part of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 36 UNIT VALUES
36.01	For ail fluid sales on retail routes:
1 - 4 litre Milk
1	- litre Milk (any kind)
2	- 500 ml. Milk (any kind) 4 - 200 ml. Milk (any kind) 1 - 20 litre Milk (any kind)
4 rrri-ts
1 unit 1 unit 1 unit 20 Units
1 - litre Creamo
1	- 500 ml. Creamo
2	- 250 ml. Creamo 1 - 20 Litre Creamo
3 units
11/2 units
1 l/2 Units
60 units
100 Tetra Pack Creamers
4 1/2 ir±ts
42
Fountain Whip
3 units
1 - Litre Whipping Cream 1 - 500 ml. Whipping Cream 1 - 250 ml. Whipping Cream 1 - 20 litre Whipping Cream
6 Units 3 Units 1 1/2 Units
120 units
1 - 500 ml. sourcream 1 - 250 ml. sour cream 1 - 2 litre Sour Cream
2 units 1 unit 8 Units
3bguct sleeve 4 ce. Yogurt 1 - 250 gr. Yogurt 1 - 500 gr. Yogurt 1 - kg. Yogurt
1 unit 1/2 unit 1 unit
2 units
4 units
Orange Juice
Orange Drink
Apple Juice
Lemonade
200 ml. Fruit Drink
1 unit 1 Unit 1 unit 1 Unit 1/4 Unit
1 lb. Margarine 1 lb. Butter
1 - 250 gr. Cottage Cheese 1 - 500 gr. Cottage Cheese 1 kg. Cottage Cheese 13 oz. Cheddar Cheese Cream Cheese 1 doz. Eggs 1 - litre Eggnog
1 unit 1 unit 1/2 Unit 1 unit 2 units
i 1/2 units
1 Unit 1 unit 2 units
CLAUSE 37
EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT
37.01 This Agreement shall be. irL cf£c£.t..from..QctoJ ber lUOSB to September 30, 1988 and irom yeanloyear
thereafter unless notice of abrogation or amendment sEaII~be givenTiy either Party to the other Party in writing, four (4) months prior to the anniversary date hereof/ in any year.
43
37.02	This Agreement voids all previous agreements or letters c£ understanding which in any way alters the terms and conditions contained herein.
CLAUSE 38 SAVINGS CLAUSE
38.01	The within Agreement and schedules hereto annexed shall be subject to, and shall be interpreted, and, where necessary, altered, varied, or amended from time to time to give effect to the laws enacted by the Parliament of Canada and Province of British Columbia, including amendments thereto and regulations or orders-in-councilmade or passed thereunder.
38.02	In the event that any Clause or Section is held invalid or enforcement of or compliance with which has been restrained, as above set forth, the Parties affected thereby shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations, upon the request of either Party for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such Clause or Section during the period of invalidity or restraint. If the Parties do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement, they shall submit the dispute to the procedure as outlined in Clause 8.
38.03	It is clearly understood however, that the Agreement or any sections thereof, which are not held invalid or restrained, shall continue in effect for the balance of the period of the Collective Agreement.
44
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Party of the First Part has hereunto affixed its seal in the presence of its Officers duly authorized therefor, and the Party of the Second E&rt has hereunto affixed its signature by its Officers duly authorized therefor.
DATED AT Victoria, British Columbia, this day of , 1987.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
45
SCHEDULE "A"
The following wages shall be paid: Production Department, etc.
Oct.
Classification	1/86
A.	Assistant Foreman	17.83
Flead Checker	16.89
B.	Pasteurizer Class I	16.86
Ice Cream Maker	16.86
Cottage Cheese Maker	16.86
Ice Cream Mix Maker	16.86
C.	Pasteurizer Class II	16.73
D.	Pure Pak Operator	16.57
C.I.P. Operator	16.57
Checker and/or Loader	16.57
Cottage Cheese and/or
Yogurt Machine Operator	16.57
WAGES PER HOUR Apr.	Oct.	Apr.
1/87	1/87 1/88
17.98
17.04
17.01
17.01
17.01
17.01
16.88
16.72
16.72
16.72
16.72
18.48
17.54
17.51
17.51
17.51
17.51
17.38
17.22
17.22
17.22
17.22
18.63
17.69
17.66
17.66
17.66
17.66
17.53
17.37
17.37
17.37
17.37
July
1/88
18.83
17.69
17.86
17.86
17.86
17.86
17.53
17.37
17.37
17.37
17.37
Classification
Freezer Operator Bulk Pack Operator Creamer Operator Bottle Machine Operator
WAGES PER HOUR
Oct.
1/86
16.57
16.57
16.57
16.57
Apr.
1/87
16.72
16.72
16.72
16.72
Oct.
1/87
17.22
17.22
17.22
17.22
Apr.
1/88
17.37
17.37
17.37
17.37
E. Dairy Worker Packager Janitor
16.38
15.60
15.84
16.53
15.75
15.99
17.03
16.25
16.49
17.18
16.40
16.64
F. Summer Help Checker/Loadei Dairy Worker
11.00	11.00	11.00
10.50	10.50	10.50
Packager
10.00 10.00 10.00
G. Holiday Relief
Classifications A. B. & C All other classifications
17.46
17.17
17.61
17.32
18.11
17.82
18.26
17.97
July
1/88
17.37
17.37
17.37
17.37
17.18
16.40
16.64
11.00
10.50
10.00
18.46
17.97
Any classified vacancies shall be posted to allow plant employees first opportunity prior to using Summer Help. The Employer reserves ihe right (per Clause 10) to assign regular employees to such jobs.
Any employee required to be a First Aid Attendant shall be paid a weekly premium for the necessary first aid certificate as follows:
"A" Certificate - .700 per hour "BM Certificate - .600 per hour "C" Certificate - .500 per hour
^	Premiums:
Freezerman (Any employee working fifty percent (50%) or more of his daily shift in the sharp freeze room) • 400 per hour premium.
A premium of 200 per hour above classified rates provided herein shall be paid to all employees regularly operating a ride on forklift or tow motor fifty percent (50%) or more of their regular shift.
SCHEDULE ”B”
		WAGES PER		HOUR	
Classification	Oct. 1/86	Apr. 1/87	Oct. 1/87	Apr. 1/88	July 1/88
Wholesale Driver Salesman (Ice Cream or Fluid)	16.89	17.04	17.54	17.69	17.69
		WAGES PER		HOUR	
Classification	Oct. 1/86	Apr. 1/87	Oct. 1/87	Apr. 1/88	July 1/88
Wholesale Driver Salesman-Combination Route (Milk and
IceCream)	17.09	17.24	17.74	17.89	17.89
Holiday Reliefman	17.66	17.81	18.31	18.46	18.46
Route Foreman	17.83	17.98	18.48	18.63	18.83
Country - Overnight - Ice Cream (SI.15 per week extra for Ice Cream Driver Salesmen, Holiday Reliefmen, Route Foremen in addition while employed on country-overnight routes).
8
SCHEDULE "C"
(Retail Driver Salesmen, Holiday Reliefmen, Route Foreman)
WAGES PER WEEK
Classification
Retail Driver Salesmen Guarantee
Base Wage
Oct. Apr. Oct. Apr. July 1/86	1/87	1/87	1/88	1/88
624.04 630.04 650.04 656.04 656.04 521.09 527.09 547.09 553.09 553.09
Plus:
Retail units up to 11,219 per period (four weeks) Retail units 11,220 to 15,707 per period Retail units 15,708 and up per period Wholesale Units on Retail Routes
3.140 per unit 4.410 per unit 6.320 per unit 2.150 per unit
Oct. Apr.	Oct.	Apr.	July
1/86 1/87	1/87 1/88	1/88
Holiday Reliefman
Guarantee	645.88 651.88 671.88 677.88 677.88
Or the average of all routes they relieve plus - $16.26 whichever is the greater.
01
Oct.	Apr.	Oct.	Apr.	July
1/86 1/87	1/87	1/88	1/88
Route Foreman
Guarantee	663.04 669.04 689.04 695.04 695.04
Or the average of all routes they relieve and/or supervise plus - $32.65 whichever is the greater.
All Apartment House Routes - an additional - $8.13 on base wages.
In any district, a route with 50% or more of its customers in apartments shall be classed as an Apartment Route.
SCHEDULE"D"
Classification
Drivers
Oct.
1/86
(Not Driver Salesmen)
WAGES PER HOUR Apr.	Oct.	Apr.	July
1/87	1/87	1/88 1/88
Holiday Reliefman Semi-Trailer Driver Tanker Driver Hauling Truck Driver Special Delivery Driver
17.66
17.07
17.01
16.53
16.53
17.81
17.22
17.16
16.68
16.68
18.31
17.72
17.66
17.18
17.18
18.46
17.87
17.81
17.33
17.33
18.46
17.87
17.81
17.33
17.33
A premium of 150 per hour shall be paid Holiday Reliefmen or Foremen while driving a semi-trailer.
01
to
When a pup trailer is added to the unit, the driver will be paid 50 per hour extra per pup axle over (he semi-trailer rate while pulling the pup.
WAGES PER HOUR
	Oct.	Apr.	Oct.	Apr.	July
Classification	1/86	1/87	1/87	1/88	1/88
Maintenance Staff Maintenance Man	18,16	18.31	18.81	18.96	19.21
Engineer Class IV	18.16	18.31	18 81	18.96	19.21
Mechanic (Truck)	18.16	18.31	18.81	18.96	19.21
Trade Helper	16.72	16.87	17.37	17.52	17.52
	SCHEDULE		"E"		
	OFFICE STAFF				
Categories, Classifications and Wage Rates
WAGES PER HOUR Oct. 1/86 Oct. 1/87
Category 1
General Clerk	13.37	13.62
	WAGES	PER HOUR
Category 2	Oct. 1/86	Oct. 1/87
Receptionist-Typist	13.63 Category 2	13.88
Intermediate Clerk Order Clerk Category 3 Comptometer Operator	13.63	13.88
Computer Operator Category 4	14.02	14.27
Cashiers Category 5 Payroll	14.20	14.45
Vouchers Payable Senior Clerk	14.95	15.20
It i s agreed that persons employed as management trainee or a private secretary will not be required to become a member of the Union while employed ana working in that Capacity.
It is further agreed: That all the provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all office staff falling within the jurisdiction of the Union as outlined in Schedule “ E save where amended below.
Nothing in any of the provisions of this Schedule, or in the amendments listed below, shall in any way limit, void or affect the other provisions of this Agreement.
A. DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
The standard work week shall be 35 hours. Each employee may choose to work either five 7 hours days or our 8 3/4 hour days. An employee may request permission to change his or her choice and such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. The basis for refusal shall be that the change would unduly affect the efficient operation of the business.
All hours worked in excess cf 7 in the case of a five day week, or 8 3/4 in the case of a four day week shall be paid at the rate cf double time.
All employees shall receive two (2)consecutive days off each week. Each week shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday.
A schedule cf time off shall be posted so that employees shall have at least seven (7) days advance notice of days cff except where the unforseen absence of another employee requires a shifting of office personnel. Any employee required to work on any of his or her days off shall be paid at double time for all hours worked.
54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN Island Farms Dairies
Co-operative Association.
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	Teamsters Local Union No. 464
OF THE SECOND PART
It is agreed and understood that the Employer will provide tool insurance for their maintenance staff at no cost to the employee, covering loss due to fire or theft (as per insurance regulations) to a maximum of $2,000.00.
It is further agreed that the Employer will reimburse these employees for any losses resulting from tool breakage occurring on the job.
A Tool Depreciation Allowance of 10% of the value of tools to a maximum of $200.00 per man per year shall also be provided.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
55
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	Palm Dairies Limited (Victoria)
Island Farms Dairies Co-operative Association.
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	Teamsters Local Union No. 464
OFTHE SECONDPART
It is agreed to and understood that for one employee per company, the charge to the Union for time served at the bargaining table negotiating with management for the renewal of the collective agreement will be at the base rate and will not include fringe benefits.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OFTHE SECOND PART
56
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	Palm Dairies Limited (Victoria)
Island Farms Dairies Co-operative Association.
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	Teamsters Local Union No. 464
O F THE SECOND PART
It is agreed and understood that part-time employees who do not work more than fifty percent (50°/opi the standard work week for their job classification, as determined in arrears for each calendar quarter of the year: shall reimburse the employer for welfare benefits provided, unless they have opted for no coverage. Advance payroll deductions will be made for 2/3 of the monthly premiums for the benefits chosen by the employee.
PARTY OFTHE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
57
APPENDIX A'
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 464 DAIRY INDUSTRY PENSION ELAN
VANCOUVER ISLAND DIVISION FOR
ALL OF ITS MEMBERS EMPLOYED AT ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION PALM DAIRIES LIMITED
I. BASIC PLAN PROVISIONS
This plan shall operate pursuant to the collective
agreement on the following basis
(a)	The Plan will be operated by a Board of Trustees which will consist c£ six (6) persons, three (3) to be named, by the Union and three (3) to be named by the employers. Such Trustees and their successors shall be responsible for the administration and operation of the Plan and Fund and shall have all powers necessary to create, amend or terminate the Plan and Fund consistent with the terms of the Collective Agreement in effect from time to time. Each Trustee shall have one vote.
(b)	The Trustees shall select a Chairman and a Secretary. These persons shall not have a casting vote on any matters under consideration by the Trustees.
(c)	The Trustees shall meet and shall decide on the type and form of the Pension Plan and may employ legal counsel, actuaries and other consultants or advisors as they deem necessary or advisable.
(d)	The Trustees shall have the exclusive right to determine the provisions of the Plan and the benefits
58
provided thereunder from time to time and the use of all contributions plus investment earnings thereon received by the Plan. These shall be used only for the benefit of employees on whose behalf contributions are or have been made to the Plan and to meet necessary Plan expenses.
(e)	The Employer and the Union shall enter into a Trust Agreement with the Trustees. The Trust Agreement shall provide that in the event that the Trustees are deadlocked on any issue concerning the Plan or Fund the matter shall be submitted for arbitration by a mutually agreeable party or failing mutual agreement on an arbitrator by a Judge appointed by the Supreme Court of British Columbia.
(1) The Employers shall from time to time provide all information which is required for the administration of the Plan and shall assist and co-operate in the Plan’s administration. Reasonable assistance rendered by the Employers shall be rendered without charge to the Trustees.
(g)	The Trustees shall establish a Trust Account into which contributions shall be paid pending execution of the Trust Agreement and establishment of the Plan.
(h)	The Plan shall not require the Employers to guarantee the benefits or assure the solvency of the Fund and further that all costs of establishing the Plan and all costs of operation and administration [except as provided in (f) above) shall be paid from the assets of the Plan.
(i)	The Trustees may effect arrangements with the Employers and other Trustees of pension plans to permit reciprocal inter-plan transfers.
(j)	The Trust Agreement shall permit the Trustees, in certain events and upon certain conditions to transfer the assets and liabilities to another Board of Trustees provided such transfer shall not ad-
59
versely affect the benefits or rights of the members of the Plan.
(k)	The Employers shall be required to make payments to the Pension Trust Fund as herein set forth. Such contributions shall be, for each employee working in a job classification covered by the Collective Agreement:
(a) five and threequarter percent (5.75%)ofhis
§ross earnings from October 1, 1986 up to eptember30th, 1987, and
(b) six percent (6%)of his gross earnings from October 1, 1987.
It is understood that contributions shall be payable in respect to the earnings of employees from the first day of employment whether said employees are permanent, temporary, or seasonal or full time or part time employees and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union.
The gross earnings of an employee shall be the sum of his regular earnings, overtime, shift differential, premiums and any other earnings payable to the employee in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
Contributions along with a list of employees for whom they have been made and the amount c£ contribution in respect to each employee and his regular earnings shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Custodian of the assets of the Plan designated by the Trustees. A copy of the list of employees shall also be mailed to the Administrator of the Plan.
Such payment shall be made to the custodian for each pay period not later than twenty-one (21) days afterthe end c£ each pay period. The Employers shall also submit to the Plan Administrator within ninety |gaS))days following the end of each plan year a listing c£ all employees who were covered by the Plan during such plan year showing,
60
for each, the regular earnings upon which the Employer's contributions were Dased during the plan year. Copies of all the listings shall also be forwarded if required to the Union. These listings shall also contain such other information as the Plan Administrator and actuary may require for the operation of the plan.
(1)	It is intended that the Plan and Trust Fund shall be such that the Plan can be registered under the provisions of the Income Tax Act of Canada and any other applicable Federal or Provincial law respecting employee pension plans.
61
Keep your Beneficiary Card up fc> date.. Motif/ the Union office at once of ary change.
NotlfjiJhe Union office at once of any change of addrata

If you leave the Industry you muat gat a Withdrawal Card immediately.
A good Union member is an Informed Union member.. .
ATTEND YOUR UNION MEETINGS!
X
Be UNION ... Buy UNION