BETWEEN
(juv^ cJJ\an^o o-d

DAIRYWORLD FOODS	*	_
and its branches at Calgary,	ry , ^ ^. jp
Medicine Hat, Lethbridge, Red Deer, ^
Banff, Stettler and Edmonton (former Alpha depot)
hereinafter called the “Company”
AND
MISCELLANEOUS EMPLOYEES TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL 987 OF ALBERTA
hereinafter called the “Union”
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
DAIRY WORLD FOODS	A ciWm
and its branches at Calgary,
Medicine Hat, Lethbridge, Red Deer, ^ 3110 I ^	'
Banff, Stettler and Edmonton (former Alpha depot)
hereinafter called the “Company”
AND
MISCELLANEOUS EMPLOYEES TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL 987 OF ALBERTA
hereinafter called the “Union”
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
DAIRYWORLD FOODS and its branches at Calgary,
Medicine Hat, Lethbridge, Red Deer,
Banff, Stetder & Edmonton
and
MISCELLANEOUS EMPLOYEES TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL 987 OF ALBERTA
Article No.
Page No.
1,
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
i j..
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17,
18. 19.
Intent and Purpose...................
Management Control ..................
Employees Included............., . . . .
Union Security ......................
Bargain with and Ratification ........
Continuity of Work ..................
Seniority............................
Hours of Work .......................
Wages ...............................
Annual Vacations.....................
Paid Holidays .......................
Shop Stewards........................
Grievance Procedure Summer Relief and Part-Time Employees .
Mutual Interest .....................
Health and Welfare ............, . . . .
Industrial Standards Act. . Renewal Industrial Standards Schedule . . . Duration, Termination and Amendments
Appendix A ..........................
Letters of Understanding.............
2
2
2
3
3
4 4
8
9
9
11 11
12
15
16
21
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE NO. 1 - INTENT AND PURPOSE
1:01 It is the intent and purpose of this Agreement that the Company and the Union co-operate to obtain an efficient and unrestricted production and distribution of dairy products, to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its Employees, and to provide a method of settling in an amicable manner any difference or grievance which may from time to time arise, and to set forth rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE NO. 2 - MANAGEMENT CONTROL
2:01 Responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the business of the Company shall rest exclusively with the Management. Management personnel will not perform duties of the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE NO. 3 - EMPLOYEES INCLUDED
3:01 The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all Employees including
Route Foremen of the Company at Calgary, Medicine Hat, Lethbridge, Red Deer, Banff, Stettler and Edmonton who belong to the craft or crafts included in the Union, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall exclude specifically office workers and Employees engaged in any kind of supervision who have the right to hire, discharge or change the status of Employees except for Route Foremen.
3:02 Probationary Employees retained as permanent staff shall be deemed to be on permanent staff as of the date of commencing the most recent period of continuous employment. Seniority provisions of this Agreement shall be effective from the date, subject to the one hundred and twenty (120) days probationary period described in Article 7:02.
3:03 Gender except where specifically stated to the contrary or where the sense requires the contrary, use of the term “he”, “him”, or “his”, throughout this Agreement will be considered to also mean “she”, “her”, or “hers”.
Page 2
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
3:04 Each location noted in Clause 3:01 is considered to be a distinct bargaining unit for the purposes of applying this agreement.
ARTICLE NO. 4 - UNION SECURITY
4:01 The Union shall supply the Company with application forms for Union membership and dues deductions which shall be signed by all new Employees on the day on which the new Employee is hired. All completed copies of the application for membership forms shall be returned to the Union and shall serve as notification of commencement of employment.
The Union shall supply the Company with application forms for pension benefits, these forms shall be signed on the day on which the new Employee is hired. All completed copies are to be sent to the Union Office.
4:02 Upon written request of an Employee, the Company will, in accordance with the tenor of the request, deduct the Employee’s initiation fee and monthly Union dues, remitting same, together with a list of the Employees from whom the deductions have been made, to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union, on or before the 15th day of the following calendar month in which the dues are deducted.
4:03 The Company agrees to supply the Shop Steward of the Department concerned with a list of the new Employees each month.
4:04 It is agreed by the Employer and the Union that no Employee will make or be asked to make any written or verbal agreement conflicting with this Agreement.
ARTICLE NO. 5 - BARGAIN WITH AND RATIFICATION
5:01 Pursuant to the corresponding Certificates of Certification issued by the Labour Relations Board, the Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for the Employees of the Company covered by this Agreement, and will bargain only with the Union, and duly appointed representatives thereof, on behalf of the Employees of the Company.
Page 3
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
5:02 This Agreement will be ratified by Union member Employees, whose decision will be final, and neither Union members employed by other companies, nor non-Union employees employed by the Company, shall have any voice in ratifying this Agreement, or amendments thereof that may be made in the future.
ARTICLE NO. 6 - CONTINUITY OF WORK
6:01 There shall be no cessation of work, or slow down of any kind by the
Employees, or lock-out by the Company, during the time this Agreement is in force, or in the process of being renewed or amended.
6:02 In the event of any other milk company or companies having difficulty in
production and/or distribution by reason of a dispute between such company or companies and its or their employees, the Company will not require the Employees to which this Agreement applies to perform the additional work to that which they ordinarily perform, and the Employees agree to perform their usual work as though such dispute did not exist. This is not intended to restrict the Company from developing new business opportunities for our product lines.
6:03 No employee covered by this Agreement shall be required to cross any legal picket line.
6:04 The business agent is allowed to visit the Company premises, but shall not conduct Union business on Company time.
ARTICLE NO. 7 SENIORITY
7:01 Seniority shall be based on the length of continuous service an Employee has been on the payroll.
7:02 A probationary period of one hundred and twenty (120) days on the payroll shall apply in the case of each new Employee, during which time seniority shall not apply, and an Employee may be laid off without reference to seniority and the Company shall not be obligated to re-hire such an Employee. After having completed this probationary period, or upon being recalled within nine (9) months after being laid off, the Employee’s seniority and service records shall date back to the beginning of his employment.
Page 4
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
7:03
7:04
a)	An Employee’s seniority shall prevail in consideration of all applications for jobs as classified in Appendix “A” above the rank of “Group 4" and excluding the classification of “Route Foreman” with merit and ability being considered.
b)	Employees desiring a transfer to a full time position in classification Group 4 shall do so, in writing, to the plant superintendent. Based upon the employee’s seniority and ability, the company shall award the next vacant position to said employee(s) before hiring from the outside. The twenty (20) day qualifying period in 7:04 b) will not apply. The previous job will be posted in accordance with the contract.
a)	When a vacancy or a new job is created it will be posted, in each department, on the bulletin boards for five (5) working days during which period an Employee, with seniority, may make written application for such vacancy. Employees within the department containing such vacancy will be given first consideration for the vacancy. Any immediate changes to a job that is posted will be made prior to posting. The Company is only required to post one additional vacancy that may arise out of the filling of the first vacancy. Any subsequent vacancies may be filled as determined by the Company.
b)	The successful applicant will be advised within five (5) working days of the expiry of the five (5) working day posting period. Upon filling the vacancy, the successful applicant will be allowed a reasonable time in which to qualify for a period of twenty (20) working days following a placement resulting from the successful bidding for a job vacancy, the employee shall be permitted to return to his former job. The Company shall also have the right to return such employee to his former job within (20) working days if he is found incapable of satisfactorily performing the duties of the job vacancy. Should he be returned, the job will not be reposted but will be filled from the applicants to the original posting, based on the considerations noted in Clause 7:03 a).
Page 5
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
c)	The company will maintain a position up to 12 consecutive months for employees on Worker’s Compensation (W.C.B.) or company disability. Employee’s returning to work after 12 consecutive months on Worker’s Compensation (W.C.B.) or disability will be given duties as assigned, subject to being capable of performing the work available.
d)	The successful applicant will be selected by the Company and such selection shall be made in a manner consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
e)	The Company reserves the right to place wholesale drivers on whatever route(s) it deems necessary.
f)	Any employee who bids on any posted vacancy and is successful, shall not bid on any other vacancy for a period of 1 (one) year, unless it is a higher wage rated classification.
7:05 In determining vacancies, promotions, demotions, lay-offs and recall, seniority shall be on a Departmental basis, as follows:
The following departments shall apply:
Calgary
A - Production Plant and shipping B - Home Service
C - Wholesale Milk & Ice Cream Sales D - Garage Staff E - Lab Staff F - Cheese Department G - Maintenance & Engineering
Lethbridge
A - Shipping Department B - Wholesale Milk & Ice Cream Sales Staff C - Home Service Sales Staff D - Garage E - Maintenance
Page 6
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
7:06
7:07
Medicine Hat
A - Wholesale Milk & Ice Cream Sales Staff B - Shipping Department C - Cheese Factory, Lab & Maintenance
Red Deer
A - Wholesale Milk & Ice Cream Sales Staff B - Shipping & Receiving C - Maintenance
Stettler. Edmonton & Banff
A - Wholesale Milk & Ice Cream Sales Staff B - Shipping & Receiving (if applicable)
C - Maintenance (if applicable)
a)	In the event of a reduction in staff in a Department, the junior Employee of the Department shall be the first subject to lay-off, except, if he has the qualifications (or is able to obtain said qualifications in a reasonable period time) and ability and is capable of performing the work of the most junior employee in the plant/branch with a reasonable amount of training, the latter Employee will be subject to layoff. Notwithstanding the above, no employee with a special qualification or skill rating or licensing requirement will be used to block the layoff procedure, and bumping will take place as if the position did not exist.
b)	If the Company determines that temporary layoffs of less than 60 days are necessary, Clause 7:06 a) (see above) does not apply and no notice is required. Those on temporary layoff will continue to be eligible for applicable company benefits.
The Company agrees to re-hire on a seniority basis, Employees who have been laid off for a period not exceeding nine (9) consecutive months; providing the Employee is capable of performing the duties of the vacancy, with seniority from the first day of employment with the Company prior to being laid off.
Page 7
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
7:08 A list showing the seniority of each Employee, based on the length of
service an Employee has been on the payroll, shall be compiled and kept posted on the bulletin boards. This list shall be revised every three (3) months and posted on the bulletin boards. Any errors shall be reported to the Chairman of the Shop Stewards for correction.
7:09 An Employee shall lose all seniority rights and his Employee status with the Company shall be cancelled in all respect if he:
a)	voluntarily leaves the Company,
b) is discharged for just cause,
c)	is laid off by the Company for a period exceeding nine (9) consecutive months.
7:10 Any employee who accepts pay in lieu of notice as stipulated in the
Employment Standards Code prior to the expiry of the recall period or severance will forfeit all recall rights.
7:11 It is agreed that the Laboratory Supervisor shall be allowed to perform
bargaining unit work, and be the last person to be laid off in the department.
ARTICLE NO. 8 - HOURS OF WORK
8:01 A pay period is defined as a fourteen (14) consecutive day period that commences at 2400 hours Saturday.
Regular Employees will normally work 80 hours per pay period; eight (8) days, ten (10) hours per day or ten (10) days, eight (8) hours per day, with a minimum of two consecutive days off per week. Scheduled days of the week and hours per day will be determined by the company, based on operational and business needs.
Drivers shall only be paid for actual hours worked but the Company shall endeavor, where practical, to reasonably schedule close to an eighty (80) hour pay period.
8:03 Overtime at one and one half (11/2) the regular rate shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of the regular scheduled hours per day or per pay period.
8:02 a)
b)
Page 8
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
8:04
8:05
8:06
8:07
8:08
The company shall provide all employees two (2) fifteen (15) minute paid rest periods, one in the first half of the shift and the second in the second half of the shift. The company shall provide for a half hour unpaid lunch break.
Employees required to work any of their regular daily shifts outside of the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. shall be paid a shift differential of: sixty cents (600) per hour for all hours of their regular daily shift worked prior to 7:00 a.m. or after 6.00 p.m. Shift differential shall not apply to overtime hours worked.
In the event any changes are to take place in the Employee’s days of rest, twenty-four (24) hours’ notice shall be given to the Employees affected by the change (not applicable in cases of emergency, i.e. fire, flood or act of God).
The Company agrees that an accurate record of hours of work for all Employees covered by this Agreement shall be kept, and no Employee shall record or be asked to record times other than their actual hours of work.
The Company may use mechanical or electronic time clocks for time keeping purposes. All time cards shall be signed by the Employee, and by the Supervisor in charge, and all Employees shall be paid in accordance with the time cards.
Call In
Where an Employee is called to work on one of his scheduled days off, he will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the overtime rate.
An Employee who has left the Company’s premises and is specially called outside of his scheduled hours for emergency work shall be through when the emergency is over. For such emergency work, being that outside of scheduled hours, he shall be paid for (4) hours at his job rate or for the hours actually worked at the overtime rate, whichever is greater.
Page 9
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
The above does not apply to such work immediately preceding or following the Employee’s scheduled hours or if the Employee leaves after eight hours even though such departure from the premises precedes his regular scheduled end of shift. Employees called in early will have the right to work their regular shift.
ARTICLE NO. 9 - WAGES
9:01 Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement is Appendix “A” setting forth the wage rates and classifications of all Employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE NO. 10 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
10:01 Annual vacations with pay shall be granted to all Employees covered by this Agreement, on the following basis:
After 1 year of continuous service After 4 years of continuous service After 11 years of continuous service After 22 years of continuous service
-	2 weeks
-	3 weeks
-	4 weeks
-	5 weeks
10:02 Vacation pay will be based on the employee’s regular hourly rate not
including overtime. Summer relief and part-time employees are not entitled to vacations, but will receive vacation pay equal to 4% of their regular earnings
10:03 Vacation will be scheduled on a calendar basis from January to December, excluding the period December 14 to December 24. Each employee shall take their vacation during the calendar year in which they are entitled to it.
10:04 a) Those Employees with less than one year, prior to March 1 of each year are entitled to one (1) day for each 208 hours actually worked (vacation time not to exceed 80 hours).
b) Commencing in the calendar year during which the employees second anniversary falls, vacation may be scheduled throughout the calendar year subject to Clause 10:05.
Page 10
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
c)	In the calendar year during which the employees’ 4th, 1 1th and 22nd anniversary falls, the employee qualifies for the additional entitlement and it may be scheduled throughout the calendar year.
10:05 a) Employees on each schedule shall choose their vacation dates in order of seniority based on department/unit guidelines to be posted each year.
The senior Employee will choose his vacation date first, and should he decide, in accordance with the selection procedure herein contained, to split his vacation into two periods he shall not make his second selection until all other Employees on the schedule have made their first selection. No Employee, on his first selection, may take more than three continuous weeks vacation during the months of May to September inclusive. The next senior Employee will follow the same procedure and so on down the schedule until all Employees have made their selections.
b)	An Employee may take his entire vacation in one continuous period during the months of October to April. However, no vacation may be taken in the period December 14 to December 24.
10.06 In the event an employee resigns or is terminated, vacation pay will be calculated at 2% of regular earnings for each week of entitlement from January 1 to the date of termination plus any vacation entitlement not taken in the current calendar year.
ARTICLE NO. 11 - PAID HOLIDAYS
11:01 Employees currently on payroll for more than thirty (30) calendar days shall be entitled to recognized general holidays with pay equal to their regular hourly rate for their scheduled hours of work. In order to qualify for holiday pay, employees must work their last scheduled shift prior to the holiday and their first scheduled shift after the holiday and the holiday, if scheduled; unless absent due to illness verified by a doctor’s certificate. Employees who are scheduled to work the holiday and do not , due to a verified illness, will receive the holiday pay but do not qualify for sick benefit.
Page 11
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
11:02 The following general holidays are recognized:
New Year’s Day, Family Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, August Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
11:03 All general holidays are recognized for pay purposes on the actual day on
which they fall. Canada Day is the only holiday with an exception (i.e. It is recognized on July 1 st except when it falls on Sunday, in which case Monday, July 2nd becomes the holiday).
11:04 Employees who are required to work on a general holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (1/2) their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on that day in addition to their regular days pay for the general holiday.
ARTICLE NO. 12 - SHOP STEWARDS
12:01 The number of Shop Stewards in a bargaining unit will be agreed upon between local Management and the Union. All of such Stewards shall be Employees of the bargaining unit defined herein, who have attained seniority, and shall be elected by the Union and recognized by the Company. The Union will advise the Company in writing of the names of such Stewards.
The elected Shop Stewards shall appoint a chairman form among themselves. Their duties shall be to see that the members of the Union abide by the rules and regulations of the Company, the Union, and the terms of this Agreement.
12:02 The Management agrees to hold, once a month, a meeting of the Shop Stewards, to discuss all difficulties that may arise, as well as discuss the good and welfare of the Company and its Employees.
12:03 The Union will elect and the Company agrees to recognize a Grievance Committee, the number agreed upon between local Management and the Union, whom shall be Employees of the bargaining unit defined herein, who have attained seniority. A list of Grievance committee members shall be furnished to the Company.
Page 12
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
12:04 Grievance meetings with the Grievance Committee shall be conducted at times suitable to the operation of the business, by arrangement between Company Management and the Chief Shop Steward. The Company will pay members of the Grievance Committee at their regular rates for time spent at meeting of the Grievance Committee with Management Representatives during regular working hours.
12:05 Before leaving his job or his Department in connection with any grievance, a shop Steward or member of the Grievance Committee must first obtain permission from the Supervisor of his Department. Should the grievance require such steward or member of the Grievance Committee to go into another Department, he must first report to the person in charge of the Department,
ARTICLE NO. 13 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
13:01 Should any alleged grievance arise as to the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement, such grievance shall be processed within ten (IO) working days after the circumstances giving rise to the grievance have originated or occurred, in the following manner and sequence:
FIRST STEP
Between the aggrieved Employee, with the Shop Steward, and his Department Head. The decision of the Department Head shall be given within three (3) working days following presentation of the grievance. Failing settlement, then,
SECOND STEP
Within three (3) working days following the decision under the first step, a meeting will be held between the Shop Steward and the Branch Manager. The decision of the Branch Manager shall be given within three (3) working days of such meeting. Failing settlement, then,
Page 13
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
THIRD STEP
Within three (3) working days following the decision under the Second Step, a meeting will be held between the Union Grievance Committee and a Committee designated by the Company. A staff representative of the Union will be present at the request of either the Company or the Union. A decision under this step will be given within five (5) working days following such meeting. The grievance will be presented in writing at this step by the grieving party. Failing settlement, then,
If the grievance remains unsettled, then within ten (10) working days of the date of the decision, under the third step, the grievance shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration as provided herein.
13:02 The term “working days” for purposes of this Article shall not be deemed to include Saturdays, Sundays and Paid Holidays.
13:03 If the Company wishes to grieve to the Union against any action of the Union, its officers or Members, the foregoing procedure may be followed commencing with the second step.
If an Employee, who has completed the probationary period, has an alleged grievance that he has been unjustly discharged, he shall notify the Company through the Grievance Committee within three (3) working days after date of separation stating the reason of objection to the discharge and the grievance will be considered commencing with the second step of Article 13:01.
13:04 Should any grievance arise directly between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement, the grievance shall be taken up commencing at the second step of Article 13-01
13:05 Pending settlement of any grievance, the aggrieved Employee shall perform the duties assigned to him.
13:06 a) If the Union and the Company cannot reach a settlement, following the third step of the Grievance Procedure, and upon request of either party, the grievance shall be submitted to the Board of Arbitration composed of three (3) members. The Company and the Union shall each select one (1) member, and the third member within seven (7) days shall be selected by mutual agreement of the two (2) members first selected.
Page 14
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
The third member shall be impartial and possess knowledge of Labour Management relations. The third member shall act as Chairman of the Board.
If agreement cannot be reached within seven (7) days, in respect to the appointment of the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration, the matter shall be referred to the Minister of Labour of the Province of Alberta who shall appoint a Chairman. No person involved directly in the controversy under consideration shall be a member of the Board of Arbitration.
b)	The Board of Arbitration shall receive and consider material evidence and contentions as the parties may offer and shall make such independent investigation as it deems essential to a full understanding and determination of the issues involved. In reaching its decision, the Arbitration Board shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
c)	The Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with the power to change, modify or alter any of the terms of the contract. All grievances submitted shall present an arbitrable issue under this contract, and shall not depend on, or involve, an issue of contention by either party which is contrary to any provisions of this contract, or which involves the determination of a subject matter not covered by or arising during the term of this contract.
d)	The findings and decision of the Board of Arbitration on all arbitrable questions shall be binding and enforceable on all parties. A decision of majority of the Board of Arbitration shall be deemed to be a decision of the Board.
e)	The expense of the Chairman shall be borne equally by the parties of the Arbitration.
f)	The Company and the Union may agree to a single arbiter, jointly selected rather than a Board consisting of three (3) members.
Page 15
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
ARTICLE NO. 14 - SUMMER RELIEF AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
14:01 The Company may employ summer relief and part-time Employees under
the following conditions:
a)	To supplement the regular work force, to provide additional help on an incidental basis to cover work periods and other such time to cover an absent Employee.
b)	Part-time and Summer Relief Employees shall not be employed or scheduled to the extent that their work results in the displacement or prevents the hiring or recall of full-time Employees.
c)	Each part-time and Summer Relief Employee shall, as a condition of continuing employment, pay each month Union dues in accordance with Article 4 of the Agreement for those months in which the Employee has earnings.
d)	A part-time Employee employed under the conditions set out in Clauses
a), b) and c) above shall not be guaranteed a minimum number of hours per week.
e)	Part-time Employees will be paid the wage rate as set out in Appendix “A” of this Agreement and should they be employed in classifications covered in Group 1, Group 2 or Group 3, then the appropriate wage shall apply.
f)	Part-time Employees shall be given first opportunity to qualify as regular Employees and be placed at the bottom of the seniority list if they meet all qualifications and their seniority date will be the date in which they become a full-time Employee.
g)	Summer relief shall be defined as those Employees hired between April 1st and September 15th of any calendar year for the purpose of temporarily replacing vacationing regular Employees. When a permanent vacancy occurs under Clause 7:04 it will be posted as provided therein.
Page 16
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
h)	A Summer Relief Employee will be paid at the Summer Relief Rate regardless of the classification in which he works. The “Inexperienced Help” section of the Agreement shall not apply to Summer Relief.
i)	Seniority will not accumulate during the period between April 1 st and September 15th inclusive, but in the event a Summer Relief Employee is retained as a regular Employee after September 15th, his probationary period under Article 7:02 will commence as of September 16th. Should he satisfactorily complete such probationary period, his seniority date will be established as his original date of hire as a “Summer Relief’ Employee.
j)	The Company will maintain in each department a list of part time employees and the total hours each part time employee has worked on a four (4) week basis. The shop steward will be granted access to said information on a “as requested” basis.
ARTICLE NO. 15 - MUTUAL INTEREST
15:01 The Union agrees that it will further the interests of the Company at all times to the limit of its ability.
15:02 Driver Sales Staff shall make every effort to collect cash for N.S.F. cheques. All N.S.F. cheques over two months old shall be written off the driver’s book.
15:03 a) An Employee promoted under Article 7:04 shall receive the higher rate when he becomes qualified, but such qualifying period for purposes of rate application will not exceed twenty (20) working days.
b)	Employees temporarily working on jobs of a higher rated classification shall not be paid the higher rate for the first four (4) hours of work. If however, the employee works at least four (4) hours, he/she shall receive the higher rated pay for the entire day. If he/she shall work in excess of twenty (20) hours in a given week on a higher rated job he/she will receive the higher rate for the entire week.
Page 17
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
15:04
15:05
15:06
15:07
a)	Any classification not included in this Agreement, any change in classification, or any change in method constituting a change in classification, shall be negotiated between the Company and the Union, at the time it comes into existence. If the parties fail to reach agreement, the matter shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall be empowered to make a binding Award.
b)	On any new product or container size introduced for sale, a commission rate shall be negotiated and established between the company and the Union. If negotiations are not satisfactorily concluded, the matter shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall be empowered to make a binding Award.
Before putting into effect any further curtailment of milk delivery during the life of this Agreement, Article 6 - Hours of Work, and Appendix “A”,
Wages and Classifications, shall be reopened for negotiations, and agreement reached on revision of same.
a)	Employees shall be paid bi-weekly.
b)	Commission shall be calculated up to the last working day of a week pay period, and included in the following four week pay period.
c)	All Employees shall be given a statement with each two week pay period pay cheque, showing overtime hours worked, if any, units sold, Home Service and Wholesale, base pay and commissions, and how the amount is computed, including deductions, if any.
Jury Duty or Subpoenaed as a Crown Witness
The Company shall continue to pay an Employee for scheduled hours at his regular wage for time he is away due to being summoned to serve Jury Duty. Within one (1) month of the Employee’s return to work he will reimburse the Company the full amount of any court fees received from the Government. It is understood that the Employee will report to work during regular hours that he is not required to attend court and may be required to produce a certificate of service from the Court Office if requested by the Company.
Page 18
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
15:08
15:09
15:10
Leave of Absence
a)	Leave of absence to a maximum of six (6) months may be granted to an Employee by the Company for good and sufficient reason upon application by the Employee provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the requirements of the business.
b)	If leave of absence is for a period of one (1) week or more, a written application shall be made by the Employee to the Company, and if leave is granted by the Company, it shall be confirmed in writing.
c)	Seniority shall accumulate through periods of such leave of absence, but where leave exceeds one (1) calendar month, the employee will be required to repay all premiums on any benefits to which he is entitled.
Compassionate Leave
That application for compassionate leave of absence must be made to the Department head and approved by the Manager. In the event of the death of a member of a regular employee’s immediate family, the Company will grant a bereavement leave of up to three (3) days, with pay, if the employee is scheduled to work. An additional leave of absence without pay may be granted based on individual circumstances.
“Immediate family” shall mean spouse, parents, child, brother, sister, grandparents, mother-in-law, father-in-law.
a)	Uniform - Plant/Garage Employee
The Company will provide and launder, without charge, designated outer work clothing required by plant, lab, maintenance & garage Employees in the performance of their duties. It is understood and agreed that such clothing will be treated with proper care by the Employee and will not be removed from Company premises under any circumstances.
b)	Uniforms - Delivery Employees
As a condition of employment, all delivery personnel shall wear only Company approved uniforms in the performance of their duties which shall be maintained in a clean and presentable condition at all times.
Page 19
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
Employees with more than one year seniority shall be provided with a Company uniform consisting initially of a jacket, two shirts, two pair of pants and an outer jacket, if required. Replacement items will be provided as required upon the return of worn out items.
c)	Safety Footwear
As a condition of employment, all plant, maintenance, shipping, garage and truck drivers shall be required to wear company approved safety footwear. Full time Employees who have completed their probationary period, as of February 1 of each year will receive a footwear allowance of seventy five ($75.00) dollars at that time.
15.11 Severance Pay
a)	A full time regular employee who is permanently laid off due to the discontinuance of an operation shall receive notice or pay in lieu of notice in accordance with the Employment Standards Code.
b)	In addition, the Company shall provide ‘severance pay’ consisting of the following schedule:
Employment Severance Standards Code Pay
More than 3 months, and Less than 2 yrs Less than 4 yrs Less than 6 yrs Less than 8 yrs Less than 10 yrs Less than 12 yrs Less than 14 yrs Less than 16 yrs Less than 18 yrs Less than 20 yrs More than 20 yrs
1	wk	1 wk
2	wks	2 wks
4	wks	3 wks
5	wks	4 wks
6	wks	5 wks
8 wks	6 wks
8 wks	7 wks
8 wks	8 wks
8 wks	9 wks
8 wks	10	wks
8 wks	12	wks
TOTAL
2wks 4 wks 7 wks 9 wks 11 wks
14	wks
15	wks
16	wks
17	wks
18	wks 20 wks
c)
'age 20
An employee accepting severance pay under this schedule shall be considered terminated.
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
d)	In the event vacancies arise at other Company locations, the Company shall give priority consideration to the re-hire of suitable employees.
ARTICLE NO. 16 - HEALTH AND WELFARE
The Company is to pay for yearly medical examination for all drivers compelled by law to take the examination.
16:01 Pension Pan
Effective May 1,1993 contributions to the Teamsters Pension Plan shall be eighty-five cents (850) per hour for all hours worked (including vacation & holiday pay but excluding overtime). This shall be increased to ninety cents (900) per hour effective May 1, 1994. The maximum hours will be 173 per month. Contributions will start on the day an employee begins work for the company.
It is agreed that the Teamsters Pension Plan as administered by Miscellaneous Employees, Teamsters Local Union 987 of Alberta Province of Alberta will be amended to provide the following:
a)	To provide for both Union and Company Trustees and that one such Company Trustee will be appointed by Alpha Milk Company.
b)	There will be no contributions by the Company to the Pension Plan for hours worked by students and part-time Employees.
Re: Contributions on behalf of part-time and summer students; the Company will make any contributions on behalf of a part-time and/or summer student as required under the Alberta Pension Act.
16:02 Dental Plan
Effective the first of the month following date of ratification or upon introduction, whichever first occurs, implement the 1993 Alberta Dental Schedule.
Adopt the 1994 and 1995 Alberta Dental schedule when introduced.
Page 21
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
16:03 Short Term Disability Plan - see Company Benefit Plan
New employees will qualify for prorated sick time benefits January 1 following their date of hire based on actual hours worked as a percentage of 2,080 hours.
16:04 Long Term Disability Plan - see Company Benefit Plan.
ARTICLE NO. 17 - INDUSTRIAL STANDARDS ACT
17:01 The Industry shall be kept under an Industrial Standards Schedule, based on the minimum of the Agreement, for the protection of all parties.
ARTICLE NO. 18 - RENEWAL INDUSTRIAL STANDARDS SCHEDULE
18:01 The Company and the Union agree to make a joint application to the Board of Industrial Relations to revise and bring up to date the Industrial Standards Schedule Dairy Industry, Calgary zone, whenever necessary by the Advisory Committee.
ARTICLE NO. 19 - DURATION. TERMINATION AND AMENDMENTS
19:01 This Agreement shall be in full force and effect as of the 1st dav of May.
_1993 and continue in full force and effect through the 30th dav of April.—„ 1996 and from year to year thereafter except as hereinafter provided.
19:02 Either party may terminate this Agreement on any anniversary date, by notice in writing to the other party, not less than sixty (60) days prior to such anniversary date of this Agreement.
19:03 If amendments are desired by either party to become effective in the next ensuing year, the party proposing such amendments shall give notice in writing thereof to the other party not less than ninety (90) days before the last day of April in any year, and negotiations on such amendments shall be commenced within twenty (20) days of the receipt of said notice.
Page 22
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
SIGNED AT Calgary, Alberta, this day of , 7 A A/ £ 3_
Signed on Behalf of:
DAIRYWORLD FOODS Calgary, Alberta
Signed on Behalf of:
MISCELLANEOUS EMPLOYEES TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL 987 OF ALBERTA Calgary, Alberta
Page 23
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
APPENDIX "A"
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
SECTION 1	RATES PER HOUR
Group 1
Plant Staff
Automatic Control Panel Operator - Milk & Ice Cream Automatic CIP Operator
Group 2
A- Lab Staff (Calgary &	15.53	15.73	16.03
Medicine Hat)
B- Ice Cream Mix Maker	15.45	15.65	15.95
Ice Cream Maker Milk Receiver/Grader
Group 3
Fluid Milk Filler Operator	15.08	15.28	15.58
Ice Cream Filler Operator
Group 4
Other experienced employees
Group 5
Packagers
Group 6
Summer Relief Part Time
14.79
13.97
8.50
10.92
14.99
14.17
8.50
11.12
15.29
14.47
8.50
11.42
May U 1993 May 1, 1994 May 1, 1995
15.61	15.81	16.11
Page 24
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
Note:	Part-time employees who are utilized in Groups 1,2 or 3 will be paid the
applicable rates on a progression basis (see Section 4), based on 2,080 hours worked equals one year.
Other:	The following other “skilled” rates apply to the Medicine Hat Cheese
Factory and Calgary Cheese Packaging Plant.
Cheese Maker	16.71	16.91	17.21
Ass't Cheesemaker	15.18	15.38	15.68
Packaging Machine	Operator	15.08	15.28	15.58
“Lead Hand” designated by the Company will be paid $1.00 per hour over and above his rate.
SECTION 2	RATES PER HOUR
May L 1993 May L 1994 May L 1995
Mechanical & Dock
Truck Mechanic (With Papers)*
over 6 months
Truck Mechanic (With Papers)* First 6 months
Apprentice Mechanic Over*
4 years
Apprentice Mechanic *
3 to 4 years
Apprentice Mechanic *
2 to 3 years
Apprentice Mechanic*
1 to 2 years
Garage Serviceman
17.24	17.44	17.74
16.59	16.79	17.09
15.38	15.58	15.88
15.33	15.53	15.83
15.25	15.45	15.75
15.24	15.44	15.74
15.07	15.27	15.57
Page 25
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
Garage Staff	14.84	15.04	15.34
Maintenance Man & 4th Class	15.92	16.12	16.42
Engineer
* Will also apply to “truck refrigeration mechanic”
Note 1 A “Special Skilled Rate” of $2.00 per hour above the plant maintenance may be granted. There shall be a semi-annual review made by a joint committee consisting of the Branch manager, Department Supervisors and Shop Steward. While the company maintains the right to determine the number of “special skilled” personnel at each location, initially four (4) individuals will be so designated in Calgary and two (2) in Lethbridge.
Note 2 - Garage and plant mechanics required to provide their own tools will receive a $1 00.00/year tool allowance.
SECTION 3	RATES PER HOUR
May L 1993 May 1, 1994 May 1, 1995
Wholesale Driver (including ice cream)	16.50
Note: All new Wholesale Drivers hired after June 24,1993 will be hired at the Dock Driver rate.
Wholesale Foreman	17.50
Note: All Wholesale Foremen appointed after June 24,1993 will be paid $1.00 per hour above the Dock Driver rate.
Dock Driver	15.07
Tractor/Trailer Driver	15.57
Stettler (Working Supervisor)	17.20
16.70
17.70
15.27
15.77
17.40
17.00
18.00
15.57
16.07
17.70
Page 26
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
SECTION 4
The following wage progression rates shall apply to new employees except for Maintenance, Mechanics, Cheesemakers, Assistant Cheesemaker.
$2.00 per hour less than the scheduled rate during the first year.
$1.00 per hour less than the scheduled rate during the second year.
Page 27
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE; HEAD SHIPPER, HEAD MILK STORAGE MAN AND HEAD CHECK-IN
It is the company’s intention to eliminate the following classifications:
Head Shipper
Head Shipper (Red Deer & Edmonton)
Head Milk Storage Man Head Check In
Any employee who is currently paid in one of these classifications will be grandfathered, ie. retain their current rate including wage adjustments, until such time as they successfully bid on or are recalled to another job, at which time they will receive the applicable rate for the new job.
$15.45
$16.45
$15.08
$15.08
Page 28
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: WHOLESALE ROUTES
All new wholesale drivers are to receive the dock rate.
With the exception of foremen and trailer drivers, all new drivers regardless of whether they replace drivers on days off or holidays, make dock deliveries or service wholesale accounts, shall receive the dock rate of pay.
All current wholesale drivers (commissioned and non commissioned) will be grandfathered at the wholesale (non commissioned) rate of $16.50 plus the general wage increase. All current foremen will be grandfathered at the rate of $17.50 plus the general wage increase. All current drivers shall retain their current rate including wage adjustments until such time as they successfully bid on or are recalled to another job, at which time they will receive the applicable rate for the new job.
Tractor/trailer drivers will remain at the rate of $15.57 plus the general wage increase.
Page 29
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: HEALTH & WELFARE - STD & LTD
A joint committee will be formed, comprised of up to six (6) members - three (3) members nominated by the company and three (3) members nominated by the union. The committee will be named as expeditiously as possible following the ratification of the collective agreement. The committee will appoint two (2) co-chairmen who will schedule committee meetings as appropriate. The terms of reference of this committee will be as follows:
a)	Review and recommend a revised process such that the processing of claims are facilitated to ensure the payment of claims on a timely basis.
b)	Recommend an adjudication process involving all interested parties to review unsatisfied claims.
c)	Review, including an assessment of the carrier and make recommendations re the STD and LTD premiums and benefits with the intent of maximizing the overall cost/benefit.
The committee will endeavor to make then recommendations to management by year end 1993.
Page 30
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: COST OF ABSENTEEISM
The Company has serious concerns as it relates to the cost of absenteeism abuse and control.
It is the intent of the Company over time to institute plans and programs directed towards the improved management of this concern area.
Page 31
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE; ALTERNATE WORK ARRANGEMENTS WHOLESALE & DOCK DRIVERS
1.	Pursuant to Article 8, the parties acknowledge that “alternate work arrangements” may be necessary in order to ensure the efficient scheduling and operation of the wholesale and dock delivery departments and to satisfy customer requirements.
2.	In support of this understanding, alternate work arrangements other than those designated in Clause 8:02 (eg. 12 hours per day) may be utilized.
3.	In all cases the company will schedule and endeavour to maintain routes with an average of 40 hours of work per week over each pay period or work cycle (3 weeks). However, in recognition of daily, weekly, and seasonal fluctuations in volume and time requirements, drivers will be paid for actual time worked.
4.	It is understood that under alternate work arrangements, overtime would only be paid if the hours worked exceed the daily schedule or the total hours worked exceed the scheduled hours in a specific period (eg. pay period or work cycle).
5.	A minimum of two consecutive days off per week will be scheduled.
Page 32
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: ALBERTA HEALTH CARE
Effective the first day of the month following ratification, the Company will pay the full cost of Alberta Health Care.
Page 33
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE; HOME SERVICE
The Collective Agreement as it applies to Home Service personnel will be modified as follows:
1.	Commission shall be the sole basis of remuneration for sales to Homes Service and designate Wholesale accounts. Products sold will be converted to a unit basis. The Unit Compensation Rate shall be as follows:
Home Service Sales Per Unit
Effective May 1, 1993
13.6 cents
Effective May 1, 1994
13.75 cents
Effective May 1. 1995
14.00 cents
Wholesale Sales Per Unit
6.8 cents
6.85 cents	6.95 cents
The Schedule of Units Structure {commission) is attached hereto. Note: Butter is an exception and is paid at a rate of 50 per unit.
2.	Benefit Program Vacations
An Employee shall receive as compensation two percent (2%) of his previous year’s gross earnings for each week entitlement. (Gross earnings will include vacation and statutory holiday pay).
Page 34
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
Statutory Holidays. Sick Leave. Jury Duty, Compassionate Leave
The following rates shall apply when making calculations relative to the above.
Effective	Effective	Effective
May 1. 1993	May 1, 1994	May 1, 1995
Home Service Driver
(Including Route Builders) $14.45/hr	$14.65/hr	$14.95/hr
Route Foreman
$17.95/hr	$18.15/hr	$18.45/hr
Note:	An Employee may elect to be paid in lieu of vacation for any complete
week(s) of vacation in excess of two (2) weeks of his entitlement. The Employee will also be paid the appropriate commission during periods worked as a result of such election.
If an Employee works on a statutory holiday, the Employee shall receive the appropriate commission earned in addition to pay provided herein. Article 11:02 will not apply.
Pension
The Company shall make pension contributions to the union in the amount of eight dollars ($8.00) for each full day completed with a maximum of thirty two dollars ($32.00) per week. Effective May 1, 1992 increase to a maximum of thirty four dollars ($34.00) per week.
3.	It is understood and agreed that the payment of such commission is predicated on a Home Service Salesman’s route being completed daily and/or weekly within the maximum hours permitted under the Alberta Labour Standards Act. In the event a claim is made for payment of overtime, then the route will be revised to eliminate the overtime and any overtime payments will be deducted from the commissions earned.
4a. New Employees and trainees shall be paid at the rate of nine dollars ($9.00) per hour (maximum of forty (40) hours per week). Such rate will prevail until the Employee, in the opinion of the Company, is capable of handling the route, at which time commission will prevail.
Page 35
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
4b. A Route Builder shall be paid at the rate of nine dollars ($9.00) per hour plus commission. This rate becomes $9.20 effective May 1, 1994 and $9.50 effective May 1, 1995.
5.	Route Foremen shall be covered by this memorandum, and will be paid at the rate of three dollars and twenty-five cents ($3.25) per hour (maximum of forty (40) hours per week), plus average commission earned. Effective May 1, 1992 this shall be increased to $3.50 per hour.
6.	The Company may utilize route Relief Drivers to relieve on Home Service routes because of excess absenteeism and illness, unforeseen emergencies, etc., that cannot be covered by Route Foremen and under Article 15 of the Collective Agreement. Such Route Relief Drivers will be paid twelve dollars and fifty cents ($12.50) per hour and no commission will apply.
7.	Commencing November 1, 1988, Home Service Drivers receiving additional customers as a result of a route split or consolidation, will compensate the Company in an amount of five dollars ($5.00) per customer. A customer for purposes of this section is defined as a call purchasing in excess of four (4) units per week. Compensation by the Drivers will be spread over a six (6) month period.
8.	Article 8 - Hours of Work will not apply for Home Service except as provided under Section 3 herein.
9.	Article 10 - Annual Vacations will apply except as superseded by Section 2 herein.
10. Article 11 - Paid Holidays will apply except as superseded by Section 2 herein.
11.	Article 14:06 fd) will not apply.
12.	Wages and Commissions are described in this Memorandum. Reference in
Appendices “A” and "B" are, therefore, deleted.
13.	The job posting provision under Article 7 will apply except, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a driver will be permitted only one (1) promotion in any twelve (12) month period. Likewise, the second sentence of Article 7:04 (b) will not apply.
Page 36
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
14.	The Company will continue the past practice of subsidizing home service
commissions by .02 cents per unit during periods 8 and 9 (eg. July 18 to September 11, 1993 inclusive).
15.	As part of its effort to secure the ongoing viability of home service in a declining market segment, the company is considering the implementation of a new route accounting system (scanner). This system would allow drivers to scan products delivered to a customer and would replace the current manual route book accounting system.
As part of the feasibility review and implementation requirements, the provisions contained in Clause 14:06a and Section 14 of the Letter of Understanding Re: Home Service, may be utilized.
The general wage increase applies to the ROUTE BUILDER rate of $9.00 and the regular hourly rate shall apply for the purpose of applying benefits.
16.	It is understood and agreed that in consideration of the adoption of the Commission Payment Basis to Home Service, the Company agrees it will not switch to jobbers on any route (not presently handled by a jobber) in the metropolitan areas of Calgary and Lethbridge during the term of the Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing commitment, it is understood and agreed that if the Company deems the practice for Home Service compensation as contained herein unsatisfactory, it may upon notice provided under Article 18 of the Collective Agreement, at any anniversary date of the Collective Agreement, notify the Union that it wishes to open the matter for Collective Bargaining. It is further understood and agreed that under no circumstances may any other matter be brought up for negotiations under this provision.
Page 37
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
COMMISSIONS
tAt TINTT STRUCTURE - HOME SERVICE
1. Fluid Milk & Cream
1 - Litre Milk (Any Type)
1 - Litre Cereal Cream 1 - Carton/Bag (160) Creamers/Milkers 1 - Litre Whipping Cream
One Unit Two Units Two Units Four Units
2. Feature Products
1 - Litre Egg Nog/Cordial
1 - Carton/Bag (160) Koffee Kreamers
1 - 225g Dairyworld Aerosol Whip
1 - 400g Dairyworld Aerosol Whip
1 - Litre Mix (Ice Cream, Milkshake, Yogourt)
Two Units Two Units One Unit Two Units Two Units
Fruit Drink/Juice
1 - Litre	One Unit
Cultured Products 1 - Kg Cottage Cheese 1 - Kg Yogourt 1 - Litre Yop 1 - Litre Sour Cream
Four Units Four Units Four Units Four Units
Cheese
1 - Kg Cheddar, Processed & Other	Two Units
Butter/Butter Oil/Margarine
1 - Kg	Two Units
3. Tce Cream
1 - Litre	One Unit
4.	Novelties
1 - Dozen	One Unit
5.	Honey
1 - Kg	Four	Units
6.	Skim Milk Powder
1 - Kg	One Unit
(1)
(2)
(2)
(4)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(4)
(4)
(4)
(4)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(1)
(4)
(1)
Page 38