ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES
AGREEWJ2SHL_________
EFF, J ■	]
term. j
no', "or f FMPLOYfFS j
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION No. 464
Vancouver, B.C.
O04C6
INDEX
CLAUSE
1	UNION SECURITY
2	UNION ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES
3	UNION NOTICES
4	DEDUCTION OF DUES, ETC.
5	SHOP STEWARDS
6	CONFLICTING AGREEMENT
7	CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT
a GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 9 DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES
10	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
11	WELFARE PLAN
12	COMPENSATION COVERAGE
13	PAY DAYS
14	PAY STATEMENTS
15	POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS
16	NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
17	LOSS OF WAGES
18	NEW EMPLOYEES
19	SENIORITY-REDUCTION OF STAFF-SEVERANCE PAY
20	MINIMUM PAY
21	EATING AND REST PERIOD
22	ANNUAL HOLIDAYS
23	STATUTO RY HOLI DAYS
24	DAYS AND HOURS CF WORK AND OVERTIME- INSIDE AND DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER SALESMEN)
25	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
26	UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT
27	WORK CLOTHES
28	JURY DUTY
PAGE
2
3
3
3
4
4
5 5
a
9
15
15
16
16
20
20
21
21
26
26
27
30
32
34
35
35
36
O) O i— CM CO	Tt in to h- CO
CM CO CO CO CO	CO CO CO CO CO
INDEX (continued)
CLAUSE
PAGE
PERIOD OF SUMMER SEASON CREDIT ON ROUTES KEEPING PROPER RECORDS PERFORMANCE OF DUN DAYS AND HOURSOF WORK, OVERTIME, TIME OFF AND SPLIT ROUTES DELIVERIES BY SPECIALS WAGES UNIT VALUES
EXPIRATIONOF AGREEMENT SAVINGS CLAUSE WAGE SCHEDULES"A", 'B', "C", ”D' AND "E"
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING APPENDIX "A"
37
37
38 38
39
42
42
43
44
46
53
56
ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this day of , 1989.
BETWEEN:
ISIAND FARMS DAIRIES CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
P.O. Box 38 VICTORIA, B.C.
V8W 2 Ml
(hereinafter referred to as the "Employer")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION No. 464, of the City of Vancouver, Province of British Columbia, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America.
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
CF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH THAT the Parties hereto agree as follows:
1
CLAUSE 1 UNION SECURITY
1.01	All employees covered by this Agreement must become members of the Union within fourteen (14) calendar days of their commencing their employment hereunder. The Employer agrees to retain in his employ, within the group covered by this Agreement, only members of the Union in good standing and to notify the Union within ten (10) days of any new employees hired or former employees returned to the payroll.
1.02	It is further agreed: That any person not a member of the Union shall notworkatoccupationswhichcome under the Union's jurisdiction, except in cases of emergency and then only until a member of the Union can be placed on the job. Where this provision operatesagainstthe efficiency of the Plant,the Union undertakestoconsiderexemptioninany particularcase put before it. Inthe eventof failureto reach agreement, the matterwill besubmittedto Arbitration under the provisions of Clause 8, Section 8.02.
1.03	That the Union's jurisdiction shall be deemed to include the processing, manufacture, sale and/or distribution of dairy products or such other productsas the Employer may from time to time process, manufacture, sell and/or distribute.
1.04	This Agreement shallcoverall employees engaged in work coming within the Union's jurisdiction and whether employed at the Employer's address set forth above or employed elsewhereinthe Provinceof BritishColumbiaand there engaged in the sale or distribution of dairy or other products shipped or forwarded from the aforesaid places.
1.05	The selling and distribution of dairy products being recognized as work coming within the Union's jurisdiction such work must be performed by an employee of the
2
Company whose products are being sold or distributed provided that selling and distribution may be carried on by such persons other than employeeswho were on October 1st, 1965 carrying on such selling or distribution. Section
1.04	shall not be deemed to include sales representatives who are not employed in distribution or delivery.
1.06	Personnelabove Route Foremanor Assistant Plant Foreman shall not be required to be members of the Union unless working within the Union's jurisdiction.
CLAUSE 2
UNION ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES
2.01	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for upholding the Union's principles. No employee who serves on a committee shall lose his or her position nor be discriminated against for that reason. The Employer shallallowtimeoffworktoany manorwomanwhois serving on a committee or as a delegate, provided that all requests for time off are reasonableor do not interferewith the proper operation of the plantsor routes, and providedthat requests for such time off are made by Officers of the Union.
CLAUSE3 UNION NOTICES
3.01	The Company agrees to provide space which is readily accessible for the Union notices of direct interest to the employees.
CLAUSE4
DEDUCTION OF DUES, ETC.
4.01	Each of the employees covered by this Agreement
hereby authorizes the Employerto deduct and pay over to the Secretary of the Union, any monthly dues, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's Bylaws, owing by himorherhereunderto the said Union, or as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the member-
3
ship of the Union. Monies shall be deducted inaccordance with the written statement supplied induplicateby the Union which shall show the total amount owing by each employee and the names of the employees for whom the deductions are to be made. Deductions of any monies owing shall also be made from employees in the month in which they terminate. Monies deducted shall be forwarded by the Employerto the Secretary- Treasurer of the Union not later than the 10th day of the following month and shall be accompanied by a copy of the written statement supplied by the Union.
CLAUSE 5 SHOP STEWARDS
5.01	There shall be a Shop Steward at each operation covered by this Agreement, if the Union so desires, to see whether the members of the Union and the Employer live up to the provisions of this Agreement and to report any infractions of such provisions and rules to the Superintendent or Foreman, who shall promptly deal with same. Such Shop Steward shall be elected by the Union membersinthe shop concerned failing which a Shop Steward may be appointed by the Union, and shall be an employee of the place in which he is a Steward. There shall be nondiscrimination against the Shop Steward for Union activities.
5.02	The Shop Steward shall have no authority to alter, amend, violate or otherwise change any part of this Agreement. The Shop Steward shall report to the Union Officers any violation of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 6
CONFLICTING AGREEMENT
6.01	It is further agreed by the Employer that no Union memberwill be askedto make any written or verbal agreement conflicting with this Agreement. No Union member shall make any written or verbal agreement with the Employer conflicting with this Agreement.
4
CLAUSE7
CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT
7.01	The Employer shall not require any member of the Union to cross a picket line which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction. The Employer shall not require any member of the Union to accept any product or goods from any person, or employees of any person,with whom the Union, Local No.464, hasapioketor placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction, around or against, or to deliver any product or goods to any person or employees of any person with whom the Union, Local No.464, hasa picketor placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction, around or against.
7.02	Itshall not be a violation of this Agree mentor cause for dismissal for an employee to refuse to handle, receive, ship or transport any materials or equipment affected by a labour dispute which has not been declared illegal by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction.
CLAUSE8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	Any alleged violation of this Agreement must be submitted to the Employer as a written grievance within thirty (30) calendar days of the alleged violation or, be con-sideredinvalid unless, uponevidenceofextenuating circumstances, grievance procedure is authorized by the Executive Board of the Union.
Disputesor differences concerningthe interpretation,appli-cation, operationor alleged violationof this Agreement shall be subject to the above time limit and shall be resolved according to the following procedure.
(a)	Theemployeeorthe Uniontogetherwithsuch person orpersonsasheorthe Unionmaywish, shalltakethe matter up with the Employer.
5
(b)	Should a solution not be reached by step (a) then an Officer or Officers of the Union, accompanied by the employee, if he or they so wish, shalldiscuss the matter with the Employer. If a solution is reached, this shall be final.
8.02	Ifthe procedures set forth in Section8.01 (a) and
(b)	above do not result in a solution being reachedwithin seven days of the first discussion between an Officer of the Union and a Representativeof the Employer, or within such further period as the Employer and the Union agree to in writing, the dispute shall be referred to an Arbitration Board of three persons appointed as follows:
(a)	The Party desiring arbitration shall appoint a member forthe Boardandshallnotifytheotherparty in writing of the name and address of the person so appointed and particulars of the matter in dispute.
(b)	The Party receiving the notice shall within five (5) days thereafterappointa memberforthe Boardand notify the other Party of its appointment.
(c)	The two Arbitrators soappointedshallconferto select a third person to be Chairman and failing for three days from the appointment of the second of them to agree upona person willing to act, either of them may apply to the Honourable, The Minister of Labour, to appoint such third member.
8.03	The Arbitration Board shall sit, hear the Parties, settle the terms of the question to be arbitratedand make its awardwithinten (10)daysfrom thedateof theappointment of the Chairman, provided the time may be extended by agreement of the parties.
The Arbitration Board shall have the power to determine
6
whether a particular issue is arbitrable under this Agree ment.
A majority award shall be the awardof the Board.
8.04	If the Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure it is found) that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, that employee shallbere-instatedby the Company without loss of pay and with all his rights, benefits and privileges which he would have enjoyed if the suspension or discharge had not taken place, or if an Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure it is found) thatan ex-employee should have been re-hired that ex-employee shall be employed by the Employerand paid all pay which he would have enjoyed and accorded all the rights, privileges and benefitswhich he would have enjoyed if he had been hiredatthe proper time, provided that, If it is shown to thsBoardthatthe employee has been in receipt of wages during fhe period between discharge and/or suspension and re-instatementordate of failure to re-hire and re-hiring, theamountso receivedshall be deducted from wages payable by the Employer pursuant to this Clause, less any expenseswhich (he employee has incurredin orderto earn the wages so deducted, AN D PROVIDED THAT the Arbitration Board, ifdrcumstancesareestablished before it, which, in the opinion of the Arbitration Board, makes it just and equitable to do so, shall have the authority to order the Employer to pay less than the full amount of wages lost.
8.05	If the award of the Arbitration Board is subsequently set aside by a Court of Competent Jurisdictionthe question shall, at the request of either Party, be submitted to anotherArbitration Boardappointedpursuantto andwith all the powers provided in this Clause.
8.08 The expensesand remuneration of the Chairman shall be paid by the Partiesin equal shares.
8,07	Without restricting the specific powersherein before mentioned the Arbitration Board shall have all the general powers of an Arbitration Board.
CLAUSE9
DISCHARGEOF EMPLOYEES
9.01	Except for lay-offs pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agreement, no employee shall bedischargedotherthan for proper cause.
9.02	The Employer reserves the right to discharge any employee, without notice, for any of the following causes:
1.	Dishonesty
2.	Drunkenness
3.	Refusal to obey a lawful order
4.	Absence without leave
5.	Drinking intoxicating liquorswhile on duty
6.	Permitting unauthorized persons on vehicles provided “no riders” stickers are on vehicles.
7.	Willful abuse of sick leave privileges
8.	Impairmentdue to the improper use of drugs
9.	Willful abuse of Company equipment
9.03	Any discharged employee may, within 72 hours of his discharge, in writing, require the Employer to give to him the reasons for his discharge and the Employer will give such reasons to him, in writing within 72 hours of such request, and in the event of any dispute or difference as to whether or not there was proper cause for the discharge of an employee only the reasons so set forth in writing shall constitute cause.
9.04	If an employee is discharged or suspendedfor any reasonwhatsoeverandfeels that he hasbeen unjustly dealt with, or, if an employee, laidoff pursuantto Clausel 9 of this Agreement is not re-hired and feels that he should have been re-hired, the dispute shall constitute a grievanceto be settled pursuantto the provisionsof Clause8 hereof, provided that the grievance shall be launched within fourteen (14) calendar days of the discharge or suspension.
9.05	The nature of a suspension, length of a suspension, and the date cf implementation of a suspension shall
8
be provided to an employee in writing and the Union shall be so notified immediately.
CLAUSE 10
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
10.01	The Employer shall have the exclusive right and power to manage the business and direct the working forces, including the right to hire; suspend for cause; discharge for cause; lay off; promote; assign to jobs; transfer employees from department to department; to increase or decrease the working force; to determine the productsto be handled.
10.02	Nothing inthis Agreement shall be intendedor is to be construed in any way to interfere with the recognized right of the Employerto manage and control the business. It is further agreed that nothing inthis Clause shall be used to discriminate against any employee of the Union, its members or its Executive.
10.03	Nothing i n any of the provisions of this Clause shall in any way limit, void or affect the other provisions of this Agreement.
CLAUSE11
WELFARE PLAN AND PENSION PLAN
11.01	Effective the first day of the month following ninety
(90) days employment the Employer shall continue to provide a Welfare Plan for all employees covered by this Agreement (excluding those listed hereunder) with the following benefits:
(a)	Life Insurance in the sum of $30,000.00 upon death from any cause whatever.
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment in the principal sum of $30,000.00 both occupational and non-oc-cuptional coverage.
9
i.	In the event of death by accident, the principal sumwill be paidinadditionto the Life Insurance benefit in (a).
ii.	Inthe eventof dismembermentorlossof sight due to accident, the following amounts will be paid:
1.
2.
3,
4.
5.
6. 7.
Both hands or feet Sight of both eyes One hand and one foot One hand and the sight of one eye
One foot and the sight of one eye Sight of one eye One hand or one foot
The Principal Sum The Principal Sum The Principal Sum
The Principal Sum
The Principal Sum Half the PrincipalSum Half the PrincipalSum
(c)	The following schedule of additional life insurance shall apply to all employees with dependents upon death of the employee.
First dependent	$30,000.00
Each additional dependent	7,500.00
(d)	Sick benefit in the sum of 65% of the employee's gross weekly base rate for a period of fifly-two (52) weeks to become effective on the first (1st) day in the event of a non-compensable accident and on the fourth (4th) day of any sickness.
In addition, any employee with over seven (7)years seniority that is on Weekly Indemnity may, at his option, make up his benefit to full salary by using accumulatedsick days to the maximum payable as per Clause 11.03 (c).
To apply for sick benefit an employee must obtain the appropriate Sick Benefit application forms from the Employer.
10
On presentation of a receipt from the Physician, an employeeshallbe reimbursed up to ten dollars ($10.00) for each physician's statement completed in any sickness or accident period.
(e)	Medical coverage and benefits equivalent to those provided by the Medical Services Plan cf B.C.
(f)	Extended Health Benefits Plan equivalent to the coverage provided by the Medical Services Association of B.C.
Additional coverage of $1,000,000.00 inout-of-prov-ince Medical Coverage.
(g)	A Dental Plan providing the following coverage:
-100% payment for Plan A (Basic Services)
-75% payment of claims for Plan B (Prosthetic appliances, crown and bridge procedures).
-50% payment of claims for PlanC (Orthodontics)to a maximum of $1,500.00 per life.
(h)	A LongTerm Disability Plan providing a benefitoffifty (50) percent of an employee's weekly base rate to commence afterweekly indemnity ceases, payableto age 65. This benefit to be reduced by any amount payable by the Canada Pension Disability Plan. Provisions of LTD plan to include eligibility if employee is unableto perform duties of his/her own occupationfor a period of two years and/or the Employeris unableto provide a suitablejob to the disabled employee. After two (2) years, the employee must be unable to perform the normal duties of any occupation.
(j) An Optical Plan to provide $150.00 of coverage for each two year period applicable to each eligible person.
11
11.02	Thecostofthe benefitscontainedin Clause 11.01
shall be borne 100% by the Employer.
11.03	Sick Leave
Commencingon the first of the month following completion of the probationaryperiod (Per Clause 19.01
(a)) all employeesshall accumulate paid sick leaveat the rate of one-half (1/2) day per month for each month wages are earned. For the purpose of this Clause, wages shall include Weekly Indemnity and Workers' CompensationBenefits.Accumulationwhile drawing such benefitsshall be limitedto one (1) year.
Employees who accumulate sick leave in excess of thirty (30) days shall receive such excessdays accu-mulatedinthecontractyearastimeoff in the following contract year at a mutually agreeable time at their regular rate of pay.
An employee may request by October31st following the end of each contract year that he receive these excess days in cash rather than time off and such request shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Employer. The basis of refusal shall be when such requestwill unduly effect the efficient operation of the business.
Employeesoverage60 may, at their option, accumulate these sick days indefinitely, with the days in excess of 30 being accumulated at the rate of pay in effect when the days are earned.
(b)	Where any absence, occasionedby sicknessor accident is not covered for payment by either the Sick Benefit (11.01 (c) of this Clause) or Compensation employees shall draw on time so accumulated in the following manner:
12
First day of absence - One Half (1/2) day's pay Second day of absence - One full day's pay Third day of absence - One full day's pay
thereafter, the balance of accumulatedSick Leave to be applied and paid at the full daily rate for each day the employee's absence exceeds fifty (52)weeks and is notcovered by the Sick Benefit. Employeewith an existing accumulated balance of 30 days and over shall receive full pay on the first day of absence.
On retirement or voluntary termination an employee having completed:
-	7 years of service will receive33% of accumulated sick days owing.
-	14 yearsof service will receive66% of accumulated sick daysowing.
-	18 years of service will receive 100% of accumulated sick days owing.
11.04	Funeral Leave
Intheeventof death in theimmediate family of an employee, the Company shall grant up to three (3) working days leave of absence with pay when such leave is necessary in order to make arrangementsfor and/or to attend the funeral. The term "immediate family" shall mean spouse (including common-law spouse providing he or she is registered as a dependant under Clause 11), parents, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, grandchildren, mother-in-law and father-in-law.
It is understood funeral leave is payable only for working time lost.
11.05	Leave of Absence
An employee may request a leave cf absence and such permission shall not be unreasonablywithheld.
13
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(c)
The basis of refusal shall be when such leave will unduly affect the efficient operation of the business.
Leave of absence must be requested in writing stating the purpose of the leave.
If such leave of absence is used for purposes other than those for which it is granted, it shall be cause for dismissal.
11.06	Pension
The Employersshallcontinuetoparticipateinthe operation of the Teamsters Local 464 Dairy Industry Pension Plan in accordance with Appendix "A" attached heretowhich shall form part of this Agreement.
11.07
(a)	When an employee goes off work ill or on compensation or grievance procedure is invoked on his discharge, the Company shall continue to pay both his welfare fees and Union dues so that all times the employee shall be protected to the utmost.
(b) To provide payment for the above mentionedwelfare benefits, an employee must leave sufficient funds with the Employer or pay, or have paidon his behalf, in advance, the monthly payments direct to the Employer.
(c)	Forthe purpose of this Clause only, any employee off ill cr on compensation shall be deemed to be on the payroll.
(d)	All working time lost by an employee due to completing driver's tests or doctor's examinations shall, provided such test or examinations are required by his Employer, be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee.
14
11.08	Exclusions
(a)	Employees (Summer Help per Clause 29) whose term of employment does not exceed the period April 1st to September 15th inclusive.
(b)	Part-time employees (per Clause 19.01 (b)) who do not work morethan fifty percent (50%) cf the standard work week for their job classification.
These employees shall be excluded from the provisions of Clause 11 Welfare Plan.
CLAUSE 12
COMPENSATION COVERAGE
12.01	When employeeson compensationare directed by the Compensation Board or their physician that they may return to work, they shall be returned to their previous job and rate of pay for a period of two (2) weeks to see if they are capable of performing the job held at the time of injury, and if so, they shall be kept on the payroll.
In the event the previousjob no longer exists, the employee shall be given a job of comparable nature subject to the provisions of Clause 19.
CLAUSE 13 PAY DAYS
13.01	Employees shall be paid every second week. Pay day shall be Friday. The amount paid shall include all sums owing by way of wages earned up to and including the Saturday previous save for commissions which shall be computed on a four week period. Any exception to this will be covered by a Letter of Understanding.
13.02	When pay day falls on a Statutory Holiday or an employee’s days off, such employee shall havethe privilege of drawing his pay cheque the previous bank day.
15
CLAUSE 14 PAY STATEMENTS
14.01
(a)	All Plant employees and non-commissioneddrivers will be given a statementwitheach pay cheque showing overtime, if any, and rate of pay; how the amount is computed, including deductions, if any; and all Retail DriverSalesmenwillbegivenastatement once each period showing the numberof units sold, retail, wholesale, plus extras, etc. how the amount is computed including deductions, if any.
Hoursof overtimeworked and the value of such overtime will be shown on the interim cheque and paid on the final cheque of each period.
(b)	Accumulated sick leave, daysoff, and Statutory Holidays owing shall be shown by posting a list each month at the applicable Plants and Depots.
CLAUSE 15
POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS
15.01	Routes
(a)	All new routes, vacant routes and positions shall be immediately postedon the bulletinboardsfora period of ninety-six (96) hours excluding Sundays with details of earnings, units, hours of work, days off, and any other pertinent information. There shall be no changes in requirementsof postedvacancies during time of posting.
(b)	Any employeedesiringthe newroute, vacant route or positionshall makeapplicationinwritingtothe necessary Manager within the periodof posting. There will bea trial periodnotto exceed three (3) workingweeks during which the employee and/or the Employercan determine if the successful applicant is suitable, failing which the applicant will revert to his former route
16
or position. The trial period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Parties. Any such agreement for extension shall be put in writing with a copy sent to the Union.
(c)	Unsuccessful applicants under (b) above shall be considered in the filling of any routeor position arising out of the original vacancy.
(d) Applications for vacant routes shall not beentertained if the applicant has applied for and been given a vacant route within the last twelve (12) months.
In the event that no suitable applicant is available and the position can not be filled from within the department, then Clause 15.01 (d) will be waived.
(e)	There shall be only one posting created by a Route vacancyprovidedthatany vacancy of a Relief Driver's, Holiday Relief or Route Foreman's position shall be posted.
(f)	If a higher classification of driver's license is required for any driving job due to vehicle change or replacement, the cost of obtaining the license shall be borne by the Employer. The choice of any course required shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
15.02	Inside
(a) All vacancies or promotions shall be posted immediately for a period of ninety-six (96) hours excluding Sundays at all operations in the district concerned. Details of earnings, hours of work and days off to be on all postings.
There shall be a maximum of two (2) additional postings of vacancies resulting from the posting of the initial vacancy or promotion.
17
(b)	Any inside employee desiring the vacancy or promo-
tion shall make written applicationto the PlantSuper-intendentwithin the period of posting. There will be a trial period not to exceed three (3)working weeks during which the employee and/orthe Employercan determineifthesucessfull applicantissuitable,failing which the applicantwill revert to his former position. The trial period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Parties. Any such agreement for extension shall be putinwritingwith a copy senttothe Union.
15.03	Miscellaneous
(a)	Any man desiring to change from one branch to another in the same department may make written application to do so and all such applicationswill be considered in conjunction with those submitted as above for any vacancy which occurs inthe branch to which transfer is requested.
(b)	The filling of vacancies and promotions shall be based on the length of continuous service an employee has been on the payroll of the department concerned, other considerations such as ability and qualificationsbeing equal.
The results of all postings to be announced and the employees affected to be notified within seven (7) days. In the event a successful applicant is not assigned to the new position within fourteen (14) calendar days, the Company shall notify the Union.
If such vacancies or promotions are filled by other than the senior applicant, the Employer shall notify the Shop Steward and/or the Union within forty-eight (48) hoursand shall supply them with the names of all the applicants for the vacancy or promotion.
Upon request from the Shop Steward, unsuccessful applicants shall be notified in writing as to the reason
18
why they were not chosen for the promotion or vacancy.
(c)	If no applications are received from the department concerned,then an employee of the otherdepartment who has applied for a change shall be given consideration for the vacancy as outlined in 15.03 (b).
(d)	In determining vacancies and promotions, seniority shall be on a departmental and sub-departmental basis, as follows:
1.	Production Department
To i ncludeallemployeeson the productionpay-
rolls.
Sub-departments:
(i)	Tank Truck and Farm Pick-up Drivers
(ii)	Checkers
(iii)	Plant Staff
2.	Sales Department
to include all sales department employees.
(e)	Thetime limitforpostingofvacanciesandpromotions may be lowered in casesof extreme emergencies and only with the consent of the Union.
(f)	New routes, vacant routes or positionsshall be those which are vacant for any reason whatsoever, and must be posted. Applicants already on the payroll shall be given the new route, vacant route or position before new employeesare hired. Employees on days off or holidays shall be notified of vacancies by the Employer provided the employee, in writing, has requested a change. Employees who are Summer Help or who have not completed the 52 shift probation period are not eligible to apply for new routes or vacant routes or positions.
19
(g)	Any vacancy that has occurred because of sickness or accident shall be consideredtemporary (and shall be filled in accordance with the provisionsof Clause
24.04	provided re-training is not necessary) until such time as medical evidence indicates the employee will not be returning to his former job or position.
(h)	The Employershall poston the bulletin boards at all operations on April 1st and Octoberlst of each year a list of all employees in the bargaining unit with their date of commencement of employment and their current classification. A copy of such list or lists shall be given to the Union.
CLAUSE 16
NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
16.01	The Employer shall negotiate with the Union, the establishment of and the rate of wages to be paid for any classificationofworkotherthanthose setforth in Schedules
“C", “D" and "E".
16.02	In the event that the Employer and the Union can not reach agreement concerning any proposedclassifica-tion of work either Party may invokethe Grievance Procedure set forth in Clause 8, of this Agreement. The rate established by mutual agreement or Arbitration shall be retroactive to the day the employee was assigned to such position.
CLAUSE 17
LOSS OF WAGES
17.01	Noemployeeshall suffer a reductionof earnings or
rate of earnings becauseof the adoptionof this Agreement. For the purposes of this Clause, earnings shall not be deemed to include overtime earnings.
20
CLAUSE18 NEW EMPLOYEES
18.01	New, inexperienced employees (excluding Summer Help) shall receivetwenty-five percent (25%) less than the rate provided herein, for the first one hundred and four (104) working shifts and twelve percent (12%) less than the rate providedhereinforthenextone hundredandfour (104) working shifts; full scale thereafter. This shall include parttime employees.
18.02	Experienced employees who terminate their employment with one Employercovered by Local464, then go toworkforanotherEmployer(inthesamecapacity)shallbe considered experienced and paid as such, provided the employee is not absent from the trade for a periodexceed-ing six (6) months.
CLAUSE 19
SENIORITY - REDUCTION OF STAFF-SEVERANCE PAY
19.01	Seniority and Reduction of Staff
(a)	A probationary periodof fifty-two (52) working shifts, to be completed within a period of one hundred and eighty-three (183) consecutive calendar days, shall apply in the case of each new employee, duringwhich time seniority shall not apply, and an employee may be laid off without reference to seniority and the Employer shall not be obligated to rehire such employee. The probationary period shall be extended by any working shifts lost due toaccidentor illnessduringthe probationary period. Upon completion of the probationary period seniority shall date from the date of employment.
(b)	There shall be two separate seniority lists. Such lists shall be supplied to the Union by the Employer on April 1st and Octoberlst of each year and shall include all employees covered by this Agreement who have completed their probationary period.
21
The first list shall cover all employees other than parttime and Summer Help employees, and shall show the name, classification, and date of employment of each employee.
The second list shall cover all part-time employees (those employees employed for less than the standard work week for the job classification) and shall show the name and classification of each employee and the number of shifts worked for the Employer.
Should a part-time employee become full-time that employee shall be transferredto the first seniority list and a date of employmentfor the purposes of seniority shall be determined retroactively on the basis of one calendarmonthfor each 17.3 shifts accumulated.
<c) Summer Help Employees
1.	May be employed to supplement the regular workforce andprovideadditionalhelpbetween April 1 and September 15.
2.	SummerHelp employeeswill notdisplacefull-time employees.
3.	Summer Help employees shall not accrue seniority rights, nor be entitled to benefits normally grantedother employees, nor be guaranteed a minimum number of hours per week.
(d)	Wheneveritisnecessaryto reducethe numberofem-ployees for any reason whatsoever, the employees shall be consideredas laid off and will be re- hired in order of seniority, provided that the Employer may apply to the Union for its consentto waive seniority in any case where the ability and qualifications of a particularemployeeare substantially superiortothose of a more senior employee and providedfurther that such superior ability and qualificationsare necessary for the job involved.
22
The onus of establishing the matters aforesaid shall be on the Employer.
(e)	All employees shall be given fourteen (14) calendar days notice before being laid off save those whose layoff is dictated by supply, or exceptional weather conditions or suspension of an operation for an unscheduled breakdown. Employees shall give the Employer the same notice.
(f)	A reduction in staff may only be effected by the laying off of the least senioremployeein accordance with the following procedure, recognizing the following Departments:
1.	Production
2.	Sales and Distribution
Procedure for reduction of staff:
1.
(a)	Where the Employer eliminates a job process, route or position, the employee displaced shall be the least senior employee within the Depart-mentaffectedinthePlantor Branchconcerned.
(b)	The displaced employee from step 1 (a)above shall displace the least senior employee within the Plant or Branch concerned, regardless of Department.
(c)	The displaced employee from the above steps shall displace the least senior employee on an overall seniority basis regardlesscf Plantor Department.
2.	Temporary Lay-offs
A temporary general reduction of staff dictated by supply, exceptional weather conditions, or suspension of an operation due to maintenance or unsched-
23
uled breakdown shall be by seniority (as per Clause
19.01	(d)) and shall affectonly the Department in the Plant or Branch concerned.
As in sub-section(d) ofthis Clause, the Employermay apply to the Union for its consentto waive seniority andthe Union, within the terms stipulatedin sub-section (d), undertakesto consider such application.
(g)	Any employee laid off from a posted position will be affordedthe optionto waive the reduction of staff procedure and accept a lay-off from the Branch/Plant in which they were employed with the right of recall to that Branch/Plant only. This option must be completed and signed at the time of lay-off from his/her position and will provide recall to a vacant position.
Employeeslaidoff pursuantto this Clause shall retain the right to be rehired for fifty-two (52) weeks from the date of initial lay-off from permanent or part-time status providedthatthe employee shallleavewith the Employeran address andtelephone numberatwhich the employee can be served notice of rehire. The onusshallrestwith theemployeeto maintain acorrect address and telephone number. The date of initial lay-off will be advanced forward by fifty-two (52) weeks if the employee has worked a minimum of one hundredand four (104) shifts in the previousfifty(52) week period. On completion of the above shifts, this would provide renewal of the 52 week right of recall.
The option for laid-off employees to waive the reduction of staff procedure and accept a lay-off from the Branch/Plant inwhich they were employed is subject to renewal at the time that the 52 week right of recall is renewed.
Employeeswho fail to work a minimum of 104 shifts in any recall periodwill be transferredto the part-time seniority list.
24
Seniority shall not accumulate during the lay-off period. Any employee failing within seven (7) calendar days to respond to a notice of recall shall be deemed to have forfeited both the right to recall and seniority.
Where any dispute arises such dispute shall constitute a grievance and shall be settled pursuant to the provisions of Clause 8 of this Agreement.
(h)	Employeeswho leave the bargaining unit but remain in the employ of the Employer, shall have the right to re-enter the bargaining unit and retain their full Company seniority unless terminated.
19.02	Severance Pay
(a)	Severance pay shall apply to all employees.
(b)	In respect of an employee whose termination arises out of or is attributable to:
1.	The elimination of a job process, or
2.	The introduction of equipment or methods which reduces the numberof employees, provided he has two (2) years or more service, he shall be eligible for severance pay at the rate paid at the time of severance.
(c)	All employees with two (2) to five (5) years of service shall receive two (2) weeks severance pay when termination isdue to reasons outlined inthissection. Additional severance pay shall accrue at the rate of two (2) weeks of full pay for each year of service commencing with the sixth (6th) year of service but shall not exceed a total of twenty (20) weeks of full pay.
(d)	Upon termination such employee shall be placed on the re-hire list as provided for in Section 19.01 (f) of this Clause for a period of four (4) weeks. At the end
25
of four (4) weeks, theemployeesoaffectedshallhave the option of remaining on the re-hire list oraccepting severance pay
Should he elect to remain on the re-hire list, he may renew his option every fourth (4th) week but in any event, providing no suitable employment has been provided by the Employer, he must accept severance pay no later than fifty-two (52) weeks from the date of termination.
(e)	Any employee electing to take severance pay under the terms set out above shall forfeitallrightsunderthiS Agreement.
Any employee electing to retire on pension prior to normal retirementage shall not be eligible for severance pay.
(f)	Severance pay shall be paid in addition to all other sums owing to the employee.
CLAUSE 20
MINIMUM PAY
20.01	When an employee is called to work on any of his days off, he shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours' pay or pay at the overtime rates for all time worked, whichever is the greater.
CLAUSE 21
EATING AND REST PERIOD
21.01	No employees shall be worked longerthan five (5) hours withouta halfhouroff for the purposeofeatingameal.
21.02	All employees shall be entitled to a ten minute break in the forenoon and afternoon, without loss of pay.
21.03	All employees shall be entitled to a paid ten (10) minute break immediately following the standard shift if overtime in excess of one (1) additionalhour is anticipated.
26
CLAUSE 22 ANNUAL HOLIDAYS
22.01	Employees who may, because of the seasonal nature of the work, beemployed insucha manner as to be subjectto short periods of lay-off, shall accumulateworking time insuccessiveyearstowardsholidayscheduleand shall receive pro-rated holiday pay depending on the number of months worked.
12 months worked - 2 weeks holiday or 4% holiday pay 24 months worked - 3 weeks holiday or 6% holiday pay 84 months worked - 4 weeks holiday or 8% holiday pay 168 months worked-5 weeks holidayor 10% holidaypay 216 months worked-6 weeks holidayor 12% holidaypay 300 months worked - 7 weeks holidayor 14% holidaypay
22.02	All employees with one (1) year or more service shall receive two (2) weeks off with full pay or 4% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with two (2) years or more service shall receive three (3) weeks off with full pay or 6% of their annual earnings, whicheveristhegreater. All employees with seven (7) years o r more service shall receive four (4) weeks off with full pay or8%of theirannual earnings,whichever isthe greater. All employees with fourteen (14) years or more service shall receive five (5) weeks off with full pay or 10% of theirannual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with eighteen (18) years or more service shall receive six (6) weeks off with full pay or 12% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with twenty-five (25)years or more service shall receive seven (7)weeks off with full payor 14% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater, provided however, that any employee off ill, or on compensation shall be given an annual holiday credit of:
(a)	2 months if entitled to two weeks
(b)	3 months if entitled to three weeks
(c)	4 months if entitled to four weeks
(d)	5 months if entitled to five weeks
(e)	6 months if entitled to six weeks
(f)	7 months if entitled to seven weeks
27
In addition to all time worked during the year, provided further that the sum of time credited and time worked does not exceed one (1) year, and providing such employee worked for his regular Employer during some part of the year.
22.03	Two weeks of these annual holidays, unless the employees entitled to same have, on their first selection, elected to take all or any portion of their annual holidays withinthe monthsofOctoberto April inclusive, shallbegiven the employees entitled to same in the months May to September inclusive. All employees in each group shall be given the opportunity to choose their holiday dates in order of their seniority, i.e. length of service.
Annual holidays will constitute fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days off provided the days of annual holidays within the fourteen consecutive days do not exceed the employee's entitlementto holiday.
All periods of the year save for the week immediately preceding Christmas for Wholesale, shall be available for holidays and shall be posted.
22.04	All employees entitled to more than two (2) weeks holiday may select all or any portion of their holiday entitlement in one continuous period providing they take their holidays in the months October to April inclusive.
Employeestaking all their holidayswithinthe winter schedule shall indicatetheperioddesired and shallbe given same on the basis of their seniority.
Vacation schedulesforthe summer periodwill be postedby January31st andallvacationselectionsmustbecompleted by April 1st. It is the employee's responsibilityto sign upfor holidaysby this time, otherwise morejunior employees may have first choice or holidaysmay be refusedduringthis time slot.
28
22.05	Any employee requesting holidays during the months May to September inclusive shall, at their option, receivetwo(2) weeks in one continuous period. Employees entitledto five (5) weeksor more of annual holidaysrequest-ingannualholidaysduringthe months May to September inclusive may receive, at their option three (3) weeks in one continuous period. The remainderof the holidays to which such employee is entitled shall be given during the months October to April inclusive.
Vacation schedules for the winter period will be posted by June 15thand all vacation selectionsmustbecompletedby Septemberlst. Itisthe employee'sresponsibilityto sign up for holidays by this time, otherwise more junior employees may have first choice or holidays may be refusedduring this time slot.
22.06
(a)	Intheeventtheapplicationof holiday selection asout-lined above results in single weeks left open on the holiday schedule, an employee may select one of the single weeks on his or her first choice.
This selectionof one week in the summer periodshall constitute that employee'sentire first, second or third choice with any further holiday entitlement being selected from available time in order of seniority.
(b)	Should available time remain open on a holiday schedule afterall employeescovered by the schedule have made their first selection, the employees shall have the option of making additional summer period selections in order of seniority.
Theseadditionalselections, if any, shall be for one (1) weekperiodsonly and shall in noway limitthe selections in order of seniority on the winter schedule.
22.07	Vacation schedules for the summer period (the months May to September inclusive) shall be posted by
29
January 31 st and completed by April 1st of each year, and mustalso show the dateschosenby employees electing to take holidays in the months October to April inclusive. Vacation schedules for the winter period(the months October to April inclusive) shall be posted by June 15th and completed by Septemberlst of each year.
22.08	There shall not be any change of the dates of an employee's annual holidays from the date shown in the completed lists of holiday periods providedsuch change is occasioned by anything other than accident or illness, or unless such change is mutually agreeable to the Parties involved.
22.09	All employees terminating their employment shall receive 4%; 6%; 8%; 10%; 12%; or 14% of their annual earnings in lieu of holidays to which they are entitled.
CLAUSE 23
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
23.01 All employees shall receive ten (10) Government Statutory Holidays andall holidaysproclaimed by eitherthe Federal or the Provincial Government with full pay during the year, provided such holidays do not duplicate present Statutory Holidays. The Statutory Holidays shall be:
New Year's Day	Canada Day Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday	B.C. Day	Remembrance Day
Empire Day	Labour Day	Christmas Day
Boxing Day
23.02	All employees shall receive one (1) additional Statutory Holiday with full pay, to be given at a mutually agreed upon date for each employee.
This provision shall not apply to:
Employeeswhose term of employment does not exceed the probationary period (per Clause 19.01 (a)).
30
(5) Employees (Summer Help) whose term of employment does notexceed the period April 1st, to September 15th, inclusive.
23.03	Each employee shall be entitled to seven (7) days' advance notice prior to receivingStatutory Holidays. Statutory Holidays shall be given immediately prior to or following the employee's weekend days off.
Each employee shall be entitled to four (4) days advance notice prior to cancellation of Statutory Holidays. Any Statutory Holidays cancelled with less than four (4) days advance notice, provided such cancellation is occasioned by anythingotherthan accidentor illness, shallaccrueatthe rate of two (2) days for each day so cancelled.
23.04	Statutory Holidays shall not be given in advance save by mutual consentof the Employer and the employee.
23.05	Whenever possible, time off for Statutory Holidays will be given on the day of the Statutory Holiday but when this is not possible anyone required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall have the option of being paid at double time plus an accrued day off with pay or straight time plus the accrual of two (2) additional days off with pay.
This provision shall not apply to Retail DriverSalesmenwho shall be paid at the rate of straight time for working a Statutory Holiday and shall receive a day off with full pay at a later date.
No wholesale or retailroutes shall go out on Christmas Day or New Year's Day.
23.06	Any Statutory Holiday owing as of April 30th each year for the previous year shall be paid for in cash in the following pay period at the rate of double lime.
23.07	All employees shall receive all Statutory Holidays with full pay which fall while they are on the payroll save for:
31
I.	Part-time employees (per Clause 19.01 (b)) who shall receive on April 1st of each year payment of Statutory Holidays as per Clause
23.01	prorated according to the number of shifts worked in the previous twelve month period.
II.	Su mmer Help (per Clause 29) who shall receive on termination date payment of Statutory Holi-daysas perClause23.01 proratedaccordingto the number of shifts worked in the summer season.
It is agreed that should the number of Statutory Holidays be increased by the Federal or Provincial Governmentthe prorated payment will be based on the increased number.
23.08	An employee shall be entitled to a paid day off for each such Statutory Holiday even if it falls on his weekly days off or time off taken in lieu thereof or on his annual vacation.
23.09	Each permanent employee shall be entitled to a Statutory Holiday even when heor she is off through illness, quarantine, compensation or lay-off, providing he or she is not absent for a period exceeding thirty (30)working days immediately prior to the Statutory Holiday. This payment will representthe difference between compensationorsick leave and his/her regular pay for that day,
CLAUSE 24
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME - INSIDE AND DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER SALESMEN)
24.01	Nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, and based on the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour work week shall constitute a day's work. All time worked in excess of the regulardaily
32
shift of nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, shall be paid for at double time. There shall be a minimum break of eight (8) hours between shifts. There shall be no split shifts.
No employee shall be required to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week provided however:
1.	Hoursworked on days off are not included.
2.	Shifts must be completed as required.
3.	Overtimeresultingfromstartupof new equipment not included.
4.	Overtime due to inclement weather or mechanical breakdown not included.
5.	Overtime due to delays or conditions not attributable to the normal work-load not included.
24.02	All inside employeesand drivers (not DriverSales-men) shall receive Saturday-Sunday or Sunday-Monday, plus one other day off during the week or, Sunday plus any other two consecutive days off. Each week shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday.
Any non-complying schedule shall becovered by a Letterof Understanding.
24.03	A schedule of time off shall be posted so that inside employees and drivers (not DriverSalesmen) shall have at least seven (7) days advance notice of days off. Any employee required to work on any of his days off shall be paid at double time.
It is agreed and understood that for the purposes of “seven days advance notice” only, where such changes of daysoff are occasioned by sickness or accident to another employee then the seven (7)d ays notice shall not apply.
24.04
(a)	Seniority within the job classification shall be a deter-
mining factor in the shift to be worked. The Employer
33
shall retaintherightatall times toseethattherequired number of experienced employees is available on each shift to ensure proper and efficient operation.
(b) Experienced workers regularly working a nine (9) hourshiftwho aredirectedtoanothershiftbythe Employer shall be guaranteed nine (9) hours' pay.
24.05	All farm and InterplantTanker Drivers shall, upon completion of their unloadingduties, beentitledto spendthe remainder of the unloadingperiod, up to but not exceeding one-half(1/2)hour, inthelunchroom. Thisremainderperiod shall becalculatedaspartcfthe regularworkshiftin recognition of them having worked through their lunch period. Furthermore, it is understood that all breaks other than lunch are deemed to be taken en-route.
CLAUSE 25 SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
25.01	This Clause shall apply to all employees excluding Night Watchmen and Janitors. Any employee working a daily shift starting between 12 noon and 12 midnightshall receive an extra$1.65 perhourfor the entire shift.
25.02	Any employee commencing a daily shift before 6:00 a.m. shall receive an extra $1.65 per hour for hours worked prior to 6:00 a.m.
25.03	Any time less than ten (10) minutes will not be computed, except where it is a daily or nearly daily occurrence, then all times shall be computed and totalled, and paid for in each pay period.
25.04	Any employee working Sunday shifts (any shift that includes Sunday as a regularly scheduled work day) shall be paid a premium of ten percent (10%) of his base hourly rate (in addition to any other shift premium that may be applicable for all hours worked on Sunday.
34
25.05	Clause 25 does not apply to Summer Help. CLAUSE 26
UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT
26.01	Reliefman- A relief Dairyworker is an employee who relieves on two or more job classifications during the work week.
26.02	Employment - Other Classifications - When an employee is required to fill the place of another employee receiving a higher rate of pay, if only for a day or the greater part of a day, he shall receive the higher rate, but if he is required to fill temporarily, the place of another employee, receiving a lower rate, his rate will not be changed to the lower rate.
This provision shall not apply when due to lack of work an employee may be reclassified.
26.03
(a)	Combination of Classifications (Seasonal or otherwise) - All employees shall be employed i n a manner conforming to the listed classifications. It is recognized that the nature of an operation or the season of the year may render it necessary to combine two or more classifications.
(b)	Any employee affected by the combining of his classification with any other classifications or with work performed under the classification of Dairyworker shall continue to be paid at the highest rate of the combined classifications.
CLAUSE 27 WORK CLOTHES
27.01	All inside employees shall be provided with (at no cost to them) clean uniforms, as well as gloves to those requiring time. Where coveralls or smocks are required,
35
these shall also be supplied at no cost to the employee. These clean clothes will be supplied no less than once a week and shall be Union made and Union serviced.
27.02	All permanentemployees shall be providedwith a protective footwear allowance of five dollars ($5.00) per yearpayable on October 1st of each year, providedhowever, any employee presently receiving morefavourableconsid-eration shall continue to do so.
27.03	The Company shall provide each driver with a clean uniformat least once perweek. These uniforms shall be Union made and Union serviced.
27.04	The Company shall provide suitable protective clothing to all employees required to work in the cold room, at no cost to the employee.
The Company shall provide a suitable warm coat to all Driver Salesmen working in or out of cold hold and/or dual temperature trucks.
27.05	All clothing and uniforms to be supplied and/or serviced by a company under contractto a Teamster Local Union, provided the rates are competitive.
CLAUSE 28 JURY DUTY
28.01	All working time lost by an employeedue to necessary attendance on jury duty or any court proceedings arising out of his employment shall be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee.
28.02	Any employee on jury duty shall, subject to this provision, make himself available for work before or after being required for such duty, wherever practicable. All jury duty pay or witness fees received by the employee from the courts shall be reimbursed to the Employer.
36
CLAUSE 29
PERIOD OF SUMMER SEASON
29.01	The summer season shall bedefined as the time of year between and including the 1st of April and the 15th cf September.
29.02	Employees employed specifically for the period defined i n Section 29.01, shall be classed as Summer Help and paid at the rate applicable, it being understood that any employee working at a classified occupation shall be paid the classified rate whilst so employed, subjectto the provisions of Clause 18.01.
CLAUSE 30 CREDIT ON ROUTES
30.01	Credit on the routes and the rules and regulations thereof are the sole responsibility of the Employer as the Employer is the sole person who can control and regulate the credit through their employees. The Employer shall keep posted in a conspicuous place the rules and regulations regarding credit. The Employer is solely responsible for bad debts providing that the regulations i n effect regarding the granting of credit have been observed by the employee and enfored by the Employer.
30.02	The Employer shall provide each Retail Driver Salesmanwith suitable credit application forms which, if the Employer so requires, shall be completed by any customer requiringcredit. Thecompleted form shall be returned to the Employer for his approval or rejection and such approval or rejection of credit shall be indicated by the Employer in an appropriate place in the driver's route book records and shall constitute either approval or rejection by the Employer of the customer's application for credit.
30.03	Ifthe stated policy of the Employer is not to grant or recognize credit to any retail customer, no Retail Driver Salesman employed by that Employershall be held respon-
37
sible for any monies owing by a customer to whom he has not granted credit nor shall there be any discrimination against any driver who refuses to grant credit to any retail customer in accordance with the stated policy of the Employer.
30.04	Any depositchargedto a customerformilk containers shall be entered in the route bookas a charge against that customer and shallform part of the outstanding for that route providing that the salesman enters all containers outstanding in the prescribedcolumn.
30.05	For each account in a retail route book, a master sheet shall be used to display all the pertinent information relating to the account save for any outstanding amounts which shallbe entered by the salesmanon a separate sheet for that account to the end that the salesmanwill only be required to change the separate sheet as it becomes filled.
CLAUSE 31
KEEPING PROPER RECORDS
31.01	Each salesman shall, subject to the control of the Employer, keep proper route books and make due andcor-rect entries therein of all transactions and dealings of and in reference to the business of the Employer insofar as the time comes under his jurisdiction and shall serve the Employer diligentlyandaccording to the best of his abilities in all respects.
CLAUSE32
PERFORMANCEOF DUTY
32.01	Each employee, while on duty, shall devote the whole of his time, attentionandenergies to the performance of his duties and, shall not, duringthe term of his employ-mentat any time, alone, in partnershipor in association, be connected with or concerned in any other business directly or indirectly connected with the milk business.
38
CLAUSE33
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, TIME OFF, AND SPLIT ROUTES
33.01	Time clocks and time cards must be used to provide an accurate and complete record of all time worked. Time cards and copies of pay cheque stubs to be made available to the Union upon request. No employee shall record or be asked to record times other than those which show the following:
(a)	Starting Time
No Retail DriverSalesman shall commence or be required to commence work before 6:00 a.m.
(b)	Finishing Time
Provided that an employee shall not be deemed to havecompletedhisday's work until hehascompleted all duties and additional deliveries if any required of him by the Company, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, until he has unloadedhis truck; refueled and checked his truck; balanced his daily load sheet or other records of goods supplied and sales made; completed any other necessary records; and attended at any meeting or interview called or requested by the Company.
33.02	No Driver Salesman shall perform work of any natureprior to recording his starting time nor after recording his finishing time.
33.03
(a)	All Driver Salesmen shall work the principle of a four (4) day work week with three (3) days off per week. At least two (2)of these days off shall be consecutive.
(b)	Ten (10) hours shall constitute a day's work and four (4) ten (10) hourdays shall constitute a week's work.
39
All work in excess of ten (10) hours per day shall be paid for at the overtime rate of double time.
(C) In the event that any of these Driver Salesmen completes his work in less than ten (10) hours in any one day, he shall be deemed to have worked ten (10) hours on that day.
(d) No employee shall be required to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week provided however:
1.	Hours worked on days off are not included.
2.	Shifts must be completed as required.
3.	Overtime resulting from start up of new equipment not included.
4.	Overtimedue to inclementweatheror mechanical breakdown not included.
5.	Overtimedue to delays or conditions not attributable to the normal
workload not included.
33.04	The overtime rates of pay shall be as follows:
Wage Per Hour
Oct.1/88 Oct.1/89 Oct. 1/90
Route Foreman (Retail) $36.15 $37.75 $38.75 Route Foreman (Wholesale) 39.06 40.66 41.96 Holiday Reliefman (Retail) 35.29 36.89 37.89 Holiday Reliefman (Wholesale) 38.32 39.92 41.22 Retail Driver Salesman	34.20	35.80	36.80
Combination Milk
and IceCream	37.18	38.78	40.08
Wholesale Driver Salesman 36.78 38.38 39.68
33.05	Should a dispute arise in respect to the time taken to complete a route or routes, no Driver Salesman, Reliefman, Holiday Reliefman, or Route Foreman shall be
40
subject to any change in status until the Union has investigated the route or routes involved by sending an Agent of the Union along with the employee involved in the dispute, or an appointee of the Company.
33.06	All sums earned by way of overtime shall be paid for in the pay period following that in which they were earned.
33.07	No driver shall be asked or required to service or maintaintrucksorequipment. Thisdoes notincludedriving his vehicle to the proper parking area.
33.08	Each Driver Salesman shall be entitled to a ten (10) minute break in the forenoon and afternoon.
33.09	All retail and retail combination routes shall be loaded or prestacked in an approved manner. Apre-timed departure schedule shall be posted so that each route may reach the delivery area not laterthan 7:00 A.M.
33.10	New, inexperienced Driver Salesmen shall be excluded from the overtime provisions of this Clause for a period of five (5) calendar weeks from date of assignment to the learning of a route, provided such overtime is not occasioned by:
(a)	Mechanical breakdown
(b)	Delays or conditions, or overtime, not attributable to said Driver Salesman.
33.11	Salesmen who transfer from retail to wholesale or from wholesale to retail or new, experienced Driver Salesmen (Clause 18.02), shall be excluded from the overtime provisions of this Clause for a period of three (3) calendar weeks from the date of assignment to the learning of a route, provided such overtime is not occasioned by:
(a)	Mechanical breakdown
(b)	Delays or conditions, or overtime, not attributable to said Driver Salesman.
41
Provisions of this Clause shall be waived if the employee is directedto the new departmentas a result of a reduction in the work force.
33.12	SPLIT ROUTES
When a Salesman's route is split, the affected Salesman, Holiday Reliefmanand RouteForemanshall receiveat least the same wages for a period of three (3) months as the average of the earnings of the route for the twelve (12) calendar months previous to the load being split.
This shall not apply to men who have been in the employ of the Company less than twelve (12) months.
CLAUSE34
DELIVERIES BY SPECIALS
34.01	Any sales or deliveries made to any customer in any area must be recordedon the workingday following the sale or delivery as sales on the route covering this area.
CLAUSE 35 WAGES
35.01	The Employer shall pay wages to every employee covered by this Agreement at the rates setforth inSched-ules"A, “B”, “C”, “D" and "E"hereunto annexed in respect of the various classifications cf work therein contained.
35.02	Schedules “A”, "B”, “C", “D” and “E” shall be deemed to be contained in and form a part of this Agreement.
42
CLAUSE 36 UNITVALUES
36.01 For all fluid sales on retail routes:
1 - 4 Litre Milk	4 Units
1	- Litre Milk (any kind)	1 Unit
2	- 500 ml. Milk (any kind)	1	Unit
4 - 200 ml. Milk (any kind)	1	Unit
1 - 20 Litre Milk (any kind)	20	Units
1 - Litre Creamo	3	Units
1 - 500 ml. Creamo	1 1/2 Units
2 - 250 ml. Creamo	1 1/2 Units
1 - 20 Litre Creamo	60 Units
100 Tetra Pak Creamers 4 1/2 Units
Fountain Whip
3 Units
1 - Litre Whipping Cream	6 Units
1 - 500 ml. Whipping Cream	3	Units
1 - 250 ml. Whipping Cream	1 1/2	Units
1 - 20 Litre Whipping Crea	120	Units
1 - 500 ml. Sour Cream	2	Units
1 - 250 ml. Sour Cream	1	Unit
1 - 2 Litre Sour Cream	8 Units
Yogurt sleeve 4 oz. yogurt 1 - 250 gr. Yogurt 1 - 500 gr. Yogurt 1 - Kg. Yogurt
1 Unit 1/2 Unit
1	Unit
2	Units 4 Units
Orange Juice Orange Drink Apple Juice Lemonade 200 ml. Fruit Drink
1 Unit 1 Unit 1 Unit 1 Unit 1/4 Unit
43
1 lb. Margarine 1 lb. Butter
1 - 250 gr. Cottage Cheese 1 - 500 gr. Cottage Cheese 1 Kg. Cottage Cheese 13 Oz. Cheddar Cheese Cream Cheese 1 Doz. eggs 1 - Litre Eggnog
1 1/2 Units
1 Unit 1 Unit 1/2 Unit
1	Unit
2	Units
1 Unit
1	Unit
2	Units
CLAUSE 37
EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT
37.01	This Agreementshall be in effectfrom October 1, 1988 to.Mawth-31'i 1091 and from year to year thereafter unless noticeof abrogationor amendmentshall be given by either Party to the other Party inwriting, four (4) months prior to the anniversary date hereof, in any year.
37.02	This Agreement voids all previous Agreements or Letters of Understandingwhich in any way alters the terms and conditions contained herein.
38.01	The within Agreement and schedules hereto annexed shall be subject to, and shall be interpreted, and, where necessary, altered, varied, or amended from time to time to give effect to the laws enacted by the Parliamentof Canadaand Provinceof BritishColumbia, includingamend-ments theretoand regulationsor orders-in-councilmade or passed thereunder.
38.02	In the event that any Clause or Section is held invalidor enforcementof or compliancewithwhich has been restrained, as above setforth, the Partiesaffected thereby shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotia-
CLAUSE38 SAVINGS CLAUSE
44
tions, upon the request of either Party for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such Clause or Section during the period of invalidity or restraint. If the Parties do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement,they shall submitthe disputetothe procedure as outlined in Clause 8.
38.03	It is clearly understood however, that the Agreement or any sections thereof, which are not held invalid or restrained, shall continue in effect for the balance of the period of the Collective Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Party of the First Part has hereunto affixed its seal in the presence of its Officers duly authorized therefor, and the Party of the Second Part has hereunto affixed its signature by its Officers duly authorized therefor.
DATED ATVictoria, British Columbia, this day of , 1989.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
45
SCHEDULE"A
The following wages shall be paid:
WAGES PER HOUR
PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT, ETC.
Oct. 1/88 Oct. 1/89 Oct. 1/90
Classification
A.	Assistant Foreman Head Checker
B.	Pasteurizer Class 1 Ice Cream Maker Cottage Cheese Maker Ice Cream Mix Maker
C.	Pasteurizer Class II
$19.53	$20.33	$20.98
18.39	19.19	19.84
18.56	19.36	20.01
18.56	19.36	20.01
18.56	19.36	20.01
18.56	19.36	20.01
18.23	19.03	19.68
D.	Pure Pak Operator 18.07 C.I.P. Operator	18.07
Checker and/or Loader 18.07 Cottage Cheese and/or Yogurt Machine Operator 18.07 Freezer Operator	18.07
Bulk Pack Operator 18.07 Creamer Operator	18.07
Bottle Machine Operator 18.07
18.87
18.87
18.87
18.87
18.87
18.87
18.87
18.87
19.52
19.52
19.52
19.52
19.52
19.52
19.52
19.52
E. Dairy Worker Packager Janitor
17.88	18.68	19.33
17.10	17.90	18.52
17.34	18.14	18.79
46
F.	Summer Help Checker/Loader Dairy Worker Packager
G.	Holiday Relief Classifications A, B, & C
All other Classifications
April/90
11.00	10.00	10.00
10.50	10.00	10.00
10.00	10.00	10.00
19.16	19.96	20.61
18.67	19.47	20.12
Any classified vacancies shall be posted to allow plant employees first opportunity prior to using Summer Help. The Employer reserves the right (per Clause 10) to assign regular employees to such'jobs.
Any employee required to be a First Aid Attendant shall be paid a weekly premium for the necessaryfirst aid certificate as follows:
"A" Certificate - .70c per hour “B” Certificate - .600 per hour “C” Certificate - .500 per hour
Premiums:
Freezerman (Any employee working fifty percent (50%) or more of his daily shift in the sharp freeze room) - 400 per hour premium.
A premium of 200 perhourabove classified rates provided herein shall be paid to all employees regularly operating a ride on forklift or tow motor fifty percent (50%) or more of their regular shift.
47
SCHEDULE“B"
WAGES PER HOUR
Classification	Oct 1/88 Oct 1/89 Oct 1/90
Wholesale Driver Salesman
(Ice Cream or Fluid)	$18.39
Wholesale Driver Salesman
Combination Route
(Milkand ice Cream)	18.59
Holiday Reliefman	19.16
Route Foreman	19.53
$19.19	$19.84
19.39	20.04
19.96	20.61
20.33	20.98
Country- Overnight- Ice Cream ($1.15 perweek extra for Ice Cream Driver Salesmen, Holiday Reliefmen, Route Foremen in addition while employed on country-overnight routes).
48
SCHEDULED”
RETAIL DRIVER SALESMEN, HOLIDAY RELIEFMEN, ROUTE FOREMEN
WAGES PER WEEK
Classification Oct. 1/88 Oct 1/89 Oct.1/90
Retail Driver Salesmen
Guarantee	$684.04	$716.04	$736.04
Base Wage	581.09	613.09	633.09
Plus:
Retail units up to 11,219 per period (four weeks)
3.14p per unit
Retail units 11,220 to 15,707 per period 4.41® per unit Retail units 15,708 and up per period 6.320 per unit Wholesale Unitson Retail Routes 2.150 per unit
Holiday Reliefmen Oct. 1/88 Oct. 1/89 Oct. 1/90 Guarantee	$705.88	$737.88	$757.88
Or the average of all routes they relieve plus - $16.26 whichever is the greater.
Route Foreman
Guarantee	$723.04	$755.04	$775.04
Or the average cf all routes they relieve and/or supervise plus - $32.65 whichever is the greater.
All Apartment House Routes-an additional -$8.13 on base wage.
I n any district, a route with 50% or more of its customers in apartments shall be classed as an Apartment Route.
49
SCHEDULE“D”
DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER SALESMEN)
WAGES PER HOUR Oct. 1/88 Oct. 1/89 Oct. 1/90
Classification
Holiday Reliefman $19.16 Semi-Trailer Driver	18.57
Tanker Driver	18.51
Hauling Truck Driver	18.03
Special Delivery Driver 18.03
$19.96	$20.61
19.37	20.02
19.31	19.96
18.83	19.48
18.83	19.48
A premium of 150 per hour shall be paid Holiday Reliefmen or Foremen while driving a semi-trailer.
When a pup trailer is addedto the unit, the driverwill be paid 5p per hour extra per pup axle over the semi-trailer rate while pulling the pup.
Maintenance Staff
Maintenance Man Engineer Class IV Mechanic (Truck) Trade Helper
$19.91
19.91
19.91 18.22
$20.71
20.71
20.71 19.02
$21.36
21.36
21.36 19.67
50
SCHEDULE"E"
OFFICE STAFF
CATEGORIES, CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
WAGE PER HOUR
Oct. 1,1988 Oct. 1, 1989 Oct 1,1990
CATEGORY1
General Clerk $14.32	$15.07	$15.47
CATEGORY2
Receptionist-Typist,
Intermediate Clerk, 14,58	15.33	15.73
Order Clerk
CATEGORY3
Comptometer Operator,
Computer Operatorl 4.97	15.72	16.12
CATEGORY4
Cashiers	15.15	15.90	16.30
CATEGORY5
Payroll,
Vouchers Payable, 15.90	16.65	17.05
Senior Clerk
It isagreed that persons employed as ManagementTrainee or a Private Secretary will not be required to become a member of the Union while employed and working in that capacity.
It i s furtheragreed: That all the provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all office staff falling within the jurisdiction of the Union as outlined in Schedule "E"save where amended below.
51
SCHEDULE “ E-CONTINUED
CATEGORIES, CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
Nothing in any of the provisions of this Schedule, or in the amendments listed below, shall in any way limit, void or affect the other provisions of this Agreement.
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
The standardworkweekshall be35 hours. Eachemployee may choose to workeitherfive 7 hourdaysorfour8 3/4 hour days. An employee may request permission to change his or her choice and such permission shall notbe unreasonably withheld. The basis for refusal shall be that the change would unduly affect the efficient operation of the business.
All hoursworked in excess of 7 in the case of a five day week, or E 3/4 in the case of a four day week shall be paid at the rate of double time.
All employees shall receive two (2) consecutive days off eachweek. Eachweek shall meana calendarweekdefined as Sunday through Saturday.
A schedule of time off shall be posted so that employees shall haveat least seven (7)days advance noticeof days off except where the unforseen absence of another employee requires a shifting of office personnel. Any employee required to work on any of his or her days off shall be paid at double time for all hours worked.
Effective September 6, 1989, all newoffice employeeswill work a five day week, at the discretion of the Employer.
52
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN: Island Farms Dairies Co-operative Association
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	Teamsters Local Union No. 464
OF THE SECOND PART
It is agreed and understood that the Employer will provide tool insurance for their maintenance staff at no cost to the Employee, covering loss due to fire or theft (as per insurance regulations)to a maximum of $2,000.00.
It is further agreed that the Employer will reimburse these employees for any losses resulting from tool breakage occurring on the job.
A Tool DepreciationAllowance of 10% of the value of tools to a maximum of $200.00 per man per year shall also be provided.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
53
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN: Island Farms Dairies Co-operative Association
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	Teamsters Local Union No. 464
OF THE SECOND PART
It is agreed to and understood that for one employee, the charge to the Union for time servedat the bargaining table negotiatingwith managementfor the renewal of the collective Agreement will be at the base rate and will not include fringe benefits.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
Island Farms Dairies Co-operative Association OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
Teamsters Local Union No. 464 OF THE SECOND PART
It is agreed and understood that part-time employees who do not work more than fifty percent (50%) of the standard work week for their job classification, as determined in arrears for each calendar quarter of the year, shall reimburse the Employer for welfare benefits provided, unless they have opted for no coverage. Advance payroll deductions will be made for 2/3 of the monthly premiums for the benefits chosen by the employee.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
55
APPENDIX "A"
TEAMSTERS LOCAL464 DAIRY INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN
VANCOUVER ISLAND DIVISION FOR
ALL OF ITS MEMBERS EMPLOYED AT ISLAND FARMS DAIRIES CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
I. BASIC PLAN PROVISIONS
This plan shall operate pursuant to the Collective Agreement on the following basis:-
(a)	The Plan will be operated by a Board of Trustees which will consist of six (6) persons, three (3)to be named by the Unionand three (3)to be named by the Employer. Such Trusteesand their successorsshall be responsible fortheadministrationandoperationof the Plan and Fund and shall have all powers necessary to create, amend or terminatethe Plan and Fund consistentwiththe terms of the CollectiveAgreement in effect from time to time. Each Trustee shall have one vote.
(b)	The Trustees shall select a Chairman and a Secret a -These personsshall not have a casting vote on any matters under consideration by the Trustees.
(c)	The Trustees shall meetand shall decide on the type and form of the Pension Plan and may employ legal counsel, actuaries and other consultants or advisors as they deem necessary or advisable.
56
(d)	The Trustees shall have the exclusive right to determine the provisions of the Plan and the benefits provided thereunder from time to time and the use of all contributions plus investment earnings thereon received by the Plan. These shall be used only for the benefit of employees on whose behalf contributions are or have been made to the Plan and to meet necessary Plan expenses.
(e)	The Employer and the Union shall enter into a Trust Agreement with the Trustees. The Trust Agreement shall provide that in the event that the Trustees are deadlocked on any issue concerning the Plan or Fund the matter shall be submitted for arbitration by a mutually agreeable party orfailing mutual agreement on an Arbitrator by a Judge appointed by the Supreme Court of British Columbia.
(f)	The Employershallfrom time to time provideall information which is required for the administration of the Plan and shall assist and co-operate in the Plan's administration. Reasonableassistance rendered by the Employer shall be rendered without charge to the Trustees.
(g)	The Trustees shall establish a Trust Account into which contributions shall be paid pending execution oftheTrustAgreementand establishmentofthe Plan.
(h)	The Plan shall not requirethe Employerto guarantee the benefits or assure the solvency of the Fund and further that all costs of establishing the Plan and all costs of operation and administration (except as provided in (f) above) shall be paid from the assets of the Pian.
(i)	The Trustees may effect arrangements with the Employerand otherTrustees of pension plansto permit reciprocal inter-plan transfers.
57
0 The Trust Agreement shall permit the Trustees, in certain events and uponcertain conditionsto transfer the assets and liabilities to another Boardof Trustees provided such transfer shall not adversely affect the benefits or rights of the members of the Plan.
(k) The Employershall be requiredto make paymentsto the Pension Trust Fund as herein set forth. Such contributions shall be, for each employeeworkng ina job classification covered by the Collective Agreement.
(a) six and onequarter percent (6.25%) of his gross earnings from April 1, 1989 up to March 31, 1990, and
0) six and one-half percent (6.5%) of his gross earningsfrom April 1, 1990.
It is understood that contributions shall be payableinrespecttothe earnings of employees from the first day of employment whether said employees are permanent, temporary, or seasonal or full-time or part-time employees and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union.
The gross earnings of an employee shall bethe sum of his regular earnings, overtime, shiftdit ferential, premiums and any other earnings payableto the employee i n accordancewith the terms of the CollectiveAgreement.
Contirbutions alongwith a list of employees for whom they have been made and the amount of contribution in respect to each employee and his regular earnings shall be forwarded by the Employerto the Custodian of the assets of the Plan designatedby the Trustees. A copy of the list of employees shall also be mailed to the Administrator of the Plan.
58
Such payment shall be made to the custodian for each pay period not later than twenty-one (21) days after the end of each pay period. The Employer shall also submit to the Plan Admin-istratorwithin ninety (90) days following the end of each plan year a listing of all employeeswho were coveredby the Plan during such plan year showing, for each, the regular earnings upon which the Employer's contributionswere based during the plan year. Copies of all the listings shall also be forwarded if requiredto the Union. These listings shall also contain such other information as the Plan Administrator and actuary may require for the operation of the Pian.
(1) It is intended that the Plan and Trust Fund shall be such that the Plan can be registered under the provisions of the IncomeTax Act of Canada and any other applicable Federal or Provincial law respecting employee pension plans.
59
Keep your Beneficiary Card up to date-.,. Notify the Union office at once of any change.
Notify the Union office a^once of any change of address.
If you leavethe industry you must get a withdraw Card immediately.
A good Union member is an informed Union member.
ATTEND YOUR UNION MEETINGS!
lie UNION.,..Buy UNION